KING MIDAS

A ROMANCE

By UPTON SINCLAIR

  I dreamed that Soul might dare the pain,
    Unlike the prince of old,
  And wrest from heaven the fiery touch
    That turns all things to gold.

New York and London

1901

NOTE

In the course of this story, the author has had occasion to refer to Beethoven's Sonata Appassionata
as containing a suggestion of the opening theme of the Fifth Symphony. He has often seen this
stated, and believed that the statement was generally accepted as true. Since writing, however,
he has heard the opinion expressed, by a musician who is qualified to speak as an authority,
that the two themes have nothing to do with each other. The author himself is not competent
to have an opinion on the subject, but because the statement as first made is closely bound
up with the story, he has allowed it to stand unaltered.

The two extracts from MacDowell's "Woodland Sketches," on pages 214 and 291, are reprinted
with the kind permission of Professor MacDowell and of Arthur P. Schmidt, publisher.

PART I

In the merry month of May.

KING MIDAS

CHAPTER I

  "O Madchen, Madchen,
  Wie lieb' ich dich!"

It was that time of year when all the world belongs to poets, for their harvest of joy; when
those who seek the country not for beauty, but for coolness, have as yet thought nothing about
it, and when those who dwell in it all the time are too busy planting for another harvest to
have any thought of poets; so that the latter, and the few others who keep something in their
hearts to chime with the great spring-music, have the woods and waters all for their own for
two joyful months, from the time that the first snowy bloodroot has blossomed, until the wild
rose has faded and nature has no more to say. In those two months there are two weeks, the
ones that usher in the May, that bear the prize of all the year for glory; the commonest trees
wear green and silver then that would outshine a coronation robe, and if a man has any of that
prodigality of spirit which makes imagination, he may hear the song of all the world.

It was on such a May morning in the midst of a great forest of pine trees, one of those forests
whose floors are moss-covered ruins that give to them the solemnity of age and demand humility
from those who walk within their silences. There was not much there to tell of the springtime,
for the pines are unsympathetic, but it seemed as if all the more wealth had been flung about
on the carpeting beneath. Where the moss was not were flowing beds of fern, and the ground
was dotted with slender harebells and the dusty, half-blossomed corydalis, while from all the
rocks the bright red lanterns of the columbine were dangling.

Of the beauty so wonderfully squandered there was but one witness, a young man who was walking
slowly along, stepping as it seemed where there were no flowers; and who, whenever he stopped
to gaze at a group of them, left them unmolested in their happiness. He was tall and slenderly
built, with a pale face shadowed by dark hair; he was clad in black, and carried in one hand
a half-open book, which, however, he seemed to have forgotten.

A short distance ahead was a path, scarcely marked except where the half-rotted trees were
trodden through. Down this the young man turned, and a while later, as his ear was caught by
the sound of falling water, he quickened his steps a trifle, until he came to a little streamlet
which flowed through the forest, taking for its bed the fairest spot in that wonderland of
beauty. It fled from rock to rock covered with the brightest of bright green moss and with
tender fern that was but half uncurled, and it flashed in the sunlit places and tinkled from
the deep black shadows, ever racing faster as if to see what more the forest had to show. The
young man's look had been anxious before, but he brightened in spite of himself in the company
of the streamlet.

Not far beyond was a place where a tiny rill flowed down from the high rocks above, and where
the path broadened out considerably. It was a darkly shadowed spot, and the little rill was
gathered in a sunken barrel, which the genius of the place had made haste to cover with the
green uniform worn by all else that was to be seen. Beside the spring thus formed the young
man seated himself, and after glancing impatiently at his watch, turned his gaze upon the beauty
that was about him. Upon the neighboring rocks the columbine and harebell held high revel,
but he did not notice them so much as a new sight that flashed upon his eye; for the pool where
the two streamlets joined was like a nest which the marsh-marigold had taken for its home.
The water was covered with its bright green and yellow, and the young man gazed at the blossoms
with eager delight, until finally he knelt and plucked a few of them, which he laid, cool and
gleaming, upon the seat by the spring.

The flowers did not hold his attention very long, however; he rose up and turned away towards
where, a few steps beyond, the open country could be seen between the tree trunks. Beyond the
edge of the woods was a field, through which the footpath and the streamlet both ran, the former
to join a road leading to a little town which lay in the distance. The landscape was beautiful
in its morning freshness, but it was not that which the young man thought of; he had given
but one glance before he started back with a slight exclamation, his face turning paler. He
stepped into the concealment of the thick bushes at one side, where he stood gazing out, motionless
except for a slight trembling. Down the road he had seen a white-clad figure just coming out
of the village; it was too far away to be recognized, but it was a young girl, walking with
a quick and springing step, and he seemed to know who it was.

She had not gone very far before she came to a thick hedge which lined the roadside and hid
her from the other's view; he could not see her again until she came to the place where the
streamlet was crossed by a bridge, and where the little path turned off towards the forest.
In the meantime he stood waiting anxiously; for when she reached there he would see her plainly
for the first time, and also know if she were coming to the spring. She must have stopped to
look at something, for the other had almost started from his hiding place in his eagerness
when finally she swept past the bushes. She turned down the path straight towards him, and
he clasped his hands together in delight as he gazed at her.

And truly she was a very vision of the springtime, as she passed down the meadows that were
gleaming with their first sprinkling of buttercups. She was clad in a dress of snowy white,
which the wind swept before her as she walked; and it had stolen one strand of her golden hair
to toss about and play with. She came with all the eagerness and spring of the brooklet that
danced beside her, her cheeks glowing with health and filled with the laughter of the morning.
Surely, of all the flowers of the May-time there is none so fair as the maiden. And the young
man thought as he stood watching her that in all the world there was no maiden so fair as this.

She did not see him, for her eyes were lifted to a little bobolink that had come flying down
the wind. One does not hear the bobolink at his best unless one goes to hear him; for sheer
glorified happiness there is in all our land no bird like him at the hour of sunrise, when
he is drunk with the morning breeze and the sight of the dew-filled roses. At present a shower
had just passed and the bobolink may have thought that another dawn had come; or perhaps he
saw the maiden. At any rate, he perched himself upon the topmost leaf of the maple tree, still
half-flying, as if scorning even that much support; and there he sang his song. First he gave
his long prelude that one does not often hear--a few notes a score of times repeated, and growing
swift and loud, and more and more strenuous and insistent; as sometimes the orchestra builds
up its climax, so that the listener holds his breath and waits for something, he knows not
what. Then he paused a moment and turned his head to see if the girl were watching, and filled
his throat and poured out his wonderful gushing music, with its watery and bell-like tone that
only the streamlet can echo, from its secret places underneath the banks. Again and again he
gave it forth, the white patches on his wings flashing in the sunlight and both himself and
his song one thrill of joy.

The girl's face was lit up with delight as she tripped down the meadow path. A gust of wind
came up behind her, and bowed the grass and the flowers before her and swung the bird upon
the tree; and so light was the girl's step that it seemed to lift her and sweep her onward.
As it grew stronger she stretched out her arms to it and half leaned upon it and flung her
head back for the very fullness of her happiness. The wind tossed her skirts about her, and
stole another tress of hair, and swung the lily which she had plucked and which she carried
in her hand. It is only when one has heard much music that he understands the morning wind,
and knows that it is a living thing about which he can say such things as that; one needs only
to train his ear and he can hear its footsteps upon the meadows, and hear it calling to him
from the tops of the trees.

The girl was the very spirit of the wind at that moment, and she seemed to feel that some music
was needed. She glanced up again at the bobolink, who had ceased his song; she nodded to him
once as if for a challenge, and then, still leaning back upon the breeze, and keeping time
with the flower in her hand, she broke out into a happy song:

  "I heard a streamlet gushing
    From out its rocky bed,
  Far down the valley rushing,
    So fresh and clear it sped."

But then, as if even Schubert were not equal to the fullness of her heart, or because the language
of joy has no words, she left the song unfinished and swept on in a wild carol that rose and
swelled and made the forest echo. The bobolink listened and then flew on to listen again, while
still the girl poured out her breathless music, a mad volley of soaring melody; it seemed fairly
to lift her from her feet, and she was half dancing as she went. There came another gust of
wind and took her in its arms; and the streamlet fled before her; and thus the three, in one
wild burst of happiness, swept into the woodland together.

There in its shadows the girl stopped short, her song cut in half by the sight of the old forest
in its majesty. One could not have imagined a greater contrast than the darkness and silence
which dwelt beneath the vast canopy, and she gazed about her in rapture, first at the trees
and then at the royal carpet of green, starred with its fields of flowers. Her breast heaved,
and she stretched out her arms as if she would have clasped it all to her.

"Oh, it is so beautiful!" she cried aloud. "It is so beautiful!"

In the meantime the young man, still unseen, had been standing in the shadow of the bushes,
drinking in the sight. The landscape and the figure and the song had all faded from his thoughts,
or rather blended themselves as a halo about one thing, the face of this girl. For it was one
of those faces that a man may see once in a lifetime and keep as a haunting memory ever afterwards,
as a vision of the sweetness and glory of woman; at this moment it was a face transfigured
with rapture, and the man who was gazing upon it was trembling, and scarcely aware of where he was.

For fully a minute more the girl stood motionless, gazing about at the forest; then she chanced
to look towards the spring, where she saw the flowers upon the seat.

"Why, someone has left a nosegay!" she exclaimed, as she started forward; but that seemed to
suggest another thought to her, and she looked around. As she did so she caught sight of the
young man and sprang towards him. "Why, Arthur! You here!" she cried.

The other started forward as if he would have clasped her in his arms; but then recollecting
himself he came forward very slowly, half lowering his eyes before the girl's beauty.

"So you recollect me, Helen, do you?" he said, in a low voice.

"Recollect you?" was the answer. "Why, you dear, foolish boy, of course I recollect you. But
how in the world do you come to be here?"

"I came here to see you, Helen."

"To see me?" exclaimed she. "But pray how--" and then she stopped, and a look of delight swept
across her face. "You mean that you knew I would come here the first thing?"

"I do indeed."

"Why, that was beautiful!" she exclaimed. "I am so glad I did come."

The glance which she gave made his heart leap up; for a moment or two they were silent, looking
at each other, and then suddenly another thought struck the girl. "Arthur," she cried, "I forgot!
Do you mean to tell me that you have come all the way from Hilltown?"

"Yes, Helen."

"And just to see me?"

"Yes, Helen."

"And this morning?"

She received the same answer again. "It is twelve miles," she exclaimed; "who ever heard of
such a thing? You must be tired to death."

She put out her hand, which he took tremblingly.

"Let us go sit down on the bench," she said, "and then we can talk about things. I am perfectly
delighted that you came," she added when she had seated herself, with the marigolds and the
lily in her lap. "It will seem just like old times; just think how long ago it was that I saw
you last, Arthur,--three whole years! And do you know, as I left the town I thought of you,
and that I might find you here."

The young man's face flushed with pleasure.

"But I'd forgotten you since!" went on the girl, eyeing him mischievously; "for oh, I was so
happy, coming down the old, old path, and seeing all the old sights! Things haven't changed
a bit, Arthur; the woods look exactly the same, and the bridge hasn't altered a mite since
the days we used to sit on the edge and let our feet hang in. Do you remember that, Arthur?"

"Perfectly," was the answer.

"And that was over a dozen years ago! How old are you now, Arthur,--twenty-one--no, twenty-two;
and I am just nineteen. To-day is my birthday, you know!"

"I had not forgotten it, Helen."

"You came to welcome me! And so did everything else. Do you know, I don't think I'd ever been
so happy in my life as I was just now. For I thought the old trees greeted me, and the bridge,
and the stream! And I'm sure that was the same bobolink! They don't have any bobolinks in Germany,
and so that one was the first I have heard in three years. You heard him, didn't you, Arthur?"

"I did--at first," said Arthur.

"And then you heard me, you wicked boy! You heard me come in here singing and talking to myself
like a mad creature! I don't think I ever felt so like singing before; they make hard work
out of singing and everything else in Germany, you know, so I never sang out of business hours;
but I believe I could sing all day now, because I'm so happy."

"Go on," said the other, seriously; "I could listen."

"No; I want to talk to you just now," said Helen. "You should have kept yourself hidden and
then you'd have heard all sorts of wonderful things that you'll never have another chance to
hear. For I was just going to make a speech to the forest, and I think I should have kissed
each one of the flowers. You might have put it all into a poem,--for oh, father tells me you're
going to be a great poet!"

"I'm going to try," said Arthur, blushing.

"Just think how romantic that would be!" the girl laughed; "and I could write your memoir and
tell all I knew about you. Tell me about yourself, Arthur--I don't mean for the memoir, but
because I want to know the news."

"There isn't any, Helen, except that I finished college last spring, as I wrote you, and I'm
teaching school at Hilltown."

"And you like it?"

"I hate it; but I have to keep alive, to try to be a poet. And that is the news about myself."

"Except," added Helen, "that you walked twelve miles this glorious Saturday morning to welcome
me home, which was beautiful. And of course you'll stay over Sunday, now you're here; I can
invite you myself, you know, for I've come home to take the reins of government. You never
saw such a sight in your life as my poor father has made of our house; he's got the parlor
all full of those horrible theological works of his, just as if God had never made anything
beautiful! And since I've been away that dreadful Mrs. Dale has gotten complete charge of the
church, and she's one of those creatures that wouldn't allow you to burn a candle in the organ
loft; and father never was of any use for quarreling about things." (Helen's father, the Reverend
Austin Davis, was the rector of the little Episcopal church in the town of Oakdale just across
the fields.) "I only arrived last night," the girl prattled on, venting her happiness in that
way instead of singing; "but I hunted up two tallow candles in the attic, and you shall see
them in church to-morrow. If there's any complaint about the smell, I'll tell Mrs. Dale we
ought to have incense, and she'll get so excited about that that I'll carry the candles by
default. I'm going to institute other reforms also,--I'm going to make the choir sing in tune!"

"If you will only sing as you were singing just now, nobody will hear the rest of the choir,"
vowed the young man, who during her remarks had never taken his eyes off the girl's radiant face.

Helen seemed not to notice it, for she had been arranging the marigolds; now she was drying
them with her handkerchief before fastening them upon her dress.

"You ought to learn to sing yourself," she said while she bent her head down at that task.
"Do you care for music any more than you used to?"

"I think I shall care for it just as I did then," was the answer, "whenever you sing it."

"Pooh!" said Helen, looking up from her marigolds; "the idea of a dumb poet anyway, a man who
cannot sing his own songs! Don't you know that if you could sing and make yourself gloriously
happy as I was just now, and as I mean to be some more, you could write poetry whenever you wish."

"I can believe that," said Arthur.

"Then why haven't you ever learned? Our English poets have all been ridiculous creatures about
music, any how; I don't believe there was one in this century, except Browning, that really
knew anything about it, and all their groaning and pining for inspiration was nothing in the
world but a need of some music; I was reading the 'Palace of Art' only the other day, and there
was that 'lordly pleasure house' with all its modern improvements, and without a sound of music.
Of course the poor soul had to go back to the suffering world, if it were only to hear a hand-organ
again."

"That is certainly a novel theory," admitted the young poet. "I shall come to you when I need
inspiration."

"Come and bring me your songs," added the girl, "and I will sing them to you. You can write
me a poem about that brook, for one thing. I was thinking just as I came down the road that
if I were a poet I should have beautiful things to say to that brook. Will you do it for me?"

"I have already tried to write one," said the young man, hesitatingly.

"A song?" asked Helen.

"Yes."

"Oh, good! And I shall make some music for it; will you tell it to me?"

"When?"

"Now, if you can remember it," said Helen. "Can you?"

"If you wish it," said Arthur, simply; "I wrote it two or three months ago, when the country
was different from now."

He fumbled in his pocket for some papers, and then in a low tone he read these words to the girl:

AT MIDNIGHT

  The burden of the winter
    The year haa borne too long,
  And oh, my heart is weary
    For a springtime song!

  The moonbeams shrink unwelcomed
    From the frozen lake;
  Of all the forest voices
    There is but one awake

  I seek thee, happy streamlet
    That murmurest on thy way,
  As a child in troubled slumber
    Still dreaming of its play;

  I ask thee where in thy journey
    Thou seeest so fair a sight,
  That thou hast joy and singing
    All through the winter night.

Helen was silent for a few moments, then she said, "I think that is beautiful, Arthur; but
it is not what I want."

"Why not?" he asked.

"I should have liked it when you wrote it, but now the spring has come, and we must be happy.
You have heard the springtime song."

"Yes," said Arthur, "and the streamlet has led me to the beautiful sight."

"It is beautiful," said Helen, gazing about her with that naive unconsciousness which "every
wise man's son doth know" is one thing he may never trust in a woman. "It could not be more
beautiful," she added, "and you must write me something about it, instead of wandering around
our pasture-pond on winter nights till your imagination turns it into a frozen lake."

The young poet put away his papers rather suddenly at that, and Helen, after gazing at him
for a moment, and laughing to herself, sprang up from the seat.

"Come!" she cried, "why are we sitting here, anyway, talking about all sorts of things, and
forgetting the springtime altogether? I haven't been half as happy yet as I mean to be."

She seemed to have forgotten her friend's twelve mile walk; but he had forgotten it too, just
as he soon forgot the rather wintry reception of his little song. It was not possible for him
to remain dull very long in the presence of the girl's glowing energy; for once upon her feet,
Helen's dancing mood seemed to come back to her, if indeed it had ever more than half left
her. The brooklet struck up the measure again, and the wind shook the trees far above them,
to tell that it was still awake, and the girl was the very spirit of the springtime once more.

"Oh, Arthur," she said as she led him down the path, "just think how happy I ought to be, to
welcome all the old things after so long, and to find them all so beautiful; it is just as
if the country had put on its finest dress to give me greeting, and I feel as if I were not
half gay enough in return. Just think what this springtime is, how all over the country everything
is growing and rejoicing; that is what I want you to put into the poem for me."

And so she led him on into the forest, carried on by joy herself, and taking all things into
her song. She did not notice that the young man's forehead was flushed, or that his hand was
burning when she took it in hers as they walked; if she noticed it, she chose at any rate to
pretend not to. She sang to him about the forest and the flowers, and some more of the merry
song which she had sung before; then she stopped to shake her head at a saucy adder's tongue
that thrust its yellow face up through the dead leaves at her feet, and to ask that wisest-looking
of all flowers what secrets it knew about the spring-time. Later on they came to a place where
the brook fled faster, sparkling brightly in the sunlight over its shallow bed of pebbles;
it was only her runaway caroling that could keep pace with that, and so her glee mounted higher,
the young man at her side half in a trance, watching her laughing face and drinking in the
sound of her voice.

How long that might have lasted there is no telling, had it not been that the woods came to
an end, disclosing more open fields and a village beyond. "We'd better not go any farther,"
said Helen, laughing; "if any of the earth creatures should hear us carrying on they would
not know it was 'Trunkenheit ohne Wein.'"

She stretched out her hand to her companion, and led him to a seat upon a fallen log nearby.
"Poor boy," she said, "I forgot that you were supposed to be tired."

"It does not make any difference," was the reply; "I hadn't thought of it."

"There's no need to walk farther," said Helen, "for I've seen all that I wish to see. How dear
this walk ought to be to us, Arthur!"

"I do not know about you, Helen," said the young man, "but it has been dear to me indeed. I
could not tell you how many times I have walked over it, all alone, since you left; and I used
to think about the many times I had walked it with you. You haven't forgotten, Helen, have you?"

"No," said Helen.

"Not one?"

"Not one."

The young man was resting his head upon his hand and gazing steadily at the girl.

"Do you remember, Helen--?" He stopped; and she turned with her bright clear eyes and gazed
into his.

"Remember what?" she asked.

"Do you remember the last time we took it, Helen?"

She flushed a trifle, and half involuntarily turned her glance away again.

"Do you remember?" he asked again, seeing that she was silent.

"Yes, I remember," said the girl, her voice lower--"But I'd rather you did not--." She stopped
short.

"You wish to forget it, Helen?" asked Arthur.

He was trembling with anxiety, and his hands, which were clasped about his knee, were twitching.
"Oh, Helen, how can you?" he went on, his voice breaking. "Do you not remember the last night
that we sat there by the spring, and you were going away, no one knew for how long--and how
you told me that it was more than you could bear; and the promise that you made me? Oh, Helen!"

The girl gazed at him with a frightened look; he had sunk down upon his knee before her, and
he caught her hand which lay upon the log at her side.

"Helen!" he cried, "you cannot mean to forget that? For that promise has been the one joy of
my life, that for which I have labored so hard! My one hope, Helen! I came to-day to claim
it, to tell you--"

And with a wild glance about her, the girl sprang to her feet, snatching her hand away from his.

"Arthur!" she cried; "Arthur, you must not speak to me so!"

"I must not, Helen?"

"No, no," she cried, trembling; "we were only children, and we did not know the meaning of
the words we used. You must not talk to me that way, Arthur."

"Helen!" he protested, helplessly.

"No, no, I will not allow it!" she cried more vehemently, stepping back as he started towards
her, and holding close to her the hand he had held. "I had no idea there was such a thought
in your mind--"

Helen stopped, breathlessly.

"--or you would not have been so kind to me?" the other added faintly.

"I thought of you as an old friend," said Helen. "I was but a child when I went away. I wish
you still to be a friend, Arthur; but you must not act in that way."

The young man glanced once at her, and when he saw the stern look upon her face he buried his
head in his arms without a sound.

For fully a minute they remained thus, in silence; then as Helen watched him, her chest ceased
gradually to heave, and a gentler look returned to her face. She came and sat down on the log
again.

"Arthur," she said after another silence, "can we not just be friends?"

The young man answered nothing, but he raised his head and gazed at her; and she saw that there
were tears in his eyes, and a look of mute helplessness upon his face. She trembled slightly,
and rose to her feet again.

"Arthur," she said gravely, "this must not be; we must not sit here any longer. I must go."

"Helen!" exclaimed the other, springing up.

But he saw her brow knit again, and he stopped short. The girl gazed about her, and the village
in the distance caught her eye.

"Listen," she said, with forced calmness; "I promised father that I would go and see old Mrs.
Woodward, who was asking for me. You may wait here, if you like, and walk home with me, for
I shall not be gone very long. Will you do it?"

The other gazed at her for a moment or two; he was trying to read the girl's heart, but he
saw only the quiet firmness of her features.

"Will you wait, Arthur?" she asked again.

And Arthur's head sank upon his breast. "Yes, Helen," he said. When he lifted it again, the
girl was gone; she had disappeared in the thicket, and he could hear her footsteps as she passed
swiftly down the hillside.

He went to the edge of the woods, where he could see her a short distance below, hurrying down
the path with a step as light and free as ever. The wind had met her at the forest's edge and
joined her once more, playing about her skirts and tossing the lily again. As Arthur watched
her, the old music came back into his heart; his eyes sparkled, and all his soul seemed to
be dancing in time with her light motion. Thus it went until she came to a place where the
path must hide her from his view. The young man held his breath, and when she turned a cry
of joy escaped him; she saw him and waved her hand to him gaily as she swept on out of his sight.

For a moment afterwards he stood rooted to the spot, then whirled about and laughed aloud.
He put his hand to his forehead, which was flushed and hot, and he gazed about him, as if he
were not sure where he was. "Oh, she is so beautiful!" he cried, his face a picture of rapture.
"So beautiful!"

And he started through the forest as wildly as any madman, now muttering to himself and now
laughing aloud and making the forest echo with Helen's name. When he stopped again he was far
away from the path, in a desolate spot, but tho he was staring around him, he saw no more than
before. Trembling had seized his limbs, and he sank down upon the yellow forest leaves, hiding
his face in his hands and whispering, "Oh, if I should lose her! If I should lose her!" As
old Polonius has it, truly it was "the very ecstasy of love."

CHAPTER II

"A dancing shape, an image gay, To haunt, to startle, and waylay."

The town of Oakdale is at the present time a flourishing place, inhabited principally by "suburbanites,"
for it lies not very far from New York; but the Reverend Austin Davis, who was the spiritual
guardian of most of them, had come to Oakdale some twenty and more years ago, when it was only
a little village, with a struggling church which it was the task of the young clergyman to
keep alive. Perhaps the growth of the town had as much to do with his success as his own efforts;
but however that might have been he had received his temporal reward some ten years later,
in the shape of a fine stone church, with a little parsonage beside it. He had lived there
ever since, alone with his one child,--for just after coming to Oakdale he had married a daughter
of one of the wealthy families of the neighborhood, and been left a widower a year or two later.

A more unromantic and thoroughly busy man than Mr. Davis at the age of forty-five, when this
story begins, it would not have been easy to find; but nevertheless people spoke of no less
than two romances that had been connected with his life. One of them had been his early marriage,
which had created a mild sensation, while the other had come into his life even sooner, in
fact on the very first day of his arrival at Oakdale.

Mr. Davis could still bring back to his mind with perfect clearness the first night he had
spent in the little wooden cottage which he had hired for his residence; how while busily unpacking
his trunk and trying to bring the disordered place into shape, he had opened the door in answer
to a knock and beheld a woman stagger in out of the storm. She was a young girl, surely not
yet out of her teens, her pale and sunken face showing marks of refinement and of former beauty.
She carried in her arms a child of about a year's age, and she dropped it upon the sofa and
sank down beside it, half fainting from exhaustion. The young clergyman's anxious inquiries
having succeeded in eliciting but incoherent replies, he had left the room to procure some
nourishment for the exhausted woman; it was upon his return that the discovery of the romance
alluded to was made, for the woman had disappeared in the darkness and storm, and the baby
was still lying upon the sofa.

It was not altogether a pleasant romance, as is probably the case with a good many romances
in reality. Mr. Davis was destined to retain for a long time a vivid recollection of the first
night which he spent in alternately feeding that baby with a spoon, and in walking the floor
with it; and also to remember the sly glances which his parishioners only half hid from him
when his unpleasant plight was made known.

It happened that the poorhouse at Hilltown near by, to which the infant would have gone if
he had left it to the care of the county, was at that time being "investigated," with all that
the name implies when referring to public matters; the clergy of the neighborhood being active
in pushing the charges, Mr. Davis felt that at present it would look best for him to provide
for the child himself. As the investigation came to nothing, the inducement was made a permanent
one; perhaps also the memory of the mother's wan face had something to do with the matter.
At any rate the young clergyman, tho but scantily provided for himself, managed to spare enough
to engage a woman in the town to take care of the young charge. Subsequently when Mr. Davis'
wife died the woman became Helen's nurse, and so it was that Arthur, as the baby boy had been
christened, became permanently adopted into the clergyman's little family.

It had not been possible to keep from Arthur the secret of his parentage, and the fact that
it was known to all served to keep him aloof from the other children of the town, and to drive
him still more to the confidence of Helen. One of the phrases which Mr. Davis had caught from
the mother's lips had been that the boy was a "gentleman's son;" and Helen was wont to solace
him by that reminder. Perhaps the phrase, constantly repeated, had much to do with the proud
sensitiveness and the resolute independence which soon manifested itself in the lad's character.
He had scarcely passed the age of twelve before, tho treated by Mr. Davis with the love and
kindness of a father, he astonished the good man by declaring that he was old enough to take
care of himself; and tho Mr. Davis was better situated financially by that time, nothing that
he could say could alter the boy's quiet determination to leave school and be independent,
a resolution in which he was seconded by Helen, a little miss of some nine years. The two children
had talked it over for months, as it appeared, and concluded that it was best to sacrifice
in the cause of honor the privilege of going to school together, and of spending the long holidays
roaming about the country.

So the lad had served with childish dignity, first as an errand boy, and then as a store clerk,
always contributing his mite of "board" to Mr. Davis' household expenses; meanwhile, possibly
because he was really "a gentleman's son," and had inherited a taste for study, he had made
by himself about as much progress as if he had been at school. Some years later, to the delight
of Helen and Mr. Davis, he had carried off a prize scholarship above the heads of the graduates
of the Hilltown High School, and still refusing all help, had gone away to college, to support
himself there while studying by such work as he could find, knowing well that a true gentleman's
son is ashamed of nothing honest.

He spent his vacations at home, where he and Helen studied together,--or such rather had been
his hope; it was realized only for the first year.

Helen had an aunt upon her mother's side, a woman of wealth and social position, who owned
a large country home near Oakdale, and who was by no means inclined to view with the complacency
of Mr. Davis the idyllic friendship of the two young people. Mrs. Roberts, or "Aunt Polly"
as she was known to the family, had plans of her own concerning the future of the beauty which
she saw unfolding itself at the Oakdale parsonage. She said nothing to Mr. Davis, for he, being
busy with theological works and charitable organizations, was not considered a man from whom
one might hope for proper ideas about life. But with her own more practical husband she had
frequently discussed the danger, and the possible methods of warding it off.

To send Helen to a boarding school would have been of no use, for the vacations were the times
of danger; so it was that the trip abroad was finally decided upon. Aunt Polly, having traveled
herself, had a wholesome regard for German culture, believing that music and things of that
sort were paying investments. It chanced, also, that her own eldest daughter, who was a year
older than Helen, was about through with all that American teachers had to impart; and so after
much argument with Mr. Davis, it was finally arranged that she and Helen should study in Germany
together. Just when poor Arthur was returning home with the sublime title of junior, his dream
of all things divine was carried off by Aunt Polly, and after a summer spent in "doing" Europe,
was installed in a girl's school in Leipzig.

And now, three years having passed, Helen has left her cousin for another year of travel, and
returned home in all the glory of her own springtime and of Nature's; which brings us to where
we left her, hurrying away to pay a duty call in the little settlement on the hillside.

The visit had not been entirely a subterfuge, for Helen's father had mentioned to her that
the elderly person whom she had named to Arthur was expecting to see her when she returned,
and Helen had been troubled by the thought that she would never have any peace until she had
paid that visit. It was by no means an agreeable one, for old Mrs. Woodward was exceedingly
dull, and Helen felt that she was called upon to make war upon dullness. However, it had occurred
to her to get her task out of the way at once, while she felt that she ought to leave Arthur.

The visit proved to be quite as depressing as she had expected, for it is sad to have to record
that Helen, however sensitive to the streamlet and the flowers, had not the least sympathy
in the world for an old woman who had a very sharp chin, who stared at one through two pairs
of spectacles, and whose conversation was about her own health and the dampness of the springtime,
besides the dreariest gossip about Oakdale's least interesting people. Perhaps it might have
occurred to the girl that it is very forlorn to have nothing else to talk about, and that even
old Mrs. Woodward might have liked to hear about some of the things in the forest, or to have
been offered the lily and the marigold. Unfortunately, however, Helen did not think about any
of that, but only moved restlessly about in her chair and gazed around the ugly room. Finally
when she could stand it no more, she sprang up between two of Mrs. Woodward's longest sentences
and remarked that it was very late and a long way home, and that she would come again some time.

Then at last when she was out in the open air, she drew a deep breath and fled away to the
woods, wondering what could be God's reason for such things. It was not until she was half
way up the hillside that she could feel that the wind, which blew now upon her forehead, had
quite swept away the depression which had settled upon her. She drank in the odors which blew
from the woods, and began singing to herself again, and looking out for Arthur.

She was rather surprised not to see him at once, and still more surprised when she came nearer
and raised her voice to call him; for she reached the forest and came to the place where she
had left him without a reply having come. She shouted his name again and again, until at last,
not without a half secret chagrin to have been so quickly forgotten, she was obliged to set
out for home alone.

"Perhaps he's gone on ahead," she thought, quickening her pace.

For a time she watched anxiously, expecting to see his darkly clad figure; but she soon wearied
of continued failure, and because it was her birthday, and because the brook was still at her
side and the beautiful forest still about her, she took to singing again, and was quickly as
happy and glorious as before, ceasing her caroling and moderating her woodland pace only when
she neared the town. She passed down the main street of Oakdale, not quite without an exulting
consciousness that her walk had crowned her beauty and that no one whom she saw was thinking
about anything else; and so she came to her home, to the dear old parsonage, with its spreading
ivy vines, and its two great elms.

When she had hurried up the steps and shut the door behind her, Helen felt privileged again
to be just as merry as she chose, for she was even more at home here than in the woods; it
seemed as if everything were stretching out its arms to her to welcome her, and to invite her
to carry out her declared purpose of taking the reins of government in her own hands.

Upon one side of the hallway was a parlor, and on the other side two rooms, which Mr. Davis
had used as a reception room and a study. The parlor had never been opened, and Helen promised
herself a jolly time superintending the fixing up of that; on the other side she had already
taken possession of the front room, symbolically at any rate, by having her piano moved in
and her music unpacked, and a case emptied for the books she had brought from Germany. To be
sure, on the other side was still a dreary wall of theological treatises in funereal black,
but Helen was not without hopes that continued doses of cheerfulness might cure her father
of such incomprehensible habits, and obtain for her the permission to move the books to the attic.

To start things in that direction the girl now danced gaily into the study where her father
was in the act of writing "thirdly, brethren," for his next day's sermon; and crying out merrily,

  "Up, up my friend, and quit your books,
  Or surely you'll grow double!"

she saluted her reverend father with the sweetest of kisses, and then seated herself on the
arm of his chair and gravely took his pen out of his hand, and closed his inkstand.

And then she laughed the merriest of merry laughs and added, "Daddy, dear, I am an impulse!
And I want you to spare some time for me."

"Yes, my love," said Mr. Davis, smiling upon her, though groaning inwardly for his lost ideas.
"You are beautiful this morning, Helen. What have you been doing?"

"I've had a glorious walk," replied the girl, "and all kinds of wonderful adventures; I've
had a dance with the morning wind, and a race of a mile or two with a brook, and I've sung
duets with all the flowers,--and here you are writing uninteresting things!"

"It's my sermon, Helen," said Mr. Davis.

"I know it," said Helen, gravely.

"But it must be done for to-morrow," protested the other.

"Half your congregation is going to be so excited about two tallow candles that it won't know
what you preach about," answered the girl, swinging herself on the arm of the chair; "and I'm
going to sing for the other half, and so they won't care either. And besides, Daddy, I've got
news to tell you; you've no idea what a good girl I've been."

"How, my love?"

"I went to see Mrs. Woodward."

"You didn't!"

"Yes; and it was just to show you how dutiful I'm going to be. Daddy, I felt so sorry for the
poor old lady; it is so beautiful to know that one is doing good and bringing happiness into
other people's lives! I think I'll go and see her often, and carry her something nice if you'll
let me."

Helen said all that as gravely as a judge; but Mr. Davis was agreeing so delightedly that she
feared she was carrying the joke too far. She changed the subject quickly.

"Oh, Daddy!" she cried, "I forgot to tell you--I met a genius to-day!"

"A genius?" inquired the other.

"Yes," said Helen, "and I've been walking around with him all morning out in the woods! Did
you never hear that every place like that has a genius?"

"Yes," assented Mr. Davis, "but I don't understand your joke."

"This was the genius of Hilltown High School," laughed Helen.

"Oh, Arthur!"

"Yes; will you believe it, the dear boy had walked all the way from there to see me; and he
waited out by the old seat at the spring!"

"But where is he now?"

"I don't know," said Helen. "It's very queer; I left him to go see Mrs. Woodward. He didn't
go with me," she added, "I don't believe he felt inclined to charity."

"That is not like Arthur," said the other.

"I'm going to take him in hand, as becomes a clergyman's daughter," said Helen demurely; "I'm
going to be a model daughter, Daddy--just you wait and see! I'll visit all your parishioners'
lawn-parties and five o'clock teas for you, and I'll play Handel's Largo and Siegfried's Funeral
March whenever you want to write sermons. Won't you like that?"

"Perhaps," said Mr. Davis, dubiously.

"Only I know you'll make blots when I come to the cymbals," said Helen; and she doubled up
her fists and hummed the passage, and gave so realistic an imitation of the cymbal-clashes
in the great dirge that it almost upset the chair. Afterwards she laughed one of her merriest
laughs and kissed her father on the forehead.

"I heard it at Baireuth," she said, "and it was just fine! It made your flesh creep all over
you. And oh, Daddy, I brought home a souvenir of Wagner's grave!"

"Did you?" asked Mr. Davis, who knew very little about Wagner.

"Yes," said Helen, "just a pebble I picked up near it; and you ought to have seen the custom-house
officer at the dock yesterday when he was going through my trunks. 'What's this, Miss?' he
asked; I guess he thought it was a diamond in the rough. 'Oh, that's from Wagner's grave,'
I said. And what do you think the wretch did?"

"I'm sure I don't know, my love."

"He threw it back, saying it wasn't worth anything; I think he must have been a Brahmsite."

"It took the longest time going through all my treasures," Helen prattled on, after laughing
at her own joke; "you know Aunt Polly let us have everything we wanted, bless her heart!"

"I'm afraid Aunt Polly must have spoiled you," said the other.

"She has," laughed Helen; "I really think she must mean to make me marry a rich husband, or
else she'd never have left me at that great rich school; Lucy and I were the 'star-boarders'
you know, and we just had everybody to spoil us. How in the world could you ever manage to
spare so much money, Daddy?"

"Oh, it was not so much," said Mr. Davis; "things are cheaper abroad." (As a matter of fact,
the grimly resolute Aunt Polly had paid two-thirds of her niece's expenses secretly, besides
distributing pocket money with lavish generosity.)

"And you should see the wonderful dresses I've brought from Paris," Helen went on. "Oh, Daddy,
I tell you I shall be glorious! Aunt Polly's going to invite a lot of people at her house next
week to meet me, and I'm going to wear the reddest of red, red dresses, and just shine like
a lighthouse!"

"I'm afraid," said the clergyman, surveying her with more pride than was perhaps orthodox,
"I'm afraid you'll find it hard to be satisfied in this poor little home of ours."

"Oh, that's all right," said Helen; "I'll soon get used to it; and besides, I've got plenty
of things to fix it up with--if you'll only get those dreadful theological works out of the
front room! Daddy dear, you can't imagine how hard it is to bring the Valkyries and Niebelungs
into a theological library."

"I'll see what I can do, my love," said Mr. Davis.

He was silent for a few moments, perhaps wondering vaguely whether it was well that this commanding
young lady should have everything in the world she desired; Helen, who had her share of penetration,
probably divined the thought, for she made haste to change the subject.

"By the way," she laughed, "we got so interested in our chattering that we forgot all about
Arthur."

"Sure enough," exclaimed the other. "Pray where can he have gone?"

"I don't know," Helen said; "it's strange. But poets are such queer creatures!"

"Arthur is a very splendid creature," said Mr. Davis. "You have no idea, Helen, how hard he
has labored since you have been away. He carried off all the honors at college, and they say
he has written some good poetry. I don't know much about that, but the people who know tell me so."

"It would be gloriously romantic to know a great poet," said Helen, "and perhaps have him write
poetry about you,--'Helen, thy beauty is to me,' and 'Sweet Helen, make me immortal with a
kiss,' and all sorts of things like that! He's coming to live with us this summer as usual,
isn't he, Daddy?"

"I don't know," said the other; "I presume he will. But where can he have gone to-day?"

"He acted very queerly," said the girl; and then suddenly a delighted smile lit up her face.
"Oh, Daddy," she added, "do you know, I think Arthur is in love!"

"In love!" gasped Mr. Davis.

"Yes, in love!"

"Pray, with whom?"

"I'm sure I can't imagine," said Helen gravely; "but he seemed so abstracted, and he seemed
to have something to tell me. And then he ran away!"

"That is very strange indeed," remarked the other. "I shall have to speak to him about it."

"If he doesn't come back soon, I'll go to look for him," said the girl; "I'm not going to let
the water nixies run off with my Arthur; there are such things in that stream, because the
song I was singing about it says so." And then she chanted as merrily as ever:

  "Why speak I of a murmur?
    No murmur can it be;
  The Nixies they are singing
    'Neath the wave their melody!"

"I will tell you what," said Mr. Davis, rising from his chair as he realized that the sermon
had entirely vanished for the present. "You may go part of the way with me, and we'll stop
in to see the Vails."

"The Vails!" gasped Helen. (Mr. Vail was the village dairyman, whose farm lay on the outskirts
of the town; the village dairyman's family was not one that Helen cared to visit.)

"My love," said Mr. Davis, "poor Mrs. Vail has been very ill, and she has three little children,
you know. You told me that you liked to bring joy wherever you could."

"Yes, but, Daddy," protested Helen, "those children are dirty! Ugh! I saw them as I came by."

"My love," answered the other, "they are God's children none the less; and we cannot always
help such things."

"But we can, Daddy; there is plenty of water in the world."

"Yes, of course; but when the mother is ill, and the father in trouble! For poor Mr. Vail has
had no end of misfortune; he has no resource but the little dairy, and three of his cows have
been ill this spring."

And Helen's incorrigible mirth lighted up her face again. "Oh!" she cried. "Is that it! I saw
him struggling away at the pump as I came by; but I had no idea it was anything so serious!"

Mr. Davis looked grieved; Helen, when her first burst of glee had passed, noticed it and changed
her mood. She put her arms around her father's neck and pressed her cheek against his.

"Daddy, dear," she said coaxingly, "haven't I done charity enough for one day? You will surfeit
me at the start, and then I'll be just as little fond of it as I was before. When I must let
dirty children climb all over me, I can dress for the occasion."

"My dear," pleaded Mr. Davis, "Godliness is placed before Cleanliness."

"Yes," admitted Helen, "and of course it is right for you to inculcate the greater virtue;
but I'm only a girl, and you mustn't expect sublimity from me. You don't want to turn me into
a president of sewing societies, like that dreadful Mrs. Dale!"

"Helen," protested the other, helplessly, "I wish you would not always refer to Mrs. Dale with
that adjective; she is the best helper I have."

"Yes, Daddy," said Helen, with the utmost solemnity; "when I have a dreadful eagle nose like
hers, perhaps I can preside over meetings too. But I can't now."

"I do not want you to, my love; but--"

"And if I have to cling by the weaker virtue of cleanliness just for a little while, Daddy,
you must not mind. I'll visit all your clean parishioners for you,--parishioners like Aunt Polly!"

And before Mr. Davis could make another remark, the girl had skipped into the other room to
the piano; as her father went slowly out the door, the echoes of the old house were laughing
with the happy melody of Purcell's--

  Nymphs and shepherds, come a-way, come a-way,
  Nymphs and shepherds, come a-way, come a-way, Come,
  come, come, come a-way!

CHAPTER III

  "For you alone I strive to sing,
    Oh, tell me how to woo!"

When Helen was left alone, she seated herself before her old music stand which had been brought
down to welcome her, and proceeded to glance over and arrange the pieces she had learned and
loved in her young girlhood. Most of them made her smile, and when she reflected upon how difficult
she used to think them, she realized that now that it was over she was glad for the German
regime. Helen had accounted herself an accomplished pianist when she went away, but she had
met with new standards and learned to think humbly of herself in the great home of music. She
possessed a genuine fondness for the art, however, and had devoted most of her three years
to it, so that she came home rejoicing in the possession of a technic that was quite a mastership
compared with any that she was likely to meet.

Helen's thoughts did not dwell upon that very long at present, however; she found herself thinking
again about Arthur, and the unexpected ending of her walk with him.

"I had no idea he felt that way toward me," she mused, resting her chin in her hand; "what
in the world am I going to do? Men are certainly most inconvenient creatures; I thought I was
doing everything in the world to make him happy!"

Helen turned to the music once more, but the memory of the figure she had left sunken helplessly
upon the forest seat stayed in her mind. "I do wonder if that can be why he did not wait for
me," she thought, shuddering,--"if he was too wretched to see me again; what CAN I do?" She
got up and began walking restlessly up and down the room for a few minutes.

"Perhaps I ought to go and look for him," she mused; "it was an hour or two ago that I left
him there;" and Helen, after thinking the matter over, had half turned to leave, when she heard
a step outside and saw the door open quickly. Even before she saw him she knew who it was,
for only Arthur would have entered without ringing the bell. After having pictured him overcome
by despair, it was rather a blow to her pride to see him, for he entered flushed, and seemingly
elated.

"Well, sir, you've treated me nicely!" she exclaimed, showing her vexation in spite of herself.

"You will forgive me," said Arthur, smiling.

"Don't be too sure of it," Helen said; "I looked for you everywhere, and I am quite angry."

"I was obeying your high command," the other replied, still smiling.

"My command? I told you to wait for me."

"You told me something else," laughed Arthur. "You spent all the morning instructing me for
it, you know."

"Oh!" said Helen. It was a broad and very much prolonged "Oh," for a sudden light was dawning
upon the girl; as it came her frown gave place to a look of delight.

"You have been writing me a poem!" she cried, eagerly.

"Yes," said Arthur.

"Oh, you dear boy!" Helen laughed. "Then I do forgive you; but you ought to have told me, for
I had to walk home all alone, and I've been worrying about you. I never once thought of the poem."

"The muses call without warning," laughed Arthur, "and one has to obey them, you know."

"Oh, oh!" exclaimed the other. "And so you've been wandering around the woods all this time,
making verses! And you've been waving your arms and talking to yourself, and doing all sorts
of crazy things, I know!" Then as she saw Arthur flush, she went on: "I was sure of it! And
you ran away so that I wouldn't see you! Oh, I wish I'd known; I'd have hunted you up and never
come home until I'd found you."

As was usual with Helen, her momentary vexation had gone like April rain, and all her seriousness
had vanished with it. She forgot all about the last scene in the woods, and Arthur was once
more the friend of her girlhood, whom she might take by the hand when she chose, and with whom
she might be as free and happy as when she was alone with the flowers and the wind. It seemed
as if Arthur too had vented all his pent up emotion, and returned to his natural cheerful self.

"Tell me," she cried, "did you put in all the things I told you about?"

"I put all I could," said Arthur. "That is a great deal to ask."

"I only want it to be full of life," laughed Helen. "That's all I care about; the man who wants
to write springtime poetry for me must be wide awake!"

"Shall I read it to you?" asked Arthur, hesitatingly.

"Yes, of course," said Helen. "And read it as if you meant it; if I like it I'll tell you so."

"I wrote it for nothing but to please you" was the reply, and Arthur took a much bescrawled
piece of paper from his pocket; the girl seated herself upon the piano stool again and gazed
up at him as he rested his elbow upon the top of the piano and read his lines. There could
not have been a situation in which the young poet would have read them with more complete happiness,
and so it was a pleasure to watch him. And Helen's eyes kindled, and her cheeks flushed brightly
as she listened, for she found that the verses had taken their imagery from her very lips.

  In the May-time's golden glory
    Ere the quivering sun was high,
  I heard the Wind of Morning
    Through the laughing meadows fly;

  In his passion-song was throbbing
    All the madness of the May,
  And he whispered: Thou hast labored;
    Thou art weary; come away!

  Thou shalt drink a fiery potion
    For thy prisoned spirit's pain;
  Thou shalt taste the ancient rapture
    That thy soul has sought in vain.

  I will tell thee of a maiden,
    One who has thy longing fanned--
  Spirit of the Forest Music--
    Thou shalt take her by the hand,

  Lightly by her rosy fingers
    Trembling with her keen delight,
  And her flying steps shall lead thee
    Out upon the mountain's height;

  To a dance undreamed of mortal
    To the Bacchanal of Spring,--
  Where in mystic joy united
    Nature's bright-eyed creatures sing.

  There the green things of the mountain,
    Million-voiced, newly-born,
  And the flowers of the valley
    In their beauty's crimson morn;

  There the winged winds of morning,
    Spirits unresting, touched with fire,
  And the streamlets, silver-throated,
    They whose leaping steps ne'er tire!

  Thou shalt see them, ever circling
    Round about a rocky spring,
  While the gaunt old forest-warriors
    Madly their wide branches fling.

  Thou shalt tread the whirling measure,
    Bathe thee in its frenzied strife;
  Thou shalt have a mighty memory
    For thy spirit's after life.

  Haste thee while thy heart is burning,
    While thine eyes have strength to see;
  Hark, behind yon blackening cloud-bank,
    To the Storm-King's minstrelsy!

  See, he stamps upon the mountains,
    And he leaps the valleys high!
  Now he smites his forest harp-strings,
    And he sounds his thunder-cry:--

  Waken, lift ye up, ye creatures,
    Sing the song, each living thing!
  Join ye in the mighty passion
    Of the Symphony of Spring!

And so the young poet finished, his cheeks fairly on fire, and, as he gazed down at Helen,
his hand trembling so that he could hardly hold the paper. One glance told him that she was
pleased, for the girl's face was flushed like his own, and her eyes were sparkling with delight.
Arthur's heart gave a great throb within him.

"You like it!" he exclaimed.

"Oh, Arthur, I do!" she cried. "Oh, how glorious you must have been!" And trembling with girlish
delight, she took the paper from his hand and placed it in front of her on the music rack.

"Oh, I should like to write music for it!" she exclaimed; "for those lines about the Storm-King!"

And she read them aloud, clenching her hands and shaking her head, carried away by the image
they brought before her eyes. "Oh, I should like music for it!" she cried again.

"I don't know very much about poetry, you know," she added, laughing excitedly. "If it's about
the things I like, I can't help thinking it's fine. It's just the same with music,--if a man
only makes it swift and strong, so that it leaps and flies and never tires, that is all I care
about; and if he just keeps his trombones till the very last, he can carry me off my feet though
he makes the worst noise that ever was! It's the same as a storm, you know, Arthur; do you
remember how we used to go up on our hillside when the great wind was coming, and when everything
was growing still and black; and how we used to watch the big clouds and the sheets of rain,
and run for home when we heard the thunder? Once when you were away, Arthur, I didn't run,
for I wanted to see what it was like; and I stayed up there and saw it all, singing the 'Ride
of the Valkyries,' and pretending I was one of them and could gallop with the wind. For the
wind is fine, Arthur! It fills you so full of its power that you stretch out your arms to it,
and it makes you sing; and it comes, and it comes again, stronger than ever, and it sweeps
you on, just like a great mass of music. And then it howls through the trees and it flies over
the valleys,--that was what you were thinking of, weren't you, Arthur?"

And Helen stopped, breathlessly, and gazed at him; her cheeks were flushed, and her hands still
tightly clasped.

"Yes," said Arthur, half mechanically, for he had lost himself in the girl's enthusiasm, and
felt the storm of his verses once more.

"Your poem made me think of that one time that was so gloriously," Helen went on. "For the
rain was almost blinding, and I was drenched, but I did not even know it. For oh, the thunder!
Arthur, you've no idea what thunder is like till you're near it! There fell one fearful bolt
quite near me, a great white, living thing, as thick as a man's body, and the crash of it seemed
to split the air. But oh, I didn't mind it a bit! 'Der Sanger triumphirt in Wettern!' I think
I was a real Valkyrie that time, and I only wished that I might put it into music."

The girl turned to the piano, and half in play struck a great rumbling chord, that rolled and
echoed through the room; she sounded it once more, laughing aloud with glee. Arthur had sunk
down upon a chair beside her, and was bending forward, watching her with growing excitement.
For again and again Helen struck the keys with all the power of her arms, until they seemed
to give forth real storm and thunder; and as she went on with her reckless play the mood grew
upon her, and she lost herself in the vision of the Storm-King sweeping through the sky. She
poured out a great stream of his wild music, singing away to herself excitedly in the meantime.
And as the rush continued and the fierce music swelled louder, the phantasy took hold of the
girl and carried her beyond herself. She seemed to become the very demon of the storm, unbound
and reckless; she smote the keys with right royal strength, and the piano seemed a thing of
life beneath her touch. The pace became faster, and the thunder rattled and crashed more wildly,
and there awoke in the girl's soul a power of musical utterance that she had never dreamed
of in her life before. Her whole being was swept away in ecstasy; her lips were moving excitedly,
and her pulses were leaping like mad. She seemed no longer to know of the young man beside
her, who was bent forward with clenched hands, carried beyond himself by the sight of her exulting
power.

And as the cry came the girl laughed aloud, like a very Valkyrie indeed, her laugh part of
the music, and carried on by it; and then gradually as the tempest swept on, the rolling thunder
was lost in a march that was the very tread of the Storm-King. And the march broadened, and
the thunder died out of it slowly, and all the wild confusion, and then it rose, glorious and
triumphant, and turned to a mighty pean, a mightier one than ever Helen could have made. The
thought of it had come to her as an inspiration, and as a refuge, that the glory of her passion
might not be lost. The march had led her to it, and now it had taken her in its arms and swept
her away, as it had swept millions by its majesty. It was the great Ninth Symphony Hymn:

  "Hail thee, Joy! From Heaven descending,
    Daughter from Elysium!
  Ecstasy our hearts inflaming,
    To thy sacred shrine we come.
  Thine enchantments bind together
    Those whom custom's law divides;
  All are brothers, all united,
    Where thy gentle wing abides."

And Helen sang it as one possessed by it, as one made drunk with its glory--as the very Goddess
of Joy that she was. For the Storm-King and his legions had fled, and another vision had come
into her heart, a vision that every one ought to carry with him when the great symphony is
to be heard. He should see the hall in Vienna where it was given for the last time in the great
master's life, and see the great master himself, the bowed and broken figure that all musicians
worship, standing up to conduct it; and see him leading it through all its wild surging passion,
almost too frantic to be endured; and then, when the last towering climax has passed and the
music has ceased and the multitude at his back has burst forth into its thundering shout, see
the one pathetic figure standing there aloft before all eyes and still blindly beating the
time. There must have been tears in the eyes of every man in that place to know the reason
for it,--that he from whose heart all their joy had come, he who was lord and master of it,
had never heard in his life and could never hope to hear one sound of that music he had written,
but must dwell a prisoner in darkness and solitude forever.

That was the picture before Helen's eyes; she did not think of the fearful tragedy of it--she
had no feeling for tragedy, she knew no more about suffering than a child just born. But joy
she knew, and joy she was; she was the multitude lifted up in its ecstasy, throbbing, burning
and triumphant, and she sang the great choruses, one after another, and the piano beneath her
fingers thundered and rang with the instrumental part. Surely in all music there is no utterance
of joy so sustained and so overwhelming in its intensity as this; it is a frenzy almost more
than man can stand; it is joy more than human--the joy of existence:--

  "Pleasure every creature living
    From kind Nature's breast receives;
  Good and evil, all are seeking
    For the rosy path she leaves."

And so the torrent of passionate exultation swept Helen onward with it until the very end,
the last frantic prestissimo chorus, and then she sprang to her feet and flung up her hands
with a cry. She stood thus for a moment, glowing with exultation, and then she sank down again
and sat staring before her, the music still echoing through every fiber of her soul, and the
shouting multitude still surging before her.

For just how long that lasted, she knew not, but only that her wild mood was gradually subsiding,
and that she felt herself sinking back, as a bird sinks after its flight; then suddenly she
turned. Arthur was at her side, and she gave a cry, for he had seized her hand in his, and
was covering it with burning kisses.

"Arthur! Arthur!" she gasped.

The young man gazed up at her, and Helen remembered the scene in the forest, and realized what
she had done. She had shaken him to the very depths of his being by the emotion which she had
flung loose before him, and he seemed beside himself at that moment, his hair disordered and
his forehead hot and flushed. He made a move as if to clasp the girl in his arms, and Helen
tore her hand loose by main force and sprang back to the doorway.

"Arthur!" she cried. "What do you mean?"

He clutched at a chair for support, and stood staring at her. For fully a minute they remained
thus, Helen trembling with alarm; then his head sank, and he flung himself down upon the sofa,
where he lay sobbing passionately. Helen remained gazing at him with wide open and astonished eyes.

"Arthur!" she exclaimed again.

But he did not hear her, for the cruel sobbing that shook his frame. Helen, as soon as her
first alarm had passed, came softly nearer, till she stood by the sofa; but still he did not
heed her, and she did not dare even to put her hand upon his shoulder. She was afraid of him,
her dearest friend, and she knew not what to make of him.

"Arthur," she whispered again, when he was silent for a moment. "Please speak to me, Arthur."

The other gazed up at her with a look of such helpless despair and longing upon his face that
Helen was frightened still more. He had been sobbing as if his heart would break, but his eyes
were dry.

"What is the matter?" she cried.

The young man answered her hoarsely: "Can you not see what is the matter, Helen? I love you!
And you drive me mad!"

The girl turned very pale, and lowered her eyes before his burning gaze.

"Helen," the other went on impetuously, "you will break my heart if you treat me in this way.
Do you not know that for three long years I have been dreaming of you, and of the promise that
you gave me? You told me that you loved me, and that you always would love me! You told me
that the night before you went away; and you kissed me. All this time I have been thinking
of that kiss, and cherishing the memory of it, and waiting for you to return. I have labored
for no other reason, I have had no other hope in the world; I have kept your image before me,
and lived in it, and worshiped before it, and the thought of you has been all that I had. When
I was tired and worn and ill I could only think of you and remember your promise, and count
the days before your return. And, oh, it has been so long that I could not stand it! For weeks
I have been so impatient, and so filled with the thought of the day when I might see you again
that I have been helpless and half mad; for I thought that I should take your hand in mine
and claim your promise. And this morning I wandered about the woods for hours, waiting for
you to come. And see how you have treated me!"

He buried his face in his hands again, and Helen stood gazing at him, breathing very fast with
alarm, and unable to find a word to say.

"Helen," he groaned, without looking up again, "do you not know that you are beautiful? Have
you no heart? You fling your soul bare before me, and you fill me with this fearful passion;
you will drive me mad!"

"But, Arthur," she protested, "I could not think of you so; I thought of you as my brother,
and I meant to make you happy."

"Tell me, then," he gasped, staring at her, "tell me once for all. You do not love me, Helen?"

The girl answered with a frank gaze that was cruel, "No, Arthur."

"And you can never love me? You take back the promise that you made me?"

"I told you that I was only a child, Arthur; it has been a long time since I have thought of it."

The young man choked back a sob. "Oh, Helen, if you only knew what cruel words those are,"
he groaned. "I cannot bear them."

He gazed at her with his burning eyes, so that the girl lowered hers again. "Tell me!" he exclaimed.
"What am I to do?"

"Can we not remain friends, just as we used to be?" she asked pleadingly. "Can we not talk
together and help each other as before? Oh, Arthur, I thought you would come here to live all
summer, and how I should like it! Why can you not? Can you not let me play for you without--without--"
and Helen stopped, and flushed a trifle; "I do not know quite what to make of you to-day,"
she added.

She was speaking kindly, but to the man beside her with his burning heart, her words were hard
to hear; he stared at her, shuddering, and then suddenly he clenched his hands and started
to his feet.

"Helen," he cried, "there is but one thing. I must go!"

"Go?" echoed Helen.

"If I stay here and gaze at you I shall go mad with despair," he exclaimed incoherently. "Oh,
I shall go mad! For I do love you, and you talk to me as if I were a child! Helen, I must get
this out of my heart in some way, I cannot stay here."

"But, Arthur," the girl protested, "I told father you would stay, and you will make yourself
ill, for you have walked all day."

Every word she uttered was more torment to the other, for it showed him how much his hopes
were gone to wreck. He rushed across the room and opened the door; then, however, he paused,
as if that had cost him all his resolution. He gazed at the girl with a look of unspeakable
yearning, his face white, and his limbs trembling beneath him.

"You wish me to go, Helen?" he exclaimed.

"Wish you!" exclaimed Helen, who was watching him in alarm. "Of course not; I want you to stay
and see father, and--"

"And hear you tell me that you do not love me! Oh, Helen, how can you say it again? Can you
not see what you have done to me?"

"Arthur!" cried the girl.

"Yes, what you have done to me! You have made me so that I dare not stay near you. You must
love me, Helen, oh, some time you must!" And he came toward her again, stretching out his arms
to her. As she sprang back, frowning, he stopped and stood for an instant, half sinking; then
he whirled about and darted out of the door.

Helen was scarcely able to realize at first that he was gone, but when she looked out she saw
that he was already far down the street, walking swiftly. For a moment she thought of calling
him; but she checked herself, and closed the door quietly instead, after which she walked slowly
across the room. In the center of it she stopped still, gazing in front of her thoughtfully,
and looking very grave indeed. "That is dreadful," she said slowly. "I had no idea of such
a thing. What in the world am I to do?"

There was a tall mirror between the two windows of the room, and Helen went toward it and stood
in front of it, gazing earnestly at herself. "Is it true, then, that I am so very beautiful?"
she mused. "And even Arthur must fall in love with me!"

Helen's face was still flushed with the glory of her ride with the Storm-King; she smoothed
back the long strands of golden hair that had come loose, and then she looked at herself again.
"It is dreadful," she said once more, half aloud, "I do not think I ever felt so nervous in
my life, and I don't know what to do; everything I did to please him seemed only to make him
more miserable. I wanted him to be happy with me; I wanted him to stay with me." And she walked
away frowning, and seated herself at the piano and began peevishly striking at the keys. "I
am going to write to him and tell him that he must get over that dreadfulness," she muttered
after a while, "and come back and be friends with me. Oakdale will be too stupid without him
all summer, and I should be miserable."

She was just rising impatiently when the front door opened and her father came in, exclaiming
in a cheery voice, "Well, children!" Then he stopped in surprise. "Why, someone told me Arthur
was here!" he exclaimed.

"He's gone home again," said Helen, in a dissatisfied tone.

"Home!" exclaimed the other. "To Hilltown?"

"Yes."

"But I thought he was going to stay until tomorrow."

"So did I," said Helen, "but he changed his mind and decided that he'd better not."

"Why, I am really disappointed," said Mr. Davis. "I thought we should have a little family
party; I haven't seen Arthur for a month."

"There is some important reason," said Helen--"that's what he told me, anyway." She did not
want her father to have any idea of the true reason, or to ask any inconvenient questions.

Mr. Davis would perhaps have done so, had he not something else on his mind. "By the way, Helen,"
he said, "I must ask you, what in the world was that fearful noise you were making?"

"Noise?" asked Helen, puzzled for a moment.

"Why, yes; I met old Mr. Nelson coming down the street, and he said that you were making a
most dreadful racket upon the piano, and shouting, too, and that there were a dozen people
standing in the street, staring!"

A sudden wild thought occurred to Helen, and she whirled about. Sure enough, she found the
two windows of the room wide open; and that was too much for her gravity; she flung herself
upon the sofa and gave vent to peal after peal of laughter.

"Oh, Daddy!" she gasped. "Oh, Daddy!"

Mr. Davis did not understand the joke, but he waited patiently, taking off his gloves in the
meantime. "What it is, Helen?" he enquired.

"Oh, Daddy!" exclaimed the girl again, and lifted herself up and turned her laughing eyes upon
him. "And now I understand why inspired people have to live in the country!"

"What was it, Helen?"

"It--it wasn't anything, Daddy, except that I was playing and singing for Arthur, and I forgot
to close the windows."

"You must remember, my love, that you live in a clergyman's house," said Mr. Davis. "I have
no objection to merriment, but it must be within bounds. Mr. Nelson said that he did not know
what to think was the matter."

Helen made a wry face at the name; the Nelsons were a family of Methodists who lived across
the way. Methodists are people who take life seriously as a rule, and Helen thought the Nelsons
were very queer indeed.

"I'll bet he did know what to think," she chuckled, "even if he didn't say it; he thought that
was just what to expect from a clergyman who had a decanter of wine on his dinner table."

Mr. Davis could not help smiling. And as for Helen, she was herself all over again; for when
her father had come in, she had about reached a point where she could no longer bear to be
serious and unhappy. As he went on to ask her to be a little less reckless, Helen put her arms
around him and said, with the solemnity that she always wore when she was gayest: "But, Daddy,
I don't know what I'm to do; you sent me to Germany to study music, and if I'm never to play it--"

"Yes, but Helen; such frantic, dreadful noise!"

"But, Daddy, the Germans are emotional people, you know; no one would have been in the least
surprised at that in Germany; it was a hymn, Daddy!"

"A hymn!" gasped Mr. Davis.

"Yes, honestly," said Helen. "It is a wonderful hymn. Every German knows it nearly by heart."

Mr. Davis had as much knowledge of German music as might be expected of one who had lived twenty
years in the country and heard three hymns and an anthem sung every Sunday by a volunteer choir.
Helen's musical education, as all her other education, had been superintended by Aunt Polly,
and the only idea that came to Mr. Davis' mind was of Wagner, whose name he had heard people
talk about in connection with noise and incoherency.

"Helen," he said, "I trust that is not the kind of hymn you are going to sing to-morrow."

"I don't know," was the puzzled reply. "I'll see what I can do, Daddy. It's dreadfully hard
to find anything in German music like the slow-going, practical lives that we dull Yankees
lead." Then a sudden idea occurred to the girl, and she ran to the piano with a gleeful laugh:
"Just see, for instance," she said, fumbling hurriedly amongst her music, "I was playing the
Moonlight Sonata this morning, and that's a good instance."

"This is the kind of moonlight they have in Germany," she laughed when she found it. After
hammering out a few discords of her own she started recklessly into the incomprehensible "presto,"
thundering away at every crescendo as if to break her fingers. "Isn't it fine, Daddy?" she
cried, gazing over her shoulder.

"I don't see what it has to do with the moon," said the clergyman, gazing helplessly at the
open window, and wondering if another crowd was gathering.

"That's what everybody's been trying to find out!" said Helen; then, as she heard the dinner
bell out in the hall, she ended with half a dozen frantic runs, and jumping up with the last
of them, took her father's arm and danced out of the room with him.

"Perhaps when we come to see the other side of the moon," she said, "we may discover all about
it. Or else it's because the moon is supposed to set people crazy." So they passed in to dinner,
where Helen was as animated as ever, poor Arthur and his troubles seeming to have vanished
completely from her thoughts.

In fact, it was not until the meal was nearly over that she spoke of them again; she noticed
that it was growing dark outside, and she stepped to the window just as a distant rumble of
thunder was heard.

"Dear me!" she exclaimed. "There's a fearful storm coming, and poor Arthur is out in it; he
must be a long way from town by this time, and there is no house where he can go." From the
window where she stood she had a view across the hills in back of the town, and could see the
black clouds coming swiftly on. "It is like we were imagining this morning," she mused; "I
wonder if he will think of it."

The dinner was over soon after that, and she looked out again, just as the first drops of rain
were falling; the thunder was rolling louder, bringing to Helen a faint echo of her morning
music. She went in and sat down at the piano, her fingers roaming over the keys hesitatingly.
"I wish I could get it again," she mused. "It seems like a dream when I think of it, it was
so wild and so wonderful. Oh, if I could only remember that march!"

There came a crash of thunder near by, as if to help her, but Helen found that all efforts
were in vain. Neither the storm music nor the march came back to her, and even when she played
a few chords of the great chorus she had sung, it sounded tame and commonplace. Helen knew
that the glory of that morning was gone where goes the best inspiration of all humanity, back
into nothingness and night.

"It was a shame," she thought, as she rose discontentedly from the piano. "I never was so carried
away by music in my life, and the memory of it would have kept me happy for weeks, if Arthur
hadn't been here to trouble me!"

Then, however, as she went to the window again to watch the storm which was now raging in all
its majesty, she added more unselfishly: "Poor boy! It is dreadful to think of him being out
in it." She saw a bolt of lightning strike in the distance, and she waited breathlessly for
the thunder. It was a fearful crash, and it made her blood run faster, and her eyes sparkle.
"My!" she exclaimed. "But it's fine!" And then she added with a laugh, "He can correct his
poem by it, if he wants to!"

She turned to go upstairs. On the way she stopped with a rather conscience-stricken look, and
said to herself, "Poor fellow! It seems a shame to be happy!" She stood for a moment thinking,
but then she added, "Yet I declare, I don't know what to do for him; it surely isn't my fault
if I am not in love with him in that mad fashion, and I don't see why I should make myself
wretched about it!" Having thus silenced her conscience, she went up to unpack her trunks,
humming to herself on the way:

  "Sir Knight, a faithful sister's love
    This heart devotes to thee;
  I pray thee ask no other love,
    For pain that causes me.

  "Quiet would I see thee come,
    And quiet see thee go;
  The silent weeping of thine eyes
    I cannot bear to know."

While she was singing Arthur was in the midst of the tempest, staggering towards his home ten
miles away. He was drenched by the cold rain, and shivering and almost fainting from exhaustion--for
he had eaten nothing since early dawn; yet so wretched and sick at heart was he that he felt
nothing, and scarcely heard the storm or realized where he was.

CHAPTER IV

  "Dosn't thou 'ear my 'erse's legs, as they canters awaay?
  Proputty, proputty, proputty--that's what I 'ears 'em saay.

  But I knawed a Quaaker feller as often 'as towd ma this:
  'Doant thou marry for munny, but goa wheer munny is!'"

Helen had much to do to keep her busy during the next few days. She had in the first place
to receive visits from nearly everybody in Oakdale, for she was a general favorite in the town,
and besides that everyone was curious to see what effect the trip had had upon her beauty and
accomplishments. Then too, she had the unpacking of an incredible number of trunks; it was
true that Helen, having been a favored boarder at an aristocratic seminary, was not in the
habit of doing anything troublesome herself, but she considered it necessary to superintend
the servant. Last of all there was a great event at the house of her aunt, Mrs. Roberts, to
be anticipated and prepared for.

It has been said that the marriage of Mr. Davis had been a second romance in that worthy man's
career, he having had the fortune to win the love of a daughter of a very wealthy family which
lived near Oakdale. The parents had of course been bitterly opposed to the match, but the girl
had had her way. Unfortunately, however, the lovers, or at any rate the bride, having been
without any real idea of duty or sacrifice, the match had proved one of those that serve to
justify the opinions of people who are "sensible;" the young wife, wearying of the lot she
had chosen, had sunk into a state of peevish discontent from which death came to relieve her.

Of this prodigal daughter Aunt Polly was the elder, and wiser, sister. She had never ceased
to urge upon the other, both before and after marriage, the folly of her conduct, and had lived
herself to be a proof of her own more excellent sense, having married a wealthy stockbroker
who proved a good investment, trebling his own capital and hers in a few years. Aunt Polly
therefore had a fine home upon Madison Avenue in New York, and a most aristocratic country-seat
a few miles from Oakdale, together with the privilege of frequenting the best society in New
York, and of choosing her friends amongst the most wealthy in the neighborhood of the little
town. This superiority to her erring sister had probably been one of the causes that had contributed
to develop the most prominent trait in her character--which is perhaps the most prominent trait
of high society in general--a complete satisfaction with the world she knew, and what she knew
about it, and the part she played in it. For the rest, Aunt Polly was one of those bustling
little women who rule the world in almost everything, because the world finds it is too much
trouble to oppose them. She had assumed, and had generally succeeded in having recognized,
a complete superiority to Mr. Davis in her knowledge about life, with the result that, as has
been stated, the education of the one child of the unfortunate marriage had been managed by her.

When, therefore, Helen had come off the steamer, it had been Mrs. Roberts who was there to
meet her; and the arrangement announced was that the girl was to have three days to spend with
her father, and was then to come for a week or two at her aunt's, who was just opening her
country home and who intended to invite a score of people whom she considered, for reasons
of her own, proper persons for her niece to meet. Mrs. Roberts spoke very condescendingly indeed
of the company which Helen met at her father's, Mr. Davis having his own opinions about the
duty of a clergyman toward the non-aristocratic members of his flock.

The arrangement, it is scarcely necessary to say, pleased Helen very much indeed; the atmosphere
of luxury and easy superiority which she found at her aunt's was much to her taste, and she
looked forward to being a center of attraction there with the keenest delight. In the meantime,
however, she slaked her thirst for happiness just as well at Oakdale, accepting with queenly
grace the homage of all who came to lay their presents at her feet. Sunday proved to be a day
of triumph, for all the town had come to church, and was as much stirred by the glory of her
singing as Arthur had predicted. After the service everyone waited to tell her about it, and
so she was radiant indeed.

By Tuesday, however, all that had come to seem a trifling matter, for that afternoon Aunt Polly
was to come, and a new world was to be opened for her conquest. Helen was amusing herself by
sorting out the motley collection of souvenirs and curios which she had brought home to decorate
her room, when she heard a carriage drive up at the door, and a minute later heard the voice
of Mrs. Roberts' footman in the hall.

Mrs. Roberts herself did not alight, and Helen kept her waiting only long enough to slip on
her hat, and to bid her father a hurried farewell. In a minute more she was in the carriage,
and was being borne in state down the main street of Oakdale.

"You are beautiful to-day, my dear," said her aunt, beaming upon her; "I hope you are all ready
for your triumph."

"I think so," said Helen. "I've about seen everybody and everything I wanted to at home; I've
been wonderfully happy, Auntie."

"That is right, my dear," said Aunt Polly. "You have certainly every cause to be, and you would
be foolish not to make the most of it. But I should think this town would seem a somewhat less
important place to you, after all that you have seen of the world."

"Yes, it does a little," laughed Helen, "but it seemed good to see all the old people again."

"Someone told me they saw Arthur here on Saturday," said the other. "Did you see him?"

"Oh, yes," said Helen; "that's what he came for. You can fancy how glad I was to meet him.
I spent a couple of hours walking in the woods with him."

Mrs. Roberts' look of dismay may be imagined; it was far too great for her to hide.

"Where is he now?" she asked, hastily.

"Oh, he has gone home," said Helen; and she added, smiling, "he went on Saturday afternoon,
because he's writing a poem about thunderstorms, and he wanted to study that one."

The other was sufficiently convinced of the irresponsibility of poets to be half uncertain
whether Helen was joking or not; it was very frequently difficult to tell, anyway, for Helen
would look serious and amuse herself by watching another person's mystification--a trait of
character which would have been intolerable in anyone less fascinating than she.

Perhaps Aunt Polly thought something of that as she sat and watched the girl. Aunt Polly was
a little woman who looked as if she herself might have once made some pretense to being a belle,
but she was very humble before Helen. "My dear," she said, "every minute that I watch you,
I am astonished to see how wonderfully you have grown. Do you know, Helen, you are glorious!"

"Yes," said Helen, smiling delightedly. "Isn't it nice, Aunt Polly? I'm so glad I'm beautiful."

"You funny child," laughed the other. "What a queer thing to say!"

"Am I not to know I am beautiful?" inquired Helen, looking at her with open eyes. "Why, dear
me! I can look at myself in the glass and be just as happy as anyone else; I love everything
beautiful."

Aunt Polly beamed upon her. "I am glad of it, my dear," she laughed. "I only wish I could say
something to you to make you realize what your wonderful beauty means."

"How, Aunt Polly?" asked the girl. "Have you been reading poetry?"

"No," said the other, "not exactly; but you know very well in your heart what hopes I have
for you, Helen, and I only wish you could appreciate the gift that has been given you, and
not fling it away in any foolish fashion. With your talents and your education, my dear, there
is almost nothing that you might not do."

"Yes," said Helen, with all of her seriousness, "I often think of it; perhaps, Auntie, I might
become a poetess!"

The other looked aghast. Helen had seen the look on her aunt's face at the mention of her walk
with Arthur, and being a young lady of electrical wit, had understood just what it meant, and
just how the rest of the conversation was intended to bear upon the matter; with that advantage
she was quite in her glory.

"No, indeed, Aunt Polly," she said, "you can never tell; just suppose, for instance, I were
to fall in love with and marry a man of wonderful genius, who would help me to devote myself
to art? It would not make any difference, you know, if he were poor--we could struggle and
help each other. And oh, I tell you, if I were to meet such a man, and to know that he loved
me truly, and to have proof that he could remember me and be true to me, even when I was far
away, oh, I tell you, nothing could ever keep me--"

Helen was declaiming her glowing speech with real fervor, her hands dramatically outstretched.
But she could not get any further, for the look of utter horror upon her auditor's face was
too much for her; she dropped her hands and made the air echo with her laughter.

"Oh, Aunt Polly, you goose!" she cried, flinging one arm about her, "have you really forgotten
me that much in three years?"

The other was so relieved at the happy denouement of that fearful tragedy that she could only
protest, "Helen, Helen, why do you fool me so?"

"Because you fool me, or try to," said Helen. "When you have a sermon to preach on the impropriety
of walking in the woods alone with a susceptible young poet, I wish you'd mount formally into
the pulpit and begin with the text."

"My dear," laughed the other, "you are too quick; but I must confess--"

"Of course you must," said the girl; and she folded her hands meekly and looked grave. "And
now I am ready; and if you meet with any difficulties in the course of your sermon, I've an
expert at home who has preached one hundred and four every year for twenty years, all genuine
and no two alike."

"Helen," said the other, "I do wish you would talk seriously with me. You are old enough to
be your own mistress now, and to do as you please, but you ought to realize that I have seen
the world more than you, and that my advice is worth something."

"Tell it to me," said Helen, ceasing to laugh, and leaning back in the carriage and gazing
at her aunt. "What do you want me to do, now that I am home? I will be really serious if you
wish me to, for that does interest me. I suppose that my education is finished?"

"Yes," said the other, "it ought to be, certainly; you have had every advantage that a girl
can have, a great deal more than I ever had. And you owe it all to me, Helen,--you do, really;
if it hadn't been for my insisting you'd have gotten all your education at Hilltown, and you'd
have played the piano and sung like Mary Nelson across the way."

Helen shuddered, and felt that that was cause indeed for gratitude.

"It is true," said her aunt; "I've taken as much interest in you as in any one of my own children,
and you must know it. It was for no reason at all but that I saw what a wonderful woman you
promised to become, and I was anxious to help you to the social position that I thought you
ought to have. And now, Helen, the chance is yours if you care to take it."

"I am taking it, am I not?" asked Helen; "I'm going with you, and I shall be just as charming
as I can."

"Yes, I know," said the other, smiling a little; "but that is not exactly what I mean."

"What do you mean?"

"Of course, my dear, you may enter good society a while by visiting me; but that will not be
permanently. You will have to marry into it, Helen dear."

"Marry!" echoed the girl, taken aback. "Dear me!"

"You will wish to marry some time," said the other, "and so you should look forward to it and
choose your course. With your charms, Helen, there is almost nothing that you might not hope
for; you must know yourself that you could make any man fall in love with you that you wished.
And you ought to know also that if you only had wealth you could enter any society; for you
have good birth, and you will discover that you have more knowledge and more wit than most
of the people you meet."

"I've discovered that already," said Helen, laughing.

"All that you must do, my love," went on the other, "is to realize what is before you, and
make up your mind to what you want. You know that your tastes are not those of a poor woman;
you have been accustomed to comfort, and you need refinement and wealth; you could never be
happy unless you could entertain your friends properly, and live as you pleased."

"But I don't want to marry a man just for his money," protested the girl, not altogether pleased
with her aunt's business-like view.

"No one wants you to," the other responded; "you may marry for love if you like; but it is
not impossible to love a rich man, is it, Helen?"

"But, Aunt Polly," said Helen, "I am satisfied as I am now. I do not want to marry anybody.
The very idea makes me shudder."

"I am not in the least anxious that you should," was the answer. "You are young, and you may
choose your own time. All I am anxious for is that you should realize the future that is before
you. It is dreadful to me to think that you might throw your precious chance away by some ridiculous
folly."

Helen looked at her aunt for a moment, and then the irrepressible smile broke out.

"What is the matter, child?" asked the other.

"Nothing, except that I was thinking about how these thoughts were brought up."

"How do you mean?"

"Apropos of my woodland walk with poor Arthur. Auntie, I do believe you're afraid I'm going
to fall in love with the dear fellow."

"No," said Aunt Polly; "it is not exactly that, for I'd never be able to sleep at night if
I thought you capable of anything quite so ghastly. But we must have some care of what people
will think, my dear Helen."

As a matter of fact, Aunt Polly did have some very serious fears about the matter, as has been
hinted before; it was, perhaps, a kind of tribute to the divine fire which even society's leaders
pay. If it had been a question of a person of her own sense and experience, the word "genius"
would have suggested no danger to Mrs. Roberts, but it was different with a young and probably
sentimental person like Helen, with her inflaming beauty.

"As a matter of fact, Aunt Polly," said Helen, "everybody understands my intimacy with Arthur."

"Tell me, Helen dear," said the other, turning her keen glance upon her; "tell me the honest
truth."

"About what?"

"You are not in love with Arthur?"

And Helen answered her with her eyes very wide open: "No, I certainly am not in the least."

And the other drew secretly a great breath of relief. "Is he in love with you, Helen?" she asked.

As Helen thought of Arthur's departure, the question could not but bring a smile. "I--I'm afraid
he is," she said.--"a very little."

"What a ridiculous impertinence!" exclaimed the other, indignantly.

"Oh, that's all right, Auntie," said Helen; "he really can't help it, you know." She paused
for a moment, and then she went on: "Such things used to puzzle me when I was very young, and
I used to think them quite exciting; but I'm getting used to them now. All the men seem to
fall in love with me,--they do, honestly, and I don't know how in the world to help it. They
all will make themselves wretched, and I'm sure it isn't my fault. I haven't told you anything
about my German lovers, have I, Auntie?"

"Gracious, no!" said the other; "were there any?"

"Any?" laughed the girl. "I might have robbed the Emperor of a whole colonel's staff, and the
colonel at the head of it. But I'll tell you about Johann, the funniest one of all; I think
he really loved me more than all the rest."

"Pray, who was Johann?" asked Aunt Polly, thinking how fortunate it was that she learned of
these things only after the danger was over.

"I never will forget the first time I met him," laughed the girl, "the first day I went to
the school. Johann was a little boy who opened the door for me, and he stared at me as if he
were in a trance; he had the most wonderful round eyes, and puffy red cheeks that made me always
think I'd happened to ring the bell while he was eating; and every time after that he saw me
for three years he used to gaze at me in the same helpless wonder, with all lingers of his
fat little hands wide apart."

"What a disagreeable wretch!" said the other.

"Not in the least," laughed Helen; "I liked him. But the funniest part came afterwards, for
when I came away Johann had grown a whole foot, and was quite a man. I sent for him to put
the straps on my trunks, and guess what he did! He stared at me for a minute, just the same
as ever, and then he ran out of the room, blubbering like a baby; and that's the last I ever
saw of him."

Helen was laughing as she told the story, but then she stopped and looked a little conscience-stricken.
"Do you know, Aunt Polly," she said, "it is really a dreadful thing to make people unhappy
like that; I suppose poor Johann had spent three whole years dreaming about the enchanted castle
in which I was to be fairy princess."

"It was a good chance for a romantic marriage," said the other.

"Yes," said the girl, laughing again; "I tried to fancy it. He'd have kept a Wirthshaus, I
suppose, and I'd have served the guests; and Arthur might have come, and I'd have cut Butterbrod
for him and he could have been my Werther! Wouldn't Arthur have made a fine Werther, though,
Aunt Polly?"

"And blown his brains out afterwards," added the other.

"No," said Helen, "brains are too scarce; I'd rather have him follow Goethe's example and write
a book about it instead. You know I don't believe half the things these poets tell you, for
I think they put themselves through their dreadful experiences just to tell about them and
make themselves famous. Don't you believe that, Auntie?"

"I don't know," said the other (a statement which she seldom made). "I don't know much about
such things. Nobody reads poetry any more, you know, Helen, and it doesn't really help one
along very much."

"It doesn't do any harm, does it?" inquired the girl, smiling to herself, "just a little, once
in a while?"

"Oh, no, of course not," said the other; "I believe that a woman ought to have a broad education,
for she never knows what may be the whims of the men she meets, or what turn a conversation
may take. All I'm afraid of, Helen, is that if you fill your mind with sentimental ideas you
might be so silly as to fancy that you were doing something romantic in throwing your one great
chance away upon some worthless nobody. I want you to realize what you are, Helen, and that
you owe something to yourself, and to your family, too; for the Roberts have always had wealth
and position until your mother chose to marry a poor man. What I warn you of now is exactly
what I warned her of. Your father is a good man, but he had absolutely nothing to make your
mother happy; she was cut off from everything she had been used to,--she could not even keep
a carriage. And of course she could not receive her old friends, very few of them cared to
have anything more to do with her, and so she simply pined away in discontentment and miserable
poverty. You have had an easy life, Helen, and you have no idea of what a horrible thing it
is to be poor; you have had the best of teachers, and you have lived at an expensive school,
and of course you have always had me to rely upon to introduce you to the right people; but
if you married a poor man you couldn't expect to keep any of those advantages. I don't speak
of your marrying a man who had no money at all, for that would be too fearful to talk about;
but suppose you were to take any one of the young men you might meet at Oakdale even, you'd
have to live in a mean little house, and do with one or two servants, and worry yourself about
the butcher's bills and brush your own dresses and drive your own horse. And how long do you
suppose it would be before you repented of that? Think of having to be like those poor Masons,
for instance; they are nice people, and I like them, but I hate to go there, for every time
I can't help seeing that the parlor furniture is more dingy, and thinking how miserable they
must be, not to be able to buy new things. And their servants' liveries are half worn too;
and when you dine there you see that Mrs. Mason is eating with a plated fork, because she has
not enough of her best silver to go around. All those things are trifles, Helen, but think
of the worry they must give those poor people, who are pinching themselves and wearing themselves
out soul and body, trying to keep in the station where they belong, or used to. Poor Mrs. Mason
is pale and nervous and wrinkled at forty, and those three poor girls, who spend their time
making over their old dresses, are so dowdy- looking and uneasy that no man ever glances at
them twice. It is such misery as that which I dread for you, Helen, and why I am talking to
you. There is no reason why you should take upon you such sorrows; you have a clear head, and
you can think for yourself and make up your mind about things if you only won't blind yourself
by foolish sentimentality. You have been brought up to a certain station in life, and no man
has a right to offer himself to you unless he can maintain you in that station. There is really
no scarcity of such men, Helen, and you'd have no trouble in finding one. There are hundreds
of men in New York who are worth millions, and who would fling themselves and their wealth
at your feet if you would have them. And you would find such a difference between the opportunities
of pleasure and command that such a chance would give you and the narrow life that you lead
in this little town that you would wonder how you could ever have been satisfied. It is difficult
for you to realize what I mean, my dear, because you have only a schoolgirl's knowledge of
life and its pleasures, but when you are in the world, and have learned what power is, and
what it means to possess such beauty as yours, you will feel your heart swelling with a new
pleasure, and you will thank me for what I tell you. I have figured a wonderful triumph for
you, Helen, and it is time you knew what is before you. Of what use is your beauty, if you
do not carry it into a wide enough sphere, where it can bring you the admiration and homage
you deserve? You need such a field, Helen, to discover your own powers in; believe me, my dear,
there is really a higher ambition in the world than to be a country clergyman's daughter."

"Is there any higher than being happy, Auntie?" asked Helen.

The importance of that observation was beyond the other's ken, as indeed it was beyond Helen's
also; she had thrown it out as a chance remark.

"Mr. Roberts and I were talking about this last night," went on Aunt Polly, "and he told me
that I ought to talk seriously to you about it, and get you to realize what a golden future
is before you. For it is really true, Helen, as sure as you can trust what I know about the
world, that you can have absolutely anything that you want. That is the long and short of the
matter--anything that you want! And why should you not have the very best that life can give
you? Why should you have to know that other people dwell in finer houses than yours, and are
free from cares that make you ill? Why should you have the humiliation of being looked down
upon and scorned by other people? Are these other people more entitled to luxury than you,
or more able to enjoy it; or could anyone do it more honor than you? You are beautiful beyond
telling; you have every gift that a woman can ask to complete enjoyment of life; you are perfect,
Helen, you are really perfect! You must know that; you must say it to yourself when you are
alone, and know that your life ought to be a queenly triumph. You have only to stretch out
your arms and everything will come to you; and there is really and truly no end to the happiness
you can taste."

Helen was gazing at the other with real earnestness, and the words were sinking deep into her
soul, deeper than words generally sunk there. She felt her cheeks burning, and her frame stirred
by a new emotion; she had seldom before thought of anything but the happiness of the hour.

"Just think of it, my love," continued Mrs. Roberts, "and know that that is what your old auntie
was thinking of when you were only a little tiny girl, sitting upon her knee, and when you
were so beautiful that artists used to beg to have you pose for them. I never said anything
about it then, because you were too young to understand these things; but now that you are
to manage yourself, I have been waiting for a chance to tell you, so that you may see what
a prize is yours if you are only wise. And if you wonder why I have cared so much and thought
so much of what might be yours, the only reason I can give is that you are my niece, and that
I felt that any triumph you might win would be mine. I want you to win a higher place in the
world than mine, Helen; I never had such a gift as yours."

Helen was silent for a minute, deeply thoughtful.

"Tell me, Auntie," she asked, "and is it really true, then, that a woman is to train herself
and grow beautiful and to have so much trouble and money spent upon her--only for her marriage?"

"Why of course, Helen; what else can a woman do? Unless you have money and a husband you cannot
possibly hope to accomplish anything in society. With your talents and your beauty you might
go anywhere and rule anywhere, but you have to have money before you can even begin."

"But where am I to meet such a rich man, Aunt Polly?" asked Helen.

"You know perfectly well where. Do you suppose that after I have worried myself about you all
this time I mean to desert you now, when you are at the very climax of your glory, when you
are all that I ever dared dream of? My dear Helen, I am more interested in you just now than
in anything else in the world. I feel as a card player feels when millions are at stake, and
when he knows that he holds the perfect hand."

"That is very nice," said Helen, laughing nervously. "But there is always a chance of mistake."

"There is none this time, Helen, for I am an old player, and I have been picking and arranging
my hand for long, long years; and you are the hand, my love, and the greatest glory of it all
must be yours."

Helen's heart was throbbing still faster with excitement, as if she were already tasting the
wonderful triumph that was before her; her aunt was watching her closely, noting how the blood
was mounting to her bright cheeks. The girl felt herself suddenly choking with her pent up
excitement, and she stretched out her arms with a strange laugh.

"Auntie," she said, "you tell me too much at once."

The other had been marshaling her forces like a general during the last few minutes, and she
felt just then as if there were nothing left but the rout. "All that I tell you, you may see
for yourself," she said. "I don't ask you to take anything on my word, for you have only to
look in the glass and compare yourself with the women you meet. You will find that all men
will turn their eyes upon you when you enter a room."

Helen did not consider it necessary to debate that question. "You have invited some rich man
to meet me at your house?" she asked.

"I was going to say nothing to you about it at first," said the other, "and let you find out.
But I thought afterwards that it would be better to tell you, so that you could manage for
yourself. I have invited all the men whom Mr. Roberts and I thought it would be best for you
to meet."

Helen gazed at her aunt silently for a moment, and then she broke into a nervous laugh. "A
regular exposition!" she said; "and you'll bring them out one by one and put them through their
paces, won't you, Auntie? And have them labeled for comparison,--so that I can tell just what
stocks they own and how they stand on the 'Street'! Do you remember the suitor in Moliere?--'J'ai
quinze mille livres de rente; j'ai le corps sain; j'ai des beaux dents!'"

It was a flash of Helen's old merriment, but it did not seem so natural as usual, even to her.
She forced herself to laugh, for she was growing more and more excited and uneasy.

"My dear," said Aunt Polly, "please do not begin making fun again."

"But you must let me joke a little, Auntie," said the girl. "I have never been serious for
so long before."

"You ought to be serious about it, my dear."

"I will," said Helen. "I have really listened attentively; you must tell me all about these
rich men that I am to meet, and what I am to do. I hope I am not the only girl."

"Of course not," was the response; "I would not do anything ridiculous. I have invited a number
of other girls--but they won't trouble you in the least."

"No," said Helen. "I am not afraid of other girls; but what's to be done? It's a sort of house-warming,
I suppose?"

"Yes," was the reply, "I suppose so, for I only came down last week myself. I have asked about
twenty people for a week or two; they all know each other, more or less, so there won't be
much formality. We shall amuse ourselves with coaching and golf, and anything else we please;
and of course there will be plenty of music in the evening."

Helen smiled at the significant tone of her aunt's voice. "Are the people there now?" she asked.

"Those who live anywhere in the neighborhood are; most of the men will be down on the afternoon
train, in time for dinner."

"And tell me who are the men, Auntie?"

"I'm afraid I won't have time," said Mrs. Roberts, glancing out of the carriage. "We are too
near home. But I will tell you about one of them, if you like."

"The king-bee?" laughed Helen. "Is there a king-bee?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Roberts; "there is. At any rate, my husband and I think he is, and we are
anxious to see what you think. His name is Gerald Harrison, and he comes from Cincinnati."

"Oh, dear," said Helen, "I hate to meet men from the West. He must be a pork-packer, or something
horrible."

"No," said the other, "he is a railroad president."

"And why do you think he's the king-bee; is he very rich?"

"He is worth about ten million dollars," said Aunt Polly.

Helen gazed at her wildly. "Ten million dollars!" she gasped.

"Yes," said the other; "about that, probably a little more. Mr. Roberts knows all about his
affairs."

Helen was staring into her aunt's face. "Tell me," she asked, very nervously indeed. "Tell
me, honestly!"

"What?"

"Is that the man you are bringing me here to meet?"

"Yes, Helen," said the other quietly.

The girl's hands were clasped tightly together just then. "Aunt Polly," she asked, "what kind
of a man is he? I will not marry a bad man!"

"A bad man, child? How ridiculous! Do you suppose I would ask you to marry a bad man, if he
owned all New York? I want you to be happy. Mr. Harrison is a man who has made his own fortune,
and he is a man of tremendous energy. Everyone is obliged to respect him."

"But he must be old, Auntie."

"He is very young, Helen, only about forty."

"Dear me," said the girl, "I could never marry a man as old as forty; and then, I'd have to
go out West!"

"Mr. Harrison has come to New York to live," was the other's reply. "He has just bought a really
magnificent country seat about ten miles from here--the old Everson place, if you remember
it; and he is negotiating for a house near ours in the city. My husband and I both agreed,
Helen, that if you could make Mr. Harrison fall in love with you it would be all that we could
desire."

"That is not the real problem," Helen said, gazing out of the carriage with a frightened look
upon her face; "it is whether I can fall in love with him. Aunt Polly, it is dreadful to me
to think of marrying; I don't want to marry! I don't care who the man is!"

"We'll see about that later on," said the other, smiling reassuringly, and at the same time
putting her arm about the girl; "there is no hurry, my love, and no one has the least thought
of asking you to do what you do not want to do. But a chance like this does not come often
to any girl, my dear. Mr. Harrison is in every way a desirable man."

"But he's stupid, Aunt Polly, I know he's stupid! All self-made men are; they tell you about
how they made themselves, and what wonderful things they hare made!"

"You must of course not expect to find Mr. Harrison as cultured as yourself, Helen," was the
reply; "his education has been that of the world, and not of books. But nobody thinks less
of a man for that in the world; the most one can ask is that he does not make pretenses. And
he is very far from stupid, I assure you, or he would not have been what he is."

"I suppose not," said Helen, weakly.

"And, besides," observed Aunt Polly, laughing to cheer the girl up, "I assure you it doesn't
make any difference. My husband makes no pretense to being a wit, or a musician, or anything
like that; he's just a plain, sensible man, but we get along as happily as you could wish.
We each of us go our own way, and understand each other perfectly."

"So I'm to marry a plain, sensible man?" asked the girl, apparently not much comforted by the
observation.

"A plain, sensible man with ten million dollars, my dear," said Aunt Polly, "who adores you
and has nothing to do with his money but to let you make yourself happy and glorious with it?
But don't worry yourself, my child, because the first thing for you to feel is that if you
don't like him you need not take him. It all rests upon you; he won't be here till after the
rest, till the evening train, so you can have time to think it over and calculate whether ten
million dollars will buy anything you want." And Mrs. Roberts laughed.

Then the carriage having passed within the gates of her home, she kissed the girl upon her
cheek. "By the way," she added, "if you want to meet a romantic person to offset Mr. Harrison,
I'll tell you about Mr. Howard. I haven't mentioned him, have I?"

"I never heard of him," said Helen.

"It's a real romance," said the other. "You didn't suppose that your sensible old auntie could
have a romance, did you?"

"Tell me about it," laughed Helen.

The carriage was driving up the broad avenue that led to the Roberts house; it was a drive
of a minute or two, however, and so Aunt Polly had time for a hasty explanation.

"It was over twenty years ago," she said, "before your mother was married, and when our family
had a camp up in the Adirondacks; there were only two others near us, and in each of them there
was a young man about my age. We three were great friends for three or four years, but we've
never seen each other since till a short while ago."

"And one of them is this man?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Roberts; "his name is David Howard; I met him quite by accident the other
day, and recognized him. He lives all alone, in the winter in New York somewheres, and in the
summer up at the same place in the mountains; he's the most romantic man you ever met, and
I know you'll find him interesting. He's a poet, I fancy, or a musician at any rate, and he's
a very great scholar."

"Is he rich too?" asked the girl, laughing.

"I fancy not," was the reply, "but I can't tell; he lives very plainly."

"Aren't you afraid I'll fall in love with him, Auntie?"

"No," said the other, smiling to herself; "I'm not worrying about that."

"Why not?"

"Wait till you see him, my dear," was the reply; "if you choose him for a husband I'll give
my consent."

"That sounds mysterious," observed the girl, gazing at her aunt; "tell me, is he here now?"

"Yes," said Aunt Polly; "he's been here a day or two; but I don't think you'll see him at dinner,
because he has been feeling unwell today; he may be down a while this evening, for I've been
telling him about you, and he's anxious to see you. You must be nice to him, Helen, and try
to feel as sorry for him as I do."

"Sorry for him?" echoed the girl with a start.

"Yes, my dear, he is an invalid, with some very dreadful affliction."

And Helen stared at her aunt. "An affliction!" she cried. "Aunt Polly, that is horrible! What
in the world did you invite an invalid for at this time, with all the other people? I hate
invalids!"

"I had asked him before," was the apologetic reply, "and so I couldn't help it. I had great
difficulty in getting him to promise to come anyway, for he's a very strange, solitary man.
But I wanted to have my little romance, and renew our acquaintance, and this was the only time
the third party could come."

"Oh, the third one is here too?"

"He will be in a day or two."

"Who is he?"

"His name is Lieutenant Maynard, and he's in the navy; he's stationed at Brooklyn just now,
but he expects to get leave for a while."

"That is a little better," Helen remarked, as the carriage was drawing up in front of the great
house. "I'd marry a naval officer."

"No," laughed Aunt Polly; "he leaves a wife and some children in Brooklyn. We three are going
to keep to ourselves and talk about old times and what has happened to us since then, and so
you young folks will not be troubled by us."

"I hope you will," said the other, "for I can't ever be happy with invalids."

And there, as the carriage door was opened, the conversation ended abruptly. When Helen had
sprung out she found that there were six or eight people upon the piazza, to whom the excitement
of being introduced drove from her mind for a time all thoughts which her aunt's words had brought.

CHAPTER V

  "If chance will have me king, why chance may crown me,
    Without my stir."

Most of the people whom Helen met upon her arrival were of her own sex, so that she did not
feel called upon to make special exertions to please them; but she was naturally cheerful and
happy with everyone, and the other matters of which Mrs. Roberts had talked took on such vast
proportions before her mind that it was a relief to her to put them aside and enjoy herself
for a while in her usual way. Helen was glad that most of the men were to arrive later, so
that she might make her appearance before them under the most favorable circumstances. When
she heard the distant whistle of the afternoon train a couple of hours later, it was with that
thought that she retired to her room to rest before dressing.

Aunt Polly, following her plan of accustoming the girl to a proper style of living, had engaged
a maid to attend her during her stay; and Helen found therefore that her trunks were unpacked
and everything in order. It was a great relief to her to be rid of all care, and she took off
her dress and flung herself down upon the bed to think.

Helen had imbided during her Sunday-school days the usual formulas of dogmatic religion, but
upon matters of morality her ideas were of the vaguest possible description. The guide of her
life had always been her instinct for happiness, her "genial sense of youth." She had never
formulated any rule of life to herself, but that which she sought was joy, primarily for herself,
and incidentally for other people, because unhappy people were disturbing (unless it were possible
to avoid them). In debating within herself the arguments which her aunt had brought before
her mind, it was that principle chiefly by which she tested them.

To the girl's eager nature, keenly sensitive to pleasure and greedy for it, the prospect so
suddenly flung wide before her eyes was so intoxicating that again and again as she thought
of it it made her tremble and burn. So far as Helen could see at that moment, a marriage with
this Mr. Harrison would mean the command of every source of happiness; and upon a scale so
magnificent, so belittling of everything she had known before, that she shrank from it as something
impossible and unnatural. Again and again she buried her heated brow in her hands and muttered:
"I ought to have known it before! I ought to have had time to realize it."

That which restrained the girl from welcoming such an opportunity, from clasping it to her
in ecstasy and flinging herself madly into the whirl of pleasure it held out, was not so much
her conscience and the ideals which she had formed more or less vaguely from the novels and
poems she had read, as the instinct of her maidenhood, which made her shrink from the thought
of marriage with a man whom she did not love. So strong was this feeling in her that at first
she felt that she could not even bear to be introduced to him with such an idea in her mind.

It was Aunt Polly's wisdom and diplomacy which finally overcame her scruples enough to persuade
her to that first step; Helen kept thinking of her aunt's words--that no one wanted to compel
her to marry the man, that she might do just as she chose. She argued that it was foolish to
worry herself, or to be ill at ease. She might see what sort of a man he was; if he fell in
love with her it would do no harm,--Helen was not long in discovering by the increased pace
of her pulses that she would find it exciting to have everyone know that a multimillionaire
was in love with her. "As for the rest," she said to herself, "we'll see when the time comes,"
and knew not that one who goes to front his life's temptation with that resolution is a mariner
who leaves the steering of his vessel to the tempest.

She had stilled her objection by such arguments, and was just beginning to feel the excitement
of the prospect once more, when the maid knocked at the door and asked to know if mademoiselle
were ready to dress for dinner. And mademoiselle arose and bathed her face and arms and was
once more her old refreshed and rejoicing self, ready for that mysterious and wonderful process
which was to send her out an hour or two later a vision of perfectness, compounded of the hues
of the rose and the odors of evening, with the new and unutterable magic that is all the woman's
own. Besides the prospects her aunt had spoken of, there were reasons enough why Helen should
be radiant, for it was her first recognized appearance in high society; and so she sat in front
of the tall mirror and criticised every detail of the coiffure which the maid prepared, and
eyed by turns her gleaming neck and shoulders and the wonderful dress, as yet unworn, which
shone from the bed through its covering of tissue paper; and was all the time so filled with
joy and delight that it was a pleasure to be near her. Soon Aunt Polly, clad in plain black
as a sign that she retired in favor of Helen, came in to assist and superintend the toilet.
So serious at the task, and so filled with a sense of its importance and the issues that were
staked upon it was she and the maid also, that one would not dare think of the humor of the
situation if Helen herself had not broken the spell by declaring that she felt like an Ashantee
warrior being decked out for battle with plumes and war paint, or like Rinaldo, or Amadis donning
his armor.

And Helen was in fact going to war, a war for which nature has been training woman since the
first fig-tree grew. She carried a bow strong as the one of Ulysses, which no man could draw,
and an arrow sharp as the sunbeam and armed with a barb; for a helmet, beside her treasure
of golden hair, she wore one rose, set there with the art that conceals art, so that it was
no longer a red rose, but one more bright perfection that had come to ripeness about the glowing
maiden. Her dress was of the same color, a color which when worn upon a woman is a challenge,
crying abroad that here is perfection beyond envy and beyond praise.

When the last touch was finished and Helen gazed upon herself, with her bare shoulders and
arms and her throat so soft and white, she knew that she was, compared to all about her, a
vision from another world. Chiefest of all, she knew that neither arms and shoulders, nor robe,
nor gleaming hair, would ever be thought of when once the face that smiled upon her with its
serene perfectness had caught the eye; she knew that as usual, men must start when they saw
her, and never take their eyes from her. The thought filled her with an exulting consciousness
of power, and reared her form with a new dignity, and made her chest heave and her cheeks burn
with yet a new beauty.

When everything was ready, Aunt Polly's husband was called in to gaze upon her. A little man
was Aunt Polly's husband, with black side whiskers and a head partly bald; a most quiet and
unobtrusive person, looking just what he had been represented,--a "plain, sensible man," who
attended to his half of the family affairs, and left the other half to his wife. He gazed upon
Helen and blinked once or twice, as if blinded by so much beauty, and then took the end of
her fingers very lightly in his and pronounced her "absolutely perfect." "And, my dear," he
added, "it's after seven, so perhaps we'd best descend."

So he led the girl down to her triumph, to the handsome parlors of the house where eight or
ten men were strolling about. It was quite exciting to Helen to meet them, for they were all
strangers, and Aunt Polly had apparently considered Mr. Harrison of so much importance that
she had said nothing about the others, leaving her niece at liberty to make what speculations
she pleased.

It was a brilliant company which was seated in the dining room a short while later. As it was
assembled in Helen's honor, Aunt Polly had taken care to bring those who would please the girl,
and represent high life and luxury at its best; all of the guests were young, and therefore
perfect. The members of the "smart set," when they have passed the third decade, are apt to
show signs of weariness; a little of their beauty and health is gone, and some of their animation,
and all of their joy,--so that one may be led to ask himself if there be not really something
wrong about their views and ways of living. When they are young, however, they represent the
possibilities of the human animal in all things external. In some wonderful way known only
to themselves they have managed to manipulate the laws of men so as to make men do for them
all the hard and painful tasks of life, so that they have no care but to make themselves as
beautiful and as clever and as generally excellent as selfishness can be. Helen, of course,
was not in the least troubled about the selfishness, and she was quite satisfied with externals.
She saw about her perfect toilets and perfect manners; she saw everyone as happy as she liked
everyone to be; and the result was that her spirits took fire, and she was clever and fascinating
beyond even herself. She carried everything before her, and performed the real feat of dominating
the table by her beauty and cleveness, without being either presumptuous or vain. Aunt Polly
replied to the delighted looks of her husband at the other end of the table, and the two only
wished that Mr. Harrison had been there then.

As a matter of fact, Helen had forgotten Mr. Harrison entirely, and he did not come back to
her mind until the dinner was almost over, when suddenly she heard the bell ring. It was just
the time that he was due to arrive, and so she knew that she would see him in another half
hour. In the exultation of the present moment all of her hesitation was gone, and she was as
ready to meet him as her aunt could have wished.

When the party rose a few minutes later and went into the parlors again, Helen was the first
to enter, upon the arm of her neighbor. She was thinking of Mr. Harrison; and as she glanced
about her, she could not keep from giving a slight start. Far down at the other end of the
room she had caught sight of the figure of a man, and her first thought had been that it must
be the millionaire. His frail, slender form was more than half concealed by the cushions of
the sofa upon which he was seated, but even so, Helen could discover that he was a slight cripple.

The man rose as the party entered, and Aunt Polly went towards him; she apparently expected
her niece to follow and be introduced to the stranger, but in the meantime the truth had occurred
to Helen, that it must be the Mr. Howard she had been told of; she turned to one side with
her partner, and began remarking the pictures in the room.

When she found opportunity, she glanced over and saw that the man had seated himself on the
sofa and was talking to Mrs. Roberts. He looked, as Helen thought, all the invalid her aunt
had described him to be, for his face was white and very wan, so that it made her shudder.
"Dear me!" she exclaimed to herself, "I don't think such a man ought to go into public." And
she turned resolutely away, and set herself to the task of forgetting him, which she very easily
did.

A merry party was soon gathered about her, rejoicing in the glory of her presence, and listening
to the stories which she told of her adventures in Europe. Helen kept the circle well in hand
that way, and was equally ready when one of the young ladies turned the conversation off upon
French poetry in the hope of eclipsing her. Thus her animation continued without rest until
Mrs. Roberts escorted one of the guests to the piano to sing for them.

"She's keeping me for Mr. Harrison," thought Helen, laughing mischievously to herself; "and
I suppose she's picked out the worst musician first, so as to build up a climax."

It seemed as if that might have been the plan for a fact; the performer sang part of Gluck's
"J'ai perdu mon Eurydice," in strange French, and in a mournful voice which served very well
to display the incompatibility of the melody and the words. As it happened, however, Mistress
Helen heard not a word of the song, for it had scarcely begun before she turned her eyes towards
the doorway and caught sight of a figure that drove all other ideas from her mind. Mr. Harrison
had come at last.

He was a tall, dignified man, and Helen's first feeling was of relief to discover that he was
neither coarse-looking, nor even plain. He had rather too bright a complexion, and rather too
large a sandy mustache, but his clothes fitted him, and he seemed to be at ease as he glanced
about him and waited in the doorway for the young lady at the piano to finish. While the faint
applause was still sounding he entered with Mrs. Roberts, moving slowly across the room. "And
now!" thought Helen, "now for it!"

As she expected, the two came towards her, and Mr. Harrison was presented; Helen, who was on
the watch with all her faculties, decided that he bore that trial tolerably, for while his
admiration of course showed itself, he did not stare, and he was not embarrassed.

"I am a little late, I fear," he said; "have I missed much of the music?"

"No," said Helen, "that was the first selection."

"I am glad of that," said the other.

According to the laws which regulate the drifting of conversation, it was next due that Helen
should ask if he were fond of singing; and then that he should answer that he was very fond
of it, which he did.

"Mrs. Roberts tells me you are a skillful musician," he added; "I trust that I shall hear you?"

Helen of course meant to play, and had devoted some thought to the selection of her program;
therefore she answered: "Possibly; we shall see by and by."

"I am told that you have been studying in Germany," was the next observation. "Do you like
Germany?"

"Very much," said Helen. "Only they made me work very hard at music, and at everything else."

"That is perhaps why you are a good player," said Mr. Harrison.

"You ought to wait until you hear me," the girl replied, following his example of choosing
the most obvious thing to say.

"I fear I am not much of a critic," said the other.

And so the conversation drifted on for several minutes, Mr. Harrison's remarks being so very
uninspiring that his companion could find no way to change the subject to anything worth talking
about.

"Evidently," the girl thought, during a momentary lull, "he has learned all the rules of talking,
and that's why he's at ease. But dear me, what an awful prospect! It would kill me to have
to do this often. But then, to be sure I shan't see him in the day time, and in the evenings
we should not be at home. One doesn't have to be too intimate with one's husband, I suppose.
And then--"

"I think," said Mr. Harrison, "that your aunt is coming to ask you to play."

That was Aunt Polly's mission, for a fact, and Helen was much relieved, for she had found herself
quite helpless to lift the conversation out of the slough of despond into which it had fallen;
she wanted a little time to collect her faculties and think of something clever to start with
again. When in answer to the request of Aunt Polly she arose and went to the piano, the crushed
feeling of course left her, and her serenity returned; for Helen was at home at the piano,
knowing that she could do whatever she chose, and do it without effort. It was a stimulus to
her faculties to perceive that a general hush had fallen upon the room, and that every eye
was upon her; as she sat down, therefore, all her old exultation was back.

She paused a moment to collect herself, and gave one easy glance down the room at the groups
of people. She caught a glimpse as she did so of Mr. Howard, who was still seated upon the
sofa, leaning forward and resting his chin in his hand and fixing his eyes upon her. At another
time the sight of his wan face might perhaps have annoyed the girl, but she was carried beyond
that just then by the excitement of the moment; her glance came back to the piano, and feeling
that everyone was attentive and expectant, she began.

Helen numbered in her repertoire a good many pieces that were hopelessly beyond the technic
of the average salon pianist, and she had chosen the most formidable with which to astonish
her hearers that evening. She had her full share of that pleasure which people get from concerning
themselves with great things: a pleasure which is responsible for much of the reading, and
especially the discussing, of the world's great poets, and which brings forth many lofty sentiments
from the numerous class of persons who combine idealism with vanity. Helen's selection was
the first movement of the "Sonata Appassionata," and she was filled with a pleasing sense of
majesty and importance as she began. She liked the first theme especially because it was striking
and dignified and never failed to attract attention; and in what followed there was room for
every shading of tone, from delicate softness that showed much feeling and sympathy, to stunning
fortissimos that made everyone stare. The girl was relieved of any possible fear by the certainty
that the composition was completely beyond her hearers' understanding, and so she soon lost
herself in her task, and, as her excitement mounted, played with splendid spirit and abandon.
Her calculations proved entirely well made, for when she stopped she received a real ovation,
having genuinely astonished her hearers; and she crossed the room, beaming radiantly upon everyone
and acknowledging their compliments, more assured of triumph than ever before. To cap the climax,
when she reached her seat she found Mr. Harrison betraying completely his profound admiration,
his gaze being riveted upon the glowing girl as she sat down beside him.

"Miss Davis," he said, with evident sincerity, "that was really wonderful!"

"Thank you very much," said Helen, radiantly.

"It was the most splendid piano playing I have ever heard in my life," the other went on. "Pray
what was it that you played--something new?"

"Oh, no," was the answer, "it is very old indeed."

"Ah," said Mr. Harrison, "those old composers were very great men."

"Yes," said Helen, demurely.

"I was astonished to see with what ease you played," the other continued, "and yet so marvelously
fast! That must be a fearfully hard piece of music to play."

"Yes, it is," said Helen; "but it is quite exciting," she added, fanning herself and laughing.

Helen was at the top of her being just then, and in perfect command of things; she had no idea
of letting herself be dragged down into the commonplace again. "I think it's about time I was
fascinating him," she said to herself, and she started in, full of merriment and life. Taking
her last remark as a cue, she told him funny stories about the eccentricities of the sonata's
great composer, how he would storm and rage up and down his room like a madman, and how he
hired a boy to pump water over his head by the hour, in case of emergency.

Mr. Harrison remarked that it was funny how all musicians were such queer chaps, but even that
did not discourage Helen. She rattled on, quite as supremely captivating as she had been at
the dinner table, and as she saw that her companion was yielding to her spell, the color mounted
to her cheeks and her blood flowed faster yet.

It is of the nature of such flame to feed itself, and Helen grew the more exulting as she perceived
her success,--and consequently all the more irresistible. The eyes of the man were soon riveted
upon the gorgeous vision of loveliness before him, and the contagion of the girl's animation
showed itself even in him, for he brightened a little, and was clever enough to startle himself.
It was a new delight and stimulus to Helen to perceive it, and she was soon swept away in much
the same kind of nervous delight as her phantasy with the thunderstorm. The sofa upon which
the two were seated had been somewhat apart from the rest, and so they had nothing to disturb
them. A short half hour fled by, during which Helen's daring animation ruled everything, and
at the end of which Mr. Harrison was quite oblivious to everything about him.

There were others, however, who were watching the affair; the keen-eyed Aunt Polly was comprehending
all with joy, but she was as ever calculating and prudent, and she knew that Helen's monopoly
of Mr. Harrison would soon become unpleasantly conspicuous, especially as she had so far introduced
him to no one else. She felt that little would he lost by breaking the spell, for what the
girl was doing then she might do any time she chose; and so after waiting a while longer she
made her way unobtrusively over to them and joined their conversation.

Helen of course understood her aunt's meaning, and acquiesced; she kept on laughing and talking
for a minute or two more, and then at a lull in the conversation she exclaimed: "But I've been
keeping Mr. Harrison here talking to me, and nobody else has seen anything of him." And so
Mr. Harrison, inwardly anathematizing the rest of the company, was compelled to go through
a long series of handshakings, and finally to be drawn into a group of young persons whose
conversation seemed to him the most inane he had ever heard in his life.

In the meantime someone else was giving a piano selection, one which Helen had never heard,
but which sounded to every one like a finger exercise after her own meteoric flight; the girl
sat half listening to it and half waiting for her aunt to return, which Mrs. Roberts finally
did, beaming with gratitude.

"My love," she whispered, "you are an angel; you have done better than I ever dreamed of!"

And Helen felt her blood give a sudden leap that was not quite pleasant; the surging thoughts
that were in her mind at that moment brought back the nervous trembling she had felt in the
carriage, so that she leaned against the sofa for support.

"Now listen, my dear," the other went swiftly on, perhaps divining the girl's state, "I want
you to do a great favor for me."

"Was not that for you, Auntie?" asked Helen, weakly.

"No, my dear, that was for yourself. But this--"

"What is it?"

"I want you to come and talk to my David Howard a little while."

The girl gave a start, and turned a little paler. "Aunt Polly," she exclaimed, "not now! He
looks so ill, it makes me nervous even to see him."

"But, Helen, my dear, that is nonsense," was the reply. "Mr. Howard is one of the most interesting
men you ever met. He knows more than all the people in this room together, and you will forget
he is an invalid when you have talked to him a while."

Helen was, or wished to think herself, upon the heights of happiness just then, and she shrunk
more than ever from anything that was wretched. "Not now, Aunt Polly," she said, faintly. "Please
wait until--"

"But, my dear," said Aunt Polly, "now is the very time; you will wish to be with Mr. Harrison
again soon. And you must meet Mr. Howard, for that is what he came for."

"I suppose then I'll have to," said Helen, knitting her brows; "I'll stroll over in a minute
or two."

"All right," said the other; "and please try to get acquainted with him, Helen, for I want
you to like him."

"I will do my best," said the girl. "He won't talk about his ailments, will he?"

"No," said the other, laughing, "I fancy not. Talk to him about music--he's a great musician,
you know."

And as her aunt left the room, Helen stole a side glance at the man, who was alone upon the
sofa just then. His chin was still resting in his hand, and he was looking at Helen as before.
As she glanced at him thus he seemed to be all head, or rather all forehead, for his brow was
very high and white, and was set off by heavy black hair.

"He does look interesting," the girl thought, as she forced a smile and walked across the room;
her aunt entered at the same time, as if by accident, and the two approached Mr. Howard. As
he saw them coming he rose, with some effort as Helen noticed, and with a very slight look
of pain; it cost her some resolution to give the man her hand. In a minute or two more, however,
they were seated alone upon the sofa, Aunt Polly having gone off with the remark to Helen that
she had made Mr. Howard promise to talk to her about music, and that they both knew too much
about it for her. "You must tell Helen all about her playing," she added to him, laughingly.

And then Helen, to carry on the conversation, added, "I should be very much pleased if you would."

"I am afraid it is an ungracious task Mrs. Roberts has chosen me," the man answered, smiling.
"Critics are not a popular race."

"It depends upon the critics," said Helen. "They must be sincere."

"That is just where they get into trouble," was the response.

"It looks as if he were going to be chary with his praise," thought Helen, feeling just the
least bit uncomfortable. She thought for a moment, and then said, not without truth, "You pique
my curiosity, Mr. Howard."

"My criticism could not be technical," said the other, smiling, again, "for I am not a pianist."

"You play some other instrument?" asked Helen; afterwards she added, mischievously, "or are
you just a critic?"

"I play the violin," the man answered.

"You are going to play for us this evening?"

"No," said the other, "I fear I shall not."

"Why not?" Helen inquired.

"I have not been feeling very well to-day," was the response. "But I have promised your aunt
to play some evening; we had quite a long dispute."

"You do not like to play in public?" asked Helen.

The question was a perfectly natural one, but it happened unfortunately that as the girl asked
it her glance rested upon the figure of her companion. The man chanced to look at her at the
same instant, and she saw in a flash that her thought had been misread. Helen colored with
the most painful mortification; but Mr. Howard gave, to her surprise, no sign of offense.

"No, not in general," he said, with simple dignity. "I believe that I am much better equipped
as a listener."

Helen had never seen more perfect self-possession than that, and she felt quite humbled.

It would have been difficult to guess the age of the man beside her, but Helen noticed that
his hair was slightly gray. A closer view had only served to strengthen her first impression
of him, that he was all head, and she found herself thinking that if that had been all of him
he might have been handsome, tho in a strange, uncomfortable way. The broad forehead seemed
more prominent than ever, and the dark eyes seemed fairly to shine from beneath it. The rest
of the face, tho wan, was as powerful and massive as the brow, and seemed to Helen, little
used as she was to think of such things, to indicate character as well as suffering.

"It looks a little like Arthur's," she thought.

This she had been noticing in the course of the conversation; then, because her curiosity had
really been piqued, she brought back the original topic again. "You have not told me about
my playing," she smiled, "and I wish for your opinion. I am very vain, you know." (There is
wisdom in avowing a weakness which you wish others to think you do not possess.)

"It gave me great pleasure to watch you," said the man, after a moment.

"To watch me!" thought Helen. "That is a palpable evasion. That is not criticising my music
itself," she said aloud, not showing that she was a trifle annoyed.

"You have evidently been very well taught," said the other,--"unusually well; and you have
a very considerable technic." And Helen was only more uncomfortable than ever; evidently the
man would have liked to add a "but" to that sentence, and the girl felt as if she had come
near an icicle in the course of her evening's triumph. However, she was now still more curious
to hear the rest of his opinion. Half convinced yet that it must be favorable in the end, she said:

"I should not in the least mind your speaking plainly; the admiration of people who do not
understand music I really do not care for." And then as Mr. Howard fixed his deep, clear eyes
upon her, Helen involuntarily lowered hers a little.

"If you really want my opinion," said the other, "you shall have it. But you must remember
that it is yourself who leads me to the bad taste of being serious in company."

That last remark was in Helen's own style, and she looked interested. For the rest, she felt
that she had gotten into grave trouble by her question; but it was too late to retreat now.

"I will excuse you," she said. "I wish to know."

"Very well, then," said Mr. Howard; "the truth is that I did not care for your selection."

Helen gave a slight start. "If that is all the trouble, I need not worry," she thought; and
she added easily, "The sonata is usually considered one of Beethoven's very greatest works,
Mr. Howard."

"I am aware of that," said the other; "but do you know how Beethoven came to compose it?"

Helen had the happy feeling of a person of moderate resources when the conversation turns to
one of his specialties. "Yes," she said; "I have read how he said 'So pocht das Schicksal auf
die Pforte.' [Footnote: "So knocks Fate upon the door."] Do you understand that, Mr. Howard?"

"Only partly," said the other, very gently; "do you?" And Helen felt just then that she had
made a very awkward blunder indeed.

"Fate is a very dreadful thing to understand, Miss Davis," the other continued, slowly. "When
one has heard the knock, he does not forget it, and even the echo of it makes him tremble."

"I suppose then," said Helen, glibly, trying to save herself, "that you think the sonata is
too serious to be played in public?"

"Not exactly," was the answer; "it depends upon the circumstances. There are always three persons
concerned, you know. In this case, as you have pardoned me for being serious, there is in the
first place the great genius with his sacred message; you know how he learned that his life
work was to be ruined by deafness, and how he poured his agony and despair into his greatest
symphony, and into this sonata. That is the first person, Miss Davis."

He paused for a moment; and Helen took a deep breath, thinking that it was the strangest conversation
she had ever been called upon to listen to during an evening's merriment. Yet she did not smile,
for the man's deep, resonant voice fascinated her.

"And the second?" she asked.

"The second," said Mr. Howard, turning his dark, sunken eyes full upon the girl, "is another
man, not a genius, but one who has suffered, I fear, nearly as much as one; a man who is very
hungry for beauty, and very impatient of insincerity, and who is accustomed to look to the
great masters of art for all his help and courage."

Helen felt very uncomfortable indeed.

"Evidently," she said, "I am the third."

"Yes," said Mr. Howard, "the pianist is the third. It is the pianist's place to take the great
work and live it, and study it until he knows all that it means; and then--"

"I don't think I took it quite so seriously as that," said Helen, with a poor attempt at humility.

"No," said Mr. Howard, gravely; "it was made evident to me that you did not by every note you
played; for you treated it as if it had been a Liszt show-piece."

Helen was of course exceedingly angry at those last blunt words; but she was too proud to let
her vexation be observed. She felt that she had gotten herself into the difficulty by asking
for serious criticism, for deep in her heart she knew that it was true, and that she would
never have dared to play the sonata had she known that a musician was present. Helen felt completely
humiliated, her few minutes' conversation having been enough to put her out of humor with herself
and all of her surroundings. There was a long silence, in which she had time to think of what
she had heard; she felt in spite of herself the folly of what she had done, and her whole triumph
had suddenly come to look very small indeed; yet, as was natural, she felt only anger against
the man who had broken the spell and destroyed her illusion. She was only the more irritated
because she could not find any ground upon which to blame him.

It would have been very difficult for her to have carried on the conversation after that. Fortunately
a diversion occurred, the young person who had last played having gone to the piano again,
this time with a young man and a violin.

"Aunt Polly has found someone to take your place," said Helen, forcing a smile.

"Yes," said the other, "she told me we had another violinist."

The violinist played Raff's Cavatina, a thing with which fiddlers all love to exhibit themselves;
he played it just a little off the key at times, as Helen might have told by watching her companion's
eyebrows. She in the meantime was trying to recover her equanimity, and to think what else
she could say. "He's the most uncomfortable man I ever met," she thought with vexation. "I
wish I'd insisted upon keeping away from him!"

However, Helen was again relieved from her plight by the fact that as the fiddler stopped and
the faint applause died out, she saw Mr. Harrison coming towards her. Mr. Harrison had somehow
succeeded in extricating himself from the difficulty in which his hostess had placed him, and
had no doubt guessed that Helen was no better pleased with her new companion.

"May I join you?" he asked, as he neared the sofa.

"Certainly," said Helen, smiling; she introduced the two men, and Mr. Harrison sat down upon
the other side of the girl. Somehow or other he seemed less endurable than he had just before,
for his voice was not as soft as Mr. Howard's, and now that Helen's animation was gone she
was again aware of the millionaire's very limited attainments.

"That was a very interesting thing we just heard," he said. "What was it? Do you know?"

Helen answered that it was Raff's Cavatina.

"Cavatina?" said Mr. Harrison. "The name sounds familiar; I may have heard it before."

Helen glanced nervously at Mr. Howard; but the latter gave no sign.

"Mr. Howard is himself a violinist," she said. "We must be careful what criticisms we make."

"Oh, I do not make any--I do not know enough about it," said the other, with heartiness which
somehow seemed to Helen to fail of deserving the palliating epithet of "bluff."

"Mr. Howard has just been telling me about my own playing," Helen went on, growing a little
desperate.

"I hope he admired it as much as I did," said the unfortunate railroad-president.

"I'm afraid he didn't," said Helen, trying to turn the matter into a laugh.

"He didn't!" exclaimed Mr. Harrison, in surprise. "Pray, why not?"

He asked the question of Mr. Howard, and Helen shuddered, for fear he might begin with that
dreadful "There are always three persons concerned, you know." But the man merely said, very
quietly, "My criticism was of rather a technical nature, Mr. Harrison."

"I'm sure, for my part I thought her playing wonderful," said the gentleman from Cincinnati,
to which the other did not reply.

Helen felt herself between two fires and her vexation was increasing every moment; yet, try
as she might, she could not think of anything to change the subject, and it was fortunate that
the watchful Aunt Polly was on hand to save her. Mrs. Roberts was too diplomatic a person not
to see the unwisdom of putting Mr. Harrison in a position where his deficiencies must be so
very apparent, and so she came over, determined to carry one of the two men away. She was relieved
of the trouble by the fact that, as she came near, Mr. Howard rose, again with some pain as
it seemed to Helen, and asked the girl to excuse him. "I have been feeling quite ill today,"
he explained.

Helen, as she saw him walk away with Mrs. Roberts, sank back with a sigh which was only half
restrained. "A very peculiar person," said Mr. Harrison, who was clever enough to divine her
vexation."

"Yes," said the girl, "very, indeed."

"He seemed to be lecturing you about something, from what I saw," added the other. The remark
was far from being in the best taste, but it pleased Helen, because it went to justify her
to herself, and at the same time offered her an opportunity to vent her feelings.

"Yes," she said. "It was about music; he was very much displeased with me."

"So!" exclaimed Mr. Harrison. "I hope you do not let that disturb you?"

"No," said the girl, laughing,--"or at any rate, I shall soon recover my equanimity. It is
very hard to please a man who plays himself, you know."

"Or who says he plays," observed Mr. Harrison. "He didn't play, you notice."

Helen was pleased to fancy that there might be wisdom in the remark. "Let us change the subject,"
she said more cheerfully. "It is best to forget things that make one feel uncomfortable."

"I'll leave the finding of a new topic to you," replied the other, with graciousness which
did a little more to restore Helen's self-esteem. "I have a very humble opinion of my own conversation."

"Do you like mine?" the girl asked with a laugh.

"I do, indeed," said Mr. Harrison with equally pleasing frankness. "I was as interested as
could be in the story that you were telling me when we were stopped."

"Well, we'll begin where we left off!" exclaimed Helen, and felt as if she had suddenly discovered
a doorway leading from a prison. She found it easy to forget the recent events after that,
and Mr. Harrison grew more tolerable to her every moment now that the other was gone; her self-possession
came back to her quickly as she read his admiration in his eyes. Besides that, it was impossible
to forget for very long that Mr. Harrison was a multi-millionaire, and the object of the envious
glances of every other girl in the room; and so when Aunt Polly returned a while later she
found the conversation between the two progressing very well, and in fact almost as much enjoyed
by both as it had been the first time. After waiting a few minutes she came to ask Helen to
sing for the company, a treat which she had reserved until the last.

Helen's buoyant nature had by that time flung all her doubts behind her, and this last excitement
was all that was needed to sweep her away entirely again. She went to the piano as exulting
as ever in her command of it and in the homage which it brought her. She sang an arrangement
of the "Preislied," and she sang it with all the energy and enthusiasm she possessed; partly
because she had a really good voice and enjoyed the song, and partly because an audience appreciates
singing more easily than any other kind of music. She really scored the success of the evening.
Everybody was as enthusiastic as the limits of good taste allowed, and Helen was compelled,
not in the least against her will, to sing again and again. While she was laughing with happiness
and triumph, something brought, back "Wohin" to her mind, and she sang it again, quite as gaily
as she had sung it by the streamlet with Arthur. It was enough to delight even the dullest,
and perhaps if Mr. Howard had been there even he would have applauded a little.

At any rate, as Helen rose from the piano she received a complete ovation, everyone coming
to her to thank her and to praise her, and to share in the joy of her beauty; she herself had
never been more radiant and more exulting in all her exulting life, drinking in even Mr. Harrison's
rapturous compliments and finding nothing exaggerated in them. And in the meantime, Aunt Polly
having suggested a waltz to close the festivities, the furniture was rapidly moved to one side,
and the hostess herself took her seat at the piano and struck up the "Invitation to the Dance;"
Mr. Harrison, who had been at Helen's side since her singing had ceased, was of course her
partner, and the girl, flushed and excited by all the homage she had received, was soon waltzing
delightedly in his arms. The man danced well, fortunately for him, and that he was the beautiful
girl's ardent admirer was by this time evident, not only to Helen, but to everyone else.

In the mood that she was then, the fact was as welcome to her as it could possibly have been,
and when, therefore, Mr. Harrison kept her arm and begged for the next dance, and the next
in turn, Helen was sufficiently carried away to have no wish to refuse him; when after the
third dance she was tired out and sat down to rest, Mr. Harrison was still her companion.

Helen was at the very height of her happiness then, every trace of her former vexation gone,
and likewise every trace of her objections to the man beside her. The music was still sounding
merrily, and everyone else was dancing, so that her animation did not seem at all out of taste;
and so brilliant and fascinating had she become, and so completely enraptured was Mr. Harrison,
that he would probably have capitulated then and there if the dancing had not ceased and the
company separated when it did. The end of all the excitement was a great disappointment to
Helen; she was completely happy just then, and would have gone just as far as the stream had
carried her. It being her first social experience was probably the reason that she was less
easily wearied than the rest; and besides, when one has thus yielded to the sway of the senses,
he dreads instinctively the subsiding of the excitement and the awakening of reason.

The awakening, however, is one that must always come; Helen, having sent away the maid, suddenly
found herself standing alone in the middle of her own room gazing at herself in the glass,
and seeing a frightened look in her eyes. The merry laughter of the guests ceased gradually,
and silence settled about the halls of the great house; but even then Helen did not move. She
was standing there still when her aunt came into the room.

Mrs. Roberts was about as excited as was possible in a matron of her age and dignity; she flung
her arms rapturously around Helen, and clasped her to her. "My dear," she cried, "it was a
triumph!"

"Yes, Auntie," said Helen, weakly.

"You dear child, you!" went on the other, laughing; "I don't believe you realize it yet! Do
you know, Helen, that Mr. Harrison is madly in love with you? You ought to be the happiest
girl in the land tonight!"

"Yes, Auntie," said Helen again, still more weakly.

"Come here, my dear," said Mrs. Roberts, drawing her gently over to the bed and sitting down
beside her; "you are a little dazed, I fancy, and I do not blame you. I should have been beside
myself at your age if such a thing had happened to me; do you realize, child, what a fortune
like Mr. Harrison's is?"

"No," said Helen, "it is very hard, Aunt Polly. I'm afraid about it; I must have some time
to think."

"Think!" laughed the other. "You queer child! My dear, do you actually mean that you could
think of refusing this chance of your lifetime?"

"I don't know," said Helen, trembling; "I don't--"

"Everybody'd think you were crazy, child! I know I should, for one." And she added, coaxingly,
"Let me tell you what Mr. Roberts said."

"What, Auntie?"

"He sent you in this message; he's a great person for doing generous things, when he takes
it into his head. He told me to tell you that if you'd accept Mr. Harrison's offer he would
give you the finest trousseau that he could buy. Wasn't that splendid of him?"

"Yes," said Helen, "thank him for me;" and she shuddered. "Don't talk to me any more about
it now, tho," she pleaded. "Please don't, Aunt Polly. I was so excited, and it was all like
a dream, and I'm half dazed now; I can't think about it, and I must think, somehow! It's too
dreadful!"

"You shan't think about it tonight, child," laughed the other, "for I want you to sleep and
be beautiful tomorrow. See," she added, beginning to unfasten Helen's dress, "I'm going to
be your little mother tonight, and put you to bed."

And so, soothing the girl and kissing her burning forehead and trying to laugh away her fears,
her delighted protectress undressed her, and did not leave her until she had seen her in bed
and kissed her again. "And promise me, child," she said, "that you won't worry yourself tonight.
Go to sleep, and you'll have time to think tomorrow."

Helen promised that she would; but she did not keep her promise. She heard the great clock
in the hallway strike many times, and when the darkest hours of the night had passed she was
sitting up in bed and gazing about her at the gray shadows in the room, holding the covering
tightly about her, because she was very cold; she was muttering nervously to herself, half
deliriously: "No, no, I will not do it! They shall not make me do it! I must have time to think."

And when at last she fell into a restless slumber, that thought was still in her mind, and
those words upon her lips: "I will not do it; I must have time to think!"

[Music: The opening passage of Beethoven's Appassionata Sonata.]

CHAPTER VI

  "And yet methinks I see it in thy face,
  What them shouldst be: th' occasion speaks thee; and
  My strong imagination sees a crown
  Dropping upon thy head."

When Helen awoke upon the following morning, the resolution to withstand her aunt's urging
was still strong within her; as she strove to bring back the swift events of the night before,
the first discovery she made was a headache and a feeling of weariness and dissatisfaction
that was new to her. She arose and looked in the glass, and seeing that she was pale, vowed
again, "They shall not torment me in this way! I do not even mean that he shall propose to
me; I must have time to realize it!"

And so firm was she in her own mind that she rang the bell and sent the maid to call her aunt.
It was then only nine o'clock in the morning, and Helen presumed that neither Mrs. Roberts
nor any of the other guests would be awake, they not being fresh from boarding school as she
was; but the girl was so nervous and restless, and so weighed upon by her urgent resolution,
that she felt she could do nothing else until she had declared it and gotten rid of the matter.
"I'm going to tell her once for all," she vowed; "they shall not torment me any more."

It turned out, however, that Mrs. Roberts had been up and dressed a considerable time,--for
a reason which, when Helen learned it, prevented her delivering so quickly the speech she had
upon her mind; she noticed a worried expression upon her aunt's face as soon as the latter
came into the room.

"What is the matter?" she asked, in some surprise.

"A very dreadful misfortune, my dear," said Mrs. Roberts; "I don't know how to tell you, you'll
be so put out."

Helen was quite alarmed as she saw her aunt sink down into a chair; but then it flashed over
her that Mr. Harrison might have for some reason been called away.

"What is it? Tell me!" she asked eagerly.

"It's Mr. Howard, my dear," said the other; and Helen frowned.

"Oh, bother!" she cried; "what about him?"

"He's been ill during the night," replied Aunt Polly.

"Ill!" exclaimed Helen. "Dear me, what a nuisance!"

"Poor man," said the other, deprecatingly; "he cannot help it."

"Yes," exclaimed Helen, "but he ought not to be here. What is the matter with him?"

"I don't know," was the reply, "but he has been suffering so all night that the doctor has
had to give him an opiate."

The wan countenance of Mr. Howard rose up before Helen just then, and she shuddered inwardly.

"Dear me, what a state of affairs!" she exclaimed. "It seems to me as if I were to have nothing
but fright and worry. Why should there be such things in the world?"

"I don't know, Helen," said the other, "but it is certainly inopportune for you. Of course
the company will all have to leave."

"To leave!" echoed Helen; she had never once thought of that.

"Why, of course," said her aunt. "It would not be possible to enjoy ourselves under such very
dreadful circumstances."

"But, Aunt Polly, that is a shame!" cried the girl. "The idea of so many people being inconvenienced
for such a cause. Can't he be moved?"

"The doctor declares it would be impossible at present, Helen, and it would not look right
anyway, you know. He will certainly have to remain until he is better."

"And how long will that be?"

"A week, or perhaps more," was the reply.

And Helen saw that her promised holiday was ruined; her emotions, however, were not all of
disappointment, for though she was vexed at the interruptions, she recollected with sudden
relief that she could thus obtain, and without so much effort of her own, the time to debate
the problem of Mr. Harrison. Also there was in her mind, if not exactly pity for the invalid,
at any rate the nearest to it that Helen had ever learned to feel, an uncomfortable fright
at the idea of such suffering.

"I promise you," said Aunt Polly, who had been watching her face and trying to read her emotions,
"that we shall only postpone the good time I meant to give you. You cannot possibly be more
vexed about it than I, for I was rejoicing in your triumph with Mr. Harrison."

"I'm not worrying on that account," said Helen, angrily.

"Helen, dear," said Mrs. Roberts, pleadingly, "what can be the matter with you? I think anyone
who was watching you and me would get the idea that I was the one to whom the fortune is coming.
I suppose that was only one of your jokes, my dear, but I truly don't think you show a realization
of what a tremendous opportunity you have. You show much more lack of experience than I had
any idea could be possible."

"It isn't that, Aunt Polly," protested Helen; "I realize it, but I want time to think."

"To think, Helen! But what is there to think? It seems to be madness to trifle with such a chance."

"Will it be trifling to keep him waiting a while?" asked Helen, laughing in spite of her vexation.

"Maybe not, my dear; but you ought to know that every other girl in this house would snap him
up at one second's notice. If you'd only seen them watching you last night as I did."

"I saw a little," was the reply. "But, Aunt Polly, is Mr. Harrison the only man whom I can find?"

"My husband and I have been over the list of our acquaintances, and not found anyone that can
be compared with him for an instant, Helen. We know of no one that would do for you that has
half as much money."

"I never said he'd do for me," said Helen, again laughing. "Understand me, Auntie," she added;
"it isn't that I'd not like the fortune! If I could get it without its attachment--"

"But, my dear, you know you can never get any wealth except by marriage; what is the use of
talking such nonsense, even in fun?"

"But, listen," objected Helen in turn; "suppose I don't want such a great fortune--suppose
I should marry one of these other men?"

"Helen, if you only could know as much as I know about these things," said Mrs. Roberts, "if
you only could know the difference between being in the middle and at the top of the social
ladder! Dear, why will you choose anything but the best when you can have the best if you want
it? I tell you once for all I do not care how clever you are, or how beautiful you are, the
great people will look down on you for an upstart if you cannot match them and make just as
much of a show. And why can you not discover what your own tastes are? I watched you last night,
child; anyone could have seen that you were in your element! You outshone everyone, Helen,
and you should do just the same all your life. Can you not see just what that means to you?"

"Yes, Auntie," said Helen, "but then--"

"Were you not perfectly happy last night?" interrupted the other.

"No," protested the other, "that's just what I was going to say."

"The only reason in the world why you are not, my dear, is that you were tormenting yourself
with foolish scruples. Can you not see that if you once had the courage to rid yourself of
them it would be all that you need. Why are you so weak, Helen?"

"It is not weak!" exclaimed the other.

"Yes," asserted Mrs. Roberts, "I say it is weak. It is weak of you not to comprehend what your
life is to be, and what you need for your happiness. It is a shame for you to make no use of
the glorious gifts that are yours, and to cramp and hinder all your own progress. I want you
to have room to show your true powers, Helen!"

Helen had been leaning over the foot of the bed listening to her aunt, stirred again by all
her old emotion, and angry with herself for being stirred; her unspoken resolution was not
quite so steady as it had been, tho like all good resolutions it remained in her mind to torment
her.

She sprang up suddenly with a very nervous and forced laugh. "I'm glad I don't have to argue
with you, Auntie," she said, "and that I'm saved the trouble of worrying myself ill. You see
the Fates are on my side,--I must have time to think, whether I want to or not." It was that
comfort which saved her from further struggle with herself upon the subject. (Helen much preferred
being happy to struggling.) She set hurriedly to work to dress, for her aunt told her that
the guests were nearly ready for breakfast.

"Nobody could sleep since all the excitement," she said. "I wonder it did not wake you."

"I was tired," said Helen; "I guess that was it."

"You'll find the breakfast rather a sombre repast," added Mrs. Roberts, pathetically. "I've
been up nearly three hours myself, so frightened about poor Mr. Howard; I had neveer seen anyone
so dreadfully ill, and I was quite certain he was in his death agony."

"Aunt Polly!" cried Helen with a sudden wild start, "why do you talk like that?"

"I won't say any more about it," was the reply, "only hurry up. And put on your best looks,
my dear, for Mr. Harrison to carry away in his memory."

"I'll do that much with pleasure," was the answer; "and please have the maid come up to pack
my trunks again; for you won't want me to stay now, of course."

"Oh, no," said Mrs. Roberts, "not unless you want to. Our house won't be a very cheerful place,
I fear."

"I'll come back in a week or two, when you are ready for me," Helen added; "in the meantime
I can be thinking about Mr. Harrison."

Helen was soon on her way downstairs, for it was terrifying to her to be alone and in the neighborhood
of Mr. Howard. She found a sombre gathering indeed, for the guests spoke to each other only
in half-whispers, and there were few smiles to be seen. Helen found herself placed opposite
Mr. Harrison at the table, and she had a chance to study him by glances through the meal. "He's
well dressed, anyway," she mused, "and he isn't altogether bad. I wonder if I'd dare to marry him."

After breakfast Helen strolled out upon the piazza, perhaps with some purpose in her mind;
for it is not unpleasant to toy with a temptation, even when one means to resist it. At any
rate, she was a little excited when she heard Mr. Harrison coming out to join her there.

"Rather a sad ending of our little party, wasn't it, Miss Davis?" he said.

"Yes," answered the girl, "I feel so sorry for poor Mr. Howard."

"He seemed to be rather ill last night," said the other. He was going to add that the fact
perhaps accounted for the invalid's severity, but he was afraid of shocking Helen by his levity,--a
not entirely necessary precaution, unfortunately.

"You are going back to town this morning, with the others?" Helen asked.

"No," said Mr. Harrison, somewhat to her surprise; "I have a different plan."

"Good Heavens, does he suppose he's going to stay here with me?" thought the girl.

"I received your aunt's permission to ask you," continued Mr. Harrison, "and so I need only yours."

"For what?" Helen inquired, with varied emotions.

"To drive you over to Oakdale with my rig," said the other. "I had it brought down, you know,
because I thought there might be a chance to use it."

Helen had turned slightly paler, and was staring in front of her.

"Are you not fond of driving, then, Miss Davis?" asked the other, as she hesitated.

"Yes," said Helen, "but I don't like to trouble you--"

"I assure you it will be the greatest pleasure in the world," said Mr. Harrison; "I only regret
that I shall not be able to see more of you, Miss Davis; it is only for the present, I hope."

"Thank you," said Helen, still very faintly.

"And I have a pair of horses that I am rather proud of," added Mr. Harrison, laughing; "I should
like you to tell me what you think of them. Will you give me the pleasure?"

And Helen could not hesitate very much longer without being rude. "If you really wish it, Mr.
Harrison," she said, "very well." And then someone else came out on the piazza and cut short
the conversation; Helen had no time to think any more about the matter, but she had a disagreeable
consciousness that her blood was flowing faster again, and that her old agitation was back
in all its strength. Soon afterwards Mrs. Roberts came out and joined the two.

"Miss Davis has granted me the very great favor," said Mr. Harrison; "I fear I shall be happier
than I ought to be, considering what suffering I leave behind."

"It will do no good to worry about it," said Mrs. Roberts, a reflection which often keeps the
world from wasting its sympathy. "I shall have your carriage brought round."

"Isn't it rather early to start?" asked Helen.

"I don't know," said her aunt; "is it?"

"We can take a little drive if it is," said Mr. Harrison; "I mean that Miss Davis shall think
a great deal of my horses."

Helen said nothing, but stood gazing in front of her across the lawns, her mind in a tempest
of emotions. She could not put away from her the excitement that Mr. Harrison's presence brought;
the visions of wealth and power which gleamed before her almost overwhelmed her with their
vastness. But she had also the memory of her morning resolve to trouble her conscience; the
result was the same confused helplessness, the dazed and frightened feeling which she so rebelled
against.

"I do not want to be troubled in this way," she muttered angrily to herself, again and again;
"I wish to be let alone, so that I can be happy!"

Yet there was no chance just then for her to find an instant's peace, or time for further thought;
there were half a dozen people about her, and she was compelled to listen to and answer commonplace
remarks about the beauty of the country in front of her, and about her singing on the previous
evening.

She had to stifle her agitation as best she could, and almost before she realized it her aunt
had come to summon her to get ready for the drive.

Helen hoped to have a moment's quiet then; but there was nothing to be done but put on her
hat and gloves, and Mrs. Roberts was with her all the time. "Helen," she said pleadingly, as
she watched the girl surveying herself in the glass, "I do hope you will not forget all that
I told you."

"I wish you would let me alone about it!" cried Helen, very peevishly.

"If you only knew, my dear girl, how much I have done for you," replied the other, "and how
I've planned and looked forward to this time, I don't think you'd answer me in that way."

"It isn't that, Aunt Polly," exclaimed Helen, "but I am so confused and I don't know what to
think."

"I am trying my poor, humble best to show you what to think. And you could not possibly feel
more worried than I just now; Helen, you could be rid of all these doubts and struggles in
one instant, if you chose. Ask yourself if it is not true; you have only to give yourself into
the arms of the happiness that calls you. And you never will get rid of the matter in any other
way,--indeed you will not! If you should fling away this chance, the memory of it would never
leave you all your life; after you knew it was too late, you would torment yourself a thousand
times more than ever you can now."

"Oh, dear, dear!" cried Helen, half hysterically; "I can't stand that, Aunt Polly. I'll do
anything, only let me alone! My head is aching to split, and I don't know where I am."

"And you will never find another chance like it, Helen," went on the other, with sledge-hammer
remorselessness. "For if you behave in this perfectly insane way and lose this opportunity,
I shall simply give you up in despair at your perversity."

"But I haven't said I was going to lose it," the girl exclaimed. "He won't be any the less
in love with me if I make him wait, Aunt Polly!--"

"Mr. Harrison was going back to Cincinnati in a day or two," put in Mrs. Roberts, swiftly.

"He will stay if I wish him to," was the girl's reply. "There is no need for so much worry;
one would think I was getting old."

"Old!" laughed the other. "You are so beautiful this morning, Helen, that I could fall in love
with you myself." She turned the girl towards her, seeing that her toilet was finished." I
haven't a thought in the world, dear, but to keep you so beautiful," she said; "I hate to see
you tormenting yourself and making yourself so pale; why will you not take my advice and fling
all these worries aside and let yourself be happy? That is all I want you to do, and it is
so easy! Why is it that you do not want to be happy? I like to see you smile, Helen!" And Helen,
who was tired of struggling, made a wry attempt to oblige her, and then broke into a laugh
at herself. Meanwhile the other picked a rose from a great bunch of them that lay upon the
bureau, and pinned it upon her dress.

"There, child," she, said, "he can never resist you now, I know!"

Helen kissed her excitedly upon the cheek, and darted quickly out of the door, singing, in
a brave attempt to bring back her old, merry self:--

"The flowers that bloom in the spring, tra-la-la, Have nothing to do with the case."

A moment later, however, she recollected Mr. Howard and his misfortune, and her heart sank;
she ran quickly down the steps to get the thought of him from her mind.

It was easy enough to forget him and all other troubles as well when she was once outside upon
the piazza; for there were plenty of happy people, and everyone crowded about her to bid her
good-by. There too was Mr. Harrison standing upon the steps waiting for her, and there was
his driving-cart with two magnificent black horses, alert and eager for the sport. Helen was
not much of a judge of horses, having never had one of her own to drive, but she had the eye
of a person of aristocratic tastes for what was in good form, and she saw that Mr. Harrison's
turnout was all of that, with another attraction for her, that it was daring; for the horses
were lithe, restless creatures, thoroughbreds, both of them; and it looked as if they had not
been out of the stable in a week. They were giving the groom who held them all that he could do.

Mr. Harrison held out his hand to the girl as she came down the steps, and eyed her keenly
to see if her flushed cheeks would betray any sign of fear. But Helen's emotions were surging
too strongly for such thoughts, and she had, besides, a little of the thoroughbred nature herself.
She laughed gaily as she gave her hand to her companion and sprang into the wagon; he followed
her, and as he took the reins the groom sprang aside and the two horses bounded away down the
broad avenue. Helen turned once to wave her hand in answer to the chorus of good-bys that sounded
from the porch, and then she faced about and sank back into the seat and drank in with delight
the fresh morning breeze that blew in her face.

"Oh, I think this is fine!" she cried.

"You like driving, then?" asked the other.

"Yes indeed," was the reply. "I like this kind ever so much."

"Wait until we get out on the high-road," said Mr. Harrison, "and then we will see what we
can do. I came from the West, you know, Miss Davis, so I think I am wise on the subject of horses."

The woods on either side sped by them, and Helen's emotions soon began to flow faster. It was
always easy for her to forget everything and lose herself in feelings of joy and power, and
it was especially easy when she was as much wrought up as she was just then. It was again her
ride with the thunderstorm, and soon she felt as if she were being swept out into the rejoicing
and the victory once more. She might have realized, if she had thought, that her joy was coming
only because she was following her aunt's advice, and yielding herself into the arms of her
temptation; but Helen was thoroughly tired of thinking; she wanted to feel, and again and again
she drank in deep breaths of the breeze.

It was only a minute or so before they passed the gates of the Roberts place, and swept out
of the woods and into the open country. It was really inspiring then, for Mr. Harrison gave
his horses the reins, and Helen was compelled to hold on to her hat. He saw delight and laughter
glowing in her countenance as she watched the landscape that fled by them, with its hillsides
clad in their brightest green and with its fresh-plowed farm-lands and snowy orchards; the
clattering of the horses' hoofs and the whirring of the wheels in the sandy road were music
and inspiration such as Helen longed for, and she would have sung with all her heart had she
been alone.

As was her way, she talked instead, with the same animation and glow that had fascinated her
companion upon the previous evening. She talked of the sights that were about them, and when
they came to the top of the hill and paused to gaze around at the view, she told about her
trip through the Alps, and pictured the scenery to him, and narrated some of her mountain-climbing
adventures; and then Mr. Harrison, who must have been a dull man indeed not to have felt the
contagion of Helen's happiness, told her about his own experiences in the Rockies, to which
the girl listened with genuine interest. Mr. Harrison's father, so he told her, had been a
station-agent of a little town in one of the wildest portions of the mountains; he himself
had begun as a railroad surveyor, and had risen step by step by constant exertion and watchfulness.
It was a story of a self-made man, such as Helen had vowed to her aunt she could not bear to
listen to; yet she did not find it disagreeable just then. There was an exciting story of a
race with a rival road, to secure the right to the best route across the mountains; Helen found
it quite as exciting as music, and said so.

"Perhaps it is a kind of music," said Mr. Harrison, laughing; "it is the only kind I have cared
anything about, excepting yours."

"I had no idea people had to work so hard in the world," said Helen, dodging the compliment.

"They do, unless they have someone else to do it for them," said the other. "It is a, fierce
race, nowadays, and a man has to watch and think every minute of the time. But it is glorious
to triumph."

Helen found herself already a little more in a position to realize what ten million dollars
amounted to, and very much more respectful and awe-stricken in her relation to them. She was
sufficiently oblivious to the flight of time to be quite surprised when she gazed about her,
and discovered that they were within a couple of miles of home. "I had no idea of how quickly
we were going," she said.

"You are not tired, then?" asked the other.

"No indeed," Helen answered, "I enjoyed it ever so much."

"We might drive farther," said Mr. Harrison; "these horses are hardly waked up."

He reined them in a little and glanced at his watch. "It's just eleven," he said, "I think
there'd be time," and he turned to her with a smile. "Would you like to have an adventure?"
he asked.

"I generally do," replied the girl. "What is it?"

"I was thinking of a drive," said the other; "one that we could just about take and return
by lunch-time; it is about ten miles from here."

"What is it?" asked Helen.

"I have just bought a country place near here," said Mr. Harrison. "I thought perhaps you would
like to see it."

"My aunt spoke of it," Helen answered; "the Eversons' old home."

"Yes," said the other; "you know it, then?"

"I only saw it once in my life, when I was a very little girl," Helen replied, "and so I have
only a dim recollection of its magnificence; the old man who lived there never saw any company."

"It had to be sold because he failed in business," said Mr. Harrison. "Would you like to drive
over?"

"Very much," said Helen, and a minute later, when they came to a fork in the road, they took
the one which led them to "Fairview," as the place was called.

"I think it a tremendously fine property myself," said Mr. Harrison; "I made up my mind to
have it the first time I saw it. I haven't seen anything around here to equal it, and I hope
to make a real English country-seat out of it. I'll tell you about what I want to do when we
get there, and you can give me your advice; a man never has good taste, you know."

"I should like to see it," answered Helen, smiling; "I have a passion for fixing up things."

"We had an exciting time at the sale," went on Mr. Harrison reminiscently. "You know Mr. Everson's
family wanted to keep the place themselves, and the three or four branches of the family had
clubbed together to buy it; when the bidding got near the end, there was no one left but the
family and myself."

"And you got it?" said Helen. "How cruel!"

"The strongest wins," laughed the other. "I had made up my mind to have it. The Eversons are
a very aristocratic family, aren't they?"

"Yes," said Helen, "very, indeed; they have lived in this part of the country since the Revolution."
As Mr. Harrison went on to tell her the story of the sale she found herself vividly reminded
of what her aunt had told her of the difference between having a good deal of money and all
the money one wanted. Perhaps, also, her companion was not without some such vaguely felt purpose
in the telling. At any rate, the girl was trembling inwardly more and more at the prospect
which was unfolding itself before her; as excitement always acted upon her as a stimulant,
she was at her very best during the rest of the drive. She and her companion were conversing
very merrily indeed when Fairview was reached.

The very beginning of the place was imposing, for there was a high wall along the roadway for
perhaps a quarter of a mile, and then two massive iron gates set in great stone pillars; they
were opened by the gate-keeper in response to Mr. Harrison's call. Once inside the two had
a drive of some distance through what had once been a, handsome park, though it was a semi-wilderness
then. The road ascended somewhat all the way, until the end of the forest was reached, and
the first view of the house was gained; Helen could scarcely restrain a cry of pleasure as
she saw it, for it was really a magnificent old mansion, built of weather-beaten gray stone,
and standing upon a high plateau, surrounded by a lawn and shaded by half a dozen great oaks;
below it the lawn sloped in a broad terrace, and in the valley thus formed gleamed a little
trout-pond, set off at the back by a thickly-wooded hillside.

"Isn't it splendid!" the girl exclaimed, gazing about her.

"I thought it was rather good," said Mr. Harrison, deprecatingly. "It can be made much finer,
of course."

"When you take your last year's hay crop from the lawn, for one thing," laughed she. "But I
had no idea there was anything so beautiful near our little Oakdale. Just look at that tremendous
entrance!"

"It's all built in royal style," said Mr. Harrison. "The family must have been wealthy in the
old days."

"Probably slave-dealers, or something of that kind," observed Helen. "Is the house all furnished
inside?"

"Yes," said the other, "but I expect to do most of it over. Wouldn't you like to look?" He
asked the question as he saw the gate-keeper coming up the road, presumably with the keys.

The girl gazed about her dubiously; she would have liked to go in, except that she was certain
it would be improper. Helen had never had much respect for the proprieties, however, being
accustomed to rely upon her own opinions of things; and in the present case, besides, she reflected
that no one would ever know anything about it.

"We'd not have time to do more than glance around," continued the other, "but we might do that,
if you like."

"Yes," said Helen, after a moment more of hesitation, "I think I should."

Her heart was beating very fast as the two ascended the great stone steps and as the door opened
before them; her mind could not but be filled with the overwhelming thought that all that she
saw might be hers if she really wanted it. The mere imagining of Mr. Harrison's wealth had
been enough to make her thrill and burn, so it was to be expected that the actual presence
of some of it would not fail of its effect. It is to be observed that the great Temptation
took place upon a high mountain, where the kingdoms of the earth could really be seen; and
Helen as she gazed around had the further knowledge that the broad landscape and palatial house,
which to her were almost too splendid to be real, were after all but a slight trifle to her
companion.

The girl entered the great hallway, with its huge fireplace and its winding stairway, and then
strolled through the parlors of the vast house; Helen had in all its fullness the woman's passion
for spending money for beautiful things, and it had been her chief woe in all her travels that
the furniture and pictures and tapestry which she gazed at with such keen delight must be forever
beyond her thoughts. Just at present her fancy was turned loose and madly reveling in these
memories, while always above her wildest flights was the intoxicating certainty that there
was no reason why they should not all be possible. She could not but recollect with a wondering
smile that only yesterday she had been happy at the thought of arranging one dingy little parlor
in her country parsonage, and had been trying to persuade her father to the extravagance of
re-covering two chairs.

It would have been hard for Helen to keep her emotions from Mr. Harrison, and he must have
guessed the reason why she was so flushed and excited. They were standing just then in the
center of the great dining-room, with its massive furniture of black mahogany, and she was
saying that it ought to be papered in dark red, and was conjuring up the effect to herself.
"Something rich, you know, to set off the furniture," she explained.

"And you must take that dreadful portrait from over the mantel," she added, laughing. (It was
a picture of a Revolutionary warrior, on horseback and in full uniform, the coloring looking
like faded oilcloth.)

"I had thought of that myself," said Mr. Harrison. "It's the founder of the Eversons; there's
a picture gallery in a hall back of here, with two whole rows of ancestors in it."

"Why don't you adopt them?" asked Helen mischievously.

"One can buy all the ancestors one wants to, nowadays," laughed Mr. Harrison. "I thought I'd
make something more interesting out of it. I'm not much of a judge of art, you know, but I
thought if I ever went abroad I'd buy up some of the great paintings that one reads about--some
of the old masters, you know."

"I'm afraid you'd find very few of them for sale," said Helen, smiling.

"I'm not accustomed to fail in buying things that I want," was the other's reply. "Are you
fond of pictures?"

"Very much indeed," answered the girl. As a matter of fact, the mere mention of the subject
opened a new kingdom to her, for she could not count the number of times she had sat before
beautiful pictures and almost wept at the thought that she could never own one that was really
worth looking at. "I brought home a few myself," she said to her companion,--"just engravings,
you know, half a dozen that I thought would please me; I mean to hang them around my music-room."

"Tell me about it," said Mr, Harrison. "I have been thinking of fixing up such a place myself,
you know. I thought of extending the house on the side that has the fine view of the valley,
and making part a piazza, and part a conservatory or music-room."

"It could be both!" exclaimed the girl, eagerly. "That would be the very thing; there ought
not to be anything in a music-room, you know, except the piano and just a few chairs, and the
rest all flowers. The pictures ought all to be appropriate--pictures of nature, of things that
dance and are beautiful; oh, I could lose myself in such a room as that!" and Helen ran on,
completely carried away by the fancy, and forgetting even Mr. Harrison for a moment.

"I have often dreamed of such a place," she said, "where everything would be sympathetic; it's
a pity that one can't have a piano taken out into the fields, the way I remember reading that
Haydn used to do with his harpsichord. If I were a violinist, that's the way I'd do all my
playing, because then one would not need to be afraid to open his eyes; oh, it would be fine--"

Helen stopped; she was at the height of her excitement just then; and the climax came a moment
afterwards. "Miss Davis," asked the man, "would you really like to arrange such a music-room?"

The tone of his voice was so different that the girl comprehended instantly; it was this moment
to which she had been rushing with so much exultation; but when it came her heart almost stopped
beating, and she gave a choking gasp.

"Would you really like it?" asked Mr. Harrison again, bending towards her earnestly.

"Why, certainly," said Helen, making one blind and desperate effort to dodge the issue. "I'll
tell you everything that is necessary."

"That is not what I mean, Miss Davis!"

"Not?" echoed Helen, and she tried to look at him with her frank, open eyes; but when she saw
his burning look, she could not; she dropped her eyes and turned scarlet.

"Miss Davis," went on the man rapidly, "I have been waiting for a chance to tell you this.
Let me tell you now!"

Helen gazed wildly about her once, as if she would have fled; then she stood with her arms
lying helplessly at her sides, trembling in every nerve.

"There is very little pleasure that one can get from such beautiful things alone, Miss Davis,
and especially when he is as dulled by the world as myself. I thought that some day I might
be able to share them with some one who could enjoy them more than I, but I never knew who
that person was until last night. I know that I have not much else to offer you, except what
wealth and position I have gained; and when I think of all your accomplishments, and all that
you have to place you so far beyond me, I almost fear to offer myself to you. But I can only
give what I have--my humble admiration of your beauty and your powers; and the promise to worship
you, to give the rest of my life to seeing that you have everything in the world that you want.
I will put all that I own at your command, and get as much more as I can, with no thought but
of your happiness."

Mr. Harrison could not have chosen words more fitted to win the trembling girl beside him;
that, he should recognize as well as she did her superiority to him, removed half of his deficiency
in her eyes.

"Miss Davis," the other went on, "I cannot know how you will feel toward such a promise, but
I cannot but feel that what I possess could give you opportunities of much happiness. You should
have all the beauty about you that you wished, for there is nothing in the world too beautiful
for you; and you should have every luxury that money can buy, to save you from all care. If
this house seemed too small for you, you should have another wherever you desired it, and be
mistress of it, and of everything in it; and if you cared for a social career, you should have
everything to help you, and it would be my one happiness to see your triumph. I would give
a thousand times what I own to have you for my wife."

So the man continued, pleading his cause, until at last he stopped, waiting anxiously for a
sign from the girl; he saw that she was agitated, for her breast was heaving, and her forehead
flushed, but he could not tell the reason. "Perhaps, Miss Davis," he said, humbly, "you will
scorn such things as I have to offer you; tell me, is it that?"

Helen answered him, in a faint voice, "It is not that, Mr. Harrison; it is,--it is,--"

"What, Miss Davis?"

"It has been but a day! I have had no time to know you--to love you."

And Helen stopped, afraid at the words she herself was using; for she knew that for the first
time in her life she had stooped to a sham and a lie. Her whole soul was ablaze with longing
just then, with longing for the power and the happiness which this man held out to her; and
she meant to take him, she had no longer a thought of resistance. It was all the world which
offered itself to her, and she meant to clasp it to her--to lose herself quite utterly and
forget herself in it, and she was already drunk with the thought. Therefore she could not but
shudder as she heard the word "love" upon her lips, and knew that she had used it because she
wished to make a show of hesitation.

"I did not need but one day, Miss Davis," went on the other pleadingly, "to know that I loved
you--to know that I no longer set any value on the things that I had struggled all my life
to win; for you are perfect, Miss Davis. You are so far beyond me that I have scarcely the
courage to ask you what I do. But I must ask you, and know my fate."

He stopped again and gazed at her; and Helen looked at him wildly, and then turned away once
more, trembling. She wished that he would only continue still longer, for the word was upon
her lips, and yet it was horror for her to utter it, because she felt she ought not to yield
so soon,--because she wanted some delay; she sought for some word that would be an evasion,
that would make him urge her more strongly; she wished to be wooed and made to surrender, and
yet she could find no pretext.

"Answer me, Miss Davis!" exclaimed the other, passionately.

"What--what do you wish me to say?" asked Helen faintly.

"I wish you to tell me that you will be my wife; I wish you to take me for what I can give
you for your happiness and your glory. I ask nothing else, I make no terms; if you will do
it, it will make me the happiest man in the world. There is nothing else that I care for in life."

And then as the girl still stood, flushed and shuddering, hovering upon the verge, he took
her hand in his and begged her to reply. "You must not keep me in suspense!" he exclaimed.
"You must tell me,--tell me."

And Helen, almost sinking, answered him "Yes!" It was such a faint word that she scarcely heard
it herself, but the other heard it, and trembling with delight, he caught her in his arms and
pressed a burning kiss upon her cheek.

The effect surprised him; for the fire which had burned Helen and inflamed her cheeks had been
ambition, and ambition alone. It was the man's money that she wanted and she was stirred with
no less horror than ever at the thought of the price to be paid; therefore the touch of his
rough mustache upon her cheek acted upon her as an electric contact, and all the shame in her
nature burst into flame. She tore herself loose with almost a scream. "No, no!" she cried. "Stop!"

Mr. Harrison gazed at her in astonishment for a moment, scarcely able to find a word to say.
"Miss Davis," he protested, "Helen--what is the matter?"

"You had no right to do that!" she cried, trembling with anger.

"Helen!" protested the other, "have you not just promised to be my wife?" And the words made
the girl turn white and drop her eyes in fear.

"Yes, yes," she panted helplessly, "but you should not--it is too soon!" The other stood watching
her, perhaps divining a little of the cause of her agitation, and feeling, at any rate, that
he could be satisfied for the present with his success. He answered, very humbly, "Perhaps
you are right; I am very sorry for offending you," and stood silently waiting until the girl's
emotions had subsided a little, and she had looked at him again. "You will pardon me?" he asked.

"Yes, yes," she said, weakly, "only--"

"And you will not forget the promise you have made me?"

"No," she answered, and then she gazed anxiously toward the door. "Let us go," she said imploringly;
"it is all so hard for me to realize, and I feel so very faint."

The two went slowly down the hallway, Mr. Harrison not even venturing to offer her his arm;
outside they stood for a minute upon the high steps, Helen leaning against a pillar and breathing
very hard. She dared not raise her eyes to the man beside her.

"You wish to go now?" he asked, gently.

"Yes, please," she replied, "I think so; it is very late."

Helen scarcely knew what happened during the drive home, for she passed it in a half-dazed
condition, almost overwhelmed by what she had done. She answered mechanically to all Mr. Harrison's
remarks about his arrangements of the house and his plans elsewhere, but all reference to his
wealth seemed powerless to waken in her a trace of the exultation that had swept her away before,
while every allusion to their personal relationship was like the touch of fire. Her companion
seemed to divine the fact, and again he begged her anxiously not to forget the promise she
had given. Helen answered faintly that she would not; but the words were hard for her to say
and it was an infinite relief to her to see Oakdale again, and to feel that the strain would
soon be over, for the time at any rate.

"I shall stay somewhere in the neighborhood," said Mr. Harrison. "You will let me see you often,
Helen, will you not?"

"Yes," answered Helen, mechanically.

"I will come to-morrow," said the other, "and take you driving if you like; I promised to go
back and lunch with your aunt to-day, as I thought I was to return to the city." In a moment
more the carriage stopped in front of Helen's home, and the girl, without waiting for anyone
to assist her, leaped out and with a hasty word of parting, ran into the house. She heard the
horses trotting away, and then the door closed behind her, and she stood in the dark, silent
hallway. She saw no one, and after gazing about her for a moment she stole into her little
music-room and flung herself down upon the couch, where she lay with her head buried in her hands.

It was a long time afterwards when she glanced up again; she was trembling all over, and her
face was white.

"In Heaven's name, how can I have done it?" she whispered hoarsely, to herself. "How can I
have done it? And what am I to do now?"

Nur wer der Minne Macht ent-sagt, nur wer der Liebe Lust verjagt

CHAPTER VII

  "Wie kommt's, dass du so traurig bist,
    Da alles froh erscheint?
  Man sieht dir's an den Augen an,
    Gewiss, du hast geweint."

Helen might have spent the afternoon in that situation, tormenting herself with the doubts
and fears that filled her mind, had it not been for the fact that her presence was discovered
by Elizabeth, the servant, who came in to clean the room. The latter of course was astonished
to see her, but Helen was in no mood to vouchsafe explanations.

"Just leave me alone," she said. "I do not feel very well. And don't tell father I am here yet."

"Your father, Miss Helen!" exclaimed the woman; "didn't you get his letter?"

"What letter?" And then poor Helen was made aware of another trouble.

"Mr. Davis wrote Mrs. Roberts last night," answered the servant. "He's gone away."

"Away!" cried the girl. "Where to?"

"To New York." Then the woman went on to explain that Mr. Davis had been invited to take the
place of a friend who was ill, and had left Oakdale for a week. Helen understood that the letter
must have reached her aunt after her own departure.

"Dear me!" the girl exclaimed, "How unfortunate! I don't want to stay here alone."

But afterwards it flashed over her that if she did she might be able to have a week of quiet
to regain her self-possession. "Mr. Harrison couldn't expect to visit me if I were alone,"
she thought. "But then, I suppose he could, too," she added hastily, "if I am engaged to him!
And I could never stand that!"

"Miss Helen," said the servant, who had been standing and watching her anxiously, "you look
very ill; is anything the matter?"

"Nothing," Helen answered, "only I want to rest. Leave me alone, please, Elizabeth."

"Are you going to stay?" the other asked; "I must fix up your room."

"I'll have to stay," said Helen. "There's nothing else to do."

"Have you had lunch yet?"

"No, but I don't want any; just let me be, please."

Helen expected the woman to protest, but she did not. She turned away, and the girl sank back
upon the couch and covered her face again.

"Everything has gone wrong!" she groaned to herself, "I know I shall die of despair; I don't
want to be here all alone with Mr. Harrison coming here. Dear me, I wish I had never seen him!"

And Helen's nervous impatience grew upon her, until she could stand it no more, and she sprang
up and began pacing swiftly up and down the room; she was still doing that when she heard a
step in the hall and saw the faithful servant in the doorway with a tray of luncheon. Elizabeth
asked no questions about matters that did not concern her, but she regarded this as her province,
and she would pay no attention to Helen's protests. "You'll be ill if you don't eat," she vowed;
"you look paler than I ever saw you."

And so the girl sat down to attempt to please her, Elizabeth standing by and talking to her
in the meantime; but Helen was so wrapped up in her own thoughts that she scarcely heard a
word--until the woman chanced to ask one question: "Did you hear about Mr. Arthur?"

And Helen gazed up at her. "Hear about him?" she said, "hear what about him?"

"He's very ill," said Elizabeth. Helen gave a start.

"Ill!" she gasped.

"Yes," said Elizabeth, "I thought you must know; Mr. Davis was over to see him yesterday."

"What is the matter?"

"The doctor said he must have been fearfully run down, and he was out in the storm and caught
a cold; and he's been in a very bad way, delirious and unconscious by turns for two or three days."

Helen was staring at the servant in a dumb fright. "Tell me, Elizabeth," she cried, scarcely
able to say the words, "he is not dangerously ill?"

"The danger is over now," the other answered, "so the doctor said, or else Mr. Davis would
never have left; but he's in a bad way and it may be some time before he's up again."

Perhaps it was the girl's overwrought condition that made her more easily alarmed just then,
for she was trembling all over as she heard those words. She had forgotten Arthur almost entirely
during the past two days, and he came back to her at that moment as another thorn in her conscience.

"Mr. Davis said he wrote you to go and see him," went on the servant; "shall you, Miss Helen?"

"I--I don't know," said Helen faintly, "I'll see."

As a matter of fact, she knew that she almost certainly would not go to see Arthur after what
had just passed; even to have him find out about it was something of which she simply could
not think. She felt dread enough at having to tell her father of what had occurred with Mr.
Harrison, and to see Arthur, even though he did not know about it, she knew was not in her power.

"Perhaps I ought not to have told you about it until after you had had your lunch; you are
not eating anything, Miss Helen."

"I don't want anything," said Helen, mournfully; "take it now, please, Elizabeth, and please
do not trouble me any more. I have a great deal to worry me."

When the woman had left the room, Helen shut the door and then sat down on a chair, staring
blankly before her; there was a mirror just across the room, and her own image caught her eye,
startling her by its pale and haggard look.

"Dear me, it's dreadful!" she cried aloud, springing up. "Why did I let people trouble me in
this way? I can't help Arthur, and I couldn't have helped him in the beginning. It's every
bit of it his own fault, and I don't see why I should let it make me ill. And it's the same
with the other thing; I could have been happy without all that wealth if I'd never seen it,
and now I know I'll never be happy again,--oh, I know it!"

And Helen began once more pacing up and down.

"I never was this way before in my life," she cried with increasing vexation, "and I won't
have it!"

She clenched her hands angrily, struggling within herself to shake off what was tormenting
her. But she might as well have tried to shake off a mountain from her shoulders; hers had
been none of the stern experience that gives power and command to the character, and of the
kind of energy that she needed she had none, and not even a thought of it. She tried only to
forget her troubles in some of her old pleasures, and when she found that she could not read,
and that the music she tried to play sounded hollow and meaningless, she could only fling herself
down upon the sofa with a moan. There, realizing her own impotence, she sank into dull despair,
unable any longer to realize the difficulties which troubled her, and with only one certainty
in her mind--that she was more lost and helpless than she had ever thought it possible for
her to be.

Time is not a thing of much consequence under such circumstances, and it was a couple of hours
before Helen was aroused. She heard a carriage stop at the door, and sprang up in alarm, with
the thought that it might be Mr. Harrison. But as she stood trembling in the middle of the
room she heard a voice inquiring for her, and recognized it as that of her aunt; a moment later
Mrs. Roberts rushed into the room, and catching sight of Helen, flung her arms eagerly about her.

"My dear girl," she cried, "Mr. Harrison has just told me about what has happened!" And then
as she read her niece's state of mind in her countenance, she added, "I expected to find you
rejoicing, Helen; what is the matter?"

In point of fact the woman had known pretty well just how she would find Helen, and having
no idea of leaving her to her own tormenting fancies, she had driven over the moment she had
finished her lunch. "I received your father's letter," she said, without waiting for Helen
to answer her, "so I came right over to take you back."

"To take me back!" echoed Helen.

"Yes, my dear; you don't suppose I mean to leave you here all alone by yourself, do you? And
especially at such a time as this, when Mr. Harrison wants to see you?"

"But, Aunt Polly," protested Helen, "I don't want to see him!"

"Don't want to see him? Why, my dear girl, you have promised to be his wife!"

Mrs. Roberts saw Helen shudder slightly, and so she went on quickly, "He is going to stay at
the hotel in the village; you won't find it the same as being in the house with him. But I
do assure you, child, there never was a man more madly in love than he is."

"But, Auntie, dear, that Mr. Howard, too!" protested Helen, trembling.

"He will not interfere with you, for he never makes any noise; and you'll not know he's there.
Of course, you won't play the piano, but you can do anything else you choose. And Mr. Harrison
will probably take you driving every day." Then seeing how agitated Helen was, her aunt put
her arms around her again, and led her to the sofa. "Come, Helen," she said," I don't blame
you for being nervous. I know just how you feel, my dear."

"Oh, Aunt Polly!" moaned the girl. "I am so wretched!"

"I know," laughed Aunt Polly; "it's the idea of having to marry him, I suppose; I felt the
very same way when I was in your place. But you'll find that wears off very quickly; you'll
get used to seeing him. And besides, you know that you've got to marry him, if you want any
of the other happiness!"

And Mrs. Roberts stopped and gazed about her. "Think, for instance, my dear," she went on,
"of having to be content with this dingy little room, after having seen that magnificent place
of his! Do you know, Helen, dear, that I really envy you; and it seems quite ridiculous to
come over here and find you moping around. One would think you were a hermit and did not care
anything about life."

"I do care about it," said the other, "and I love beautiful things and all; but, Aunt Polly,
I can't help thinking it's dreadful to have to marry."

"Come and learn to like Mr. Harrison," said the other, cheerfully. "Helen, you are really too
weak to ruin your peace of mind in this way; for you could see if you chose that all your troubles
are of your own making, and that if you were really determined to be happy, you could do it.
Why don't you, dear?"

"I don't know," protested the girl, faintly; "perhaps I am weak, but I can't help it."

"Of course not," laughed the other, "if you spend your afternoons shut up in a half-dark room
like this. When you come with me you won't be able to do that way; and I tell you you'll find
there's nothing like having social duties and an appearance to maintain in the world to keep
one cheerful. If you didn't have me at your elbow I really believe you'd go all to pieces."

"I fear I should," said the girl; but she could not help laughing as she allowed herself to
be led upstairs, and to have the dust bathed from her face and the wrinkles smoothed from her
brow. In the meantime her diplomatic aunt was unobtrusively dropping as many hints as she could
think of to stir Helen to a sense of the fact that she had suddenly become a person of consequence;
and whether it was these hints or merely the reaction natural to Helen, it is certain that
she was much calmer when she went down to the carriage, and much more disposed to resign herself
to meeting Mr. Harrison again. And Mrs. Roberts was correspondingly glad that she had been
foreseeing enough to come and carry her away; she had great confidence in her ability to keep
Helen from foolish worrying, and to interest her in the great future that was before her.

"And then it's just as well that she should be at my house where she can find the comfort that
she loves," she reflected. "I can see that she learns to love it more every day."

The great thing, of course, was to keep her ambition as much awake as possible, and so during
the drive home Mrs. Roberts' conversation was of the excitement which the announcement of Helen's
engagement would create in the social world, and of the brilliant triumph which the rest of
her life would be, and of the vast preparations which she was to make for it. The trousseau
soon came in for mention then; and what woman could have been indifferent to a trousseau, even
for a marriage which she dreaded? After that the conversation was no longer a task, for Helen's
animation never failed to build itself up when it was once awake; she was so pleased and eager
that the drive was over before she knew it, and before she had had time for even one unpleasant
thought about meeting Mr. Harrison.

It proved not to be a difficult task after all, for Mr. Harrison was quiet and dignified, and
even a little reserved, as Helen thought, so that it occurred to her that perhaps he was offended
at the vehemence with which she had repelled him. She did not know, but it seemed to her that
perhaps it might have been his right to embrace her after she had promised to marry him; the
thought made her shudder, yet she felt sure that if she had asked her aunt she would have learned
that she was very much in the wrong indeed. Helen's conscience was very restless just at that
time, and it was pleasant to be able to lull it by being a little more gracious and kind to
her ardent lover. The latter of course responded joyfully, so that the remainder of the afternoon
passed quite pleasantly.

When Mr. Roberts arrived and had been acquainted with the tidings, he of course sought the
first opportunity to see the girl, and to congratulate her upon her wonderful fortune. Helen
had always found in her uncle a grave, business-like person, who treated her with indifference,
and therefore inspired her with awe; it was not a little stirring to her vanity to find that
she was now a person of sufficient consequence to reverse the relation. This fact did yet a
little more to make her realize the vastness of her sudden conquest, and so throughout dinner
she was almost as exulting in her own heart as she had been at the same time on the previous day.

Her animation mounted throughout the evening, for Mr. Harrison and her aunt talked of the future--of
endless trips abroad, and of palatial houses and royal entertainments at home--until the girl
was completely dazed. Afterwards, when she and Mr. Harrison were left alone, Helen fascinated
her companion as completely as ever, and was radiant herself, and rejoicing. As if to cap the
climax, Mr. Harrison broached the subject of a trip to New York, to see if she could find anything
at the various picture dealers to suit her music room, and also of a visit to Fairview to meet
an architect and discuss her plan there.

The girl went up to her room just as completely full of exultation as she had been upon the
night before, yet more comfortable in the conviction that there would be no repetition of that
night's worry. Yet even as the thought occurred to her, it made her tremble; and as if some
fiend had arranged it especially for her torment, as she passed down the hall a nurse came
silently out of one of the rooms, and through the half open doorway Helen fancied that she
heard a low moan. She shuddered and darted into her own room and locked the door; yet that
did not exclude the image of the sufferer, or keep it from suggesting a train of thought that
plunged the girl into misery. It made her think of Arthur, and of the haggard look that had
been upon his face when he left her; and all Helen's angry assertions that it was not her fault
could not keep her from tormenting herself after that. Always the fact was before her that
however sick he might be, even dying, she could never bear to see him again, and so Arthur
became the embodiment of her awakening conscience.

The result was that the girl slept very little that night, spending half of it in fact alternately
sitting in a chair and pacing the room in agitation, striving in vain to find some gleam of
light to guide her out of the mazes in which she was lost. The gray dawn found her tossing
feverishly about upon her pillow, yearning for the time when she had been happy, and upbraiding
herself for having been drawn into her present trouble.

When she arose later on, she was more pale and wearied than she had been upon the morning before;
then she had at least possessed a resolution, while this time she was only helpless and despairing.
Thus her aunt found her when she came in to greet her, and the dismay of the worthy matron
may be imagined.

However, being an indefatigable little body, she set bravely to work again; first of all, by
rebuking the girl for her weakness she managed to rouse her to effort once more, and then by
urging the necessity of seeing people and of hiding her weakness, she managed to obtain at
last a semblance of cheerfulness. In the meantime Mrs. Roberts was helping her to dress and
to remove all traces of her unhappiness, so that when Helen descended to breakfast she had
received her first lesson in one of the chief tasks of the social regime:

  "Full many in the silent night
    Have wept their grief away;
  And in the morn you fancy
    Their hearts were ever gay."

And Helen played her part so well that Mrs. Roberts was much encouraged, and beamed upon her
across the table. As a, matter of fact, because her natural happiness was not all crushed,
and because playing a part was not easy to the girl, she was very soon interested in the various
plans that were being discussed. When Mr. Harrison called later on and proposed a drive, she
accepted with genuine pleasure.

To be sure, she found it a trifle less thrilling than on the day before, for the novelty was
gone; but that fact did not cause her much worry. In all her anticipations of the pleasure
before her, it had occurred to her as little as it occurs to others in her situation to investigate
the laws of the senses through which the pleasure is to be obtained. There is a whole moral
philosophy to be extracted from the little word "ennui" by those who know; but Helen was not
of the knowing. She believed that when she was tired of the horses she could delight herself
with her beautiful house, and that when she was tired of the house she could have a new one.
All her life she had been deriving ecstasy from beautiful things, from dresses, and flowers,
and books, and music, and pictures; and of course it was only necessary to have an infinite
quantity of such things in order to be infinitely happy. The way to have the infinite quantity
was to marry Mr. Harrison, or at any rate that was Helen's view, and she was becoming more
and more irritated because it did not work well in practice, and more and more convinced that
her aunt must be right in blaming her weakness.

In the meantime, being in the open air and among all the things that she loved, she was bound
to rejoice once more; and rejoice she did, not even allowing herself to be hindered by Mr.
Harrison's too obvious failures to comprehend her best remarks. Helen argued that she was not
engaged to the man because of his cleverness, and that when she had come to the infinite happiness
towards which she was traveling so fast, she would have inspiration enough for two. She had
enough for the present to keep them both happy throughout the drive, and when she returned
she found that some of the neighbors had driven over to see her, and to increase her excitement
by their congratulations. The Machiavellian Aunt Polly had told the news to several friends
on the day before, knowing full well that it would spread during the night, and that Helen
would have her first taste of triumph the next day.

And so it continued, and exactly as on the night before, the feverish excitement swept Helen
on until the bedtime hour arrived. Then she went up into her room alone, to wrestle with the
same dreadful specter as before.

The story of that day was the story of all that followed; Helen was destined to find that she
might sweep herself away upon the wings of her ambition as often as she chose, and revel all
she pleased in the thought of Mr. Harrison's wealth; but when the excitement was over, and
she came to be all alone, she could think only of the one dreadful fact of the necessity of
marrying him. She was paying a Faustus price for her happiness; and in the night time the price
stared at her, and turned all her happiness to misery.

A state of mind such as this was so alien to Helen that it would have been strange indeed if
she had sunk into it without protest and rebellion; as day after day passed, and the misery
continued, her dissatisfaction with everything about her built itself into a climax; more and
more plainly she was coming to see the widening of the gulf between the phantom she was pursuing
and the place, where she stood. Finally there came one day, nearly a week after her engagement,
when Helen was so exhausted and so wretched that she had made up her mind to remain in her
room, and had withstood all her aunt's attempts to dissuade her. She had passed the morning
in bed, between equally vain attempts to become interested in a book and to make up for the
sleep she had missed during the night, and was just about giving up both in despair when the
maid entered to say that Elizabeth wished to see her. Helen gave a start, for she knew that
something must be wrong; when the woman entered she asked breathlessly what it was.

"It's about Mr. Arthur," was the hurried reply, and Helen turned paler than ever, and clutched
the bedclothing in her trembling hands.

"What is it?" she cried.

"Why you know, Miss Helen," said Elizabeth, "your father wrote me to go and see him whenever
I could, and I've just come from there this morning."

"And how is he?"

"He looked dreadful, but he had gotten up to-day, and he was sitting by the window when I came
in. He was hardly a shadow of himself."

Helen was trembling. "You have not been to see him?" asked the woman.

"No," said Helen, faintly, "I--" and then she stopped.

"Why not?" Elizabeth inquired anxiously.

"He did not ask for me, did he?" asked the girl, scarcely able to utter the words.

"No," said the woman, "but you know, everybody told me you were engaged to a rich man--"

And Helen started forwrard with a cry. "Elizabeth!" she gasped, "you--you didn't---!"

"Yes," said the other, "I told him." And then seeing the girl's look of terror, she stopped
short. Helen stared at her for fully half a minute without uttering a word; and then the woman
went on, slowly, "It was very dreadful, Miss Helen; he went almost crazy, and I was so frightened
that I didn't know what I should do. Please tell me what is the matter."

Helen was still gazing dumbly at the woman, seeming not to have heard the last question. "I--I
can't tell you," she said, when it was repeated again; "you ought not to have told him, Elizabeth."

"Miss Helen," cried the woman, anxiously, "you must do something! For I am sure that I know
what is the matter; he loves you, and you must know it, too. And it will certainly kill him;
weak as he was, he rushed out of the house, and I could not find him anywhere. Miss Helen,
you must go and see him!"

The girl sat with the same look of helpless fright upon her face, and with her hands clenched
tightly between her knees; the other went on talking hurriedly, but Helen scarcely heard anything
after that; her mind was too full of its own thoughts. It was several minutes more before she
even noticed that the woman was still insisting that she must go to see Artheur. "Please leave
me now!" she cried wildly; "please leave me! I cannot explain anything,--I want to be alone!"
And when the door was shut she became once more dumb and motionless, staring blankly ahead
of her, a helpless victim of her own wretched thoughts.

"That is the end of it," she groaned to herself; "oh, that is the end of it!"

Winkt dir nicht hold die hehre Burg?

CHAPTER VIII

  Thou would'st be happy,
  Endlessly happy,
  Or endlessly wretched.

Helen was quite powerless to do anything whatever after that last piece of misfortune; it seemed
as if she could have remained just where she was for hours, shuddering at the sight of what
was happening, yet utterly helpless before it. The world was taking a very serious aspect indeed
to the bright and laughing girl, who had thought of it as the home of birds and flowers; yet
she knew not what to make of the change, or how she was to blame for it, and she could only
sit still and tremble. She was in the same position and the same state of mind when her aunt
entered the room some minutes later.

Mrs. Roberts stood watching her silently, and then as Helen turned her gaze of pleading misery
upon her, she came forward and sat down in a chair by the bedside, and fixed her keen eyes
upon the girl.

"Oh, Aunt Polly!" cried Helen; "what am I to do? I am so wretched!"

"I have just been talking to Elizabeth," said Mrs. Roberts, with some sternness, "and she's
been telling you about Arthur--is that what is the matter with you, Helen?"

"Yes," was the trembling response, "what can I do?"

"Tell me, Helen, in the first place," demanded the other. "When you saw Arthur that day in
the woods, what did you do? Did you make him any promises?"

"No, Auntie."

"Did you hold out any hopes to him? Did you say anything to him at all about love?"

"I--I told him it was impossible," said Helen, eagerly, clutching at that little crumb of comfort.

"Then in Heaven's name, child," cried the other in amazement, "what is the matter with you?
If Arthur chooses to carry on in this fashion, why in the world should you punish yourself
in this horrible way? What is the matter with you, Helen? Are you responsible to him for your
marriage? I don't know which is the most absurd, the boy's behavior, or your worrying about it."

"But, Auntie," stammered the girl, "he is so ill--he might die!"

"Die, bosh!" exclaimed Mrs. Roberts; "he frightened Elizabeth by his ravings; it is the most
absurd nonsense,--he a penniless school-teacher, and the Lord only knows what besides! I only
wish I'd been there to talk to him, for I don't think he'd have frightened me! What in the
world do you suppose he wants, anyway? Is he mad enough to expect you to marry him?"

"I don't know, Aunt Polly," said Helen, weakly.

"I'd never have believed that Arthur could be capable of anything so preposterous as this behavior,"
vowed Mrs. Roberts; "and then to come up here and find you wearing yourself to a skeleton about
it!"

"It isn't only that, Auntie," protested Helen, "there is so much else; I am miserable!"

"Yes," said the other, grimly; "I see it as well as you, and there's just about as much reason
in any of it as in the matter of Arthur." Then Mrs. Roberts moved her chair nearer, and after
gazing at Helen for a moment, began again. "I've been meaning to say something to you, and
it might just as well be said now. For all this matter is coming to a climax, Helen; it can't
go on this way very much longer, for you'll kill yourself. It's got to be settled one way or
the other, once and for all." And Mrs. Roberts stopped and took a deep breath, preparing for
one more struggle; Helen still gazed at her helplessly.

"I'm not going to say anything more about Arthur," declared the woman; "if you choose to torment
yourself about such absurdities, I can't help it. Arthur's behavior is not the least your fault,
and you know it; but all the other trouble is your fault, and there's nobody else to blame.
For the question is just as simple as the day, Helen, and you must see it and decide it; you've
got to choose between one of two things, either to marry Mr. Harrison or to give him up; and
there's no excuse for your hesitating and tormenting yourself one day longer."

Then the indomitable woman set to work at her old task of conjuring up before the girl's eyes
all the allurements that had so often made her heart throb; she, pictured Fairview and all
its luxuries, and the admiration and power that must be hers when she was mistress of it; and
she mentioned every other source of pleasure that she knew would stir Helen's eager thirst.
After having hammered away at that theme until she saw signs of the effect she desired, she
turned to the other side of the picture.

"Helen," she demanded, "is it really possible for you to think of giving up these things and
going back to live in that miserable little house at Oakdale? Can you not see that you would
be simply burying yourself alive? You might just as well be as ugly as those horrible Nelson
girls across the way. Helen, you know you belong to a different station in life than those
people! You know you have a right to some of the beautiful things in the world, and you know
that after this vision of everything perfect that you have seen, you can never possibly be
happy in your ignorant girlish way again. You have promised Mr. Harrison to marry him, and
made him go to all the expense that he has; and you've told everybody you know, and all the
world is talking about your triumph; and you've had Mr. Roberts go to all the trouble he has
about your trousseau,--surely, Helen, you cannot dream of changing your mind and giving all
this up. It is ridiculous to talk about it."

"I don't want to give it up," protested the girl, moaning, "but, oh, I can't--"

"I know!" exclaimed the other. "I've heard all that a thousand times. Don't you see, Helen,
that you've simply got to marry him! There is no other possibility to think of, and all of
your weakness is that you don't perceive that fact, and make up your mind to it. Just see how
absurd you are, to make yourself ill in this way."

"But I can't help it, Auntie, indeed I can't!"

"You could help it if you wanted to," vowed the other. "I am quite disgusted with you. I have
told you a thousand times that this is all an imaginary terror that you are conjuring up for
yourself, to ruin your health and happiness. When you have married him you will see that it's
just as I tell you, and you'll laugh at yourself for feeling as you did."

"But it's in the, meantime, Aunt Polly--it's having to think about it that frightens me."

"Well, let me tell you one thing," said Mrs. Roberts; "if I found that I couldn't cure myself
of such weakness as this, sooner than let it ruin my life and make everyone about me wretched,
I'd settle the matter right now and forever; I'd marry him within a week, Helen!" And the resolute
little woman clenched her hands grimly. "Yes, I would," she exclaimed, "and if I found I hadn't
strength enough to hold my resolution, I'd marry him to-morrow, and there'd be an end to it!"

"You don't realize, Helen, how you treat Mr. Harrison," she went on, as the girl shuddered;
"and how patient he is. You'd not find many men like him in that respect, my dear. For he's
madly in love with you, and you treat him as coldly as if he were a stranger. I can see that,
for I watch you, and I can see how it offends him. You have promised to be his wife, Helen,
and yet you behave in this ridiculous way. You are making yourself ill, and you look years
older every day, yet you make not the least attempt to conquer yourself."

So she went on, and Helen began to feel more and more that she was doing a very great wrong
indeed. Mrs. Roberts' sharp questioning finally drew from her the story of her reception of
Mr. Harrison's one kiss, and Helen was made to seem quite ridiculous and even rude in her own
eyes; her aunt lectured her with such unaccustomed sternness that she was completely frightened,
and came to look upon her action as the cause of all the rest of her misery.

"It's precisely on that account that you still regard him as a stranger," Mrs. Roberts vowed;
"of course he makes no more advances, and you might go on forever in that way." Helen promised
that the next time she was alone with Mr. Harrison she would apologize for her rudeness, and
treat him in a different manner.

"I wish," Mrs. Roberts went on, "that I could only make you see as plainly as I see, Helen,
how very absurd your conduct is. Day by day you are filling your mind with the thought of the
triumph that is to be yours, so that it takes hold of you and becomes all your life to you;
and all the time you know that to possess it there is one thing which you have got to do. And
instead of realizing the fact and reconciling yourself to it, you sit down and torment yourself
as if you were a creature without reason or will. Can you not see that you must be wretched?"

"Yes, I see," said Helen, weakly.

"You see it, but you make no effort to do anything else! You make me almost give you up in
despair. You will not see that this weakness has only to be conquered once, and that then your
life can be happy!"

"But, Auntie, dear," exclaimed Helen, "it is so hard!"

"Anything in life would be hard for a person who had no more resolution than you," responded
the other. "Because you know nothing about the world, you fancy you are doing something very
unusual and dreadful; but I assure you it's what every girl has to do when she marries in society.
And there's no one of them but would laugh at your behavior; you just give Mr. Harrison up,
and see how long it would be before somebody else would take him! Oh, child, how I wish I could
give you a little of my energy; you would go to the life that is before you in a very different
way, I promise you! For really the only way that you can have any happiness in the world is
to be strong and take it, and if you once had a purpose and some determination you would feel
like a different person. Make up your mind what you wish to do, Helen, and go and do it, and
take hold of yourself and master yourself, and show what you are made of!"

Aunt Polly was quite sublime as she delivered that little exordium; and to the girl, anxious
as she was for her old strength and happiness, the words were like music. They made her blood
flow again, and there was a light in her eyes.

"Oh, Auntie," she said, "I'll try to."

"Try!" echoed the other, "what comes of all your trying? You have been reveling for a week
in visions of what is to be yours; and that ought surely to have been enough time for you to
make up your mind; and yet every time that I find you alone, all your resolution is gone; you
simply have no strength, Helen!"

"Oh, I will have it!" cried the girl; "I don't mean to do this way any more; I never saw it
so plainly."

"You see it now, because I'm talking to you, and you always do see it then. But I should think
the very terror of what you have suffered would serve as a motive, and make you quite desperate.
Can you not see that your very safety depends upon your taking this resolution and keeping
it, and not letting go of it, no matter what happens? From what I've seen of you, Helen, I
know that if you do not summon all your energies together, and fling aside every purpose but
this, and act upon it now, while you feel it so keenly, you will surely fail. For anybody can
withstand a temptation for a while, when his mind is made up; all the trouble is in keeping
it made up for a long time. I tell you if I found I was losing, sooner than surrender I would
do anything, absolutely anything!"

Mrs. Roberts had many more words of that heroic kind; she was a vigorous little body, and she
was quite on fire with enthusiasm just then, and with zeal for the consummation of the great
triumph. Perhaps there is no occupation of men quite without its poetry, and even a society
leader may attain to the sublime in her devotion to life as she sees it. Besides that the over-zealous
woman was exalted to eloquence just then by a feeling that she was nearer her goal than ever
before, and that she had only to spur Helen on and keep her in her present glow to clinch the
matter; for the girl was very much excited indeed, and showed both by what she said and by
the change in her behavior that she was determined to have an end to her own wretchedness and
to conquer her shrinking from her future husband at any cost. During all the time that she
was dressing, her aunt was stirring her resolution with the same appeal, so that Helen felt
that she had never seen her course so clearly before, or had so much resolution to follow it.
She spread out her arms and drank deep breaths of relief because she was free from her misery,
and knew how to keep so; and at the same time, because she still felt tremblings of fear, she
clenched her hands in grim earnestness. When she was ready to descend she was flushed and trembling
with excitement, and quite full of her resolution. "She won't have to go very far," Mrs. Roberts
mused, "for the man is madly in love with her."

"I want you to look as beautiful as you can, dear," she said aloud, by way of changing the
subject; "besides Mr. Harrison, there'll be another visitor at lunch to-day."

"A stranger?" echoed Helen.

"You remember, dear, when I told you of Mr. Howard I spoke of a third person who was coming--Lieutenant
Maynard?"

"Oh, yes," said the girl; "is he here?"

"Just until the late train this evening," answered the other. "He got his leave as he expected,
but of course he didn't want to come while Mr. Howard was so ill."

Helen remembered with a start having heard someone say that Mr. Howard was better. "Auntie,"
she cried, "he won't be at lunch, will he? I don't want to see him."

"He won't, dear," was the reply; "the doctor said he could leave his room to-day, but it will
be afterwards, when you have gone driving with Mr. Harrison."

"And will he leave soon?" asked Helen, shuddering; the mention of the invalid's name had instantly
brought to her mind the thought of Arthur.

"He will leave to-morrow, I presume; he probably knows he has caused us trouble enough," answered
Mrs. Roberts; and then reading Helen's thought, and seeing a sign upon her face of the old
worry, she made haste to lead her down the stairs.

Helen found Mr. Harrison in conversation with a tall, distinguished-looking man in naval uniform,
to whom she was introduced by her aunt; the girl saw that the officer admired her, which was
only another stimulant to her energies, so that she was at her cleverest during the meal that
followed. She accepted the invitation of Mr. Harrison to go with him to Fairview during the
afternoon, and after having been in her room all the morning, she was looking forward to the
drive with no little pleasure, as also--to the meeting with the architect whom Mr. Harrison
said would be there.

It seemed once as if the plan were to be interrupted, and as if her excitement and resolution
were to come to naught, for a telegram arrived for Mr. Harrison, and he announced that he was
called away to New York upon some business. But as it proved, this was only another circumstance
to urge her on in carrying out her defiant resolution, for Mr. Harrison added that he would
not have to leave until the evening, and her aunt gazed at the girl significantly, to remind
her of how little time there was. Helen felt her heart give a sudden leap, and felt a disagreeable
trembling seize upon her; her animation became more feverish yet in consequence.

After the luncheon, when she ran up for her hat and gloves, her aunt followed her, but Helen
shook her off with a laughing assurance that everything would be all right, and then ran out
into the hallway; she did not go on, however, for something that she saw caused her to spring
quickly back, and turn pale.

"What is it?" whispered her aunt, as Helen put her finger to her lips.

"It's he!" replied the girl, shuddering; "wait!"

"He" was the unfortunate invalid, who was passing down the hallway upon the arm of Lieutenant
Maynard; Helen shook her head at all her aunt's laughing protests, and could not be induced
to leave the room until the two had passed on; then she ran down, and leaving the house by
another door, sprang into the carriage with Mr. Harrison and was whirled away, waving a laughing
good-by to her aunt.

The fresh air and the swift motion soon completed the reaction from Helen's morning unhappiness;
and as generally happened when she was much excited, her imagination carried her away in one
of her wild flights of joy, so that her companion was as much lost as ever in admiration and
delight. Helen told him countless stories, and made countless half-comprehended witticisms,
and darted a great many mischievous glances which were comprehended much better; when they
had passed within the gates of Fairview, being on private land she felt even less need of restraint,
and sang "Dich, theure Halle, gruss' ich wieder!" and laughed at her own cleverness quite as
much as if her companion had understood it all.

After that it was a new delight to discover that work was progressing rapidly upon the trimming
of the forest and the turning of the grass-grown road into a broad avenue; likewise the "hay
crop" was in, and the lawn plowed and raked and ready for grass seed, and the undesirable part
of the old furniture carted away,--all of which things Helen knew had been done according to
her commands. And scarcely had all this been appreciated properly before the architect arrived;
Helen was pleased with him because for one thing he was evidently very much impressed by her
beauty, and for another because he entered so understandingly into all her ideas. He and the
girl spent a couple of the happiest hours in discussing the details of the wonderful music
room, a thing which seemed to her more full of delightful possibilities than any other in all
her radiant future; it was a sort of a child's dream to her, with a fairy godmother to make
it real, and her imagination ran riot in a vision of banks of flowers, and of paintings of
all things that embody the joys of music, the "shapes that haunt thought's wildernesses." At
night the whole was to be illuminated in such a way as to give these verisimilitude, and in
the daytime it would be no less beautiful, because it was to be almost all glass upon two sides.
Helen was rejoiced that the architect realized the importance of the fact that "a music room
ought to be out of doors;" and then as she made the further welcome discovery that the moon
would shine into it, she vowed eagerly that there would be no lights at all in her music room
at those times. Afterwards she told a funny story of how Schumann had been wont to improvise
under such circumstances, until his next-door neighbor was so struck by the romance of it that
he proceeded to imitate it, and to play somebody or other's technical studies whenever the
moon rose; at which narrative Helen and the architect laughed very heartily, and Mr. Harrison
with them, though he would not have known the difference between a technical study and the
"Moonlight Sonata."

Altogether, Helen was about as happy as ever throughout that afternoon, tho one who watched
her closely might have thought there was something nervous about her animation, especially
later on, when the talk with the architect was nearing its end; Helen's eyes had once or twice
wandered uneasily about the room, and when finally the man rose to leave, she asked him with
a sudden desperate resolution to look over the rest of the rooms and see what he thought of
her suggestions. The latter expressed himself as pleased to oblige her, but he would probably
have been somewhat chagrined had he known how little Helen really attended to his remarks;
her mind was in a whirl, and all that he said sounded distant and vague; her one wish was that
he might stay and give her time to think.

But Helen found the uselessness of shrinking, and the time came at last when she saw to her
despair that there was no more to say, and that the man must go. In a few minutes more he was
actually gone, and she was left all alone in the great house with Mr. Harrison.

The two went back into the dining room, where Mr. Harrison stood leaning his hand upon the
table, and Helen stood in front of him, her lips trembling. Twice she made a faint attempt
to speak, and then she turned and began pacing up and down the room in agitation. Mr. Harrison
was watching her, seeing that there was something on her mind, and also that her emotion made
her more beautiful and more disturbing to him than ever.

At last Helen went and sat down upon a sofa at one side, and clenching her hands very tightly
about her knees, looked up at him and said, in a faint voice, "I had something to say to you,
Mr. Harrison." Then she stopped, and her eyes fell, and her breath came very hard.

"What is it, dear?" asked Mr. Harrison gently.

And Helen's lips trembled more than ever, and her voice sank still lower as she said, "I--I
don't know how to begin."

The other was silent for a few moments more, after which he came slowly across the room and
sat down beside her.

"Helen," he said, "I had something to say to you also; suppose I say it first?"

The girl's chest was heaving painfully, and her heart throbbing violently, but she gazed into
his eyes, and smiled, and answered him "Very well." He took one of her burning hands in his,
and she made no resistance.

"Helen, dear," he said, "do you remember it was nearly a week ago that we stood in this same
room, and that you promised to be my wife? You were very cold to me then. I have been waiting
patiently for you to change a little, not venturing to say anything for fear of offending you.
But it is very hard--"

He had bent forward pleadingly, and his face was very close to hers, trying to read her heart.
Perhaps it was well that he could not, for it would have frightened him. The moment was one
of fearful suffering for Helen, tho there was no sign of it, except that she was trembling
like a leaf, and that her lips were white. There was just a moment of suspense, and then with
a cruel effort she mastered herself and gazed up at the man, a smile forcing itself to her
lips again.

"What is it that you wish?" she asked.

"I want you to care for me," the other said--"to love me just a little, Helen; will you?"

"I--I think so," was the reply, in a scarcely audible voice.

And Mr. Harrison pressed her hand in his and bent forward eagerly. "Then I may kiss you, dear?"
he asked; "you will not mind?"

And Helen bowed her head and answered, "No." In this same instant, as she sank forward the
man clasped her in his arms; he pressed her upon his bosom, and covered her cheeks and forehead
with his passionate, burning kisses. Helen, crushed and helpless in his grasp, felt a revulsion
of feeling so sudden and so overwhelming that it was an agony to her, and she almost screamed
aloud. She was choking and shuddering, and her cheeks were on fire, while in the meantime Mr.
Harrison, almost beside himself with passion, pressed her tighter to him and poured out his
protestations of devotion. Helen bore it until she was almost mad with the emotion that had
rushed over her, and then she made a wild effort to tear herself free. Her hair was disordered,
and her face red, and her whole being throbbing with shame, but he still held her in his tight
embrace.

"You are not angry, Helen dear?" he asked.

"No," the girl gasped

"You told me that I might kiss you," he said; and she was so choking with her emotion that
she could not answer a word, she could only shudder and submit to his will. And Mr. Harrison,
supposing that her emotions were very different from what they were, rested her head upon his
shoulder, smoothing back her tangled hair and whispering into her ear how beautiful she was
beyond any dream of his, and how the present moment was the happiest of his lifetime.

"I thought it would never come, dear," he said, kissing her forehead again, "you were so very
cold." Helen had not yet ceased fighting the fearful battle in her own heart, and so as he
looked into her eyes, she gazed up at him and forced another ghastly smile to her lips: they
looked so very beautiful that Mr. Harrison kissed them again and again, and he would probably
have been content to kiss them many times more, and to forget everything else in the bliss,
had Helen been willing.

But she felt just then that if the strain continued longer she would go mad; with a laugh that
was half hysterical, she tore herself loose by main force, and sprang up, reminding the other
that he had a train to catch. Mr. Harrison demurred, but the girl would hear no more, and she
took him by the hand and led him to the door, still laughing, and very much flushed and excited,
so that he thought she was happier than ever. It would have startled him could he have seen
her as he went to call for the horses,--how she staggered and clung to a pillar for support,
as white as the marble she leaned against.

He did not see her, however, and when the two were driving rapidly away she was as vivacious
as ever; Helen had fought yet one more conflict, and her companion was not skilled enough in
the study of character to perceive that it was a desperate and hysterical kind of animation.
Poor Helen was facing gigantic shadows just then, and life wore its most fearful and menacing
look to her; she had plunged so far in her contest that it was now a battle for life and death,
and with no quarter. She had made the choice of "Der Atlas," of endless joy or endless sorrow,
and in her struggle to keep the joy she was becoming more and more frantic, more and more terrified
at the thought of the other possibility.

And so all through the ride, because the girl's shame and fear haunted her more and more, she
became more and more hysterical, and more and more desperate; and Mr. Harrison thought that
he had never seen her so brilliant, and so daring, and so inspired; nor did he have the least
idea how fearfully overwrought she was, until suddenly as they came to a fork in the road he
took a different one than she expected, and she clutched him wildly by the arm. "Why do you
do that?" she almost screamed. "Stop!"

"What?" he asked in surprise. "Take this road?"

"Yes!" exclaimed Helen. "Stop! Stop!"

"But it's only half a mile or so farther," said Mr. Harrison, reining up his horses, "and I
thought you'd like the change."

"Yes," panted Helen, with more agitation than ever. "But I can't,--we'd have to go through
Hilltown!"

The wondering look of course did not leave the other's face at that explanation. "You object
to Hilltown?" he asked.

"Yes," said Helen, shuddering; "it is a horrible place."

"Why, I thought it was a beautiful town," laughed he. "But of course it is for you to say."
Then he gazed about him to find a place to turn the carriage. "We'll have to go on a way,"
he said. "The road is too narrow here. I'm sorry I didn't ask you, but I had no idea it made
any difference."

They continued, however, for fully a mile, and the road remained narrow, so that there was
danger of upsetting in the ditch if they tried to turn. "What do you wish me to do?" Mr. Harrison
asked with a smile. "The more we go on the longer it will take us if we are to go back, and
I may miss my train; is your prejudice against Hilltown so very strong, Miss Davis?"

"Oh, no," Helen answered, with a ghastly smile. "Pray go on; it's of no consequence."

As a matter of fact, it was of the greatest consequence; for that incident marked the turning
point of the battle in Helen's heart. Her power seemed to go from her with every turn of the
wheels that brought her nearer to that dreaded place, and she became more and more silent,
and more conscious of the fearful fact that her wretchedness was mastering her again. It seemed
to her terrified imagination as if everything was growing dark and threatening, as before the
breaking of a thunderstorm.

"You must indeed dislike Hilltown, Miss Davis," said her companion, smiling. "Why are you so
very silent?"

Helen made no reply; she scarcely heard him, in fact, so taken up was she with what was taking
place in her own mind; all her thoughts then were about Arthur and what had become of him,
and what he was thinking about her; and chiefest of all, because her cheeks and forehead had
a fearfully conscious feeling, what he would think, could he know what she had just been doing.
Thus it was that as the houses of Hilltown drew near, remorse and shame and terror were rising,
and her frantic protests against them were weakening, until suddenly every emotion was lost
in suspense, and the shadows of the great elm-trees that arched the main street of the town
closed them in. Helen knew the house where Arthur lodged, and knew that she should pass it
in another minute; she could do nothing but wait and watch and tremble.

The carriage rattled on, gazed at by many curious eyes, for everyone in Hilltown knew about
the young beauty and the prize she had caught; but Helen saw no one, and had eyes for only
one thing, the little white house where Arthur lodges. The carriage swept by and she saw no
one, but she saw that the curtain of Arthur's room was drawn, and she shuddered at the thought,
"Suppose he should be dying!" Yet it was a great load off her mind to have escaped seeing him,
and she was beginning to breathe again and ask herself if she still might not win the battle,
when the carriage came to the end of the town, and to a sight that froze her blood.

There was a tavern by the roadside, a low saloon that was the curse of the place, and she saw
from the distance a figure come out of the door. Her heart gave a fearful throb, for it was
a slender figure, clad in black, hatless and with disordered hair and clothing. In a moment
more, as Helen clutched the rail beside her and stared wildly, the carriage had swept on and
come opposite the man; and he glanced up into Helen's eyes, and she recognized the face, in
spite of all its ghastly whiteness and its sunken cheeks; it was Arthur!

There was just an instant's meeting of their looks, and then the girl was whirled on; but that
one glance was enough to leave her as if paralyzed. She made no sound, nor any movement, and
so her companion did not even know that anything had happened until they had gone half a mile
farther; then as he chanced to glance at her he reined up his horses with a cry.

"Helen!" he exclaimed. "What is the matter?" The girl clutched his arm so tightly that he winced,
powerful man that he was. "Take me home," she gasped. "Oh, quick, please take me home!"

CHAPTER IX

    "Peace! Sit you down,
  And let me wring your heart; for so I shall,
  If it be made of penetrable stuff."

Helen ran up to her room when she reached home, and shut herself in, and after that she had
nothing to do but suffer. All of her excitement was gone from her then, and with it every spark
of her strength; the fiends that had been pursuing her rose up and seized hold of her, and
lashed her until she writhed and cried aloud in agony. She was helpless to resist them, knowing
not which way to turn or what to do,--completely cowed and terrified. But there was no more
sinking into the dull despair that had mastered her before; the face of Arthur, as she had
seen it in that one glimpse, had been burned into her memory with fire, and she could not shut
it from her sight; when the fact that he had come from the tavern, and what that must mean
rose before her, it was almost more than she could bear, cry out as she might that she could
not help it, that she never could have helped it, that she had nothing to do with it. Moreover,
if there was any possibility of the girl's driving out that specter, there was always another
to take its place. It was not until she was alone in her room, until all her resolution was
gone, and all of her delusions, that she realized the actual truth about what she had done
that afternoon; it was like a nightmare to her then. She seemed always to feel the man's arms
clasping her, and whenever she thought of his kisses her forehead burned her like fire, so
that she flung herself down by the bedside, and buried it in the pillows.

It was thus that her aunt found her when she came in to call Helen to dinner; and this time
the latter's emotions were so real and so keen that there was no prevailing over them, or persuading
her to anything. "I don't want to eat!" she cried again and again in answer to her aunt's alarmed
insistence. "No, I am not coming down! I want to be alone! Alone, Aunt Polly--please leave
me alone!"

"But, Helen," protested Mrs. Roberts, "won't you please tell me what is the matter? What in
the world can have happened to you?"

"I can't tell you," the girl cried hysterically. "I want you to go and leave me alone!" And
she shut the door and locked it, and then began pacing wildly up and down the room, heedless
of the fact that her aunt was still standing out in the hallway; the girl was too deeply shaken
just then to have any thought about appearances.

She was thinking about Arthur again, and about his fearful plight; there rushed back upon her
all the memories of their childhood, and of the happiness which they had known together. The
thought of the broken figure which she had seen by the roadside became more fearful to her
every moment. It was not that it troubled her conscience, for Helen could still argue to herself
that she had done nothing to wrong her friend, that there had been nothing selfish in her attitude
towards him; she had wished him to be happy. It seemed to her that it was simply a result of
the cruel perversity of things that she had been trampling upon her friend's happiness in order
to reach her own, and that all her struggling had only served to make things worse. The fact
that it was not her fault, however, did not make the situation seem less tragic and fearful
to her; it had come to such a crisis now that it drove her almost mad to think about it, yet
she was completely helpless to know what to do, and as she strode up and down the room, she
clasped her hands to her aching head and cried aloud in her perplexity.

Then too her surging thoughts hurried on to another unhappiness,--to her father, and what he
would say when he learned the dreadful news. How could she explain it to him? And how could
she tell him about her marriage? At the mere thought of that the other horror seized upon her
again, and she sank down in a chair by the window and hid her face in her hands.

"Oh, how can I have done it?" she gasped to herself. "Oh, it was so dreadful! And what am I
to do now?"

That last was the chief question, the one to which all others led; yet it was one to which
she could find no answer. She was completely confused and helpless, and she exclaimed aloud
again and again, "Oh, if I could only find some one to tell me! I do not know how I can keep
Arthur from behaving in that dreadful way, and I know that I cannot ever marry Mr. Harrison!"

The more she tortured herself with these problems, the more agitated she became. She sat there
at the window, clutching the sill in her hands and staring out, seeing nothing, and knowing
only that the time was flying, and that her anxiety was building itself up and becoming an
agony which she could not bear.

"Oh, what am I to do?" she groaned again and again; and she passed hours asking herself the
fearful question; the twilight had closed about her, and the moon had risen behind the distant
hills.

So oblivious to all things about her was she, that she failed at first to notice something
else, something which would ordinarily have attracted her attention at once,--a sound of music
which came to her from somewhere near. It was the melody of Grieg's "An den Frubling" played
upon a violin, and it had stolen into Helen's heart and become part of her own stormy emotion
before she had even thought of what it was or whence it came. The little piece is the very
soul of the springtime passion, and to the girl it was the very utterance of all her yearning,
lifting her heart in a great throbbing prayer. When it had died away her hands were clenched
very tightly, and her breath was coming fast.

She remained thus for a minute, forgetful of everything; then at last she found herself thinking
"it must be Mr. Howard," and waiting to see if he would play again. But he did not do so, and
Helen sat in silence for a long time, her thoughts turned to him. She found herself whispering
"so he is a wonderful musician after all," and noticing that the memory of his wan face frightened
her no longer; it seemed just then that there could be no one in the world more wretched than
herself. She was only wishing that he would begin again, for that utterance of her grief had
seemed like a victory, and now in the silence she was sinking back into her despair. The more
she waited, the more impatient she grew, until suddenly she rose from her seat.

"He might play again if I asked him," she said to herself. "He would if he knew I was unhappy;
I wonder where he can be?"

Helen's window was in the front of the house, opening upon a broad lawn whose walks were marked
in the moonlight by the high shrubbery that lined them. Some distance beyond, down one of the
paths, were two summer-houses, and it seemed to her that the music had come from one of them,
probably the far one, for it had sounded very soft. No sooner had the thought come to her than
she turned and went quietly to the door. She ran quickly down the steps, and seeing her aunt
and Mr. Roberts upon the piazza, she turned and passed out by one of the side doors.

Helen had yielded to a sudden impulse in doing thus, drawn by her yearning for the music. When
she thought about it as she walked on it seemed to her a foolish idea, for the man could not
possibly know of her trouble, and moreover was probably with his friend the lieutenant. But
she did not stop even then, for her heart's hunger still drove her on, and she thought, "I'll
see, and perhaps he will play again without my asking; I can sit in the near summer-house and
wait."

She went swiftly on with that purpose in mind, not going upon the path, because she would have
been in the full moonlight, and in sight of the two upon the piazza. She passed silently along
by the high hedge, concealed in its shadows, and her footsteps deadened by the grass. She was
as quiet as possible, wishing to be in the summer-house without anyone's knowing it.

And she had come very close to it indeed, within a few yards, when suddenly she stopped short
with an inward exclamation; the silence of the twilight had been broken by a voice--one that
seemed almost beside her, and that startled her with a realization of the mistake she had made.
The two men were themselves in the house to which she had been going.

It was Mr. Howard's voice which she heard; he was speaking very low, almost in a whisper, yet
Helen was near enough to hear every word that he uttered.

"Most people would think it simply a happy and beautiful piece of music," he said. "Most people
think that of the springtime; but when a man has lived as I, he may find that the springtime
too is a great labor and a great suffering,--he does not forget that for the thousands of creatures
that win the great fight and come forth rejoicing, there are thousands and tens of thousands
that go down, and have their mite of life crushed out, and find the law very stern indeed.
Even those that win do it by a fearful effort, and cannot keep their beauty long; so that the
springtime passion takes on a kind of desperate intensity when one thinks of it."

The voice ceased again for a moment, and Helen stood gazing about her; the words were not without
a dimly-felt meaning to her just then, and the tone of the man's voice seemed like the music
she had heard him play. She would have liked to stay and listen, tho she knew that she had
no right to. She was certain that she had not been seen, because the little house was thickly
wrapped about with eglantine; and she stood, uncertain as to whether she ought to steal back
or go out and join the two men. In the meantime the voice began again:

"It gives a man a new feeling of the preciousness of life to know keenly what it means to fail,
to be like a tiny spark, struggling to maintain itself in the darkness, and finding that all
it can do is not sufficient, and that it is sinking back into nothingness forever. I think
that is the meaning of the wild and startled look that the creatures of the forest wear; and
it is a very tragic thing indeed to realize, and makes one full of mercy. If he knows his own
heart he can read the same thing in the faces of men, and he no longer even laughs at their
pride and their greediness, but sees them quite infinitely wretched and pitiable. I do not
speak merely of the poor and hopeless people, the hunted creatures of society; for this terror
is not merely physical. It is the same imperative of life that makes conscience, and so every
man knows it who has made himself a slave to his body, and sees the soul within him helpless
and sinking; and every man who has sinned and sees his evil stamped upon the face of things
outside him, in shapes of terror that must be forever. Strange as it may seem, I think the
man who lives most rightly, the man of genius, knows the feeling most of all, because his conscience
is the quickest. It is his task to live from his own heart, to take the power that is within
him and wrestle with it, and build new universes from it,--to be a pioneer of the soul, so
to speak, and to go where no man has ever been before; and yet all his victory is nothing to
him, because he knows so well what he might have done. Every time that he shrinks, as he must
shrink, from what is so hard and so high in his own vision, he knows that yet another glory
is lost forever, and so it comes that he stands very near indeed to the'tears of things.'"

Mr. Howard stopped again, and Helen found herself leaning forward and wondering.

"I know more about those tears than most people," the man went on slowly, after a long pause,
"for I have had to build my own life in that way; I know best of all the failure, for that
has been my lot. When you and I knew each other, I was very strong in my own heart, and I could
always find what joy and power I needed for the living of my life; but there have come to me
since, in the years that I have dwelt all alone with my great trial, times when I think that
I have stood face to face with this thing that we speak of, this naked tragedy and terror of
existence. There have been times when all the yearning and all the prayer that I had could
not save me, when I have known that I had not an ounce of resource left, and have sat and watched
the impulse of my soul die within me, and all my strength go from me, and seen myself with
fearful plainness as a spark of yearning, a living thing in all its pitifulness and hunger,
helpless and walled up in darkness. To feel that is to be very near indeed to the losing creatures
and their sorrow, and the memory of one such time is enough to keep a man merciful forever.
For it is really the deepest fact about life that a man can know;--how it is so hazardous and
so precious, how it keeps its head above the great ocean of the infinite only by all the force
it can exert; it happens sometimes that a man does not discover that truth until it is too
late, and then he finds life very cruel and savage indeed, I can tell you."

Mr. Howard stopped, and Helen drew a deep breath; she had been trembling slightly as she stood
listening; then as he spoke again, her heart gave a violent throb. "Some day," he said, "this
girl that we were talking about will have to come to that part of her life's journey; it is
a very sad thing to know."

"She will understand her sonata better," said the officer.

"No," was the reply; "I wish I could think even that; I know how sorrow affects a person whose
heart is true, how it draws him close to the great heart of life, and teaches him its sacredness,
and sends him forth merciful and humble. But selfish misery and selfish fear are no less ugly
than selfish happiness; a person who suffers ignobly becomes only disgusted and disagreeable,
and more selfish than ever. * * * But let us not talk any more about Miss Davis, for it is
not a pleasant subject; to a man who seeks as I do to keep his heart full of worship the very
air of this place is stifling, with its idleness and pride. It gives the lie to all my faith
about life, and I have only to go back into my solitude and forget it as soon as I can."

"That ought not to be a difficult thing to do," said the officer.

"It is for me," the other answered; "it haunts my thoughts all the time." He paused for a while,
and then he added, "I happened to think of something I came across this morning, in a collection
of French verse I was reading; William, did you ever read anything of Auguste Brizeux?"

The other answered in the negative.

"He has some qualities that are very rare in French poetry," went on Mr. Howard. "He makes
one think of Wordsworth. I happened to read a homely little ballad of his,--a story of some
of that tragedy of things that we spoke of; one could name hundreds of such poems quite as
good, I suppose, but this happened to be the one I came across, and I could not help thinking
of Miss Davis and wondering if she were really so cold and so hard that she could have heard
this story without shuddering. For it really shook me very much."

"What is it?" the other asked.

"I can tell you the story in a few words," said Mr. Howard. "To me it was one of those flashes
of beauty that frighten one and haunt him long afterwards; and I do not quite like to think
about it again."

The speaker's voice dropped, and the girl involuntarily crept a little nearer to hear him;
there was a tree in front of her, and she leaned against it, breathing very hard, tho making
no sound.

"The ballad is called 'Jacques the Mason,'" said Mr. Howard, "There are three little pictures
in it; in the first of them you see two men setting off to their work together, one of them
bidding his wife and children good-by, and promising to return with his friend for an evening's
feast, because the great building is to be finished. Then you see them at work, swarming upon
the structure and rejoicing in their success; and then you hear the shouts of the crowd as
the scaffolding breaks, and see those two men hanging over the abyss, clinging to a little
plank. It is not strong enough to hold them both, and it is cracking, and that means a fearful
death; they try to cling to the stones of the building and cannot, and so there comes one of
those fearful moments that makes a man's heart break to think of. Then in the fearful silence
you hear one of the men whisper that he has three children and a wife; and you see the other
gaze at him an instant with terror in his eyes, and then let go his hold and shoot down to
the street below. And that is all of the story."

Mr. Howard stopped, and there followed a long silence; afterwards he went on, his voice trembling:
"That is all," he said, "except of course that the man was killed. And I can think of nothing
but that body hurled down through the air, and the crushed figure and the writhing limbs. I
fancy the epic grandeur of soul of that poor ignorant laborer, and the glory that must have
flamed up in his heart at that great instant; so I find it a dreadful poem, and wonder if it
would not frighten that careless girl to read it."

Mr. Howard stopped again, and the officer asked if the story were true.

"I do not know that," answered the other, "nor do I care; it is enough to know that every day
men are called upon to face the shuddering reality of existence in some such form as that.
And the question which it brought to my heart is, if it came to me, as terrible as that, and
as sudden and implacable, would I show myself the man or the dastard? And that filled me with
a fearful awe and humility, and a guilty wonder whether somewhere in the world there might
not be a wall from which I should be throwing myself, instead of nursing my illness as I do,
and being content to read about greatness. And oh, I tell you, when I think of such things
as that, and see the pride and worthlessness of this thing that men call 'high life,' it seemed
to me no longer heedless folly, but dastardly and fiendish crime, so that one can only bury
his face in his hands and sob to know of it. And William, the more I realized it, the more
unbearable it seemed to me that this glorious girl with all her God-given beauty, should be
plunging herself into a stream so foul. I felt as if it were cowardice of mine that I did not
take her by the hand and try to make her see what madness she was doing."

"Why do you not?" asked the lieutenant.

"I think I should have, in my more Quixotic days," replied the other, sadly; "and perhaps some
day I may find myself in a kind of high life where royal sincerity is understood. But in this
world even an idealist has to keep a sense of humor, unless he happens to be dowered with an
Isaiah's rage."

Mr. Howard paused for a moment and laughed slightly; then, however, he went on more earnestly:
"Yet, as I think of it, I know that I could frighten her; I think that if I should tell her
of some of the days and nights that I have spent in tossing upon a bed of fire, she might find
the cup of her selfishness a trifle less pleasant to drink. It is something that I have noticed
with people, that they may be coarse or shallow enough to laugh at virtue and earnestness,
but there are very few who do not bow their heads before suffering. For that is something physical;
and they may harden their conscience if they please, but from the possibility of bodily pain
they know that they can never be safe; and they seem to know that a man who has walked with
that demon has laid his hand upon the grim reality of things, before which their shams and
vanities shrink into nothingness. The sight of it is always a kind of warning of the seriousness
of life, and so even when people feel no sympathy, they cannot but feel fear; I saw for instance,
that the first time this girl saw me she turned pale, and she would not come anywhere near me."

As the speaker paused again, Lieutenant Maynard said, very quietly: "I should think that would
be a hard cross to bear, David."

"No," said Mr. Howard, with a slight smile, "I had not that thought in my mind. I have seen
too much of the reality of life to trouble myself or the the world with vanity of that very
crude kind; I can sometimes imagine myself being proud of my serenity, but that is one step
beyond at any rate. A man who lives in his soul very seldom thinks of himself in an external
way; when I look in the glass it is generally to think how strange it is that this form of
mine should be that which represents me to men, and I cannot find anything they might really
learn about me, except the one physical fact of suffering."

"They can certainly not fail to learn that," said the other.

"Yes," replied Mr. Howard sadly, "I know, if any man does, what it is to earn one's life by
suffering and labor. That is why I have so mastering a sense of life's preciousness, and why
I cannot reconcile myself to this dreadful fact of wealth. It is the same thing, too, that
makes me feel so keenly about this girl and her beauty, and keeps her in my thoughts. I don't
think I could tell you how the sight of her affected me, unless you knew how I have lived all
these lonely years. For I have had no friends and no strength for any of the world's work,
and all my battle has been with my own soul, to be brave and to keep my self-command through
all my trials; I think my illness has acted as a kind of nervous stimulus upon me, as if it
were only by laboring to dwell upon the heights of my being night and day that I could have
strength to stand against despair. The result is that I have lived for days in a kind of frenzy
of effort, with all my faculties at white heat; and it has always been the artist's life, it
has always been beauty that brought me the joy that I needed, and given me the strength to
go on. Beauty is the sign of victory, and the prize of it, in this heart's battle; the more
I have suffered and labored, the more keenly I have come to feel that, until the commonest
flower has a song for me. And William, the time I saw this girl she wore a rose in her hair,
but she was so perfect that I scarcely saw the flower; there is that in a man's heart which
makes it that to him the fairest and most sacred of God's creatures must always be the maiden.
When I was young, I walked about the earth half drunk with a dream of love; and even now, when
I am twice as old as my years, and burnt out and dying, I could not but start when I saw this
girl. For I fancied that she must carry about in that maiden's heart of hers some high notion
of what she meant in the world, and what was due to her. When a man gazes upon beauty such
as hers, there is a feeling that comes to him that is quite unutterable, a feeling born of
all the weakness and failure and sin of his lifetime. For every true man's life is a failure;
and this is the vision that he sought with so much pain, the thing that might have been, had
he kept the faith with his own genius. It is so that beauty is the conscience of the artist;
and that there must always be something painful and terrible about high perfection. It was
that way that I felt when I saw this girl's face, and I dreamt my old dream of the sweetness
and glory of a maiden's heart. I thought of its spotlessness and of its royal scorn of baseness;
and I tell you, William, if I had found it thus I could have been content to worship and not
even ask that the girl look at me. For a man, when he has lived as I have lived, can feel towards
anything more perfect than himself a quite wonderful kind of humility; I know that all the
trouble with my helpless struggling is that I must be everything to myself, and cannot find
anything to love, and so be at peace. That was the way I felt when I saw this Miss Davis, all
that agitation and all that yearning; and was it not enough to make a man mock at himself,
to learn the real truth? I was glad that it did not happen to me when I was young and dependent
upon things about me; is it not easy to imagine how a young man might make such a woman the
dream of his life, how he might lay all his prayer at her feet, and how, when he learned of
her fearful baseness, it might make of him a mocking libertine for the rest of his days?"

"You think it baseness?" asked Lieutenant Maynard.

"I tried to persuade myself at first that it must be only blindness; I wondered to myself,
'Can she not see the difference between the life of these people about her and the music and
poetry her aunt tells me she loves?' I never waste any of my worry upon the old and hardened
of these vulgar and worldly people; it is enough for me to know why the women are dull and
full of gossip, and to know how much depth there is in the pride and in the wisdom of the men.
But it was very hard for me to give up my dream of the girl's purity; I rememher I thought
of Heine's 'Thou art as a flower,' and my heart was full of prayer. I wondered if it might
not be possible to tell her that one cannot combine music and a social career, and that one
cannot really buy happiness with sin; I thought that perhaps she might be grateful for the
warning that in cutting herself off from the great deepening experience of woman she was consigning
herself to stagnation and wretchedness from which no money could ever purchase her ransom;
I thought that possibly she did not see that this man knew nothing of her preciousness and
had no high thoughts about her beauty. That was the way I argued with myself about her innocence,
and you may fancy the kind of laughter that came over me at the truth. It is a ghastly thing,
William, the utter hardness, the grim and determined worldliness, of this girl. For she knew
very well what she was doing, and all the ignorance was on my part. She had no care about anything
in the world until that man came in, and the short half hour that I watched them was enough
to tell her that her life's happiness was won. But only think of her, William, with all her
God-given beauty, allowing herself to be kissed by him! Try to fancy what new kind of fiendishness
must lie in her heart! I remember that she is to marry him because he pays her millions, and
the word prostitution keeps haunting my memory; when I try to define it, I find that the millions
do not alter it in the least. That is a very cruel thought,--a thought that drives away everything
but the prayer--and I sit and wonder what fearful punishment the hand of Fate will deal out
for such a thing as that, what hatefulness it will stamp upon her for a sign to men. And then
because the perfect face still haunts my memory, I have a very Christ-like feeling indeed,--that
I could truly die to save that girl from such a horror."

There was another long silence, and then suddenly, Mr. Howard rose from his seat. "William,"
he said in a different voice, "it is all useless, so why should we talk so? The girl has to
live her own life and learn these things for herself. And in the meantime, perhaps I am letting
myself be too much moved by her beauty, for there are many people in the world who are not
beautiful, but who suffer things they do not deserve to suffer, and who really deserve our
sympathy and help."

"I fancy you'd not be much thanked for it in this case," said the other, with a dry laugh.

Mr. Howard stood for some moments in silence, and then turned away to end the conversation.
"I fear," he said, "that I have kept you more than I have any right to. Let us go back to the
house; it is not very polite to our hostess to stay so long."

"It must be nearly time for my train, anyhow," said the officer, and a moment later the two
had passed out of the summer-house and up the path, Lieutenant Maynard carrying Mr. Howard's
violin-case in his hand.

The two did not see Helen as they passed her; the reason was that Helen was stretched out upon
the ground by the side of the hedge. It was not that she was hiding,--she had no thought of
that; it was because she had been struck there by the scathing words that she had heard. Some
of them were so bitter that they could only have filled her with rage had she not known that
they were true, and had she not been awed by what she had learned of this man's heart. She
could feel only terror and fiery shame, and the cruel words had beaten her down, first upon
her knees, and then upon her face, and they lashed her like whips of flame and tore into her
flesh and made her writhe. She dared not cry out, or even sob; she could only dig into the
ground with her quivering fingers, and lie there, shuddering in a fearful way. Long after the
two men were gone her cruel punishment still continued, for she still seemed to hear his words,
seared into her memory with fire as they had been. What Mr. Howard had said had come like a
flash of lightning in the darkness to show her actions as they really were; the last fearful
sentences which she had heard had set all her being aflame, and the thought of Mr. Harrison's
embraces filled her now with a perfect spasm of shame and loathing.

"I sold myself to him for money!" she panted. "Oh, God, for money!"

But then suddenly she raised herself up and stared about her, crying out, half-hysterically,
"No, no, it is not true! It is not true! I could never have done it--I should have gone mad!"
And a moment later Helen had staggered to her feet. "I must tell him," she gasped. "He must
not think so of me!"

Mr. Howard had come to her as a vision from a higher world, making all that she had known and
admired seem hideous and base; and her one thought just then was of him. "He will still scorn
me," she thought, "but I must tell him I really did suffer." And heedless of the fact that
her hair was loose about her shoulders and her dress wet with the dew of the grass, the girl
ran swiftly up the lawn towards the house, whispering again and again, "I must tell him!"

It was only a minute more before she was near the piazza, and could see the people upon it
as they stood in the lighted doorway. Mr. Howard was one of them, and Helen would have rushed
blindly up to speak to him, had it not been that another thought came to her to stop her.

"Suppose he should know of Arthur!" she muttered, clenching her hands until the nails cut her
flesh. "Oh, what would he think then? And what could I tell him?" And she shrank back into
the darkness, like a black and guilty thing. She crept around the side of the house and entered
by another door, stealing into one of the darkened parlors, where she flung herself down upon
a sofa and lay trembling before that new terror. When a few minutes had passed and she heard
a carriage outside, she sprang up wildly, with the thought that he might be going. She had
run half way to the door before she recollected that the carriage must be for the lieutenant,
and then she stopped and stood still in the darkness, twisting her hands together nervously
and asking herself what she could do.

It occurred to her that she could look down the piazza from the window of the room, and so
she went swiftly to it. The officer was just descending to the carriage, Mr. Roberts with him,
and her aunt and Mr. Howard standing at the top of the steps, the latter's figure clearly outlined
in the moonlight. Helen's heart was so full of despair and yearning just then that she could
have rushed out and flung herself at his feet, had he been alone; but she felt a new kind of
shrinking from her aunt. She stood hesitating, therefore, muttering to herself, "I must let
him know about it somehow, and he will tell me what to do. Oh, I MUST! And I must tell him
now, before it is too late!"

She stood by the window, panting and almost choking with her emotion, kneading her hands one
upon the other in frenzied agitation; and then she heard Mr. Howard say to her aunt, "I shall
have to ask you to excuse me now, for I must not forget that I am an invalid." And Helen clutched
her burning temples, seeing him turn to enter the house, and seeing that her chance was going.
She glanced around her, almost desperate, and then suddenly her heart gave a great leap, for
just beside her was something that had brought one resource to her mind. She had seen the piano
in the dim light, and had thought suddenly of the song that Mr. Howard had mentioned.

"He will remember!" she thought swiftly, as she ran to the instrument and sat down before it.
With a strength born of her desperation she mastered the quivering of her hands, and catching
her breath, began in a weak and trembling voice the melody of Rubenstein:

  "Thou art as a flower,
    So pure and fair thou art;
  I gaze on thee, and sorrow
    Doth steal into my heart.

  "I would lay my hands upon thee,
    Upon thy snowy brow,
  And pray that God might keep thee
    So pure and fair as now."

Helen did not know how she was singing, she thought only of telling her yearning and her pain;
she was so choked with emotion that she could scarcely utter a sound at all, and the song must
have startled those who heard it. It was laden with all the tears that had been gathering in
Helen's heart for days.

She did not finish the song; she was thinking, "Will he understand?" She stopped suddenly as
she saw a shadow upon the porch outside, telling her that Mr Howard had come nearer. There
was a minute or so of breathless suspense and then, as the shadow began to draw slowly backwards,
Helen clenched her hands convulsively, whispering to herself, "He will think it was only an
accident! Oh, what can I do?"

There are some people all of whose emotions take the form of music; there came into Helen's
mind at that instant a melody that was the very soul of her agitation and her longing--MacDowell's
"To a Water Lily;" the girl thought of what Mr. Howard had said about the feeling that comes
to suffering mortals at the sight of something perfect and serene, and she began playing the
little piece, very softly, and with trembling hands.

It is quite wonderful music; to Helen with her heart full of grief and despair, the chords
that floated so cold and white and high were almost too much to be borne. She played desperately
on, however, because she saw that Mr. Howard had stopped again, and she did not believe that
he could fail to understand that music.

So she continued until she came to the pleading song of the swan. The music is written to a
poem of Geibel's which tells of the snow-white lily, and of the bird which wonders at its beauty;
afterwards, because there is nothing in all nature more cold and unapproachable than a water-lily,
and because one might sing to it all day and never fancy that it heard him, the first melody
rises again, as keen and as high as ever, and one knows that his yearning is in vain, and that
there is nothing for him but his old despair. When Helen came to that she could go no farther,
for her wretchedness had been heaping itself up, and her heart was bursting. Her fingers gave
way as she struck the keys, and she sank down and hid her face in her arms, and broke into
wild and passionate sobbing. She was almost choking with her pent-up emotions, so shaken that
she was no longer conscious of what went on about her. She did not hear Mr. Howard's voice,
as he entered, and she did not even hear the frightened exclamations of her aunt, until the
latter had flung her arms about her. Then she sprang up and tore herself loose by main force,
rushing upstairs and locking herself in her own room, where she flung herself down upon the
bed and wept until she could weep no more, in the meantime not even hearing her aunt's voice
from the hallway, and altogether unconscious of the flight of time.

When she sat up and brushed away her tangled hair and gazed about her, everything in the house
was silent. She herself was exhausted, but she rose, and after pacing up and down the room
a few minutes, seated herself at the writing desk, and in spite of her trembling fingers, wrote
a short note to Mr. Gerald Harrison; then with a deep breath of relief, she rose, and going
to the window knelt down in front of it and gazed out.

The moon was high in the sky by that time, and the landscape about her was flooded with its
light. Everything was so calm and still that the girl held her breath as she watched it; but
suddenly she gave a start, for she heard the sound of a violin again, so very faint that she
at first thought she was deluding herself. As she listened, however, she heard it more plainly,
and then she realized in a flash that Mr. Howard must have heard her long-continued sobbing,
and that he was playing something for her. It was Schumann's "Traumerei;" and as the girl knelt
there her soul was borne away upon the wings of that heavenly melody, and there welled up in
her heart a new and very different emotion from any that she had ever known before; it was
born, half of the music, and half of the calm and the stillness of the night,--that wonderful
peace which may come to mortals either in victory or defeat, when they give up their weakness
and their fear, and become aware of the Infinite Presence. When the melody had died away, and
Helen rose, there was a new light in her eyes, and a new beauty upon her countenance, and she
knew that her soul was right at last.

CHAPTER X

  "Our acts our angels are, or good or ill,
  Our fatal shadows that walk by us still."

Naturally there was considerable agitation in the Roberts family on account of Helen's strange
behavior; early the next morning Mrs. Roberts was at her niece's door, trying to gain admittance.
This time she did not have to knock but once, and when she entered she was surprised to see
that Helen was already up and dressing. She had been expecting to find the girl more prostrated
than ever, and so the discovery was a great relief to her; she stood gazing at her anxiously.

"Helen, dear," she said, "I scarcely know how to begin to talk to you about your extraordinary--"

"I wish," interrupted Helen, "that you would not begin to talk to me about it at all."

"But you must explain to me what in the world is the matter," protested the other.

"I cannot possibly explain to you," was the abrupt reply. Helen's voice was firm, and there
was a determined look upon her face, a look which quite took her aunt by surprise.

"But, my dear girl!" she began once more.

"Aunt Polly!" said the other, interrupting her again, "I wish instead of talking about it you
would listen to what I have to say for a few moments. For I have made up my mind just what
I am going to do, and I am going to take the reins in my own hands and not do any arguing or
explaining to anyone. And there is no use of asking me a word about what has happened, for
I could not hope to make you understand me, and I do not mean to try."

As Helen uttered those words she fixed her eyes upon her aunt with an unflinching gaze, with
the result that Mrs. Roberts was quite too much taken aback to find a word to say.

Without waiting for anything more Helen turned to the table. "Here is a letter," she said,
"which I have written to Mr. Harrison; you know his address in New York, I suppose?"

"His address?" stammered the other; "why,--yes, of course. But what in the world--"

"I wish this letter delivered to him at once, Aunt Polly," Helen continued. "It is of the utmost
importance, and I want you to do me the favor to send someone into the city with it by the
next train."

"But, Helen, dear--"

"Now please do not ask me anything about it," went on the girl, impatiently. "I have told you
that you must let me manage this affair myself. If you will not send it I shall simply have
to get someone to take it. He must have it, and have it at once."

"Will it not do to mail it, Helen?"

"No, because I wish him to get it this morning." And Helen put the letter into her aunt's hands,
while the latter gazed helplessly, first at it, and then at the girl. There is an essay of
Bacon's in which is set forth the truth that you can bewilder and master anyone if you are
only sufficiently bold and rapid; Mrs. Roberts was so used to managing everything and being
looked up to by everyone that Helen's present mood left her quite dazed.

Nor did the girl give her any time to recover her presence of mind. "There is only one thing
more," she said, "I want you to have breakfast as soon as you can, and then to let me have
a carriage at once."

"A carriage?" echoed the other.

"Yes, Aunt Polly, I wish to drive over to Hilltown immediately."

"To Hilltown!" gasped Aunt Polly with yet greater consternation, and showing signs of resistance
at last; "pray what--"

But Helen only came again to the attack, with yet more audacity and confidence. "Yes," she
said, "to Hilltown; I mean to go to see Arthur."

For answer to that last statement, poor Mrs, Roberts had simply no words whatever; she could
only gaze, and in the meantime, Helen was going calmly on with her dressing, as if the matter
were settled.

"Will Mr. Howard be down to breakfast?" she asked.

"As he is going away to-day, I presume he will be down," was the reply, after which Helen quickly
completed her toilet, her aunt standing by and watching her in the meantime.

"Helen, dear," she asked at last, after having recovered her faculties a trifle, "do you really
mean that you will not explain to me a thing of what has happened, or of what you are doing?"

"There is so much, Aunt Polly, that I cannot possibly explain it now; I have too much else
to think of. You must simply let me go my way, and I will tell you afterwards."

"But, Helen, is that the right way to treat me? Is it nothing to you, all the interest that
I have taken in this and all that I have done for you, that you should think so little of my
advice?"

"I do not need any advice now," was the answer. "Aunt Polly, I see exactly what I should do,
and I do not mean to stop a minute for anything else until I have done it. If it seems unkind,
I am very sorry, but in the meantime it must be done."

And while she was saying the words, Helen was putting on her hat; then taking up her parasol
and gloves she turned towards her aunt. "I am ready now," she said, "and please let me have
breakfast just as soon as you can."

The girl was so much preoccupied with her own thoughts and purposes that she scarcely even
heard what her aunt said; she went down into the garden where she could be alone, and paced
up and down impatiently until she heard the bell. Then she went up into the dining room, where
she found her aunt and uncle in conversation with Mr. Howard.

Helen had long been preparing herself to meet him, but she could not keep her cheeks from flushing
or keep from lowering her eyes; she bit her lips together, however, and forced herself to look
at him, saying very resolutely, "Mr. Howard, I have to drive over to Hilltown after breakfast,
and I wish very much to talk to you about something; would you like to drive with me?"

"Very much indeed," said he, quietly, after which Helen said not a word more. She saw that
her aunt and uncle were gazing at her and at each other in silent wonder, but she paid no attention
to it. After eating a few hurried mouthfuls she excused herself, and rose and went outside,
where she saw the driving-cart which had been bought for her use, waiting for her. It was not
much longer before Mr. Howard was ready, for he saw her agitation.

"It is rather a strange hour to start upon a drive," she said to him, "but I have real cause
for hurrying; I will explain about it." And then she stopped, as her aunt came out to join them.

It was only a moment more before Mr. Howard had excused himself, and the two were in the wagon,
Helen taking the reins. She waved a farewell to her aunt and then started the horse, and they
were whirled swiftly away down the road.

All the morning Helen's mind had been filled with things that she wished to say to Mr. Howard.
But now all her resolution seemed to have left her, and she was trembling very much, and staring
straight ahead, busying herself with guiding the horse. When they were out upon the main road
where they might go as fast as they pleased without that necessity, she swallowed the lump
in her throat and made one or two nervous attempts to speak.

Mr. Howard in the meantime had been gazing in front of him thoughtfully. "Miss Davis," he said
suddenly, turning his eyes upon her, "may I ask you a question?"

"Yes," said Helen faintly.

"You heard all that I said about you last night?"

And Helen turned very red and looked away. "Yes, I heard it all," she said; and then there
was a long silence.

It was broken by the man, who began in a low voice: "I scarcely know how, Miss Davis, I can
apologize to you--"

And then he stopped short, for the girl had turned her glance upon him, wonderingly. "Apologize?"
she said; she had never once thought of that view of it, and the word took her by surprise.

"Yes," said Mr. Howard; "I said so many hard and cruel things that I cannot bear to think of them."

Helen still kept her eyes fixed upon him, as she said, "Did you say anything that was not true,
Mr. Howard?"

The man hesitated a moment, and then he answered: "I said many things that I had no right to
say to you."

"That is not it," said Helen simply. "Did you say anything that was not true?"

Again Mr. Howard paused. "I am quite sure that I did," he said at last. "Most of what I said
I feel to have been untrue since I have seen how it affected you."

"Because it made me so ashamed?" said Helen. And then some of the thoughts that possessed her
forced their way out, and she hurried on impetuously: "That was the first thing I wanted to
tell you. It is really true that you were wrong, for I am not hard-hearted at all. It was something
that my--that people were making me do, and all the time I was wretched. It was dreadful, I
know, but I was tempted, because I do love beautiful things. And it was all so sudden, and
I could not realize it, and I had nobody to advise me, for none of the people I meet would
think it was wrong. You must talk to me and help me, because I've got to be very strong; my
aunt will be angry, and when I get back perhaps Mr. Harrison will be there, and I shall have
to tell him."

Then the girl stopped, out of breath and trembling with excitement; Mr. Howard turned abruptly
and fixed his dark eyes upon her.

"Tell him," he said. "Tell him what?"

"That I shall not marry him, of course," answered Helen; the other gave a start, but she was
so eager that she did not even notice it. "I could not lose a minute," she said. "For it was
so very dreadful, you know."

"And you really mean not to marry him?" asked the other.

"Mean it!" echoed the girl, opening her eyes very wide. "Why, how in the world could you suppose--"
And then she stopped short, and laughed nervously. "Of course," she said, "I forgot; you might
suppose anything. But, oh, if I could tell you how I have suffered, Mr. Howard, you would understand
that I could never have such a thought again in the world. Please do understand me, for if
I had really been so base I should not come to you as I do after what I heard. I cannot tell
you how dreadfully I suffered while I was listening, but after I had cried so much about it,
I felt better, and it seemed to me that it was the best thing that could have happened to me,
just to see my actions as they seemed to someone else,--to someone who was good. I saw all
at once the truth of what I was doing, and it was agony to me to know that you thought so of
me. That was why I could not rest last night until I had told you that I was really unhappy;
for it was something that I was unhappy, wasn't it, Mr. Howard?"

"Yes," said the other, "it was very much indeed."

"And oh, I want you to know the truth," Helen went on swiftly. "Perhaps it is just egotism
on my part, and I have really no right to tell you all about myself in this way; and perhaps
you will scorn me when you come to know the whole truth. But I cannot help telling you about
it, so that you may advise me what to do; I was all helpless and lost, and what you said came
last night like a wonderful light. And I don't care what you think about me if you will only
tell me the real truth, in just the same way that you did; for I realized afterwards that it
was that which had helped me so. It was the first time in my life that it had ever happened
to me; when you meet people in the world, they only say things that they know will please you,
and that does you no good. I never realized before how a person might go through the world
and really never meet with another heart in all his life; and that one can be fearfully lonely,
even in a parlor full of people. Did you ever think of that, Mr. Howard?"

Mr. Howard had fixed his keen eyes upon the girl as she went breathlessly on; she was very
pale, and the sorrow through which she had passed had left will think I have been so cold and
wicked, that you will soon scorn me altogether."

"I do not think that is possible," said her companion, gently, as he saw the girl choking back
a sob.

"Well, listen then," Helen began; but then she stopped again. "Do you wish me to tell you?"
she asked. "Do you care anything about it at all, or does it seem--"

"I care very much about it, indeed," the other answered.

"However dreadful it may seem," said Helen. "Oh, please know that while I have been doing it,
it has made me utterly wretched, and that I am so frightened now that I can scarcely talk to
you; and that if there is anything that I can do--oh, absolutely anything--I will do it!" Then
the girl bit her lips together and went on with desperate haste, "It's what you said about
what would happen if there were someone else to love me, and to see how very bad I was!"

"There is some such person?" asked the man, in a low voice.

"Yes," said she. "It is someone I have known as long as I can remember. And he loves me very
much indeed, I think; and while I was letting myself be tempted in this way he was very sick,
and because I knew I was so bad I did not dare go near him; and yesterday when he heard I was
going to marry this man, it almost killed him, and I do not know what to fear now."

Then, punishing herself very bravely and swallowing all her bitter shame, Helen went on to
tell Mr. Howard of Arthur, and of her friendship with him, and of how long he had waited for
her; she narrated in a few words how he had left her, and then how she had seen him upon the
road. Afterwards she stopped and sat very still, trembling, and with her eyes lowered, quite
forgetting that she was driving.

"Miss Davis," said the other, gently, seeing how she was suffering, "if you wish my advice
about this, I should not worry myself too much; it is better, I find in my own soul's life,
to save most of the time that one spends upon remorse, and devote it to action."

"To action?" asked Helen.

"Yes," said the other. "You have been very thoughtless, but you may hope that nothing irrevocable
has happened; and when you have seen your friend and told him the truth just as you have told
it to me, I fancy it will bring him joy enough to compensate him for what he has suffered."

"That was what I meant to do," the girl went on. "But I have been terrified by all sorts of
fancies, and when I remember how much pain I caused him, I scarcely dare think of speaking
to him. When I saw him by the roadside, Mr. Howard, he seemed to me to look exactly like you,
there was such dreadful suffering written in his face."

"A man who lives as you have told me your friend has lived," said the other, "has usually a
very great power of suffering; such a man builds for himself an ideal which gives him all his
joy and his power, and makes his life a very glorious thing; but when anything happens to destroy
his vision or to keep him from seeking it, he suffers with the same intensity that he rejoiced
before. The great hunger that was once the source of his power only tears him to pieces then,
as steam wrecks a broken engine."

"It's very dreadful," Helen said, "how thoughtless I was all along. I only knew that he loved
me very much, and that it was a vexation to me."

Mr. Howard glanced at her. "You do not love him?" he asked.

"No," said Helen, quickly. "If I had loved him, I could never have had a thought of all these
other things. But I had no wish to love anybody; it was more of my selfishness."

"Perhaps not," the other replied gently. "Some day you may come to love him, Miss Davis."

"I do not know," Helen said. "Arthur was very impatient."

"When a man is swift and eager in all his life," said Mr. Howard, smiling, "he cannot well
be otherwise in his love. Such devotion ought to be very precious to a woman, for such hearts
are not easy to find in the world."

Helen had turned and was gazing anxiously at Mr. Howard as he spoke to her thus. "You really
think," she said, "that I should learn to appreciate Arthur's love?"

"I cannot know much about him from the little you have told me," was the other's answer. "But
it seems to me that it is there you might find the best chance to become the unselfish woman
that you wish to be."

"It is very strange," the girl responded, wonderingly, "how differently you think about it.
I should have supposed I was acting very unwisely indeed if I loved Arthur; everyone would
have told me of his poverty and obscurity, and of how I must give up my social career."

"I think differently, perhaps," Mr. Howard said, "because I have lived so much alone. I have
come to know that happiness is a thing of one's own heart, and not of externals; the questions
I should ask about a marriage would not be of wealth and position. If you really wish to seek
the precious things of the soul, I should think you would be very glad to prove it by some
sacrifice; and I know that two hearts are brought closer, and all the memories of life made
dearer, by some such trial in the early days. People sneer at love in a cottage, but I am sure
that love that could wish to live anywhere else is not love. And as to the social career, a
person who has once come to know the life of the heart soon ceases to care for any kind of
life that is heartless; a social career is certainly that, and in comparison very vulgar indeed."

Helen looked a little puzzled, and repeated the word "vulgar" inquiringly. Mr Howard smiled.

"That is the word I always use when I am talking about high life," he said, laughing. "You
may hurl the words 'selfish' and 'worldly' at it all you please, and never reach a vital spot;
but the word 'vulgar' goes straight to the heart."

"You must explain to me why it is that," said Helen, with so much seriousness that the other
could not help smiling again.

"Perhaps I cannot make anyone else see the thing as I do," was his reply. "And yet it seems
rery simple. When a man lives a while in his own soul, he becomes aware of the existence of
a certain spiritual fact which gives life all its dignity and meaning; he learns that this
sacred thing demands to be sought for, and worshiped; and that the man who honors it and seeks
it is only hailed as gentleman, and aristocrat, and that he who does not honor it and seek
it is vulgar, tho he be heir of a hundred earls, and leader of all society, and lord of millions.
Every day that one lives in this presence that I speak of, he discovers a little more how sacred
a thing is true nobility, and how impertinent is the standard that values men for the wealth
they win, or for the ribbons they wear, or for anything else in the world. I fancy that you,
if you came once to love your friend, would find it very easy to do without the admiration
of those who go to make up society; they would come to seem to you very trivial and empty people,
and afterwards, perhaps, even very cruel and base."

Mr. Howard stopped; but then seeing that Helen was gazing at him inquiringly once more he added,
gravely, "One could be well content to let vain people strut their little hour and be as wonderful
as they chose, if it were not for the painful fact that they are eating the bread of honest
men, and that millions are toiling and starving in order that they may have ease and luxury.
That is such a very dreadful thing to know that sometimes one can think of nothing else, and
it drives him quite mad."

The girl sat very still after that, trembling a little in her heart; finally she asked, her
voice shaking slightly, "Mr. Howard, what can one do about such things?"

"Very little," was the reply, "for they must always be; but at least one can keep his own life
earnest and true. A woman who felt such things very keenly might be an inspiration to a man
who was called upon to battle with selfishness and evil."

"You are thinking of Arthur once more?" asked the girl.

