C. Agricola, Propugnaculum Anti-Pistorianum.--Could any of your readers direct me to an accessible
library which possess a copy of Christian Agricola's Propugnaculum Anti-Pistorianum, or otherwise
give me any account of that treatise?

J. SANSOM.

The Liturgy Version of the Psalms.--In Beloe's Anecdotes of Literature (edition 1807), vol.
i. p. 181. and vol. ii. p.316. are notices of The Bishops' Bible, where mention is made of
one edition of it containing two different versions of the Psalms. The two statements, however,
differ, making it doubtful of what is intended; the first speaking of one edition and the second
of another.

Vol. i. p. 181. says--

     "The first edition of this Bible was published in 1568. In this the
     new translation of the Psalms was inserted alone. In the second
     edition the translation of the Great Bible was added in opposite
     columns, and in a different character."

Vol. ii. p. 316.:--

     "Bishops' Bible, first edition, 1568. There is also a double
     translation of the Psalms, one from what is called the Great Bible,
     the other entirely a new one."

Will any of your correspondents be so obliging as to state what is the additional version--new
or other--there alluded to, other than the present Liturgy version?

X.X.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

Sir William Rider.--"P.C.S.S." is happy to be able to answer one of the questions of "H.F."
(at p. 186. No. 12.), by referring him to the Extracts from the Parish Registers of St. Olave's,
which were published in vol. ii. of the Collectanea Topographica et Genealogica. At p. 316.,
of that volume, he will find the following entry, which pretty nearly determines the date of
Sir William Rider's death:--"1611, November 19. Sir William Rider diing at Leyton, had his
funeralle solemnized in our Church, the hearss being brought from Clothworkers' Hall." In a
note to the above entry a further reference is made to Lyson's Environs, vol. iv. pp. 160,
161. 165.

SONNET.

Written on the opening of the Session, 1847.

CHAUCER

             "Me, poor man! my library
  Was dukedom large enough."--SHAKSPEARE.

  Farewell, my trusty leathern-coated friends!
    'Tis fitting, for a while, that we should part;
  For I, as duty points, must shape my ends,
    Obey what reason bids, and not my heart.
  What though 'tis mine to listen in that Hall
    Where England's peers, "grave, rev'rend, potent," sit,
  To hear the classic words of STANLEY fall,
    BROUGHAM'S biting sarcasm, LYNDHURST'S polished wit,
  The measur'd sentence of THE GREAT CALM DUKE--
    It is not mine to commune with the men.
  Not so when I unfold some favorite book,
    CHAUCER and I grow boon companions then;
  And SHAKSPEARE, deigning at my hearth to sit,
  Charms me with mingled love, philosophy, and wit.

WILLIAM J. THOMS.

Pilgrimages of Princes--Bernard Calver--Passage from Hudibras.--In reply to Mr. Beauchamp's
query, No. 11. p. 173., The Pilgrimage of Princes, penned out of Greek and Latine Authors,
London, 1586, 4to., was written by Ludowic Lloyd. See Watt's Bibliotheca Brit., vol. iii. p. 612.

No. 11., p. 167. Mr. Stevens will find some account of "Bernard Calver," in Granger's Letters,
8vo., but I have not the book to refer to.

No. 12., p. 177. Menage observes, in speaking of Monsieur Perier's abuse of Horace for running
away from the battle of Philippi, "Relietâ non bene parmulâ," "Mais je le pardonne, parce qu'il
ne sait peut-être pas que les Grecs ont dit en faveur des Fuiars."

  "[Greek: Aner o pheugon kai palin machesetai]"

Menagiana, vol. i. p. 248. Amst. 1713.

Perhaps Erasmus translated this "apophthegme." Audley End, Jan. 19. 1850.

BRAYBROOKE.

Seal of Killigrew, Master of the Revels.--In the Museum at Sudbury, in the county of Suffolk,
is, or was when I made a note of it about three years since, a silver seal with a crystal handle,
which is said to have belonged to Killigrew, King Charles's celebrated Master of the Revels.
The arms are, argent, an eagle displayed with two heads within a bordure sable bezanty. Crest.
A demi-lion sable, charged with three bezants.

BURIENSIS.

Lacedaemonian Black Broth.--Your correspondent "W." in No. 11., is amusing as well as instructive;
but it does not yet appear that we must reject the notion of coffee as an ingredient of the
Lacedaemonian black broth upon the score of colour or taste.

That it was an ingredient has only as yet been mooted as a probability.

Pollux, to whom your correspondent refers us, says that [Greek: zomos melas] was a Lacedaemonian
food; and that it was called [Greek: aimatia], translated in Scott and Liddell's Lexicon, "blood-broth."
These lexicographers add, "The Spartan black broth was made with blood," and refer to Manso's
Sparta, a German work, which I have not the advantage of consulting.

Gesner, in his Thesaurus, upon the word "jus," quotes the known passage of Cicero, Tusc. Disp.
v. 34., and thinks the "jus nigrum" was probably the [Greek: aimatia], and made with an admixture
of blood, as the "botuli," the black puddings of modern time, were.

Coffee would not be of much lighter colour than blood. A decoction of senna, though of a red-brown,
is sometimes administered in medicine under the common name of a "black dose."

As regards the colour, then, whether blood or coffee were the ingredient, the mess would be
sufficiently dark to be called "black."

In respect of taste, it is well known, from the story told by Cicero in the passage above referred
to, that the Lacedaemonian black broth was disagreeable, at least to Dionysius, and the Lacedaemonians,
who observed to him that he wanted that best of sauces, hunger, convey a confession that their
broth was not easily relished.

The same story is told with a little variation by Stobaeus, Serm. xxix., and Plutarch, Institut.
Lacon., 2. The latter writer says, that the Syracusan, having tasted the Spartan broth, "spat
it out in disgust," [Greek: dyscheranunta apoptusai].

It would not have been unlike the Lacedaemonians purposely to have established a disagreeable
viand in their system of public feeding. Men that used iron money to prevent the accumulation
of wealth, and, as youths, had volunteered to be scourged, scratched, beat about, and kicked
about, to inure them to pain, were just the persons to affect a nauseous food to discipline
the appetite.

R.O.

Lacedaemonian Black Broth.--I should be glad to know in what passages of ancient authors the
Lacedaemonian black broth is mentioned, and whether it is alluded to in such terms as to indicate
the nature of the food. It has occurred to me that it is much more probable that it was the
same black broth which is now cooked in Greece, where I have eaten of it and found it very
good, although it looked as if a bottle of ink had been poured into the mess.

The dish is composed of small cuttle-fish (with their ink-bags) boiled with rice or other vegetables.
Edinburgh, Jan. 13. 1850.

W.C. TREVELYAN.

ON A LADY WHO WAS PAINTED. (From the Latin.)

  It sounds like a paradox--and yet 'tis true,
  You're like your picture, though it's not like you.

RUFUS.

Bigotry.--The word Bigotry pervades almost all the languages of Europe, but its etymology has
not been satisfactory to Noah Webster. The application of it is generally intelligible enough;
being directed against those who pertinaciously adhere to their own system of religious faith.
But as early as the tenth century it appears, that the use of the word Bigot originated in
a circumstance, or incident, unconnected with religious views. An old chronicle, published
by Duchesne in the 3rd vol. of his Hist. Francorum Scriptores, states that Rollo, on receiving
Normandy from the King of France, or at least of that part of it, was called upon to kiss the
foot of the king, a ceremony, it seems, in use not at the Vatican only; but he refused "unless
the king would raise his foot to his mouth." When the counts in attendance admonished him to
comply with this usual form of accepting so valuable a fief, he still declined, exclaiming
in pure Anglo-Saxon, "Not He, By God,"--Ne se bigoth; "quod interpetatur," says the chronicler,
"non [ille] per Deum." The king and his peers, deriding him, called him afterwards Bigoth,
or Bigot, instead of Rollo. "Unde Normanni," adds the writer, who brings his history down to
the year 1137, "adhuc Bigothi dicuntur." This will account for the prepositive article "Le"
prefixed to the Norman Bigods, the descendants of those who followed William the Conqueror
into England, such as Hugh Le Bigod, &c. Among other innovations in France, the word Bigotisme
has been introduced, of which Boiste gives an example as combined with Philosophisme:--"Le
Bigotisme n'est, comme le Philosophisme, qu'un Egoïsme systématique. Le Philosophisme et le
Bigotisme se traitent comme les chiens et les loups; cependant leurs espèces se rapprochent,
et produisent des monstres."

J.I.

Oxford.

Gowghe's Dore of Holy Scripture.--If your correspondent "F.M." (No. 9. p.139.) has not received
a reply to his third query, I beg to submit that he will find the perusers of Gowghe's work
to be the individuals mentioned in different portions of Foxe's Acts and Monuments, vol. v.
edit. 8vo. pp. 414.449. 482.; the less intelligible names, "Doctor Barons, Master Ceton," being
intended for Dr. Barnes and Alexander Seton. Anyhow, this reference may, it is hoped, lead
to a fuller discovery of the parties intended.

NORRIS.

Reinerius Saccho.--Your correspondent "D." (No. 7. p.106.) will find some account of Reinerius
Saccho, if the source is accessible, in Quetif and Echard's Scriptores Ord. Praedicatt. tom.
i. 154.

N.

Discurs Modest.--Your correspondent "A.T." 4. p.31.; that the Discurs. Modest. de Jesuitis
borrowed it from him; that Andrews most probably derived it from the borrower; and that the
date of the Discurs. &c. must, therefore, be between 1602 and 1610. Probably there may be a
copy in the Lambeth Library; there is none in the Bodleian, British Museum, or Sion College,
and Placcius affords no reference. The author may never have been known.

N.

Defoe's Tour through Great Britain.--I am much obliged to your correspondent "D.S.Y" for the
suggestion that the Tour through Great Britain, by a Gentleman, from which I sent you some
extracts relating to the Ironworks of Sussex, is from the pen of Daniel Defoe. On referring
to the list of his writings, given in vol. xx. of C. Talboy's edition of Defoe's Works, I find
this idea is correct. Chalmers notices three editions of the work, in 1724, 1725, and 1727,
(numbered in his list "154," "156," "163,") and remarks that "all the subsequent editions vary
considerably from the original" of 1724. He states that "this work is frequently confounded
with 'John Macky's Journey through England, in familiar Letters from a Gentleman here to his
Friend abroad,' 1722." I may take this opportunity of mentioning that, in the first volume
of Defoe's work, there are some very interesting particulars of the skirmish at Reading, between
the troops of the Prince of Orange and the Irish forces of James II., and the panic known as
the "Irish night," which deserve to be consulted by Mr. Macaulay, for the next edition of his
History. The whole work will well repay a perusal, and what is there of Defoe's writing which
will not?

D.S.

Muffins.--The correspondent who, in No. 11., p. 173., inquires the origin of the word "Muffin,"
is referred to Urquhart's Pillars of Hercules, vol. ii. p. 143., just published, where he will
find a large excursus on this subject. The word, he avers, is Phoenician: from maphula, one
of those kinds of bread named as such by Athenaeus. "It was a cake," says Athenaeus, "baked
on a hearth or griddle." He derives this by taking away the final vowel, and then changing
l for n; thus: "maphula," "maphul," "mufun!!!"

In this strange book there are fifty other etymologies as remarkable as this. The author plainly
offers them in hard earnest. This is something worth noting.

V.

By Hook or Crook.--"As in the phrase 'to get by hook or crook;' in the sense of, to get by
any expedient, to stick at nothing to obtain the end; not to be over nice in obtaining your
ends--By hucke o'er krooke; e.g. by bending the knees, and by bowing low, or as we now say,
by bowing and scraping, by crouching and cringing."--Bellenden Ker's Essay on the Archaeology
our Popular Phrases and Nursery Rhymes, vol. i. p. 21. ed. 1837.

I wish your correspondent, "J.R.F.," had given a reference to the book or charter from which
he copied his note.

Has Mr. B. Ker's work ever been reviewed?

MELANION.

     [Mr. Ker's book was certainly reviewed in Fraser's Magazine at
     the time of its appearance, and probably in other literary
     journals.]

By Hook or By Crook.--I have met with it somewhere, but have lost my note, that Hooke and Crooke
were two judges, who in their day decided most unconscientiously whenever the interests of
the crown were affected, and it used to be said that the king could get anything by Hooke or
by Crooke. Query, is this the origin of the phrase?

If I cannot give my authority, perhaps "J.R.F." may be able to give his, for deriving it from
"Forest Customs?"

H.T.E.

El Buscapié.--A very full and able disquisition on the subject of MR. SINGER's query (No. 11.,
p. 171.), respecting El Buscapié, will be found in the appendix to a work which is just published,
viz. Ticknor's History of Spanish Literature, vol. iii. Appendix D. 371. et seq. That writer,
whose opinion is entitled to credit as that of a consummate student of Spanish letters, and
who gives good reasons for his conclusions in this instance, pronounces against the authenticity
of the poor little pamphlet recently put forth as belonging to Cervantes.

Those who take an interest in Spanish literature will find this book of Ticknor's a most valuable
contribution to their knowledge of its whole compass, and worth "making a note of."

V.

Richard of Cirencester, &c.--Bishop Barlow.--Your correspondent "S.A.A." (No. 6., p. 93), who
is desirous of further information respecting Richard of Cirencester, will, I am sure, peruse
with much interest and gratification a dissertation on that writer by K. Wex, which first appeared
in the Rheinisches Museum für Philologie for 1846, and was shortly after translated and inserted
in the Gentleman's Magazine, with valuable notes by the translator.--Respecting the writers
of notes on the margin of books, few notes of the kind, I apprehend, deserve better to be collected
and published than those by the very learned Bishop Barlow, Provost of Queen's College from
the year 1657 to 1677, and who left the chief part of his library to that society. The rest
of his books, being such as were not in the Bodleian, he bequeathed to that library, of which
he was for some years the librarian. The Biographia Britannica represents him to have been
"an universal lover and favourer of learned men, of what country or denomination soever."

J.M.

Oxford

Rev. J. Edwards on Metal for Telescopes.--"T.J." informs the correspondent who inquired (No.
11, p. 174.) respecting this valuable paper, that it was printed in the Nautical Almanac for
1787. E.B. PRICE adds, "A Treatise on Optical Instruments, published about twenty years ago
by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, contains much useful and general information
upon this subject; and it is stated in that work that Mr. Edward's treatise, which is now very
scarce, is republishing in the Technological Repository." While "G.B.S." furnishes the information
that the treatise in question may be procured from Mr. Murray, of Albemarle Street.

Ordination Pledges.--In reply to the inquiry of "CLERICUS" (No. 10., p. 156.) for manuals containing
a complete list of Ordination Pledges, may be mentioned Johnson's Clergyman's Vade Mecum, 2
vols. 12mo., and William's Laws relating to the Clergy, being a Practical Guide to the Clerical
Profession on the Legal and Canonical Discharge of their various Duties, 8vo. The author of
this useful work, which appears not to have been seen by Lowndes, says, in his advertisement,
"The works which are already extant on Ecclesiastical Law, being either too diffuse or too
concise for ready reference and practical use, the compiler of this volume has endeavored to
remedy this defect by the publication of the following compendium."

T.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

The Percy Society have just issued A New and Mery Enterlude called the Triall of Treasure,
from the edition printed at London by Thomas Purfoote, 1567, edited by Mr. Halliwell. The other
works issued by the Society since May last (when the year's subscription became due) have been
A Poem (satirical) of The Times of Edward II., edited by the Rev. C. Hardwick, from a MS. at
St. Peter's College, Cambridge, of which a less perfect copy from an Edinburgh MS. was printed
by Mr. Wright, in the volume of Political Songs, edited by him for the Camden Society; Notices
of Fugitive Tracts and Chap-Books, printed at Aldermary Churchyard, Bow Churchyard, &c. by
Mr. Halliwell; The Man in the Moone, or The English Fortune Teller, edited by the same gentleman,
from the unique copy printed in 1609, now in the Bodleian; and lastly, The Religious Poems
of William de Shoreham, Vicar of Chart-Sutton in Kent, in the Reign of Edward II., edited by
Mr. Wright, from a contemporary manuscript.

It is doubtful whether Mr. Shaw's skill as an artist, fidelity as a copyist, or taste in the
selection of his subjects, entitle him to the higher praise. We leave to those who are familiar
with his Dresses and Decorations of the Middle Ages, and other admirable productions, the settlement
of this point. He has just published the first number of a new work, The Decorative Arts of
the Middle Ages, the object of which is to exhibit the peculiar features and general characteristics
of decorative art, from the Byzantine or early Christian period to the decline of that termed
the Renaissance. This beautiful work--for beautiful it is--is extremely well timed, as it appears
at a moment when our manufacturers who desire to display their skill at the great exhibition
of 1851, must be most anxious to see "the principles by which our ancestors controlled their
genius in producing articles of taste and beauty, from the precious metals, from enamels, from
glass, from embroidery, and from the various other textures and materials on which they delighted
to lavish their skill and ingenuity (both for the various services of the Church, and also
as accessories to the luxuries of the wealthy of all classes)." The present number contains:
1. "An exquisite Cup, designed by Holbein for Queen Jane Seymour;" 2. "Stained Glass of the
13th Century, from the Cathedral of Chartres;" 3. "An exquisite Specimen of Embroidery (of
the date of 1554), from a picture of Queen Mary belonging to the Society of Antiquaries;" and,
4. "Iron-work from the Tomb of Eleanor of Castile." It will be seen, from this enumeration
of them, how varied and well selected are the subjects of this new work of Mr. Shaw, and how
well they are adapted to answer the end which he has in view.

