A moment later he learnt that the duke has suddenly died, and that the dukedom is his. The
rest of the play affords an instance of Beddoes' inability to trace out a story, clearly and
forcibly, to an appointed end. The succeeding acts are crowded with beautiful passages, with
vivid situations, with surprising developments, but the central plot vanishes away into nothing,
like a great river dissipating itself among a thousand streams. It is, indeed, clear enough
that Beddoes was embarrassed with his riches, that his fertile mind conceived too easily, and
that he could never resist the temptation of giving life to his imaginations, even at the cost
of killing his play. His conception of Orazio, for instance, began by being that of a young
Bacchus, as he appears in the opening scene. But Beddoes could not leave him there; he must
have a romantic wife, whom he has deserted; and the wife, once brought into being, must have
an interview with her husband. The interview is an exquisitely beautiful one, but it shatters
Orazio's character, for, in the course of it, he falls desperately in love with his wife; and
meanwhile the wife herself has become so important and interesting a figure that she must be
given a father, who in his turn becomes the central character in more than one exciting scene.
But, by this time, what has happened to the second brother? It is easy to believe that Beddoes
was always ready to begin a new play rather than finish an old one. But it is not so certain
that his method was quite as inexcusable as his critics assert. To the reader, doubtless, his
faulty construction is glaring enough; but Beddoes wrote his plays to be acted, as a passage
in one of his letters very clearly shows. 'You are, I think,' he writes to Kelsall, 'disinclined
to the stage: now I confess that I think this is the highest aim of the dramatist, and should
be very desirous to get on it. To look down on it is a piece of impertinence, as long as one
chooses to write in the form of a play, and is generally the result of one's own inability
to produce anything striking and affecting in that way.' And it is precisely upon the stage
that such faults of construction as those which disfigure Beddoes' tragedies matter least.
An audience, whose attention is held and delighted by a succession of striking incidents clothed
in splendid speech, neither cares nor knows whether the effect of the whole, as a whole, is
worthy of the separate parts. It would be foolish, in the present melancholy condition of the
art of dramatic declamation, to wish for the public performance of Death's Jest Book; but it
is impossible not to hope that the time may come when an adequate representation of that strange
and great work may be something more than 'a possibility more thin than air.' Then, and then
only, shall we be able to take the true measure of Beddoes' genius.

Perhaps, however, the ordinary reader finds Beddoes' lack of construction a less distasteful
quality than his disregard of the common realities of existence. Not only is the subject-matter
of the greater part of his poetry remote and dubious; his very characters themselves seem to
be infected by their creator's delight in the mysterious, the strange, and the unreal. They
have no healthy activity; or, if they have, they invariably lose it in the second act; in the
end, they are all hypochondriac philosophers, puzzling over eternity and dissecting the attributes
of Death. The central idea of Death's Jest Book--the resurrection of a ghost--fails to be truly
effective, because it is difficult to see any clear distinction between the phantom and the
rest of the characters. The duke, saved from death by the timely arrival of Wolfram, exclaims
'Blest hour!' and then, in a moment, begins to ponder, and agonise, and dream:

    And yet how palely, with what faded lips
    Do we salute this unhoped change of fortune!
    Thou art so silent, lady; and I utter
    Shadows of words, like to an ancient ghost,
    Arisen out of hoary centuries
    Where none can speak his language.

And his description of his own revels applies no less to the whole atmosphere of Beddoes' tragedies:

    Voices were heard, most loud, which no man owned:
    There were more shadows too than there were men;
    And all the air more dark and thick than night
    Was heavy, as 'twere made of something more
    Than living breaths.

It would be vain to look, among such spectral imaginings as these, for guidance in practical
affairs, or for illuminating views on men and things, or for a philosophy, or, in short, for
anything which may be called a 'criticism of life.' If a poet must be a critic of life, Beddoes
was certainly no poet. He belongs to the class of writers of which, in English literature,
Spenser, Keats, and Milton are the dominant figures--the writers who are great merely because
of their art. Sir James Stephen was only telling the truth when he remarked that Milton might
have put all that he had to say in Paradise Lost into a prose pamphlet of two or three pages.
But who cares about what Milton had to say? It is his way of saying it that matters; it is
his expression. Take away the expression from the Satires of Pope, or from The Excursion, and,
though you will destroy the poems, you will leave behind a great mass of thought. Take away
the expression from Hyperion, and you will leave nothing at all. To ask which is the better
of the two styles is like asking whether a peach is better than a rose, because, both being
beautiful, you can eat the one and not the other. At any rate, Beddoes is among the roses:
it is in his expression that his greatness lies. His verse is an instrument of many modulations,
of exquisite delicacy, of strange suggestiveness, of amazing power. Playing on it, he can give
utterance to the subtlest visions, such as this:

    Just now a beam of joy hung on his eyelash;
    But, as I looked, it sunk into his eye,
    Like a bruised worm writhing its form of rings
    Into a darkening hole.

Or to the most marvellous of vague and vast conceptions, such as this:

          I begin to hear
    Strange but sweet sounds, and the loud rocky dashing
    Of waves, where time into Eternity
    Falls over ruined worlds.

Or he can evoke sensations of pure loveliness, such as these:

    So fair a creature! of such charms compact
    As nature stints elsewhere: which you may find
    Under the tender eyelid of a serpent,
    Or in the gurge of a kiss-coloured rose,
    By drops and sparks: but when she moves, you see,
    Like water from a crystal overfilled,
    Fresh beauty tremble out of her and lave
    Her fair sides to the ground.

Or he can put into a single line all the long memories of adoration:

          My love was much;
    My life but an inhabitant of his.

Or he can pass in a moment from tiny sweetness to colossal turmoil:

          I should not say
    How thou art like the daisy in Noah's meadow,
    On which the foremost drop of rain fell warm
    And soft at evening: so the little flower
    Wrapped up its leaves, and shut the treacherous water
    Close to the golden welcome of its breast,
    Delighting in the touch of that which led
    The shower of oceans, in whose billowy drops
    Tritons and lions of the sea were warring,
    And sometimes ships on fire sunk in the blood,
    Of their own inmates; others were of ice,
    And some had islands rooted in their waves,
    Beasts on their rocks, and forest-powdering winds,
    And showers tumbling on their tumbling self,
    And every sea of every ruined star
    Was but a drop in the world-melting flood.

He can express alike the beautiful tenderness of love, and the hectic, dizzy, and appalling
frenzy of extreme rage:--

    ... What shall I do? I speak all wrong,
    And lose a soul-full of delicious thought
    By talking. Hush! Let's drink each other up
    By silent eyes. Who lives, but thou and I,
    My heavenly wife?...
    I'll watch thee thus, till I can tell a second
    By thy cheek's change.

In that, one can almost feel the kisses; and, in this, one can almost hear the gnashing of
the teeth. 'Never!' exclaims the duke to his son Torrismond:

    There lies no grain of sand between
    My loved and my detested! Wing thee hence,
    Or thou dost stand to-morrow on a cobweb
    Spun o'er the well of clotted Acheron,
    Whose hydrophobic entrails stream with fire!
    And may this intervening earth be snow,
    And my step burn like the mid coal of Aetna,
    Plunging me, through it all, into the core,
    Where in their graves the dead are shut like seeds,
    If I do not--O, but he is my son!

Is not that tremendous? But, to find Beddoes in his most characteristic mood, one must watch
him weaving his mysterious imagination upon the woof of mortality. One must wander with him
through the pages of Death's Jest Book, one must grow accustomed to the dissolution of reality,
and the opening of the nettled lips of graves; one must learn that 'the dead are most and merriest,'
one must ask--'Are the ghosts eaves-dropping?'--one must realise that 'murder is full of holes.'
Among the ruins of his Gothic cathedral, on whose cloister walls the Dance of Death is painted,
one may speculate at ease over the fragility of existence, and, within the sound of that dark
ocean,

          Whose tumultuous waves
    Are heaped, contending ghosts,

one may understand how it is that

    Death is mightier, stronger, and more faithful
    To man than Life.

Lingering there, one may watch the Deaths come down from their cloister, and dance and sing
amid the moonlight; one may laugh over the grotesque contortions of skeletons; one may crack
jokes upon corruption; one may sit down with phantoms, and drink to the health of Death.

In private intercourse Beddoes was the least morbid of human beings. His mind was like one
of those Gothic cathedrals of which he was so fond--mysterious within, and filled with a light
at once richer and less real than the light of day; on the outside, firm, and towering, and
immediately impressive; and embellished, both inside and out, with grinning gargoyles. His
conversation, Kelsall tells us, was full of humour and vitality, and untouched by any trace
of egoism or affectation. He loved discussion, plunging into it with fire, and carrying it
onward with high dexterity and good-humoured force. His letters are excellent: simple, spirited,
spicy, and as original as his verse; flavoured with that vein of rattling open-air humour which
had produced his school-boy novel in the style of Fielding. He was a man whom it would have
been a rare delight to know. His character, so eminently English, compact of courage, of originality,
of imagination, and with something coarse in it as well, puts one in mind of Hamlet: not the
melodramatic sentimentalist of the stage; but the real Hamlet, Horatio's Hamlet, who called
his father's ghost old truepenny, who forged his uncle's signature, who fought Laertes, and
ranted in a grave, and lugged the guts into the neighbour room. His tragedy, like Hamlet's,
was the tragedy of an over-powerful will--a will so strong as to recoil upon itself, and fall
into indecision. It is easy for a weak man to be decided--there is so much to make him so;
but a strong man, who can do anything, sometimes leaves everything undone. Fortunately Beddoes,
though he did far less than he might have done, possessed so rich a genius that what he did,
though small in quantity, is in quality beyond price. 'I might have been, among other things,
a good poet,' were his last words. 'Among other things'! Aye, there's the rub. But, in spite
of his own 'might have been,' a good poet he was. Perhaps for him, after all, there was very
little to regret; his life was full of high nobility; and what other way of death would have
befitted the poet of death? There is a thought constantly recurring throughout his writings--in
his childish as in his most mature work--the thought of the beauty and the supernal happiness
of soft and quiet death. He had visions of 'rosily dying,' of 'turning to daisies gently in
the grave,' of a 'pink reclining death,' of death coming like a summer cloud over the soul.
'Let her deathly life pass into death,' says one of his earliest characters, 'like music on
the night wind.' And, in Death's Jest Book, Sibylla has the same thoughts:

          O Death! I am thy friend,
    I struggle not with thee, I love thy state:
    Thou canst be sweet and gentle, be so now;
    And let me pass praying away into thee,
    As twilight still does into starry night.

Did his mind, obsessed and overwhelmed by images of death, crave at last for the one thing
stranger than all these--the experience of it? It is easy to believe so, and that, ill, wretched,
and abandoned by Degen at the miserable Cigogne Hotel, he should seek relief in the gradual
dissolution which attends upon loss of blood. And then, when he had recovered, when he was
almost happy once again, the old thoughts, perhaps, came crowding back upon him--thoughts of
the futility of life, and the supremacy of death and the mystical whirlpool of the unknown,
and the long quietude of the grave. In the end, Death had grown to be something more than Death
to him--it was, mysteriously and transcendentally, Love as well.

    Death's darts are sometimes Love's. So Nature tells,
    When laughing waters close o'er drowning men;
    When in flowers' honied corners poison dwells;
    When Beauty dies: and the unwearied ken
    Of those who seek a cure for long despair
    Will learn ...

What learning was it that rewarded him? What ghostly knowledge of eternal love?

    If there are ghosts to raise,
      What shall I call,
    Out of hell's murky haze,
      Heaven's blue pall?
    --Raise my loved long-lost boy
    To lead me to his joy.--
      There are no ghosts to raise;
      Out of death lead no ways;
        Vain is the call.

    --Know'st thou not ghosts to sue?
      No love thou hast.
    Else lie, as I will do,
      And breathe thy last.
    So out of Life's fresh crown
    Fall like a rose-leaf down.
      Thus are the ghosts to woo;
      Thus are all dreams made true,
        Ever to last!

1907.

HENRI BEYLE

In the whole of French literature it would be difficult to point to a figure at once so important,
so remarkable, and so little known to English readers as Henri Beyle. Most of us are, no doubt,
fairly familiar with his pseudonym of 'Stendhal'; some of us have read Le Rouge et Le Noir
and La Chartreuse de Parme; but how many of us have any further knowledge of a man whose works
are at the present moment appearing in Paris in all the pomp of an elaborate and complete edition,
every scrap of whose manuscripts is being collected and deciphered with enthusiastic care,
and in honour of whose genius the literary periodicals of the hour are filling entire numbers
with exegesis and appreciation? The eminent critic, M. André Gide, when asked lately to name
the novel which stands in his opinion first among the novels of France, declared that since,
without a doubt, the place belongs to one or other of the novels of Stendhal, his only difficulty
was in making his choice among these; and he finally decided upon La Chartreuse de Parme. According
to this high authority, Henri Beyle was indisputably the creator of the greatest work of fiction
in the French language, yet on this side of the Channel we have hardly more than heard of him!
Nor is it merely as a writer that Beyle is admired in France. As a man, he seems to have come
in, sixty or seventy years after his death, for a singular devotion. There are 'Beylistes,'
or 'Stendhaliens,' who dwell with rapture upon every detail of the master's private life, who
extend with pious care the long catalogue of his amorous adventures, who discuss the shades
of his character with the warmth of personal friendship, and register his opinions with a zeal
which is hardly less than sectarian. But indeed it is precisely in these extremes of his French
devotees that we shall find a clue to the explanation of our own indifference. Beyle's mind
contained, in a highly exaggerated form, most of the peculiarly distinctive elements of the
French character. This does not mean that he was a typical Frenchman; far from it. He did not,
like Voltaire or Hugo, strike a note to which the whole national genius vibrated in response.
He has never been, it is unlikely that he ever will be, a popular writer. His literary reputation
in France has been confined, until perhaps quite lately, to a small distinguished circle. 'On
me lira,' he was fond of saying, 'vers 1880'; and the 'Beylistes' point to the remark in triumph
as one further proof of the almost divine prescience of the great man. But in truth Beyle was
always read by the élite of French critics and writers--'the happy few,' as he used to call
them; and among these he has never been without enthusiastic admirers. During his lifetime
Balzac, in an enormous eulogy of La Chartreuse de Parme, paid him one of the most magnificent
compliments ever received by a man of letters from a fellow craftsman. In the next generation
Taine declared himself his disciple; a little later--'vers 1880,' in fact--we find Zola describing
him as 'notre père à tous,' and M. Bourget followed with elaborate incense. To-day we have
writers of such different tendencies as M. Barrès and M. Gide acclaiming him as a supreme master,
and the fashionable idolatry of the 'Beylistes.' Yet, at the same time, running parallel to
this stream of homage, it is easy to trace a line of opinion of a totally different kind. It
is the opinion of the more solid, the more middle-class elements of French life. Thus Sainte-Beuve,
in two characteristic 'Lundis,' poured a great deal of very tepid water upon Balzac's flaming
panegyric. Then Flaubert--'vers 1880,' too--confessed that he could see very little in Stendhal.
And, only a few years ago, M. Chuquet, of the Institute, took the trouble to compose a thick
book in which he has collected with scrupulous detail all the known facts concerning the life
and writings of a man whom he forthwith proceeds to damn through five hundred pages of faint
praise. These discrepancies are curious: how can we account for such odd differences of taste?
How are we to reconcile the admiration of Balzac with the dislike of Flaubert, the raptures
of M. Bourget and M. Barrès with the sniffs of Sainte-Beuve and M. Chuquet of the Institute?
The explanation seems to be that Beyle occupies a position in France analogous to that of Shelley
in England. Shelley is not a national hero, not because he lacked the distinctive qualities
of an Englishman, but for the opposite reason--because he possessed so many of them in an extreme
degree. The idealism, the daring, the imagination, and the unconventionality which give Shakespeare,
Nelson, and Dr. Johnson their place in our pantheon--all these were Shelley's, but they were
his in too undiluted and intense a form, with the result that, while he will never fail of
worshippers among us, there will also always be Englishmen unable to appreciate him at all.
Such, mutatis mutandis--and in this case the proviso is a very large one--is the position of
Beyle in France. After all, when Bunthorne asked for a not-too-French French bean he showed
more commonsense than he intended. Beyle is a too-French French writer--too French even for
the bulk of his own compatriots; and so for us it is only natural that he should be a little
difficult. Yet this very fact is in itself no bad reason for giving him some attention. An
understanding of this very Gallic individual might give us a new insight into the whole strange
race. And besides, the curious creature is worth looking at for his own sake too.

But, when one tries to catch him and pin him down on the dissecting-table, he turns out to
be exasperatingly elusive. Even his most fervent admirers cannot agree among themselves as
to the true nature of his achievements. Balzac thought of him as an artist, Taine was captivated
by his conception of history, M. Bourget adores him as a psychologist, M. Barrès lays stress
upon his 'sentiment d'honneur,' and the 'Beylistes' see in him the embodiment of modernity.
Certainly very few writers have had the good fortune to appeal at once so constantly and in
so varied a manner to succeeding generations as Henri Beyle. The circumstances of his life
no doubt in part account for the complexity of his genius. He was born in 1783, when the ancien
régime was still in full swing; his early manhood was spent in the turmoil of the Napoleonic
wars; he lived to see the Bourbon reaction, the Romantic revival, the revolution of 1830, and
the establishment of Louis Philippe; and when he died, at the age of sixty, the nineteenth
century was nearly half-way through. Thus his life exactly spans the interval between the old
world and the new. His family, which belonged to the magistracy of Grenoble, preserved the
living tradition of the eighteenth century. His grandfather was a polite, amiable, periwigged
sceptic after the manner of Fontenelle, who always spoke of 'M. de Voltaire' with a smile 'mélangé
de respect et d'affection'; and when the Terror came, two representatives of the people were
sent down to Grenoble, with the result that Beyle's father was pronounced (with a hundred and
fifty others) 'notoirement suspect' of disaffection to the Republic, and confined to his house.
At the age of sixteen Beyle arrived in Paris, just after the coup d'état of the 18th Brumaire
had made Bonaparte First Consul, and he immediately came under the influence of his cousin
Daru, that extraordinary man to whose terrific energies was due the organisation of Napoleon's
greatest armies, and whose leisure moments--for apparently he had leisure moments--were devoted
to the composition of idylls in the style of Tibullus and to an enormous correspondence on
literary topics with the poetasters of the day. It was as a subordinate to this remarkable
personage that Beyle spent nearly the whole of the next fifteen years of his life--in Paris,
in Italy, in Germany, in Russia--wherever the whirling tempest of the Napoleonic policy might
happen to carry him. His actual military experience was considerably slighter than what, in
after years, he liked to give his friends to understand it had been. For hardly more than a
year, during the Italian campaign, he was in the army as a lieutenant of dragoons: the rest
of his public service was spent in the commissariat department. The descriptions which he afterwards
delighted to give of his adventures at Marengo, at Jéna, at Wagram, or at the crossing of the
Niémen have been shown by M. Chuquet's unkind researches to have been imaginary. Beyle was
present at only one great battle--Bautzen. 'Nous voyons fort bien,' he wrote in his journal
on the following day, 'de midi à trois heures, tout ce qu'on peut voir d'une bataille, c'est
à dire rien.' He was, however, at Moscow in 1812, and he accompanied the army through the horrors
of the retreat. When the conflagration had broken out in the city he had abstracted from one
of the deserted palaces a finely bound copy of the Facéties of Voltaire; the book helped to
divert his mind as he lay crouched by the campfire through the terrible nights that followed;
but, as his companions showed their disapproval of anyone who could smile over Akakia and Pompignan
in such a situation, one day he left the red-morocco volume behind him in the snow.

The fall of Napoleon threw Beyle out of employment, and the period of his literary activity
began. His books were not successful; his fortune gradually dwindled; and he drifted in Paris
and Italy, and even in England, more and more disconsolately, with thoughts of suicide sometimes
in his head. But in 1830 the tide of his fortunes turned. The revolution of July, by putting
his friends into power, brought him a competence in the shape of an Italian consulate; and
in the same year he gained for the first time some celebrity by the publication of Le Rouge
et Le Noir. The rest of his life was spent in the easy discharge of his official duties at
Civita Vecchia, alternating with periods of leave--one of them lasted for three years--spent
in Paris among his friends, of whom the most distinguished was Prosper Mérimée. In 1839 appeared
his last published work--La Chartreuse de Parme; and three years later he died suddenly in
Paris. His epitaph, composed by himself with the utmost care, was as follows:

     QUI GIACE ARRIGO BEYLE MILANESE VISSE, SCRISSE, AMO.

The words, read rightly, indicate many things--his adoration of Italy and Milan, his eccentricity,
his scorn of the conventions of society and the limits of nationality, his adventurous life,
his devotion to literature, and, lastly, the fact that, through all the varieties of his experience--in
the earliest years of his childhood, in his agitated manhood, in his calm old age--there had
never been a moment when he was not in love.

Beyle's work falls into two distinct groups--the first consisting of his novels, and the second
of his miscellaneous writings, which include several biographies, a dissertation on Love, some
books of criticism and travel, his letters and various autobiographical fragments. The bulk
of the latter group is large; much of it has only lately seen the light; and more of it, at
present in MS. at the library of Grenoble, is promised us by the indefatigable editors of the
new complete edition which is now appearing in Paris. The interest of this portion of Beyle's
writings is almost entirely personal: that of his novels is mainly artistic. These two remarkable
works lose none of their significance if we consider the time at which they were composed.
It was in the full flood of the Romantic revival, that marvellous hour in the history of French
literature when the tyranny of two centuries was shattered for ever, and a boundless wealth
of inspirations, possibilities, and beauties before undreamt-of suddenly burst upon the view.
It was the hour of Hugo, Vigny, Musset, Gautier, Balzac, with their new sonorities and golden
cadences, their new lyric passion and dramatic stress, their new virtuosities, their new impulse
towards the strange and the magnificent, their new desire for diversity and the manifold comprehension
of life. But, if we turn to the contemporaneous pages of Stendhal, what do we find? We find
a succession of colourless, unemphatic sentences; we find cold reasoning and exact narrative;
we find polite irony and dry wit. The spirit of the eighteenth century is everywhere; and if
the old gentleman with the perruque and the 'M. de Voltaire' could have taken a glance at his
grandson's novels, he would have rapped his snuff-box and approved. It is true that Beyle joined
the ranks of the Romantics for a moment with a brochure attacking Racine at the expense of
Shakespeare; but this was merely one of those contradictory changes of front which were inherent
in his nature; and in reality the whole Romantic movement meant nothing to him. There is a
story of a meeting in the house of a common friend between him and Hugo, in which the two men
faced each other like a couple of cats with their backs up and their whiskers bristling. No
wonder! But Beyle's true attitude towards his great contemporaries was hardly even one of hostility:
he simply could not open their books. As for Chateaubriand, the god of their idolatry, he loathed
him like poison. He used to describe how, in his youth, he had been on the point of fighting
a duel with an officer who had ventured to maintain that a phrase in Atala--'la cime indéterminée
des forêts'--was not intolerable. Probably he was romancing (M. Chuquet says so); but at any
rate the story sums up symbolically Beyle's attitude towards his art. To him the whole apparatus
of 'fine writing'--the emphatic phrase, the picturesque epithet, the rounded rhythm--was anathema.
The charm that such ornaments might bring was in reality only a cloak for loose thinking and
feeble observation. Even the style of the eighteenth century was not quite his ideal; it was
too elegant; there was an artificial neatness about the form which imposed itself upon the
substance, and degraded it. No, there was only one example of the perfect style, and that was
the Code Napoléon; for there alone everything was subordinated to the exact and complete expression
of what was to be said. A statement of law can have no place for irrelevant beauties, or the
vagueness of personal feeling; by its very nature, it must resemble a sheet of plate glass
through which every object may be seen with absolute distinctness, in its true shape. Beyle
declared that he was in the habit of reading several paragraphs of the Code every morning after
breakfast 'pour prendre le ton.' This again was for long supposed to be one of his little jokes;
but quite lately the searchers among the MSS. at Grenoble have discovered page after page copied
out from the Code in Beyle's handwriting. No doubt, for that wayward lover of paradoxes, the
real joke lay in everybody taking for a joke what he took quite seriously.

This attempt to reach the exactitude and the detachment of an official document was not limited
to Beyle's style; it runs through the whole tissue of his work. He wished to present life dispassionately
and intellectually, and if he could have reduced his novels to a series of mathematical symbols,
he would have been charmed. The contrast between his method and that of Balzac is remarkable.
That wonderful art of materialisation, of the sensuous evocation of the forms, the qualities,
the very stuff and substance of things, which was perhaps Balzac's greatest discovery, Beyle
neither possessed nor wished to possess. Such matters were to him of the most subordinate importance,
which it was no small part of the novelist's duty to keep very severely in their place. In
the earlier chapters of Le Rouge et Le Noir, for instance, he is concerned with almost the
same subject as Balzac in the opening of Les Illusions Perdues--the position of a young man
in a provincial town, brought suddenly from the humblest surroundings into the midst of the
leading society of the place through his intimate relations with a woman of refinement. But
while in Balzac's pages what emerges is the concrete vision of provincial life down to the
last pimple on the nose of the lowest footman, Beyle concentrates his whole attention on the
personal problem, hints in a few rapid strokes at what Balzac has spent all his genius in describing,
and reveals to us instead, with the precision of a surgeon at an operation, the inmost fibres
of his hero's mind. In fact, Beyle's method is the classical method--the method of selection,
of omission, of unification, with the object of creating a central impression of supreme reality.
Zola criticises him for disregarding 'le milieu.'

     Il y a [he says] un épisode célèbre dans 'Le Rouge et Le Noir,' la
     scène où Julien, assis un soir à côté de Mme. de Rénal, sous les
     branches noires d'un arbre, se fait un devoir de lui prendre la
     main, pendant qu'elle cause avec Mme. Derville. C'est un petit
     drame muet d'une grande puissance, et Stendhal y a analysé
     merveilleusement les états d'âme de ses deux personnages. Or, le
     milieu n'apparaît pas une seule fois. Nous pourrions être n'importe
     où dans n'importe quelles conditions, la scène resterait la même
     pourvu qu'il fit noir ... Donnez l'épisode à un écrivain pour qui
     les milieux existent, et dans la défaite de cette femme, il fera
     entrer la nuit, avec ses odeurs, avec ses voix, avec ses voluptés
     molles. Et cet écrivain sera dans la vérité, son tableau sera plus
     complet.

More complete, perhaps; but would it be more convincing? Zola, with his statistical conception
of art, could not understand that you could tell a story properly unless you described in detail
every contingent fact. He could not see that Beyle was able, by simply using the symbol 'nuit,'
to suggest the 'milieu' at once to the reader's imagination. Everybody knows all about the
night's accessories--'ses odeurs, ses voix, ses voluptés molles'; and what a relief it is to
be spared, for once in a way, an elaborate expatiation upon them! And Beyle is perpetually
evoking the gratitude of his readers in this way. 'Comme il insiste peu!' as M. Gide exclaims.
Perhaps the best test of a man's intelligence is his capacity for making a summary. Beyle knew
this, and his novels are full of passages which read like nothing so much as extraordinarily
able summaries of some enormous original narrative which has been lost.

It was not that he was lacking in observation, that he had no eye for detail, or no power of
expressing it; on the contrary, his vision was of the sharpest, and his pen could call up pictorial
images of startling vividness, when he wished. But he very rarely did wish: it was apt to involve
a tiresome insistence. In his narratives he is like a brilliant talker in a sympathetic circle,
skimming swiftly from point to point, taking for granted the intelligence of his audience,
not afraid here and there to throw out a vague 'etc.' when the rest of the sentence is too
obvious to state; always plain of speech, never self-assertive, and taking care above all things
never to force the note. His famous description of the Battle of Waterloo in La Chartreuse
de Parme is certainly the finest example of this side of his art. Here he produces an indelible
impression by a series of light touches applied with unerring skill. Unlike Zola, unlike Tolstoi,
he shows us neither the loathsomeness nor the devastation of a battlefield, but its insignificance,
its irrelevant detail, its unmeaning grotesquenesses and indignities, its incoherence, and
its empty weariness. Remembering his own experience at Bautzen, he has made his hero--a young
Italian impelled by Napoleonic enthusiasm to join the French army as a volunteer on the eve
of the battle--go through the great day in such a state of vague perplexity that in the end
he can never feel quite certain that he really was at Waterloo. He experiences a succession
of trivial and unpleasant incidents, culminating in his being hoisted off his horse by two
of his comrades, in order that a general, who has had his own shot from under him, might be
supplied with a mount; for the rest, he crosses and recrosses some fields, comes upon a dead
body in a ditch, drinks brandy with a vivandière, gallops over a field covered with dying men,
has an indefinite skirmish in a wood--and it is over. At one moment, having joined the escort
of some generals, the young man allows his horse to splash into a stream, thereby covering
one of the generals with muddy water from head to foot. The passage that follows is a good
specimen of Beyle's narrative style:

     En arrivant sur l'autre rive, Fabrice y avait trouvé les généraux
     tout seuls; le bruit du canon lui sembla redoubler; ce fut à peine
     s'il entendit le général, par lui si bien mouillé, qui criait à son
     oreille:

     Où as-tu pris ce cheval?

     Fabrice était tellement troublé, qu'il répondit en Italien: l'ho
     comprato poco fa. (Je viens de l'acheter à l'instant.)

     Que dis-tu? lui cria le général.

     Mais le tapage devint tellement fort en ce moment, que Fabrice ne
     put lui répondre. Nous avouerons que notre héros était fort peu
     héros en ce moment. Toutefois, la peur ne venait chez lui qu'en
     seconde ligne; il était surtout scandalisé de ce bruit qui lui
     faisait mal aux oreilles. L'escorte prit le galop; on traversait
     une grande pièce de terre labourée, située au delà du canal, et ce
     champ était jonché de cadavres.

How unemphatic it all is! What a paucity of epithet, what a reticence in explanation! How a
Romantic would have lingered over the facial expression of the general, and how a Naturalist
would have analysed that 'tapage'! And yet, with all their efforts, would they have succeeded
in conveying that singular impression of disturbance, of cross-purposes, of hurry, and of ill-defined
fear, which Beyle with his quiet terseness has produced?

It is, however, in his psychological studies that the detached and intellectual nature of Beyle's
method is most clearly seen. When he is describing, for instance, the development of Julien
Sorel's mind in Le Rouge et Le Noir, when he shows us the soul of the young peasant with its
ignorance, its ambition, its pride, going step by step into the whirling vortex of life--then
we seem to be witnessing not so much the presentment of a fiction as the unfolding of some
scientific fact. The procedure is almost mathematical: a proposition is established, the inference
is drawn, the next proposition follows, and so on until the demonstration is complete. Here
the influence of the eighteenth century is very strongly marked. Beyle had drunk deeply of
that fountain of syllogism and analysis that flows through the now forgotten pages of Helvétius
and Condillac; he was an ardent votary of logic in its austerest form--'la lo-gique' he used
to call it, dividing the syllables in a kind of awe-inspired emphasis; and he considered the
ratiocinative style of Montesquieu almost as good as that of the Code Civil.

If this had been all, if we could sum him up simply as an acute and brilliant writer who displays
the scientific and prosaic sides of the French genius in an extreme degree, Beyle's position
in literature would present very little difficulty. He would take his place at once as a late--an
abnormally late--product of the eighteenth century. But he was not that. In his blood there
was a virus which had never tingled in the veins of Voltaire. It was the virus of modern life--that
new sensibility, that new passionateness, which Rousseau had first made known to the world,
and which had won its way over Europe behind the thunder of Napoleon's artillery. Beyle had
passed his youth within earshot of that mighty roar, and his inmost spirit could never lose
the echo of it. It was in vain that he studied Condillac and modelled his style on the Code;
in vain that he sang the praises of la lo-gique, shrugged his shoulders at the Romantics, and
turned the cold eye of a scientific investigator upon the phenomena of life; he remained essentially
a man of feeling. His unending series of grandes passions was one unmistakable sign of this;
another was his intense devotion to the Fine Arts. Though his taste in music and painting was
the taste of his time--the literary and sentimental taste of the age of Rossini and Canova--he
nevertheless brought to the appreciation of works of art a kind of intimate gusto which reveals
the genuineness of his emotion. The 'jouissances d'ange,' with which at his first entrance
into Italy he heard at Novara the Matrimonio Segreto of Cimarosa, marked an epoch in his life.
He adored Mozart: 'I can imagine nothing more distasteful to me,' he said, 'than a thirty-mile
walk through the mud; but I would take one at this moment if I knew that I should hear a good
performance of Don Giovanni at the end of it.' The Virgins of Guido Reni sent him into ecstasies
and the Goddesses of Correggio into raptures. In short, as he himself admitted, he never could
resist 'le Beau' in whatever form he found it. Le Beau! The phrase is characteristic of the
peculiar species of ingenuous sensibility which so oddly agitated this sceptical man of the
world. His whole vision of life was coloured by it. His sense of values was impregnated with
what he called his 'espagnolisme'--his immense admiration for the noble and the high-sounding
in speech or act or character--an admiration which landed him often enough in hysterics and
absurdity. Yet this was the soil in which a temperament of caustic reasonableness had somehow
implanted itself. The contrast is surprising, because it is so extreme. Other men have been
by turns sensible and enthusiastic: but who before or since has combined the emotionalism of
a schoolgirl with the cold penetration of a judge on the bench? Beyle, for instance, was capable
of writing, in one of those queer epitaphs of himself which he was constantly composing, the
high-falutin' words 'Il respecta un seul homme: Napoléon'; and yet, as he wrote them, he must
have remembered well enough that when he met Napoleon face to face his unabashed scrutiny had
detected swiftly that the man was a play-actor, and a vulgar one at that. Such were the contradictions
of his double nature, in which the elements, instead of being mixed, came together, as it were,
in layers, like superimposed strata of chalk and flint.

In his novels this cohabitation of opposites is responsible both for what is best and what
is worst. When the two forces work in unison the result is sometimes of extraordinary value--a
product of a kind which it would be difficult to parallel in any other author. An eye of icy
gaze is turned upon the tumultuous secrets of passion, and the pangs of love are recorded in
the language of Euclid. The image of the surgeon inevitably suggests itself--the hand with
the iron nerve and the swift knife laying bare the trembling mysteries within. It is the intensity
of Beyle's observation, joined with such an exactitude of exposition, that makes his dry pages
sometimes more thrilling than the wildest tale of adventure or all the marvels of high romance.
The passage in La Chartreuse de Parme describing Count Mosca's jealousy has this quality, which
appears even more clearly in the chapters of Le Rouge et Le Noir concerning Julien Sorel and
Mathilde de la Mole. Here Beyle has a subject after his own heart. The loves of the peasant
youth and the aristocratic girl, traversed and agitated by their overweening pride, and triumphing
at last rather over themselves than over each other--these things make up a gladiatorial combat
of 'espagnolismes,' which is displayed to the reader with a supreme incisiveness. The climax
is reached when Mathilde at last gives way to her passion, and throws herself into the arms
of Julien, who forces himself to make no response:

     Ses bras se roidirent, tant l'effort imposé par la politique était
     pénible. Je ne dois pas même me permettre de presser contre mon
     coeur ce corps souple et charmant; ou elle me méprise, ou elle me
     maltraite. Quel affreux caractère!

     Et en maudissant le caractère de Mathilde, il l'en aimait cent fois
     plus; il lui semblait avoir dans ses bras une reine.

     L'impassible froideur de Julien redoubla le malheur de Mademoiselle
     de la Mole. Elle était loin d'avoir le sang-froid nécessaire pour
     chercher à deviner dans ses yeux ce qu'il sentait pour elle en cet
     instant. Elle ne put se résoudre à le regarder; elle tremblait de
     rencontrer l'expression du mépris.

     Assise sur le divan de la bibliothèque, immobile et la tête tournée
     du côté opposé à Julien, elle était en proie aux plus vives
     douleurs que l'orgueil et l'amour puissent faire éprouver à une âme
     humaine. Dans quelle atroce démarche elle venait de tomber!

     Il m'était réservé, malheureuse que je suis! de voir repoussées les
     avances les plus indécentes! Et repoussées par qui? ajoutait
     l'orgueil fou de douleur, repoussées par un domestique de mon père.

     C'est ce que je ne souffrirai pas, dit-elle à haute voix.

At that moment she suddenly sees some unopened letters addressed to Julien by another woman.

     --Ainsi, s'écria-t-elle hors d'elle-même, non seulement vous êtes
     bien avec elle, mais encore vous la méprisez. Vous, un homme de
     rien, mépriser Madame la Maréchale de Fervaques!

     --Ah! pardon, mon ami, ajouta-t-elle en se jetant à ses genoux,
     méprise-moi si tu veux, mais aime-moi, je ne puis plus vivre privée
     de ton amour. Et elle tomba tout à fait évanouie.

     --La voilà donc, cette orgueilleuse, à mes pieds! se dit Julien.

Such is the opening of this wonderful scene, which contains the concentrated essence of Beyle's
genius, and which, in its combination of high passion, intellectual intensity, and dramatic
force, may claim comparison with the great dialogues of Corneille.

'Je fais tous les efforts possibles pour être sec,' he says of himself. 'Je veux imposer silence
à mon coeur, qui croit avoir beaucoup à dire. Je tremble toujours de n'avoir écrit qu'un soupir,
quand je crois avoir noté une vérité.' Often he succeeds, but not always. At times his desire
for dryness becomes a mannerism and fills whole pages with tedious and obscure argumentation.
And, at other times, his sensibility gets the upper hand, throws off all control, and revels
in an orgy of melodrama and 'espagnolisme.' Do what he will, he cannot keep up a consistently
critical attitude towards the creatures of his imagination: he depreciates his heroes with
extreme care, but in the end they get the better of him and sweep him off his feet. When, in
La Chartreuse de Parme, Fabrice kills a man in a duel, his first action is to rush to a looking-glass
to see whether his beauty has been injured by a cut in the face; and Beyle does not laugh at
this; he is impressed by it. In the same book he lavishes all his art on the creation of the
brilliant, worldly, sceptical Duchesse de Sanseverina, and then, not quite satisfied, he makes
her concoct and carry out the murder of the reigning Prince in order to satisfy a desire for
amorous revenge. This really makes her perfect. But the most striking example of Beyle's inability
to resist the temptation of sacrificing his head to his heart is in the conclusion of Le Rouge
et Le Noir, where Julien, to be revenged on a former mistress who defames him, deliberately
goes down into the country, buys a pistol, and shoots the lady in church. Not only is Beyle
entranced by the bravura of this senseless piece of brutality, but he destroys at a blow the
whole atmosphere of impartial observation which fills the rest of the book, lavishes upon his
hero the blindest admiration, and at last, at the moment of Julien's execution, even forgets
himself so far as to write a sentence in the romantic style: 'Jamais cette tête n'avait été
aussi poétique qu'au moment où elle allait tomber.' Just as Beyle, in his contrary mood, carries
to an extreme the French love of logical precision, so in these rhapsodies he expresses in
an exaggerated form a very different but an equally characteristic quality of his compatriots--their
instinctive responsiveness to fine poses. It is a quality that Englishmen in particular find
it hard to sympathise with. They remain stolidily unmoved when their neighbours are in ecstasies.
They are repelled by the 'noble' rhetoric of the French Classical Drama; they find the tirades
of Napoleon, which animated the armies of France to victory, pieces of nauseous clap-trap.
And just now it is this side--to us the obviously weak side--of Beyle's genius that seems to
be most in favour with French critics. To judge from M. Barrès, writing dithyrambically of
Beyle's 'sentiment d'honneur,' that is his true claim to greatness. The sentiment of honour
is all very well, one is inclined to mutter on this side of the Channel; but oh, for a little
sentiment of humour too!

The view of Beyle's personality which his novels give us may be seen with far greater detail
in his miscellaneous writings. It is to these that his most modern admirers devote their main
attention--particularly to his letters and his autobiographies; but they are all of them highly
characteristic of their author, and--whatever the subject may be, from a guide to Rome to a
life of Napoleon--one gathers in them, scattered up and down through their pages, a curious,
dimly adumbrated philosophy--an ill-defined and yet intensely personal point of view--le Beylisme.
It is in fact almost entirely in this secondary quality that their interest lies; their ostensible
subject-matter is unimportant. An apparent exception is the book in which Beyle has embodied
his reflections upon Love. The volume, with its meticulous apparatus of analysis, definition,
and classification, which gives it the air of being a parody of L'Esprit des Lois, is yet full
of originality, of lively anecdote and keen observation. Nobody but Beyle could have written
it; nobody but Beyle could have managed to be at once so stimulating and so jejune, so clear-sighted
and so exasperating. But here again, in reality, it is not the question at issue that is interesting--one
learns more of the true nature of Love in one or two of La Bruyère's short sentences than in
all Beyle's three hundred pages of disquisition; but what is absorbing is the sense that comes
to one, as one reads it, of the presence, running through it all, of a restless and problematical
spirit. 'Le Beylisme' is certainly not susceptible of any exact definition; its author was
too capricious, too unmethodical, in spite of his lo-gique, ever to have framed a coherent
philosophy; it is essentially a thing of shreds and patches, of hints, suggestions, and quick
visions of flying thoughts. M. Barrès says that what lies at the bottom of it is a 'passion
de collectionner les belles énergies.' But there are many kinds of 'belles énergies,' and some
of them certainly do not fit into the framework of 'le Beylisme.' 'Quand je suis arrêté par
des voleurs, ou qu'on me tire des coups de fusil, je me sens une grande colère contre le gouvernement
et le curé de l'endroit. Quand au voleur, il me plaît, s'il est énergique, car il m'amuse.'
It was the energy of self-assertiveness that pleased Beyle; that of self-restraint did not
interest him. The immorality of the point of view is patent, and at times it appears to be
simply based upon the common selfishness of an egotist. But in reality it was something more
significant than that. The 'chasse au bonheur' which Beyle was always advocating was no respectable
epicureanism; it had about it a touch of the fanatical. There was anarchy in it--a hatred of
authority, an impatience with custom, above all a scorn for the commonplace dictates of ordinary
morality. Writing his memoirs at the age of fifty-two, Beyle looked back with pride on the
joy that he had felt, as a child of ten, amid his royalist family at Grenoble, when the news
came of the execution of Louis XVI. His father announced it:

     --C'en est fait, dit-il avec un gros soupir, ils l'ont assassiné.

     Je fus saisi d'un des plus vifs mouvements de joie que j'ai éprouvé
     en ma vie. Le lecteur pensera peut-être que je suis cruel, mais tel
     j'étais à 5 X 2, tel je suis à 10 X 5 + 2 ... Je puis dire que
     l'approbation des êtres, que je regarde comme faibles, m'est
     absolument indifférente.

These are the words of a born rebel, and such sentiments are constantly recurring in his books.
He is always discharging his shafts against some established authority; and, of course, he
reserved his bitterest hatred for the proudest and most insidious of all authorities--the Roman
Catholic Church. It is odd to find some of the 'Beylistes' solemnly hailing the man whom the
power of the Jesuits haunted like a nightmare, and whose account of the seminary in Le Rouge
et Le Noir is one of the most scathing pictures of religious tyranny ever drawn, as a prophet
of the present Catholic movement in France. For in truth, if Beyle was a prophet of anything
he was a prophet of that spirit of revolt in modern thought which first reached a complete
expression in the pages of Nietzsche. His love of power and self-will, his aristocratic outlook,
his scorn of the Christian virtues, his admiration of the Italians of the Renaissance, his
repudiation of the herd and the morality of the herd--these qualities, flashing strangely among
his observations on Rossini and the Coliseum, his reflections on the memories of the past and
his musings on the ladies of the present, certainly give a surprising foretaste of the fiery
potion of Zarathustra. The creator of the Duchesse de Sanseverina had caught more than a glimpse
of the transvaluation of all values. Characteristically enough, the appearance of this new
potentiality was only observed by two contemporary forces in European society--Goethe and the
Austrian police. It is clear that Goethe alone among the critics of the time understood that
Beyle was something more than a novelist, and discerned an uncanny significance in his pages.
'I do not like reading M. de Stendhal,' he observed to Winckelmann, 'but I cannot help doing
so. He is extremely free and extremely impertinent, and ... I recommend you to buy all his
books.' As for the Austrian police, they had no doubt about the matter. Beyle's book of travel,
Rome, Naples et Florence, was, they decided, pernicious and dangerous in the highest degree;
and the poor man was hunted out of Milan in consequence.

It would be a mistake to suppose that Beyle displayed in his private life the qualities of
the superman. Neither his virtues nor his vices were on the grand scale. In his own person
he never seems to have committed an 'espagnolisme.' Perhaps his worst sin was that of plagiarism:
his earliest book, a life of Haydn, was almost entirely 'lifted' from the work of a learned
German; and in his next he embodied several choice extracts culled from the Edinburgh Review.
On this occasion he was particularly delighted, since the Edinburgh, in reviewing the book,
innocently selected for special approbation the very passages which he had stolen. It is singular
that so original a writer should have descended to pilfering. But Beyle was nothing if not
inconsistent. With all his Classicism he detested Racine; with all his love of music he could
see nothing in Beethoven; he adored Italy, and, so soon as he was given his Italian consulate,
he was usually to be found in Paris. As his life advanced he grew more and more wayward, capricious,
and eccentric. He indulged in queer mystifications, covering his papers with false names and
anagrams--for the police, he said, were on his track, and he must be careful. His love-affairs
became less and less fortunate; but he was still sometimes successful, and when he was he registered
the fact--upon his braces. He dreamed and drifted a great deal. He went up to San Pietro in
Montorio, and looking over Rome, wrote the initials of his past mistresses in the dust. He
tried to make up his mind whether Napoleon after all was the only being he respected; no--there
was also Mademoiselle de Lespinasse. He went to the opera at Naples and noted that 'la musique
parfaite, comme la pantomime parfaite, me fait songer à ce qui forme actuellement l'objet de
mes rêveries et me fait venir des idées excellentes: ... or, ce soir, je ne puis me dissimuler
que j'ai le malheur of being too great an admirer of Lady L....' He abandoned himself to 'les
charmantes visions du Beau qui souvent encore remplissent ma tête à l'âge de fifty-two.' He
wondered whether Montesquieu would have thought his writings worthless. He sat scribbling his
reminiscences by the fire till the night drew on and the fire went out, and still he scribbled,
more and more illegibly, until at last the paper was covered with hieroglyphics undecipherable
even by M. Chuquet himself. He wandered among the ruins of ancient Rome, playing to perfection
the part of cicerone to such travellers as were lucky enough to fall in with him; and often
his stout and jovial form, with the satyric look in the sharp eyes and the compressed lips,
might be seen by the wayside in the Campagna, as he stood and jested with the reapers or the
vine-dressers or with the girls coming out, as they had come since the days of Horace, to draw
water from the fountains of Tivoli. In more cultivated society he was apt to be nervous; for
his philosophy was never proof against the terror of being laughed at. But sometimes, late
at night, when the surroundings were really sympathetic, he could be very happy among his friends.
'Un salon de huit ou dix personnes,' he said, 'dont toutes les femmes ont eu des amants, où
la conversation est gaie, anecdotique, et où l'on prend du punch léger à minuit et demie, est
l'endroit du monde où je me trouve le mieux.'

And in such a Paradise of Frenchmen we may leave Henri Beyle.

1914

LADY HESTER STANHOPE

The Pitt nose has a curious history. One can watch its transmigrations through three lives.
The tremendous hook of old Lord Chatham, under whose curve Empires came to birth, was succeeded
by the bleak upward-pointing nose of William Pitt the younger--the rigid symbol of an indomitable
hauteur. With Lady Hester Stanhope came the final stage. The nose, still with an upward tilt
in it, had lost its masculinity; the hard bones of the uncle and the grandfather had disappeared.
Lady Hester's was a nose of wild ambitions, of pride grown fantastical, a nose that scorned
the earth, shooting off, one fancies, towards some eternally eccentric heaven. It was a nose,
in fact, altogether in the air.

Noses, of course, are aristocratic things; and Lady Hester was the child of a great aristocracy.
But, in her case, the aristocratic impulse, which had carried her predecessors to glory, had
less fortunate results. There has always been a strong strain of extravagance in the governing
families of England; from time to time they throw off some peculiarly ill-balanced member,
who performs a strange meteoric course. A century earlier, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu was an
illustrious example of this tendency: that splendid comet, after filling half the heavens,
vanished suddenly into desolation and darkness. Lady Hester Stanhope's spirit was still more
uncommon; and she met with a most uncommon fate.

She was born in 1776, the eldest daughter of that extraordinary Earl Stanhope, Jacobin and
inventor, who made the first steamboat and the first calculating machine, who defended the
French Revolution in the House of Lords and erased the armorial bearings--'damned aristocratical
nonsense'--from his carriages and his plate. Her mother, Chatham's daughter and the favourite
sister of Pitt, died when she was four years old. The second Lady Stanhope, a frigid woman
of fashion, left her stepdaughters to the care of futile governesses, while 'Citizen Stanhope'
ruled the household from his laboratory with the violence of a tyrant. It was not until Lady
Hester was twenty-four that she escaped from the slavery of her father's house, by going to
live with her grandmother, Lady Chatham. On Lady Chatham's death, three years later, Pitt offered
her his protection, and she remained with him until his death in 1806.

Her three years with Pitt, passed in the very centre of splendid power, were brilliant and
exciting. She flung herself impetuously into the movement and the passion of that vigorous
society; she ruled her uncle's household with high vivacity; she was liked and courted; if
not beautiful, she was fascinating--very tall, with a very fair and clear complexion, and dark-blue
eyes, and a countenance of wonderful expressiveness. Her talk, full of the trenchant nonchalance
of those days, was both amusing and alarming: 'My dear Hester, what are you saying?' Pitt would
call out to her from across the room. She was devoted to her uncle, who warmly returned her
affection. She was devoted, too--but in a more dangerous fashion--to the intoxicating Antinous,
Lord Granville Leveson Gower. The reckless manner in which she carried on this love-affair
was the first indication of something overstrained, something wild and unaccountable, in her
temperament. Lord Granville, after flirting with her outrageously, declared that he could never
marry her, and went off on an embassy to St. Petersburg. Her distraction was extreme: she hinted
that she would follow him to Russia; she threatened, and perhaps attempted, suicide; she went
about telling everybody that he had jilted her. She was taken ill, and then there were rumours
of an accouchement, which, it was said, she took care to afficher, by appearing without rouge
and fainting on the slightest provocation. In the midst of these excursions and alarums there
was a terrible and unexpected catastrophe. Pitt died. And Lady Hester suddenly found herself
a dethroned princess, living in a small house in Montague Square on a pension of £1200 a year.

She did not abandon society, however, and the tongue of gossip continued to wag. Her immediate
marriage with a former lover, Mr. Hill, was announced: 'il est bien bon,' said Lady Bessborough.
Then it was whispered that Canning was 'le régnant'--that he was with her 'not only all day,
but almost all night.' She quarrelled with Canning and became attached to Sir John Moore. Whether
she was actually engaged to marry him--as she seems to have asserted many years later--is doubtful;
his letters to her, full as they are of respectful tenderness, hardly warrant the conclusion;
but it is certain that he died with her name on his lips. Her favourite brother, Charles, was
killed beside him; and it was natural that under this double blow she should have retired from
London. She buried herself in Wales; but not for long. In 1810 she set sail for Gibraltar with
her brother James, who was rejoining his regiment in the Peninsula. She never returned to England.

There can be no doubt that at the time of her departure the thought of a lifelong exile was
far from her mind. It was only gradually, as she moved further and further eastward, that the
prospect of life in England--at last even in Europe--grew distasteful to her; as late as 1816
she was talking of a visit to Provence. Accompanied by two or three English fellow travellers,
her English maid, Mrs. Fry, her private physician, Dr. Meryon, and a host of servants, she
progressed, slowly and in great state, through Malta and Athens, to Constantinople. She was
conveyed in battleships, and lodged with governors and ambassadors. After spending many months
in Constantinople, Lady Hester discovered that she was 'dying to see Napoleon with her own
eyes,' and attempted accordingly to obtain passports to France. The project was stopped by
Stratford Canning, the English Minister, upon which she decided to visit Egypt, and, chartering
a Greek vessel, sailed for Alexandria in the winter of 1811. Off the island of Rhodes a violent
storm sprang up; the whole party were forced to abandon the ship, and to take refuge upon a
bare rock, where they remained without food or shelter for thirty hours. Eventually, after
many severe privations, Alexandria was reached in safety; but this disastrous voyage was a
turning-point in Lady Hester's career. At Rhodes she was forced to exchange her torn and dripping
raiment for the attire of a Turkish gentleman--a dress which she never afterwards abandoned.
It was the first step in her orientalization.

She passed the next two years in a triumphal progress. Her appearance in Cairo caused the greatest
sensation, and she was received in state by the Pasha, Mehemet Ali. Her costume on this occasion
was gorgeous: she wore a turban of cashmere, a brocaded waistcoat, a priceless pelisse, and
a vast pair of purple velvet pantaloons embroidered all over in gold. She was ushered by chamberlains
with silver wands through the inner courts of the palace to a pavilion in the harem, where
the Pasha, rising to receive her, conversed with her for an hour. From Cairo she turned northwards,
visiting Jaffa, Jerusalem, Acre, and Damascus. Her travelling dress was of scarlet cloth trimmed
with gold, and, when on horseback, she wore over the whole a white-hooded and tasselled burnous.
Her maid, too, was forced, protesting, into trousers, though she absolutely refused to ride
astride. Poor Mrs. Fry had gone through various and dreadful sufferings--shipwreck and starvation,
rats and black-beetles unspeakable--but she retained her equanimity. Whatever her Ladyship
might think fit to be, she was an Englishwoman to the last, and Philippaki was Philip Parker
and Mustapha Mr. Farr.

Outside Damascus, Lady Hester was warned that the town was the most fanatical in Turkey, and
that the scandal of a woman entering it in man's clothes, unveiled, would be so great as to
be dangerous. She was begged to veil herself, and to make her entry under cover of darkness.
'I must take the bull by the horns,' she replied, and rode into the city unveiled at midday.
The population were thunderstruck; but at last their amazement gave way to enthusiasm, and
the incredible lady was hailed everywhere as Queen, crowds followed her, coffee was poured
out before her, and the whole bazaar rose as she passed. Yet she was not satisfied with her
triumphs; she would do something still more glorious and astonishing; she would plunge into
the desert and visit the ruins of Palmyra, which only half-a-dozen of the boldest travellers
had ever seen. The Pasha of Damascus offered her a military escort, but she preferred to throw
herself upon the hospitality of the Bedouin Arabs, who, overcome by her horsemanship, her powers
of sight, and her courage, enrolled her a member of their tribe. After a week's journey in
their company, she reached Palmyra, where the inhabitants met her with wild enthusiasm, and
under the Corinthian columns of Zenobia's temple crowned her head with flowers. This happened
in March 1813; it was the apogee of Lady Hester's life. Henceforward her fortunes gradually
but steadily declined.

The rumour of her exploits had spread through Syria, and from the year 1813 onwards, her reputation
was enormous. She was received everywhere as a royal, almost as a supernatural, personage:
she progressed from town to town amid official prostrations and popular rejoicings. But she
herself was in a state of hesitation and discontent. Her future was uncertain; she had grown
scornful of the West--must she return to it? The East alone was sympathetic, the East alone
was tolerable--but could she cut herself off for ever from the past? At Laodicea she was suddenly
struck down by the plague, and, after months of illness, it was borne in upon her that all
was vanity. She rented an empty monastery on the slopes of Mount Lebanon, not far from Sayda
(the ancient Sidon), and took up her abode there. Then her mind took a new surprising turn;
she dashed to Ascalon, and, with the permission of the Sultan, began excavations in a ruined
temple with the object of discovering a hidden treasure of three million pieces of gold. Having
unearthed nothing but an antique statue, which, in order to prove her disinterestedness, she
ordered her appalled doctor to break into little bits, she returned to her monastery. Finally,
in 1816, she moved to another house, further up Mount Lebanon, and near the village of Djoun;
and at Djoun she remained until her death, more than twenty years later.

Thus, almost accidentally as it seems, she came to the end of her wanderings, and the last,
long, strange, mythical period of her existence began. Certainly the situation that she had
chosen was sublime. Her house, on the top of a high bare hill among great mountains, was a
one-storied group of buildings, with many ramifying courts and out-houses, and a garden of
several acres surrounded by a rampart wall. The garden, which she herself had planted and tended
with the utmost care, commanded a glorious prospect. On every side but one the vast mountains
towered, but to the west there was an opening, through which, in the far distance, the deep
blue Mediterranean was revealed. From this romantic hermitage, her singular renown spread over
the world. European travellers who had been admitted to her presence brought back stories full
of Eastern mystery; they told of a peculiar grandeur, a marvellous prestige, an imperial power.
The precise nature of Lady Hester's empire was, indeed, dubious; she was in fact merely the
tenant of her Djoun establishment, for which she paid a rent of £20 a year. But her dominion
was not subject to such limitations. She ruled imaginatively, transcendentally; the solid glory
of Chatham had been transmuted into the phantasy of an Arabian Night. No doubt she herself
believed that she was something more than a chimerical Empress. When a French traveller was
murdered in the desert, she issued orders for the punishment of the offenders; punished they
were, and Lady Hester actually received the solemn thanks of the French Chamber. It seems probable,
however, that it was the Sultan's orders rather than Lady Hester's which produced the desired
effect. In her feud with her terrible neighbour, the Emir Beshyr, she maintained an undaunted
front. She kept the tyrant at bay; but perhaps the Emir, who, so far as physical force was
concerned, held her in the hollow of his hand, might have proceeded to extremities if he had
not received a severe admonishment from Stratford Canning at Constantinople. What is certain
is that the ignorant and superstitious populations around her feared and loved her, and that
she, reacting to her own mysterious prestige, became at last even as they. She plunged into
astrology and divination; she awaited the moment when, in accordance with prophecy, she should
enter Jerusalem side by side with the Mahdi, the Messiah; she kept two sacred horses, destined,
by sure signs, to carry her and him to their last triumph. The Orient had mastered her utterly.
She was no longer an Englishwoman, she declared; she loathed England; she would never go there
again; and if she went anywhere, it would be to Arabia, to 'her own people.'

Her expenses were immense--not only for herself but for others, for she poured out her hospitality
with a noble hand. She ran into debt, and was swindled by the moneylenders; her steward cheated
her, her servants pilfered her; her distress was at last acute. She fell into fits of terrible
depression, bursting into dreadful tears and savage cries. Her habits grew more and more eccentric.
She lay in bed all day, and sat up all night, talking unceasingly for hour upon hour to Dr.
Meryon, who alone of her English attendants remained with her, Mrs. Fry having withdrawn to
more congenial scenes long since. The doctor was a poor-spirited and muddle-headed man, but
he was a good listener; and there he sat while that extraordinary talk flowed on--talk that
scaled the heavens and ransacked the earth, talk in which memories of an abolished past--stories
of Mr. Pitt and of George III., vituperations against Mr. Canning, mimicries of the Duchess
of Devonshire--mingled phantasmagorically with doctrines of Fate and planetary influence, and
speculations on the Arabian origin of the Scottish clans, and lamentations over the wickedness
of servants; till the unaccountable figure, with its robes and its long pipe, loomed through
the tobacco-smoke like some vision of a Sibyl in a dream. She might be robbed and ruined, her
house might crumble over her head; but she talked on. She grew ill and desperate; yet still
she talked. Did she feel that the time was coming when she should talk no more?

Her melancholy deepened into a settled gloom when the news came of her brother James's death.
She had quarrelled with all her English friends, except Lord Hardwicke--with her eldest brother,
with her sister, whose kind letters she left unanswered; she was at daggers drawn with the
English consul at Alexandria, who worried her about her debts. Ill and harassed, she hardly
moved from her bedroom, while her servants rifled her belongings and reduced the house to a
condition of indescribable disorder and filth. Three dozen hungry cats ranged through the rooms,
filling the courts with frightful noises. Dr. Meryon, in the midst of it all, knew not whether
to cry or laugh. At moments the great lady regained her ancient fire; her bells pealed tumultuously
for hours together; or she leapt up, and arraigned the whole trembling household before her,
with her Arab war-mace in her hand. Her finances grew more and more involved--grew at length
irremediable. It was in vain that the faithful Lord Hardwicke pressed her to return to England
to settle her affairs. Return to England, indeed! To England, that ungrateful, miserable country,
where, so far as she could see, they had forgotten the very name of Mr. Pitt! The final blow
fell when a letter came from the English authorities threatening to cut off her pension for
the payment of her debts. Upon that, after dispatching a series of furious missives to Lord
Palmerston, to Queen Victoria, to the Duke of Wellington, she renounced the world. She commanded
Dr. Meryon to return to Europe, and he--how could he have done it?--obeyed her. Her health
was broken, she was over sixty, and, save for her vile servants, absolutely alone. She lived
for nearly a year after he left her--we know no more. She had vowed never again to pass through
the gate of her house; but did she sometimes totter to her garden--that beautiful garden which
she had created, with its roses and its fountains, its alleys and its bowers--and look westward
at the sea? The end came in June 1839. Her servants immediately possessed themselves of every
moveable object in the house. But Lady Hester cared no longer: she was lying back in her bed--inexplicable,
grand, preposterous, with her nose in the air.

1919.

MR. CREEVEY

Clio is one of the most glorious of the Muses; but, as everyone knows, she (like her sister
Melpomene) suffers from a sad defect: she is apt to be pompous. With her buskins, her robes,
and her airs of importance she is at times, indeed, almost intolerable. But fortunately the
Fates have provided a corrective. They have decreed that in her stately advances she should
be accompanied by certain apish, impish creatures, who run round her tittering, pulling long
noses, threatening to trip the good lady up, and even sometimes whisking to one side the corner
of her drapery, and revealing her undergarments in a most indecorous manner. They are the diarists
and letter-writers, the gossips and journalists of the past, the Pepyses and Horace Walpoles
and Saint-Simons, whose function it is to reveal to us the littleness underlying great events
and to remind us that history itself was once real life. Among them is Mr. Creevey. The Fates
decided that Mr. Creevey should accompany Clio, with appropriate gestures, during that part
of her progress which is measured by the thirty years preceding the accession of Victoria;
and the little wretch did his job very well.

It might almost be said that Thomas Creevey was 'born about three of the clock in the afternoon,
with a white head and something a round belly.' At any rate, we know nothing of his youth,
save that he was educated at Cambridge, and he presents himself to us in the early years of
the nineteenth century as a middle-aged man, with a character and a habit of mind already fixed
and an established position in the world. In 1803 we find him what he was to be for the rest
of his life--a member of Parliament, a familiar figure in high society, an insatiable gossip
with a rattling tongue. That he should have reached and held the place he did is a proof of
his talents, for he was a very poor man; for the greater part of his life his income was less
than £200 a year. But those were the days of patrons and jobs, pocket-boroughs and sinecures;
they were the days, too, of vigorous, bold living, torrential talk, and splendid hospitality;
and it was only natural that Mr. Creevey, penniless and immensely entertaining, should have
been put into Parliament by a Duke, and welcomed in every great Whig House in the country with
open arms. It was only natural that, spending his whole political life as an advanced Whig,
bent upon the destruction of abuses, he should have begun that life as a member for a pocket-borough
and ended it as the holder of a sinecure. For a time his poverty was relieved by his marriage
with a widow who had means of her own; but Mrs. Creevey died, her money went to her daughters
by her previous husband, and Mr. Creevey reverted to a possessionless existence--without a
house, without servants, without property of any sort--wandering from country mansion to country
mansion, from dinner-party to dinner-party, until at last in his old age, on the triumph of
the Whigs, he was rewarded with a pleasant little post which brought him in about £600 a year.
Apart from these small ups and downs of fortune, Mr. Creevey's life was static--static spiritually,
that is to say; for physically he was always on the move. His adventures were those of an observer,
not of an actor; but he was an observer so very near the centre of things that he was by no
means dispassionate; the rush of great events would whirl him round into the vortex, like a
leaf in an eddy of wind; he would rave, he would gesticulate, with the fury of a complete partisan;
and then, when the wind dropped, he would be found, like the leaf, very much where he was before.
Luckily, too, he was not merely an agitated observer, but an observer who delighted in passing
on his agitations, first with his tongue, and then--for so the Fates had decided--with his
pen. He wrote easily, spicily, and persistently; he had a favourite stepdaughter, with whom
he corresponded for years; and so it happens that we have preserved to us, side by side with
the majestic march of Clio (who, of course, paid not the slightest attention to him), Mr. Creevey's
exhilarating pas de chat.

Certainly he was not over-given to the praise of famous men. There are no great names in his
vocabulary--only nicknames: George III. is 'Old Nobs,' the Regent 'Prinney,' Wellington 'the
Beau,' Lord John Russell 'Pie and Thimble,' Brougham, with whom he was on friendly terms, is
sometimes 'Bruffam,' sometimes 'Beelzebub,' and sometimes 'Old Wickedshifts'; and Lord Durham,
who once remarked that one could 'jog along on £40,000 a year,' is 'King Jog.' The latter was
one of the great Whig potentates, and it was characteristic of Creevey that his scurrility
should have been poured out with a special gusto over his own leaders. The Tories were villains,
of course--Canning was all perfidy and 'infinite meanness,' Huskisson a mass of 'intellectual
confusion and mental dirt,' Castlereagh ... But all that was obvious and hardly worth mentioning;
what was really too exacerbating to be borne was the folly and vileness of the Whigs. 'King
Jog,' the 'Bogey,' 'Mother Cole,' and the rest of them--they were either knaves or imbeciles.
Lord Grey was an exception; but then Lord Grey, besides passing the Reform Bill, presented
Mr. Creevey with the Treasurership of the Ordnance, and in fact was altogether a most worthy man.

Another exception was the Duke of Wellington, whom, somehow or other, it was impossible not
to admire. Creevey, throughout his life, had a trick of being 'in at the death' on every important
occasion; in the House, at Brooks's, at the Pavilion, he invariably popped up at the critical
moment; and so one is not surprised to find him at Brussels during Waterloo. More than that,
he was the first English civilian to see the Duke after the battle, and his report of the conversation
is admirable; one can almost hear the 'It has been a damned serious business. Blücher and I
have lost 30,000 men. It has been a damned nice thing--the nearest run thing you ever saw in
your life,' and the 'By God! I don't think it would have done if I had not been there.' On
this occasion the Beau spoke, as was fitting, 'with the greatest gravity all the time, and
without the least approach to anything like triumph or joy.' But at other times he was jocular,
especially when 'Prinney' was the subject. 'By God! you never saw such a figure in your life
as he is. Then he speaks and swears so like old Falstaff, that damn me if I was not ashamed
to walk into the room with him.'

When, a few years later, the trial of Queen Caroline came on, it was inevitable that Creevey
should be there. He had an excellent seat in the front row, and his descriptions of 'Mrs. P.,'
as he preferred to call her Majesty, are characteristic:

     Two folding doors within a few feet of me were suddenly thrown
     open, and in entered her Majesty. To describe to you her appearance
     and manner is far beyond my powers. I had been taught to believe
     she was as much improved in looks as in dignity of manners; it is
     therefore with much pain I am obliged to observe that the nearest
     resemblance I can recollect to this much injured Princess is a toy
     which you used to call Fanny Royds (a Dutch doll). There is another
     toy of a rabbit or a cat, whose tail you squeeze under its body,
     and then out it jumps in half a minute off the ground into the air.
     The first of these toys you must suppose to represent the person of
     the Queen; the latter the manner by which she popped all at once
     into the House, made a duck at the throne, another to the Peers,
     and a concluding jump into the chair which was placed for her. Her
     dress was black figured gauze, with a good deal of trimming, lace,
     &c., her sleeves white, and perfectly episcopal; a handsome white
     veil, so thick as to make it very difficult to me, who was as near
     to her as anyone, to see her face; such a back for variety and
     inequality of ground as you never beheld; with a few straggling
     ringlets on her neck, which I flatter myself from their appearance
     were not her Majesty's own property.

Mr. Creevey, it is obvious, was not the man to be abashed by the presence of Royalty.

But such public episodes were necessarily rare, and the main stream of his life flowed rapidly,
gaily, and unobtrusively through the fat pastures of high society. Everywhere and always he
enjoyed himself extremely, but his spirits and his happiness were at their highest during his
long summer sojourns at those splendid country houses whose hospitality he chronicles with
indefatigable verve. 'This house,' he says at Raby, 'is itself by far the most magnificent
and unique in several ways that I have ever seen.... As long as I have heard of anything, I
have heard of being driven into the hall of this house in one's carriage, and being set down
by the fire. You can have no idea of the magnificent perfection with which this is accomplished.'
At Knowsley 'the new dining-room is opened; it is 53 feet by 37, and such a height that it
destroys the effect of all the other apartments.... There are two fireplaces; and the day we
dined there, there were 36 wax candles over the table, 14 on it, and ten great lamps on tall
pedestals about the room.' At Thorp Perrow 'all the living rooms are on the ground floor, one
a very handsome one about 50 feet long, with a great bow furnished with rose-coloured satin,
and the whole furniture of which cost £4000.' At Goodwood the rooms were done up in 'brightest
yellow satin,' and at Holkham the walls were covered with Genoa velvet, and there was gilding
worth a fortune on 'the roofs of all the rooms and the doors.' The fare was as sumptuous as
the furniture. Life passed amid a succession of juicy chops, gigantic sirloins, plump fowls,
pheasants stuffed with pâté de foie gras, gorgeous Madeiras, ancient Ports. Wine had a double
advantage: it made you drunk; it also made you sober: it was its own cure. On one occasion,
when Sheridan, after days of riotous living, showed signs of exhaustion, Mr. and Mrs. Creevey
pressed upon him 'five or six glasses of light French wine' with excellent effect. Then, at
midnight, when the talk began to flag and the spirits grew a little weary, what could be more
rejuvenating than to ring the bell for a broiled bone? And one never rang in vain--except,
to be sure, at King Jog's. There, while the host was guzzling, the guests starved. This was
too much for Mr. Creevey, who, finding he could get nothing for breakfast, while King Jog was
'eating his own fish as comfortably as could be,' fairly lost his temper.

     My blood beginning to boil, I said: 'Lambton, I wish you could tell
     me what quarter I am to apply to for some fish.' To which he
     replied in the most impertinent manner: 'The servant, I suppose.' I
     turned to Mills and said pretty loud: 'Now, if it was not for the
     fuss and jaw of the thing, I would leave the room and the house
     this instant'; and dwelt on the damned outrage. Mills said: 'He
     hears every word you say': to which I said: 'I hope he does.' It
     was a regular scene.

A few days later, however, Mr. Creevey was consoled by finding himself in a very different
establishment, where 'everything is of a piece--excellent and plentiful dinners, a fat service
of plate, a fat butler, a table with a barrel of oysters and a hot pheasant, &c., wheeled into
the drawing-room every night at half-past ten.'

It is difficult to remember that this was the England of the Six Acts, of Peterloo, and of
the Industrial Revolution. Mr. Creevey, indeed, could hardly be expected to remember it, for
he was utterly unconscious of the existence--of the possibility--of any mode of living other
than his own. For him, dining-rooms 50 feet long, bottles of Madeira, broiled bones, and the
brightest yellow satin were as necessary and obvious a part of the constitution of the universe
as the light of the sun and the law of gravity. Only once in his life was he seriously ruffled;
only once did a public question present itself to him as something alarming, something portentous,
something more than a personal affair. The occasion is significant. On March 16, 1825, he writes:

     I have come to the conclusion that our Ferguson is insane. He
     quite foamed at the mouth with rage in our Railway Committee in
     support of this infernal nuisance--the loco-motive Monster,
     carrying eighty tons of goods, and navigated by a tail of smoke
     and sulphur, coming thro' every man's grounds between Manchester
     and Liverpool.

His perturbation grew. He attended the committee assiduously, but in spite of his efforts it
seemed that the railway Bill would pass. The loco-motive was more than a joke. He sat every
day from 12 to 4; he led the opposition with long speeches. 'This railway,' he exclaims on
May 31, 'is the devil's own.' Next day, he is in triumph: he had killed the Monster.

     Well--this devil of a railway is strangled at last.... To-day we
     had a clear majority in committee in our favour, and the promoters
     of the Bill withdrew it, and took their leave of us.

With a sigh of relief he whisked off to Ascot, for the festivities of which he was delighted
to note that 'Prinney' had prepared 'by having 12 oz. of blood taken from him by cupping.'

Old age hardly troubled Mr. Creevey. He grew a trifle deaf, and he discovered that it was possible
to wear woollen stockings under his silk ones; but his activity, his high spirits, his popularity,
only seemed to increase. At the end of a party ladies would crowd round him. 'Oh, Mr. Creevey,
how agreeable you have been!' 'Oh, thank you, Mr. Creevey! how useful you have been!' 'Dear
Mr. Creevey, I laughed out loud last night in bed at one of your stories.' One would like to
add (rather late in the day, perhaps) one's own praises. One feels almost affectionate; a certain
sincerity, a certain immediacy in his response to stimuli, are endearing qualities; one quite
understands that it was natural, on the pretext of changing house, to send him a dozen of wine.
Above all, one wants him to go on. Why should he stop? Why should he not continue indefinitely
telling us about 'Old Salisbury' and 'Old Madagascar'? But it could not be.

It was fitting that, after fulfilling his seventy years, he should catch a glimpse of 'little
Vic' as Queen of England, laughing, eating, and showing her gums too much at the Pavilion.
But that was enough: the piece was over; the curtain had gone down; and on the new stage that
was preparing for very different characters, and with a very different style of decoration,
there would be no place for Mr. Creevey.

1919.

INDEX

Algarotti, 144, 145, 152 Anne, Queen, 106 Arnold, Matthew, 10 Arouet. See 'Voltaire'

Bailey, Mr. John, 4-7, 9-12, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 21, 22 Balzac, 220, 221, 225, 226, 227 Barrès,
M., 220, 21, 234 Beddoes, Dr. Thomas, 194-196 Beddoes, Thos. Lovell, 193-216 Beethoven, 237
Berkeley, 106 Bernhardt, 23 Bernières, Madame de, 96, 107 Bernstorff, 76 Berry, Miss, 67, 68
Beshyr, Emir, 247 Bessborough, Lady, 243 Bevan, Mr. C.D., 196 Beyle, Henri, 219-238 Blake,
36, 63, 179-190 Blücher, 255 Boileau, 62 Bolingbroke, 99, 101, 103, 104, 111 Bonaparte, 222
Boswell, 59 Boufflers, Comtesse de, 76 Boufflers, Marquise de, 75 Bourget, M., 220, 221 Brandes,
Dr., 43, 51 Brink, Mr. Ten, 43 Broome, Major, 101 Brougham, 255 Browne, Sir Thomas, 27-28 Buffon,
80, 154 Burke, 76 Butler, Bishop, 29, 106

Canning, George, 243, 247, 255 Canning, Stratford, 243, 247 Caraccioli, 76 Carlyle, 93, 137,
144, 160 Caroline, Queen, 256 Carteret, 106 Castlereagh, 255 Cellini, 68 Chasot, 152, 153 Chateaubriand,
225 Châtelet, Madame du, 113, 141-143 Chatham, Lady, 242 Chatham, Lord, 241 Chesterfield, Lord,
63 Choiseul, Duc de, 79 Choiseul, Duchesse de, 70, 85, 86 Chuquet, M., 220, 221, 223, 238 Cicero,
68 Cimarosa, 230 Claude, 17 Coleridge, 16, 30, 62, 63 Colles, Mr. Ramsay, 194, 195 Collins,
Anthony, 110, 111 Collins, Churton, 93, 98, 103 Condillac, 230 Congreve, 101 Conti, Prince
de, 96 Corneille, 80, 129 Correggio, 231 Cowley, 196 Creevey, Mr., 253-260

D'Alembert, 70, 75, 131, 162, 166 Dante, 10 d'Argens, 152 d'Argental, 72 Darget, 152 Daru,
222 Davy, Sir Humphry, 195 Deffand, Madame du, 67-89, 97 Degen, 203 d'Egmont, Madame, 72 Denham,
62 Denis, Madame, 149, 150 d'Epinay, Madame, 165, 167, 168, 169, 171-174 Descartes, 113 Desnoiresterres
93 Devonshire, Duchess of, 247 d'Houdetot, Madame, 171 Diderot, 70, 166-175 Diogenes, 115 Donne,
62 Dowden, Prof., 42, 43, 45, 49, 51 Dryden, 4, 22, 29, 62 Durham, Lord, 255

Ecklin, Dr., 203, 204 Edgeworth, Miss, 195, 196 Euler, 154, 155

Falkener, Everard, 98 Fielding, 80, 197 Flaubert, 220, 221 Fleury, Cardinal, 112 Fontenelle,
73, 222 Foulet, M. Lucien, 93, 94, 96, 98, 103, 105 Fox, Charles James, 76, 78 Frederick the
Great, 137 Fry, Mrs., 243, 244, 247 Furnivall, Dr., 42, 43

Gautier, 225 Gay, 102 George III, 247, 255 Gibbon, 29, 76, 80 Gide, M. André, 219, 220, 227
Goethe, 237 Gollancz, Sir I., 43, 49 Goncourts, De, 10 Gosse, Mr., 27-31, 35, 115, 204, 205
Gramont, Madame de, 79 Granville, Lord, 242 Gray, 60, 62 Grey, Lord, 255 Grimm, 166-174

Hardwicke, Lord, 248 Hegetschweiler, 202 Helvétius, 230 Hénault, 72, 75 Herrick, 38 Higginson,
Edward, 100 Hill, Dr. George Birkbeck, 59, 63 Hill, Mr., 243 Hugo, Victor, 62, 225 Hume, 30,
112, 114, 167, 169 Huskisson, 255

Ingres, 3

Johnson, Dr., 22, 28-30, 32, 59-63, 103, 221 Jordan, 140 Jourdain, Mr., 154

Keats, 211 Kelsall, Thomas Forbes, 200, 203, 204, 209 Klopstock, 186 Koenig, 155

La Beaumelle, 154 Lamb, Charles, 30, 188, 194 Lambton, 258 La Mettrie, 152-154, 158 Lanson,
M., 93, 100 Latimer, 31 Lecouvreur, Adrienne, 95 Lee, Sir Sidney, 43 Leibnitz, 155 Lemaître,
M., 4-6, 17, 18 Lemaur, 70 Lespinasse, Mlle. de, 70, 71, 75, 86, 238 Leveson Gower, Lord Granville,
242 Locke, 29, 110, 112, 113, 115 Louis Philippe, 222 Louis XIV., 71 Lulli, 70 Luxembourg,
Maréchale de, 77, 83

Macaulay, 137 Macdonald, Mrs. Frederika, 164-173 Maine, Duchesse du, 71, 74 Malherbe, 62 Marlborough,
Duke of, 105 Marlborough, Duchess of, 101 Marlowe, 197 Massillon, 74 Matignon, Marquis de,
84 Maupertuis, 153-156, 158, 159, 161 Mehemet Ali, 244 Mérimée, Prosper, 223 Meryon, Dr., 243,
247, 248 Middleton, 111 Milton, 10, 16, 211 Mirepoix, Bishop of, 142 Mirepoix, Maréchale de,
76 Molière, 134 Moncrif, 72 Montagu, Lady Mary Wortley, 241 Montespan, Madame de, 74 Montesquieu,
78, 107, 230, 238 Moore, Sir John, 243 Morley, Lord, 110, 167, 172 Moses, 115 Mozart, 23, 230
Musset, 225

Napoleon, 67, 230, 231, 234, 238 Necker, 84 Nelson, 221 Newton, Sir Isaac, 100, 106, 112, 113

Pascal, 36, 112 Pater, 31 Peterborough, Lord, 102, 103 Pitt, William, the younger, 241-243,
247 Plato, 185 Pöllnitz, 152 Pompadour, Madame de, 143 Pont-de-Veyle, 72, 75 Pope, 4, 22, 34,
38, 103, 106, 211 Prie, Madame de, 71, 94, 96 Prior, 63 Proctor, Bryan Waller, 200, 203 Puffendorf,
76

Quinault, 70

Racine, 3-24, 80, 129-131, 225, 237 Raleigh, Sir Walter, 45, 179, 183, 185 Regent, the Prince,
255 Reni, Guido, 231 Reynolds, Sir Joshua, 30, 186, 188 Richardson, 80 Richelieu, 73 Rohan-Chabot,
Chevalier de, 94, 96, 98 Rossetti, 183 Rousseau, 85, 165-175, 230 Rubens, 34 Russell, Lord
John, 255

Sainte-Beuve, 10, 12, 18, 61, 167, 220 Saint-Lambert, 172 Saint-Simon, 80, 179-183 Sampson,
Mr. John, 179-183 Sanadon, Mlle., 84 Shaftesbury, 110 Shakespeare, 3, 4, 14, 34, 41-56, 80,
112, 132, 221, 225 Shelley, 23, 38 Sheridan, 257 Sophocles, 132 Spenser, 211 Stanhope, Lady
Hester, 241-249 'Stendhal.' See Beyle, Henri Stephen, Sir James, 211 Sully, Duc de, 95, 105
Swift, 29, 101, 104, 106 Swinburne, 184

Taine, 220, 221 Thévenart, 70 Thomson, 63 Tindal, 111 Toland, 110, 111 Tolstoi, 228 Toynbee,
Mrs. Paget, 67-69, 75 Turgot, 70, 169

Velasquez, 34 Vigny, 225 Virgil, 14, 23 Voltaire, 69, 70, 72, 75, 79-81, 83, 93-117, 121-134,
137-162, 174, 188

Walpole, Horace, 30, 63, 67, 68, 69-71, 75, 76, 78-80, 86-89, 103, 104, 106 Webster, 36 Wellington,
Duke of, 255 White, W.A., 180 Winckelmann, 237 Wolf, 138 Wollaston, 111 Woolston, 111 Wordsworth,
16, 62, 63, 184 Würtemberg, Duke of, 156

Yonge, Miss, 134 Young, Dr., 101

Zola, 220, 227, 228