It is no part of Clarendon's biography to linger over the revolting details of that disgraceful
time. Even in Clarendon's day, the King had lamentably failed to maintain his dignity or to
discharge his task. His life now outraged all decency, and his Court fell below the standard
of the common bagnio. His prime favourite and his chief Minister was Buckingham, stained by
every crime, at once coward and bully, haughty in his arrogant insolence, and yet stooping
to intrigues that would have disgraced the veriest rogue from the hulks. In the course of what
seems to have been rather a riotous brawl, than an honourable duel--a brawl in which seconds
as well as principals took part, and in which more than one life was lost--the King's First
Minister killed Lord Shrewsbury, the husband of his paramour. The town was filled with the
scandal, but by the personal influence of the King, it was withdrawn from the courts of law.
Buckhurst and Sedley, the chosen associates of the King in his notorious bouts of drunken debauchery,
roused disgust by a freak of sickening lewdness; the only result was the committal to prison,
by the order of the Lord Chief Justice, and at the behest of the King, of the constable who
interfered with the indecent escapade. We have a proof of the change that had come since Clarendon's
controlling hand had gone, when we remember that some three years before, the same Buckhurst,
for a similar outbreak of indecency, was rated in terms of scornful rebuke by the King's Bench
Judges, and was bound over to good behaviour by a bond of £5000. The King's harem was augmented
by a flower-girl, who had attracted attention on the stage, and was the discarded mistress
of two of the King's associates. Clarendon lamented what he had seen, as a sad lapse from dignity,
a grievous fall from the ideals that he had hoped for. What followed was nothing but a carnival
of mad obscenity. Samuel Pepys was no squeamish critic; but even he was moved to some earnestness
of indignation at the foul orgies in which Charles and his new associates indulged, in shameless
publicity. As was natural, such advisers were no careful guardians of Parliamentary or popular
liberty. What attention could be spared from debauchery was given to degrading compacts by
which the King was to be the submissive pensioner of Louis; to plans for thwarting the prerogative
of Parliament; to secret intrigues for subverting the Protestant religion. If the cost to England
of his fall was to be measured by the depth of dishonour, and the flagrantly treasonable plots,
of those who followed him, Clarendon was triumphantly vindicated, and his wrongs were amply
avenged.

In spite of the cordiality of his reception, Clarendon did not find Avignon a desirable residence
in the heat of summer. The streets had an ill savour "by the multitude of dyers and of silk
manufactures, and the worse smell of the Jews," and he presently moved on to Montpelier, where
he made a lengthened stay. His reception was as courteous as before, and this he ascribed to
the good offices of Lord and Lady Mordaunt, old friends whom he recommends to the good offices
of his children. "When any English came thither," he tells us, "none forbore to pay respect
to the Chancellor"; and, with a certain pride, he records how Sir Richard Temple's refusal
to visit Clarendon caused "a general aversion towards him," so that he was compelled to quit
the town, where "he left behind him the reputation of a very vain, humorous, and sordid person."
The good Chancellor was not above the human capacity of a very cordial hatred, or the inclination
to feel piqued at a failure of kindly courtesy.

He was now at ease, and in peace of mind. His health, although undermined by long and painful
illness, was sufficiently restored to enable him to indulge his old habits of intellectual
activity. "It pleased God in a short time, after some recollections, and upon his entire confidence
in Him, to restore him to that serenity of mind, and resignation of himself to the disposal
and good pleasure of God, that they who conversed most with him could not discover the least
murmur of impatience in him, or any unevenness in his conversations." Clarendon is none the
less lovable, because a good conscience preserved for him his old self-complacency. His studies
were again renewed. He made himself master of the French language so far as the reading of
its literature was concerned. The power of speaking the language he, like many another, found
"many inconveniences in." He made a competent progress also in Italian.

But his chief work was the preparation of his defences against the seventeen clauses of the
charges formulated against him in the Commons. These were so extravagant that his accusers
never sought to make them the foundation of an indictment, and he had little difficulty in
showing their baselessness, and how much they contradicted the clearest features of his policy,
and the most notorious evidence as to his acts. The Vindication carefully avoided anything
that reflected on the King, and he left it to his children, to whom it was conveyed by Lord
and Lady Mordaunt, to choose their own time for making it public. He was careful not to prejudice
that position at Court which they still owed to Charles's sense of justice.

His serenity was disturbed only by two lingering apprehensions. The first was the insufficiency
of his means to maintain the establishment which his crippled health rendered necessary. For
that he could only trust the affection and piety of his children, who, he doubted not, would
do their best to transmit to him, from their estates or his own, enough to secure the decencies
of life in a foreign land. The other more serious apprehension was the fear that the machination
of his enemies might still have power to prejudice the French Court against him. He saw enough
to know that that Court still viewed his presence on French soil with some nervousness. He
could only soothe his anxieties by his trust in Providence, and by the company of his books.
"God blessed him very much in this composure and retreat."

He did not spare himself in his reflections on what had been amiss in his own conduct. "There
was nothing of which he was so ashamed, as he was of the vast expense he had made in the building
of his house." He could only excuse, but not justify it. This is an old topic of accusation,
to which we have already alluded, but we may revert to it once again. Since the Restoration,
Clarendon had commanded little leisure to find a suitable house, and had moved frequently from
one to another. At first he had resided at Dorset House, in Fleet Street, once occupied by
Bacon, and formerly the town house of the Bishop of Salisbury. From there he went to Worcester
House, [Footnote: The residence of the Marquis of Worcester (previously Lord Glamorgan), and
used by Cromwell during the Commonwealth] for which he paid the large rent of £500 a year.
After the Fire, he moved to Berkshire House, in St. James (on the site of the present Bridgewater
House), which became known as Cleveland House when adopted as the residence of Lady Castlemaine,
then Duchess of Cleveland, in 1668. York House, Twickenham, was assigned to him after the marriage
of his daughter to the Duke of York, and there the Princess, afterwards Queen Anne, was born.
It was only after many changes that he ventured, in the full tide of his prosperity, and with
the encouragement of the King, to provide a house of his own; but his ignorance of architecture--and
probably also his absorption in weightier affairs--made him the victim of the architect, [Footnote:
The architect was Pratt. The house was built during Clarendon's absence from London in the
Plague year, when Parliament sat at Oxford.] who estimated the cost at less than one-third
of what it came to, which was £50,000. He found himself not only involved in debt, but the
mark of envious scandal for the pride and ostentation of his dwelling. A lingering hope remained
that he might still live there, in all the pride of a restored good name. A weakness so confessed
may readily be forgiven. The harm it did was only to his own estate. [Footnote: Evelyn, as
we have seen (ante, p. 254) had praised the house more guardedly than Pepys, but in a letter
to Lord Cornbury (Jan. 20, 1665/6) he speaks of it with perhaps courteous excess of admiration.
"Let me speak ingenuously," he says: "I went with prejudice, and a critical spirit, incident
to those who fancy they know anything in art. I acknowledge to your Lordship that I have never
seen a nobler pile.... It is, without hyperbolies, the best contrived, the most useful, graceful,
and magnificent house in England." He enters into the details of the building, and concludes
thus: "May that great and illustrious person, whose large and ample heart has honoured his
country with so glorious a structure, and by an example worthy of himself, showed our nobility
how they ought indeed to build, and value their qualities, live many long years to enjoy it;
and when he shall be passed to that upper building, not made with hands, may his posterity
(as you, my lord) inherit his goodness, this palace, and all other circumstances of his grandeur,
to consummate their felicity."

Evelyn may best be allowed to tell of the passing of Clarendon's architectural glory. It is
in the Diary for September 18, 1683.

"After dinner I walked to survey the sad demolition of Clarendon House, that costly and only
sumptuous palace of the late Lord Chancellor Hyde, where I have often been so cheerful with
him, and sometimes so sad; happening to make him a visit but the day before he fled from the
angry Parliament, accusing him of maladministration, and being envious at his grandeur, who,
from a private lawyer, came to be father-in-law to the Duke of York, and, as some would suggest,
designing his Majesty's marriage with the Infanta of Portugal, not apt to breed; to this they
imputed much of our unhappiness, and that he being sole Minister and favourite at his Majesty's
restoration, neglected to gratify the King's suffering party, preferring those who were the
cause of our troubles. But perhaps as many of those things were injuriously laid to his charge,
so he kept the Government far steadier than it has since proved. I could name some who, I think,
contributed greatly to his ruin, the buffoons and the misses, to whom he was an eye-sore. 'Tis
true he was of a jolly temper after the old English fashion; but France had now the ascendant,
and we were become quite another nation. The Chancellor gone, and dying in exile, the Earl
his successor sold that which cost £50,000 building to the young Duke of Albemarle for £25,000,
to pay debts which how contracted remains yet a mystery, his son being no way a prodigal....
However it were, this stately palace is decreed to ruin, to support the prodigious waste the
Duke of Albemarle had made of his estate since the old man died. He sold it to the highest
bidder, and it fell to certain rich bankers and mechanics, who gave for it and the ground about
it £35,000; they design a new town as it were, and a most magnificent piazza.... See the vicissitudes
of earthly things!"

In June of the following year Evelyn found streets and buildings--Bond Street and Albemarle
Street--encroaching on the beauty of the site. The fall of Clarendon House had tempted Lady
Berkeley to turn her gardens into squares, and she actually realized the then amazing amount
of £1000 a year "in mere ground rents"! "To such a mad intemperance has this age come of building
about a city by far too disproportionate already to the nation." If Evelyn's ghost still haunts
the scene, what are its reflections now?]

At the date of his banishment, Clarendon was not an old man, as age is generally reckoned.
He had not yet reached the age of sixty years, which finds many men in possession of their
full powers. But ill health, anxiety, long years of hardship and incessant labour, had combined
to make him prematurely old. For a time, indeed, it seemed as if he could only survive his
fall by a few weeks or months, and as if his work were to finish when he left his country for
the last time. But his indomitable energy, and the brave spirit that sustained him, brought
back first a tolerable measure of good health; then serenity of mind; and, lastly, that industry
which opened to him, in the reading and in the making of books, a new world from which all
the sordid pettiness, and the infinite annoyances, of the political arena were banished. There
is but little more to tell of that strenuous life, which had seen so much of storm and tempest,
varied by gleams of sunshine, and, above all, illuminated by an imagination so rich, and by
an historic sense so gorgeous and so inspiring to a man whose life was spent in making history.
From what his pen has left us, from that incomparable history where the scenes in which he
had played so great a part, and the actors amongst whom he had moved, are portrayed with such
dramatic force, we can easily picture to ourselves how vivid were Clarendon's memories, and
how richly the days of his retirement were peopled with the thoughts of what had been. The
respect paid to him, the homage accorded to his great achievements and his great name, were
not merely soothing to his personal vanity--they served to bring him closer to those historic
scenes in which he had moved. He had still the invaluable treasures of industry and hope. He
could still add to that which he would leave to his world; he could still hope that he might
see his country, and be honoured as of old by his countrymen. We must accept Clarendon as nature
made him. For him life was a large stage, on which he must act his part with dignity. Like
Ulysses, he "was a part of all that he had known"; he could not rest from effort; if he could
not act great deeds, he could still wield his pen in stately eloquence.

It was, he tells, the third of the retreats from a life of trouble and vexation, which Heaven
had granted him, and which he reckoned amongst his choicest blessings. After the storms of
the Civil War, he had one such retreat at Jersey, when the Prince had, much against his advice,
left for France. In that first retreat he had gained much. He learned to know himself better,
and other men more truly. His youth had been engaged in company and conversation, and in the
full tide of early success at the bar, followed by absorption in the turmoil of politics, he
had moved on the quick current, and had not had leisure for contemplation, or for studying
the ways of men. His early life had been one "of ease and pleasure and too much idleness";
it was only the instinct of association with men whom he could respect, that preserved him
from "any notable scandal," and made him live, as he naively tells us, at least "caute, if
not caste." Too much idleness he had exchanged for too much business. The retreat at Jersey
had come just when it was well "to compose those affections and allay those passions, which,
in the warmth of perpetual actions, and chafed by continual contradictions, had need of rest,
and cool and deliberate cogitations." He learned "how blind a surveyor he had been of the inclinations
and affections of the heart of man," and how warily he must walk who would avoid the pitfalls
of human intercourse.

