PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 99.

October 18, 1890.

HOW IT'S DONE.

A HANDBOOK TO HONESTY.

NO. 11.--THE STRAIGHT "TIP."

    SCENE--Sanctum of "Large Wholesale House." Present, one
    of the Principals, a pompous personage, with imposing
    watch-chain, and abundant space for it to meander over, and
    a sleekly subservient "Head of Department." Principal looks
    irritated, Head of Department apprehensive, the former
    angrily shuffling some papers, the latter nervously "washing
    his hands with invisible soap, in imperceptible water."

Principal. Well, Mr.--er--er--SCROOP, we--er--my partners and self, are not quite satisfied
with the way in which things are going in--er--in your department.

Head of Department. Indeed, Sir. Sorry to hear that, Sir. May I ask, Sir, in--er--in what particular
I have--er--failed to give complete satisfaction. (Aside.) On the screw again, the old skinflint--I
know him.

Principal. Well, in point of fact, the profits on your branch have lately been very--have seemed--er--have
been by no means--what we could wish, Mr. SCROOP, what we could wish, Sir.

H. of D. Really, Sir, I--ah, am grieved to hear it, for, upon my word, I hardly know--

Principal (abruptly). There must be cutting down somewhere--I say somewhere, Mr. SCROOP--where,
I must leave to you. By the way, it seems to me that PUDDICOMBE's prices are a bit high for
a beginner in the trade as he is. I think his "lines" ought to run a little lower--eh?

H. of D. Well, Sir, I've suggested it to him myself, but he protested there was hardly a margin
left. However, since you name it, Sir, I'll see what I can do with him. (Aside.) Ruthless old
grinder, that's his game, is it? Wants a few "extra" pounds to play with, and means squeezing
them out of PUDDICOMBE. Poor PUDDICOMBE, I've already put the screw on him pretty tightly.
However, I must give it another turn, I suppose.

    SCENE II.--Head of Department and PUDDICOMBE, a
    hard-working, struggling manufacturer, who has schemed and
    screwed for years to keep in with the Big House.

Puddicombe. Upon my word, Mr. SCROOP, I can't--I really can't, knock off another quarter per
cent. It's a tight fight already, and I can't do it.

H. of D. (airily). All right, PUDDICOMBE my boy,--as you please. Plenty who will, you know.

Puddicombe. Really, Mr. SCROOP, I don't see how they can--

H. of D. (rudely). That's their business. I only know they will, and jump at it.

Puddicombe (hesitatingly). But--er--I thought, when I made that little arrangement with you,
a year ago, about the trifling bonus to you, you know, I thought you as good as promised--

H. of D. (severely). Mr. PUDDICOMBE, you surprise me. I am here, Sir, to do the best I can
for the Firm--and I shall do it. If somebody else's prices are better than yours, somebody
else gets the line, that's all. Good day, Mr. PUDDICOMBE. (Aside.) Confound his impudence!--he
shan't have another order if I can help it! Trifling bonus, indeed! One thing, he daren't split--so
I'm safe.

    [Exit PUDDICOMBE, despondently. Enter, presently, a
    hopeful-looking person, with a sample-bag.

H. of D. (cheerily). Ah, Mr. PINCHER, how do--how do? Haven't seen you for an age.

Mr. Pincher. Good day, Mr. SCROOP. I heard you wanted to see me, and, as I've a very cheap
line in your way, I thought, as I was passing, I'd venture to look in.

H. of D. Quite right, PINCHER. What's the figure, my boy?

Pincher (slily). A shade lower than the lowest you've been giving. Is that good enough?

H. of D. Well--ahem!--yes--of course, if the quality is right.

Pincher. O.K., I assure you, Sir!

H. of D. Well, we're quoted as low as forty-five. If you can beat that, I think I can place
the order with you.

Pincher (aside). Liar! Even poor PUDDICOMBE wouldn't go under fifty. However, here goes! (Aloud.)
Will five off meet your views?

H. of D. Say seven and a half, and I'm on.

Pincher. Done with you, Sir. (Aside.) With what he'll want for himself, there's "nothing in
it!"--this time.

H. of D. Well--subject, of course, to our Principal's approval, I think I may say the line
is yours, PINCHER. (Aside.) Don't know how the doose he does it! Well, that's none o' my business.
Won't old SKINFLINT be pleased? Must try and spring him for a holiday, on the strength of it.

Pincher. Thanks--many thanks. (Books it.) Hope we shall do more business together,--to our
mutual advantage. By the way, Mr. SCROOP--(in a low voice)--if there is any little thing I
can put in your way, you know, I, er--er!--

H. of D. Oh, don't mention it, PINCHER. Give me a look up on Tuesday evening, at home. You
know my little place at Peckham. My good lady'll give you a little music.

Pincher. Ah, I've a good deal of influence in that line. Now, if there's anything Mrs. SCROOP
might fancy--I know "perks" are not in your line, but the ladies, my boy, the ladies!

H. of D. (laughing). You will have your joke, PINCHER. Well, oddly enough, the Missis was only
saying last night she wanted a new piano--one of BROADWOOD's grands, for choice--and if you--

Pincher (mysteriously). Leave it to me, my dear Sir, leave it to me. If Mrs. SCROOP isn't satisfied
by this day week, why--never give me another line. Ha! ha! Good day, Mr. SCROOP!

    [Exit, chuckling.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT'S RETURN TO THE CITY.

I've bin jolly cumferal lately at the Grand Hotel, as ewerybody in fac seems to be, for they
cums in a smilin with hope, and gos away smilin with satisfacshun, and with the thorow conwicshun
of soom cumming again, and sum on 'em says to me, says they, "Oh rewor! Mr. ROBERT!" and others
says, "Oh Plezzeer! Mr. ROBERT!" which both means, as my yung French frend tells me, "Here's
to our nex merry meeting!" but that sounds more like a parting Toast with a bumper of good
old Port to drink it in, but I dezzay as he's right. But larst week I receeves a most prumptery
order from the LORD MARE, "to cum back to the City, if it were ony for a week." So in coarse
back I cums, and a grand sort of a week we has all had on it! I shall fust begin with a reglar
staggerer of a dinner at the Manshun House on Munday, given, as I was told, to all the Horthers
and Hartists of Urope, who had jest bin a holding of a Meeting to let ewerybody kno as how
as they ment for to have their rites in their hone ritings and picters, or they woodn't rite
no more, nor paint no more!

My prefound estonishment may be more heasily described than conseeved when I says as they was
amost all Forreners of warious countries! so that when I handed anythink werry speshal to sum
on 'em they would shake their heds and say, "No mercy!" or "Nine darnker!" as the case mite be.

Well, so much for Monday. On Toosday I spent nearly the hole day at Gildhall in surveyin, and
criticisin, hay, and in one case, acshally tasting the wundrus collecshun of all kinds and
condishuns of Frute that the hole Country can perduce, that had been colleckted there! I wunders
how many of the tens of thousands who came to Gildhall to see the temting sight, can say the
same. But ewery wise perducer of heatables or drinkables allus tries to captiwate the good
opinyon of a Hed Waiter. The hidear jest ocurs to my mind to ask at about what part of the
next Sentry the County Counsil will be a dewoting of their time and money to a similar usefool
purpuss! And hecco answers, Wen! The uniwersal werdick of heverybody as was there agreed in
saying, that nothink like it in buty, and wariety, and size, wasn't never seen nowheres before.
And then came the werry natural enquiry, what on airth's a going to be done with it all? And
then came the equally nateral answer, "The Fruiterers' Company is a going to send all the werry
best of it to the LORD MARE?" And then, "Hey, Presto!" as the cunjurer says, and on Wensday
evening there it was on the table at another Grand Bankwet at the Manshun House, and quite
a number of the Fruiterers' Company a sitting a smiling at the LORD MARE's horspitable table,
and the werry head on 'em all, Sir JAMES WHITEHEAD, giving the distingwished compny sitch a
delightful acount of what they had bin and gone and done, and was a going to do, as made ewerybody
rejoice to think that we had such a nobel Company as the Fruiterers' Company, and such a prince
of Masters to govern 'em. And I feels bound in honor to say, that the black grapes was about
the werry finest as ewer I ewer tasted. ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SHIELD AND THE SHADOW.

    ["Before the 'silent millions' who make up the rank and file
    of Hindoos discard the cruelties of their marriage system,
    their opinions, prejudices, and habits of thought must change.
    Nothing is more certain than that they will change slowly; but
    we hold to the belief that judicious legislation will hasten
    the process more powerfully than anything else."--The "Times"
    on Child-Marriage and Enforced Widowhood in India.]

  Yes, compassion is due to thee, India's young daughter;
    The sound of thy sorrow, thy plaint of despair
  Have reached English ears o'er the wide westward water,
    And sympathy stirred, seldom slumbering there.

  Child-Wife, or Child-Widow, in agony kneeling
    And clasping the skirts of the armed Island Queen,
  Her heart is not cold to thine urgent appealing;
    Considerate care in her glances is seen.

  Not hot as the urgings of zealotry heady
    The action of her who's protectrice and guide.
  Her stroke must be measured, her sympathy steady,
    Whose burden's as great as her power is wide.

  She stands, Ægis-armed, looked forth calm, reflective,
    Across the wide stretches of old Hindostan.
  The plains now subdued to her power protective,
    Saw politic AKBAR and sage SHAH JEHAN.

  If AKBAR was pitiful, Islam's great sworder,
    Shall she of the Ægis be less so than he?
  The marriage of widows he sanctioned, his order
    Three centuries since laid the ban on Suttee.

  And she, his successor, has rescued already
    The widow from fire, and the child from the flood;
  For mercy's her impulse, her policy steady
    Opposes the creed-thralls whose chrism is blood.

  And now the appeal of the Child-Widow reaches
    The ears ever open to misery's plaint.
  She thinks--for the sway of long centuries teaches
    That zeal should not hasten, and patience not faint.

  The child kneeling there at her skirts is the creature
    Of tyrannous ages of creed and of caste;
  She bears, helpless prey of the priest, on each feature.
    The pitiful brand of a pitiless past.

  Long-wrought, closely knit, subtly swaying, deep-rooted,
    The system whose shadow is over the child;
  By grey superstition debased and imbruted,
    By craft's callous cruelty deeply defiled.

  But long-swaying custom hath far-reaching issues,
    The hand that assails it doth ill to show haste.
  The knife that would search poor humanity's tissues,
    Hath healing for object, not ravage or waste.

  Not coldness, but coolness, sound policy pleads for,
    But, subject to that, human sympathies yearn
  To aid the child-victim the woman's heart bleeds for,
    For whom a man's breast with compassion must burn.

  Poor child! The dark shadow that closely pursues her
    Means menacing Terror; she sues for a shield,
  And how shall the strong Ægis-bearer refuse her?
    The bondage of caste to calm justice must yield.

  We dare not be deaf to the voice of the pleader
    For freedom and purity, nature and right;
  Let Wisdom, high-throned as controller and leader,
    Meet cruelty's steel with the shield of calm might!

       *       *       *       *       *

MY MOTHER BIDS ME DYE MY HAIR.

    [Auburn is said to be the present fashionable colour in hair.]

  My Mother bids me dye my hair
    A lovely auburn hue,
  She says I ought to be aware
    It's quite the thing to do.

  "Why sit," she cries, "without a smile,
    Whilst others dance instead?"
  Alas! no partners ask me while
    My tresses are not red.

  When no one else at all is near,
    And I am quite alone,
  I sadly shed a bitter tear
    To think the Season's gone.

  But when the time again draws nigh,
    The time when maidens wed,
  I'm quite resolved to "do and dye"--
    My tresses shall be red!

I don't exactly know how I got mixed up with it, but I found myself somehow "fixed," as our
American cousins would say, to join a party who were going to see Old JEPHSON (the Q.C.), who
had broken "down," or broken "up," or had gone through some mental and physical smashing process
or other, that necessitated an immediate recourse to mountain air,--to where he could get it
of the right sort and quality with as little strain or tax on his somewhat shattered nerves
as might be compatible with a dash into the heart of Switzerland at the fag-end of the swarming
tourists' season. "Murren will be too high for him: distinctly too high for him," thoughtfully
observed the distinguished specialist who had been called in, and had at once prescribed the
"air tonic" in question; "and the Burgenstock would be too low. His condition requires an elevation
of about 3500 feet. Let me see. Ha! Engelberg is the place for him. My dear lady," he continued,
addressing Mrs. JEPHSON, who had already imbibed the theory that every altitude, from Primrose
Hill to Mont Blanc, suited its special ailment, the only thing necessary being to hit on the
right one, "My dear lady, get your good husband to Engelberg at once. Write to HERR CATTANI,
Hotel Titlis, Engelberg, Unterwalden, asking what day he can receive you (use my name), and
then, as soon as you can possibly get off, start. I can promise you it will do wonders for
our patient."

So, in about five days, we found ourselves, a party of six (including young JERRYMAN, who said
that, though he saw no difference between Lucerne and Bayswater, except that Bayswater was
a "howling site bigger," he would come, "if only for the lark of seeing the dilapidated old
boy" (his way of referring to his invalid Q.C. Uncle) "shovelled about the Bernese Oberland
like a seedy Guy Faux,") crossing the silver streak on that valued, steady-going, and excellently
well-found Channel friend, the Calais-Douvres. Of course we made a fresh friend for life on
board--one always does. We counted up fifty-seven fresh friends for life we had made, one way
and another, on our way, before we got home again. This was a Dr. MELCHISIDEC, who at once
yielded his folding-chair to the Dilapidated One, and, finding himself bound also for Engelberg,
attached himself as a sort of General-Director and Personal Conductor to our party. "Had we
got our tickets through COOK, and asked him to secure our places in the train?" he inquired.
"We had." "Ha! then it would be all right." And it was. On our arriving at Calais, no crush,
or excitement, and fighting for places. We were met by three courteous, military-looking officials,
who talked four languages between them, and ushered us to our "reserved" places. Royalty could
not have fared better. "You're all right with COOK," observed Dr. MELCHISIDEC. "He's got a
man everywhere; and, if there's any hitch, you've only got to call him in. A clear case of
too many Cooks not spoiling the broth." And so we found it. I had always hitherto considered
Cook's Excursionists as rather a comic institution, and as something to be laughed at. Nothing
of the sort. "Blessed be COOK!" say I. All I know is, that we found his name a perfect tower
of strength along the entire route we traversed.

And now we were whirling along towards Basle in the rather stuffy splendours provided for us
by the Compagnie Internationale des Wagons Lits, that reminded one, as much as anything of
being fixed into one's allotted place in a sort of gigantic Gladstone Bag--an illusion assisted,
no doubt, by the prominence of a deal of silver-plated fittings, in the shape of knobs and
door-handles, all somewhat tarnished and dusty. True, the compartment, which gave on to a corridor
running the whole length of the carriage, was provided with a table, an inkstand, a large pan
for cigar-ash, and a colossal spittoon; but as one had no immediate need of any of these things,
and they filled up the already sufficiently limited space, one was strongly disposed, but for
the presence of the military official of the Wagons Lits who paced the corridor before alluded
to, to pitch them all out of the window then and there. But it was drawing on towards seven
o'clock, and the question of feeding naturally came to the fore. How was the Dilapidated One
to get his meal at Tergnier, the place where the military official informed us we should find
"an excellent repast, 'ot, and ready, with plenty of time to dispose of 'im with every facility,"
waiting for us.

Young JERRYMAN suggested the luncheon-basket, which he saw an American get through the other
day, containing two pork sandwiches, nine inches long; half a fowl, a couple of rolls, three
peaches, a bunch of grapes, a jam-tart, and a bottle of wine; but Dr. MELCHISIDEC put his veto
on this, and, looking at the Dilapidated One critically, as if he was wondering how much he
weighed, if it came to carrying him, came in with a judicial "No! no! I think we can manage
to get him to the Buffet," which settled the matter; and with the announcement that we had
all of us "vingt-trois minutes d'arrêt," we found ourselves stepping across the growing dusk
of the platform, into the cheerful and brightly-lighted Station Restaurant, where a capital
and comfortable meal, excellently served, was awaiting us. And, O ye shades of Rugby, Swindon,
Crewe, Grantham, and I know not what other British Railway feeding centres, at which I have
been harassed, scalded, and finally hurried away unfed, would that you could take a lesson
from the admirable management, consideration for the digestion of the hungry passengers, and
general all-round thoughtfulness that characterises the taking of that meal "de voyage" at
Tergnier.

To begin with, you have about finished your soup, when a station official appears at the door
and informs all the feeding passengers in an assuring and encouraging voice that they have
"encore dix-huit minutes"--as much as to say, "Pray, my dear Monsieur, or Madame, as the case
may be, do not hurry over that capital portion of boeuf braisé à l'Impériale, but enjoy its
full flavour at your perfect leisure. There is not, pray believe me, the remotest occasion
for any excitement or hurry." A little later on, in your repast, when you are just, perhaps,
beginning to wonder whether you oughtn't to be thinking about returning to the train, the good
fairy official again appears at the door, this time announcing that you have "encore douze
minutes" in the same encouraging tones, that seem to say, "Now, I beg you will quite finish
that excellent 'poulet' and 'salade.' Believe me, you have ample time. Trust to me. I charge
myself with the responsibility of seeing that you catch your train calmly and comfortably;"
which he certainly does, looking in again as Madame comes round, and you pay her her modest
demand of three francs fifty for her excellently-cooked and well-served repast (vin compris),
with the final announcement of, "Maintenant en voiture, Mesdames et Messieurs," that find you
comfortably seated in your place again, with three minutes to spare before the departure of
the train. But perhaps the best testimony to the excellence of the management may be found
in the fact that the Dilapidated One was not only got out, but well fed, and put back in his
place, with a whole minute to spare, without any excitement, or more than the usual expenditure
of nerve-force required for the undertaking.

"I will, when Monsieur desires it, make up the bed for 'im," volunteers the military officer,
towards eleven o'clock; and, as there isn't much going on, we say, "All right--we'll have it
now;" and we disport ourselves in the corridor, while he works a sort of transformation in
our Gladstone Bag compartment, which seems greatly to diminish its "containing" capacity. Indeed,
if it were not for the floor, the ceiling, and the walls, one would hardly know where to stow
one's packages. Le train de Luxe I know has come in, of late, for some abuse, and some grumblers
have made a dead set at it. I don't know what their experience of a lit de luxe may have been,
but, if it was anything like mine, they must have experienced a general feeling of wanting
about a foot more room every way, coupled with a strong and morbid inclination to kick off
roof, sides, back, and, in fact, everything, so as, somehow, to secure it.

However, the night passed, the unceasing rattle of the train being occasionally changed for
the momentary dead stillness, when it stopped, as it did now and then, at some small place
on the way, for apparently no better reason than that of pulling the station-master out of
bed to report it. Practically I was undisturbed, except at, I think, a place called Delle,
where, in the very small hours of the morning, a gentleman opened the door of my bedroom de
Luxe, and asked me in a voice, in which melancholy and sleep seemed to be struggling for the
mastery, whether "I had any declaration I wished to make to the Swiss Douanes," and on my assuring
him that I had "none whatever," he sadly and silently withdrew.

Nothing further till Basle, where we halted at 6 A.M. for breakfast and a change of trains,
and where I was much impressed with the carrying power of the local porter, whom I met loaded
with the Dilapidated One's effects, apparently surprised that that "was all" he was expected
to take charge of. Lucerne in a blaze of stifling heat, with struggling Yankee and British
tourists being turned away from the doors of all the hotels, so we were glad to get our telegram
from Herr CATTANI announcing that he was able to offer us rooms that he had "disponible;" and
at 3 P.M. we commenced our carriage-drive to Engelberg. Towards five we quitted the plain and
began the ascent.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

A promising series, so far, is this re-issue by Messrs. CHATTO AND WINDUS of "The Barber's
Chair, Etc.," by DOUGLAS JERROLD; "Gulliver's Travels, by DEAN SWIFT, Etc.;" and SHERIDAN's
Plays. "Etc.," in both the first-mentioned books, forms a considerable portion of each volume.
"Etc.," in the first includes the Hedgehog Letters, which are very Jerroldian; and in the second
it means the immortal Tale of a Tub, the Battle of the Books, and a fragment from the Dean's
correspondence.

The Baron begs to return thanks for an odd volume, one of privately printed opuscula of "The
Sette of Odd Volumes," which has been presented to him by the Author, Mr. WALTER HAMILTON,
F.R.G.S., and F.R.H.S., who has the honour of filling the important post of "Parodist" in the
above-mentioned society or "Sette." This little odd volume epitomises the Drama of England
within the last three centuries in most interesting fashion, without losing a single important
point. Why it should have fallen to the lot of the "Parodist to the Sette" to do this, is only
explained by the Sette being made up of Odd, very odd, Volumes. What are their rules? Do they
go "odd man out" to decide who shall pay for the banquet? Must they dine in the daytime, because,
being an odd lot, they cannot sit down to dinner at eventide?

A list of the Odd members is given in the little book; but who cares what, or who, the Odds
are, as long as they each and all are happy? 'Tis a pity that, in this multum in parvo of a
book, the author should have spoken disparagingly of "Glorious JOHN." It would be worth while
to refer to MACAULAY's Dramatists of the Restoration, and to compare the licence of that age
with that of SHAKSPEARE's time, when a Virgin Queen, and not a Merry Monarch, was on the throne.
And, when we come to SHERIDAN's time, how about The Duenna, and The Trip to Scarborough, which
was supposed to be an improvement on the original? However, puris pura puerisque puellis, as
my excellent friend, Miss MAXIMA DE BETUR observes. But one ought not to look a gift pony in
the mouth any more than one ought to critically examine a jest which is passed off in good
company. The jest was not meant to be criticised, and the pony wasn't given you in order that
you might critically express an opinion on its age. If a pony--a very quiet, steady grey pony--were
presented as a mark of affection and esteem to the Baron, he most certainly would not inspect
its mouth, seeing that he would not be a tooth the wiser for the operation; but, if the Baron
had a friendly vet. or a hipposcientist at hand, he would certainly ask him to examine the
gift cob before the Baron either drove or rode him.

Quo tendimus? In Latium? Verily, for the next work at hand is Mr. HUTTON's Monograph on Cardinal
Newman, which, of all the writings about his Eminence that I've lately read, I can (says the
Baron, in one of his more severely sedate moods,) most confidently recommend to general readers
of all denominations, and of all shades of opinion, whom Mr. HUTTON may address as "Friends,
Romans, Countrymen!" That learned Theban, "JOHN OLDCASTLE," has written an interesting Biography
of "The noblest Roman of them all," which forms a special number of the Merry England Magazine.

Margaret Byng, by F.C. PHILLIPS and FENDALL, is a clever sensational story, spun out into two
volumes, which can be devoured by the accomplished novel-swallower in any two hours' train
journey, and can be highly recommended for this particular purpose. It would have been better,
because less expensive and more portable, had it been in one volume; but the Baron strongly
recommends it for the above space of time in a train, or whenever you've nothing better to
do, which will happen occasionally even to the wisest and best of us. The secret is very well
kept to the end; and an expert in novel-reading can do the first volume in three-quarters of
an hour, and the next in half an hour easily, and be none the worse for the tour de force,
as he will have amused and interested himself for the time being, will forget all about it
in an hour or so, and wonder what it was all about if at any future time the name of the book
should be mentioned in his hearing. It's the sort of book that ought to be the size of a Tauchnitz
edition, in one volume only, and sold for a couple of shillings.

The facsimile of DICKENS's MS. of the Christmas Carol, published by Messrs. ELLIOTT STOCK,
is a happy thought for the coming Christmas, and that Christmas is coming is a matter about
which publishers within the next six weeks will not allow anyone to entertain the shadow or
the ghost of a doubt. What a good subject for a Christmas story, The Ghost of a Doubt; or,
The Shadow of a Reason! "Methinks," quoth the Baron, "it would be as well to register these
two titles and couple of subjects before anyone seizes them as his own." Most interesting is
this facsimile MS., showing how DICKENS wrote it, corrected it, and polished it up. Though,
that this was the only MS. of this work, the Baron doubts. It may have been the only complete
MS., but where are all the notes, rough or smooth, of the inspirations as they occurred? Those,
the germs of this story or of any story, would be the most interesting of all; that is, to
the confraternity of Authors. There is a pleasant preface, lively, of course, it should be,
as coming from a Kitten who might have given us a catty-logue of the works of DICKENS in his
possession.

"Thank you, Mr. B.L. FARJEON," says the Baron, "for a clever little novel called A Very Young
Couple." Perhaps it might have been a trifle shorter than it is with advantage; and, if it
had been published in that still more pocketable form which has made the Routledgean series
of portable-readables so popular with the Baron, and those who are guided by his advice, the
book would be still better. As it is, it is clever, because the astute novel-reader at once
discards the real and only solution of the mystery as far too commonplace, and this solution
is the one which Mr. FARJEON has adopted. It is the expected-unexpected that happens in this
case, and the astute reader is particularly pleased with himself, because he finishes by saying,
"I knew how it would be, all along."

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S DICTIONARY OF PHRASES.

DURING A VISIT.

"Pray don't move;" i.e., "He will be a brute if he doesn't."

"I hope I am not disturbing you;" i.e., "I don't care the least if I am."

"What a delightful volume of poems your last is!" i.e., "Haven't read one of them; but he won't
find it out."

"So much in your new book that is interesting about those dear Japanese;" i.e., "Glad I happened
to glance at that page."

"Do tell me when you next lecture. Wouldn't miss it for worlds!" i.e., "Wild horses would not
drag me there."

"So sorry you are going. Mind you come and stay with us again very soon;" i.e., "Unless she
comes without an invitation, she is not likely to cross this threshold again."

       *       *       *       *       *

INCOMPREHENSIBLE!--At the dinner given by the LORD MAYOR, a few days since, to the representatives
of Art and Literature of all nations, a linguist, who is believed to understand seventeen languages,
made a speech in the eighteenth!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A FAMILY QUESTION.

A SONG FOR THE SITUATION.

AIR--"THE CHESAPEAKE AND THE SHANNON."

  MCKINLEY, brave and bold, as the universe is told,
    Brought forth his Tariff Bill so neat and handy, O!
  And true patriots, everyone thought the business splendid fun,
    With their music playing Yankee-doodle dandy, O!
      Yankee-doodle, Yankee-doodle dandy. Ah, methinks I hear the "Shockings"! Mr. SEGAR, who represented the Plaintiff,
said that the Defendant was "wrong in his law," and Judge Sir HORATIO
LLOYD assented to the proposition by giving a verdict for the full
amount claimed. From this it would appear that there was "no valley"
(as a Cockney would say) in the point of the Hill--the Judge Advocate
of the Fleet being on this occasion, if not in his native element, at
any rate, "quite at sea!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

STEAM-ROLLING EXPERIENCES.--That you should have endeavoured to have turned the birthday-gift
of your eccentric nephews to account, and made an offer to the Municipality of West Bloxham
to "set" the High Street for them by going over it with the seventeen-ton steam-roller, with
which your youthful relatives had presented you, was only a nice and generous impulse on your
part; and it is undeniably a great pity that, owing to your not fully understanding the working
of the machine, you should have torn away the front of three of the principal shops, finally
going through the floor of a fourth, and getting yourself apparently permanently embedded in
a position from which you cannot extricate yourself, in the very centre of the leading thoroughfare.
Your idea of getting out of the difficulty by presenting the steam-roller then and there to
the Borough was a happy one, and it is to be regretted that, under the circumstances, they
felt no inclination to accept your offer. Their threat of further proceedings against you unless
you take immediate steps to remove your machine, though, perhaps, to be expected, is certainly
a little unhandsome. Perhaps your best plan will be to try and start your Steam-roller as a
"Suburban Omnibus Company," as you propose. Certainly secure that Duke you mention for Chairman,
and, with one or two good City names on the Directorate, it is possible you may be successful
in your efforts to float the affair.

Meantime, since the proprietor of the premises in which your Steam-roller has fixed itself
refuses to allow you to try to remove it by dynamite, leave it where it is. Put the whole matter
into the hands of a sharp local lawyer, and go on to the Continent until it has blown over.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HIGHWAYS AND LOW WAYS.

There is evidently all the difference in the world between "The King's Highway"--of song--and
the Kingsland highway--of fact. Song says all is equal to--

  "High and low on the King's highway."

Experience teaches that a sober citizen traversing the highway unfavourably known as the Kingsland
Road, is liable to be tripped up, robbed and thumped senseless by organised gangs of Kingsland
roughs. It seems doubtful whether Neapolitan banditti or Australian bush-whackers are much
worse than these Cockney ruffians, these vulgar, vicious and villanous "Knights of the (Kingsland)
Road." Is it not high time that the local authorities--and the local police--looked to this
particular "highway," which seems so much more like a "byway" not to say a "by-word and a reproach"
to a city suburb?

       *       *       *       *       *

A CASE FOR THE SURGEONS.--Mrs. Ramsbotham, who has a great respect for the attainments of Members
of the Medical profession, cannot understand why Army Doctors should be called "non-competents."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MODERN MILKMAID'S SONG.

(AT THE DAIRY SHOW.)

AN EXTRACT FROM THE "COMPLETE ANGLER" OF THE FUTURE.

Piscator, MAUDLIN, I pray you, do us the courtesy to sing a song concerning your late visit
to London.

MAUDLIN sings:--

  Come live with me and be my love,
  And we will all the pleasures prove,
  That come in competition's field
  From reckoning up the Shorthorn's "yield."

  To Town we'll come in modish frocks,
  Where swells appraise our herds and flocks,
  By days "in profit" great or small,
  All in the Agricultural Hall.

  Cockneys shall come and poke their noses
  Into our churns as sweet as roses;
  And to quiz MAUDLIN in clean kirtle
  The toffs of Town will crush and hurtle.

  You'll see the Queen, of pride chock-full,
  Take first prize with her Shorthorn bull;
  Dr. H. WATNEY, of Buckhold,
  With "Cleopatra" hit the gold.

  A medal or a champion cup
  For cheese to munch, or cream to sup,
  Are pleasures rural souls to move,
  So live with me and be my love.

  Butter and eggs, milch cows and churns,
  With cattle foods shall take their turns;
  If Dairy Shows thy mind have won,
  Then come with me to Islington.

Viator. Trust me, Master, it is an apt song, and archly sung by modish MAUDLIN. I'll bestow
a bucolic Cockney's wish upon her, that she may live to marry a Competitive Dairyman, and have
good store of champion cups and first prizes stuck about her best parlour.

       *       *       *       *       *

A LICENCE FOR LORDS.

    [At the Blackheath Petty Sessions, Mr. LAWLESS, stated that
    the Trafalgar Hotel, belonged to the Lords of the Admiralty,
    and asked the Bench to transfer the licence to the resident
    caretaker.

    Captain ROBERTSON-SHERSBY, J.P.: Why not transfer it to the
    First Lord of the Admiralty? Are there no whitebait dinners
    held there?

    Mr. LAWLESS said that he was afraid that the days of whitebait
    dinners were over.

    The Bench, finding the Admiralty held the hotel for charitable
    purposes, granted the application.]

  Come, landsmen, give ear to my ditty,
    I'll make it as short as I can.
  There was once--was it London?--a city
    Which stretched from Beersheba to Dan.
  Of course that is gammon and spinach,
    Or, to put it correctly, a joke.
  It extended from Richmond to Greenwich,
    This city of darkness and smoke.

  It had sailors who ruled o'er the ocean,
    And sat all the day upon Boards,
  And described, with delightful emotion,
    Themselves and their colleagues as "Lords."
  They had tubes that were always exploding,
    And boilers that never were right,
  But had all got a trick of exploding,
    And blowing a crew out of sight.

  They had docks (and, alas! they had dockers),
    They had ships that kept sinking like stones,
  Which resulted in filling the lockers
    Provided below by D. JONES.
  Of their country these lineal successors
    Of NELSON deserved very well,
  When at last they became the possessors
    Of an old fully-licensed hotel.

  And they made up a case which was flawless,
    For the Sessions that sat at Blackheath,
  And they sent--which was strange--Mr. LAWLESS,
    Who was crammed full of law to the teeth.
  "The days when we all lived in clover,
    With whitebait, can never revive,
  I assure you," said LAWLESS, "they're over,
    But, oh, keep the licence alive."

  But the Bench, when they heard him, grew bolder--
    "Make it out to George Hamilton--he
  Is the man who should figure as holder,"
    Said ROBERTSON-SHERSBY, J.P.
  Just to think of the head of the Navy,
    The proudest and strongest afloat,
  Cutting joints or distributing gravy,
    First Lord of his own table d'hôte!

  Will their Charity be a beginner
    At home? Will they dine there each day,
  These Lords, on a succulent dinner,
    Free, gratis, and nothing to pay?
  Well, well, though we'd rather prefer ships
    That burst not, we'll take what they give.
  So we offer our thanks to their Worships
    For permitting the licence to live.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S PRIZE NOVELS.

NO. III.--JOANNA OF THE CROSS WAYS.

(BY GEORGE VERIMYTH, AUTHOR OF "RICHARD'S SEVERAL EDITIONS," "THE APHORIST," "SHAMPOO'S SHAVING-POT.")

    [With this story came a long, explanatory letter. The story,
    however, is itself so clear and easy to understand (as is all
    the work of this master), that the accompanying commentary is
    unnecessary.]

CHAPTER I.

