Mr. Croker's behaviour has indeed distressed me, for I had always considered him as one of
those bad enemies who make excellent friends. I had not the least idea that he had ever ceased
to regard you personally with friendship, even affection, until B.D. told me about his trafficking
with Knight; for as to the little hints you gave me when in town, I set all that down to his
aversion for the notion of your setting up a paper, and thereby dethroning him from his invisible
predominance over the Tory daily press, and of course attached little importance to it. I am
now satisfied, more particularly after hearing how he behaved himself in the interview with
you, that there is some deeper feeling in his mind. The correspondence that has been passing
between him and me may have been somewhat imprudently managed on my part. I may have committed
myself to a certain extent in it in more ways than one. It is needless to regret what cannot
be undone; at all events, I perceive that it is now over with us for the present. I do not,
however, believe but that he will continue to do what he has been used to do for the Review;
indeed, unless he makes the newspaper business his excuse, he stands completely pledged to
me to adhere to that.

But with reverence be it spoken, even this does not seem to me a matter of very great moment.
On the contrary, I believe that his papers in the Review have (with a few exceptions) done
the work a great deal more harm than good. I cannot express what I feel; but there was always
the bitterness of Gifford without his dignity, and the bigotry of Southey without his bonne-foi.
His scourging of such poor deer as Lady Morgan was unworthy of a work of that rank. If we can
get the same information elsewhere, no fear that we need equally regret the secretary's quill.
As it is, we must be contented to watch the course of things and recollect the Roman's maxim,
"quae casus obtullerint ad sapientiam vertenda."

I an vexed not a little at Mr. Barrow's imprudence in mentioning my name to Croker and to Rose
as in connection with the paper; and for this reason that I was most anxious to have produced
at least one number of the Review ere that matter should have been at all suspected. As it
is, I hope you will still find means to make Barrow, Rose, and Croker (at all events the two
last) completely understand that you had, indeed, wished me to edit the paper, but that I had
declined that, and that then you had offered me the Review.

No matter what you say as to the firm belief I have expressed that the paper will answer, and
the resolutions I have made to assist you by writing political articles in it. It is of the
highest importance that in our anxiety about a new affair one should not lose sight of the
old and established one, and I can believe that if the real state of the case were known at
the outset of my career in London, a considerable feeling detrimental to the Quarterly might
be excited. We have enough of adverse feelings to meet, without unnecessarily swelling their
number and aggravating their quality.

I beg you to have a serious conversation with Mr. Barrow on this head, and in the course of
it take care to make him thoroughly understand that the prejudices or doubts he gave utterance
to in regard to me were heard of by me without surprise, and excited no sort of angry feeling
whatever. He could know nothing of me but from flying rumours, for the nature of which he could
in no shape be answerable. As for poor Rose's well-meant hints about my "identifying myself
perhaps in the mind of society with the scavengers of the press," "the folly of your risking
your name on a paper," etc., etc., of course we shall equally appreciate all this. Rose is
a timid dandy, and a bit of a Whig to boot. I shall make some explanation to him when I next
have occasion to write to him, but that sort of thing would come surely with a better grace
from you than from me. I have not a doubt that he will be a daily scribbler in your paper ere
it is a week old.

To all these people--Croker as well as the rest--John Murray is of much more importance than
they ever can be to him if he will only believe what I know, viz. that his own name in society
stands miles above any of theirs. Croker cannot form the nucleus of a literary association
which you have any reason to dread. He is hated by the higher Tories quite as sincerely as
by the Whigs: besides, he has not now-a-days courage to strike an effective blow; he will not
come forward.

I come to pleasanter matters. Nothing, indeed, can be more handsome, more generous than Mr.
Coleridge's whole behaviour. I beg of you to express to him the sense I have of the civility
with which he has been pleased to remember and allude to me, and assure him that I am most
grateful for the assistance he offers, and accept of it to any extent he chooses.

In this way Mr. Lockhart succeeded to the control of what his friend John Wilson called "a
National Work"; and he justified the selection which Mr. Murray had made of him as editor:
not only maintaining and enhancing the reputation of the Review, by securing the friendship
of the old contributors, but enlisting the assistance of many new ones. Sir Walter Scott, though
"working himself to pieces" to free himself from debt, came to his help, and to the first number
which Lockhart edited he contributed an interesting article on "Pepys' Memoirs."

Lockhart's literary taste and discernment were of the highest order; and he displayed a moderation
and gentleness, even in his adverse criticism, for which those who knew him but slightly, or
by reputation only, scarce gave him credit. There soon sprang up between him and his publisher
an intimacy and mutual confidence which lasted till Murray's death; and Lockhart continued
to edit the Quarterly till his own death in 1854. In truth there was need of mutual confidence
between editor and publisher, for they were called upon to deal with not a few persons whose
deep interest in the Quarterly tempted them at times to assume a somewhat dictatorial tone
in their comments on and advice for the management of the Review. When an article written by
Croker, on Lamennais' "Paroles d'un Croyant," [Footnote: The article by J.W. Croker was afterwards
published in No. 104 of the Quarterly.] was under consideration, Lockhart wrote to the publisher:

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

November 8, 1826.

My Dear Murray,

It is always agreeable and often useful for us to hear what you think of the articles in progress.
Croker and I both differ from you as to the general affair, for this reason simply, that Lamennais
is to Paris what Benson or Lonsdale is to London. His book has produced and is producing a
very great effect. Even religious people there applaud him, and they are re-echoed here by
old Jerdan, who pronounces that, be he right or wrong, he has produced "a noble sacred poem."
It is needful to caution the English against the course of France by showing up the audacious
extent of her horrors, political, moral, and religious; and you know what was the result of
our article on those vile tragedies, the extracts of which were more likely to offend a family
circle than anything in the "Paroles d'un Croyant," and which even I was afraid of. Mr. Croker,
however, will modify and curtail the paper so as to get rid of your specific objections. It
had already been judged advisable to put the last and only blasphemous extract in French in
place of English. Depend upon it, if we were to lower our scale so as to run no risk of offending
any good people's delicate feelings, we should soon lower ourselves so as to rival "My Grandmother
the British" in want of interest to the world at large, and even (though they would not say
so) to the saints themselves.--Verb. sap.

Like most sagacious publishers, Murray was free from prejudice, and was ready to publish for
all parties and for men of opposite opinions. For instance, he published Malthus's "Essay on
Population," and Sadler's contradiction of the theory. He published Byron's attack on Southey,
and Southey's two letters against Lord Byron. He published Nugent's "Memorials of Hampden,"
and the Quarterly Review's attack upon it. Southey's "Book of the Church" evoked a huge number
of works on the Roman Catholic controversy, most of which were published by Mr. Murray. Mr.
Charles Butler followed with his "Book on the Roman Catholic Church." And the Rev. Joseph Blanco
White's "Practical and Internal Evidence against Catholicism," with occasional strictures on
Mr. Butler's "Book on the Roman Catholic Church." Another answer to Mr. Butler came from Dr.
George Townsend, in his "Accusations of History against the Church of Rome." Then followed
the Divines, of whom there were many: the Rev. Dr. Henry Phillpotts (then of Stanhope Rectory,
Durham, but afterwards Bishop of Exeter), in his "Letter to Charles Butler on the Theological
Parts of his Book on the Roman Catholic Church"; the Rev. G.S. Faber's "Difficulties of Romanism";
and many others.

While most authors are ready to take "cash down" for their manuscripts, there are others who
desire to be remunerated in proportion to the sale of their works. This is especially the case
with works of history or biography, which are likely to have a permanent circulation. Hence,
when the judicious Mr. Hallam--who had sold the first three editions of "Europe during the
Middle Ages" to Mr. Murray for £1,400--had completed his "Constitutional History of England,"
he made proposals which resulted in Mr. Murray's agreeing to print and publish at his own cost
and risk the "Constitutional History of England," and pay to the author two-thirds of the net
profits. And these were the terms on which Mr. Murray published all Mr. Hallam's subsequent works.

Mr. Wordsworth about this time desired to republish his Poems, and made application with that
object to Mr. Murray, who thereupon consulted Lockhart.

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray. July 9, 1826.

"In regard to Wordsworth I certainly cannot doubt that it must be creditable to any publisher
to publish the works of one who is and must continue to be a classic Poet of England. Your
adventure with Crabbe, however, ought to be a lesson of much caution. On the other hand, again,
W.'s poems must become more popular, else why so many editions in the course of the last few
years. There have been two of the 'Excursion' alone, and I know that those have not satisfied
the public. Everything, I should humbly say, depends on the terms proposed by the great Laker,
whose vanity, be it whispered, is nearly as remarkable as his genius."

The following is the letter in which Mr. Wordsworth made his formal proposal to Mr. Murray
to publish his collected poems:

Mr. Wordsworth to John Murray.

RYDAL MOUNT, NEAR AMBLESIDE

December 4, 1826.

Dear Sir,

I have at last determined to go to the Press with my Poems as early as possible. Twelve months
ago the were to have been put into the hands of Messrs. Robinson & Hurst, upon the terms of
payment of a certain sum, independent of expense on my part; but the failure of that house
prevented the thing going forward. Before I offer the publication to any one but yourself,
upon the different principle agreed on between you and me, as you may recollect, viz.; the
author to meet two-thirds of the expenses and risk, and to share two-thirds of the profit,
I think it proper to renew that proposal to you. If you are not inclined to accept it, I shall
infer so from your silence; if such an arrangement suits you, pray let me immediately know;
and all I have to request is, that without loss of time, when I have informed you of the intended
quantity of letter-press, you will then let me know what my share of the expense will amount to.

I am, dear Sir,

Your obedient servant,

WM. WORDSWORTH.

As Mr. Murray did not answer this letter promptly, Mr. H. Crabb Robinson called upon him to
receive his decision, and subsequently wrote:

Mr. H.G. Robinson to John Murray.

February 1827.

"I wrote to Mr. Wordsworth the day after I had the pleasure of seeing you. I am sorry to say
that my letter came too late. Mr. Wordsworth interpreted your silence into a rejection of his
offer; and his works will unfortunately lose the benefit of appearing under you auspices. They
have been under the press some weeks."

For about fifteen years there had been no business transactions between Murray and Constable.
On the eve of the failure of the Constables, the head of the firm, Mr. Archibald Constable
(October 1825), was paying a visit at Wimbledon, when Mr. Murray addressed his host--Mr. Wright,
whose name has already occurred in the Representative correspondence--as follows:

My Dear Wright,

Although I intend to do myself the pleasure of calling upon Mr. Constable at your house tomorrow
immediately after church (for it is our charity sermon at Wimbledon, and I must attend), yet
I should be most happy, if it were agreeable to you and to him, to favour us with your company
at dinner at, I will say, five tomorrow. Mr. Constable is godfather to my son, who will be
at home, and I am anxious to introduce him to Mr. C., who may not be long in town.

Mr. Constable and his friend accordingly dined with Murray, and that the meeting was very pleasant
may be inferred from Mr. Constable's letter of a few days later, in which he wrote to Murray,
"It made my heart glad to be once more happy together as we were the other evening." The rest
of Mr. Constable's letter referred to Hume's Philosophical Writings, which were tendered to
Murray, but which he declined to publish.

Constable died two years later, John Ballantyne, Scott's partner, a few years earlier; and
Scott entered in his diary, "It is written that nothing shall flourish under my shadow."

CHAPTER XXVI

SIR WALTER'S LAST YEARS

Owing to the intimate relations which were now established between Murray and Lockhart, the
correspondence is full of references to Sir Walter Scott and to the last phases of his illustrious
career.

Lockhart had often occasion to be at Abbotsford to see Sir Walter Scott, who was then carrying
on, single-handed, that terrible struggle with adversity, which has never been equalled in
the annals of literature. His son-in-law went down in February 1827 to see him about further
articles, but wrote to Murray: "I fear we must not now expect Sir W. S.'s assistance ere 'Napoleon'
be out of hand." In the following month of June Lockhart wrote from Portobello: "Sir W. Scott
has got 'Napoleon' out of his hands, and I have made arrangements for three or four articles;
and I think we may count for a paper of his every quarter." Articles accordingly appeared from
Sir Walter Scott on diverse subjects, one in No. 71, June 1827, on the "Works of John Home
"; another in No. 72, October 1827, on "Planting Waste Lands "; a third in No. 74, March 1828,
on "Plantation and Landscape Gardening "; and a fourth in No. 76, October 1828, on Sir H. Davy's
"Salmonia, or Days of Fly-Fishing." The last article was cordial and generous, like everything
proceeding from Sir Walter's pen. Lady Davy was greatly pleased with it. "It must always be
a proud and gratifying distinction," she said, "to have the name of Sir Walter Scott associated
with that of my husband in the review of 'Salmonia.' I am sure Sir Humphry will like his bairn
the better for the public opinion given of it by one whose immortality renders praise as durable
as it seems truly felt."

With respect to "Salmonia" the following anecdote may be mentioned, as related to Mr. Murray
by Dr. Gooch, a valued contributor to the Quarterly.

"At page 6 of Salmonia," said Dr. Gooch, "it is stated that 'Nelson was a good fly-fisher,
and continued the pursuit even with his left hand.' I can add that one of his reasons for regretting
the loss of his right arm was that it deprived him of the power of pursuing this amusement
efficiently, as is shown by the following incident, which is, I think, worth preserving in
that part of his history which relates to his talents as a fly-fisher. I was at the Naval Hospital
at Yarmouth on the morning when Nelson, after the battle of Copenhagen (having sent the wounded
before him), arrived in the Roads and landed on the Jetty. The populace soon surrounded him,
and the military were drawn up in the marketplace ready to receive him; but making his way
through the crowd, and the dust and the clamour, he went straight to the Hospital. I went round
the wards with him, and was much interested in observing his demeanour to the sailors. He stopped
at every bed, and to every man he had something kind and cheering to say. At length he stopped
opposite a bed in which a sailor was lying who had lost his right arm close to the shoulder
joint, and the following short dialogue passed between them. Nelson: 'Well, Jack, what's the
matter with you?' Sailor: 'Lost my right arm, your Honour.' Nelson paused, looked down at his
own empty sleeve, then at the sailor, and then said playfully, 'Well, Jack, then you and I
are spoiled for fishermen; but cheer up, my brave fellow.' He then passed quickly on to the
next bed, but these few words had a magical effect upon the poor fellow, for I saw his eyes
sparkle with delight as Nelson turned away and pursued his course through the wards. This was
the only occasion on which I ever saw Lord Nelson."

In the summer of 1828 Mr. Lockhart went down to Brighton, accompanied by Sir Walter Scott,
Miss Scott, Mrs. Lockhart and her son John--the Littlejohn to whom Scott's charming "Tales
of a Grandfather," which were at that time in course of publication, had been addressed. It
was on the boy's account the party went to Brighton; he was very ill and gradually sinking.

While at Brighton, Lockhart had an interview with the Duke of Wellington, and wrote to Murray
on the subject.

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray. May 18, 1828.

"I have a message from the D. of W. to say that he, on the whole, highly approves the paper
on foreign politics, but has some criticisms to offer on particular points, and will send for
me some day soon to hear them. I have of course signified my readiness to attend him any time
he is pleased to appoint, and expect it will be next week."

That the Duke maintained his interest in the Quarterly is shown by a subsequent extract:

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

AUCHENRAITH, January 19, 1829.

"Sir Walter met me here yesterday, and he considered the Duke's epistle as an effort of the
deepest moment to the Quarterly and all concerned. He is sure no minister ever gave a more
distinguished proof of his feeling than by this readiness to second the efforts of a literary
organ. Therefore, no matter about a week sooner or later, let us do the thing justice."

Before his departure for Brighton, Mr. Lockhart had been commissioned by Murray to offer Sir
Walter Scott £1,250 for the copyright of his "History of Scotland," a transaction concerning
which some informal communications had already passed.

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

MY DEAR SIR,

Sir W. Scott has already agreed to furnish Dr. Lardner's "Cyclopaedia" with one vol.--"History
of Scotland"--for £1,000, and he is now at this work. This is grievous, but you must not blame
me, for he has acted in the full knowledge of my connection with and anxiety about the Family
Library. I answered him, expressing my great regret and reminding him of Peterborough. I suppose,
as I never mentioned, nor well could, money, that Dr. Lardner's matter appeared more a piece
of business. Perhaps you may think of something to be done. It is a great loss to us and gain
to them.

Yours truly,

J.G.L.

After the failure of Ballantyne and Constable, Cadell, who had in former years been a partner
in Constable's house, became Scott's publisher, and at the close of 1827 the principal copyrights
of Scott's works, including the novels from "Waverley" to "Quentin Durward," and most of the
poems, were put up to auction, and purchased by Cadell and Scott jointly for £8,500. At this
time the "Tales of a Grandfather" were appearing by instalments, and Murray wrote to the author,
begging to be allowed to become the London publisher of this work. Scott replied:

Sir W. Scott to John Murray.

6, Shandwick Place, Edinburgh,

November 26, 1828.

My Dear Sir,

I was favoured with your note some time since, but could not answer it at the moment till I
knew whether I was like to publish at Edinburgh or not. The motives for doing so are very strong,
for I need not tell you that in literary affairs a frequent and ready communication with the
bookseller is a very necessary thing.

As we have settled, with advice of those who have given me their assistance in extricating
my affairs, to publish in Edinburgh, I do not feel myself at liberty to dictate to Cadell any
particular selection of a London publisher. If I did so, I should be certainly involved in
any discussions or differences which might occur between my London and Edinburgh friends, which
would be adding an additional degree of perplexity to my affairs. I feel and know the value
of your name as a publisher, but if we should at any time have the pleasure of being connected
with you in that way, it must be when it is entirely on your own account. The little history
designed for Johnnie Lockhart was long since promised to Cadell.

I do not, in my conscience, think that I deprive you of anything of consequence in not being
at present connected with you in literary business. My reputation with the world is something
like a high-pressure engine, which does very well while all lasts stout and tight, but is subject
to sudden explosion, and I would rather that another than an old friend stood the risk of suffering
by the splinters.

I feel all the delicacy of the time and mode of your application, and you cannot doubt I would
greatly prefer you personally to men of whom I know nothing. But they are not of my choosing,
nor are they in any way responsible to me. I transact with the Edinburgh bookseller alone,
and as I must neglect no becoming mode of securing myself, my terms are harder than I think
you, in possession of so well established a trade, would like to enter upon, though they may
suit one who gives up his time to them as almost his sole object of expense and attention.
I hope this necessary arrangement will make no difference betwixt us, being, with regard,

Your faithful, humble Servant,

Walter Scott.

On his return to London, Lockhart proceeded to take a house, No. 24, Sussex Place, Regent's
Park; for he had been heretofore living in the furnished apartments provided for him in Pall
Mall. Mr. Murray wrote to him on the subject:

John Murray to Mr. Lockhart.

July 31, 1828.

As you are about taking or retaking a house, I think it right to inform you now that the editor's
dividend on the Quarterly Review will be in future £325 on the publication of each number;
and I think it very hard if you do not get £200 or £300 more for your own contributions.

Most truly yours,

JOHN MURRAY.

At the beginning of the following year Lockhart went down to Abbotsford, where he found his
father-in-law working as hard as ever.

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

January 4, 1820.

"I have found Sir Walter Scott in grand health and spirits, and have had much conversation
with him on his hill-side about all our concerns. I shall keep a world of his hints and suggestions
till we meet; but meanwhile he has agreed to write almost immediately a one volume biography
of the great Earl of Peterborough, and I think you will agree with me in considering the choice
of this, perhaps the last of our romantic heroes, as in all respects happy. ... He will also
write now an article on some recent works of Scottish History (Tytler's, etc.) giving, he promises,
a complete and gay summary of all that controversy; and next Nov. a general review of the Scots
ballads, whereof some twenty volumes have been published within these ten years, and many not
published but only printed by the Bannatyne club of Edinburgh, and another club of the same
order at Glasgow.... I am coaxing him to make a selection from Crabbe, with a preface, and
think he will be persuaded."

January 8, 1829.

"Sir Walter Scott suggests overhauling Caulfield's portraits of remarkable characters (3 vols.,
1816), and having roughish woodcuts taken from that book and from others, and the biographies
newly done, whenever they are not in the words of the old original writers. He says the march
of intellect will never put women with beards and men with horns out of fashion--Old Parr,
Jenkins, Venner, Muggleton, and Mother Souse, are immortal, all in their several ways."

By 1829 Scott and Cadell had been enabled to obtain possession of all the principal copyrights,
with the exception of two one-fourth shares of "Marmion," held by Murray and Longman respectively.
Sir Walter Scott applied to Murray through Lockhart, respecting this fourth share. The following
was Murray's reply to Sir Walter Scott:

John Murray to Sir Walter Scott.

June 8, 1829.

My Dear Sir,

Mr. Lockhart has at this moment communicated to me your letter respecting my fourth share of
the copyright of "Marmion." I have already been applied to by Messrs. Constable and by Messrs.
Longman, to know what sum I would sell this share for; but so highly do I estimate the honour
of being, even in so small a degree, the publisher of the author of the poem, that no pecuniary
consideration whatever can induce me to part with it. But there is a consideration of another
kind, which, until now, I was not aware of, which would make it painful to me if I were to
retain it a moment longer. I mean, the knowledge of its being required by the author, into
whose hands it was spontaneously resigned in the same instant that I read his request. This
share has been profitable to me fifty-fold beyond what either publisher or author could have
anticipated; and, therefore, my returning it on such an occasion, you will, I trust, do me
the favour to consider in no other light than as a mere act of grateful acknowledgment for
benefits already received by, my dear sir,

Your obliged and faithful Servant,

JOHN MURRAY.

P.S.--It will be proper for your man of business to prepare a regular deed to carry this into
effect, which I will sign with the greatest self-satisfaction, as soon as I receive it.

Sir W. Scott to John Murray.

EDINBURGH, June 12, 1829.

My Dear Sir,

Nothing can be more obliging or gratifying to me than the very kind manner in which you have
resigned to me the share you held in "Marmion," which, as I am circumstanced, is a favour of
real value and most handsomely rendered. I hope an opportunity may occur in which I may more
effectually express my sense of the obligation than by mere words. I will send the document
of transference when it can be made out. In the meantime I am, with sincere regard and thanks,

Your most obedient and obliged Servant,

WALTER SCOTT.

At the end of August 1829 Lockhart was again at Abbotsford; and sending the slips of Sir Walter's
new article for the next Quarterly. He had already written for No. 77 the article on "Hajji
Baba," and for No. 81 an article on the "Ancient History of Scotland." The slips for the new
article were to be a continuation of the last, in a review of Tytler's "History of Scotland."
The only other articles he wrote for the Quarterly were his review of Southey's "Life of John
Bunyan," No. 86, in October 1830; and his review--the very last--of Pitcairn's "Criminal Trials
of Scotland," No. 88, in February 1831.

His last letter to Mr. Murray refers to the payment for one of these articles:

Sir W. Scott to John Murray.

ABBOTSFORD, Monday, 1830.

My Dear Sir,

I acknowledge with thanks your remittance of £100, and I will be happy to light on some subject
which will suit the Review, which may be interesting and present some novelty. But I have to
look forward to a very busy period betwixt this month and January, which may prevent my contribution
being ready before that time. You may be assured that for many reasons I have every wish to
assist the Quarterly, and will be always happy to give any support which is in my power.

I have inclosed for Moore a copy of one of Byron's letters to me. I received another of considerable
interest, but I do not think it right to give publicity without the permission of a person
whose name is repeatedly mentioned. I hope the token of my good wishes will not come too late.
These letters have been only recovered after a long search through my correspondence, which,
as usual with literary folks, is sadly confused.

I beg my kind compliments to Mrs. Murray and the young ladies, and am, yours truly,

WALTER SCOTT.

Scott now began to decline rapidly, and was suffering much from his usual spasmodic attacks;
yet he had Turner with him, making drawings for the new edition of his poems. Referring to
his last article in the Quarterly on Pitcairn's "Criminal Trials," he bids Lockhart to inform
Mr. Murray that "no one knows better your liberal disposition, and he is aware that £50 is
more than his paper is worth." Scott's illness increased, and Lockhart rarely left his side.

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

CHIEFSWOOD, September 16, 1831.

"Yesterday determined Sir W. Scott's motions. He owes to Croker the offer of a passage to Naples
in a frigate which sails in about a fortnight. He will therefore proceed southwards by land
next week, halting at Rokeby, and with his son at Notts, by the way. We shall leave Edinburgh
by next Tuesday's steamer, so as to be in town before him, and ready for his reception. We
are all deeply obliged to Croker on this occasion, for Sir Walter is quite unfit for the fatigues
of a long land journey, and the annoyances innumerable of Continental inns; and, above all,
he will have a good surgeon at hand, in case of need. The arrangement has relieved us all of
a great burden of annoyances and perplexities and fears."

Another, and the last of Lockhart's letters on this subject, may be given:

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

CHIEFSWOOD, September 19, 1831.

DEAR MURRAY,

In consequence of my sister-in-law, Annie Scott, being taken unwell, with frequent fainting
fits, the result no doubt of over anxieties of late, I have been obliged to let my wife and
children depart by tomorrow's steamer without me, and I remain to attend to Sir Walter thro'
his land progress, which will begin on Friday, and end, I hope well, on Wednesday. If this
should give any inconvenience to you, God knows I regret it, and God knows also I couldn't
do otherwise without exposing Sir W. and his daughter to a feeling that I had not done my duty
to them. On the whole, public affairs seem to be so dark, that I am inclined to think our best
course, in the Quarterly, may turn out to have been and to be, that of not again appearing
until the fate of this Bill has been quite settled. My wife will, if you are in town, be much
rejoiced with a visit; and if you write to me, so as to catch me at Rokeby Park, Greta Bridge,
next Saturday, 'tis well.

Yours,

J.G. LOCKHART.

P.S.--But I see Rokeby Park would not do. I shall be at Major Scott's, 15th Hussars, Nottingham,
on Monday night.

It would be beyond our province to describe in these pages the closing scenes of Sir Walter
Scott's life: his journey to Naples, his attempt to write more novels, his failure, and his
return home to Abbotsford to die. His biography, by his son-in-law Lockhart, one of the best
in the whole range of English literature, is familiar to all our readers; and perhaps never
was a more faithful memorial erected, in the shape of a book, to the beauty, goodness, and
faithfulness of a noble literary character.

In this work we are only concerned with Sir Walter's friendship and dealings with Mr. Murray,
and on these the foregoing correspondence, extending over nearly a quarter of a century, is
sufficient comment. When a committee was formed in Sir Walter's closing years to organize and
carry out some public act of homage and respect to the great genius, Mr. Murray strongly urged
that the money collected, with which Abbotsford was eventually redeemed, should be devoted
to the purchase of all the copyrights for the benefit of Scott and his family: it cannot but
be matter of regret that this admirable suggestion was not adopted.

During the year 1827 Mr. Murray's son, John Murray the Third, was residing in Edinburgh as
a student at the University, and attended the memorable dinner at which Scott was forced to
declare himself the author of the "Waverley Novels."

His account of the scene, as given in a letter to his father, forms a fitting conclusion to
this chapter.

"I believe I mentioned to you that Mr. Allan had kindly offered to take me with him to a Theatrical
Fund dinner, which took place on Friday last. There were present about 300 persons--a mixed
company, many of them not of the most respectable order. Sir Walter Scott took the chair, and
there was scarcely another person of any note to support him except the actors. The dinner,
therefore, would have been little better than endurable, had it not been remarkable for the
confession of Sir Walter Scott that he was the author of the 'Waverley Novels.'

"This acknowledgment was forced from him, I believe, contrary to his own wish, in this manner.
Lord Meadowbank, who sat on his left hand, proposed his health, and after paying him many compliments,
ended his speech by saying that the clouds and mists which had so long surrounded the Great
Unknown were now revealed, and he appeared in his true character (probably alluding to the
expose made before Constable's creditors, for I do not think there was any preconcerted plan).
Upon this Sir Walter rose, and said, 'I did not expect on coming here today that I should have
to disclose before 300 people a secret which, considering it had already been made known to
about thirty persons, had been tolerably well kept. I am not prepared to give my reasons for
preserving it a secret, caprice had certainly a great share in the matter. Now that it is out,
I beg leave to observe that I am sole and undivided author of those novels. Every part of them
has originated with me, or has been suggested to me in the course of my reading. I confess
I am guilty, and am almost afraid to examine the extent of my delinquency. "Look on't again,
I dare not!" The wand of Prospero is now broken, and my book is buried, but before I retire
I shall propose the health of a person who has given so much delight to all now present, The
Bailie Nicol Jarvie.'

"I report this from memory. Of course it is not quite accurate in words, but you will find
a tolerable report of it in the Caledonian Mercury of Saturday. This declaration was received
with loud and long applause. As this was gradually subsiding, a voice from the end of the room
was heard [Footnote: The speaker on this occasion was the actor Mackay, who had attained considerable
celebrity by his representation of Scottish characters, and especially of that of the famous
Bailie in "Rob Roy."] exclaiming in character,' Ma conscience! if my father the Bailie had
been alive to hear that ma health had been proposed by the Author of Waverley,' etc., which,
as you may suppose, had a most excellent effect."

CHAPTER XXVII

NAPIER'S "PENINSULAR WAR"--CHOKER'S "BOSWELL"--"THE FAMILY LIBRARY," ETC.

The public has long since made up its mind as to the merits of Colonel Napier's "History of
the Peninsular War." It is a work which none but a soldier who had served through the war as
he had done, and who, moreover, combined with practical experience a thorough knowledge of
the science of war, could have written.

At the outset of his work he applied to the Duke of Wellington for his papers. This rather
abrupt request took the Duke by surprise. The documents in his possession were so momentous,
and the great part of them so confidential in their nature, that he felt it to be impossible
to entrust them indiscriminately to any man living. He, however, promised Napier to put in
his hands any specified paper or document he might ask for, provided no confidence would be
broken by its examination. He also offered to answer any question Napier might put to him,
and with this object invited him to Stratfieldsaye, where the two Generals discussed many points
connected with the campaign.

Colonel W. Napier to John Murray.

BROMHAM, WILTS,

December 5, 1828.

Dear Sir,

My first volume is now nearly ready for the press, and as I think that in matters of business
a plain straightforward course is best, I will at once say what I conceive to be the valuable
part of my work, and leave you to make a proposition relative to publication of the single
volume, reserving further discussion about the whole until the other volumes shall be in a
more forward state.

The volume in question commences with the secret treaty of Fontainebleau concluded in 1809,
and ends with the battle of Corunna. It will have an appendix of original documents, many of
which are extremely interesting, and there will also be some plans of the battles. My authorities
have been:

1. All the original papers of Sir Hew Dalrymple.

2. Those of Sir John Moore.

3. King Joseph's correspondence taken at the battle of Vittoria, and placed at my disposal
by the Duke of Wellington. Among other papers are several notes and detailed instructions by
Napoleon which throw a complete light upon his views and proceedings in the early part of the war.

4. Notes of conversations held with the Duke of Wellington for the especial purpose of connecting
my account of his operations.

5. Notes of conversation with officers of high rank in the French, English, and Spanish services.

6. Original journals, and the most unreserved communications with Marshal Soult.

7. My own notes of affairs in which I have been present.

8. Journals of regimental officers of talent, and last but not least, copies taken by myself
from the original muster rolls of the French army as they were transmitted to the Emperor.

Having thus distributed all my best wares in the bow window, I shall leave you to judge for
yourself; and, as the diplomatists say, will be happy to treat upon a suitable basis. In the
meantime,

I remain, your very obedient Servant,

W. NAPIER.

About a fortnight later (December 25, 1827) he again wrote that he would have the pleasure
of putting a portion of his work into Mr. Murray's hands in a few days; but that "it would
be disagreeable to him to have it referred to Mr. Southey for an opinion." Murray, it should
be mentioned, had published Southey's "History of the War in Spain." Some negotiations ensued,
in the course of which Mr. Murray offered 500 guineas for the volume. This proposal, however,
was declined by Colonel Napier.

Murray after fuller consideration offered a thousand guineas, which Colonel Napier accepted,
and the volume was accordingly published in the course of 1828. Notwithstanding the beauty
of its style and the grandeur of its descriptions, the book gave great offence by the severity
of its criticism, and called forth a multitude of replies and animadversions. More than a dozen
of these appeared in the shape of pamphlets bearing their authors' names, added to which the
Quarterly Review, departing from the general rule, gave no less than four criticisms in succession.
This innovation greatly disgusted the publisher, who regarded them as so much lead weighing
down his Review, although they proceeded from the pen of the Duke's right-hand man, the Rt.
Hon. Sir George Murray. They were unreadable and produced no effect. It is needless to add
the Duke had nothing to do with them.

Mr. Murray published no further volumes of the "History of the Peninsular War," but at his
suggestion Colonel Napier brought out the second and succeeding volumes on his own account.
In illustration of the loss which occurred to Mr. Murray in publishing the first volume of
the history, the following letter may be given, as addressed to the editor of the Morning Chronicle:

John Murray to the Editor of the Morning Chronicle.

ALBEMARLE STREET, February 13, 1837.

SIR,

My attention has been called to an article in your paper of the 14th of January, containing
the following extract from Colonel Napier's reply to the third article in the Quarterly Review,
on his "History of the Peninsular War." [Footnote: The article appeared in No. 111 of Quarterly,
April 1836.]

"Sir George Murray only has thrown obstacles in my way, and if I am rightly informed of the
following circumstances, his opposition has not been confined to what I have stated above.
Mr. Murray, the bookseller, purchased my first volume, with the right of refusal for the second
volume. When the latter was nearly ready, a friend informed me that he did not think Murray
would purchase, because he had heard him say that Sir George Murray had declared it was not
'The Book.' He did not point out any particular error, but it was not 'The Book,' meaning,
doubtless, that his own production, when it appeared, would be 'The Book.' My friend's prognostic
was not false. I was offered just half of the sum given for the first volume. I declined it,
and published on my own account, and certainly I have had no reason to regret that Mr. Bookseller
Murray waited for 'The Book,' indeed, he has since told me very frankly that he had mistaken
his own interest."

In answer to the first part of this statement, I beg leave to say, that I had not, at the time
to which Colonel Napier refers, the honour of any acquaintance with Sir George Murray, nor
have I held any conversation or correspondence with him on the subject of Colonel Napier's
book, or of any other book on the Peninsular War. In reply to the second part of the statement,
regarding the offer for Colonel Napier's second volume of half the sum (viz. 500 guineas) that
I gave for the first volume (namely, 1,000 guineas), I have only to beg the favour of your
insertion of the following letter, written by me to Colonel Napier, upon the occasion referred to.

ALBEMARLE STREET, May 13, 1829.

MY DEAR SIR,

Upon making up the account of the sale of the first volume of "The History of the War in the
Peninsula" I find that I am at this time minus £545 12s. At this loss I do by no means in the
present instance repine, for I have derived much gratification from being the publisher of
a work which is so intrinsically valuable, and which has been so generally admired, and it
is some satisfaction to me to find by this result that my own proposal to you was perfectly
just. I will not, however, venture to offer you a less sum for the second volume, but recommend
that you should, in justice to yourself, apply to some other publishers; if you should obtain
from them the sum which you are right in expecting, it will afford me great pleasure, and,
if you do not, you will find me perfectly ready to negotiate; and in any case I shall continue
to be, with the highest esteem, dear Sir,

Your obliged and faithful servant,

JOHN MURRAY.

I am confident you will do me the justice to insert this letter, and have no doubt its contents
will convince Colonel Napier that his recollection of the circumstances has been incomplete.

I have the honour to be, sir,

Your obedient humble Servant,

JOHN MURRAY.

It may not be generally known that we owe to Colonel Napier's work the publication of the Duke
of Wellington's immortal "Despatches." The Duke, upon principle, refused to read Napier's work;
not wishing, as he said, to quarrel with its author. But he was made sufficiently acquainted
with the contents from friends who had perused it, and who, having made the campaigns with
him, could point to praise and blame equally undeserved, to designs misunderstood and misrepresented,
as well as to supercilious criticism and patronizing approval, which could not but be painful
to the great commander. His nature was too noble to resent this; but he resolved, in self-defence,
to give the public the means of ascertaining the truth, by publishing all his most important
and secret despatches, in order, he said, to give the world a correct account not only of what
he did, but of what he intended to do.

Colonel Gurwood was appointed editor of the "Despatches" and, during their preparation, not
a page escaped the Duke's eye, or his own careful revision. Mr. Murray, who was honoured by
being chosen as the publisher, compared this wonderful collection of documents to a watch:
hitherto the general public had only seen in the successful and orderly development of his
campaigns, as it were the hands moving over the dial without fault or failure, but now the
Duke opened the works, and they were enabled to inspect the complicated machinery--the wheels
within wheels--which had produced this admirable result. It is enough to state that in these
despatches the whole truth relating to the Peninsular War is fully and elaborately set forth.

At the beginning of 1829 Croker consulted Murray on the subject of an annotated edition of
"Boswell's Johnson." Murray was greatly pleased with the idea of a new edition of the work
by his laborious friend, and closing at once with Croker's proposal, wrote, "I shall be happy
to give, as something in the way of remuneration, the sum of one thousand guineas." Mr. Croker
accepted the offer, and proceeded immediately with the work.

Mr. Murray communicated to Mr. Lockhart the arrangement he had made with Croker. His answer was:

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

January 19, 1829.

"I am heartily rejoiced that this 'Johnson,' of which we had so often talked, is in such hands
at whatever cost. Pray ask Croker whether Boswell's account of the Hebridean Tour ought not
to be melted into the book. Sir Walter has many MS. annotations in his 'Boswell,' both 'Life'
and 'Tour,' and will, I am sure, give them with hearty good will.... He will write down all
that he has heard about Johnson when in Scotland; and, in particular, about the amusing intercourse
between him and Lord Auchinleck--Boswell's father--if Croker considers it worth his while."

Sir Walter Scott's offer of information, [Footnote: Sir Walter's letter to Croker on the subject
will be found in the "Croker Correspondence," ii. 28.] to a certain extent, delayed Croker's
progress with the work. He wrote to Mr. Murray (November 17, 1829): "The reference to Sir Walter
Scott delays us a little as to the revises, but his name is well worth the delay. My share
of the next volume (the 2nd) is quite done; and I could complete the other two in a fortnight."

While the work was passing through the press Lockhart again wrote:

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

"I am reading the new 'Boswell' with great pleasure, though, I think, the editor is often wrong.
A prodigious flood of light is thrown on the book assuredly; and the incorporation of the 'Tour'
is a great advantage. Now, do have a really good Index. That to the former edition I have continually
found inadequate and faulty. The book is a dictionary of wisdom and wit, and one should know
exactly where to find the dictum magistri. Many of Croker's own remarks and little disquisitions
will also be hereafter among the choicest of quotabilia."

Croker carried out the work with great industry and vigour, and it appeared in 1831. It contained
numerous additions, notes, explanations, and memoranda, and, as the first attempt to explain
the difficulties and enigmas which lapse of time had created, it may not unfairly be said to
have been admirably edited; and though Macaulay, according to his own account, "smashed" it
in the Edinburgh, [Footnote: The correspondence on the subject, and the criticism on the work
by Macaulay, will be found in the "Croker Correspondence," vol. ii. pp. 24-49.] some fifty
thousand of the "Life" have been sold.

It has been the fashion with certain recent editors of "Boswell's Johnson" to depreciate Croker's
edition; but to any one who has taken the pains to make himself familiar with that work, and
to study the vast amount of information there collected, such criticism cannot but appear most
ungenerous. Croker was acquainted with, or sought out, all the distinguished survivors of Dr.
Johnson's own generation, and by his indefatigable efforts was enabled to add to the results
of his own literary research, oral traditions and personal reminiscences, which but for him
would have been irrevocably lost.

The additions of subsequent editors are but of trifling value compared with the information
collected by Mr. Croker, and one of his successors at least has not hesitated slightly to transpose
or alter many of Mr. Croker's notes, and mark them as his own.

Mrs. Shelley, widow of the poet, on receiving a present of Croker's "Boswell," from Mr. Murray,
said:

Mrs. Shelley to John Murray.

"I have read 'Boswell's Journal' ten times: I hope to read it many more. It is the most amusing
book in the world. Beside that, I do love the kind-hearted, wise, and gentle Bear, and think
him as lovable and kind a friend as a profound philosopher."

Mr. Henry Taylor submitted his play of "Isaac Comnenus"--his first work--to Mr. Murray, in
February 1827. Lockhart was consulted, and, after perusing the play, he wrote to Mr. Murray:

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

"There can be no sort of doubt that this play is everyway worthy of coming out from Albemarle
Street. That the author might greatly improve it by shortening its dialogue often, and, once
at least, leaving out a scene, and by dramatizing the scene at the Synod, instead of narrating
it, I think sufficiently clear: but, probably, the author has followed his own course, upon
deliberation, in all these matters. I am of opinion, certainly, that no poem has been lately
published of anything like the power or promise of this."

Lockhart's suggestion was submitted to Mr. Taylor, who gratefully acknowledged his criticism,
and amended his play.

Mr. Taylor made a very unusual request. He proposed to divide the loss on his drama with the
publisher! He wrote to Mr. Murray:

"I have been pretty well convinced, for some time past, that my book will never sell, and,
under these circumstances, I cannot think it proper that you should be the sole sufferer. Whenever,
therefore, you are of opinion that the book has had a fair trial, I beg you to understand that
I shall be ready to divide the loss equally with you, that being, I conceive, the just arrangement
in the case."

Though Mr. Lockhart gave an interesting review of "Isaac Comnenus" in the Quarterly, it still
hung fire, and did not sell. A few years later, however, Henry Taylor showed what he could
do, as a poet, by his "Philip van Artevelde," which raised his reputation to the highest point.
Moore, after the publication of this drama, wrote in his "Diary": "I breakfasted in the morning
at Rogers's, to meet the new poet, Mr. Taylor, author of 'Philip van Artevelde': our company,
besides, being Sydney Smith and Southey. 'Van Artevelde' is a tall, handsome young fellow.
Conversation chiefly about the profits booksellers make of us scribblers. I remember Peter
Pindar saying, one of the few times I ever met him, that the booksellers drank their wine in
the manner of the heroes in the hall of Odin, out of authors' skulls." This was a sharp saying;
but Rogers, if he had chosen to relate his own experiences when he negotiated with Mr. Murray
about the sale of Crabbe's works, and the result of that negotiation, might have proved that
the rule was not of universal application.

"The Family Library" has already been mentioned. Mr. Murray had long contemplated a serial
publication, by means of which good literature and copyright works might be rendered cheaper
and accessible to a wider circle of readers than they had hitherto been.

The Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge was established in 1828, with Henry Brougham
as Chairman. Mr. Murray subscribed £10 to this society, and agreed to publish their "Library
of Entertaining Knowledge." Shortly afterwards, however, he withdrew from this undertaking,
which was transferred to Mr. Knight, and reverted to his own proposed publication of cheap works.

The first volume of "The Family Library" appeared in April 1829. Murray sent a copy to Charles
Knight, who returned him the first volume of the "Library of Entertaining Knowledge."

Mr. Charles Knight to John Murray.

"We each launch our vessels on the same day, and I most earnestly hope that both will succeed,
for good must come of that success. We have plenty of sea-room and need never run foul of each
other. My belief is that, in a very few years, scarcely any other description of books will
be published, and in that case we that are first in the field may hope to win the race."

Mr. Murray's intention was to include in the Library works on a variety of subjects, including
History, Biography, Voyages and Travels, Natural History, Science, and general literature.
They were to be written by the best-known authors of the day--Sir Walter Scott, Southey, Milman,
Lockhart, Washington Irving, Barrow, Allan Cunningham, Dr. Brewster, Captain Head, G.R. Gleig,
Palgrave, and others. The collection was headed by an admirable "Life of Napoleon," by J.G.
Lockhart, partly condensed from Scott's "Life of Napoleon Bonaparte," and illustrated by George
Cruikshank. When Lockhart was first invited to undertake this biography he consulted Sir Walter
Scott as to the propriety of his doing so. Sir Walter replied:

Sir W. Scott to Mr. Lockhart.

October 30, 1828.

"Your scruples about doing an epitome of the 'Life of Boney' for the Family Library that is
to be, are a great deal over delicate. My book in nine thick volumes can never fill the place
which our friend Murray wants you to fill, and which if you don't some one else will right
soon. Moreover, you took much pains in helping me when I was beginning my task, and I afterwards
greatly regretted that Constable had no means of remunerating you, as no doubt he intended
when you were giving him so much good advice in laying down his grand plans about the Miscellany.
By all means do what the Emperor [Footnote: From the time of his removal to Albemarle Street,
Mr. Murray was universally known among "the Trade" as "The Emperor of the West."] asks. He
is what the Emperor Napoleon was not, much a gentleman, and knowing our footing in all things,
would not have proposed anything that ought to have excited scruples on your side." [Footnote:
Lockhart's "Life of Scott."]

The book met with a warm reception from the public, and went through many editions.

Among other works published in "The Family Library" was the Rev. H.H. Milman's "History of
the Jews," in three vols., which occasioned much adverse criticism and controversy. It is difficult
for us who live in such different times to understand or account for the tempest of disapprobation
with which a work, which now appears so innocent, was greeted, or the obloquy with which its
author was assailed. The "History of the Jews" was pronounced unsound; it was alleged that
the miracles had been too summarily disposed of; Abraham was referred to as an Arab sheik,
and Jewish history was too sacred to be submitted to the laws of ordinary investigation. Hence
Milman was preached against, from Sunday to Sunday, from the University and other pulpits.
Even Mr. Sharon Turner expostulated with Mr. Murray as to the publication of the book. He said
he had seen it in the window of Carlile, the infidel bookseller, "as if he thought it suited
his purpose." The following letter is interesting as indicating what the Jews themselves thought
of the history.

Mr. Magnus to John Murray. March 17, 1834.

Sir,

Will you have the goodness to inform me of the Christian name of the Rev. Mr. Milman, and the
correct manner of spelling his name; as a subscription is about to be opened by individuals
of the Jewish nation for the purpose of presenting him with a piece of plate for the liberal
manner in which he has written their history.

The piece of plate was duly subscribed for and presented, with every demonstration of acknowledgment
and thanks. Milman's "History of the Jews" did not prevent his preferment, as he was promoted
from the vicarage of St. Mary's, Reading, to the rectorship of St. Margaret's, Westminster,
and a canonry in the Collegiate Church of St. Peter; after which, in 1849, he was made Dean
of St. Paul's.

CHAPTER XXVIII

MOORE'S "LIFE OF BYRON"

In 1827 or 1828 Mr. Hanson, the late Lord Byron's solicitor, wrote to Murray, enquiring, on
behalf of the executors, whether he would be willing to dispose of his interest in the first
five cantos of "Don Juan." Mr. Murray, however, had long been desirous of publishing a complete
edition of the works of Lord Byron, "for the public," he wrote, "are absolutely indignant at
not being able to obtain a complete edition of Lord Byron's works in this country; and at least
15,000 copies have been brought here from France." Murray proposed that those copyrights of
Lord Byron, which were the property of his executors, should be valued by three respectable
publishers, and that he should purchase them at their valuation. Mr. Hobhouse, to whom as one
of the executors this proposal was made, was anxious that the complete edition should be published
in England with as little delay as possible, but he stated that "some obstacles have arisen
in consequence of the Messrs. Hunt having upon hand some hundred copies of their two volumes,
which they have asked a little time to get rid of, and for which they are now accounting to
the executors."

Murray requested Mr. Hanson to apply to the executors, and inform him what sum they required
for the works of Lord Byron, the copyrights of which were in their possession. This they refused
to state, but after considerable delay, during which the Hunts were disposing of the two volumes,
the whole of the works of Lord Byron which were not in Mr. Murray's possession were put up
to auction, and bought by him for the sum of £3,885. These included the "Hours of Idleness,"
eleven cantos of "Don Juan," the "Age of Bronze," and other works--all of which had already
been published.

Notwithstanding the destruction of Lord Byron's Memoirs, described in a previous chapter, Murray
had never abandoned the intention of bringing out a Biography of his old friend the poet, for
which he possessed plenteous materials in the mass of correspondence which had passed between
them. Although his arrangement with Thomas Moore had been cancelled by that event, his eye
rested on him as the fittest person, from his long intimacy with the poet, to be entrusted
with the task, for which, indeed, Lord Byron had himself selected him.

Accordingly in 1826 author and publisher seem to have drawn together again, and begun the collection
of materials, which was carried on in a leisurely way, until Leigh Hunt's scandalous attack
on his old patron and benefactor [Footnote: "Recollections of Lord Byron and some of his Contemporaries,"
1828. 4to.] roused Murray's ardour into immediate action.

It was eventually resolved to publish the Life and Correspondence together; and many letters
passed between Murray and Moore on the subject.

From the voluminous correspondence we retain the following extract from a letter from Moore
to Murray:

"One of my great objects, as you will see in reading me, is to keep my style down to as much
simplicity as I am capable of; for nothing could be imagined more discordant than the mixture
of any of our Asiatico-Hibernian eloquence with the simple English diction of Byron's letters."

Murray showed the early part of "Byron's Life" to Lockhart, who replied to him at once:

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

February 23, 1829.

"I can't wait till tomorrow to say that I think the beginning of 'Byron' quite perfect in every
way--the style simple, and unaffected, as the materials are rich, and how sad. It will be Moore's
greatest work--at least, next to the 'Melodies,' and will be a fortune to you. My wife says
it is divine. By all means engrave the early miniature. Never was anything so drearily satisfactory
to the imagination as the whole picture of the lame boy's start in life."

Moore was greatly touched by this letter. He wrote from Sloperton:

Mr. Moore to John Murray.

"Lockhart's praise has given me great pleasure, and his wife's even still greater; but, after
all, the merit is in my subject--in the man, not in me. He must be a sad bungler who would
spoil such a story."

As the work advanced, Sir Walter Scott's opinion also was asked.

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

September 29, 1829.

"Sir Walter has read the first 120 pages of Moore's 'Life of Byron'; and he says they are charming,
and not a syllable de trop. He is now busy at a grand rummage among his papers, and has already
found one of Lord Byron's letters which shall be at Mr. Moore's service forthwith. He expects
to find more of them. This is curious, as being the first of 'Byron' to Scott."

The first volume of "Lord Byron's Life and Letters," published on January 1, 1830, was read
with enthusiasm, and met with a very favourable reception. Moore says in his Diary that "Lady
Byron was highly pleased with the 'Life,'" but among the letters received by Mr. Murray, one
of the most interesting was from Mrs. Shelley, to whom a presentation copy had been sent.

Mrs. Shelley to John Murray.

January 19, 1830.

Except the occupation of one or two annoyances, I have done nothing but read, since I got "Lord
Byron's Life." I have no pretensions to being a critic, yet I know infinitely well what pleases
me. Not to mention the judicious arrangement and happy tact displayed by Mr. Moore, which distinguish
the book, I must say a word concerning the style, which is elegant and forcible. I was particularly
struck by the observations on Lord Byron's character before his departure to Greece, and on
his return. There is strength and richness, as well as sweetness.

The great charm of the work to me, and it will have the same to you, is that the Lord Byron
I find there is our Lord Byron--the fascinating, faulty, philosophical being--daring the world,
docile to a private circle, impetuous and indolent, gloomy, and yet more gay than any other.
I live with him again in these pages--getting reconciled (as I used in his lifetime) to those
waywardnesses which annoyed me when he was away, through the delightful tone of his conversation
and manners.

His own letters and journals mirror himself as he was, and are invaluable. There is something
cruelly kind in this single volume. When will the next come? Impatient before, how tenfold
more so am I now. Among its many other virtues, this book is accurate to a miracle. I have
not stumbled on one mistake with regard either to time, place, or feeling.

I am, dear Sir,

Your obedient and obliged Servant,

MARY SHELLEY.

The preparation of the second volume proceeded more rapidly than the first, for Lord Byron's
letters to Murray and Moore during the later years of his life covered the whole period, and
gave to the record an almost autobiographical character. It appeared in January 1831, and amongst
many other readers of it Mrs. Somerville, to whom Mr. Murray sent a present of the book, was
full of unstinted praise.

Mrs. Somerville to John Murray.

January 13, 1831.

You have kindly afforded me a source of very great interest and pleasure in the perusal of
the second volume of Moore's "Life of Byron." In my opinion, it is very superior to the first;
there is less repetition of the letters; they are better written, abound more in criticism
and observation, and make the reader better acquainted with Lord Byron's principles and character.
His morality was certainly more suited to the meridian of Italy than England; but with all
his faults there is a charm about him that excites the deepest interest and admiration. His
letter to Lady Byron is more affecting and beautiful than anything I have read; it must ever
be a subject of regret that it was not sent; it seems impossible that it should not have made
a lasting impression, and might possibly have changed the destinies of both. With kind remembrances
to Mrs. Murray and the young people,

Believe me, truly yours,

MARY SOMERVILLE.

Mr. Croker's opinion was as follows:

"As to what you say of Byron's volume, no doubt there are longueurs, but really not many. The
most teasing part is the blanks, which perplex without concealing. I also think that Moore
went on a wrong principle, when, publishing any personality, he did not publish all. It is
like a suppression of evidence. When such horrors are published of Sir S. Romilly, it would
have been justice to his memory to show that, on the slightest provocation, Byron would treat
his dearest friend in the same style. When his sneers against Lady Byron and her mother are
recorded, it would lessen their effect if it were shown that he sneered at all man and womankind
in turn; and that the friend of his choicest selection, or the mistress of his maddest love,
were served no better, when the maggot (selfishness) bit, than his wife or his mother-in-law."

The appearance of the Life induced Captain Medwin to publish his "Conversations with Lord Byron,"
a work now chiefly remembered as having called forth from Murray, who was attacked in it, a
reply which, as a crashing refutation of personal charges, has seldom been surpassed. [Footnote:
Mr. Murray's answer to Medwin's fabrications is published in the Appendix to the 8vo edition
of "Lord Byron's Poems."]

Amongst the reviews of the biography was one by Lockhart in the Quarterly (No. 87), which was
very favourable; but an article, by Mr. Croker in No. 91, on another of Moore's works--the
"Life of Lord Edward Fitzgerald"--was of a very different character. Murray told Moore of the
approaching appearance of the article in the next number, and Moore enters in his Diary, "Saw
my 'Lord Edward Fitzgerald' announced as one of the articles in the Quarterly, to be abused
of course; and this too immediately after my dinings and junketings with both author and publisher."

Mr. Moore to John Murray.

October 25, 1831.

... I see that what I took for a joke of yours is true, and that you are at me in this number
of the Quarterly. I have desired Power to send you back my copy when it comes, not liking to
read it just now for reasons. In the meantime, here's some good-humoured doggerel for you:

THOUGHTS ON EDITORS.

Editur et edit.

No! Editors don't care a button,
  What false and faithless things they do;
They'll let you come and cut their mutton,
  And then, they'll have a cut at you.

With Barnes I oft my dinner took,
  Nay, met e'en Horace Twiss to please him:
Yet Mister Barnes traduc'd my Book,
  For which may his own devils seize him!

With Doctor Bowring I drank tea,
  Nor of his cakes consumed a particle;
And yet th' ungrateful LL.D.
  Let fly at me, next week, an article!

John Wilson gave me suppers hot,
  With bards of fame, like Hogg and Packwood;
A dose of black-strap then I got,
  And after a still worse of Blackwood.

Alas! and must I close the list
  With thee, my Lockhart of the Quarterly?
So kind, with bumper in thy fist,--
  With pen, so very gruff and tartarly.

Now in thy parlour feasting me,
  Now scribbling at me from your garret,--
Till, 'twixt the two, in doubt I be,
  Which sourest is, thy wit or claret?

Should you again see the Noble Scott before he goes, remember me most affectionately to him.
Ever yours,

Thomas Moore.

Mr. Murray now found himself at liberty to proceed with his cherished scheme of a complete
edition of Lord Byron's works.

John Murray to Mr. Moore.

February 28, 1832.

When I commenced this complete edition of Byron's works I was so out of heart by the loss upon
the first edition of the "Life," and by the simultaneous losses from the failure of three booksellers
very largely in my debt, that I had little if any hopes of its success, and I felt myself under
the necessity of declining your kind offer to edit it, because I did not think that I should
have had it in my power to offer you an adequate remuneration. But now that the success of
this speculation is established, if you will do me the favour to do what you propose, I shall
have great satisfaction in giving you 500 guineas for your labours.

Most sincerely yours,

John Murray.

In 1837, the year in which the work now in contemplation was published, the Countess Guiccioli
was in London, and received much kindness from Mr. Murray. After her return to Rome, she wrote
to him a long letter, acknowledging the beautifully bound volume of the landscape and portrait
illustrations of Lord Byron's works. She complained, however, of Brockedon's portrait of herself.

Countess Guiccioli to John Murray.

"It is not resembling, and to tell you the truth, my dear Mr. Murray, I wish it was so; not
on account of the ugliness of features (which is also remarkable), but particularly for having
this portrait an expression of stupidity, and for its being molto antipatico, as we say in
our language. But perhaps it is not the fault of the painter, but of the original, and I am
sorry for that. What is certain is that towards such a creature nobody may feel inclined to
be indulgent; and if she has faults and errors to be pardoned for, she will never be so on
account of her antipatia! But pray don't say that to Mr. Brockedon."

A copy was likewise sent to Sir R. Peel with the following letter:

ALBEMARLE STREET, April 17, 1837.

DEAR SIR,

As the invaluable instructions which you addressed to the students of the University of Glasgow
have as completely associated your name with the literature of this country, as your political
conduct has with its greatest statesmen, I trust that I shall be pardoned for having inscribed
to you (without soliciting permission) the present edition of the works of one of our greatest
poets, "your own school-and form-fellow," Byron.

I have the honour to be, etc.,

JOHN MURRAY.

The Right Hon. Sir R. Peel to John Murray.

WHITEHALL, April 18, 1837.

MY DEAR SIR,

I am much flattered by the compliment which you have paid to me in dedicating to me a beautiful
edition of the works of my distinguished "school-and form-fellow."

I was the next boy to Lord Byron at Harrow for three or four years, and was always on very
friendly terms with him, though not living in particular intimacy out of school.

I do not recollect ever having a single angry word with him, or that there ever was any the
slightest jealousy or coldness between us.

It is a gratification to me to have my name associated with his in the manner in which you
have placed it in friendly connection; and I do not believe, if he could have foreseen, when
we were boys together at school, this continuance of a sort of amicable relation between us
after his death, the idea would have been otherwise than pleasing to him.

Believe me,

My dear Sir,

Very faithfully yours,

ROBERT PEEL.

A few words remain to be added respecting the statue of Lord Byron, which had been so splendidly
executed by Thorwaldsen at Rome. Mr. Hobhouse wrote to Murray: "Thorwaldsen offers the completed
work for £1,000, together with a bas-relief for the pedestal, suitable for the subject of the
monument." The sculptor's offer was accepted, and the statue was forwarded from Rome to London.
Murray then applied to the Dean of Westminster, on behalf of the subscribers, requesting to
know "upon what terms the statue now completed could be placed in some suitable spot in Westminster
Abbey." The Dean's answer was as follows:

The Dean of Westminster to John Murray.

DEANERY, WESTMINSTER, December 17, 1834.

DEAR SIR,

I have not had the opportunity, till this morning, of consulting with the Chapter on the subject
of your note. When you formerly applied to me for leave to inter the remains of Lord Byron
within this Abbey, I stated to you the principle on which, as Churchmen, we were compelled
to decline the proposal. The erection of a monument in honour of his memory which you now desire
is, in its proportion, subject to the same objection. I do indeed greatly wish for a figure
by Thorwaldsen here; but no taste ought to be indulged to the prejudice of a duty.

With my respectful compliments to the Committee, I beg you to believe me,

Yours truly,

JOHN IRELAND.

The statue was for some time laid up in a shed on a Thames wharf. An attempt was made in the
House of Commons to alter the decision of the Dean and Chapter, but it proved of no avail.
"I would do my best," said Mr. Hobhouse, "to prevail upon Sir Robert Peel to use his influence
with the Dean. It is a national disgrace that the statue should lie neglected in a carrier's
ware-house, and it is so felt by men of all parties. I have had a formal application from Trinity
College, Cambridge, for leave to place the monument in their great library, and it has been
intimated to me that the French Government desire to have it for the Louvre." The result was
that the subscribers, in order to retain the statue in England, forwarded it to Trinity College,
Cambridge, whose noble library it now adorns.

The only memorial to Byron in London is the contemptible leaning bronze statue in Apsley House
Gardens, nearly opposite the statue of Achilles. Its pedestal is a block of Parian marble,
presented by the Greek Government as a national tribute to the memory of Byron.

CHAPTER XXIX

BENJAMIN DISRAELI--THOMAS CARLYLE--AND OTHERS

Me. Disraeli's earliest appearance as an author had been with the novel of "Vivian Grey," published
after a brief visit to Germany while he was still in his eighteenth year. Two volumes were
published in 1826, and a third volume, or continuation, in the following year. The work brought
the author some notoriety, but, as already noticed, it contained matter which gave offence
in Albemarle Street. After the publication of the first part, which was contemporaneous with
the calamitous affair of the Representative, Mr. Murray saw but little of the Disraeli family,
but at the commencement of 1830, Mr. Benjamin Disraeli once more applied to him for an interview.
Mr. Murray, however, in whose mind the former episode was still fresh, was unwilling to accede
to this request, and replied in the third person.

John Murray to Mr. B. Disraeli.

"Mr. Murray is obliged to decline at present any personal interview; but if Mr. Benjamin Disraeli
is disposed to confide his MS. to Mr. Murray as a man of business, Mr. Disraeli is assured
that the proposal will be entertained in every respect with the strictest honour and impartiality."

Mr. B. Disraeli to John Murray.

UNION HOTEL, COCKSPUR STREET, 1830.

The object of my interview with you is purely literary. It has always been my wish, if it ever
were my fate to write anything calculated to arrest public attention, that you should be the
organ of introducing it to public notice. A letter I received this morning from my elected
critic was the reason of my addressing myself to you.

I am sorry that Mr. Mitchell is out of town, because he is a person in whom you rightly have
confidence; but from some observations he made to me the other day it is perhaps not to be
regretted that he does not interfere in this business. As he has overrated some juvenile indiscretions
of mine, I fear he is too friendly a critic.

I am thus explicit because I think that candour, for all reasons, is highly desirable. If you
feel any inclination to pursue this affair, act as you like, and fix upon any critic you please.
I have no objection to Mr. Lockhart, who is certainly an able one, and is, I believe, influenced
by no undue partiality towards me.

At all events, this is an affair of no great importance--and whatever may be your determination,
it will not change the feelings which, on my part, influenced this application. I have the
honour to be, Sir,

Your obedient Servant,

BENJ. DISRAELI.

P.S.--I think it proper to observe that I cannot crudely deliver my MS. to any one. I must
have the honour of seeing you or your critic. I shall keep this negotiation open for a couple
of days--that is, I shall wait for your answer till Tuesday morning, although, from particular
circumstances, time is important to me.

Mr. Disraeli was about to make a prolonged journey abroad. Before he set out he again wrote
to Mr. Murray:

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray.

BRADENHAM, BERKS, May 27, 1830.

SIR,

I am unwilling to leave England, which I do on Saturday, without noticing your last communication,
because I should regret very much if you were to misconceive the motives which actuated me
in not complying with the suggestion therein contained. I can assure you I leave in perfect
confidence both in your "honour" and your "impartiality," for the first I have never doubted,
and the second it is your interest to exercise.

The truth is, my friend and myself differed in the estimate of the MS. alluded to, and while
I felt justified, from his opinion, in submitting it to your judgment, I felt it due to my
own to explain verbally the contending views of the case, for reasons which must be obvious.

As you forced me to decide, I decided as I thought most prudently. The work is one which, I
dare say, would neither disgrace you to publish, nor me to write; but it is not the kind of
production which should recommence our connection, or be introduced to the world by the publisher
of Byron and Anastasius.

I am now about to leave England for an indefinite, perhaps a long period. When I return, if
I do return, I trust it will be in my power for the third time to endeavour that you should
be the means of submitting my works to the public. For this I shall be ever ready to make great
sacrifices, and let me therefore hope that when I next offer my volumes to your examination,
like the Sibylline books, their inspiration may at length be recognised.

I am, Sir,

Your obedient Servant,

B. DISRAELI.

John Murray to Mr. Disraeli.

May 29, 1830.

Mr. Murray acknowledges the receipt of Mr. Benjamin Disraeli's polite letter of the 27th. Mr.
Murray will be ready at all times to receive any MS. which Mr. B. Disraeli may think proper
to confide to him. Mr. Murray hopes the result of Mr. Disraeli's travels will complete the
restoration of his health, and the gratification of his expectations."

Nearly two years passed before Mr. Disraeli returned to England from those travels in Spain,
the Mediterranean and the Levant, which are so admirably described in his "Home Letters," [Footnote:
"Home Letters," written by the late Earl of Beaconsfield in 1830 and 1831. London, 1885.] and
which appear to have exercised so powerful an influence on his own character, and his subsequent
career.

Sir,

I have at length completed a work which I wish to submit to your consideration. In so doing,
I am influenced by the feelings I have already communicated to you.

If you retain the wish expressed in a note which I received at Athens in the autumn of 1830,
I shall have the honour of forwarding the MS, to you. Believe me, Sir, whatever may be the result,

Very cordially yours,

BENJ. DISRAELI.

The MS. of the work was at once forwarded to Mr. Murray, who was, however, averse to publishing
it without taking the advice of his friends. He first sent it to Mr. Lockhart, requesting him
to read it and pronounce his opinion.

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

March 3, 1832.

"I can't say what ought to be done with this book. To me, knowing whose it is, it is full of
interest; but the affectations and absurdities are such that I can't but think they would disgust
others more than the life and brilliancy of many of the descriptions would please them. You
should send it to Milman without saying who is the author.--J.G.L."

The MS. was accordingly sent to Mr. Milman, but as he was very ill at the time, and could not
read it himself, but transferred it to his wife, much delay occurred in its perusal. Meanwhile,
Mr. Disraeli became very impatient about the publication, and again wrote:

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray.

March 4, 1832.

MY DEAR SIR,

I wish that I could simplify our arrangements by a stroke by making you a present of "The Psychological
Romance"; but at present you must indeed take the will for the deed, although I hope the future
will allow us to get on more swimmingly. That work has, in all probability, cost me more than
I shall ever obtain by it, and indeed I may truly say that to write that work I have thrown
to the winds all the obvious worldly prospects of life.

I am ready to make every possible sacrifice on my part to range myself under your colours.
I will willingly give up the immediate and positive receipt of a large sum of money for the
copyright, and by publishing the work anonymously renounce that certain sale which, as a successful,
although I confess not very worthy author, I can command. But in quitting my present publisher,
I incur, from the terms of our last agreement, a virtual penalty, which I have no means to
pay excepting from the proceeds of my pen. Have you, therefore, any objection to advance me
a sum on the anticipated profits of the edition, not exceeding two hundred pounds?

It grieves me much to appear exacting to you, but I frankly tell you the reason, and, as it
will enable me to place myself at your disposal, I hope you will not consider me mercenary,
when I am indeed influenced by the most sincere desire to meet your views.

If this modification of your arrangement will suit you, as I fervently trust it will, I shall
be delighted to accede to your wishes. In that case let me know without loss of time, and pray
let us meet to talk over minor points, as to the mode of publication, etc. I shall be at home
all the morning; my time is very much occupied, and on Thursday or Friday I must run down,
for a day or two, to Wycombe to attend a public meeting. [Footnote: Mr. Disraeli was then a
candidate, on the Radical side, for the borough of Wycombe.]

Fervently trusting that this arrangement will meet your wishes,

Believe me, yours,

BENJ. DISRAELI.

While the MS. was still in Mr. Milman's hands, Mr. Disraeli followed this up with another letter:

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray

35 DUKE STREET, ST. JAMES'S.

MY DEAR SIR, I am very sensible that you have conducted yourself, with regard to my MS., in
the most honourable, kind, and judicious manner; and I very much regret the result of your
exertions, which neither of us deserve.

I can wait no longer. The delay is most injurious to me, and in every respect very annoying.
I am therefore under the painful necessity of requesting you to require from your friend the
return of my work without a moment's delay, but I shall not deny myself the gratification of
thanking you for your kindness and subscribing myself, with regard,

Your faithful Servant,

BENJ. DISRAELI.

At length Mr. Milman's letter arrived, expressing his judgment on the work, which was much
more satisfactory than that of Mr. Lockhart.

The Rev. H.H. Milman to John Murray.

READING, March 5, 1832.

MY DEAR SIR,

I have been utterly inefficient for the last week, in a state of almost complete blindness;
but am now, I trust, nearly restored. Mrs. Milman, however, has read to me the whole of the
MS. It is a very remarkable production--very wild, very extravagant, very German, very powerful,
very poetical. It will, I think, be much read--as far as one dare predict anything of the capricious
taste of the day--much admired, and much abused. It is much more in the Macaulay than in the
Croker line, and the former is evidently in the ascendant. Some passages will startle the rigidly
orthodox; the phrenologists will be in rapture. I tell you all this, that you may judge for
yourself. One thing insist upon, if you publish it-that the title be changed. The whole beauty,
of the latter part especially, is its truth. It is a rapid volume of travels, a "Childe Harold"
in prose; therefore do not let it be called "a Romance" on any account. Let those who will,
believe it to be a real history, and those who are not taken in, dispute whether it is truth
or fiction. If it makes any sensation, this will add to its notoriety. "A Psychological Auto-Biography"
would be too sesquipedalian a title; but "My Life Psychologically Related," or "The Psychology
of my Life," or some such title, might be substituted.

H.H. MILMAN.

Before Mr. Milman's communication had been received, another pressing letter arrived from Mr.
Disraeli.

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray.

MY DEAR SIR,

It is with deep regret and some mortification that I appear to press you. It is of the highest
importance to me that the "P.R." should appear without loss of time. I have an impending election
in the country, which a single and not improbable event may precipitate. It is a great object
with me, that my work should be published before that election.

Its rejection by you will only cause me sorrow. I have no desire that you should become its
publisher, unless you conceive it may be the first of a series of works, which may support
your name, and sustain your fortunes. There is no question of pecuniary matters between us;
I leave all these with you, with illimitable trust.

Pray, pray, my dear Sir, do not let me repent the feelings which impel me to seek this renewal
of our connection. I entreat therefore your attention to this subject, and request that you
will communicate your decision.

Believe me, as I have already said, that whatever that decision may be, I shall not the less
consider myself,

Very cordially yours,

B. DISRAELI.

And again, in a subsequent letter, Mr. Disraeli said:

"There is no work of fiction on whose character I could not decide in four-and-twenty hours,
and your critic ought not to be less able than your author. Pray, therefore, to communicate
without loss of time to your obedient faithful servant.

"B.D."

On receiving Mr. Milman's approval, Mr. Murray immediately made up his mind to publish the
work. He wrote to Mr. Disraeli:

John Murray to Mr. Disraeli.

March 6, 1832.

MY DEAR SIR,

Your MS. has this moment been returned to me, accompanied by a commendation which enables me
to say that I should be proud of being its publisher. But in these times I am obliged to refrain
from speculation, and I cannot offer any sum for it that is likely to be equal to its probable
value.

I would, however, if it so please you, print at my expense an edition of 1,200 or 1,500 copies,
and give you half the profits; and after the sale of this edition, the copyright shall be entirely
your own; so that if the work prove as successful as I anticipate, you will ensure all the
advantages of it without incurring any risque. If this proposal should not suit you, I beg
to add that I shall, for the handsome offer of your work in the first instance, still remain,

Your obedient Servant,

JOHN MURRAY.

Some further correspondence took place as to the title of the work. "What do you think," said
Mr. Disraeli, "of the 'Psychological Memoir'? I hesitate between this and 'Narrative,' but
discard 'History' or 'Biography.' On survey, I conceive the MS. will make four Byronic tomes,
according to the pattern you were kind enough to show me." The work was at length published
in 4 vols., foolscap 8vo, with the title of "Contarini Fleming: a Psychological Biography."

DEAR SIR,

From the notice of "C.F." in the Literary Gazette, which I received this morning, I imagine
that Jerdan has either bribed the printer, or purloined some sheets. It is evident that he
has only seen the last volume. It is unnecessary for me to observe that such premature notice,
written in such complete ignorance of the work, can do no good. I think that he should be reprimanded,
and his petty larceny arrested. I shall be in town on Tuesday.

Yours, B.D.

The work, when it appeared in 1833, excited considerable sensation, and was very popular at
the time of its publication. It is now included in the uniform edition of Lord Beaconsfield's
works.

During his travels in the East, Mr. Disraeli was attended by Lord Byron's faithful gondolier,
who had accompanied his master to Missolonghi, and remained with him till his death.

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray.

DUKE STREET, July 5, 1832.

DEAR SIR,

I have just returned to town, and will call in Albemarle Street as soon as I can. Tita, Lord
Byron's faithful servant, and [Footnote: See note, p. 259.] who was also my travelling companion
in the East, called upon me this morning. I thought you might wish to see one so intimately
connected with the lost bard, and who is himself one of the most deserving creatures in the world.

Yours faithfully,

B. DISRAELI.

At the same time that Mr. Disraeli was engaged on his novel, he was busy with another, but
this time a political work entitled "England and France: a Cure for the Ministerial Gallomania,"
dedicated to Lord Grey. The first letter on the subject--after Mr. Murray had agreed to publish
the work--appears to have been the following, from Bradenham, Monday night, but without date:

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray.

DEAR SIR,

By to-morrow's coach, at your desire, I send you one-half of the volume, which, however, is
not in the finished state I could have wished. I have materials for any length, but it is desirable
to get out without a moment's loss of time. It has been suggested to publish a volume periodically,
and let this come out as No. 1; so as to establish a journal of general foreign politics, for
which there are ample means of first-rate information. I have not been able even to revise
what is sent, but it will sufficiently indicate the work.

I am to meet a personage on Thursday evening in town, and read over the whole to him. It is
therefore absolutely necessary that the MS. should be returned to you on Thursday morning,
and I will call in Albemarle Street the moment of my arrival, which will be about four o'clock.
If in time, acknowledge the receipt by return of post.

The remaining portion of the volume consists of several more dramatic scenes in Paris, a view
of the character and career of L.P., [Footnote: Louis Philippe.] a most curious chapter on
the conduct of the Diplomatists, and a general view of the state of Europe at the moment of
publication. Pray be cautious, and above all let me depend upon your having the MS. on Thursday,
otherwise, as Liston says in "Love, Law and Physic," "we shall get all shot."

B.D.

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray,

Friday, 11 o'clock.

MY DEAR SIR,

I much regret that I missed you yesterday, but I called upon you the instant I arrived. I very
much wish to talk over the "Gallomania," and will come on to you, if it be really impossible
for you to pay me a visit. I have so much at this moment on my hands, that I should esteem
such an incident, not only an honour, but a convenience.

B.D.

There seems to have been a difference of opinion between the author and the publisher respecting
the title of the book:

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray.

DEAR SIR,

I have a great respect for your judgment, especially on the subject of titles, as I have shown
in another instance, one which I shall ever regret. In the present, I shall be happy to receive
from you any suggestion, but I can offer none. To me the Gallomania (or mania for what is French)
appears to be one of the most felicitous titles ever devised. It is comprehensive, it is explicit,
it is poignant and intelligible, as I should suppose, to learned and unlearned. The word Anglomania
is one of the commonest on the other side of the channel, is repeated daily in almost every
newspaper; has been the title of one or two works; and of the best farce in the French language.
It is here also common and intelligible.

There is no objection to erasing the epithet "New," if you think it loads the title.

Yours truly,

B.D.

The three following letters were written on the same day:

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray. DUKE STREET, March 30, 1832.

DEAR SIR,

I am going to dine with Baron D'Haussez, Baron de Haber, et hoc genus, today, and must report
progress, otherwise they will think I am trifling with them. Have you determined on a title?
What think you of "A Cure for the Ministerial Gallomania," and advertise, dedicated to Lord
Grey? Pray decide. You are aware I have not yet received a proof. Affairs look awkward in France.
Beware lest we are a day after the fair, and only annalists instead of prophets.

Your very faithful Servant, B. DISRAELI.

March 30.

DEAR SIR,

I think it does very well, and I hope you are also satisfied. I shall send you the rest of
the MS. tomorrow morning. There is a very remarkable chapter on Louis Philippe which is at
present with Baron D'Haussez; and this is the reason I have not forwarded it to you. I keep
the advertisement to show them.

B.D.

MY DEAR SIR,

In further answer to your note received this evening, I think it proper to observe that I entirely
agree with you that I "am bound to make as few alterations as possible," coming as they do
from such a quarter; and I have acted throughout in such a spirit. All alterations and omissions
of consequence are in this first sheet, and I have retained in the others many things of which
I do not approve, merely on account of my respect for the source from whence they are derived.

While you remind me of what I observed to your son, let me also remind you of the condition
with which my permission was accompanied, viz.: that everything was to be submitted to my approval,
and subject to my satisfaction. On this condition I have placed the proofs in the hands of
several persons not less distinguished than your friend, [Footnote: Mr. Croker, with Mr. B.
Disraeli's knowledge, revised the proofs.] and superior even in rank and recent office. Their
papers are on my table, and I shall be happy to show them to you. I will mention one: the chapter
on Belgium was originally written by the Plenipotentiary of the King of Holland to the Conference,
Baron Van Zuylen. Scarcely a line of the original composition remains, although a very able
one, because it did not accord with the main design of the book.

With regard to the omission, pp. 12, 13, I acknowledge its felicity; but it is totally at variance
with every other notice of M. de Talleyrand in the work, and entirely dissonant with the elaborate
mention of him in the last chapter. When the reviser introduced this pungent remark, he had
never even read the work he was revising.

With regard to the authorship of this work, I should never be ashamed of being considered the
author, I should be proud to be; but I am not. It is written by Legion, but I am one of them,
and I bear the responsibility. If it be supposed to be written by a Frenchman, all its good
effects must be marred, as it seeks to command attention and interest by its purely British spirit.

I have no desire to thrust my acquaintance on your critic. More than once, I have had an opportunity
to form that acquaintance, and more than once I have declined it, but I am ready to bear the
brunt of explanation, if you desire me.

It is quite impossible that anything adverse to the general measure of Reform can issue from
my pen or from anything to which I contribute. Within these four months I have declined being
returned for a Tory borough, and almost within these four hours, to mention slight affairs,
I have refused to inscribe myself a member of "The Conservative Club." I cannot believe that
you will place your critic's feelings for a few erased passages against my permanent interest.

But in fact these have nothing to do with the question. To convenience you, I have no objection
to wash my hands of the whole business, and put you in direct communication with my coadjutors.
I can assure you that it is from no regard for my situation that Reform was omitted, but because
they are of opinion that its notice would be unwise and injurious. For myself, I am ready to
do anything that you can desire, except entirely change my position in life.

I will see your critic, if you please, or you can give up the publication and be reimbursed,
which shall make no difference in our other affairs. All I ask in this and all other affairs,
are candour and decision.

The present business is most pressing. At present I am writing a chapter on Poland from intelligence
just received, and it will be ready for the printer tomorrow morning, as I shall finish it
before I retire. I await your answer with anxiety.

Yours truly,

B.D.

Mr. Disraeli was evidently intent upon the immediate publication of his work. On the following
day he wrote again to Mr. Murray:

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray.

March 31, 1832.

MY DEAR SIR,

We shall have an opportunity of submitting the work to Count Orloff tomorrow morning, in case
you can let me have a set of the proofs tonight, I mean as far as we have gone. I do not like
to send mine, which are covered with corrections.

Yours truly, B.D.

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray. Monday morning, 9 o'clock [April 2].

DEAR SIR,

Since I had the honour of addressing you the note of last night, I have seen the Baron. Our
interview was intended to have been a final one, and it was therefore absolutely necessary
that I should apprize him of all that had happened, of course concealing the name of your friend.
The Baron says that the insertion of the obnoxious passages is fatal to all his combinations;
that he has devoted two months of the most valuable time to this affair, and that he must hold
me personally responsible for the immediate fulfilment of my agreement, viz.: to ensure its
publication when finished.

We dine at the same house today, and I have pledged myself to give him a categorical reply
at that time, and to ensure its publication by some mode or other.

Under these principal circumstances, my dear sir, I can only state that the work must be published
at once, and with the omission of all passages hostile to Reform; and that if you are unwilling
to introduce it in that way, I request from your friendliness such assistance as you can afford
me about the printer, etc., to occasion its immediate publication in some other quarter.

After what took place between myself and my coadjutor last night, I really can have for him
only one answer or one alternative, and as I wish to give him the first, and ever avoid the
second, I look forward with confidence to your answer.

B.D.

Mr. Disraeli next desires to have a set of the proofs to put into the hands of the Duke of
Wellington:

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray,

April 6, 1832.

MY DEAR SIR,

I have just received a note, that if I can get a set of clean proofs by Sunday, they will be
put in the Duke's hands preliminary to the debate. I thought you would like to know this. Do
you think it impossible? Let this be between us. I am sorry to give you all this trouble, but
I know your zeal, and the interest you take in these affairs. I myself will never keep the
printer, and engage when the proofs are sent me to prepare them for the press within an hour.

Yours,

B.D.

Mr. Disraeli to John Murray.

MY DEAR SIR,

I am very glad to receive the copy. I think that one should be sent to the editor of the Times
as quickly as possible; that at least he should not be anticipated in the receipt, even if
in the notice, by a Sunday paper. But I leave all this to your better judgment. You will send
copies to Duke Street as soon as you have them.

B.D.

After the article in the Times had appeared, Baron de Haber, a mysterious German gentleman
of Jewish extraction, who had taken part in the production of "Gallomania," wrote to Mr. Murray:

Baron de Haber to John Murray.

2 Mai, 1832.

MON CHER MONSIEUR,

J'espère que vous serez content de l'article de Times sur la "Gallomania." C'est un grand pas
de fait. Il serait utile que le Standard et le Morning Post le copie en entier, avec des observations
dans son sens. C'est a vous, mon cher Monsieur Murray, de soigner cet objet. J'ai infiniment
regrette de ne m'etre pas trouve chez moi hier, lorsque vous etes venu me voir, avec l'aimable
Mr. Lockhart.

Tout a vous,

DE H.

Baron de Haber to John Murray.

Vendredi.

MON CHER MONSIEUR MURRAY,

Vous desirez dans l'intèrêt de l'ouvrage faire mentionner dans le Standard que le Times d'aujourd'hui
paroît etre assez d'accord avec l'auteur de la "Gallomania" sur M. Thiers, espérant que de
jour en jour il reviendra aux idees de cet auteur.

Il seroit aussi convenable de dire que la prophétie dans la lettre à My Lord Grey était assez
juste: Allusion--"In less than a month we shall no doubt hear of their warm reception in the
Provinces, and of some gratifying, perhaps startling, demonstrations of national gratitude."
Voyez, mon cher Monsieur, comme depuis 8 jours ces pauvres Députés qui ont voté pour le Ministre
sont traités, Si vous étes à la maison ce soir, dites-le-moi, je désire vous parler. Dinez-vous
chez-vous?

Votre dévoué,

DE H.

The following announcement was published by Mr. Disraeli in reply to certain criticisms of
his work:

"I cannot allow myself to omit certain observations of my able critic without remarking that
those omissions are occasioned by no insensibility to their acuteness.

"Circumstances of paramount necessity render it quite impossible that anything can proceed
from my pen hostile to the general question of Reform.

"Independent however of all personal considerations, and viewing the question of Reform for
a moment in the light in which my critic evidently speculates, I would humbly suggest that
the cause which he advocates would perhaps be more united in the present pages by being passed
over in silence. It is important that this work should be a work not of party but of national
interest, and I am induced to believe that a large class in this country, who think themselves
bound to support the present administration from a superficial sympathy with their domestic
measures, have long viewed their foreign policy with distrust and alarm.

"If the public are at length convinced that Foreign Policy, instead of being an abstract and
isolated division of the national interests, is in fact the basis of our empire and present
order, and that this basis shakes under the unskilful government of the Cabinet, the public
may be induced to withdraw their confidence from that Cabinet altogether.

"With this exception, I have adopted all the additions and alterations that I have yet had
the pleasure of seeing without reserve, and I seize this opportunity of expressing my sense
of their justness and their value.

"The Author of 'Gallomania.'" [Footnote: Several references are made to "Contarini Fleming"
and "Gallomania" in "Lord Beaconsfield's Letters to his Sister," published in 1887.]

The next person whom we shall introduce to the reader was one who had but little in common
with Mr. Benjamin Disraeli, except that, like him, he had at that time won little of that world-wide
renown which he was afterwards to achieve. This "writer of books," as he described himself,
was no other than Thomas Carlyle, who, when he made the acquaintance of Mr. Murray, had translated
Goethe's "Wilhelm Meister," written the "Life of Schiller," and several articles in the Reviews;
but was not yet known as a literary man of mark. He was living among the bleak, bare moors
of Dumfriesshire at Craigenputtock, where he was consoled at times by visits from Jeffrey and
Emerson, and by letters from Goethe, and where he wrote that strange and rhapsodical book "Sartor
Resartus," containing a considerable portion of his own experience. After the MS. was nearly
finished, he wrapt it in a piece of paper, put in it his pocket, and started for Dumfries,
on his way to London.

Mr. Francis Jeffrey, then Lord Advocate, recommended Carlyle to try Murray, because, "in spite
of its radicalism, he would be the better publisher." Jeffrey wrote to Mr. Murray on the subject,
without mentioning Carlyle's name:

Mr. Jeffrey to John Murray. May I, 1831.

"Lord Jeffrey [Footnote: Jeffrey writes thus, although he did not become a Lord of Session
till 1834.] understands that the earlier chapters of this work (which is the production of
a friend of his) were shown some months ago to Mr. Murray (or his reader), and were formally
judged of; though, from its incomplete state, no proposal for its publication could then be
entertained. What is now sent completes it; the earlier chapters being now under the final
perusal of the author.

"Lord Jeffrey, who thinks highly of the author's abilities, ventures to beg Mr. Murray to look
at the MS. now left with him, and to give him, as soon as possible, his opinion as to its probable
success on publication; and also to say whether he is willing to undertake it, and on what terms."

Carlyle, who was himself at the time in London, called upon Mr. Murray, and left with him a
portion of the manuscript, and an outline of the proposed volume.

Mr. Carlyle to John Murray.

6 WOBURN BUILDINGS, TAVISTOCK SQUARE,

Wednesday, August 10, 1831.

DEAR SIR,

I here send you the MS. concerning which I have, for the present, only to repeat my urgent
request that no time may be lost in deciding on it. At latest, next Wednesday I shall wait
upon you, to see what further, or whether anything further is to be done.

In the meanwhile, it is perhaps unnecessary to say, that the whole business is strictly confidential;
the rather, as I wish to publish anonymously.

I remain, dear Sir, yours truly,

THOMAS CARLYLE.

Be so kind as to write, by the bearer, these two words, "MS. received."

When Carlyle called a second time Murray was not at home, but he found that the parcel containing
the MS. had not been opened. He again wrote to the publisher on the following Friday:

Mr. Carlyle to John Murray.

DEAR SIR,

As I am naturally very anxious to have this little business that lies between us off my hands--and,
perhaps, a few minutes' conversation would suffice to settle it all--I will again request,
in case I should be so unlucky as to miss you in Albemarle Street, that you would have the
goodness to appoint me a short meeting at any, the earliest, hour that suits your convenience.

I remain, dear Sir, yours truly,

THOMAS CARLYLE.

This was followed up by a letter from Mr. Jeffrey:

Mr. Jeffrey to John Murray.

Sunday, August 28, 1831.

MY DEAR SIR,

Will you favour me with a few minutes' conversation, any morning of this week (the early part
of it, if possible), on the subject of my friend Carlyle's projected publication. I have looked
a little into the MS. and can tell you something about it. Believe me, always, very faithfully
yours,

F. JEFFREY.

The interview between Jeffrey and Murray led to an offer for the MS.

Mr. Carlyle to John Murray.

TUESDAY.

DEAR SIR,

I have seen the Lord Advocate [Jeffrey], who informs me that you are willing to print an edition
of 750 copies of my MS., at your own cost, on the principle of what is called "half profits";
the copyright of the book after that to belong to myself. I came down at present to say that,
being very anxious to have you as a publisher, and to see my book put forth soon, I am ready
to accede to these terms; and I should like much to meet you, or hear from you, at your earliest
convenience, that the business might be actually put in motion. I much incline to think, in
contrasting the character of my little speculation with the character of the times, that now
(even in these months, say in November) were the best season for emitting it. Hoping soon to
see all this pleasantly settled,

I remain, dear Sir, yours truly,

THOMAS CARLYLE.

Mr. Murray was willing to undertake the risk of publishing 750 copies, and thus to allow the
author to exhibit his literary wares to the public. Even if the whole edition had sold, the
pecuniary results to both author and publisher would have been comparatively trifling, but
as the copyright was to remain in the author's possession, and he would have been able to make
a much better bargain with the future editions, the terms may be considered very liberal, having
regard to the exceptional nature of the work. Mr. Carlyle, however, who did not know the usual
custom of publishers, had in the meantime taken away his MS. and offered it to other publishers
in London, evidently to try whether he could not get a better bid for his book. Even Jeffrey
thought it "was too much of the nature of a rhapsody, to command success or respectful attention."
The publishers thought the same. Carlyle took the MS. to Fraser of Regent Street, who offered
to publish it if Carlyle would give him a sum not exceeding £150 sterling. He had already been
to Longmans & Co., offering them his "German Literary History," but they declined to publish
the work, and he now offered them his "Sartor Resartus," with a similar result. He also tried
Colburn and Bentley, but without success. When Murray, then at Ramsgate, heard that Carlyle
had been offering his book to other publishers, he wrote to him:

John Murray to Mr. Carlyle.

September 17, 1831.

DEAR SIR,

Your conversation with me respecting the publication of your MS. led me to infer that you had
given me the preference, and certainly not that you had already submitted it to the greatest
publishers in London, who had declined to engage in it. Under these circumstances it will be
necessary for me also to get it read by some literary friend, before I can, in justice to myself,
engage in the printing of it.

I am, dear Sir, your faithful servant,

JOHN MURRAY.

To this Mr. Carlyle replied:

September 19, 1831

SIR,

I am this moment favoured with your note of the 17th, and beg to say, in reply,:

First.--That your idea, derived from conversation with me, of my giving you the preference
to all other Publishers, was perfectly correct. I had heard you described as a man of honour,
frankness, and even generosity, and knew you to have the best and widest connexions; on which
grounds, I might well say, and can still well say, that a transaction with you would please
me better than a similar one with any other member of the Trade.

Secondly.--That your information, of my having submitted my MS. to the greatest publishers
in London, if you mean that, after coming out of your hands, it lay two days in those of Messrs.
Longman & Rees, and was from them delivered over to the Lord Advocate, is also perfectly correct:
if you mean anything else, incorrect.

Thirdly.--That if you wish the Bargain, which I had understood myself to have made with you,
unmade, you have only to cause your Printer, who is now working on my MS., to return the same,
without damage or delay, and consider the business as finished. I remain, Sir, your obedient
servant,

THOMAS CARLYLE.

In the meantime Murray submitted the MS. to one of his literary advisers, probably Lockhart,
whose report was not very encouraging. Later, as Mr. Carlyle was unwilling to entertain the
idea of taking his manuscript home with him, and none of the other publishers would accept
it, he urgently requested Mr. Murray again to examine it, and come to some further decision.
"While I, with great readiness," he said, "admit your views, and shall cheerfully release you
from all engagement, or shadow of engagement, with me in regard to it: the rather, as it seems
reasonable for me to expect some higher remuneration for a work that has cost me so much effort,
were it once fairly examined, such remuneration as was talked of between us can, I believe,
at all times, be procured." He then proposed "a quite new negotiation, if you incline to enter
on such"; and requested his decision. "If not, pray have the goodness to cause my papers to
be returned with the least possible delay." The MS. was at once returned; and Carlyle acknowledged
its receipt:

Mr. Carlyle to John Murray.

October 6, 1831.

MY DEAR SIR,

I have received the MS., with your note and your friend's criticism, and I find it all safe
and right. In conclusion, allow me to thank you for your punctuality and courtesy in this part
of the business; and to join cordially in the hope you express that, in some fitter case, a
closer relation may arise between us. I remain, my dear Sir, faithfully yours,

T. CARLYLE.

Mr. Carlyle returned to Craigenputtock with his manuscript in his pocket; very much annoyed
and disgusted by the treatment of the London publishers. Shortly after his arrival at home,
he wrote to Mr. Macvey Napier, then editor of the Edinburgh Review:

"All manner of perplexities have occurred in the publishing of my poor book, which perplexities
I could only cut asunder, not unloose; so the MS., like an unhappy ghost, still lingers on
the wrong side of Styx: the Charon of Albemarle Street durst not risk it in his sutilis cymba,
so it leaped ashore again. Better days are coming, and new trials will end more happily."

A little later (February 6, 1832) he said:

"I have given up the notion of hawking my little manuscript book about any further. For a long
time it has lain quiet in its drawer, waiting for a better day. The bookselling trade seems
on the edge of dissolution; the force of puffing can go no further; yet bankruptcy clamours
at every door: sad fate! to serve the Devil, and get no wages even from him! The poor bookseller
Guild, I often predict to myself, will ere long be found unfit for the strange part it now
plays in our European World; and give place to new and higher arrangements, of which the coming
shadows are already becoming visible."

The "Sartor Resartus" was not, however, lost. Two years after Carlyle's visit to London, it
came out, bit by bit, in Fraser's Magazine. Through the influence of Emerson, it was issued,
as a book, at Boston, in the United States, and Carlyle got some money for his production.
It was eventually published in England, and, strange to say, has had the largest sale in the
"People's Edition of Carlyle's Works." Carlyle, himself, created the taste to appreciate "Sartor
Resartus."

CHAPTER XXX

MR. GLADSTONE AND OTHERS

In July 1838 Mr. W.E. Gladstone, then Tory member of Parliament for Newark-upon-Trent, wrote
to Mr. Murray from 6 Carlton Gardens, informing him that he has written and thinks of publishing
some papers on the subject of the relationship of the "Church and the State," which would probably
fill a moderate octavo volume, and that he would be glad to know if Mr. Murray would be inclined
to see them. Mr. Murray saw the papers, and on August 9 he agreed with Mr. Gladstone to publish
750 or 1,000 copies of the work on "Church and State," on half profits, the copyright to remain
with the author after the first edition was sold. The work was immediately sent to press, and
proofs were sent to Mr. Gladstone, about to embark for Holland. A note was received by Mr.
Murray from the author (August 17, 1838):

"I write a line from Rotterdam to say that sea-sickness prevented my correcting the proofs
on the passage."

This was Mr. Gladstone's first appearance in the character of an author, and the work proved
remarkably successful, four editions being called for in the course of three years. It was
reviewed by Macaulay in the Edinburgh for April 1839, and in the Quarterly by the Rev. W. Sewell
in December. "Church Principles," published in 1840, did not meet with equal success. Two years
later we find a reference to the same subject.

Mr. W.E. Gladstone to John Murray.

13 CARLTON HOUSE TERRACE, April 6, 1842.

My DEAR SIR,

I thank you very much for your kindness in sending me the new number of the Quarterly. As yet
I have only read a part of the article on the Church of England, which seems to be by a known
hand, and to be full of very valuable research: I hope next to turn to Lord Mahon's "Joan of Arc."

Amidst the pressure of more urgent affairs, I have held no consultation with you regarding
my books and the sale or no sale of them. As to the third edition of the "State in its Relations,"
I should think the remaining copies had better be got rid of in whatever summary or ignominious
mode you may deem best. They must be dead beyond recall. As to the others, I do not know whether
the season of the year has at all revived the demand; and would suggest to you whether it would
be well to advertise them a little. I do not think they find their way much into the second-hand
shops.

With regard to the fourth edition, I do not know whether it would be well to procure any review
or notice of it, and I am not a fair judge of its merits even in comparison with the original
form of the work; but my idea is, that it is less defective both in the theoretical and in
the historical development, and ought to be worth the notice of those who deemed the earlier
editions worth their notice and purchase: that it would really put a reader in possession of
the view it was intended to convey, which I fear is more than can with any truth be said of
its predecessors.

I am not, however, in any state of anxiety or impatience: and I am chiefly moved to refer these
suggestions to your judgment from perceiving that the Fourth Edition is as yet far from having
cleared itself.

I remain always,

Very faithfully yours,

W.E. GLADSTONE.

In the same year another author of different politics and strong anti-slavery views appeared
to claim Mr. Murray's assistance as a publisher. It was Mr. Thomas Fowell Buxton, M.P., who
desired him to publish his work upon the "Slave Trade and its Remedy."

Mr. Buxton to John Murray.

December 31, 1837.

"The basis of my proposed book has already been brought before the Cabinet Ministers in a confidential
letter addressed to Lord Melbourne.... It is now my purpose to publish a portion of the work,
on the nature, extent, and horrors of the slave trade, and the failure of the efforts hitherto
made to suppress it, [Footnote: See "Life of W.E. Forster," ch. iv.] reserving the remainder
for another volume to be published at a future day. I should like to have 1,500 copies of the
first volume thrown off without delay."

The book was published, and was followed by a cheaper volume in the following year, of which
a large number was sold and distributed.

The following letter illustrates the dangerous results of reading sleepy books by candle-light
in bed:

Mr. Longman to John Murray.

2 HANOVER TERRACE, 1838.

MY DEAR MURRAY,

Can you oblige me by letting me have a third volume of "Wilberforce"? The fact is, that in
reading that work, my neighbour, Mr. Alexander, fell fast asleep from exhaustion, and, setting
himself on fire, burnt the volume and his bed, to the narrow escape of the whole Terrace. Since
that book has been published, premiums of fire assurance are up, and not having already insured
my No. 2, now that the fire has broken out near my own door, no office will touch my house
nor any others in the Terrace until it is ascertained that Mr. Alexander has finished with
the book. So pray consider our position, and let me have a third volume to make up the set
as soon as possible.

Mr. Murray had agreed with the Bishop of Llandaff to publish Lord Dudley's posthumous works,
but the Bishop made certain complaints which led to the following letter from Mr. Murray:

John Murray to the Bishop of Llandaff.

December 31, 1839.

MY LORD,

I am told that your Lordship continues to make heavy complaints of the inconvenience you incur
by making me the publisher of "Lord Dudley's Letters," in consequence of the great distance
between St. Paul's Churchyard and Albemarle Street, and that you have discovered another cause
for dissatisfaction in what you consider the inordinate profits of a publisher.

My Lord, when I had the honour to publish for Sir Walter Scott and Lord Byron, the one resided
in Edinburgh, the other in Venice; and, with regard to the supposed advantages of a publisher,
they were only such as custom has established, and experience proved to be no more than equivalent
to his peculiar trouble and the inordinate risque which he incurs.

My long acquaintance with Lord Dudley, and the kindness and friendship with which he honoured
me to the last, made me, in addition to my admiration of his talents, desire, and, indeed,
expect to become the publisher of his posthumous works, being convinced that he would have
had no other. After what has passed on your Lordship's side, however, I feel that it would
be inconsistent with my own character to embarrass you any longer, and I therefore release
your Lordship at once from any promise or supposed understanding whatever regarding this publication,
and remain, my Lord,

Your Lordship's humble Servant,

JOHN MURRAY.

The Bishop of Llandaff seems to have thought better of the matter, and in Mr. Murray's second
letter to him (January 1, 1840) he states that, after his Lordship's satisfactory letter, he
"renews his engagement as publisher of Lord Dudley's 'Letters' with increased pleasure." The
volume was published in the following year, but was afterwards suppressed; it is now very scarce.

Mrs. Jameson proposed to Mr. Murray to publish a "Guide to the Picture-Galleries of London."
He was willing to comply with her request, provided she submitted her manuscript for perusal
and approval. But as she did not comply with his request, Mr. Murray wrote to her as follows:

John Murray to Mrs. Jameson.

July 14, 1840

MY DEAR MADAM,

It is with unfeigned regret that I perceive that you and I are not likely to understand each
other. The change from a Publisher, to whose mode of conducting business you are accustomed,
to another of whom you have heard merely good reports, operates something like second marriages,
in which, whatever occurs that is different from that which was experienced in the first, is
always considered wrong by the party who has married a second time. If, for a particular case,
you have been induced to change your physician, you should not take offence, or feel even surprise,
at a different mode of treatment.

My rule is, never to engage in the publication of any work of which I have not been allowed
to form a judgment of its merits and chances of success, by having the MSS. left with me a
reasonable time, in order to form such opinion; and from this habit of many years' exercise,
I confess to you that it will not, even upon the present occasion, suit me to deviate.

I am well aware that you would not wish to publish anything derogatory to the high reputation
which you have so deservedly acquired; but Shakespeare, Byron, and Scott have written works
that do not sell; and, as you expect money for the work which you wish to allow me the honour
of publishing, how am I to judge of its value if I am not previously allowed to read it?

Mrs. Jameson at length submitted her work for Mr. Murray's inspection; and after some negotiation,
her Guide-Book was purchased for £400.

Mr. Murray, it may here be mentioned, had much communication with Sir Robert Peel during his
parliamentary career. He published many of Peel's speeches and addresses--his Address to the
Students of Glasgow University; his Speeches on the Irish Disturbances Bill, the Coercion Bill,
the Repeal of the Union, and the Sugar Bills--all of which were most carefully revised before
being issued. Sugar had become so cloying with Sir Robert, that he refused to read his speeches
on the subject. "I am so sick of Sugar," he wrote to Murray, "and of the eight nights' debate,
that I have not the courage to look at any report of my speech--at least at present." A later
letter shows that the connection continued.

The Rt. Hon. Sir R. Peel to John Murray.

July or August, 1840.

DEAR SIR,

Your printer must be descended from him who omitted not from the seventh Commandment, and finding
a superfluous "not" in his possession, is anxious to find a place for it.

I am sorry he has bestowed it upon me, and has made me assure my constituents that I do not
intend to support my political principles. Pray look at the 4th line of the second page of
the enclosed.

Faithfully yours,

ROBERT PEEL.

No account of Mr. Murray's career would be complete without some mention of the "Handbooks,"
with which his name has been for sixty years associated; for though this series was in reality
the invention of his son, it was Mr. Murray who provided the means and encouragement for the
execution of the scheme, and by his own experience was instrumental in ensuring its success.

As early as 1817 Hobhouse had remarked on the inadequate character of most books of European
travel. In later years Mrs. Starke made a beginning, but her works were very superficial and
inadequate, and after personally testing them on their own ground, Mr. John Murray decided
that something better was needed.

Of the origin of the Guide-books Mr. John Murray the Third has given the following account
in Murray's Magazine for November 1889.

"Since so many thousands of persons have profited by these books, it may be of some interest
to the public to learn their origin, and the cause which led me to prepare them. Having from
my early youth been possessed by an ardent desire to travel, my very indulgent father acceded
to my request, on condition that I should prepare myself by mastering the language of the country
I was to travel in. Accordingly, in 1829, having brushed up my German, I first set foot on
the Continent at Rotterdam, and my 'Handbook for Holland' gives the results of my personal
observations and private studies of that wonderful country.

"At that time such a thing as a Guide-book for Germany, France, or Spain did not exist. The
only Guides deserving the name were: Ebel, for Switzerland; Boyce, for Belgium; and Mrs. Starke,
for Italy. Hers was a work of real utility, because, amidst a singular medley of classical
lore, borrowed from Lemprière's Dictionary, interwoven with details regulating the charges
in washing-bills at Sorrento and Naples, and an elaborate theory on the origin of Devonshire
Cream, in which she proves that it was brought by Phoenician colonists from Asia Minor into
the West of England, it contained much practical information gathered on the spot. But I set
forth for the North of Europe unprovided with any guide, excepting a few manuscript notes about
towns and inns, etc., in Holland, furnished me by my good friend Dr. Somerville, husband of
the learned Mrs. Somerville. These were of the greatest use. Sorry was I when, on landing at
Hamburg, I found myself destitute of such friendly aid. It was this that impressed on my mind
the value of practical information gathered on the spot, and I set to work to collect for myself
all the facts, information, statistics, etc., which an English tourist would be likely to require
or find useful.

The first of Mr. John Murray's Handbooks to the Continent, published 1836, included Holland,
Belgium, and North Germany, and was followed at short intervals by South Germany, Switzerland--in
which he was assisted by his intimate friend and fellow-traveller, William Brockedon, the artist,
who was then engaged in preparing his own splendid work on "The Peaks, Passes, and Glaciers
of the Alps"--and France. These were all written by Mr. Murray himself; but, as the series
proceeded, it was necessary to call in the aid of other writers and travellers. Switzerland,
which appeared in 1838, was followed in 1839 by Norway, Sweden, and Denmark, and in 1840 by
the Handbook to the East, the work of Mr. H. Parish, aided by Mr. Godfrey Levinge. In 1842
Sir Francis Palgrave completed the Guide to Northern Italy, while Central and Southern Italy
were entrusted to Mr. Octavian Blewitt, for many years Secretary of the Royal Literary Fund.

In later years, as well as at the earlier period, the originator of the Handbooks was fortunate
enough to secure very able colleagues, among whom it is sufficient to mention Richard Ford
for Spain, Sir Gardner Wilkinson for Egypt, Dr. Porter for Palestine, Sir George Bowen for
Greece, Sir Lambert Playfair for Algiers and the Mediterranean, and Mr. George Dennis for Sicily.
George Borrow had been a travelling missionary of the Bible Society in Spain, though in early
life he had prided himself on being an athlete, and had even taken lessons in pugilism from
Thurtell, who was a fellow-townsman. He was a native of Dereham, Norfolk, but had wandered
much in his youth, first following his father, who was a Captain of Militia. He went from south
to north, from Kent to Edinburgh, where he was entered as pupil in the High School, and took
part in the "bickers" so well described by Sir Walter Scott. Then the boy followed the regiment
to Ireland, where he studied the Celtic dialect. From early youth he had a passion, and an
extraordinary capacity, for learning languages, and on reaching manhood he was appointed agent
to the Bible Society, and was sent to Russia to translate and introduce the Scriptures. While
there he mastered the language, and learnt besides the Solavonian and the gypsy dialects. He
translated the New Testament into the Tartar Mantchow, and published versions from English
into thirty languages. He made successive visits into Russia, Norway, Turkey, Bohemia, Spain
and Barbary. In fact, the sole of his foot never rested. While an agent for the Bible Society
in Spain, he translated the New Testament into Spanish, Portuguese, Romany, and Basque--which
language, it is said, the devil himself never could learn--and when he had learnt the Basque
he acquired the name of Lavengro, or word-master.

Such was George Borrow when he called upon Murray to offer him the MSS. of his first book,
"The Gypsies in Spain." But this was only the beginning, and Borrow reaped much better remuneration
from future editions of the volume. Indeed, the book was exceedingly well received, and met
with a considerable sale; but not so great as his next work, "The Bible in Spain," which he
was now preparing.

Mr. George Borrow to John Murray. August 23, 1841. A book with such a Bible and of this description
can scarcely fail of success. It will make two nice foolscap octavo volumes of about 500 pages
each. I have not heard from Ford since I had last the pleasure of seeing you. Is his book out?
I hope that he will not review the 'Zincali' until the Bible is forthcoming, when he may, if
he please, kill two birds with one stone. I hear from Saint Petersburg that there is a notice
of the 'Zincali' in the Revue Britannique; it has been translated into Russian. Do you know
anything about it?"

Mr. George Borrow to John Murray. OULTON HALL, LOWESTOFT, January 1842. It is said that he
kills everybody who mounts him. I have been charming him, and have so far succeeded that he
does not fling me more than once in five minutes. What a contemptible trade is the author's
compared with that of the jockey's!

Mr. Borrow prided himself on being a horse-sorcerer, an art he learned among the gypsies, with
whose secrets he claimed acquaintance. He whispered some unknown gibberish into their ears,
and professed thus to tame them.

He proceeded with "The Bible in Spain." In the following month he sent to Mr. Murray the MS.
of the first volume. To the general information as to the contents and interest of the volume,
he added these words:

Mr. George Borrow to John Murray.

February, 1842.

"I spent a day last week with our friend Dawson Turner at Yarmouth. What capital port he keeps!
He gave me some twenty years old, and of nearly the finest flavour that I ever tasted. There
are few better things than old books, old pictures, and old port, and he seems to have plenty
of all three."

May 10, 1842.

"I am coming up to London tomorrow, and intend to call at Albemarle Street.... I make no doubt
that we shall be able to come to terms; I like not the idea of applying to second-rate people.

"P.S.--Ford's book not out yet?"

There seems to have been some difficulty about coming to terms. Borrow had promised his friends
that his book should be out by October 1, and he did not wish them to be disappointed:

Mr. George Borrow to John Murray.

July 4, 1842.

Why this delay? Mr. Woodfall [the printer] tells me that the state of trade is wretched. Well
and good! But you yourself told me so two months ago, when you wrote requesting that I would
give you the preference, provided I had not made arrangements with other publishers. Between
ourselves, my dear friend, I wish the state of the trade were ten times worse than it is, and
then things would find their true level, and an original work would be properly appreciated,
and a set of people who have no pretensions to write, having nothing to communicate but tea-table
twaddle, could no longer be palmed off upon the public as mighty lions and lionesses. But to
the question: What are your intentions with respect to "The Bible in Spain"? I am a frank man,
and frankness never offends me. Has anybody put you out of conceit with the book? There is
no lack of critics, especially in your neighbourhood. Tell me frankly, and I will drink your
health in Rommany.

In case of either of the above possibilities being the fact, allow me to assure you that I
am quite willing to release you from your share of the agreement into which we entered. At
the same time, I do not intend to let the work fall to the ground, as it has been promised
to the public. Unless you go on with it, I shall remit Woodfall the necessary money for the
purchase of paper, and when it is ready offer it to the world. If it be but allowed fair play,
I have no doubt of its success. It is an original book, on an original subject. Tomorrow, July
5, I am thirty-nine. Have the kindness to drink my health in Madeira.

Ever most sincerely yours,

GEORGE BORROW.

Terms were eventually arranged to the satisfaction of both parties. Borrow informed Murray
that he had sent the last proofs to the printer, and continued:

Mr. George Borrow to John Murray.

November 25, 1842.

Only think, poor Allan Cunningham dead! I know a good deal about him; "Traditional Tales,"
his best work, first appeared in London Magazine, Pray send Dr. Bowring a copy of the Bible-another
old friend. Send one to Ford, a capital fellow. God bless you--feel quite melancholy.

Ever yours,

G. BORROW.

"The Bible in Spain" was published towards the end of the year, and created a sensation. It
was praised by many critics, and condemned by others, for Borrow had his enemies in the press.

Mr. George Borrow to John Murray, Junior.

LOWESTOFT, December 1, 1842.

MY DEAR SIR,

I received your kind letter containing the bills. It was very friendly of you, and I thank
you, though, thank God, I have no Christmas bills to settle. Money, however, always acceptable.
I dare say I shall be in London with the entrance of the New Year; I shall be most happy to
see you, and still more your father, whose jokes do one good. I wish all the world were as
gay as he; a gentleman drowned himself last week on my property, I wish he had gone somewhere
else. I can't get poor Allan out of my head. When I come up, intend to go and see his wife.
What a woman! Yesterday read "Letters from the Baltic"; much pleased with it; very clever writer;
critique in Despatch harsh and unjust; quite uncalled for; blackguard affair altogether.

I remain, dear Sir, ever yours,

GEORGE BORROW,

December 31, 1842.

MY DEAR SIR,

I have great pleasure in acknowledging your very kind letter of the 28th, and am happy to hear
that matters are going on so prosperously. It is quite useless to write books unless they sell,
and the public has of late become so fastidious that it is no easy matter to please it. With
respect to the critique in the Times, I fully agree with you that it was harsh and unjust,
and the passages selected by no means calculated to afford a fair idea of the contents of the
work. A book, however, like "The Bible in Spain" can scarcely be published without exciting
considerable hostility, and I have been so long used to receiving hard knocks that they make
no impression upon me. After all, the abuse of the Times is better than its silence; it would
scarcely have attacked the work unless it had deemed it of some importance, and so the public
will think. All I can say is, that I did my best, never writing but when the fit took me, and
never delivering anything to my amanuensis but what I was perfectly satisfied with. You ask
me my opinion of the review in the Quarterly. Very good, very clever, very neatly done. Only
one fault to find--too laudatory. I am by no means the person which the reviewer had the kindness
to represent me. I hope to be in London towards the end of next month, and reckon much upon
the pleasure of seeing you. On Monday I shall mount my horse and ride into Norwich to pay a
visit to a few old friends. Yesterday the son of our excellent Dawson Turner rode over to see
me; they are all well, it seems. Our friend Joseph Gurney, however, seems to be in a strange
way--diabetes, I hear. I frequently meditate upon "The Life," and am arranging the scenes in
my mind. With best remembrances to Mrs. M. and all your excellent family,

Truly and respectfully yours,

GEORGE BORROW.

Mr. Richard Ford's forthcoming work--"The Handbook for Spain"--about which Mr. Borrow had been
making so many enquiries, was the result of many years' hard riding and constant investigation
throughout Spain, one of the least known of all European countries at that time. Mr. Ford called
upon Mr. Murray, after "The Bible in Spain" had been published, and a copy of the work was
presented to him. He was about to start on his journey to Heavitree, near Exeter. A few days
after his arrival Mr. Murray received the following letter from him:

Mr. Richard Ford to John Murray.

"I read Borrow with great delight all the way down per rail, and it shortened the rapid flight
of that velocipede. You may depend upon it that the book will sell, which, after all, is the
rub. It is the antipodes of Lord Carnarvon, and yet how they tally in what they have in common,
and that is much--the people, the scenery of Galicia, and the suspicions and absurdities of
Spanish Jacks-in-office, who yield not in ignorance or insolence to any kind of red-tapists,
hatched in the hot-beds of jobbery and utilitarian mares-nests ... Borrow spares none of them.
I see he hits right and left, and floors his man wherever he meets him. I am pleased with his
honest sincerity of purpose and his graphic abrupt style. It is like an old Spanish ballad,
leaping in res medias, going from incident to incident, bang, bang, bang, hops, steps, and
jumps like a cracker, and leaving off like one, when you wish he would give you another touch
or coup de grâce ... He really sometimes puts me in mind of Gil Blas; but he has not the sneer
of the Frenchman, nor does he gild the bad. He has a touch of Bunyan, and, like that enthusiastic
tinker, hammers away, à la Gitano, whenever he thinks he can thwack the Devil or his man-of-all-work
on earth--the Pope. Therein he resembles my friend and everybody's friend--Punch--who, amidst
all his adventures, never spares the black one. However, I am not going to review him now;
for I know that Mr. Lockhart has expressed a wish that I should do it for the Quarterly Review.
Now, a wish from my liege master is a command. I had half engaged myself elsewhere, thinking
that he did not quite appreciate such a trump as I know Borrow to be. He is as full of meat
as an egg, and a fresh laid one--not one of your Inglis breed, long addled by over-bookmaking.
When you see Mr. Lockhart tell him that I will do the paper. I owe my entire allowance to the
Q. R. flag ... Perhaps my understanding the full force of this 'gratia' makes me over partial
to this wild Missionary; but I have ridden over the same tracks without the tracts, seen the
same people, and know that he is true, and I believe that he believes all that he writes to
be true."

Mr. Lockhart himself, however, wrote the review for the Quarterly (No. 141, December 1842).
It was a temptation that he could not resist, and his article was most interesting. "The Gypsies
in Spain" and "The Bible in Spain" went through many editions, and there is still a large demand
for both works. Before we leave George Borrow we will give a few extracts from his letters,
which, like his books, were short, abrupt, and graphic. He was asked to become a member of
the Royal Institution.

Mr. George Borrow to John Murray.

February 26, 1843.

"I should like to become a member. What would the Institution expect me to write? Or, won't
something about the ancient North and its literature be more acceptable? I have just received
an invitation to join the Ethnological Society (who are they?), which I have declined. A few
days ago one of them turned up again. I found it in my great-coat pocket, and thought of you.
I have seen the article in the Edinburgh about the Bible--exceedingly brilliant and clever,
but rather too epigrammatic, quotations scanty and not correct. Ford is certainly a most astonishing
fellow; he quite flabbergasts me--handbooks, review's, and I hear that he has just been writing
a 'Life of Velasquez' for the 'Penny Cyclopaedia'!"

OULTON HALL, LOWESTOFT, March 13, 1843.

"So the second edition is disposed of. Well and good. Now, my dear friend, have the kindness
to send me an account of the profits of it and let us come to a settlement. Up to the present
time do assure you I have not made a penny by writing, what with journeys to London and tarrying
there. Basta! I hate to talk of money matters. Occasionally I write a page or two of my life.
I am now getting my father into the Earl of Albemarle's regiment, in which he was captain for
many years. If I live, and my spirits keep up tolerably well, I hope that within a year I shall
be able to go to press with something which shall beat the 'Bible in Spain.'"

And a few days later:

"I have received your account for the two editions. I am perfectly satisfied. We will now,
whenever you please, bring out a third edition. I am now in a blacksmith's shop in the south
of Ireland taking lessons from the Vulcan in horse charming and horse-shoe making.

During the negotiations for the publication of Mr. Horace Twiss's "Life of the Earl of Eldon,"
Mr. Murray wrote to Mr. Twiss:

John Murray to Mr. Twiss.

May 11, 1842.

"I am very sorry to say that the publishing of books at this time involves nothing but loss,
and that I have found it absolutely necessary to withdraw from the printers every work that
I had in the press, and to return to the authors any MS. for which they required immediate
publication."

Mr. Murray nevertheless agreed to publish the "Life of Eldon" on commission, and it proved
very successful, going through several editions.

Another work offered to Mr. Murray in 1841 was "The Moor and the Loch," by John Colquhoun,
of Luss. He had published the first edition at Edinburgh through Mr. Blackwood; and, having
had some differences with that publisher, he now proposed to issue the second edition in London.
He wrote to Mr. Murray desiring him to undertake the work, and received the following reply:

John Murray to Mr. Colquhoun.

March 16, 1841.

SIR,

I should certainly have had much pleasure in being the original publisher of your very interesting
work "The Moor and the Loch," but I have a very great dislike to the appearance even of interfering
with any other publisher. Having glass windows, I must not throw stones. With Blackwood, indeed,
I have long had particular relations, and they for several years acted as my agents in Edinburgh;
so pray have the kindness to confide to me the cause of your misunderstanding with that house,
and let me have the satisfaction of at least trying in the first place to settle the matter
amicably. In any case, however, you may rely upon all my means to promote the success of your
work, the offer of which has made me, dear Sir,

Your obliged and faithful Servant,

JOHN MURRAY.

Mr. Colquhoun to John Murray.

March 20, 1841.

DEAR SIR,

I am much obliged by your note which I received yesterday. I shall endeavour to see you directly,
and when I explain the cause of my dissatisfaction with Messrs. Blackwood, I am sure you will
at once see that it would be impossible for us to go on comfortably together with my second
edition; and even if any adjustment was brought about, I feel convinced that the book would
suffer. I do not mean to imply anything against the Messrs. Blackwood as men of business, and
should be sorry to be thus understood; but this case has been a peculiar one, and requires
too long an explanation for a letter. In the meantime I have written to you under the strictest
confidence, as the Messrs. B. are not aware of my intention of bringing out a second edition
at the present time, or of my leaving them. My reasons, however, are such that my determination
cannot be altered; and I hope, after a full explanation with you, that we shall at once agree
to publish the book with the least possible delay. I shall be most happy to return your note,
which you may afterwards show to Messrs. B., and I may add that had you altogether refused
to publish my book, it could in no way have affected my decision of leaving them.

I remain, dear Sir, faithfully yours,

JOHN COLQUHOUN.

Mr. Colquhoun came up expressly to London, and after an interview with Mr. Murray, who again
expressed his willingness to mediate with the Edinburgh publishers, Mr. Colquhoun repeated
his final decision, and Mr. Murray at length agreed to publish the second edition of "The Moor
and the Loch." It may be added that in the end Mr. Colquhoun did, as urged by Murray, return
to the Blackwoods, who still continue to publish his work.

Allan Cunningham ended his literary life by preparing the "Memoirs" of his friend Sir David
Wilkie. Shortly before he undertook the work he had been prostrated by a stroke of paralysis,
but on his partial recovery he proceeded with the memoirs, and the enfeebling effects of his
attack may be traced in portions of the work. Towards the close of his life Wilkie had made
a journey to the East, had painted the Sultan at Constantinople, and afterwards made his way
to Smyrna, Rhodes, Beyrout, Jaffa, and Jerusalem. He returned through Egypt, and at Alexandria
he embarked on board the Oriental steamship for England. While at Alexandria, he had complained
of illness, which increased, partly in consequence of his intense sickness at sea, and he died
off Gibraltar on June 1, 1841, when his body was committed to the deep. Turner's splendid picture
of the scene was one of Wilkie's best memorials. A review of Allan Cunningham's work, by Mr.
Lockhart, appeared in the Quarterly, No. 144. Previous to its appearance he wrote to Mr. Murray
as follows:

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

February 25, 1843.

DEAR MURRAY,

I don't know if you have read much of "The Life of Wilkie." All Cunningham's part seems to
be wretched, but in the "Italian and Spanish Journals and Letters" Wilkie shines out in a comparatively
new character. He is a very eloquent and, I fancy, a deep and instructive critic on painting;
at all events, Vol. ii. is full of very high interest.... Is there anywhere a good criticism
on the alteration that Wilkie's style exhibited after his Italian and Spanish tours? The general
impression always was, and I suppose will always be, that the change was for the worse. But
it will be a nice piece of work to account for an unfortunate change being the result of travel
and observation, which we now own to have produced such a stock of admirable theoretical disquisition
on the principles of the Art. I can see little to admire or like in the man Wilkie. Some good
homely Scotch kindness for kith and kin, and for some old friends too perhaps; but generally
the character seems not to rise above the dull prudentialities of a decent man in awe of the
world and the great, and awfully careful about No. 1. No genuine enjoyment, save in study of
Art, and getting money through that study. He is a fellow that you can't suppose ever to have
been drunk or in love--too much a Presbyterian Elder for either you or me.

Mr. Murray received a communication (December 16, 1841), from Mr. John Sterling, Carlyle's
friend, with whom he had had transactions on his own account. "Not," he said, "respecting his
own literary affairs, but those of a friend." The friend was Mr. John Stuart Mill, son of the
historian of British India. He had completed his work on Logic, of which Mr. Sterling had the
highest opinion. He said it had been the "labour of many years of a singularly subtle, patient,
and comprehensive mind. It will be our chief speculative monument of this age." Mr. Mill himself
addressed Mr. Murray, first on December 20, 1841, while he was preparing the work for the press,
and again in January and February, 1842, when he had forwarded the MS. to the publisher, and
requested his decision. We find, however, that Mr. Murray was very ill at the time; that he
could not give the necessary attention to the subject; and that the MS. was eventually returned.

When Copyright became the subject of legislation in 1843, Mr. Murray received a letter from
Mr. Gladstone.

Mr. Gladstone to John Murray.

WHITEHALL, February 6, 1843.

MY DEAR SIR,

I beg leave to thank you for the information contained in and accompanying your note which
reached me on Saturday. The view with which the clauses relating to copyright in the Customs
Act were framed was that those interested in the exclusion of pirated works would take care
to supply the Board of Customs from time to time with lists of all works under copyright which
were at all likely to be reprinted abroad, and that this would render the law upon the whole
much more operative and more fair than an enormous catalogue of all the works entitled to the
privilege, of which it would be found very difficult for the officers at the ports to manage
the use.

Directions in conformity with the Acts of last Session will be sent to the Colonies.

But I cannot omit to state that I learn from your note with great satisfaction, that steps
are to be taken here to back the recent proceedings of the Legislature. I must not hesitate
to express my conviction that what Parliament has done will be fruitless, unless the law be
seconded by the adoption of such modes of publication, as will allow the public here and in
the colonies to obtain possession of new and popular English works at moderate prices. If it
be practicable for authors and publishers to make such arrangements, I should hope to see a
great extension of our book trade, as well as much advantage to literature, from the measures
that have now been taken and from those which I trust we shall be enabled to take in completion
of them; but unless the proceedings of the trade itself adapt and adjust themselves to the
altered circumstances, I can feel no doubt that we shall relapse into or towards the old state
of things; the law will be first evaded and then relaxed.

I am, my dear Sir,

Faithfully yours,

W.E. GLADSTONE.

Here it is fitting that a few paragraphs should be devoted to the closing years of Robert Southey,
who for so many years had been the friend and coadjutor of the publisher of the Quarterly.

Between 1808 and 1838, Southey had written ninety-four articles for the Quarterly; the last
was upon his friend Thomas Telford, the engineer, who left him a legacy. He had been returned
Member of Parliament for Downton (before the Reform Bill passed), but refused the honour--a
curious episode not often remembered in the career of this distinguished man of letters. When
about fifty-five years old, his only certain source of income was from his pension, from which
he received £145, and from his laureateship, which was £90. But the larger portion of these
sums went in payment for his life insurance, so that not more than £100 could be calculated
on as available. His works were not always profitable. In one year he only received £26 for
twenty-one of his books, published by Longman.

Murray gave him £1,000 for the copyright of the "Peninsular War"; but his "Book of the Church"
and his "Vindiciae" produced nothing.

Southey's chief means of support was the payments (generally £100 for each article) which he
received for his contributions to the Quarterly; but while recognizing this, as he could not
fail to do, as well as Murray's general kindness towards him, he occasionally allowed a vein
of discontent to show itself even in his acknowledgment of favours received.

In 1835 Southey received a pension of £300 from the Government of Sir Robert Peel. He was offered
a Baronetcy at the same time, but he declined it, as his circumstances did not permit him to
accept the honour.

Mr. Southey to John Murray.

June 17, 1835.

"What Sir Robert Peel has done for me will enable me, when my present engagements are completed,
to employ the remainder of my life upon those works for which inclination, peculiar circumstances,
and long preparation, have best qualified me. They are "The History of Portugal," "The History
of the Monastic Orders," and "The History of English Literature," from the time when Wharton
breaks off. The possibility of accomplishing three such works at my age could not be dreamt
of, if I had not made very considerable progress with one, and no little, though not in such
regular order, with the others."

Shortly after his second marriage, Southey's intellect began to fail him, and he soon sank
into a state of mental imbecility. He would wander about his library, take down a book, look
into it, and then put it back again, but was incapable of work. When Mr. Murray sent him the
octavo edition of the "Peninsular War," his wife answered:

Mrs. Southey to John Murray.

GRETA HALL, May 15, 1840.

If the word pleasure were not become to me as a dead letter, I should tell you with how much
I took possession of your kind gift. But I may tell you truly that it gratified, and more than
gratified me, by giving pleasure to my dear husband, as a token of your regard for him, so
testified towards myself. The time is not far passed when we should have rejoiced together
like children over such an acquisition.

Yours very truly and thankfully,

CAR. SOUTHEY.

May 23, 1840.

DEAR SIR,

Very cordially I return your friendly salutations, feeling, as I do, that every manifestation
of kindness for my husband's sake is more precious to me than any I could receive for my own
exclusively. Two-and-twenty years ago, when he wished to put into your hands, as publisher,
a first attempt of mine, of which he thought better than it deserved, he little thought in
that so doing he was endeavouring to forward the interests of his future wife; of her for whom
it was appointed (a sad but honoured lot) to be the companion of his later days, over which
it has pleased God to cast the "shadow before" of that "night in which no man can work." But
twelve short months ago he was cheerfully anticipating (in the bright buoyancy of his happy
nature) a far other companionship for the short remainder of our earthly sojourn; never forgetting,
however, that ours must be short at the longest, and that "in the midst of life we are in death."
He desires me to thank you for your kind expressions towards him, and to be most kindly remembered
to you. Your intimation of the favourable progress of his 8vo "Book of the Church" gave him
pleasure, and he thanks you for so promptly attending to his wishes about a neatly bound set
of his "Peninsular War." Accept my assurances of regard, and believe me to be, dear Sir,

Yours very truly,

CAROLINE SOUTHEY.

On September 17, 1840, Mr. Murray sent to Mr. Southey a draft for £259, being the balance for
his "Book of the Church," and informed him that he would be pleased to know that another edition
was called for. Mrs. Southey replied:

Mrs. Southey to John Murray.

"He made no remark on your request to be favoured with any suggestions he might have to offer.
My sad persuasion is that Robert Southey's works have received their last revision and correction
from his mind and pen."

GRETA HALL, October 5, 1840.

DEAR SIR,

I will not let another post go out, without conveying to you my thanks for your very kind letter
last night received. It will gratify you to know that its contents (the copy of the critique
included), aroused and fixed Mr. Southey's attention more than anything that has occurred for
months past--gratifying him, I believe, far more than anything more immediately concerning
himself could have done. "Tell Murray," he said, "I am very much obliged to him." It is long
since he has sent a message to friend or relation.

Now let me say for myself that I am very thankful to you--very thankful to my indulgent reviewer--and
that if I could yet feel interest about anything of my own writing, I should be pleased and
encouraged by his encomium--as well as grateful for it. But if it did not sound thanklessly,
I should say, "too late--too late--it comes too late!" and that bitter feeling came upon me
so suddenly, as my eyes fell upon the passage in question, that they overflowed with tears
before it was finished.

But he did take interest in it, at least for a few moments, and so it was not quite too late;
and (doing as I know he would have me), I shall act upon your most kind and friendly advice,
and transmit it to Blackwood, who will, I doubt not, be willingly guided by it.

It was one of my husband's pleasant visions before our marriage, and his favourite prospect,
to publish a volume of poetry conjointly with me, not weighing the disproportion of talent.

I must tell you that immediately on receiving the Review, I should have written to express
my sense of your kindness, and of the flattering nature of the critique; but happening to tell
Miss Southey and her brother that you had sent it me, as I believed, as an obliging personal
attention, they assured me I was mistaken, and that the numbers were only intended for "their
set." Fearing, therefore, to arrogate to myself more than was designed for me, I kept silence;
and now expose my simplicity rather than leave myself open to the imputation of unthankfulness.
Mr. Southey desires to be very kindly remembered to you, and I am, my dear Sir,

Very thankfully and truly yours, Car. Southey.

P.S.--I had almost forgotten to thank you for so kindly offering to send the Review to any
friends of mine, I may wish to gratify. I will accept the proffered favour, and ask you to
send one addressed to Miss Burnard, Shirley, Southampton, Hants. The other members of my family
and most of my friends take the Q.R., or are sure of seeing it. This last number is an excellent
one.

Southey died on March 21, 1843. The old circle of friends was being sadly diminished. "Disease
and death," his old friend Thomas Mitchell, one of the survivors of the early contributors
to the Quarterly, wrote to Murray, "seem to be making no small havoc among our literary men--Maginn,
Cunningham, Basil Hall, and poor Southey, worst of all. Lockhart's letters of late have made
me very uneasy, too, about him. Has he yet returned from Scotland, and is he at all improved?"
Only a few months later Mr. Murray himself was to be called away from the scene of his life's
activity. In the autumn of 1842 his health had already begun to fail rapidly, and he had found
it necessary to live much out of London, and to try various watering-places; but although he
rallied at times sufficiently to return to his business for short periods, he never recovered,
and passed away in sleep on June 27, 1843, at the age of sixty-five.

CHAPTER XXXII

JOHN MURRAY AS A PUBLISHER

In considering the career of John Murray, the reader can hardly fail to be struck with the
remarkable manner in which his personal qualities appeared to correspond with the circumstances
out of which he built his fortunes.

When he entered his profession, the standard of conduct in every department of life connected
with the publishing trade was determined by aristocratic ideas. The unwritten laws which regulated
the practice of bookselling in the eighteenth century were derived from the Stationers' Company.
Founded as it had been on the joint principles of commercial monopoly and State control, this
famous organization had long lost its old vitality. But it had bequeathed to the bookselling
community a large portion of its original spirit, both in the practice of cooperative publication
which produced the "Trade Books," so common in the last century, and in that deep-rooted belief
in the perpetuity of copyright, which only received its death-blow from the celebrated judgment
of the House of Lords in the case of Donaldson v. Becket in 1774. Narrow and exclusive as they
may have been in their relation to the public interest, there can be no doubt that these traditions
helped to constitute, in the dealings of the booksellers among themselves, a standard of honour
which put a certain curb on the pursuit of private gain. It was this feeling which provoked
such intense indignation in the trade against the publishers who took advantage of their strict
legal rights to invade what was generally regarded as the property of their brethren; while
the sense of what was due to the credit, as well as to the interest, of a great organized body,
made the associated booksellers zealous in the promotion of all enterprises likely to add to
the fame of English literature.

Again, there was something, in the best sense of the word, aristocratic in the position of
literature itself. Patronage, indeed, had declined. The patron of the early days of the century,
who, like Halifax, sought in the Universities or in the London Coffee-houses for literary talent
to strengthen the ranks of political party, had disappeared, together with the later and inferior
order of patron, who, after the manner of Bubb Dodington, nattered his social pride by maintaining
a retinue of poetical clients at his country seat. The nobility themselves, absorbed in politics
or pleasure, cared far less for letters than their fathers in the reigns of Anne and the first
two Georges. Hence, as Johnson said, the bookseller had become the Maecenas of the age; but
not the bookseller of Grub Street. To be a man of letters was no longer a reproach. Johnson
himself had been rewarded with a literary pension, and the names of almost all the distinguished
scholars of the latter part of the eighteenth century--Warburton, the two Wartons, Lowth, Burke,
Hume, Gibbon, Robertson--belong to men who either by birth or merit were in a position which
rendered them independent of literature as a source of livelihood. The author influenced the
public rather than the public the author, while the part of the bookseller was restricted to
introducing and distributing to society the works which the scholar had designed.

Naturally enough, from such conditions arose a highly aristocratic standard of taste. The centre
of literary judgment passed from the half-democratic society of the Coffee-house to the dining-room
of scholars like Cambridge or Beauclerk; and opinion, formed from the brilliant conversation
at such gatherings as the Literary Club; afterwards circulated among the public either in the
treatises of individual critics, or in the pages of the two leading Monthly Reviews. The society
from which it proceeded, though not in the strict sense of the word fashionable, was eminently
refined and widely representative; it included the politician, the clergyman, the artist, the
connoisseur, and was permeated with the necessary leaven of feminine intuition, ranging from
the observation of Miss Burney or the vivacity of Mrs. Thrale, to the stately morality of Mrs.
Montagu and Mrs. Hannah More.

On the other hand, the whole period of Murray's life as a publisher, extending, to speak broadly,
from the first French Revolution to almost the eve of the French Revolution of 1848, was characterized
in a marked degree by the advance of Democracy. In all directions there was an uprising of
the spirit of individual liberty against the prescriptions of established authority. In Politics
the tendency is apparent in the progress of the Reform movement. In Commerce it was marked
by the inauguration of the Free Trade movement. In Literature it made itself felt in the great
outburst of poetry at the beginning of the century, and in the assertion of the superiority
of individual genius to the traditional laws of form.

The effect produced by the working of the democratic spirit within the aristocratic constitution
of society and taste may without exaggeration be described as prodigious. At first sight, indeed,
there seems to be a certain abruptness in the transition from the highly organized society
represented in Boswell's "Life of Johnson," to the philosophical retirement of Wordsworth and
Coleridge. It is only when we look beneath the surface that we see the old traditions still
upheld by a small class of Conservative writers, including Campbell, Rogers, and Crabbe, and,
as far as style is concerned, by some of the romantic innovators, Byron, Scott, and Moore.
But, generally speaking, the age succeeding the first French Revolution exhibits the triumph
of individualism. Society itself is penetrated by new ideas; literature becomes fashionable;
men of position are no longer ashamed to be known as authors, nor women of distinction afraid
to welcome men of letters in their drawing-rooms. On all sides the excitement and curiosity
of the times is reflected in the demand for poems, novels, essays, travels, and every kind
of imaginative production, under the name of belles lettres.

A certain romantic spirit of enterprise shows itself in Murray's character at the very outset
of his career. Tied to a partner of a petty and timorous disposition, he seizes an early opportunity
to rid himself of the incubus. With youthful ardour he begs of a veteran author to be allowed
the privilege of publishing, as his first undertaking, a work which he himself genuinely admired.
He refuses to be bound by mere trading calculations. "The business of a publishing bookseller,"
he writes to a correspondent, "is not in his shop, or even in his connections, but in his brains."
In all his professional conduct a largeness of view is apparent. A new conception of the scope
of his trade seems early to have risen in his mind, and he was perhaps the first member of
the Stationers' craft to separate the business of bookselling from that of publishing. When
Constable in Edinburgh sent him "a miscellaneous order of books from London," he replied: "Country
orders are a branch of business which I have ever totally declined as incompatible with my
more serious plans as a publisher."

With ideas of this kind, it may readily be imagined that Murray was not what is usually called
"a good man of business," a fact of which he was well aware, as the following incident, which
occurred in his later years, amusingly indicates.

The head of one of the larger firms with which he dealt came in person to Albemarle Street
to receive payment of his account. This was duly handed to him in bills, which, by some carelessness,
he lost on his way home, He thereupon wrote to Mr. Murray, requesting him to advertise in his
own name for the lost property. Murray's reply was as follows:

TWICKENHAM, October 26, 1841.

MY DEAR-----,

I am exceedingly sorry for the vexatious, though, I hope, only temporary loss which you have
met with; but I have so little character for being a man of business, that if the bills were
advertised in my name it would be publicly confirming the suspicion--but in your own name,
it will be only considered as a very extraordinary circumstance, and I therefore give my impartial
opinion in favour of the latter mode. Remaining, my dear-----,

Most truly yours,

JOHN MURRAY.

The possession of ordinary commercial shrewdness, however, was by no means the quality most
essential for successful publishing at the beginning of the nineteenth century. Both Constable
and Ballantyne were men of great cleverness and aptitude for business; but, wanting certain
higher endowments, they were unable to resist the whirl of excitement accompanying an unprecedented
measure of financial success. Their ruin was as rapid as their rise. To Murray, on the other
hand, perhaps their inferior in the average arts of calculation, a vigorous native sense, tempering
a genuine enthusiasm for what was excellent in literature, gave precisely that mixture of dash
and steadiness which was needed to satisfy the complicated requirements of the public taste.

A high sense of rectitude is apparent in all his business transactions; and Charles Knight
did him no more than justice in saying that he had "left an example of talent and honourable
conduct which would long be a model for those who aim at distinction in the profession." He
would have nothing to do with what was poor and shabby. When it was suggested to him, as a
young publisher, that his former partner was ready to bear part of the risk in a contemplated
undertaking, he refused to associate his fortunes with a man who conducted his business on
methods that he did not approve. "I cannot allow my name to stand with his, because he undersells
all other publishers at the regular and advertised prices." Boundless as was his admiration
for the genius of Scott and Byron, he abandoned one of the most cherished objects of his ambition-to
be the publisher of new works by the author of "Waverley"--rather than involve himself further
in transactions which he foresaw must lead to discredit and disaster; and, at the risk of a
quarrel, strove to recall Byron to the ways of sound literature, when through his wayward genius
he seemed to be drifting into an unworthy course.

In the same way, when the disagreement between the firms of Constable and Longmans seemed likely
to turn to his own advantage, instead of making haste to seize the golden opportunity, he exerted
himself to effect a reconciliation between the disputants, by pointing out what he considered
the just and reasonable view of their mutual interests. The letters which, on this occasion,
he addressed respectively to Mr. A.G. Hunter, to the Constables, and to the Longmans, are models
of good sense and manly rectitude. Nor was his conduct to Constable, after the downfall of
the latter, less worthy of admiration. Deeply as Constable had injured him by the reckless
conduct of his business, Murray not only retained no ill-feeling against him, but, anxious
simply to help a brother in misfortune, resigned in his favour, in a manner full of the most
delicate consideration, his own claim to a valuable copyright. The same warmth of heart and
disinterested friendship appears in his efforts to re-establish the affairs of the Robinsons
after the failure of that firm. Yet, remarkable as he was for his loyalty to his comrades,
he was no less distinguished by his spirit and independence. No man without a very high sense
of justice and self-respect could have conducted a correspondence on a matter of business in
terms of such dignified propriety as Murray employed in addressing Benjamin Disraeli after
the collapse of the Representative. It is indeed a proof of power to appreciate character,
remarkable in so young a man, that Disraeli should, after all that had passed between them,
have approached Murray in his capacity of publisher with complete confidence. He knew that
he was dealing with a man at once shrewd and magnanimous, and he gave him credit for understanding
how to estimate his professional interest apart from his sense of private injury.

Perhaps his most distinguishing characteristic as a publisher was his unfeigned love of literature
for its own sake. His almost romantic admiration for genius and its productions raised him
above the atmosphere of petty calculation. Not unfrequently it of course led him into commercial
mistakes, and in his purchase of Crabbe's "Tales" he found to his cost that his enthusiastic
appreciation of that author's works and the magnificence of his dealings with him were not
the measure of the public taste. Yet disappointments of this kind in no way embittered his
temper, or affected the liberality with which he treated writers like Washington Irving, of
whose powers he had himself once formed a high conception. The mere love of money indeed was
never an absorbing motive in Murray's commercial career, otherwise it is certain that his course
in the suppression of Byron's Memoirs would have been something very different to that which
he actually pursued. On the perfect letter which he wrote to Scott, presenting him with his
fourth share in "Marmion," the best comment is the equally admirable letter in which Scott
returned his thanks. The grandeur--for that seems the appropriate word--of his dealings with
men of high genius, is seen in his payments to Byron, while his confidence in the solid value
of literary excellence appears from the fact that, when the Quarterly was not paying its expenses,
he gave Southey for his "Life of Nelson" double the usual rate of remuneration. No doubt his
lavish generosity was politic as well as splendid. This, and the prestige which he obtained
as Byron's publisher, naturally drew to him all that was vigorous and original in the intellect
of the day, so that there was a general desire among young authors to be introduced to the
public under his auspices. The relations between author and publisher which had prevailed in
the eighteenth century were, in his case, curiously inverted, and, in the place of a solitary
scholar like Johnson, surrounded by an association of booksellers, the drawing-room of Murray
now presented the remarkable spectacle of a single publisher acting as the centre of attraction
to a host of distinguished writers.

In Murray the spirit of the eighteenth century seemed to meet and harmonize with the spirit
of the nineteenth. Enthusiasm, daring, originality, and freedom from conventionality made him
eminently a man of his time, and, in a certain sense, he did as much as any of his contemporaries
to swell that movement in his profession towards complete individual liberty which had been
growing almost from the foundation of the Stationers' Company. On the other hand, in his temper,
taste, and general principles, he reflected the best and most ancient traditions of his craft.
Had his life been prolonged, he would have witnessed the disappearance in the trade of many
institutions which he reverenced and always sought to develop. Some of them, indeed, vanished
in his own life-time. The old association of booksellers, with its accompaniment of trade-books,
dwindled with the growth of the spirit of competition and the greater facility of communication,
so that, long before his death, the co-operation between the booksellers of London and Edinburgh
was no more than a memory. Another institution which had his warm support was the Sale dinner,
but this too has all but succumbed, of recent years, to the existing tendency for new and more
rapid methods of conducting business. The object of the Sale dinner was to induce the great
distributing houses and the retail booksellers to speculate, and buy an increased supply of
books on special terms. Speculation has now almost ceased in consequence of the enormous number
of books published, which makes it difficult for a bookseller to keep a large stock of any
single work, and renders the life of a new book so precarious that the demand for it may at
any moment come to a sudden stop.

The country booksellers--a class in which Murray was always deeply interested--are dying out.
Profits on books being cut down to a minimum, these tradesmen find it almost impossible to
live by the sale of books alone, and are forced to couple this with some other kind of business.

The apparent risk involved in Murray's extraordinary spirit of adventure was in reality diminished
by the many checks which in his day operated on competition, and by the high prices then paid
for ordinary books. Men were at that time in the habit of forming large private libraries,
and furnishing them with the sumptuous editions of travels and books of costly engraving issued
from Murray's press. The taste of the time has changed. Collections of books have been superseded,
as a fashion, by collections of pictures, and the circulating library encourages the habit
of reading books without buying them. Cheap bookselling, the characteristic of the age, has
been promoted by the removal of the tax on paper, and by the fact that paper can now be manufactured
out of refuse at a very low cost. This cheapness, the ideal condition for which Charles Knight
sighed, has been accompanied by a distinct deterioration in the taste and industry of the general
reader. The multiplication of reviews, magazines, manuals, and abstracts has impaired the love
of, and perhaps the capacity for, study, research, and scholarship on which the general quality
of literature must depend. Books, and even knowledge, like other commodities, may, in proportion
to the ease with which they are obtained, lose at once both their external value and their
intrinsic merit.

Murray's professional success is sufficient evidence of the extent of his intellectual powers.
The foregoing Memoir has confined itself almost exclusively to an account of his life as a
publisher, and it has been left to the reader's imagination to divine from a few glimpses how
much of this success was due to force of character and a rare combination of personal qualities.
A few concluding words on this point may not be inappropriate.

Quick-tempered and impulsive, he was at the same time warm-hearted and generous to a fault,
while a genuine sense of humour, which constantly shows itself in his letters, saved him many
a time from those troubles into which the hasty often fall. "I wish," wrote George Borrow,
within a short time of the publisher's death, "that all the world were as gay as he."

He was in some respects indolent, and not infrequently caused serious misunderstandings by
his neglect to answer letters; but when he did apply himself to work, he achieved results more
solid than most of his compeers. He had, moreover, a wonderful power of attraction, and both
in his conversation and correspondence possessed a gift of felicitous expression which rarely
failed to arouse a sympathetic response in those whom he addressed. Throughout "the trade"
he was beloved, and he rarely lost a friend among those who had come within his personal influence.

He was eager to look for, and quick to discern, any promise of talent in the young. "Every
one," he would say, "has a book in him, or her, if one only knew how to extract it," and many
was the time that he lent a helping hand to those who were first entering on a literary career.

To his remarkable powers as a host, the many descriptions of his dinner parties which have
been preserved amply testify; he was more than a mere entertainer, and took the utmost pains
so to combine and to place his guests as best to promote sympathetic conversation and the general
harmony of the gathering. Among the noted wits and talkers, moreover, who assembled round his
table he was fully able to hold his own in conversation and in repartee.

On one occasion Lady Bell was present at one of these parties, and wrote: "The talk was of
wit, and Moore gave specimens. Charles thought that our host Murray said the best things that
brilliant night."

Many of the friends whose names are most conspicuous in these pages had passed away before
him, but of those who remained there was scarcely one whose letters do not testify to the general
affection with which he was regarded. We give here one or two extracts from letters received
during his last illness.

Thomas Mitchell wrote to Mr. Murray's son:

"Give my most affectionate remembrances to your father. More than once I should have sunk under
the ills of life but for his kind support and countenance, and so I believe would many others
say besides myself. Be his maladies small or great, assure him that he has the earnest sympathies
of one who well knows and appreciates his sterling merits."

Sir Francis Palgrave, who had known Mr. Murray during the whole course of his career, wrote
to him affectionately of "the friendship and goodwill which," said he, "you have borne towards
me during a period of more than half my life. I am sure," he added, "as we grow older we find
day by day the impossibility of finding any equivalent for old friends." Sharon Turner also,
the historian, was most cordial in his letters.

"Our old friends," he said, "are dropping off so often that it becomes more and more pleasing
to know that some still survive whom we esteem and by whom we are not forgotten.... Certainly
we can look back on each other now for forty years, and I can do so as to you with great pleasure
and satisfaction, when, besides the grounds of private satisfaction and esteem, I think of
the many works of great benefit to society which you have been instrumental in publishing,
and in some instances of suggesting and causing. You have thus made your life serviceable to
the world as well as honourable to yourself.... You are frequently in my recollections, and
always with those feelings which accompanied our intercourse in our days of health and activity.
May every blessing accompany you and yours, both here and hereafter."

It was not only in England that his loss was felt, for the news of his death called forth many
tokens of respect and regard from beyond the seas, and we will close these remarks with two
typical extracts from the letters of American correspondents.

To Mr. Murray's son, Dr. Robinson of New York summed up his qualities in these words:

"I have deeply sympathised with the bereaved family at the tidings of the decease of one of
whom I have heard and read from childhood, and to whose kindness and friendship I had recently
been myself so much indebted. He has indeed left you a rich inheritance, not only by his successful
example in business and a wide circle of friends, but also in that good name which is better
than all riches. He lived in a fortunate period--his own name is inseparably connected with
one of the brightest eras of English literature--one, too, which, if not created, was yet developed
and fostered by his unparalleled enterprise and princely liberality. I counted it a high privilege
to be connected with him as a publisher, and shall rejoice in continuing the connection with
his son and successor."

Mrs. L.H. Sigourney wrote from Hartford, Connecticut, U.S.:

"Your father's death is a loss which is mourned on this side of the Atlantic. His powerful
agency on the patronage of a correct literature, which he was so well qualified to appreciate,
has rendered him a benefactor in that realm of intellect which binds men together in all ages,
however dissevered by political creed or local prejudice. His urbanity to strangers is treasured
with gratitude in many hearts. To me his personal kindness was so great that I deeply regretted
not having formed his acquaintance until just on the eve of my leaving London. But his parting
gifts are among the chief ornaments of my library, and his last letter, preserved as a sacred
autograph, expresses the kindness of a friend of long standing, and promises another 'more
at length,' which, unfortunately, I had never the happiness of receiving."

THE END

INDEX

Abercorn, Marq. and Marchioness of,
Allegra, death of; buried at Harrow,
Athenaeum Club,
Austen, Miss Jane, "Northanger
  Abbey,"; Novels published
  by Murray,
Austria, Empress of,

Baillie, Miss Joanna,
Ballantyne & Co. (John & James),
  bill transactions with Murray;
  partnership with
  Scott; proposed edition of
  "British Novelists,"; Works
  of De Foe; James B. meets
  Murray at Boroughbridge;
  appointed Edinburgh agents for
  Q.R.; views on Q.R.;
  close alliance with Murray;
  financial difficulties;
  breach with Murray; failure
  of Edinburgh Ann. Reg.;
  "Waverley,"; "Lord of the
  Isles,"; "Don Roderick,";
  Scott's proposed letters
  from the Continent; proposal
  to Murray and Blackwood
  about Scott's works; in
  debt to Scott; "Tales of
  my Landlord," "The Black
  Dwarf,"; bankruptcy;
  death of John Ballantyne,
Barker, Miss,
Barrow, Sir John, induced by
  Canning to write for Q. R.;
  visit to Gifford; consulted
  by Murray about voyages or
  travels; nicknamed "Chronometer"
  by B. Disraeli,
Bartholdy, Baron,
Barton, Bernard,
Basevi, junr., George,
Bastard, Capt.,
Beattie, Dr.,
Bedford, Grosvenor,
Bell, Lady,
Bell & Bradfute,
Bellenden, Mary,
Belzoni, Giovanni,
Berry, Miss, edits "Horace Walpole's
  Reminiscences,"
Blackwood, William, appointed
  Murray's Agent for Scotland;
  visits Murray; intimacy with
  Murray; early career;
  threatens Constable with proceedings
  for printing Byron's
  "Poems,"; refuses to sell
  "Don Juan,"; alliance and
  correspondence with Murray;
  Ballantyne's proposals
  about Scott's works; Blackwood's
  Magazine started;
  Murray's remonstrance about the
  personality of articles;
  Hazlitts libel action;
  interested with Murray in various
  works,
Blackwood's Magazine started
  (first called Edinburgh Magazine);
  article attacking
  Byron; "Ancient Chaldee
  MS.,"; "The Cockney
  School of Poetry,"; personality
  of articles,;
  "Hypocrisy Unveiled," etc.;
  Murray retires from--Cadell and
  Davies appointed London Agents
  for,
Blessington, Countess of, "Conversations
  with Lord Byron,"
Blewitt, Octavian,
Borrow, George,
  his youth;
  capacity for learning languages;
  appointed Agent to the Bible Society--Russia, Norway, Turkey and Spain,
  his translation of the Bible;
  called Lavengro,
  his splendid physique,
  "Gypsies of Spain,"
  "The Bible in Spain,"
  as a horse-breaker,
  remarks on Allan Cunningham's death,
  asked to become a member of the Royal Institution,
"Boswell's Johnson,"
  Croker's edition of,
Bray, Mrs.,
Brockedon, William,
  his portrait of the Countess Guiccioli,
  his help in Murray's Handbooks,
Brougham, Lord,
  his article in Ed. Rev. on Dr. Young's theory of light,
  Chairman of the Society for the diffusion of Useful Knowledge,
Broughton, Lord, see Hobhouse.
Buccleuch, Duke of,
  his present of a farm to James Hogg,
Butler, Charles,
  "Books on the R. Cath. Church,"
Burney, Dr.,
Buxton, Thos. Powell,
  "Slave Trade and its Remedy,"
Byron, Lord,
  first association and meeting with Murray,
  "Childe Harold,"
  presented to Prince Regent,
  friendship with Scott,
  "Giaour," "Bride of Abydos,"
  "Corsair,"
  "Ode to Napoleon,"
  "Lara,"
  marriage,
  meets Scott at Murray's house,
  remarks on Battle of Waterloo,
  portrait by Phillips,
  kindness to Maturin,
  dealings with Murray,
  residence in Piccadilly,
  pecuniary embarrassments,
  Murray's generous offer,
  Murray's remonstrance,
  "Siege of Corinth" and "Parisina,"
  separation from wife,
  sale of effects,
  "Sketch from Private Life,"
  leaves England,
  "Childe Harold" and "Prisoner of Chillon,"
  remarks on Scott's Review of "Childe Harold," Canto III.,
  "Manfred,"
  attack of fever at Venice,
  "Childe Harold," Canto IV.,
  visit from Hobhouse,
  his bust by Thorwaldsen,
  correspondence with Murray in 1817 to 1822,
  "Beppo,"
  Frere's "Whistlecraft,"
  at Venice,
  opinion of Southey,
  "Don Juan," Cantos I. and II.;
  Murray's suggestions as to,
  hatred of Romilly,
  "Letter of Julia,"
  "Mazeppa," "Ode to Venice,"
  Copyright of "Don Juan,"
  Countess Guiccioli: proposal to visit S. America,
  "Don Juan," Cantos III. and IV.,
  "Don Juan," Canto V.,
  Murray's refusal to publish further Cantos of "Don Juan,"
  "My boy Hobby O!"
  Hobhouse's anger,
  Whig Club at Cambridge,
  pamphlet on "Bowles' strictures,"
  "Sardanapalus,"
  "The Two Foscari," "Cain, a Mystery,"
  injunction in case of "Cain,"
  death and burial of Allegra,
  illness, and last letter to Murray,
  adopts Hato or Hatagée,
  the Suliotes incident,
  death: Murray's application for his burial in Westminster Abbey refused,
  Memoirs and Moore,
  destruction of Memoirs,
  agreement between Moore and Murray,
  Moore undertakes to write "Life,"
  Murray's negotiations with Moore as to "Life,"
  agreement as to "Life,"
  Vol. I. of "Life" published,
  Vol. Hon. J.C. (Lord
  Advocate),
Colquhoun, John, "The Moor and
  the Loch"; correspondence
  with Murray; dissatisfaction
  with Blackwood; visit to
  London and interview with
  Murray,
Constable, Archibald (Constable &
  Co.); Farmer's Magazine,
  Scots Magazine, Edinburgh
  Review; his partner,
  A.G. Hunter; appointed
  Murray's agent; "Sir Tristram"
  and "Lay of the Last
  Minstrel"; breach with
  Longman; injunction as to
  Edin. Rev. obtained by Longman;
  letter from Jeffrey;
  Murray's remonstrances as to
  drawing bills;
  establishes London House;
  breach with Murray;
  final breach with Murray;
  fresh alliance with Scott;
  Campbell's "Selections from the British Poets";
  Poems by Byron on his Domestic Circumstances;
  Mrs. Markham's "History of England";
  bankruptcy;
  renews friendship with Murray;
  death,
Cooper, James Fenimore,
Coplestone,
Copyright Bill, the, Mr. Gladstone's remarks on,
Coxe, Archdeacon,
Crabbe, "Tales of the Hall," and other poems,
Creech and Elliot
Croker, Crofton
Croker, John Wilson,
  visit to Prince Regent,
  portrait by Eddis,
  "Stories for Children on Hist. of England",
  on "Don Juan" and Byron,
  takes charge of Q.R. during Gifford's illness,
  views on the Monthly Register,
  edits Lady Hervey's Letters,
  opinion of the Waldegrave and Walpole Memoirs,
  edits the Suffolk Papers,
  edits Mrs. Delany's Letters,
  Lockhart's opinion of him,
  "Boswell's Johnson",
  opinion of Moore's "Life of Byron",
  Moore's "Life of Lord Fitzgerald"
Cumberland, Richard,
  "John de Lancaster"
Cumming, Thomas
Cunningham, Allan,
  "Paul Jones: a Romance",
  his death,
  "Memoirs of Sir D. Wilkie",
  Lockhart's article in Q.R. on the "Memoirs"
Cunningham, Rev. J.W.,
  and the burial of Allegra at Harrow
Cuthill

Dacre, Lady (Mrs. Wilmot)
Dagley (the engraver)
Dallas, Mr.
Davies, Annie,
  Gifford's housekeeper
Davy, Sir Humphry,
  "Salmonia, or Days of Fly-Fishing"
D'Haussez, Baron
Delany, Mrs.
De Quincy
De Staël, Madame,
  ordered to quit Paris,
  a frequenter of Murray's drawing-room
Disraeli, Benjamin,
  "Aylmer Papillon," "History of Paul Jones",
  correspondence with Murray,
  pamphlets on Mining Speculations,
  connection with Messrs. Powles,
  partner with Murray and Powles in Representative,
  letters to Murray on the Representative negotiations,
  description of York Cathedral,
  visits Lockhart,
  interview with Scott at Chiefswood,
  second visit to Scotland, and exertions on behalf of Representative
  drops his connection with Representative,
  "Vivian Grey" and "Contarini Fleming",
  renewal of correspondence with Murray,
  travels in Spain, etc.,
  Radical candidate for Wycombe,
  attended by Tita (Byron's Gondolier),
  "Gallomania",
  publishes reply to criticisms on "Gallomania"
D'Israeli, Isaac,
  "Curiosities of Literature",
  friendship with Murray,
  "Flim-Flams",
  birth of his son Benjamin,
  Murray's marriage-settlement,
  Trustee,
  advice about Q.R.,
  "Calamities of Authors",
  "Character of James I.",
  impromptu on Belzoni,
  meets Washington Irving at Murray's,
  consulted by Murray as to Representative,
  proposed pamphlet on his misunderstanding with Murray
D'Oyley, Rev. Dr.
Dudley, Lord,
  his "Letters"

Eastlake, Sir Charles L.,
  "Translation of Memoirs of the Carbonari",
  Mrs. Graham's interest in
Eaton, Mrs.
Ebrington, Lord
Edinburgh Annual Register
Edinburgh Magazine and Review
Edinburgh Review started,
  published by Murray,
  its great success,
  injunction obtained by Longman,
  Jeffrey, editor of,
  articles on "Marmion",
  on "Don Cevallos on the Occupation of Spain"
Eldon, Lord,
  on copyright of "Cain"
Elliot, Miss;
  marries John Murray II.
Elliot, Charles
Ellis, George; letters from
  Scott; friendship with
  Scott; contributes to Q.R.;
  constant critic of the Q. R.;
  article on Spain;
  on ponderous articles in Q.R.;
  advice as to punctuality in
  issuing Q. R.
Ellis, Sir Henry, "Embassy to China"
Emerson, friendship with Carlyle
Erskine, William
Everett, A.H.

Faber, Rev. G.S.
Falconer, William, "The Shipwreck";
  lost at sea
  "Family Library," works comprising
Fazakerly's interview with Napoleon
Ferriar, Dr., on "Apparitions"
Field, Barron
Ford's "Dramatic Works"
Ford, Richard, "Handbook to
  Spain"; opinion of
  Borrow
Foscolo, Ugo
Fraser, Rev. Alexander
Fraser, Mr., offers £150 for "Sartor
  Resartus"
Frere, John Hookham;
  Coleridge's opinion of;
  his marriage; "Whistle-craft"
Froissart

Galignani
Garden, Mrs., "Memorials of James Hogg"
Gifford, William, introduced to
  Murray; accepts editorship
  of Q. R.; advice from Scott
  on Q. R.; Southey and
  the Q. R.; unpunctuality as
  editor; at Ryde;
  George Canning and the Q. R.;
  Southey's "Life of Nelson";
  Miss A.T. Palmer's bribe;
  disagreement with Murray;
  wages war with Edin. Rev.;
  relations with Murray;
  opinion of Pillans; bad health;
  Murray's present;
  opinion of W.S. Landor;
  review of Ford's "Dramatic
  Works"; on Charles
  Lamb--his deep grief;
  opinion of "Childe Harold";
  illness and death of his
  housekeeper; opinion of
  Southey; memorial to his
  housekeeper; libellous attack
  on him; opinion of Miss
  Austen's novels; of Maturin;
  illness at Dover; Murray
  gives him a carriage;
  Byron's "unlordly scrape";
  edition of "Ben Jonson";
  illness; Croker
  akes charge of Q. R.;
  opinion of Milman's "Fall of
  Jerusalem"; letter to George
  Canning; resigns editorship;
  declines Oxford degree;
  his death and burial in
  Westminster Abbey; will;
  character; love for
  children; venomous attack
  upon him
Gladstone, Rt. Hon. W.E., Tory
  member for Newark; proposal
  to Murray about "Church
  and State"; visit to Holland;
  "Church and State" published,
  and "Church Principles";
  letter to Murray on Copyright
  Bill
Gleig, Rev. George
Glenbervie, Lord
Gooch, Dr., anecdote of Lord Nelson
Gordon, General Sir Robert
Graham, Mrs. (Lady Callcott);
  intimacy with Murray
Grahame's "British Georgies"
Grant, Sir Robert; his articles
  in Q.R. on "Character of the late
  C.J. Fox"
Greenfield
Guiccioli, Countess; Murray's
  kindness to; Brockedon's
  portrait of
Gurney, Joseph
Gurwood, Col., editor of Wellington
  "Despatches"

Haber, Baron de
Hall, Capt. Basil
Hall, Sir James,
Hall, S.C.,
Hallam, Henry,
  friendship with Murray,
  "Middle Ages,"
  "Constitutional History,"
Hamilton, Walter,
  "East India Gazetteer,"
  "Description of Hindostan and Adjacent Countries,"
Hamilton, Sir William,
"Handbooks," Murray's,
Hanson, Mr. (Byron's solicitor),
Hastings, Warren,
Hato, or Hatagée,
  Greek child adopted by Byron,
Hay, R.W.,
Hazlitt, William,
  his libellous pamphlet on Gifford,
  action for libel against Blackwood and Murray,
Heber, Bishop (Rev. Reginald),
Heber, Richard,
Hemans, Mrs.,
  "Records of Woman,"
Herschell, Sir John,
  on Dr. Young's theory of light,
Hervey, Lady,
  "Letters, etc.,"
Highley, Samuel,
Hoare, Prince,
  "Epochs of the Arts,"
Hobhouse, John Cam (Lord Broughton),
  "Journey through Albania, etc., with Lord Byron,"
  "Last Reign of Napoleon,"
  visits Byron at Venice,
  his inscription for Thorwaldsen's bust of Byron,
  on Byron's intention to visit S. America,
  imprisoned for breach of privilege,
  "My boy Hobby O!"--his account of the Whig Club at Cambridge,
  Byron's executor,
  anxiety about a complete edition of Byron's Works,
Hodgson, Rev. Francis,
Hogg, James,
  "Ettrick Shepherd,"
  "The Queen's Wake,"
  "The Pilgrims of the Sun,"
  correspondence with Murray,
  Duke of Buccleuch gives him a farm,
  supposed to be author of "Tales of my Landlord,"
  contributor to Blackwood's Magazine,
  said to be author of the "Chaldee Manuscript,"
  helped by Scott and Murray,
  "Jacobite Relics of Scotland,"
Holland, Lord,
  "Life of Lope de Vega and Inez de Castro,"
  on Napoleon's treatment at St. Helena,
  opinion of "Tales of my Landlord,"
  proposals to Murray about the Waldegrave and Walpole Memoirs,
Holland, Rev. W. (Canon of Chichester),
Hope, Thomas,
  "Anastasius, or Memoirs of a Modern Greek, etc.,"
Hoppner, Mr.,
Horton, Sir Robert Wilmot,
  letter from Murray with particulars of the destruction of
Byron's Memoirs,
Howard, Mrs.,
Hume, Joseph,
Hunt, John,
Hunt, Leigh,
  joint Editor of the Examiner,
  in gaol for libelling Prince Regent,
  correspondence with Murray about "Story of Rimini,"
  "Recollections of Lord Byron and some of his Contemporaries,"
Hunter, Alexander G.,
Hunter, Charles,
Hurst, Rohinson & Co.,

Inchbald, Mrs.,
Ireland, Dr. John (Dean of Westminster),
  proposed burial of Byron in the Abbey,
  Gifford's executor,
  Byron's statue,
Irving, Peter,
Irving, Washington,
  account of a dinner at Murray's,
  "Sketch Book,"
  "Bracebridge Hall,"
  letter from Murray as to Representative,

Jameson, Mrs.,
  "Guide to the Picture Galleries of London,"
Jeffrey, Francis,
  Editor of Edinburgh Review,
  opinion of Wordsworth, Southey, and Coleridge,
  Southey's opinion of him,
  "Don Cevallos on the Occupation of Spain,"
  party politics in Ed. Rev.,
  recommends Carlyle to Murray,
  his interview with Murray,
Jerdan, William
  his erroneous account in Literary Gazette of destruction
   of Byron's Memoirs,
  on Gifford,

Kean, Charles,
  in "Bertram,"
  in "Manuel,"
Keats' "Endymion" reviewed in Q.R.,
Kerr, William,
Kerr, Robert,
Kinnaird, Honble. Douglas, and "Childe Harold,"
  letter to Murray,
Kinneir, Macdonald, "Persia,"
Kingsburg, Miss Harriet (Mrs. Maturin),
Knight, Charles,
  "Library of Entertaining Knowledge,"
  remarks on Murray's honourable conduct,
Knight, H. Gally,

Lamb, Lady Caroline,
  "Glenarvon,"
  opinion of Byron's works,
  correspondence with Murray,
  "Penruddock,"
  "Ada Reis,"
Lamb, Charles,
Lamb, Honble. George,
Lamb, Honble. William (Lord Melbourne),
Lamennais' "Paroles d'un Croyant,"
Landor, W.S., "Remarks upon C.J. Fox's Memoirs,"
Lauderdale, Lord,
Lavater on Physiognomy,
Leigh, Honble. Augusta, her wish that Byron's Memoirs should be
  destroyed,
Levinge, Godfrey,
Leyden's "Africa,"
Lieven, Prince,
Lindo, Mr. and Mrs.,
Llandaff, Bishop of, "Lord Dudley's Letters,"
Lockhart, John, the "Littlejohn," to whom Scott's "Tales of a
Grandfather" were addressed,
Lockhart, John Gibson, contributor to Blackwood's Magazine,
  article on "The Cockney School of Poetry,"
  challenges the anonymous author of "Hypocrisy Unveiled, etc.,"
  called "M." by B. Disraeli,
  at Chiefswood,
  B. Disraeli's visit,
  editorship of Representative offered to him,
  Scott's opinion of him, 261, 273
  accepts editorship of Q.R.,
  his success as Editor of Q.R.,
  relations with Murray,
  opinion of Wordsworth's poems,
  visit to Brighton with Scott,
  interview with Duke of Wellington,
  at Abbotsford,
  Scott's death: writes his "Life,"
  remarks on Croker's edition of "Boswell's Johnson,"
  on Taylor's "Isaac Comnenus,"
  "Life of Napoleon,"
  opinion of early part of Moore's "Life of Byron,"
  opinion of "Contarini Fleming,"
  article on Borrow's "Bible in Spain,"
  on Wilkie,
  his illness,
Longman & Co.,
  breach with Constable,
  Murray's intervention,
  injunction as to Edin. Rev.,
  accept £1,000 for claim on Edin. Rev.,
  Coleridge's "Wallenstein,"
  offer to Campbell,
  Crabbe's poems declined,
  advertise an edition of Mrs. Rundell's "Domestic Cookery,"
  injunction granted to Murray,
  refuse to publish "Sartor Resartus,"
Longman, Thos., on the danger of reading in bed,
Lyndhurst, Lord,
Lyttelton, Lord, "Dialogues of the Dead," "History of King Henry II.,"

Maas, of Coblentz,
Macaulay, Lord, his articles in Edin. Rev., on Crokers's "Boswell's
Johnson,"
  Gladstone's "Church and State,"
Macirone, Col.
Mackay, the actor
Mackintosh, Sir James
Macleod, John,
  "Voyage of H.M.S. Alceste to Loochoo"
Macready, W.C.
Maginn, Dr.
Magnus, Samuel,
  his testimonial to Dean Milman
Mahon, Lord (Earl Stanhope)
Malcolm, Sir John
  "Sketch of the Sikhs"
Malthus,
  "Rent," "Corn-Laws," "Essay on Population"
Markham, Mrs.,
  "History of England"
Mason, Rev. William (T. Gray's executor)
  controversy with Murray
Maturin, Rev. Chas. Robert
  his early life and marriage; "The Fatal Revenge," "The Wild Irish
Boy," "The Milesian Chief," "Bertram"
  "Bertram" at Drury Lane
  "Manuel"
  his death
Maule, William
Mavrocordato, Prince
Mawman, Joseph
Medwin, Capt. Thomas,
  "Conversations of Lord Byron"
Melbourne, Lord (see Lamb)
Mémoires pour servir
Milbanke, Miss
Mill, James,
  "History of British India"
Mill, John Stuart
Miller, John
Miller, Robert
Miller, William,
  of Albemarle Street
Mills, James
Milman, Dean (Rev. H.H.)
  "Fall of Jerusalem"
  one of Murray's Historians
  "History of Christianity"
  "History of the Jews" received with disapprobation; his remarks
on Sharon Turner's Expostulation; testimonial from the Jews
  opinion of "Contarini Fleming"
Mirza, Abul Hassan,
  impressions of English Society
Mitchell, Thomas
  impressions of Ugo Foscolo
  opinion of Murray
Mitford,
  "History of Greece"
Monthly Register
Moore, Thomas
  opinion of "The Corsair"
  presented with Byron's Memoirs
  offers them to Longman
  accepted by Murray
  their destruction
  reconciled to Murray and undertakes "Life of Byron"
  his views on Cookery Books and on Mrs. Rundell's "Domestic
Cookery"
  agreement with Murray as to "Life of Byron," receives £3,000
from Murray for "Life"
  Lockhart's opinion of the "Life"
  Vol. I. of "Life" published
  Vol. II. of "Life" published; Mrs. Somerville's opinion of it
  "Thoughts on Editors"
  Murray's proposal as to a complete edition of Byron's works
Morgan, Lady
Morier, James,
  "Hajji Baba"
Morritt,
  of Rokeby Park
Murat, King of Naples
Murray, Sir George
Murray, Joe (Byron's Steward)
Murray I., John.
  1745-68--His birth and early years
  1768--Marriage and retirement from Royal Marines
    offers partnership to W. Falconer
    purchases W. Sandby's business
    early publications
  1769-70--Support from Sir R. Gordon and his old comrades
    money difficulties
    agents in Ireland and Scotland
  1771--Defence of Sir R. Gordon
  1777-78--Second marriage
    controversy with Rev. W. Mason
  1782-93--Paralytic stroke
    his son's education and character
    Dr. Johnson's funeral
    illness and death
Murray II., John
  called by Lord Byron "The Anax of Publishers,"
  nicknamed "The Emperor of the West,"
  1778-92--Birth,
   at Edinburgh High School,
   at school at Margate,
   at school at Gosport,
   sight of one eye destroyed,
  1793--At school at Kennington,
  1795--Enters his father's business firm of Murray & Highley,
  1802--Dissolves partnership with Highley and starts business
   alone,
  1803--Offers to publish Colman's Comedy "John Bull,"
   money difficulties,
   military duties,
   friendship with Isaac D'Israeli,
   Isaac D'Israeli's "Narrative Poems,"
   business transactions with Constable,
   appoints Constable his agent in Edinburgh;
   pushes sale of Edinburgh Review,
  1804--Birth of Benjamin Disraeli,
   takes Charles Hunter as apprentice,
  1805--Isaac D'Israeli's letters to him,
   attempts to reconcile Constable and Longman,
   expedition to Edinburgh,
   attachment to Miss Elliot,
  1806--The "Miniature" and Stratford Canning,
   introduced to George Canning,
   close attention to business,
   visits Edinburgh,
   engagement to Miss Elliot,
   financial position,
   appointed publisher of Edinburgh Review,
   Campbell's proposed Magazine and "Selection from British Poets,"
  1807--Marries Miss Elliot,
   I. D'Israeli one of his Trustees,
   friendship with Sharon Turner,
   injunction in the matter of the Edinburgh Review,
   remonstrates with Constable about drawing bills,
   breach with Constable,
   bill transactions with Ballantyne,
   writes to George Canning proposing a new Review,
  1808--"Marmion" and friendship with Scott,
   proposed edition of the "British Novelists,"
   De Foe's works,
   introduced to Gifford by Stratford Canning,
   visits Scott at Ashestiel,
   correspondence about Quarterly Review,
   Gifford accepts editorship,
   Missionary Reports and Southey's article in
   Q.R.,
   article on Spain for Q.R. by Canning, Gifford, and Ellis,
   correspondence with Mrs. Inchbald,
  1809--Meets Ballantyne at Boroughbridge,
   appoints Ballantyne Edinburgh publisher
   of Q.R.,
   Scott's Life of Swift,
   Q.R., No. 1 published,
   urges Scott to visit London,
   letter to Stratford Canning,
   exertions to procure contributors,
   Mrs. Rundell's "Domestic Cookery,"
   close alliance with Ballantyne,
   Grahame's "British Georgies" and Scott's "English Ministrelsy,"
   financial difficulties with Ballantyne,
   letter from Campbell on "Selection from British Poets,"
   Campbell's Gertrude of "Wyoming,"
  1810--Breach with Ballantyne,
   appoints W. Blackwood his agent in Scotland,
   Southey's "Life of Nelson,"
   money difficulties--Ballantyne's bills,
   transfers printing business,
   Constable's bills,
   decrease in circulation of Q.R.,
  1811--Relations with Gifford,
   improvement of Q.R.,
   generosity to Gifford,
   origin of his connection with Byron,
   "Childe Harold,"
  1812--Ballantyne's bills again,
   purchases stock of Miller,
    of Albemarle Street,
    removes to Albemarle Street,
    Constable's bills,
    final breach with Constable,
    complete success of Q.R.
    refuses "The Rejected Addresses,"
  1813--"The Giaour," and "The Bride of Abydos,"
    Sir J. Malcolm,
    I. D'Israeli's "Calamities of Authors,"
    Scott's bill transactions,
    Mme. de Staël at Albemarle Street,
    other books published by him during the year,
  1814--"The Corsair,"
    "Ode to Napoleon,"
    "Lara and Jacqueline,"
    Mrs. Murray's visit to Leith,
    letters to Mrs. Murray,
    visit from Blackwood,
    dines with I. D'Israeli,
    education of his son John,
    visit to D'Israeli at Brighton,
    description of Newstead Abbey,
    Byron's skull-cup,
    trip to Edinburgh,
    alliance with Blackwood,
    visit to Abbotsford,
    shares in Scott's "Don Roderick,"
    correspondence with Coleridge,
  1815--Drawing-room in Albemarle Street,
    Mme. de Staël,
    first meeting of Scott and Byron,
    Napoleon's escape from Elba,
    sends first news of Battle of Waterloo to Blackwood,
    literary parties,
    portraits of distinguished men,
    trip to Paris,
    Scott's proposed letters from the Continent,
    Napoleon's personal correspondence with crowned heads, etc., of
 Europe,
    publishes Miss Austen's "Emma,"
    begins to publish Malthus' works,
    correspondence with Leigh Hunt as to the "Story of Rimini,"
    correspondence with James Hogg,
    dealings with Byron,
    his liberal offer to Byron,
    "Siege of Corinth" and "Parisina,"
    remonstrates with Byron,
    correspondence with Blackwood,
    other books published by him during the year,
  1816--Kindness to Rev. C.R. Maturin,
    Coleridge's "Glycine: a Song," "Remorse," "Zapolya," "Christabel,"
and "Christmas Tale,"
    correspondence with Leigh Hunt,
    Gifford's illness,
    gives Gifford a carriage,
    entrusted with sale of Byron's books and furniture,
    buys some of Byron's books, the large screen (now at Albemarle
Street), and silver cup,
    Byron's "Sketch from Private Life,"
    Byron leaves England,
    "Childe Harold" and "The Prisoner of Chillon,"
    letter to Byron on the "Monody on Sheridan,"
    "Tales of my Landlord,"
    correspondence with Lady Byron and Lady C. Lamb,
    Ballantyne's proposal about Scott's works,
    his assistance to Hogg,
    other books published by him during the year,
  1817--Correspondence with Coleridge,
    Scott's review of "Childe Harold," Canto III.,
    letters from Lady C. Lamb,
    "Manfred,"
    "Manuscrit venu de Ste.
1825--Agreement and arrangements regarding proposed morning paper,
Representative,
   letters from B. Disraeli as to Representative,
   I. D'Israeli's views on the Representative,
   offers editorship of Representative to Lockhart;
   Scott's opinion of the scheme,
   secures foreign
    correspondents for Representative,
    bears the whole expense,
    appoints Lockhart Editor of Q.R. on Coleridge's resignation,
    letters to him from Scott on Lockhart's fitness for the Q.R.
editorship,
    letters from Lockhart,
    Hallam's "Constitutional History,"
    renews friendship with Constable after fifteen years' interval,
    other books published by him during the year,
  1826--Representative started--its utter failure,
    health breaks down,
    commercial crisis and failure of large publishing houses, Constable
 & Co., Ballantyne & Co., Hurst, Robinson & Co., and others,
    helps London publishers in their difficulties,
    Representative ceases to exist after career of six months,
    misunderstanding with I. D'Israeli,
    intimacy with Lockhart,
    Wordsworth's proposal to him,
  1827--Letter from his son describing Scott's acknowledgement of
the authorship of "Waverley Novels" at the Theatrical Fund dinner in
Edinburgh,
    Henry Taylor's "Isaac Comnenus,"
    buys all Byron's works,
  1828--Offers Scott £1,250 for copyright of "History of Scotland,"
    "Tales of a Grandfather,"
    Napier's "History of Peninsular War,"
    the "Wellington Despatches,"
    "Library of Entertaining Knowledge,"
    negotiations with Moore as to "Life of Byron,"
  1829--Resigns his share in "Marmion" to Scott,
    Croker's edition of "Boswell's Johnson,"
    "The Family Library,"
  1830--Milman's "History of the Jews,"
    Moore's "Life of Byron," Vol. I.,
    renewal of correspondence with B. Disraeli and negotiations with
him as to "Contarini Fleming: a Psychological Biography,"
  1831--Moore's "Life of Byron," Vol. II.,
    Moore's "Thoughts on Editors,"
    Thomas Carlyle recommended to him by Lord Jeffrey,
    "Sartor Resartus"--which he ultimately declines to publish,
  1832--Complete edition of Byron's works,
    correspondence with Benjamin Disraeli about "Gallomania,"
  1834--Dean of Westminster refuses his request that Thorwaldsen's
statue of Byron should be placed in Westminster Abbey,
  1836--The first Handbook to the Continent (Holland, Belgium, and
 North Germany), published,
  1837--Letter to Morning Chronicle on Napier's "History of the
Peninsular War,"
  1838--Mr. Gladstone's "Church and State,"
    T. Powell Buxton's "Slave Trade and its Remedy,"
    Handbook to Switzerland,
  1839--Handbook to Norway, Sweden, and Denmark,
  1840--Mrs. Jameson and her "Guide to the Picture Galleries of
London,"
    Handbook to the East,
    George Borrow,
    Borrow's "Gypsies of Spain,"
    Southey's death,
  1841--Bishop of Llandaff and "Lord Dudley's Letters,"
    correspondence with John Colquhoun on "The Moor and the Loch,"
  1842--Handbook to Italy,
    letters from George Borrow,
    "The Bible in Spain" published,
    Horace
 Horace Twiss's "Life of Lord Eldon,"
  his illness,
 1843--In constant communication with Sir Robert Peel,
   many of whose speeches, etc., he published,
  Richard Ford's Handbook of Spain,
  Mr. Gladstone on the Copyright Bill,
  his failing health and death,
  his dinner-parties an institution,
  tokens of respect from all parts--extracts from letters
   of sympathy from the Americans, Dr. Robinson and Mrs.
   L.H. Sigourney,
Murray, III., John, a reader for the press at six years
  old,
  recollections of Scott and Byron at Albemarle Street,
  present at the destruction of Byron's Memoirs,
  letter from R.W. Hay on the anonymous attack on Gifford's
   memory,
  present at the Theatrical Fund Dinner in Edinburgh when
   Scott declared himself the author of the "Waverley Novels,"
  the originator and author of the "Guides,"
  extract from his article in Murray's Magazine on the
   "Handbooks,"

Napier, Macvey,
Napier, Col. W., "History of the Peninsular War,"
  at Strathfieldsaye with Duke of Wellington,
  negotiations with Murray,
Napoleon Buonaparte, escapes from Elba,
  private correspondence with crowned heads, etc., of
   Europe declined by Murray,
Nelson, Lord, anecdote of,
Newton (the artist),
Nugent's "Memorials of Hampden,"

Oliver & Boyd,
Orloff, Count,
Ouseley, Sir Gore,
Owen, Robert,
  his "New View of Society,"

Paget, Lieut. Henry (Murray's stepfather),
Palgrave, Sir Francis, Murray's Guide to Northern Italy,
  on Murray's friendship,
Palmer, Miss Alicia T.,
Parish, H.,
Paul, Emperor, proposal to assist Napoleon in turning
  English out of India,
Paxton, Dr. G.A.,
Peel, Sir Robert, on Byron,
  publishes his speeches, etc.,
Perry, James, Independent Gazette,
Phillips, Sir Richard, 17
  "Waverley" offered to, 97
Phillips, Thomas, his portraits,
Phillpotts, Rev. Dr. Henry (Bishop of Exeter),
Pillans, Mr.,
Pindar, Peter,
Pitcairn's "Criminal Trials of Scotland,"
Polidori, Dr.,
Powles, J.D.,
Pringle, Thomas, Editor of Blackwood's Magazine,
Proctor, John,

