  The Echidna made answer, "My merry young friend,
    If your own comic nose you could see,
  Like a juvenile shovel exceedingly flat,
    I am sure you'd stop laughing at me;
  For perfectly lovely, beside it, is mine.
    Ho! ho! and haw! haw! and he! he!"

A PERSONATION: WHO AM I?

There have been few people more written about, and yet there is very little known of me. I
wish I had known, during my life, that I was to become so famous, for I might have taken pains
to leave accurate accounts of myself. I wrote a great deal, yet there is much discussion even
over my signature. I was born and brought up in the country, as you can easily judge from the
many allusions to country pleasures and sights in my works. My parents were poor, and I had
to depend on myself; and when still young decided to go to London--many say because I could
not live happily with my wife, whom I had married when but eighteen. I sought and found employment
in London in the theatres. I was anxious to return home (which I had left a poor lad) a rich
man; so I worked early and late, and about twelve years after leaving home was able to buy
one of the best houses in my native place. It has always been supposed I did not like my wife
very much, because in my will I left her only my "second-best bed"; but then people forget
that she also had her dower. I wrote over thirty-seven books, though some of the writings attributed
to me are not mine, and scholars will dispute about me probably to the end of time.

Except that I was born, married, went to London, wrote, returned home, made a will, and died,
there is nothing certainly known about me: everything else is conjecture, for, alas! I had
no Boswell. My books have been translated into all civilized tongues, my sayings are as familiar
in men's mouths "as household words," and though about me the world may know little, no one
can be considered well educated who is not conversant with my books.

I forgot to tell you I was born on the 23d of April, 1564, and died on the 23d of April, 1616--not
an old man, you see, to have gained such fame; yet every year many pilgrims visit my birth-place
and my grave, the epitaph on which has alone enabled me to lie quietly in the country church-yard,
for many would like to see me in Westminster Abbey, where there is a fine monument to me.

THE ABSURD PENGUIN PUZZLE.

This Puzzle appeared in No. 25, page 344. It was, with two straight cuts of the scissors, to
change the fish, Fig. 1, into an absurd penguin catching a herring, as is shown in Fig. 2.

       *       *       *       *       *

=A Spider's Instinct.=--Spiders crawling more abundantly and conspicuously than usual upon
the in-door walls of houses foretell the near approach of rain; but the following anecdote
shows that some of their habits are the equally certain indication of frost being at hand.
Quartermaster Disjouval, seeking to beguile the tedium of his eight years of prison life at
Utrecht, had studied attentively the habits of the spider. In December of 1794 the French army,
on whose success his restoration to liberty depended, was in Holland, and victory seemed certain
if the frost, then of unprecedented severity, continued. The Dutch Envoy had failed to negotiate
a peace, and Holland was despairing, when the frost suddenly broke. The Dutch were now exulting,
and the French Generals prepared to retreat; but the spider warned Disjouval that the thaw
would be of short duration. He contrived to communicate with the army of his countrymen, and
its Generals relied upon his assurance that within a few days the water would again be passable
by troops. They delayed their retreat. Within twelve days the frost had returned, and the French
army triumphed.