An argument from the amount of imports is made use of unfairly. The United States are set down
at 30s. per head, Australia about L.7 per head. This latter, they say, is the country to encourage,
to emigrate to--see how prosperous it is! being blind, apparently, to the fact, that Australia,
having nothing as yet but the raw material, tallow and wool, it must barter all it has for
what it wants--a proof to me as much of necessity as of prosperity. Many more persons cannot
engage profitably in the wool and tallow trade; the field is therefore narrow for general purposes
of emigrants, and easily liable to be overstocked, unless the government take prompt measures
to open out the abundant internal resources of minerals, &c. and give easier and cheaper possession
of land: then, though the imports might not be much more, the prosperity would be much greater.
America I believe to be in this latter position, presenting a more varied field for the operations
of the small capitalist, though her imports may be inconsiderable per head.

I ought to state, that a great many of the reported cases of success are, from misapprehension
of the real circumstances of the parties, either quite false, or calculated to mislead. Doubtless
many successful hits will be made by purchasers of mineral land, and so are successful hits
made at the gaming-table. Successful men, besides, are well known, while the unsuccessful have
slunk away and are forgotten. Few fortunes have been made by simple shopkeeping.

I ought not to conclude without referring to farming, although not practically acquainted with
it; indeed, the accounts from farmers differ as much as the size and shape of their farms:
but it appears to me that, from one or other of the following causes, farming has not hitherto
paid well:--A large farm has been purchased, leaving too little cash to spare for the erection
of houses, fences, and cultivation; or leaving it burdened with a mortgage at heavy interest;
or a short lease--of three years--has been taken, and the money sunk on the improvements; or
the cultivation has been of such a wretched description as failed to raise a remunerative crop.
There never appears to have been a want of sufficient market for any field-produce. L.1000
judiciously invested on a farm, I believe, would pay.

I trust it will be seen that my object in writing the foregoing has been to guard against the
pictures of climate and scenery, good or bad, that are constantly written; to shew that plenty
of employment at a remunerative wage is to be had, but only of the heavy and laborious kind;
that there is a wide field for capitalists; but that shopkeepers and townspeople, unused to
out-door labour, have a poor chance, owing to the smallness of the population and the competition
which already exists.

GROUND-LIZARD OF JAMAICA.

One feature with which a stranger cannot fail to be struck on his arrival in the island, and
which is essentially tropical, is the abundance of the lizards that everywhere meet his eye.
As soon as ever he sets foot on the beach, the rustlings among the dry leaves, and the dartings
hither and thither among the spiny bushes that fringe the shore, arrest his attention; and
he sees on every hand the beautifully coloured and meek-faced ground-lizard (Ameiva dorsalis),
scratching like a bird among the sand, or peering at him from beneath the shadow of a great
leaf, or creeping stealthily along with its chin and belly upon the earth, or shooting over
the turf with such a rapidity that it seems to fly rather than run. By the road-sides, and
in the open pastures, and in the provision-grounds of the negroes, still he sees this elegant
and agile lizard; and his prejudices against the reptile races must be inveterate indeed if
he can behold its gentle countenance, and timid but bright eyes, its chaste but beautiful hues,
its graceful form and action, and its bird-like motions, with any other feeling than admiration.

As he walks along the roads and lanes that divide the properties, he will perceive at every
turn the smooth and trim little figure of the wood-slaves (Mabouya agilis) basking on the loose
stones of the dry walls; their glossy, fish-like scales glistening in the sun with metallic
brilliancy. They lie as still as if asleep; but on the intruder's approach, they are ready
in a moment to dart into the crevices of the stones and disappear until the danger is past.

If he looks into the outbuildings of the estates, the mill-house, or the boiling-house, or
the cattle-sheds, a singular croaking sound above his head causes him to look up; and then
he sees clinging to the rafters, or crawling sluggishly along with the back downward, three
or four lizards, of form, colour, and action very diverse from those he has seen before. It
is the gecko or croaking lizard (Thecodactylus loevis), a nocturnal animal in its chief activity,
but always to be seen in these places or in hollow trees even by day. Its appearance is repulsive,
I allow, but its reputation for venom is libellous and groundless.

The stranger walks into the dwelling-house: lizards, lizards, still meet his eye. The little
anoles (A. iodurus, A. opalinus, &c.) are chasing each other in and out between the jalousies,
now stopping to protrude from the throat a broad disk of brilliant colour, crimson or orange,
like the petal of a flower, then withdrawing it, and again displaying it in coquettish play.
Then one leaps a yard or two through the air, and alights on the back of his playfellow; and
both struggle and twist about in unimaginable contortions. Another is running up and down on
the plastered wall, catching the ants as they roam in black lines over its whited surface;
and another leaps from the top of some piece of furniture upon the back of the visitor's chair,
and scampers nimbly along the collar of his coat. It jumps on the table--can it be the same?
An instant ago it was of the most beautiful golden green, except the base of the tail, which
was of a soft, light, purple hue; now, as if changed by an enchanter's wand, it is of a sordid,
sooty brown all over, and becomes momentarily darker and darker, or mottled with dark and pale
patches of a most unpleasing aspect. Presently, however, the mental emotion, what, ever it
was--anger, or fear, or dislike--has passed away, and the lovely green hue sparkles in the
glancing sunlight as before.

He lifts the window-sash; and instantly there run out on the sill two or three minute lizards
of a new kind, allied to the gecko, the common palette-tip (Sphoeriodactylus argus.) It is
scarcely more than two inches long, more nimble than fleet in its movement, and not very attractive.

In the woods he would meet with other kinds. On the trunks of the trees he might frequently
see the Venus (Dactyloa Edwardsii), as it is provincially called; a lizard much like the anoles
of the houses, of a rich grass-green colour, with orange throat-disk, but much larger and fiercer;
or, in the eastern parts of the island, the great iguana (Cyclura lophoma), with it dorsal
crest like the teeth of a saw running down all its back, might be seen lying out on the branches
of the trees, or playing bo-peep from a hole in the trunk; or, in the swamps and morasses of
Westmoreland, the yellow galliwasp (Celestus occiduus), so much dreaded and abhorred, yet without
reason, might be observed sitting idly in the mouth of its burrow, or feeding on the wild fruits
and marshy plants that constitute its food.--Gosse's Naturalist's Sojourn.

A SCENE IN NEW ENGLAND.

I leave Boston sometimes in the evening by rail, get thirty miles off, then strike away into
byways, ramble for an hour or two, and get back to the rail. I was out yesterday, and nothing
can equal the colour of the foliage: if it was painted, it would look like fancy. In the course
of my stroll, I came upon a lake entirely surrounded with forest, and containing, as I was
informed, about four square miles of water, studded with islands varying in size from one to
twenty acres. I would describe a point of view which enchanted me. I was on one side of the
lake, where it is about half a mile in width: about half-way across, for the foreground of
my picture, is a small island, about two acres, covered with trees, looking as if they grew
out of the lake, with a central one of at least eighty feet high, and of the purest orange
colour. The opposite shore is of a crescent shape, with the forest rising like an amphitheatre
behind, glowing with every imaginable colour, from the intense crimson to the pale pink, and
looking exactly like an enormous flower-garden stretching away to the distance, and the colour
so strongly reflected in the water, that it is difficult to tell the reality from the reflection.
At home in England, I would have gone far to see such scenes; but they are here at every turn.
I enclose you some leaves, but the purity of the colour is gone after a few hours. I am sure
many valuable additions might be made to the European stock of flowers: there are thousands
of species--some extremely beautiful; but how they are propagated, or whether they could be
transplanted, I cannot tell, being no horticulturist. Among the millions here, one plant would
be much admired with you. It grows wild about three feet high, with long, curiously-formed
leaves, and surmounted by bunches of bright scarlet blossoms, exactly like the geranium. In
the course of my stroll, I came upon a genuine shanty of a new settler, full of fine children.
The husband away at work--a little patch cleared for Indian corn and a few vegetables, the
sturdy trees enclosing all. Truly the pair have their work before them, but they have likewise
hope and comfort. I chatted a little while with the wife, a genuine specimen of the Anglo-Saxon
race--clean, industrious, and hopeful: left home to avoid being starved, and sat down here,
in rude comfort, with her ruddy children growing up about her--to be a joy and a support, instead
of the drag and vexation they would have proved at home.--Private Letter from an English Artist
settled at Boston.

WOMEN.

Christianity freed woman, because it opened to her the long-closed world of spiritual knowledge.
Sublime and speculative theories, hitherto confined to the few, became, when once they were
quickened by faith, things for which thousands were eager to die. Simple women meditated in
their homes on questions which had long troubled philosophers in the groves of academies. They
knew this well; and felt that from her who had sat at the feet of the Master, listening to
the divine teaching, down to the poorest slave who heard the tidings of spiritual liberty,
they had all become daughters of a great and immortal faith. Of that faith women were the earliest
adherents, disciples, and martyrs. Women followed Jesus, entertained the wandering apostles,
worshipped in the catacombs, or died in the arena. The Acts of the Apostles bear record to
the charity of Dorcas and the hospitality of Lydia; and tradition has preserved the memory
of Praxedes and Pudentiana, daughters of a Roman senator, in whose house the earliest Christian
meetings were held in Rome.--Women of Christianity, by Julia Kavanagh.

'WHARE'ER THERE'S A WILL THERE IS ALWAYS A WAY.'

    Langsyne, when I first gaed to schule, I was glaiket,
    In books and in learning nae pleasure had I;
    And when for my fauts wi' the taws I was paiket,
    'I canna do better,' was aye my reply.
    'Deed Rab,' quo my mither, 'for daffn' and playin'
    There 's nocht ye can manage by nicht or by day;
    But this let me tell ye, and mind what I'm sayin'--
    Whare'er there's a will there is always a way.

    'Just look at our preacher, when but a bit callan,
    The ills o' cauld poortith he aft had to dree,
    But to better his lot the poor chiel aye was willin'--
    At schule and at wark ever eident was he:
    Sage books he wad read, and their truths he wad cherish,
    And earnestly sprauchle up learning's steep brae;
    And noo he's Mess John o' his ain native parish--
    Sae whare there's a will there is always a way.

    'And man, if ye saw how his manse is bedecket!
    Ilk room's like a palace, it's plenished sae fine;
    And then wi' the best in the land he's respecket,
    And aft wi' My Lord is invited to dine.
    O Rab, then, be active; frae him tak' example;
    His case speaks mair powerfu' than ocht I can say;
    And soon ye will find that your talents are ample;
    For whare there's a will there is always a way.

    'What though we are cotters?--the poorest may flourish,
    And wha wadna rise wi' the glorious few?
    Industry works wonders--its spirit aye nourish--
    It isna the drone gathers hinney, I trew.
    Then onward, my laddie! ye canna regret it;
    What wrecks and what tears have been caused by delay!
    If noble your wish is, press on, ye will get it!
    For whare there's a will there is always a way.'

    Thus spak my auld mither: ilk word seemed a sermon,
    But just rather warldly, as ane micht alloo;
    But, haith, it inspired me, and made me determine
    To haud to the lair and keep progress in view.
    Sae I tried ilka project instruction to gather:
    When herdin' the sheep for our laird, Ringan Gray,
    The Bible and Bunyan, I read 'mang the heather--
    Aye whare there's a will there is always a way.

    But my father he dee'd, and to help my auld mither
    I noo had to struggle wi' hardship and care;
    And aften I thocht I wad stick a'thegither,
    But something within me said: 'Never despair!'
    At last I grew bein, for I toiled late and early,
    Syne to College I gaed, and was made a D.D.
    And noo I'm Mess John in the Kirk o' Glenfairly--
    Sae whare there's a will there is always a way.

    The manse--but I shouldna wi' vainity crack o't--
    Is as cozie a beil as a body could see;
    Hauf-hid 'mang auld trees, wi' braw parks at the back o't,
    Whare lambs, 'mang the gowans, are sporting wi' glee.
    I've got a bit wife too, a rich winsome lady--
    In short, I hae a' that a mortal could hae:
    Sae onward, ye youths! as my auld mither said aye--
    Whare'er there's a will there is always a way.
                                                A. M'KAY.