But her hesitation was only for an instant. One full look into the gentle face that was so
marked by the years of uncomplaining disappointment and patient unhappiness and Mary knew that
in the heart of John Ward's mother the separation had brought no change. In the arms of her
own mother's dearest friend the young woman found, even as a child, the love she needed to
sustain her in that hour.

When they entered the room where Captain Charlie lay unconscious, Helen rose from her watch
beside the bed and held out her hands to her girlhood playmate. And in her gesture there was
a full surrender--a plea for pardon. Humbly she offered--lovingly she invited--while she held
her place beside the man who was slowly passing into that shadow where all class forms are
lost, as if she claimed the right before a court higher than the petty courts of human customs.
No word was spoken--no word was needed. The daughter of Peter Martin and the daughter of Adam
Ward knew that the bond of their sisterhood was sealed.

In that wretched home in the Flats, little Maggie Whaley smiled in her sleep as she dreamed
of her princess lady.

The armed guards at their stations around McIver's dark and silent factory kept their watch.

The Mill, under the cloud of smoke, sang the deep-voiced song of its industry as the night
shift carried on.

In the room back of the pool hall, Jake Vodell whispered with two of his disciples.

In the window of the Interpreter's hut on the cliff a lamp gleamed starlike above the darkness
below.

CHAPTER XXVI

AT THE CALL OF THE WHISTLE

Everywhere in Millsburgh the shooting of Captain Charlie was the one topic of conversation.
As the patrons of the cigar stand came and went they talked with the philosopher of nothing
else. The dry-goods pessimist delivered his dark predictions to a group of his fellow citizens
and listened with grave shakes of his head to the counter opinions of the real-estate agent.
The grocer questioned the garage man and the lawyer discussed the known details of the tragedy
with the postmaster, the hotel keeper and the politician. The barber asked the banker for his
views and reviewed the financier's opinion to the judge while a farmer and a preacher listened.
The milliner told her customers about it and the stenographer discussed it with the bookkeeper.
In the homes, on the streets, and, later in the day, throughout the country, the shock of the
crime was felt.

Meanwhile, the efforts of the police to find the assassin were fruitless. The most careful
search revealed nothing in the nature of a clew.

Millsburgh had been very proud of Captain Martin and the honors he had won in France, as Millsburgh
was proud of Adam Ward and his success--only with a different pride. The people had known Charlie
from his birth, as they had known his father and mother all their years. There had been nothing
in the young workman's life--as every one remarked--to lead to such an end.

It is doubtful if in the entire community there was a single soul that did not secretly or
openly think of the tragedy as being in some dark way an outcome of the strike. And, gradually,
as the day passed, the conjectures, opinions and views crystallized into two opposing theories--each
with its natural advocates.

One division of the people held that the deed was committed by some one of Jake Vodell's followers,
because of the workman's known opposition to a sympathetic strike of the Mill workers' union.
Captain Charlie's leadership of the Mill men was recognized by all, and it was conceded generally
that it was his active influence, guided by the Interpreter's counsel, that was keeping John
Ward's employees at work. Without the assistance of the Mill men the strike leader could not
hope for victory. With Captain Charlie's personal influence no longer a factor, it was thought
that the agitator might win the majority of the Mill workers and so force the union into line
with the strikers.

This opinion was held by many of the business men and by the more thoughtful members of the
unions, who had watched with grave apprehension the increasing bitterness of the agitator's
hatred of Captain Charlie, because of the workman's successful opposition to his schemes.

The opposing theory, which was skillfully advanced by Jake Vodell himself and fostered by his
followers, was that the mysterious assassin was an agent of McIver's and that the deed was
committed for the very purpose of charging the strikers with the crime and thus turning public
sympathy against them.

This view, so plausible to the minds of the strikers, prepared, as they were, by hardship and
suffering, found many champions among the Mill men themselves. Not a few of those who had stood
with Charlie in his opposition to the agitator and against their union joining the strike now
spoke openly with bitter feeling against the employer class. The weeks of agitation--the constant
pounding of Vodell's arguments--the steady fire of his oratory and the continual appeal to
their class loyalty made it easy for them to stand with their fellow workmen, now that the
issue was being so clearly forced.

So the lines of the industrial battle were drawn closer--the opposing forces were massed in
more definite formation--the feeling was more intense and bitter. In the gloom and hush of
the impending desperate struggle that was forced upon it by the emissary of an alien organization,
this little American city waited the coming of the dark messenger to Captain Charlie. It was
felt by all alike that the workman's death would precipitate the crisis.

And through it all the question most often asked was this, "Why was the workman, Charlie Martin,
at the gate to Adam Ward's estate at that hour of the night?"

To this question no one ventured even the suggestion of a satisfactory answer.

All that long day Helen kept her watch beside the wounded man. Others were there in the room
with her, but she seemed unconscious of their presence. She made no attempt, now, to hide her
love. There was no pretense--no evasion. Openly, before them all, she silently acknowledged
him--her man--and to his claim upon her surrendered herself without reserve.

James McIver called but she would not see him.

When they urged her to retire and rest, she answered always with the same words: "I must be
here when he awakens--I must."

And they, loving her, understood.

It was as if the assassin's hand had torn aside the curtain of material circumstances and revealed
suddenly the realities of their inner lives. They realized now that this man, who had in their
old-house days won the first woman love of his girl playmate, had held that love against all
the outward changes that had taken her from him. John and his mother knew, now, why Helen had
never said "Yes" to Jim McIver. Peter Martin and Mary knew why, in Captain Charlie's heart,
there had seemed to be no place for any woman save his sister.

At intervals the man on the bed moved uneasily, muttering low words and disconnected fragments
of speech. Army words--some of them were--as if his spirit lived for the moment again in the
fields of France. At other times the half-formed phrases were of his work--the strike--his
home. Again he spoke his sister's name or murmured, "Father," or "John." But not once did Helen
catch the word she longed to hear him speak. It was as if, even in his unconscious mental wanderings,
the man still guarded the name that in secret he had held most dear.

Three times during the day he opened his eyes and looked about--wonderingly at first--then
as though he understood. As one contented and at peace, he smiled and drifted again into the
shadows. But now at times his hand went out toward her with a little movement, as though he
were feeling for her in the dark.

About midnight he seemed to be sleeping so naturally that they persuaded Helen to rest. At
daybreak she was again at her post.

Mrs. Ward and Mary had gone, in their turn, for an hour or two of sorely needed rest. Peter
Martin was within call downstairs. John, who was watching with his sister, had left the room
for the moment and Helen was at the bedside alone.

Suddenly through the quiet morning air came the deep-toned call of the Mill whistle.

As a soldier awakens at the sound of the morning bugle, Captain Charlie opened his eyes.

Instantly she was bending over him. As he looked up into her face she called his name softly.
She saw the light of recognition come into his eyes. She saw the glory of his love.

"Helen," he said--and again, "Helen."

It was as if the death that claimed him had come also for her.

For the first time in many months the voice of the Mill was not heard by the Interpreter in
his little hut on the cliff. Above the silent buildings the smoke cloud hung like a pall. From
his wheel chair the old basket maker watched the long procession moving slowly down the hill.

There were no uniforms in that procession--no military band with muffled drums led that solemn
march--no regimental colors in honor of the dead. There were no trappings of war--no martial
ceremony. And yet, to the Interpreter, Captain Charlie died in the service of his country as
truly as if he had been killed on the field of battle.

Long after the funeral procession had passed beyond his sight, the Interpreter sat there at
the window, motionless, absorbed in thought. Twice silent Billy came to stand beside his chair,
but he did not heed. His head was bowed. His great shoulders stooped. His hands were idle.

There was a sound of some one knocking at the door.

The Interpreter did not hear.

The sound was repeated, and this time he raised his head questioningly.

Again it came and the old basket maker called, "Come in."

The door opened. Jim McIver entered.

CHAPTER XXVII

JAKE VODELL'S MISTAKE

Since that night of the tragedy McIver had struggled to grasp the hidden meaning of the strange
series of incidents. But the more he tried to understand, the more he was confused and troubled.
Nor had he been able, strong-willed as he was, to shake off the feeling that he was in the
midst of unseen forces--that about him mysterious influences were moving steadily to some fixed
and certain end.

In constant touch, through his agents, with the strike situation, he had watched the swiftly
forming sentiment of the public. He knew that the turning point of the industrial war was near.
He did not deceive himself. He knew Jake Vodell's power. He knew the temper of the strikers.
He saw clearly that if the assassin who killed Captain Charlie was not speedily discovered
the community would suffer under a reign of terror such as the people had never conceived.
And, what was of more vital importance to McIver, perhaps, if the truth was not soon revealed,
Jake Vodell's charges that the murder was inspired by McIver himself would become, in the minds
of many, an established fact. With the full realization of all that would result to the community
and to himself if the identity of the murderer was not soon established, McIver was certain
in his own mind that he alone knew the guilty man.

To reveal what he believed to be the truth of the tragedy would be to save the community and
himself--and to lose, for all time, the woman he loved. McIver did not know that through the
tragedy Helen was already lost to him.

In his extremity the factory owner had come at last to the man who was said to wield such a
powerful influence over the minds of the people. He had never before seen the interior of that
hut on the cliff nor met the man who for so many years had been confined there. Standing just
outside the door, he looked curiously about the room with the unconscious insolence of his
strength.

The man in the wheel chair did not speak. When Billy looked at him he signaled his wishes in
their silent language, and, watching his visitor, waited.

For a long moment McIver gazed at the old basket maker as if estimating his peculiar strength,
then he said with an unintentional touch of contempt in his heavy voice, "So you are the Interpreter."

"And you," returned the man in the wheel chair, gently, "are McIver."

McIver was startled. "How did you know my name?"

"Is McIver's name a secret also?" came the strange reply.

McIver's eyes flashed with a light that those who sat opposite him in the game of business
had often seen. With perfect self-control he said, coolly, "I have been told often that I should
come to see you but--" he paused and again looked curiously about the room.

The Interpreter, smiling, caught up the unfinished sentence. "But you do not see how an old,
poverty-stricken and crippled maker of baskets can be of any use to you."

McIver spoke as one measuring his words. "They tell me you help people who are in trouble."

"Are you then in trouble?" asked the Interpreter, kindly.

The other did not answer, and the man in the wheel chair continued, still kindly, "What trouble
can the great and powerful McIver have? You have never been hungry--you have never felt the
cold--you have no children to starve--no son to be killed."

"I suppose you hold me personally responsible for the strike and for all the hardships that
the strikers have brought upon themselves and their families?" said McIver. "You fellows who
teach this brotherhood-of-man rot and never have more than one meal ahead yourselves always
blame men like me for all the suffering in the world."

The Interpreter replied with a dignity that impressed even McIver. "Who am I that I should
assume to blame any one? Who are you, sir, that assume the power implied by either your acceptance
or your denial of the responsibility? You are only a part of the whole, as I am a part. You,
in your life place, are no less a creature of circumstances--an accident--than I, here in my
wheel chair--than Jake Vodell. We are all--you and I, Jake Vodell, Adam Ward, Peter Martin,
Sam Whaley--we are all but parts of the great oneness of life. The want, the misery, the suffering,
the unhappiness of humanity is of that unity no less than is the prosperity, peace and happiness
of the people. Before we can hope to bring order out of this industrial chaos we must recognize
our mutual dependence upon the whole and acknowledge the equality of our guilt in the wretched
conditions that now exist."

As the Interpreter spoke, James McIver again felt the movement of those unseen forces that
were about him. His presence in that little hut on the cliff seemed, now, a part of some plan
that was not of his making. He was awed by the sudden conviction that he had not come to the
Interpreter of his own volition, but had been led there by something beyond his understanding.

"Why should your fellow workmen not hate you, sir?" continued the old basket maker. "You hold
yourself apart, superior, of a class distinct and separate. Your creed of class is intolerance.
Your very business policy is a declaration of class war. Your boast that you can live without
the working people is madness. You can no more live without them than they can live without
you. You can no more deny the mutual dependence of employer and employee with safety to yourself
than Samson of old could pull down the pillars of the temple without being himself buried in
the ruins."

By an effort of will McIver strove to throw off the feeling that possessed him. He spoke as
one determined to assert himself. "We cannot recognize the rights of Jake Vodell and his lawless
followers to dictate to us in our business. It would mean ruin, not only of our industries,
but of our government."

"Exactly so," agreed the Interpreter. "And yet, sir, you claim for yourself the right to live
by the same spirit of imperialism that animates Vodell. You make the identical class distinction
that he makes. You appeal to the same class intolerance and hatred. You and Jake Vodell have
together brought about this industrial war in Millsburgh. The community itself--labor unions
and business men alike--is responsible for tolerating the imperialism that you and this alien
agitator, in opposition to each other, advocate. The community is paying the price."

The factory owner flushed. "Of course you would say these things to Jake Vodell."

"I do," returned the Interpreter, gently.

"Oh, you are in touch with him then?"

"He comes here sometimes. He is coming this afternoon--at four o'clock. Will you not stay and
meet him, Mr. McIver?" McIver hesitated. He decided to ignore the invitation. With more respect
in his manner than he had so far shown, he said, courteously, "May I ask why Jake Vodell comes
to you?"

The Interpreter replied, sadly, as one who accepts the fact of his failure, "For the same reason
that McIver came."

McIver started with surprise. "You know why I came to you?"

The man in the wheel chair looked steadily into his visitor's eyes. "I know that you are not
personally responsible for the death of the workman, Captain Martin."

McIver sprang to his feet. He fairly gasped as the flood of questions raised by the Interpreter's
words swept over him.

"You--you know who killed Charlie Martin?" he demanded at last.

The old basket maker did not answer.

"If you know," cried McIver, "why in God's name do you not tell the people? Surely, sir, you
are not ignorant of the danger that threatens this community. The death of this union man has
given Vodell just the opportunity he needed and he is using it. If you dare to shield the guilty
man--whoever he is--you will--"

"Peace, McIver! This community will not be plunged into the horrors of a class war such as
you rightly fear. There are yet enough sane and loyal American citizens in Millsburgh to extinguish
the fire that you and Jake Vodell have started."

     *       *       *       *       *

When Jake Vodell came to the Interpreter's hut shortly after McIver had left, he was clearly
in a state of nervous excitement.

"Well," he said, shortly, "I am here--what do you want--why did you send for me?"

The Interpreter spoke deliberately with his eyes fixed upon the dark face of the agitator.
"Vodell, I have told you twice that your campaign in Millsburgh was a failure. Your coming
to this community was a mistake. Your refusal to recognize the power of the thing that made
your defeat certain was a mistake. You have now made your third and final mistake."

"A mistake! Hah--that is what you think. You do not know. I tell you that I have turned a trick
that will win for me the game. Already the people are rallying to me. I have put McIver at
last in a hole from which he will not escape. The Mill workers are ready now to do anything
I say. You will see--to-morrow I will have these employers and all their capitalist class eating
out of my hand. To me they shall beg for mercy. I--I will dictate the terms to them and they
will pay. You may take my word--they will pay."

The man paced to and fro with the triumphant air of a conqueror, and his voice rang with his
exultation.

"No, Jake Vodell," said the Interpreter, calmly. "You are deceiving yourself. Your dreams are
as vain as your mistake is fatal."

The man faced the old basket maker suddenly, as if arrested by a possible meaning in the Interpreter's
words that had not at first caught his attention.

"And what is this mistake that I have made?" he growled.

The answer came with solemn portent. "You have killed the wrong man."

The agitator was stunned. His mouth opened as if he would speak, but no word came from his
trembling lips. He drew back as if to escape.

The old man in the wheel chair continued, sadly, "I am the one you should have killed--I am
the cause of your failure to gain the support of the Mill workers' union."

The strike leader recovered himself with a shrug of his heavy shoulders.

"So that is it," he sneered; "you would accuse me of shooting your Captain Charlie, heh?"

"You have accused yourself, sir."

"But how?"

"By the use you are making of Captain Charlie's death. If you did not know who committed the
crime--if you did not feel sure that the identity of the assassin would remain a mystery to
the people--you would not dare risk charging the employers with it."

With an oath the other returned, "I tell you that McIver or his hired gunmen did it so they
could lay the blame on the strikers and so turn the Mill workers' union against us. That is
what the Mill men believe."

"That is what you want them to believe. It is an old trick, Vodell. You have used it before."

The agitator's eyes narrowed under his scowling brows. "Look here," he growled, "I do not like
this talk of yours. Perhaps you had better prove what you charge, heh?"

"Please God, I will prove it," came the calm answer.

Jake Vodell, as he looked down upon the seemingly helpless old man in the wheel chair, was
thinking, "It would be safer if this old basket maker were not permitted to speak these things
to others--his influence, after all, is a thing to consider."

"No, Jake Vodell," said the Interpreter gently, "you won't do it. Billy Rand is watching us.
If you make a move to do what you are thinking, Billy will kill you."

The Interpreter raised his hand and his silent companion came quickly to stand beside his chair.

With a shrug of his shoulders Vodell drew back a few steps toward the door.

"Bah! Why should I waste my time with a crippled old basket maker--I have work to do. If you
watch from the window of your shanty you will see to-morrow whether or not the Mill workers
are with me. I will make for you a demonstration that will be known through the country. I
told you at the first that the working people would find out who is their friend. Now you shall
see what they will do to the enemies of their class. Who can say, Mr. Interpreter, perhaps
your miserable hut so high up here would make a good torch to signal the beginning of the show,
heh?"

When the door had closed behind Jake Vodell, the Interpreter said, aloud, "So he has set to-morrow
night for his demonstration. We must work fast, Billy--there is no time to lose."

With his hands he asked his companion for paper and pencil. When Billy brought them he wrote
a few words and folding the message gave it to the big man who stood waiting.

For a few minutes they talked together in their silent way. Then Billy Rand put the Interpreter's
message carefully in his pocket and hurriedly left the hut.

     *       *       *       *       *

That evening Jake Vodell addressed the largest crowd that had yet assembled at his street meetings.
With characteristic eloquence the agitator pictured Captain Charlie as a martyr to the unprincipled
schemes of the employer class.

"McIver and his crew are charging the strikers with this crime in order to set our union brothers
against us," he shouted. "They think that by setting up a division among us they can win. They
know that if the working people stand together, true to their class, loyal to their comrades,
they will rule the world. Why don't the police produce the murderer of Captain Charlie? I will
tell you the answer, my brother workmen: it is because the law and the officers of the law
are under the control of those who do not want the murderer produced--that is why. They dare
not produce him. The life of a poor working man--what is that to these masters of crime who
acknowledge no law but the laws they make for themselves. You workers have no laws. A slave
knows no justice but the whim of his master. Think of the mothers and children in your homes--you
slaves who create the wealth of your lords and masters. And now they have taken the life of
one of your truest and most loyal union leaders. Where will they stop? If you do not stand
like men against these cruel outrages what have you to hope for? You know as well as I that
no workman in Millsburgh would raise his hand against such a fellow worker as Captain Charlie
Martin."

While the agitator was speaking, Billy Rand moved quickly here and there through the crowd,
as if searching for some one.

After the mass meeting on the street there was a meeting of the Mill workers' union.

Later, Vodell's inner circle met in the room back of Dago Bill's pool hall.

It was midnight when Billy Rand finally returned to the waiting Interpreter.

Evidently he had failed in the mission entrusted to him by the old basket maker.

The next morning, Billy Rand again went forth with the Interpreter's message.

CHAPTER XXVIII

THE MOB AND THE MILL

On the morning following the day of the funeral scarcely half of the usual force of workmen
appeared at the Mill. The men who did choose to work were forced to pass a picket line of strikers
who with jeers and threats and arguments sought to turn them from their purpose.

The death of Captain Charlie, by defining more clearly the two lines of public sentiment, had
increased Jake Vodell's strength materially, but the Mill workers' union had not yet officially
declared for the sympathetic strike that would deliver the community wholly into the hands
of the agitator. The Mill men, who were still opposed to Jake Vodell's leadership and coolly
refused to hold the employers guilty of the death of Captain Charlie upon the mere unsupported
assertions of the strike leader, were therefore free to continue their work. This action of
the members of the Mill workers' union who were loyal to John, however, quite naturally increased
the feeling of their comrades who had accepted Vodell's version of the murder. Thus, the final
crisis of the industrial battle centered about the Mill.

Every hour that John Ward could keep the Mill running lessened Vodell's chances of final victory.
The strike leader knew that if these days immediately following Captain Charlie's death passed
without closing the Mill, his cause was lost. The workmen were now aroused to the highest pitch
of excitement. The agitator realized that if they were not committed by some action to his
cause before the fever of their madness began to abate, his followers would, day by day, in
ever increasing numbers go back to work under John. The successful operation of the Mill was
a demonstration to the public that Vodell's campaign against the employers was not endorsed
by the better and stronger element of employees. To the mind of the strike leader a counter
demonstration was imperative. To that immediate end the man now bent every effort.

All day the members of the agitator's inner circle were active. When evening came, a small
company of men gathered in a vacant store building not far from the Mill. There was little
talk among them. When one did speak it was to utter a mere commonplace or perhaps to greet
some newcomer. They were as men who meet at a given place by agreement to carry out some definite
and carefully laid plan. Moment by moment the company grew in numbers until the gathering assumed
such proportions that it overflowed the building and filled the street. And now, scattered
through the steadily growing crowd, the members of that inner circle were busy with exhortations
and arguments preparing the workmen for what was to follow.

Presently from the direction of the strike headquarters came another company with Jake Vodell
himself in their midst. These had assembled at the strike headquarters. Without pausing they
swept on down the street toward the Mill, taking with them the crowd that was waiting at the
old store. Scarcely had they reached the front of the large main building when they were joined
by still another crowd that had been gathering in the neighborhood of McIver's factory. Thus,
with startling suddenness, a great company of workmen was assembled at the Mill.

But a large part of that company had yet to be molded to Vodell's purpose. Many had gone to
the designated places in response to the simple announcement that a labor meeting would be
held there. Only those of the agitator's trusted inner circle had known of the plan to unite
these smaller gatherings in one great mass meeting. Only these chosen few knew the real purpose
of that meeting. There were hundreds of workmen in that throng who were opposed to Vodell and
his methods, but they were unorganized, with no knowledge of the strike leader's plans. And
so it had been easy for the members of that inner circle to lead these separate smaller gatherings
to the larger assembly in front of the Mill.

To accomplish the full purpose of his demonstration against the employer class, the strike
leader must make it appear to the public as the united action of the working people of Millsburgh.
The requirements of his profession made Jake Vodell a master of mob psychology. With the leaven
of his chosen inner circle and the temper of the many strikers whose nerves were already strained
to the breaking point by their weeks of privation, the agitator was confident that he could
bend the assembled multitude to his will. Those who were opposed to his leadership and to his
methods--disorganized and taken by surprise as they were--would be helpless. At the same time
their presence in the mob would appear to give their sanction and support to whatever was accomplished.

Quickly word of the gathering spread throughout the community. From every direction--from the
Flats, from the neighborhood of the Martin home--and from the more distant parts of the city--men
were moving toward the Mill. With every moment the crowd increased in size. Everywhere among
the mass of men Vodell's helpers were busy.

A block away an automobile stopped at the curb in front of a deserted house. A man left the
car, and, keeping well out of the light from the street lamps, walked swiftly to the outskirts
of the mob. With his face hidden by the turned-up collar of his overcoat and the brim of his
hat pulled low, he moved here and there in the thin edge of the multitude.

The agitator, standing on a goods box on the street opposite the big doors of the main Mill
building, began his address. As one man, the hundreds of assembled workmen turned toward the
leader of the strike. A hush fell over them. But there was one in that great crowd to whom
the words of Jake Vodell meant nothing. Silent Billy Rand, pushing his way through the press
of men, searched face after face with simple, untiring purpose.

A squad of police arrived. Vodell, calling attention to them, facetiously invited the guardians
of the law to a seat of honor on the rostrum. The crowd laughed.

At that moment Billy Rand caught sight of the face he was seeking. When the Interpreter's messenger
grasped his arm, the man, who was standing well back in the edge of the crowd, started with
fear. Billy thrust the note into his hand. As he read the message he shook so that the paper
rattled in his fingers. Helplessly he looked about. He seemed paralyzed with horror. Again
Billy Rand grasped his arm and this time drew him aside, out of the crowd.

Helpless and shaken, the man made no effort to resist, as the Interpreter's deaf and dumb companion
hurried him away down the street.

At the foot of the zigzag stairway Billy's charge sank down on the lower step, as if he had
no strength to go on. Without a moment's pause Billy lifted him to his feet and almost carried
him up the stairs and into the hut to place him, cowering and whimpering, before the man in
the wheel chair.

     *       *       *       *       *

John and Helen had gone to the Martin cottage that evening to spend an hour with the old workman
and his daughter. They had just arrived when the telephone rang.

It was the watchman at the Mill. He had called John at the Ward home, and Mrs. Ward had directed
him to call the cottage.

In a few words John told the others of the crowd at the Mill. He must go at once.

"But not alone, boy," said Peter Martin. "This is no more your job than 'tis mine."

As they were leaving, John said hurriedly to Helen, "Telephone Tom to come for you at once
and take Mary home with you. Mother may need you, and Mary must not be left here alone. I'll
bring Uncle Pete home with me."

A moment later the old workman and the general manager, in John's roadster, were on their way
to the Mill.

When Tom arrived at the cottage with Helen's car the two young women were ready. They were
entering the automobile when Billy Rand appeared. It was evident from his labored breathing
that he had been running, but his face betrayed no excitement. With a pleased smile, as one
who would say, "Luckily I got here just in time," he handed a folded paper to Mary.

By the light of the automobile lamp she read the Interpreter's message aloud to Helen."

"Telephone John to come to me at once with a big car. If you can't get John tell Helen."

For an instant they looked at each other questioningly. Then Helen spoke to the chauffeur.
"To the Interpreter's, Tom." She indicated to Billy Rand that he was to go with them.

     *       *       *       *       *

It was not Jake Vodell's purpose to call openly in his address to the assembled workmen for
an attack on the Mill. Such a demonstration against the employer class was indeed the purpose
of the gathering, but it must come as the spontaneous outburst from the men themselves. His
speech was planned merely to lay the kindling for the fire. The actual lighting of the blaze
would follow later. The conflagration, too, would be started simultaneously from so many different
points in the crowd that no one individual could be singled out as having incited the riot.

The agitator was still speaking when John and Peter Martin arrived on the scene. Quietly and
carefully John drove through the outskirts of the crowd to a point close to the wall and not
far from the main door of the building, nearly opposite the speaker. Stopping the motor the
two men sat in the car listening to Vodell's address.

The agitator did not call attention to the presence of the manager of the Mill as he had to
the police, nor was there any noticeable break in his speech. But throughout the great throng
there was a movement--a ripple of excitement--as the men looked toward John and the old workman,
and turned each to his neighbor with low-spoken comments. And then, from every part of the
crowd, the agitator saw individuals moving quietly toward the manager's car until between the
two men in the automobile and the main body of the speaker's audience a small compact group
of workmen stood shoulder to shoulder. They were the men of the Mill workers' union who had
refused to follow Jake Vodell. And every man, as he took his place, greeted John and the old
workman with a low word, or a nod and a smile. The agitator concluded his address, and amid
the shouts and applause left his place on the goods box to move about among his followers.

Presently, a low murmur arose like a growling undertone. Now and then a voice was raised sharply
in characteristic threat or epithet against the employer class. The murmur swelled into a heavy
menacing roar. The crowd, shaken by some invisible inner force, swayed to and fro. A shrill
yell rang out and at the signal scores of hoarse voices were raised in shouts of mad defiance--threats
and calls for action. As the whirling waters of a maelstrom are drawn to the central point,
the mob was massed before the doors of the Mill.

The little squad of police was struggling forward. John Ward sprang to his feet. The loyal
union men about the car stood fast.

At the sound of the manager's voice the mob hesitated. In all that maddened crowd there was
not a soul in ignorance of John Ward's comradeship with his fellow workmen. In spite of Jake
Vodell's careful teaching--in spite of his devilish skill in using McIver as an example in
his appeals and arguments inciting their hatred against all employers as a class, they were
checked in their madness by the presence of Captain Charlie's friend.

But it was only for the moment. The members of Vodell's inner circle were at work among them.
John had spoken but a few sentences when he was interrupted by voices from the crowd.

"Tell us where your old man got this Mill that he says is his?"

"Where did Adam get his castle on the hill?"

"We and our families live in shanties."

"Who paid for your automobile, John?"

"We and our children walk."

As the manager, ignoring the voices, continued his appeal, the interruptions came with more
frequency, accompanied now by groans, shouts, hisses and derisive laughter.

"You're all right, John, but you're in with the wrong bunch."

"We're going to run things for a while now and give you a chance to do some real work."

The police pleaded with them. The mob jeered, "Go get a job with McIver's gunmen. Go find the
man who murdered Captain Charlie."

Once more the growling undertones swelled into a roar. "Come on--come on--we've had enough
talk--let's do something."

As the crowd surged again toward the Mill doors, there was a forward movement of the close-packed
group of workmen about the ear. John, leaning over them, said, sharply, "No--no--not that--men,
not that!"

Then suddenly the movement of the mob toward the Mill was again checked as Peter Martin raised
his voice. "If you won't listen to Mr. Ward," said the old man, when he had caught their attention,
"perhaps you'll not mind hearin' me."

In the stillness of the uncertain moment, a voice answered, "Go ahead, Uncle Pete!"

Standing on the seat of the automobile, the kindly old workman looked down into the grim faces
of his comrades. And, as they saw him there and thought of Captain Charlie, a deep breath of
feeling swept over the throng.

In his slow, thoughtful way the veteran of the Mill spoke. "There'll be no one among you, I'm
thinkin', that'll dare say as how I don't belong to the workin' class. An' there'll be no man
that'll deny my right to be heard in any meeting of Millsburgh working men. I helped the Interpreter
to organize the first union that was ever started in this city--and so far we've managed to
carry on our union work without any help from outsiders who have no real right to call themselves
American citizens even--much less to dictate to us American workmen."

There was a stir among Vodell's followers. A voice rose but was silenced by the muttered protest
which it caused. Jake Vodell, quick to grasp the feeling of the crowd, was making his way toward
his goods box rostrum. Here and there he paused a moment to whisper to one of his inner circle.

