THE

ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

VOL. V.--FEBRUARY, 1860.--NO. XXVIII.

COUNTING AND MEASURING.

Though, from the rapid action of the eye and the mind, grouping and counting by groups appear
to be a single operation, yet, as things can be seen in succession only, however rapidly, the
counting of things, whether ideal or real, is necessarily one by one. This is the first step
of the art. The second step is grouping. The use of grouping is to economize speech in numeration,
and writing in notation, by the exercise of the memory. The memorizing of groups is, therefore,
a part of the primary education of every individual. Until this art is attained, to a certain
extent, it is very convenient to use the fingers as representatives of the individuals of which
the groups are composed. This practice led to the general adoption of a group derived from
the fingers of the left hand. The adoption of this group was the first distinct step toward
mental arithmetic. Previous groupings were for particular numerations; this for numeration
in general; being, in fact, the first numeric base,--the quinary. As men advanced in the use
of numbers, they adopted a group derived from the fingers of both hands; thus ten became the
base of numeration.

Notation, like numeration, began with ones, advanced to fives, then to tens, etc. Roman notation
consisted of a series of signs signifying 1, 5, 10, 50, 100, 500, 1000, etc.,--a series evidently
the result of counting by the five fingers and the two hands, the numbers signified being the
products of continued multiplication by five and by two alternately. The Romans adhered to
their mode, nor is it entirely out of use at the present day, being revered for its antiquity,
admired for its beauty, and practised for its convenience.

The ancient Greek series corresponded to that of the Romans, though primarily the signs for
50, 500 and 5000 had no place. Ultimately, however, those places were supplied by means of
compound signs.

The Greeks abandoned their ancient mode in favor of the alphabetic, which, as it signified
by a single letter each number of the arithmetical series from one to nine separately, and
also in union by multiplication with the successive powers of the base of numeration, was a
decided improvement; yet, as it consisted of signs which by their number were difficult to
remember, and by their resemblance easy to mistake, it was far from being perfect.

Doubtless, strenuous efforts were made to remedy these defects, and, apparently as the result
of those efforts, the Arabic or Indian mode appeared; which, signifying the powers of the base
by position, reduced the number of signs to that of the arithmetical series, beginning with
nought and ending with a number of the value of the base less one.

The peculiarity of the Arabic mode, therefore, in comparison with the Greek, the Roman, or
the alphabetic, is place value; the value of a combination by either of these being simply
equal to the sum of its elements. By that, the value of the successive places, counting from
right to left, being equal to the successive powers of the base, beginning with the noughth
power, each figure in the combination is multiplied in value by the power of the base proper
to its place, and the value of the whole is equal to the sum of those products.

The Arabic mode is justly esteemed one of the happiest results of human intelligence; and though
the most complex ever practised, its efficiency, as an arithmetical means, has obtained for
it the reputation of great simplicity,--a reputation that extends even to the present base,
which, from its intimate and habitual association with the mode, is taken to be a part of the
mode itself.

With regard to this impression it may be remarked, that the qualities proper to a mode bear
no resemblance to those proper to a base. The qualities of the present mode are well known
and well accepted. Those of the present base are accepted with the mode, but those proper to
a base remain to be determined. In attempting to ascertain these, it will be necessary to consider
the uses of numeration and of notation.

These may be arranged in three divisions,--scientific, mechanical, and commercial. The first
is limited, being confined to a few; the second is general, being common to many; the third
is universal, being necessary to all. Commercial use, therefore, will govern the present inquiry.

Commerce, being the exchange of property, requires real quantity to be determined, and this
in such proportions as are most readily obtained and most frequently required. This can be
done only by the adoption of a unit of quantity that is both real and constant, and such multiples
and divisions of it as are consistent with the nature of things and the requirements of use:
real, because property, being real, can be measured by real measures only; constant, because
the determination of quantity requires a standard of comparison that is invariable; conveniently
proportioned, because both time and labor are precious. These rules being acted on, the result
will be a system of real, constant, and convenient weights, measures, and coins. Consequently,
the numeration and notation best suited to commerce will be those which agree best with such
a system.

From the earliest periods, special attention has been paid to units of quantity, and, in the
ignorance of more constant quantities, the governors of men have offered their own persons
as measures; hence the fathom, yard, pace, cubit, foot, span, hand, digit, pound, and pint.
It is quite probable that the Egyptians first gave to such measures the permanent form of government
standards, and that copies of them were carried by commerce, and otherwise, to surrounding
nations. In time, these became vitiated, and should have been verified by their originals;
but for distant nations this was not convenient; moreover, the governors of those nations had
a variety of reasons for preferring to verify them by their own persons. Thus they became doubly
vitiated; yet, as they were not duly enforced, the people pleased themselves, so that almost
every market-town and fair had its own weights and measures; and as, in the regulation of coins,
governments, like the people, pleased themselves, so that almost every nation had a peculiar
currency, the general result was, that with the laws and the practices of the governors and
the governed, neither of whom pursued a legitimate course, confusion reigned supreme. Indeed,
a system of weights, measures, and coins, with a constant and real standard, and corresponding
multiples and divisions, though indulged in as a day-dream by a few, has never yet been presented
to the world in a definite form; and as, in the absence of such a system, a corresponding system
of numeration and notation can be of no real use, the probability is, that neither the one
nor the other has ever been fully idealized. On the contrary, the present base is taken to
be a fixed fact, of the order of the laws of the Medes and Persians; so much so, that, when
the great question is asked, one of the leading questions of the age,--How is this mass of
confusion to be brought into harmony?--the reply is,--It is only necessary to adopt one constant
and real standard, with decimal multiples and divisions, and a corresponding nomenclature,
and the work is done: a reply that is still persisted in, though the proposition has been fairly
tried, and clearly proved to be impracticable.

Ever since commerce began, merchants, and governments for them, have, from time to time, established
multiples and divisions of given standards; yet, for some reason, they have seldom chosen the
number ten as a base. From the long-continued and intimate connection of decimal numeration
and notation with the quantities commerce requires, may not the fact, that it has not been
so used more frequently, be considered as sufficient evidence that this use is not proper to
it? That it is not may be shown thus:--A thing may be divided directly into equal parts only
by first dividing it into two, then dividing each of the parts into two, etc., producing 2,
4, 8, 16, etc., equal parts, but ten never. This results from the fact, that doubling or folding
is the only direct mode of dividing real quantities into equal parts, and that balancing is
the nearest indirect mode,--two facts that go far to prove binary division to be proper to
weights, measures, and coins. Moreover, use evidently requires things to be divided by two
more frequently than by any other number,--a fact apparently due to a natural agreement between
men and things. Thus it appears the binary division of things is not only most readily obtained,
but also most frequently required. Indeed, it is to some extent necessary; and though it may
be set aside in part, with proportionate inconvenience, it can never be set aside entirely,
as has been proved by experience. That men have set it aside in part, to their own loss, is
sufficiently evidenced. Witness the heterogeneous mass of irregularities already pointed out.
Of these our own coins present a familiar example. For the reasons above stated, coins, to
be practical, should represent the powers of two; yet, on examination, it will be found, that,
of our twelve grades of coins, only one-half are obtained by binary division, and these not
in a regular series. Do not these six grades, irregular as they are, give to our coins their
principal convenience? Then why do we claim that our coins are decimal? Are any of these decimal?
We might have decimal coins by dropping all but cents, dimes, dollars, and eagles; but the
question is not, What we might have, but, What have we? Certainly we have not decimal coins.
A purely decimal system of coins would be an intolerable nuisance, because it would require
a greatly increased number of small coins. This may be illustrated by means of the ancient
Greek notation, using the simple signs only, with the exception of the second sign, to make
it purely decimal. To express $9.99 by such a notation, only three signs can be used; consequently
nine repetitions of each are required, making a total of twenty-seven signs. To pay it in decimal
coins, the same number of pieces are required. Including the second Greek sign, twenty-three
signs are required; including the compound signs also, only fifteen. By Roman notation, without
subtraction, fifteen; with subtraction, nine. By alphabetic notation, three signs without repetition.
By the Arabic, one sign thrice repeated. By Federal coins, nine pieces, one of them being a
repetition. By dual coins, six pieces without a repetition, a fraction remaining.

In the gradation of real weights, measures, and coins, it is important to adopt those grades
which are most convenient, which require the least expense of capital, time, and labor, and
which are least likely to be mistaken for each other. What, then, is the most convenient gradation?
The base two gives a series of seven weights that may be used: 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64 lbs.
By these any weight from one to one hundred and twenty-seven pounds may be weighed. This is,
perhaps, the smallest number of weights or of coins with which those several quantities of
pounds or of dollars may be weighed or paid. With the same number of weights, representing
the arithmetical series from one to seven, only from one to twenty-eight pounds may be weighed;
and though a more extended series may be used, this will only add to their inconvenience; moreover,
from similarity of size, such weights will be readily mistaken. The base ten gives only two
weights that may be used. The base three gives a series of weights, 1, 3, 9, 27, etc., which
has a great promise of convenience; but as only four may be used, the fifth being too heavy
to handle, and as their use requires subtraction as well as addition, they have neither the
convenience nor the capability of binary weights; moreover, the necessity for subtraction renders
this series peculiarly unfit for coins.

The legitimate inference from the foregoing seems to be, that a perfectly practical system
of weights, measures, and coins, one not practical only, but also agreeable and convenient,
because requiring the smallest possible number of pieces, and these not readily mistaken for
each other, and because agreeing with the natural division of things, and therefore commercially
proper, and avoiding much fractional calculation, is that, and that only, the successive grades
of which represent the successive powers of two.

That much fractional calculation may thus be avoided is evident from the fact that the system
will be homogeneous. Thus, as binary gradation supplies one coin for every binary division
of the dollar, down to the sixty-fourth part, and farther, if necessary, any of those divisions
may be paid without a remainder. On the contrary, Federal gradation, though in part binary,
gives one coin for each of the first two divisions only. Of the remaining four divisions, one
requires two coins, and another three, and not one of them can be paid in full. Thus it appears
there are four divisions of the dollar that cannot be paid in Federal coins, divisions that
are constantly in use, and unavoidable, because resulting from the natural division of things,
and from the popular division of the pound, gallon, yard, inch, etc., that has grown out of
it. Those fractious that cannot be paid, the proper result of a heterogeneous system, are a
constant source of jealousy, and often produce disputes, and sometimes bitter wrangling, between
buyer and seller. The injury to public morals arising from this cause, like the destructive
effect of the constant dropping of water, though too slow in its progress to be distinctly
traced, is not the less certain. The economic value of binary gradation is, in the aggregate,
immense; yet its moral value is not to be overlooked, when a full estimate of its worth is
required.

Admitting binary gradation to be proper to weights, measures, and coins, it follows that a
corresponding base of numeration and notation must be provided, as that best suited to commerce.
For this purpose, the number two immediately presents itself; but binary numeration and notation
being too prolix for arithmetical practice, it becomes necessary to select for a base a power
of two that will afford a more comprehensive notation: a power of two, because no other number
will agree with binary gradation. It is scarcely proper to say the third power has been selected,
for there was no alternative,--the second power being too small, and the fourth too large.
Happily, the third is admirably suited to the purpose, combining, as it does, the comprehensiveness
of eight with the simplicity of two.

It may be asked, how a number, hitherto almost entirely overlooked as a base of numeration,
is suddenly found to be so well suited to the purpose. The fact is, the present base being
accepted as proper for numeration, however erroneously, it is assumed to be proper for gradation
also; and a very flattering assumption it is, promising a perfectly homogeneous system of weights,
measures, coins, and numbers, than which nothing can be more desirable; but, siren-like, it
draws the mind away from a proper investigation of the subject, and the basic qualities of
numbers, being unquestioned, remain unknown. When the natural order is adopted, and the base
of gradation is ascertained by its adaptation to things, and the base of numeration by its
agreement with that of gradation, then, the basic qualities of numbers being questioned, two
is found to be proper to the first use, and eight to the second.

The idea of changing the base of numeration will appear to most persons as absurd, and its
realization as impossible; yet the probability is, it will be done. The question is one of
time rather than of fact, and there is plenty of time. The diffusion of education will ultimately
cause it to be demanded. A change of notation is not an impossible thing. The Greeks changed
theirs, first for the alphabetic, and afterwards, with the rest of the civilized world, for
the Arabic,--both greater changes than that now proposed. A change of numeration is truly a
more serious matter, yet the difficulty may not be as great as our apprehensions paint it.
Its inauguration must not be compared with that of French gradation, which, though theoretically
perfect, is practically absurd.

Decimal numeration grew out of the fact that each person has ten fingers and thumbs, without
reference to science, art, or commerce. Ultimately scientific men discovered that it was not
the best for certain purposes, consequently that a change might be desirable; but as they were
not disposed to accommodate themselves to popular practices, which they erroneously viewed,
not as necessary consequences, but simply as bad habits, they suggested a base with reference
not so much to commerce as to science. The suggestion was never acted on, however; indeed,
it would have been in vain, as Delambre remarks, for the French commission to have made the
attempt, not only for the reason he presents, but also because it does not agree with natural
division, and is therefore not suited to commerce; neither is it suited to the average capacity
of mankind for numbers; for, though some may be able to use duodecimal numeration and notation
with ease, the great majority find themselves equal to decimal only, and some come short even
of that, except in its simplest use. Theoretically, twelve should be preferred to ten, because
it agrees with circle measure at least, and ten agrees with nothing; besides, it affords a
more comprehensive notation, and is divisible by 6, 4, 3, and 2 without a fraction, qualities
that are theoretically valuable.

At first sight, the universal use of decimal numeration seems to be an argument in its favor.
It appears as though Nature had pointed directly to it, on account of some peculiar fitness.
It is assumed, indeed, that this is the case, and habit confirms the assumption; yet, when
reflection has overcome habit, it will be seen that its adoption was due to accident alone,--that
it took place before any attention was paid to a general system, in short, without reflection,--and
that its supposed perfection is a mere delusion; for, as a member of such a system, it presents
disagreements on every hand; as has been said, it has no agreement with anything, unless it
be allowable to say that it agrees with the Arabic mode of notation. This kind of agreement
it has, in common with every other base. It is this that gives it character. On this account
alone it is believed by many to be the perfection of harmony. They get the base of numeration
and the mode of notation so mingled together, that they cannot separate them sufficiently to
obtain a distinct idea of either; and some are not conscious that they are distinct, but see
in the Arabic mode nothing save decimal notation, and attribute to it all those high qualities
that belong to the mode only. The Arabic mode is an invention of the highest merit, not surpassed
by any other; but the admiration that belongs to it is thus bestowed upon a quite commonplace
idea, a misapplication, which, in this as in many other cases, arises from the fact, that it
is much easier to admire than to investigate. This result of carelessness, if isolated, might
be excused; but all errors are productive, and it should be remembered that this one has produced
that extraordinary perversion of truth to be found in the reply to the question, How is all
this confusion to be brought into harmony? It has produced it not only in words, but in deed.
Was it not this reply that led the French commission to extend the use of the present base
from numeration to gradation also, under the delusive hope of producing a perfectly homogeneous
system, that would be practical also? Was it not under its influence, that, adhering to the
base to which the world had been so long accustomed, instead of attempting to regulate ideal
division by real, which might have led to the adoption of the true base and a practical system,
they committed the one great error of endeavoring to reverse true order, by forcing real division
into conformity with a preconceived ideal? This attempt was made at a time supposed by many
to be peculiarly suited to the purpose, a time of changes. It was a time of changes, truly;
but these were the result of high excitement, not of quiet thought, such as the subject requires,--a
time for rushing forward, not for retracing misguided steps. Accordingly, a system was produced
which from its magnitude and importance was truly imposing, and which, to the present day,
is highly applauded by all those who, under the influence of the error alluded to, conceive
decimal numeration to be a sacred truth: applauded, not because of its adaptation to commerce,
but simply because of its beautiful proportions, its elegant symmetry, to say nothing of the
array of learning and power engaged in its production and inauguration: imposing, truly, and
alike on its authors and admirers; for the qualities they so much admire are not peculiar to
the decimal base, but to the use of one and the same base for numeration, notation, and gradation.
But if the base ten agrees with nothing, over, on, or under the earth, can it be the best for
scientific use? can it be at all suited to commercial purposes? If true order is the object
to be attained, and that for the sake of its utility, then agreement between real and ideal
division is the one thing needful, the one essential change without which all other changes
are vain, the only change that will yield the greatest good to the greatest number,--a change,
which, as volition is with the ideal, and inertia with the real, can be attained only by adaptation
of the ideal to the real.

A full investigation of the existing heterogeneous or fragmentary system will lead to the discovery
that it contains two elements which are at variance with natural division and with each other,
and that the unsuccessful issue of every attempt at regulation hitherto made has been the proper
result of the mistake of supposing agreement between those elements to be a possible thing.

The first element of discord to be considered is the division of things by personal proportion,
as by fathom, yard, cubit, foot, etc. It is obvious at a glance, that these do not agree with
binary division, nor with decimal, nor yet with each other. It is this element that has suggested
the duodecimal base, to which some adhere so tenaciously, apparently because they have not
ascertained the essential quality of a base.

The second is the numeration of things by personal parts, as fingers, hands, etc.,--suggesting
a base of numeration that has no agreement with the binary, nor with personal proportion, neither
can it have with any proper general system. Are there any things in Nature that exist by tens,
that associate by tens, that separate into tenths? Are there any things that are sold by tens,
or by tenths? Even the fingers number eight, and, had there been any reflection used in the
adoption of a base of numeration, the thumbs would not have been included. The ease with which
the simplest arithmetical series may be continued led our fathers quietly to the adoption,
first, of the quinary, and second, of the decimal group; and we have continued its use so quietly,
that its propriety has rarely been questioned; indeed, most persons are both surprised and
offended, when they hear it declared to be a purely artificial base, proper only to abstract
numbers.

The binary base, on the contrary, is natural, real, simple, and accords with the tendency of
the mind to simplify, to individualize. In business, who ever thinks of a half as two-fourths,
or three-sixths, much less as two-and-a-half-fifths, or three-and-a-half-sevenths? For division
by two produces a half at one operation; but with any other divisor, the reduction is too great,
and must be followed by multiplication. Think of calling a half five-tenths, a quarter twenty-five-hundredths,
an eighth one-hundred-and-twenty-five-thousandths! Arithmetic is seldom used as a plaything.
It generally comes into use when the mind is too much occupied for sporting. Consequently,
the smallest divisor that will serve the purpose is always preferred. A calculation is an appendage
to a mercantile transaction, not a part of the transaction itself; it is, indeed, a hindrance,
and in large business is performed by a distinct person. But even with him, simplicity, because
necessary to speed, is second in merit only to correctness.

The binary base is not only simple, it is real. Accordingly, it has large agreement with the
popular divisions of weights, etc. Grocers' weights, up to the four-pound piece, and all their
measures, are binary; so are the divisions of the yard, the inch, etc.

It is not only simple and real, it is natural. On every hand, things may be found that are
duplex in form, that associate in pairs, that separate into halves, that may be divided into
two equal parts. Things are continually sold in pairs, in halves, and in quantities produced
by halving.

The binary base, therefore, is here proposed, as the only proper base for gradation; and the
octonal, as the true commercial base, for numeration and notation: two bases which in combination
form a binoctonal system that is at once simple, comprehensive, and efficient.

MY LAST LOVE.

I had counted many more in my girlhood, in the first flush of blossoming,--and a few, good
men and true, whom I never meet even now without an added color; for, at one time or another,
I thought I loved each of them.

"Why didn't I marry them, then?"

For the same reason that many another woman does not. We are afraid to trust our own likings.
Too many of them are but sunrise vapors, very rosy to begin with, but by mid-day as dingy as
any old dead cloud with the rain all shed out of it. I never see any of those old swains of
mine, without feeling profoundly thankful that I don't belong to him. I shouldn't want to look
over my husband's head in any sense. So they all got wives and children, and I lived an old
maid,--although I was scarcely conscious of the state; for, if my own eyes or other people's
testimony were to be trusted, I didn't look old, and I'm quite sure I didn't feel so. But I
came to myself on my thirty-second birthday, an old maid most truly, without benefit of clergy.
And thereby hangs this tale; for on that birthday I first made acquaintance with my last love.

Something like a month before, there had come to Huntsville two gentlemen in search of game
and quiet quarters for the summer. They soon found that a hotel in a country village affords
little seclusion; but the woods were full of game, the mountain-brooks swarmed with trout too
fine to be given up, and they decided to take a house of their own. After some search, they
fixed on an old house, (I've forgotten whose "folly" it was called,) full a mile and a half
from town, standing upon a mossy hill that bounded my fields, square and stiff and weather-beaten,
and without any protection except a ragged pine-tree that thrust its huge limbs beneath the
empty windows, as though it were running away with a stolen house under its arm. The place
was musty, rat-eaten, and tenanted by a couple of ghosts, who thought a fever, once quite fatal
within the walls, no suitable discharge from the property, and made themselves perfectly free
of the quarters in properly weird seasons. But money and labor cleared out all the cobwebs,
(for ghosts are but spiritual cobwebs, you know,) and the old house soon wore a charming air
of rustic comfort.

I used to look over sometimes, for it was full in view from my chamber-windows, and see the
sportsmen going off by sunrise with their guns or fishing-rods, or lying, after their late
dinner, stretched upon the grass in front of the house, smoking and reading. Sometimes a fragment
of a song would be dropped down from the lazy wings of the south wind, sometimes a long laugh
filled all the summer air and frightened the pinewood into echoes, and, altogether, the new
neighbors seemed to live an enviable life. They were very civil people, too; for, though their
nearest path out lay across my fields, and close by the doorway, and they often stopped to
buy fruit or cream or butter, we were never annoyed by an impertinent question or look. Once
only I overheard a remark not altogether civil, and that was on the evening before my birthday.
One of them, the elder, said, as he went away from my house with a basket of cherries, that
he should like to get speech with that polyglot old maid, who read, and wrote, and made her
own butter-pats. The other answered, that the butter was excellent at any rate, and perhaps
she had a classical cow; and they went down the lane laughingly disputing about the matter,
not knowing that I was behind the currant-bushes.

"Polyglot old maid!" I thought, very indignantly, as I went into the house. "I've a mind not
to sell them another cake of my butter. But I wonder if people call me an old maid. I wonder
if I am one."

I thought of it all the evening, and dreamt of it all night, waking the next morning with a
new realization of the subject. That first sense of a lost youth! How sharp and strong it comes!
That suddenly opened north door of middle life, through which the winter winds rush in, sweeping
out of the southern windows all the splendors of the earlier time; it is like a sea-turn in
late summer. It has seemed to be June all along, and we thought it was June, until the wind
went round to the east, and the first red leaf admonished us. By-and-by we close, as well as
we may, that open door, and look out again from the windows upon blooms, beautiful in their
way, to which some birds yet sing; but, alas! the wind is still from the east, and blows as
though, far away, it had lain among icebergs.

So I mused all the morning, watering the sentiment with a bit of a shower out of my cloud;
and when the shadows turned themselves, I went out to see how old age would look to me in the
fields and woods. It was a delicious afternoon, more like a warm dream of hay-making, odorous,
misty, sleepily musical, than a waking reality, on which the sun shone. Tremulous blue clouds
lay down all around upon the mountains, and lazy white ones lost themselves in the waters;
and through the dozing air, the faint chirp of robin or cricket, and ding of bells in the woods,
and mellow cut of scythe, melted into one song, as though the heart-beat of the luscious midsummer-time
had set itself to tune.

I walked on to loiter through the woods. No dust-brush for brain or heart like the boughs of
trees! There dwells a truth, and pure, strong health within them, an ever-returning youth,
promising us a glorious leafage in some strange spring-time, and a symmetry and sweetness that
possess us until our thoughts grow skyward like them, and wave and sing in some sunnier strata
of soul-air. In the woods I was a girl again, and forgot the flow of the hours in their pleasant
companionship. I must have grown tired and sat down by a thicket of pines to rest, though I
have forgotten, and perhaps I had fallen asleep; for suddenly I became conscious of a sharp
report, and a sharper pain in my shoulder, and, tearing off my cape, I found the blood was
flowing from a wound just below the joint. I remember little more, for a sudden faintness came
over me; but I have an indistinct remembrance of people coming up, of voices, of being carried
home, and of the consternation there, and long delay in obtaining the surgeon. The pain of
an operation brought me fully to my senses; and when that was over, I was left alone to sleep,
or to think over my situation at leisure. I'm afraid I had but little of a Christian spirit
then. All my plans of labor and pleasure spoiled by this one piece of carelessness! to call
it by the mildest term. All those nice little fancies that should have grown into real flesh-and-blood
articles for my publisher, hung up to dry and shrivel without shape or comeliness! The garden,
the dairy, the new bit of carriage-way through the beeches,--my pet scheme,--the new music,
the sewing, all laid upon the shelf for an indefinite time, and I with no better employment
than to watch the wall-paper, and to wonder if it wasn't almost dinner- or supper-time, or
nearly daylight! To be sure, I knew and thought of all the improving reflections of a sick-room;
but it was much like a mild-spoken person making peace among twenty quarrelsome ones. You can
see him making mouths, but you don't hear a word he says.

A sick mind breeds fever fast in a sick body, and by night I was in a high fever, and for a
day or two knew but little of what went on about me. One of the first things I heard, when
I grew easier, was, that my neighbor, the sportsman, was waiting below to hear how I was. It
was the younger one whose gun had wounded me; and he had shown great solicitude, they said,
coming several times each day to inquire for me. He brought some birds to be cooked for me,
too,--and came again to bring some lilies he had gone a mile to fetch, he told the girl. Every
day he came to inquire, or to bring some delicacy, or a few flowers, or a new magazine for
me, until the report of his visit came to be an expected excitement, and varied the dull days
wonderfully. Sickness and seclusion are a new birth to our senses, oftentimes. Not only do
we get a real glimpse of ourselves, undecked and unclothed, but the commonest habits of life,
and the things that have helped to shape them day by day, put on a sort of strangeness, and
come to shake hands with us again, and make us wonder that they should be just exactly what
they are. We get at the primitive meaning of them, as if we rubbed off the nap of life, and
looked to see how the threads were woven; and they come and go before us with a sort of old
newness that affects us much as if we should meet our own ghost some time, and wonder if we
are really our own or some other person's housekeeper.

I went through all this, and came out with a stock of small facts beside,--as, that the paper-hanger
had patched the hangings in my chamber very badly in certain dark spots, (I had got several
headaches, making it out,)--that the chimney was a little too much on one side,--that certain
boards in the entry-floor creaked of their own accord in the night,--that Neighbor Brown had
tucked a few new shingles into the roof of his barn, so that it seemed to have broken out with
them,--and any number of other things equally important. At length I got down-stairs, and was
allowed to see a few friends. Of course there was an inundation of them; and each one expected
to hear my story, and to tell a companion one, something like mine, only a little more so.
It was astonishing, the immense number of people that had been hurt with guns. No wonder I
was sick for a day or two afterward. I was more prudent next time, however, and, as the gossips
had got all they wanted, I saw only my particular friends. Among these my neighbor, the sportsman,
insisted on being reckoned, and after a little hesitation we were obliged to admit him. I say
we,--for, on hearing of my injury, my good cousin, Mary Mead, had come to nurse and amuse me.
She was one of those safe, serviceable, amiable people, made of just the stuff for a satellite,
and she proved invaluable to me. She was immensely taken with Mr. Ames, too, (I speak of the
younger, for, after the first call of condolence, the elder sportsman never came,) and to her
I left the task of entertaining him, or rather of doing the honors of the house,--for the gentleman
contrived to entertain himself and us.

Now don't imagine the man a hero, for he was no such thing. He was very good-looking,--some
might say handsome,--well-bred, well educated, with plenty of common information picked up
in a promiscuous intercourse with town and country people, rather fine tastes, and a great,
strong, magnanimous, physical nature, modest, but perfectly self-conscious. That was his only
charm for me. I despise a mere animal; but, other things being equal, I admire a man who is
big and strong, and aware of his advantages; and I think most women, and very refined ones,
too, love physical beauty and strength much more than they are willing to acknowledge. So I
had the same admiration for Mr. Ames that I should have had for any other finely proportioned
thing, and enjoyed him very much, sitting quietly in my corner while he chatted with Mary,
or told me stories of travel or hunting, or read aloud, which he soon fell into the way of doing.

We did try, as much as hospitality permitted, to confine his visits to a few ceremonious calls;
but he persisted in coming almost every day, and walked in past the girl with that quiet sort
of authority which it is so difficult to resist. In the same way he took possession of Mary
and me. He was sure it must be very dull for both of us; therefore he was going, if we would
pardon the liberty, to offer his services as reader, while my nurse went out for a ride or
a walk. Couldn't I sit out under the shadow of the beech-trees, as well as in that hot room?
He could lift the chair and me perfectly well, and arrange all so that I should be comfortable.
He would like to superintend the cooking of some birds he brought one day. He noticed that
the girl didn't do them quite as nicely as he had learned to do them in the woods. And so in
a thousand things he quietly made us do as he chose, without seeming to outrage any rule of
propriety. When I was able to sit in a carriage, he persuaded me to drive with him; and I had
to lean on his arm, when I first went round the place to see how matters went on.

Once I protested against his making himself so necessary to us, and told him that I didn't
care to furnish the gossips so much food as we were doing.

When I turned him out of doors, he would certainly stay away, he said; but he thought, that,
as long as I was an invalid, I needed some one to think and act for me and save me the trouble,
and, as no one else seemed disposed to take the office, he thought it was rather his duty and
privilege,--especially, he added, with a slight smile, as he was quite sure that it was not
very disagreeable to us. As for the gossips, he didn't think they would make much out of it,
with such an excellent duenna as Cousin Mary,--and, indeed, he heard the other day that he
was paying attention to her.

I thought it all over by myself, when he had gone, and came to the conclusion that it was not
necessary for me to resign so great a pleasure as his society had become, merely for the fear
of what a few curious people might say. Even Mary, cautious as she was, protested against banishing
him for such a reason; and, after a little talking over of the matter among ourselves, we decided
to let Mr. Ames come as often as he chose, for the remaining month of his stay.

That month went rapidly enough, for I was well enough to ride and walk out, and half the time
had Mr. Ames to accompany me. I got to value him very much, as I knew him better, and as he
grew acquainted with my peculiarities; and we were the best friends in the world, without a
thought of being more. No one would have laughed at that more than we, there was such an evident
unsuitableness in the idea. At length the time came for him to leave Huntsville; his house
was closed, except one room where he still preferred to remain, and his friend was already
gone. He came to take tea with us for the last time, and made himself as agreeable as ever,
although it evidently required some effort to do so. Soft-hearted Cousin Mary broke down and
went off crying when he bade her good-bye, after tea; but I was not of such stuff, and laughingly
rallied him on the impression he had made.

"Get your bonnet, and walk over to the stile with me, Miss Rachel," he said. "It isn't sunset
quite yet, and the afternoon is warm. Come! it's the last walk we shall take together."

I followed him out, and we went almost silently across the fields to the hill that overlooked
the strip of meadow between our houses. There was the stile over which I had looked to see
him spring, many a time.

"Sit down a moment, until the sun is quite down," he said, making room for me beside him on
the topmost step. "See how splendid that sky is! a pavilion for the gods!"

"I should think they were airing all their finery," I answered. "It looks more like a counter
spread with bright goods than anything else I can think of."

"That's a decidedly vulgar comparison, and you're not in a spiritual mood at all," he said.
"You've snubbed me two or three times to-night, when I've tried to be sentimental. What's amiss
with you?" and he bent his eyes, full of a saucy sort of triumph, upon mine.

"I don't like parting with friends; it sets me all awry," I said, giving back his own self-assured
look. I was sorry to have him go; but if he thought I was going to cry or blush, he was mistaken.

"You'll write to me, Miss Rachel?" he asked.

"No, Mr. Ames,--not at all," I said.

"Not write? Why not?" he asked, in astonishment.

"Because I don't believe in galvanizing dead friendships," I answered.

"Dead friendships, Miss Rachel? I hope ours has much life in it yet," he said.

"It's in the last agony, Sir. It will be comfortably dead and buried before long, with a neat
little epitaph over it,--which is much the best way to dispose of them finally, I think."

"You're harder than I thought you were," he said. "Is that the way you feel towards all your
friends?"

"I love my friends as well as any one," I answered. "But I never hold them when they wish to
be gone. My life-yarn spins against some other yarn, catches the fibres, and twists into the
very heart"----

"So far?" he asked, turning his eyes down to mine.

"Yes," I said, coolly,--"for the time being. You don't play at your friendships, do you? If
so, I pity you. As I was saying, they're like one thread. By-and-by one spindle is moved, the
strands spin away from each other, and become strange yarn. What's the use of sending little
locks of wool across to keep them acquainted? They're two yarns from henceforth. Reach out
for some other thread,--there's plenty near,--and spin into that. We're made all up of little
locks from other people, Mr. Ames. Won't it be strange, in that great Hereafter, to hunt up
our own fibres, and return other people's? It would take about forty-five degrees of an eternity
to do that."

"I shall never return mine," he said. "I couldn't take myself to pieces in such a style. But
won't you write at all?"

"To what purpose? You'll be glad of one letter,--possibly of two. Then it will be, 'Confound
it! here's a missive from that old maid! What a bore! Now I suppose I must air my wits in her
behalf; but, if you ever catch me again,'----Exit."

"And you?" he asked, laughing.

"I shall be as weary as you, and find it as difficult to keep warmth in the poor dying body.
No, Mr. Ames. Let the poor thing die a natural death, and we'll wear a bit of crape a little
while, and get a new friend for the old."

"So you mean to forget me altogether?"

"No, indeed! I shall recollect you as a very pleasant tale that is told,--not a friend to hanker
after. Isn't that good common sense?"

"It's all head-work,--mere cold calculation," he said; "while I"----He stopped and colored.

"Your gods, there, are downright turn-coats," I said, coming down from the stile. "Their red
mantles are nothing but pearl-colored now, and presently they'll be russet-gray. That whippoorwill
always brings the dew with him, too; so I must go home. Good-night, and good-bye, Mr. Ames."

"I scarcely know how to part with you," he said, taking my hand. "It's not so easy a thing to do."

"People say, 'Good-bye,' or 'God bless you,' or some such civil phrase, usually," I said, with
just the least curl of my lip,--for I knew I had got the better of him.

He colored again, and then smiled a little sadly.

"Ah! I'm afraid I leave a bigger lock than I take," he exclaimed. "Well, then, good friend!
good-bye, and God bless you, too! Don't be quite so hard as you promise to be."

I missed him very much, indeed; but if any think I cried after him, or wrote verses, or soliloquized
for his sake, they are much mistaken. I had lost friends before, and made it a point to think
just as little of them as possible, until the sore spot grew strong enough to handle without
wincing. Besides, my cousin stayed with me, and all my good friends in the village had to come
out for a call or a visit to see how the land lay; so I had occupation enough. Once in a while
I used to look over to the old house, and wish for one good breezy conversation with its master;
and when the snow came and lay in one mass upon the old roof, clear down to the eaves, like
a night-cap pulled down to the eyes of a low-browed old woman, I moved my bed against the window
that looked that way. These forsaken nests are gloomy things enough!

I had no thought of hearing again of him or from him, and was surprised, when, in a month,
a review came, and before long another, and afterwards a box, by express, with a finely kept
bouquet, and, in mid-winter, a little oil-painting,--a delicious bit of landscape for my sanctum,
as he said in the note that accompanied it. I heard from him in this way all winter, although
I never sent word or message back again, and tried to think I was sorry that he did not forget
me, as I had supposed he would. Of course I never thought of acknowledging to myself that it
was possible for me to love him. I was too good a sophist for that; and, indeed, I think that
between a perfect friendship and a perfect love a fainter distinction exists than many people
imagine. I have known likings to be colored as rosily as love, and seen what called itself
love as cold as the chilliest liking.

One day, after spring had been some time come, I was returning from a walk and saw that Mr.
Ames's house was open. I could not see any person there; but the door and windows were opened,
and a faint smoke crept out of the chimney and up among the new spring foliage after the squirrels.
I had walked some distance, and was tired, and the weather was not perfect; but I thought I
would go round that way and see what was going on. It was one of those charming child-days
in early May, laughing and crying all in one, the fine mist-drops shining down in the sun's
rays, like star-dust from some new world in process of rasping up for use. I liked such days.
The showers were as good for me as for the trees. I grew and budded under them, and they filled
my soul's soil full of singing brooks.

When I reached the lawn before the door, Mr. Ames came out to see me,--so glad to meet that
he held my hand and drew me in, asking two or three times how I was and if I were glad to see
him. He had called at the house and seen Cousin Mary, on his way over, he said,--for he was
hungering for a sight of us. He was not looking as well as when he left in the autumn,--thinner,
paler, and with a more anxious expression when he was not speaking; but when I began to talk
with him, he brightened up, and seemed like his old self. He had two or three workmen already
tearing down portions of the finishing, and after a few moments asked me to go round and see
what improvements he was to make. We stopped at last at his chamber, a room that looked through
the foliage towards my house.

"This is my lounging-place," he said, pointing to the sofa beneath the window. "I shall sit
here with my cigar and watch you this summer; so be circumspect! But are you sure that you
are glad to see me?"

"To be sure. Do you take me for a heathen?" I said. "But what are you making such a change
for? Couldn't the old house content you?"

"It satisfies me well enough; but I expect visitors this summer who are quite fastidious, and
this old worm-eaten wood-work wouldn't do for them. What makes you look so dark? Don't you
like the notion of my lady-visitors?"

"I didn't know that they were to be ladies until you told me," I said; "and it's none of my
business whom you entertain, Mr. Ames."

"There wasn't much of a welcome for them in your face, at any rate," he answered. "And to tell
the truth, I am not much pleased with the arrangement myself. But they took a sudden fancy
for coming, and no amount of persuasion could induce them to change their minds. It's hardly
a suitable place for ladies; but if they will come, they must make the best of it."

"How came you ever to take a fancy to this place? and what makes you spend so much money on
it?" I asked.

"You don't like to see the money thrown away," he said, laughing. "The truth is, that I've
got a skeleton, like many another man, and I've been trying these two years to get away from
it. The first time I stopped to rest under this tree, I felt light-hearted. I don't know why,
except it was some mysterious influence; but I loved the place, and I love it no less now,
although my skeleton has found a lodging-place here too."

"Of course," I said, "and very appropriately. The house was haunted before you came."

"It was haunted for me afterward," he said softly, more to himself than to me; "sweet, shadowy
visions I should be glad to call up now." And he turned away and swallowed a sigh.

I pitied him all the way home, and sat up to pity him, looking through the soft May starlight
to see the lamp burning steadily at his window until after midnight. From that time I seemed
to have a trouble,--though I could scarcely have named or owned it, it was so indefinite.

He came to see me a few days afterward, and sat quite dull and abstracted until I warmed him
up with a little lively opposition. I vexed him first, and then, when I saw he was interested
enough to talk, I let him have a chance; and I had never seen him so interesting. He showed
me a new phase of his character, and I listened, and answered him in as few words as possible,
that I might lose nothing of the revelation. When he got up to go away, I asked him where he
had been to learn and think so much since the last autumn. He began to be, I thought and hoped,
what a sterner teaching might have made him before.

He seemed a little embarrassed; said no one else had discovered any change in him, and he thought
it must be only a reflected light. He had observed that I had "a remarkable faculty for drawing
people out. What was my witchcraft?"

I disclaimed all witchcraft, and told him it was only because I quarrelled with people. A little
wholesome opposition had warmed him into quite a flight of fancy.

"If I could only,"----he began, hurriedly; but took out his watch, said it was time for him
to go, and went off quite hastily. It was very weak in me, but I wished very much to know what
he would have said.

The next time, he called a few moments to tell me that his lady-visitors, with a friend of
theirs, had come, and had expressed a wish to make my acquaintance. He promised them that he
would call and let me know,--though he hoped I would not come, unless I felt inclined. He was
very absent-minded, and went off the moment I asked him where he had left his good spirits.
This made me a little cold to him when I called on the ladies, for I found them all sitting
after tea out at the door. It was a miserably constrained affair, though we all tried to be
civil,--for I could see that both ladies were taking, or trying to take, my measure, and it
did not set me at ease in the least. But in the mean time I had measured them; and as experience
has confirmed that first impression, I may as well sketch them here. I protest, in the first
place, against any imputation of prejudice or jealousy. I thought much more charitably of them
than others did.

Mrs. Winslow was one of those pleasant, well-bred ladies, who can look at you until you are
obliged to look away, contradict you flatly, and say the most grossly impertinent things in
the mildest voice and choicest words. A woman of the world, without nobility enough to appreciate
a magnanimous thought or action, and with very narrow, shallow views of everything about her,
she had still some agreeable traits of character,--much shrewd knowledge of the world, as she
saw it, some taste for Art, and an excellent judgment in relation to all things appertaining
to polite society. I had really some pleasant intercourse with her, although I think she was
one of the most insulting persons I ever met. I made a point of never letting her get any advantage
of me, and so we got along very well. Whenever she had a chance, she was sure to say something
that would mortify or hurt me; and I never failed to repay both principal and interest with
a voice and face as smooth as hers. And here let me say that there is no other way of dealing
with such people. Self-denial, modesty, magnanimity, they do not and cannot understand. Never
turn them the other cheek, but give a smart slap back again. It will do them good.

The daughter was a very pretty, artificial, silly girl, who might have been very amiable in
a different position, and was not ill-natured as it was. I might have liked her very well,
if she had not conceived such a wonderful liking for me, and hugged and kissed me as much as
she did. She cooed, too, and I dislike to hear a woman coo; it is a sure mark of inferiority.

We were quite intimate soon, and Miss Lucy fell into the habit of coming early in the morning
to ride with me, and after dinner to sit and sew, and after tea for a walk. She showed me all
her heart, apparently, though there was not much of it, and vowed that she scarcely knew how
she should exist without me. I let her play at liking me, just as I should have indulged a
playful kitten, and tried to say and do something that might improve her for Mr. Ames's sake.
I saw now what his skeleton was. He was to marry the poor child, and shrunk from it as I should
have shrunk from a shallow husband.

He used to come with her sometimes, and I must confess that he behaved admirably. I never saw
him in the least rude, or ill-natured, or contemptuous towards her, even when she was silliest
and tried his patience most severely; and I felt my respect for him increasing every day. As
for Mrs. Winslow, she came sometimes to see me, and was very particular to invite me there;
but I saw that she watched both me and Mr. Ames, and suspected that she had come to Huntsville
for that purpose. She sought every opportunity, too, of making me seem awkward or ignorant
before him; and he perceived it, I know, and was mortified and annoyed by it, though he left
the chastisement entirely to me. Once in a while Cousin Mary and I had a real old-fashioned
visit from him all alone, either when it was very stormy, or when the ladies were visiting
elsewhere. He always came serious and abstracted, and went away in good spirits, and he said
that those few hours were the pleasantest he passed. Mrs. Winslow looked on them with an evil
eye, I knew, and suspected a great deal of which we were all innocent; for one day, when she
had been dining at my house with her daughter, and we were all out in the garden together,
I overheard her saying,--

"She is just the person to captivate him, and you mustn't bring yourself into competition with
her, Lucy. She can out-shine you in conversation, and I know that she is playing a deep game."

"La, ma!" the girl exclaimed. "An old maid, without the least style! and she makes butter too,
and actually climbs up in a chair to scrub down her closets,--for Edward and I caught her at
it one day."

"And did she seem confused?" asked Mrs. Winslow.

"No, indeed! Now I should have died, if he had caught me in such a plight; but she shook down
her dress as though it were a matter of course, and they were soon talking about some German
stuff,--I don't know what it was,--while I had to amuse myself with the drawings."

"That's the way!" retorted the mother. "You play dummy for them. I wish you had a little more
spirit, Lucy. You wouldn't play into the hands of this designing"----

"Nonsense, mamma! She's a real clever, good-natured old thing, and I like her," exclaimed the
daughter. "You're so suspicious!"

"You're so foolishly secure!" answered mamma. "A man is never certain until after the ceremony;
and you don't know Edward Ames, Lucy."

"I know he's got plenty of money, mother, and I know he's real nice and handsome," was the
reply; and they walked out of hearing.

I wouldn't have listened even to so much as that, if I could have avoided it; and as soon as
I could, I went into the parlor, and sat down to some work, trying to keep down that old trouble,
which somehow gathered size like a rolling snowball. I might have known what it was, if I had
not closed my eyes resolutely, and said to myself, "The summer will soon be gone, and there
will be an end of it all then"; and I winced, as I said it, like one who sees a blow coming.

The summer went by imperceptibly; it was autumn, and still all things remained outwardly as
they had been. We went back and forth continually, rode and walked out, sang and read together,
and Lucy grew fonder and fonder of me. She could scarcely live out of my presence, and confided
to me all her plans when she and Edward should be married,--how much she thought of him, and
he of her, all about their courtship, how he declared himself and how she accepted him one
soft moonlight night in far Italy, how agitated and distressed he had been when she had a fever,
and a thousand other details which swelled that great stone in my heart more and more. But
I shut my eyes, until one day when I saw them together. He was listening, intent, and very
pale, to something she told him, and, to my surprise, she was pale too, and weeping. Before
she could finish, she broke into a passionate rush of tears, and would have thrown herself
at his feet; but he caught her, and she sunk down upon his shoulder, and he stooped towards
her as he might if he had loved her. Then I knew how I loved him.

I had to bear up a little while, for they were in my house, and I must bid them good-night,
and talk idly, so that they should not suspect the wound I had. But I must do something, or
go mad; and so I went out to the garden-wall, and struck my hand upon it until the blood ran.
The pain of that balanced the terrible pain within for a few moments, and I went in to them
calm and smiling. They were sitting on the sofa, he with a perplexed, pale face, and she blushing
and radiant. They started up when they saw my hand bandaged, and she was full of sympathy for
my hurt. He said but little, though he looked fixedly at my face. I know I must have looked
strangely. When they were gone, I went into my chamber and shut the door, with some such feeling
as I should have closed the entrance of a tomb behind me forever. I fought myself all that
night. My heart was hungry and cried out for food, and I would promise it none at all. Is there
anyone who thinks that youth has monopolized all the passion of life, all the rapture, all
the wild despair? Let them breast the deep, strong current of middle life.

I never could quite recollect how that last month went away. I know that I kept myself incessantly
occupied, and that I saw them almost daily, without departing from the tone of familiar friendship
I had worn throughout, although my heart was full of jealousy and a fast-growing hatred that
would not be quelled. Not for a thousand happy loves would I have let them see my humiliation.
I was even afraid that already he might suspect it, for his manner was changed. Sometimes he
was distant, sometimes sad, and sometimes almost tenderer than a friend.

It got to be October, and I felt that I could not bear such a state of things any longer, and
questioned within myself whether I had better not leave home for a while. If I had been alone,
it would have been easy; but my cousin Mary was still with me, and I could give no good reason
for such a step. Before I had settled upon anything, Lucy came to me in great distress, with
a confession that Mr. Ames was somehow turned against her, and that she was almost heart-broken
about it. If she lost him, she must die; for she had so long looked upon him as her husband,
and loved him so well, that life would be nothing without him. What should she do? Would I
advise her?

I didn't know, until long afterward, that it was a consummate piece of acting, dictated by
the mother, and that she was as heartless as it was possible for a young girl to be; and while
she lay weeping at my feet, I pitied her, and wondered if, perhaps, there might not be some
spring of generous feeling in her heart, that a happy love would unlock. The next morning I
went out alone, for a ride, in a direction where I thought I could not be disturbed. Up hill
and down, over roads, pastures, and streams, I tore until the fever within was allayed, and
then I stopped to rest, and look upon the beauties of the bright October day. All overhead
and around, the sky and patches of water were of that far-looking blue which seems all ready
to open upon new and wonderful worlds. Big, bright drops of a night-shower lay asleep in the
curled-up leaves, as though the trees had stretched out a million hands to catch them. And
such hands! What comparison could match them? Clouds of butterflies, such as sleep among the
flowers of Paradise,--forgotten dreams of children, who sleep and smile,--fancies of fairy
laureates, strung shining together for some high festival,--anything most rich or unreal, might
furnish a type for the foliage that was painted upon the golden blue of that October day. I
could almost have forgotten my trouble in the charmed gaze.

"You turn up in strange places, Rachel!" said a voice behind me.

This was what I had dreaded; but I swallowed love and fear in one great gulp, and shut my teeth
with a resolution of iron. I would not be guilty of the meanness of standing in that child's
way, if she were but a fool; so I answered him gayly.

"'The same to yourself,' as Neighbor Dawkins would say. Why didn't you all go to the lake,
as you planned last night?"

"For some good reasons. Were you bewitched, that you stood here so still?" He looked brightly
into my face, as he came up.

"No,--but the trees are. Shouldn't you think that Oberon had held high court here over-night?"

"And that they had left their wedding-dresses upon the boughs? Yes, they are gay enough! But
where have you been these four weeks, that I haven't got speech with you?"

"A pretty question, when you've been at my house almost every day! Where are your senses, man?"

"I know too well where they are," he said. "But I've wanted a good talk with you, face to face,--not
with a veil of commonplace people between. You're not yourself among them. I like you best
when your spirits are a little ruffled, and your eye kindles, and your lip curls, as it does
now,--not when you say, "No, Sir," or "Yes, Ma'am," and smile as though it were only skin-deep."

I started my horse.

"Let's be going, Jessie," I said. "It's our duty to feel insulted. He accuses your mistress
of being deceitful among her friends, and says he likes her when she's cross."

He laughed lightly, and walked along by my side.

"How are your ladies? and when will Miss Lucy come to ride out with me?" I asked, fearing a
look into his eyes.

This brought him down. I knew it would.

He answered that she was well, and walked along with his head down, quite like another man.
At length he looked up, very pale, and put his hand on my bridle.

"I want to put a case to you," he said. "Suppose a man to have made some engagement before
his mind was mature, and under a strong outside pressure of which he was not aware. When he
grows to a better knowledge of the world and himself, and finds that he has been half cheated,
and that to keep his word will entail lasting misery and ruin on himself, without really benefiting
any one else, is he bound to keep it?"

I stopped an instant to press my heart back, and then I answered him.

"A promise is a promise, Mr. Ames. I have thought that a man of honor valued his word more
than happiness or life."

He flushed a moment, and then looked down again; and we walked on slowly, without a word, over
the stubbly ground, and through brooklets and groves and thickets, towards home. If I could
only reach there before he spoke again! How could I hold out to do my duty, if I were tempted
any farther? At last he checked the horse, and, putting his hand heavily on mine, looked me
full in the face, while his was pale and agitated.

"Rachel," he said, huskily, "if a man came to you and said, 'I am bound to another; but my
heart, my soul, my life are at your feet,' would you turn him away?"

I gasped one long breath of fresh air.

"Do I look like a woman who would take a man's love at second hand?" I said, haughtily. "Women
like me must respect the man they marry, Sir."

He dropped his hand, and turned away his head, with a deep-drawn breath. I saw him stoop and
lift himself again, as though some weight were laid upon his shoulders. I saw the muscles round
and ridgy upon his clenched hand. "All this for a silly, shallow thing, who knows nothing of
the heart she loses!" some tempter whispered, and passionate words of love rushed up and beat
hard against my shut teeth. "Get thee behind me!" I muttered, and resolutely started my horse
forward. "Not for her,--but for myself,--for self-respect! The best love in the world shall
not buy that!"

He came along beside me, silent, and stepping heavily, and thus we went to the leafy lane that
came out near my house. There I stopped; for I felt that this must end now.

"Mr. Ames, you must leave this place, directly," I said, with as much sternness as I could
assume. "If you please, I will bid you good-bye, now."

"Not see you again, Rachel?" he exclaimed, sharply. "No! not that! Forgive me, if I have said
too much; but don't send me away!"

He took my hand in both his, and gazed as one might for a sentence of life or death.

"Will you let a woman's strength shame you?" I cried, desperately. "I thought you were a man
of honor, Mr. Ames. I trusted you entirely, but I will never trust any one again."

He dropped my hand, and drew himself up.

"You are right, Rachel! you are right," he said, after a moment's thought. "No one must trust
me, and be disappointed. I have never forgotten that before; please God, I never will again.
But must I say farewell here?"

"It is better," I said.

"Good-bye, then, dear friend!--dear friend!" he whispered. "If you ever love any better than
yourself, you will know how to forgive me."

I felt his kiss on my hand, and felt, rather than saw, his last look, for I dared not raise
my eyes to his; and I knew that he had turned back, and that I had seen the last of him. For
one instant I thought I would follow and tell him that he did not suffer alone; but before
my horse was half turned, I was myself again.

"Fool!" I said. "If you let the dam down, can you push the waters back again? Would that man
let anything upon earth stand between him and a woman that loved him? Let him go so. He'll
forget you in six months."

I had to endure a farewell call from Lucy and her mother. Mr. Ames had received a sudden summons
home, and they were to accompany him a part of the way. The elder scrutinized me very closely,
but I think she got nothing to satisfy her; the younger kissed and shed tears enough for the
parting of twin sisters. How I hated her! In a couple of days they were gone, Mr. Ames calling
to see me when he knew me to be out, and leaving a civil message only. The house was closed,
the faded leaves fell all about the doorway, and the grass withered upon the little lawn.

"That play is over, and the curtain dropped," I said to myself, as I took one long look towards
the old house, and closed the shutters that opened that way.

You who have suffered some great loss, and stagger for want of strength to walk alone, thank
God for work. Nothing like that for bracing up a feeble heart! I worked restlessly from morning
till night, and often encroached on what should have been sleep. Hard work, real sinewy labor,
was all that would content me; and I found enough of it. To have been a proper heroine, I suppose
I should have devoted myself to works of charity, read sentimental poetry, and folded my hands
very meekly and prettily; but I did no such thing. I ripped up carpets, and scoured paint,
and swept down cobwebs, I made sweetmeats and winter clothing, I dug up and set out trees,
and smoothed the turf in my garden, and tramped round my fields with the man behind me, to
see if the fences needed mending, or if the marshes were properly drained, or the fallow land
wanted ploughing. It made me better. All the sickliness of my grief passed away, and only the
deep-lying regret was left like a weight to which my heart soon became accustomed. We can manage
trouble much better than we often do, if we only choose to try resolutely.

I had but one relapse. It was when I got news of their marriage. I remember the day with a
peculiar distinctness; for it was the first snow-storm of the season, and I had been out walking
all the afternoon. It was one of those soft, leaden-colored, expectant days, of late autumn
or early winter, when one is sure of snow; and I went out on purpose to see it fall among the
woods; for it was just upon Christmas, and I longed to see the black ground covered. By-and-by
a few flakes sauntered down, coquetting as to where they would alight; then a few more followed,
thickening and thickening until the whole upper air was alive with them, and the frozen ridges
whitened along their backs, and every little stiff blade of grass or rush or dead bush held
all it could carry. It was pleasant to see the quiet wonder go on, until the landscape was
completely changed,--to walk home scuffing the snow from the frozen road on which my feet had
ground as I came that way, and see the fences full, and the hollows heaped up level, and the
birches bent down with their hair hidden, and the broad arms of the fir-trees loaded, like
sombre cotton-pickers going home heavily laden. Then to see the brassy streak widen in the
west, and the cold moon hang astonished upon the dead tops of some distant pine-trees, was
to enjoy a most beautiful picture, with only the cost of a little fatigue.

When I got home, I found among my letters one from Mr. Ames. He could not leave the country
without pleading once more for my esteem, he wrote. He had not intended to marry until he could
think more calmly of the past; but Lucy's mother had married again very suddenly into a family
where her daughter found it not pleasant to follow her. She was poor, without very near relatives
now, and friends, on both sides, had urged the marriage. He had told her the state of his feelings,
and offered, if she could overlook the want of love, to be everything else to her. She should
never repent the step, and he prayed me, when I thought of him, to think as leniently as possible.
Alas! now I must not think at all.

How I fought that thought,--how I worked by day, and studied deep into the night, filling every
hour full to the brim with activity, seems now a feverish dream to me. Such dead thoughts will
not be buried out of sight, but lie cold and stiff, until the falling foliage of seasons of
labor and experience eddies round them, and moss and herbs venture to grow over their decay,
and birds come slowly and curiously to sing a little there. In time, the mound is beautiful
with the richness of the growth, but the lord of the manor shudders as he walks that way. For
him, it is always haunted.

Thus with me. I knew that the sorrow was doing me good, that it had been needed long, and I
tried to profit by it, as the time came when I could think calmly of it all. I thought I had
ceased to love him; but the news of her death (for she died in two years) taught me better.
I heard of him from others,--that he had been most tender and indulgent to a selfish, heartless
woman, who trifled with his best feelings, and almost broke his heart before she went. I heard
that he had one child, a poor little blind baby, for whom the mother had neither love nor care,
and that he still continued abroad. But from himself I never heard a word. No doubt he had
forgotten me, as I had always thought he would.

More than two years passed, and spring-time was upon us, when I heard that he had returned
to the country, and was to be married shortly to a wealthy, beautiful widow he had found abroad.
At first we heard that he was married, and then that he was making great preparations, but
would not marry until autumn. Even the bride's dress was described, and the furniture of the
house of which she was to be mistress. I had expected some such thing, but it added one more
drop of bitterness to the yearning I had for him. It was so hard to think him like any other man!

However, now, as before, I covered up the wound with a smiling face, and went about my business.
I had been making extensive improvements on my farm, and kept out all day often, over-seeing
the laborers. One night, a soft, starlight evening in late May, I came home very tired, and,
being quite alone, sat down on the portico to watch the stars and think. I had not been long
there, when a man's step came up the avenue, and some person, I could not tell who in the darkness,
opened the gate, and came slowly up towards me. I rose, and bade him good-evening.

"Is it you, Rachel?" he said, quite faintly. It was his voice. Thank Heaven for the darkness!
The hand I gave him might tremble, but my face should betray nothing. I invited him into the
parlor, and rang for lights.

"He's come to see about selling the old house," I thought; there was a report that he would
sell it by auction. When the lights came, he looked eagerly at me.

"Am I much changed?" I said, with a half-bitter smile.

"Not so much as I," he answered, sighing and looking down;--he seemed to be in deep thought
for a moment.

He was much changed. His hair was turning gray; his face was thin, with a subdued expression
I had never expected to see him wear. He must have suffered greatly; and, as I looked, my heart
began to melt. That would not do; and besides, what was the need of pity, when he had consoled
himself? I asked some ordinary question about his journey, and led him into a conversation
on foreign travel.

The evening passed away as it might with two strangers, and he rose to go, with a grave face
and manner as cold as mine,--for I had been very cold. I followed him to the door, and asked
how long he stayed at Huntsville.

Only a part of the next day, he said; his child could not be left any longer; but he wished
very much to see me, and so had contrived to get a few days.

"Indeed!" I said. "You honor me. Your Huntsville friends scarcely expected to be remembered
so long."

"They have not done me justice, then," he said, quietly. "I seem to have the warmest recollection
of any. Good-night, Miss Mead. I shall not be likely to see you again."

He gave me his hand, but it was very cold, and I let it slip as coldly from mine. He went down
the gravel-walk slowly and heavily, and he certainly sighed as he closed the gate. Could I
give him up thus? "Down pride! You have held sway long enough! I must part more kindly, or
die!" I ran down the gravel-walk and overtook him in the avenue. He stopped as I came up, and
turned to meet me.

"Forgive me," I said, breathlessly. "I could not part with old friends so, after wishing so
much for them."

He took both my hands in his. "Have you wished for me, Rachel?" he said, tenderly. "I thought
you would scarcely have treated a stranger with so little kindness."

"I was afraid to be warmer," I said.

"Afraid of what?" he asked.

My mouth was unsealed. "Are you to be married?" I asked.

"I have no such expectation," he answered.

"And are not engaged to any one?"

"To nothing but an old love, dear! Was that why you were afraid to show yourself to me?"

"Yes!" I answered, making no resistance to the arm that was put gently round me. He was mine
now, I knew, as I felt the strong heart beating fast against my own.

"Rachel," he whispered, "the only woman I ever did or ever can love, will you send me away again?"

A SHETLAND SHAWL.

    It was made of the purest and finest wool,
    As fine as silk, and as soft and cool;
    It was pearly white, of that cloud-like hue
    Which has a shadowy tinge of blue;
    And brought by the good ship, miles and miles,
    From the distant shores of the Shetland Isles.

    And in it were woven, here and there,
    The golden threads of a maiden's hair,
    As the wanton wind with tosses and twirls
    Blew in and out of her floating curls,
    While her busy fingers swiftly drew
    The ivory needle through and through.

    The warm sun flashed on the brilliant dyes
    Of the purple and golden butterflies,
    And the drowsy bees, with a changeless tune,
    Hummed in the perfumed air of June,
    As the gossamer fabric, fair to view,
    Under the maiden's fingers grew.

    The shadows of tender thought arise
    In the tranquil depths of her dreamy eyes,
    And her blushing cheek bears the first impress
    Of the spirit's awakening consciousness,
    Like the rose, when it bursts, in a single hour,
    From the folded bud to the perfect flower.

    Many a tremulous hope and care,
    Many a loving wish and prayer,
    With the blissful dreams of one who stood
    At the golden gate of womanhood,
    The little maiden's tireless hands
    Wove in and out of the shining strands.

    The buds that burst in an April sun
    Had seen the wonderful shawl begun;
    It was finished, and folded up with pride,
    When the vintage purpled the mountain-side;
    And smiles made light in the violet eyes,
    At the thought of a lover's pleased surprise.

    The spider hung from the budding thorn
    His baseless web, when the shawl was worn;
    And the cobwebs, silvered by the dew,
    With the morning sunshine breaking through,
    The maiden's toil might well recall,
    In the vanished year, on the Shetland Shawl.

    For the rose had died in the autumn showers,
    That bloomed in the summer's golden hours;
    And the shining tissue of hopes and dreams,
    With misty glories and rainbow gleams
    Woven within and out, was one
    Like the slender thread by the spider spun.

    As fresh and as pure as the sad young face,
    The snowy shawl with its clinging grace
    Seems a fitting veil for a form so fair:
    But who would think what a tale of care,
    Of love and grief and faith, might all
    Be folded up in a Shetland Shawl?

ROBA DI ROMA.

[Continued.]

CHAPTER VI.

GAMES IN ROME.

Walking, during pleasant weather, almost anywhere in Rome, but especially in passing through
the enormous arches of the Temple of Peace, or along by the Colosseum, or some wayside osteria
outside the city-walls, the ear of the traveller is often saluted by the loud, explosive tones
of two voices going off together, at little intervals, like a brace of pistol-shots; and turning
round to seek the cause of these strange sounds, he will see two men, in a very excited state,
shouting, as they fling out their hands at each other with violent gesticulation. Ten to one
he will say to himself, if he be a stranger in Rome, "How quarrelsome and passionate these
Italians are!" If he be an Englishman or an American, he will be sure to congratulate himself
on the superiority of his own countrymen, and wonder why these fellows stand there shaking
their fists at each other, and screaming, instead of fighting it out like men,--and muttering,
"A cowardly pack, too!" will pass on, perfectly satisfied with his facts and his philosophy.
But what he has seen was really not a quarrel. It is simply the game of Mora, as old as the
Pyramids, and formerly played among the host of Pharaoh and the armies of Cæsar as now by the
subjects of Pius IX. It is thus played.

Two persons place themselves opposite each other, holding their right hands closed before them.
They then simultaneously and with a sudden gesture throw out their hands, some of the fingers
being extended, and others shut up on the palm,--each calling out in a loud voice, at the same
moment, the number he guesses the fingers extended by himself and his adversary to make. If
neither cry out aright, or if both cry out aright, nothing is gained or lost; but if only one
guess the true number, he wins a point. Thus, if one throw out four fingers and the other two,
he who cries out six makes a point, unless the other cry out the same number. The points are
generally five, though sometimes they are doubled, and as they are made, they are marked by
the left hand, which, during the whole game, is held stiffly in the air at about the shoulders'
height, one finger being extended for every point. When the partito is won, the winner cries
out, "Fatto!" or "Guadagnato!" or "Vinto!" or else strikes his hands across each other in sign
of triumph. This last sign is also used when Double Mora is played, to indicate that five points
are made.

So universal is this game in Rome, that the very beggars play away their earnings at it. It
was only yesterday, as I came out of the gallery of the Capitol, that I saw two who had stopped
screaming for "baiocchi per amor di Dio," to play pauls against each other at Mora. One, a
cripple, supported himself against a column, and the other, with his ragged cloak slung on
his shoulder, stood opposite him. They staked a paul each time with the utmost nonchalance,
and played with an earnestness and rapidity which showed that they were old hands at it, while
the coachmen from their boxes cracked their whips, and jeered and joked them, and the shabby
circle around them cheered them on. I stopped to see the result, and found that the cripple
won two successive games. But his cloaked antagonist bore his losses like a hero, and when
all was over, he did his best with the strangers issuing from the Capitol to line his pockets
for a new chance.

Nothing is more simple and apparently easy than Mora, yet to play it well requires quickness
of perception and readiness in the calculation of chances. As each player, of course, knows
how many fingers he himself throws out, the main point is to guess the number of fingers thrown
by his opponent, and to add the two instantaneously together. A player of skill will soon detect
the favorite numbers of his antagonist, and it is curious to see how remarkably clever some
of them are in divining, from the movement of the hand, the number to be thrown. The game is
always played with great vivacity, the hands being flung out with vehemence, and the numbers
shouted at the full pitch of the voice, so as to be heard at a considerable distance. It is
from the sudden opening of the fingers, while the hands are in the air, that the old Roman
phrase, micare digitis, "to flash with the fingers," is derived.

A bottle of wine is generally the stake; and round the osterias, of a festa-day, when the game
is played after the blood has been heated and the nerves strained by previous potations, the
regular volleyed explosions of "Tre! Cinque! Otto! Tutti!" are often interrupted by hot discussions.
But these are generally settled peacefully by the bystanders, who act as umpires,--and the
excitement goes off in talk. The question arises almost invariably upon the number of fingers
flashed out; for an unscrupulous player has great opportunities of cheating, by holding a finger
half extended, so as to be able to close or open it afterwards according to circumstances;
but sometimes the losing party will dispute as to the number called out. The thumb is the father
of all evil at Mora, it being often impossible to say whether it was intended to be closed
or not, and an unskilful player is easily deceived in this matter by a clever one. When "Tutti"
is called, all the fingers, thumb and all, must be extended, and then it is an even chance
that a discussion will take place as to whether the thumb was out. Sometimes, when the blood
is hot, and one of the parties has been losing, violent quarrels will arise, which the umpires
cannot decide, and, in very rare cases, knives are drawn and blood is spilled. Generally these
disputes end in nothing, and, often as I have seen this game, I have never been a spectator
of any quarrel, though discussions numberless I have heard. But, beyond vague stories by foreigners,
in which I put no confidence, the vivacity of the Italians easily leading persons unacquainted
with their characters to mistake a very peaceable talk for a violent quarrel, I know of only
one case that ended tragically. There a savage quarrel, begun at Mora, was with difficulty
pacified by the bystanders, and one of the parties withdrew to an osteria to drink with his
companions. But while he was there, the rage which had been smothered, but not extinguished,
in the breast of his antagonist, blazed out anew. Rushing at the other, as he sat by the table
of the osteria, he attacked him fiercely with his knife. The friends of both parties started
at once to their feet, to interpose and tear them apart; but before they could reach them,
one of the combatants dropped bleeding and dying on the floor, and the other fled like a maniac
from the room.

This readiness of the Italians to use the knife, for the settlement of every dispute, is generally
attributed by foreigners to the passionateness of their nature; but I am inclined to believe
that it also results from their entire distrust of the possibility of legal redress in the
courts. Where courts are organized as they are in Naples, who but a fool would trust to them?
Open tribunals, where justice should be impartially administered, would soon check private
assassinations; and were there more honest and efficient police courts, there would be far
fewer knives drawn. The Englishman invokes the aid of the law, knowing that he can count upon
prompt justice; take that belief from him, he, too, like Harry Gow, would "fight for his own
hand." In the half-organized society of the less civilized parts of the United States, the
pistol and bowie-knife are as frequent arbiters of disputes as the stiletto is among the Italians.
But it would be a gross error to argue from this, that the Americans are violent and passionate
by nature; for, among the same people in the older States, where justice is cheaply and strictly
administered, the pistol and bowie-knife are almost unknown. Despotism and slavery nurse the
passions of men; and wherever law is loose, or courts are venal, public justice assumes the
shape of private vengeance. The farther south one goes in Italy, the more frequent is violence
and the more unrepressed are the passions. Compare Piedmont with Naples, and the difference
is immense. The dregs of vice and violence settle to the south. Rome is worse than Tuscany,
and Naples worse than Rome,--not so much because of the nature of the people, as of the government
and the laws.

But to return to Mora. As I was walking out beyond the Porta San Giovanni the other day, I
heard the most ingenious and consolatory periphrasis for a defeat that it was ever my good-fortune
to hear; and, as it shows the peculiar humor of the Romans, it may here have a place. Two of
a party of contadini had been playing at Mora, the stakes being, as usual, a bottle of wine,
and each, in turn, had lost and won. A lively and jocose discussion now arose between the friends
on the one side and the players on the other,--the former claiming that each of the latter
was to pay his bottle of wine for the game he lost, (to be drunk, of course, by all,) and the
latter insisting, that, as one loss offset the other, nothing was to be paid by either. As
I passed, one of the players was speaking. "Il primo partito," he said, "ho guadagnato io;
e poi, nel secondo,"--here a pause,--"ho perso la vittoria": "The first game, I won; the second,
I----lost the victory." And with this happy periphrasis, our friend admitted his defeat. I
could not but think how much better it would have been for the French, if this ingenious mode
of adjusting with the English the Battle of Waterloo had ever occurred to them. To admit that
they were defeated was of course impossible; but to acknowledge that they "lost the victory"
would by no means have been humiliating. This would have soothed their irritable national vanity,
prevented many heart-burnings, saved long and idle arguments and terrible "kicking against
the pricks," and rendered a friendly alliance possible.

No game has a better pedigree than Mora. It was played by the Egyptians more than two thousand
years before the Christian era. In the paintings at Thebes and in the temples of Beni-Hassan,
seated figures may be seen playing it,--some keeping their reckoning with the left hand uplifted,--some
striking off the game with both hands, to show that it was won,--and, in a word, using the
same gestures as the modern Romans. From Egypt it was introduced into Greece. The Romans brought
it from Greece at an early period, and it has existed among them ever since, having suffered
apparently no alteration. Its ancient Roman name was Micatio, and to play it was called micare
digitis,--"to flash the fingers,"--the modern name Mora being merely a corruption of the verb
micare. Varro describes it precisely as it is now played; and Cicero, in the first book of
his treatise "De Divinatione," thus alludes to it:--"Quid enim est sors? Idem propemodum quod
micare, quod talos jacere, quod tesseras; quibus in rebus temeritas et casus, non ratio et
consilium valent." So common was it, that it became the basis of an admirable proverb, to denote
the honesty of a person:--"Dignus est quicum in tenebris mices": "So trustworthy, that one
may play Mora with him in the dark." At one period they carried their love of it so far, that
they used to settle by micatio the sales of merchandise and meat in the Forum, until Apronius,
prefect of the city, prohibited the practice in the following terms, as appears by an old inscription,
which is particularly interesting as containing an admirable pun: "Sub exagio potius pecora
vendere quam digitis concludentibus tradere": "Sell your sheep by the balance, and do not bargain
or deceive" (tradere having both these meanings) "by opening and shutting your fingers at Mora."

One of the various kinds of the old Roman game of Pila still survives under the modern name
of Pallone. It is played between two sides, each numbering from five to eight persons. Each
of the players is armed with a bracciale, or gantlet of wood, covering the hand and extending
nearly up to the elbow, with which a heavy ball is beaten backwards and forwards, high into
the air, from one side to the other. The object of the game is to keep the ball in constant
flight, and whoever suffers it to fall dead within his bounds loses. It may, however, be struck
in its rebound, though the best strokes are before it touches the ground. The bracciali are
hollow tubes of wood, thickly studded outside with pointed bosses, projecting an inch and a
half, and having inside, across the end, a transverse bar, which is grasped by the hand, so
as to render them manageable to the wearer. The balls, which are of the size of a large cricket-ball,
are made of leather, and are so heavy, that, when well played, they are capable of breaking
the arm, unless properly received on the bracciale. They are inflated with air, which is pumped
into them with a long syringe, through a small aperture closed by a valve inside. The game
is played on an oblong figure, marked out on the ground, or designated by the wall around the
sunken platform on which it is played; across the centre is drawn a transverse line, dividing
equally the two sides. Whenever a ball either falls outside the lateral boundary or is not
struck over the central line, it counts against the party playing it. When it flies over the
extreme limits, it is called a volata, and is reckoned the best stroke that can be made. At
the end of the lists is a spring-board, on which the principal player stands. The best batter
is always selected for this post; the others are distributed about. Near him stands the pallonaio,
whose office is to keep the balls well inflated with air, and he is busy nearly all the time.
Facing him, at a short distance, is the mandarino, who gives ball. As soon as the ball leaves
the mandarino's hand, the chief batter runs forward to meet it, and strikes it as far and high
as he can, with the bracciale. Four times in succession have I seen a good player strike a
volata, with the loud applause of the spectators. When this does not occur, the two sides bat
the ball backwards and forwards, from one to the other, sometimes fifteen or twenty times before
the point is won; and as it falls here and there, now flying high in the air and caught at
once on the bracciale before touching the ground, now glancing back from the wall which generally
forms one side of the lists, the players rush eagerly to hit it, calling loudly to each other,
and often displaying great agility, skill, and strength. The interest now becomes very exciting;
the bystanders shout when a good stroke is made, and groan and hiss at a miss, until, finally,
the ball is struck over the lists, or lost within them. The points of the game are fifty,--the
first two strokes counting fifteen each, and the others ten each. When one side makes the fifty
before the other has made anything, it is called a marcio, and counts double. As each point
is made, it is shouted by the caller, who stands in the middle and keeps the count, and proclaims
the bets of the spectators.

This game is as national to the Italians as cricket to the English; it is not only, as it seems
to me, much more interesting than the latter, but requires vastly more strength, agility, and
dexterity, to play it well. The Italians give themselves to it with all the enthusiasm of their
nature, and many a young fellow injures himself for life by the fierceness of his batting.
After the excitement and stir of this game, which only the young and athletic can play well,
cricket seems a very dull affair.

The game of Pallone has always been a favorite one in Rome; and near the summit of the Quattro
Fontane, in the Barberini grounds, there is a circus, which used to be specially devoted to
public exhibitions during the summer afternoons. At these representations, the most renowned
players were engaged by an impresario. The audience was generally large, and the entrance-fee
was one paul. Wonderful feats were sometimes performed here; and on the wall are marked the
heights of some remarkable volate. The players were clothed in a thin, tight dress, like saltimbanchi.
One side wore a blue, and the other a red ribbon, on the arm. The contests, generally, were
fiercely disputed,--the spectators betting heavily, and shouting, as good or bad strokes were
made. Sometimes a line was extended across the amphitheatre, from wall to wall, over which
it was necessary to strike the ball, a point being lost in case it passed below. But this is
a variation from the game as ordinarily played, and can be ventured on only when the players
are of the first force. The games here, however, are now suspended; for the French, since their
occupation, have not only seized the post-office, to convert it into a club-room, and the piano
nobile of some of the richest palaces, to serve as barracks for their soldiers, but have also
driven the Romans from their amphitheatre, where Pallone was played, to make it into ateliers
de génie. Still, one may see the game played by ordinary players, towards the twilight of any
summer day, in the Piazza di Termini, or near the Tempio della Pace, or the Colosseo. The boys
from the studios and shops also play in the streets a sort of mongrel game called Pillotta,
beating a small ball back and forth, with a round bat, shaped like a small tamburello and covered
with parchment. But the real game, played by skilful players, may be seen almost every summer
night outside the Porta a Pinti, in Florence; and I have also seen it admirably played under
the fortress-wall at Siena, the players being dressed entirely in white, with loose ruffled
jackets, breeches, long stockings, and shoes of undressed leather, and the audience sitting
round on the stone benches, or leaning over the lofty wall, cheering on the game, while they
ate the cherries or zucca-seeds which were hawked about among them by itinerant peddlers. Here,
towards twilight, one could lounge away an hour pleasantly under the shadow of the fortress,
looking now at the game and now at the rolling country beyond, where olives and long battalions
of vines marched knee-deep through the golden grain, until the purple splendors of sunset had
ceased to transfigure the distant hills, and the crickets chirped louder under the deepening
gray of the sky.

In the walls of the amphitheatre at Florence is a bust in colored marble of one of the most
famous players of his day, whose battered face seems still to preside over the game, getting
now and then a smart blow from the Pallone itself, which, in its inflation, is no respecter
of persons. The honorable inscription beneath the bust, celebrating the powers of this champion,
who rejoiced in the surname of Earthquake, is as follows:--

"Josephus Barnius, Petiolensis, vir in jactando repercutiendoque folle singularis, qui ob robur
ingens maximamque artis peritiam, et collusores ubique devictos, Terræmotus formidabili cognomento
dictus est."

Another favorite game of ball among the Romans is Bocce or Boccette. It is played between two
sides, consisting of any number of persons, each of whom has two large wooden balls of about
the size of an average American nine-pin ball. Beside these, there is a little ball called
the lecco. This is rolled first by one of the winning party to any distance he pleases, and
the object is to roll or pitch the boccette or large balls so as to place them beside the lecco.
Every ball of one side nearer to the lecco than any ball of the other counts one point in the
game,--the number of points depending on the agreement of the parties. The game is played on
the ground, and not upon any smooth or prepared plane; and as the lecco often runs into hollows,
or poises itself on some uneven declivity, it is sometimes a matter of no small difficulty
to play the other balls near to it. The great skill of the game consists, however, in displacing
the balls of the adverse party so as to make the balls of the playing party count, and a clever
player will often change the whole aspect of affairs by one well-directed throw. The balls
are thrown alternately,--first by a player on one side, and then by a player on the other.
As the game advances, the interest increases, and there is a constant variety. However good
a throw is made, it may be ruined by the next. Sometimes the ball is pitched with great accuracy,
so as to strike a close-counting ball far into the distance, while the new ball takes its place.
Sometimes the lecco itself is suddenly transplanted into a new position, which entirely reverses
all the previous counting. It is the last ball which decides the game, and, of course, it is
eagerly watched. In the Piazza di Termini numerous parties may be seen every bright day in
summer or spring playing this game under the locust-trees, surrounded by idlers, who stand
by to approve or condemn, and to give their advice. The French soldiers, once free from drill
or guard or from practising trumpet-calls on the old Agger of Servius Tullius near by, are
sure to be rolling balls in this fascinating game. Having heated their blood sufficiently at
it, they adjourn to a little osteria in the Piazza to refresh themselves with a glass of asciutto
wine, after which they sit on a bench outside the door, or stretch themselves under the trees,
and take a siesta, with their handkerchiefs over their eyes, while other parties take their
turn at the bocce. Meanwhile, from the Agger beyond are heard the distressing trumpets struggling
with false notes and wheezing and shrieking in ludicrous discord, while now and then the solemn
bell of Santa Maria Maggiore tolls from the neighboring hill.

Another favorite game in Rome and Tuscany is Ruzzola, so called from the circular disk of wood
with which it is played. Round this the player winds tightly a cord, which, by a sudden cast
and backward jerk of the hand, he uncoils so as to send the disk whirling along the road. Outside
the walls, and along all the principal avenues leading to the city, parties are constantly
to be met playing at this game; and oftentimes before the players are visible, the disk is
seen bounding round some curve, to the great danger of one's legs. He whose disk whirls the
farthest wins a point. It is an excellent walking game, and it requires some knack to play
the disk evenly along the road. Often the swiftest disks, when not well-directed, bound over
the hedges, knock themselves down against the walls, or bury themselves in the tangled ditches;
and when well played, if they chance to hit a stone in the road, they will leap like mad into
the air, at the risk of serious injury to any unfortunate passer. In the country, instead of
wooden disks, the contadini often use cacio di pecora, a kind of hard goat's cheese, whose
rind will resist the roughest play. What, then, must be the digestive powers of those who eat
it, may be imagined. Like the peptic countryman, they probably do not know they have a stomach,
not having ever felt it; and certainly they can say with Tony Lumpkin, "It never hurts me,
and I sleep like a hound after it."

In common with the French, the Romans have a passion for the game of Dominos. Every caffè is
supplied with a number of boxes, and, in the evening especially, it is played by young and
old, with a seriousness which strikes us Saxons with surprise. We generally have a contempt
for this game, and look upon it as childish. But I know not why. It is by no means easy to
play well, and requires a careful memory and quick powers of combination and calculation. No
caffè in Rome or Marseilles would be complete without its little black and white counters;
and as it interests at once the most mercurial and fidgety of people and the laziest and languidest,
it must have some hidden charm as yet unrevealed to the Anglo-Saxon.

Beside Dominos, Chess (Scacchi) is often played in public in the caffès; and there is one caffè
named Dei Scacchi, because it is frequented by the best chess-players in Rome. Here matches
are often made, and admirable games are played.

Among the Roman boys the game of Campana is also common. A parallelogram is drawn upon the
ground and subdivided into four squares, which are numbered. At the top and bottom are two
small semicircles, or bells, thus:--

Each of the players, having deposited his stake in the semicircle (b) at the farthest end,
takes his station at a short distance, and endeavors to pitch some object, either a disk or
a bit of terracotta, or more generally a baiocco, into one of the compartments. If he lodge
it in the nearest bell, (a,) he pays a new stake into the pool; if into the farthest bell,
(b,) he takes the whole pool; if into either of the other compartments, he takes one, two,
three, or four of the stakes, according to the number of the compartment. If he lodge on a
line, he is abbrucciato, as it is termed, and his play goes for nothing. Among the boys, the
pool is frequently filled with buttons,--among the men, with baiocchi; but buttons or baiocchi
are all the same to the players,--they are the representatives of luck or skill.

But the game of games in Rome is the Lottery. This is under the direction of the government,
which, with a truly ecclesiastic regard for its subjects, has organized it into a means of
raising revenue. The financial objection to this method of taxation is, that its hardest pressure
is upon the poorest classes; but the moral and political objections are still stronger. The
habit of gambling engendered by it ruins the temper, depraves the morals, and keeps up a constant
state of excitement at variance with any settled and serious occupation. The temptations to
laziness which it offers are too great for any people luxurious or idle by temperament; and
the demon of Luck is set upon the altar which should be dedicated to Industry. If one happy
chance can bring a fortune, who will spend laborious days to gain a competence? The common
classes in Rome are those who are most corrupted by the lottery; and when they can neither
earn nor borrow baiocchi to play, they strive to obtain them by beggary, cheating, and sometimes
theft. The fallacious hope that their ticket will some day bring a prize leads them from step
to step, until, having emptied their purses, they are tempted to raise the necessary funds
by any unjustifiable means. When you pay them their wages or throw them a buona-mano, they
instantly run to the lottery-office to play it. Loss after loss does not discourage them. It
is always, "The next time they are to win,--there was a slight mistake in their calculation
before." Some good reason or other is always at hand. If by chance one of them do happen to
win a large sum, it is ten to one that it will cost him his life,--that he will fall into a
fit, or drop in an apoplexy, on hearing the news. There is a most melancholy instance of this
in the very next house,--of a Jew made suddenly and unexpectedly rich, who instantly became
insane in consequence, and is now the most wretched and melancholy spectacle that man can ever
become,--starving in the midst of abundance, and moving like a beast about his house. But of
all ill luck that can happen to the lottery-gambler, the worst is to win a small prize. It
is all over with him from that time forward; into the great pit of the lottery everything that
he can lay his hands on is sure to go.

There has been some difference of opinion as to whether the lottery was of later Italian invention,
or dated back to the Roman Empire,--some even contending that it was in existence in Egypt
long before that period; and several ingenious discussions may be found on this subject in
the journals and annals of the French savans. A strong claim has been put forward for the ancient
Romans, on the ground that Nero, Titus, and Heliogabalus were in the habit of writing on bits
of wood and shells the names of various articles which they intended to distribute, and then
casting them to the crowd to be scrambled for.[A] On some of these shells and billets were
inscribed the names of slaves, precious vases, costly dresses, articles of silver and gold,
valuable beasts, etc., which became the property of the fortunate persons who secured the billets
and shells. On others were written absurd and useless articles, which turned the laugh against
the unfortunate finder. Some, for instance, had inscribed upon them ten pieces of gold, and
some ten cabbages. Some were for one hundred bears, and some for one egg. Some for five camels,
and some for ten flies. In one sense, these were lotteries, and the Emperors deserve all due
credit for their invention. But the lottery, according to its modern signification, is of Italian
origin, and had its birth in Upper Italy as early as the fourteenth or fifteenth century. Here
it was principally practised by the Venetians and Genoese, under the name of Borsa di Ventura,--the
prizes consisting originally, not of money, but of merchandise of every kind,--precious stones,
pictures, gold and silver work, and similar articles. The great difference between them and
the ancient lotteries of Heliogabalus and Nero was, that tickets were bought and prizes drawn.
The lottery soon came to be played, however, for money, and was considered so admirable an
invention, that it was early imported into France, where Francis I., in 1539, granted letters-patent
for the establishment of one. In the seventeenth century, this "infezione," as an old Italian
writer calls it, was introduced into Holland and England, and at a still later date into Germany.
Those who invented it still retain it; but those who adopted it have rejected it. After nearly
three centuries' existence in France, it was abolished on the 31st of December, 1835. The last
drawing was at Paris on the 27th of the same month, when the number of players was so great
that it became necessary to close the offices before the appointed time, and one Englishman
is said to have gained a quaterno of the sum of one million two hundred thousand francs. When
abolished in France, the government was drawing from it a net revenue of twenty million francs.

In Italy the lottery was proscribed by Innocent XII., Benedict XIII., and Clement XII. But
it was soon revived. It was not without vehement opposers then as now, as may be seen by a
little work published at Pisa in the early part of the last century, entitled, "L'Inganno non
conosciuto, oppure non voluto conoscere, nell'Estrazione del Lotto." Muratori, in 1696, calls
it, in his "Annals of Italy," "Inventione dell' amara malizia per succiare il sangue dei malaccorti
giuocatori." In a late number of the "Civiltà Cattolica," published at Rome by the Jesuits,
(the motto of which is "Beatus Populus cujus Dominus Deus est,") there is, on the other hand,
an elaborate and most Jesuitical article, in which the lottery is defended with amusing skill.
What Christendom in general has agreed to consider immoral and pernicious in its effects on
a people seems, on the contrary, to the writer of this article, to be highly moral and commendable.

The numbers which can be played are from one to ninety. Of these only five are now drawn. Originally
the numbers drawn were eight, (otto,)--and it is said that the Italian name of this game, lotto,
was derived from this circumstance. The player may stake upon one, two, three, four, or five
numbers,--but no ticket can be taken for more than five; and he may stake upon his ticket any
sum, from one baiocco up to five scudi,--but the latter sum only in case he play upon several
chances on the same ticket. If he play one number, he may either play it al posto assegnato,
according to its place in the drawing, as first, second, third, etc.,--or he may play it senza
posto, without place, in which case he wins, if the number come anywhere among the five drawn.
In the latter case, however, the prize is much less in proportion to the sum staked. Thus,
for one baiocco staked al posto assegnato, a scudo may be won; but to gain a scudo on a number
senza posto, seven baiocchi must be played. A sum staked upon two numbers is called an ambo,--on
three, a terno,--on four, a quaterno,--and on five, a cinquino; and of course the prizes increase
in rapid proportion to the numbers played,--the sum gained multiplying very largely on each
additional number. For instance, if two baiocchi be staked on an ambo, the prize is one scudo;
but if the same sum be staked on a terno, the prize is a hundred scudi. When an ambo is played
for, the same two numbers may be played as single numbers, either al posto or senza posto,
and in such case one of the numbers alone may win. So, also, a terno may be played so as to
include an ambo, and a quaterno so as to include a terno and ambo, and a cinquino so as to
include all. But whenever more than one chance is played for, the price is proportionally increased.
For a simple terno the limit of price is thirty-five pauls. The ordinary rule is to play for
every chance within the numbers taken; but the common people rarely attempt more than a terno.
If four numbers are played with all their chances, they are reckoned as four terni, and paid
for accordingly. If five numbers are taken, the price is for five terni.

Where two numbers are played, there is always an augment to the nominal prize of twenty per
cent.; where three numbers are played, the augment is of eighty per cent.; and from every prize
is deducted ten per cent., to be devoted to the hospitals and the poor. The rule creating the
augments was decreed by Innocent XIII. Such is the rage for the lottery in Rome, as well as
in all the Italian States, and so great is the number of tickets bought within the year, that
this tax on the prizes brings in a very considerable revenue for eleëmosynary purposes.

The lottery is a branch of the department of finance, and is under the direction of a Monsignore.
The tickets originally issue from one grand central office in the Palazzo Madama; but there
is scarcely a street in Rome without some subsidiary and distributing office, which is easily
recognized, not only by its great sign of "Prenditoria di Lotti" over the door, but by scores
of boards set round the windows and doorway, on which are displayed, in large figures, hundreds
of combinations of numbers for sale. The tickets sold here are merely purchased on speculation
for resale, and though it is rare that all are sold, yet, as a small advance of price is asked
on each ticket beyond what was given at the original office, there is enough profit to support
these shops. The large show of placards would to a stranger indicate a very considerable investment;
yet, in point of fact, as the tickets rarely cost more than a few baioicchi, the amount risked
is small. No ticket is available for a prize, unless it bear the stamp and signature of the
central office, as well as of the distributing shop, if bought in the latter.

Every Saturday, at noon, the lottery is drawn in Rome, in the Piazza Madama. Half an hour before
the appointed time, the Piazza begins to be thronged with ticket-holders, who eagerly watch
a large balcony of the sombre old Palazzo Madama, (built by the infamous Catharine de' Medici,)
where the drawing is to take place. This is covered by an awning and colored draperies. In
front, and fastened to the balustrade, is a glass barrel, standing on thin brass legs and turned
by a handle. Five or six persons are in the balcony, making arrangements for the drawing. These
are the officials,--one of them being the government officer, and the others persons taken
at random, to supervise the proceedings. The chief official first takes from the table beside
him a slip of paper on which a number is inscribed. He names it aloud, passes it to the next,
who verifies it and passes it on, until it has been subjected to the examination of all. The
last person then proclaims the number in a loud voice to the populace below, folds it up, and
drops it into the glass barrel. This operation is repeated until every number from one to ninety
is passed, verified by all, proclaimed, folded, and dropped into the barrel. The last number
is rather sung than called, and with more ceremony than all the rest. The crowd shout back
from below. The bell strikes noon. A blast of trumpets sounds from the balcony, and a boy dressed
in white robes advances from within, ascends the steps, and stands high up before the people,
facing the Piazza. The barrel is then whirled rapidly round and round, so as to mix in inextricable
confusion all the tickets. This over, the boy lifts high his right hand, makes the sign of
the cross on his breast, then, waving his open hand in the air, to show that nothing is concealed,
plunges it into the barrel, and draws out a number. This he hands to the official, who names
it, and passes it along the line of his companions. There is dead silence below, all listening
eagerly. Then, in a loud voice, the number is sung out by the last official, "Primo estratto,
numero 14," or whatever the number may be. Then sound the trumpets again, and there is a rustle
and buzz among the crowd. All the five numbers are drawn with like ceremony, and all is over.
Within a surprisingly short space of time, these numbers are exhibited in the long frames which
are to be seen over the door of every Prenditoria di Lotti in Rome, and there they remain until
the next drawing takes place. The boy who does the drawing belongs to a college of orphans,
an admirable institution, at which children who have lost both parents and are left helpless
are lodged, cared for, and educated, and the members of which are employed to perform this
office in rotation, receiving therefor a few scudi.

It will be seen from the manner in which the drawing of the lottery is conducted, that no precaution
is spared by the government to assure the public of the perfect good faith and fairness observed
in it. This is, in fact, absolutely necessary in order to establish that confidence without
which its very object would be frustrated. But the Italians are a very suspicious and jealous
people, and I fear that there is less faith in the uprightness of the government than in their
own watchfulness and the difficulty of deception. There can be little doubt that no deceit
is practised by the government, so far as the drawing is concerned,--for it would be nearly
impossible to employ it. Still there are not wanting stories of fortunate coincidences which
are singular and interesting; one case, which I have every reason to believe authentic, was
related to me by a most trustworthy person, as being within his own knowledge. A few years
ago, the Monsignore who was at the head of the lottery had occasion to diminish his household,
and accordingly dismissed an old servant who had been long in his palace. Often the old man
returned and asked for relief, and as often was charitably received. But his visits at last
became importunate, and the Monsignore remonstrated. The answer of the servant was, "I have
given my best years to the service of your Eminence,--I am too old to labor,--what shall I
do?" The case was a hard one. His Eminence paused and reflected;--at last he said, "Why not
buy a ticket in the lottery?" "Ah!" was the answer, "I have not even money to supply my daily
needs. What you now give me is all I have. If I risk it, I may lose it,--and that lost, what
can I do?" Still the Monsignore said, "Buy a ticket in the lottery." "Since your Eminence commands
me, I will," said the old man; "but what numbers?" "Play on number so and so for the first
drawing," was the answer, "e Dio ti benedica!" The servant did as he was ordered, and, to his
surprise and joy, the first number drawn was his. He was a rich man for life,--and his Eminence
lost a troublesome dependant.

A capital story is told by the author of the article in the "Civiltà Cattolica," which is to
the point here, and which, even were it not told on such respectable authority, bears its truth
on the face of it. As very frequently happens, a poor bottegaio, or shopkeeper, being hard-driven
by his creditors, went to his priest, an uomo apostolico, and prayed him earnestly to give
him three numbers to play in the lottery.

"But how under heaven," says the innocent priest, "has it ever got into your head that I can
know the five numbers which are to issue in the lottery?"

"Eh! Padre mio! what will it cost you?" was the answer. "Just look at me and my wretched family;
if we do not pay our rent on Saturday, out we go into the street. There is nothing left but
the lottery, and you can give us the three numbers that will set all right."

"Oh, there you are again! I am ready to do all I can to assist you, but this matter of the
lottery is impossible; and I must say, that your folly, in supposing I can give you the three
lucky numbers, does little credit to your brains."

"Oh, no! no! do not say so, Padre mio! Give me a terno. It will be like rain in May, or cheese
on my maccaroni. On my word of honor, I'll keep it secret. Via! You, so good and charitable,
cannot refuse me the three numbers. Pray, content me this once."

"Caro mio! I will give you a rule for always being content:--Avoid Sin, think often on Death,
and behave so as to deserve Paradise,--and so"----

"Basta! basta! Padre mio! That's enough. Thanks! thanks! God will reward you."

And, making a profound reverence, off the bottegaio rushes to his house. There he takes down
the "Libro del Sogni," calls into consultation his wife and children, and, after a long and
earnest discussion and study, the three numbers corresponding to the terms Sin, Death, and
Paradise are settled upon, and away goes our friend to play them in the lottery. Will you believe
it? the three numbers are drawn,--and the joy of the poor bottegaio and his family may well
be imagined. But what you will not imagine is the persecution of the poor uomo apostolico which
followed. The secret was all over town the next day, and he was beset by scores of applicants
for numbers. Vainly he protested and declared that he knew nothing, and that the man's drawing
the right numbers was all chance. Every word he spoke turned into numbers, and off ran his
hearers to play them. He was like the girl in the fairy story, who dropped pearls every time
she spoke. The worst of the imbroglio was, that in an hour the good priest had uttered words
equivalent to all the ninety numbers in the lottery, and the players were all at loggerheads
with each other. Nor did this persecution cease for weeks, nor until those who had played the
numbers corresponding to his words found themselves, as the Italians say, with only flies in
their hands.

The stupidity of many of the common people in regard to these numbers is wonderful. When the
number drawn is next to the number they have, they console themselves with thinking that they
were within one of it,--as if in such cases a miss were not as bad as a mile. But when the
number drawn is a multiple of the one they play, it is a sympathetic number, and is next door
to winning; and if the number come reversed,--as if, having played 12, it come out 21,--he
laughs with delight. "Eh, don't you see, you stupid fellow," said the speziale of a village
one day to a dunce of a contadino, of whose infallible terno not a single number had been drawn,--"Don't
you see, in substance all your three numbers have been drawn? and it's shameful in you to be
discontented. Here you have played 8--44--26, and instead of these have been drawn 7--11--62.
Well! just observe! Your 8 is just within one point of being 7; your 44 is in substance 11,
for 4 times 11 are 44 exactly; and your 26 is nothing more or less than precisely 62 reversed;--what
would you ask more?" And by his own mode of reasoning, the poor contadino sees as clearly as
possible that he has really won,--only the difficulty is that he cannot touch the prize without
correcting the little variations. Ma, pazienza! he came so near this time, that he will be
sure to win the next,--and away he goes to hunt out more sympathetic numbers, and to rejoice
with his friends on coming so near winning.

Dreams of numbers are, of course, very frequent,--and are justly much prized. Yet one must
know how to use them, and be brave and bold, or the opportunity is lost. I myself once dreamt
of having gained a terno in the lottery, but was fool enough not to play it,--and in consequence
lost a prize, the very numbers coming up in the next drawing. The next time I have such a dream,
of course I shall play; but perhaps I shall be too late, and only lose. And this recalls to
my mind a story, which may serve as a warning to the timid and an encouragement to the bold.
An Englishman, who had lived on bad terms with a very quarrelsome and annoying wife, (according
to his own account, of course,) had finally the luck, I mean the misfortune, to lose her. He
had lived long enough in Italy, however, to say "Pazienza" and buried his sorrows and his wife
in the same grave. But, after the lapse of some time, his wife appeared to him in a dream,
and confessed her sins towards him during her life, and prayed his forgiveness, and added,
that in token of reconciliation he must accept three numbers to play in the lottery, which
would certainly win a great prize. But the husband was obstinate, and absolutely refused to
follow the advice of a friend to whom he recounted the odd dream, and who urged him to play
the numbers. "Bah!" he answered to this good counsel; "I know her too well;--she never meant
well to me during her life, and I don't believe she's changed now that she's dead. She only
means to play me a trick, and make me lose. But I'm too old a bird to be taken with her chaff."
"Better play them," said his friend, and they separated. In the course of a week they met again.
"By the way," said the friend, "did you see that your three numbers came up in the lottery
this morning?" "The Devil they did! What a consummate fool I was not to play them!" "You didn't
play them?" "No!" "Well, I did, and won a good round sum with them, too." So the obstinate
husband, mad at his ill luck, cursed himself for a fool, and had his curses for his pains.
That very night, however, his wife again appeared to him, and, though she reproached him a
little for his want of faith in her, (no woman could be expected to forego such an opportunity,
even though she were dead,) yet she forgave him, and added,--"Think no more about it now, for
here are three more numbers, just as good." The husband, who had eaten the bitter food of experience,
was determined at all events not to let his fortune slip again through his fingers, and played
the highest possible terno in the lottery, and waited anxiously for the next drawing. He could
scarcely eat his breakfast for nervousness, that morning,--but at last mid-day sounded, and
the drawing took place, but no one of his numbers came up. "Too late! taken in!" he cried.
"Confound her! she knew me better than I knew myself. She gave me a prize the first time, because
she knew I wouldn't play it; and, having so whet my passions, she then gave me a blank the
second time, because she knew I would play it. I might have known better."

From the moment one lottery is drawn, the mind of the people is intent on selecting numbers
for the next. Nor is this an easy matter,--all sorts of superstitions existing as to figures
and numbers. Some are lucky, some unlucky, in themselves,--some lucky only in certain combinations,
and some sympathetic with others. The chances, therefore, must be carefully calculated, no
number or combination being ever played without profound consideration, and under advice of
skilful friends. Almost every event in life has a numerical signification; and such is the
reverence paid to dreams, that a large book exists of several hundred pages, called "Libro
dei Sogni," containing, besides various cabala and mystical figures and lists of numbers which
are "sympathetic," with directions for their use, a dictionary of thousands of objects with
the numbers supposed to be represented by each, as well as rules for interpreting into numbers
all dreams in which these objects appear,--and this book is the constant vade-mecum of a true
lottery-player. As Boniface lived, ate, and slept on his ale, so do the Romans on their numbers.
The very children "lisp in numbers, for the numbers come," and the fathers run immediately
to play them. Accidents, executions, deaths, apoplexies, marriages, assassinations, births,
anomalies of all kinds, become auguries and enigmas of numbers. A lottery-gambler will count
the stabs on a dead body, the drops of blood from a decollated head, the passengers in an overturned
coach, the wrinkles in the forehead of a new-born child, the gasps of a person struck by apoplexy,
the day of the month and the hour and the minute of his death, the scudi lost by a friend,
the forks stolen by a thief, anything and everything, to play them in the lottery. If a strange
dream is dreamed,--as of one being in a desert on a camel, which turns into a rat, and runs
down into the Maelström to hide,--the "Libro dei Sogni" is at once consulted, the numbers for
desert, rat, camel, and Maelström are found and combined, and the hopeful player waits in eager
expectation of a prize. Of course, dream after dream of particular numbers and combinations
occurs,--for the mind bent to this subject plays freaks in the night, and repeats contortedly
the thoughts of the day,--and these dreams are considered of special value. Sometimes, when
a startling incident takes place with a special numerical signification, the run upon the numbers
indicated becomes so great, that the government, which is always careful to guard against any
losses on its own part, refuses to allow more than a certain amount to be played on them, cancels
the rest, and returns the price of the tickets.

Sometimes, in passing through the streets, one may see a crowd collected about a man mounted
upon a chair or stool. Fixed to a stand at his side or on the back of his chair is a glass
bottle, in which are two or three hollow manikins of glass, so arranged as to rise and sink
by pressure of the confined air. The neck of the bottle is cased in a tin box which surmounts
it and has a movable cover. This personage is a charlatan, with an apparatus for divining lucky
numbers for the lottery. The "soft bastard Latin" runs off his tongue in an uninterrupted stream
of talk, while he offers on a waiter to the bystanders a number of little folded papers containing
a pianeta, or augury, on which are printed a fortune and a terno. "Who will buy a pianeta,"
he cries, "with the numbers sure to bring him a prize? He shall have his fortune told him who
buys. Who does not need counsel must surely be wise. Here's Master Tommetto, who never tells
lies. And here is his brother, still smaller in size. And Madama Medea Plutonia to advise.
They'll write you a fortune and bring you a prize for a single baiocco. No creature so wise
as not to need counsel. A fool I despise, who keeps his baiocco and loses his prize. Who knows
what a fortune he'll get till he tries? Time's going, Signori,--who buys? who buys?" And so
on by the yard. Meantime the crowd about him gape, stare, wonder, and finally put their hands
to their pockets, out with their baiocchi, and buy their papers. Each then makes a mark on
his paper to verify it, and returns it to the charlatan. After several are thus collected,
he opens the cover of the tin box, deposits them therein with a certain ceremony, and commences
an exhortatory discourse to the manikins in the bottle,--two of whom, Maestro Tommetto and
his brother, are made to resemble little black imps, while Madama Medea Plutonia is dressed
alla Francese. "Fa una reverenza, Maestro Tommetto!" "Make a bow, Master Tommetto!" he now
begins. The puppet bows. "Ancora!" "Again!" Again he bows. "Lesto, Signore, un piccolo giretto!"
"Quick, Sir, a little turn!" And round whirls the puppet. "Now, up, up, to make a registry
on the ticket! and do it conscientiously, Master Tommetto!" And up the imp goes, and disappears
through the neck of the bottle. Then comes a burst of admiration at his cleverness from the
charlatan. Then, turning to the brother imp, he goes through the same rôle with him. "And now,
Madama Medea, make a reverence, and follow your husband! Quick, quick, a little giretto!" And
up she goes. A moment after, down they all come again at his call; he lifts the cover of the
box; cries, "Quanto sei caro, Tommetto!" and triumphantly exhibits the papers, each with a
little freshly written inscription, and distributes them to the purchasers. Now and then he
takes from his pocket a little bottle containing a mixture of the color of wine, and a paper
filled with some sort of powder, and, exclaiming, "Ah! tu hai fame e sete. Bisogna che ti dia
da bere e mangiare," pours them into the tin cup.

It is astonishing to see how many of these little tickets a clever charlatan will sell in an
hour, and principally on account of the lottery-numbers they contain. The fortunes are all
the stereotype thing, and almost invariably warn you to be careful lest you should be "tradito,"
or promise you that you shall not be "tradito"; for the idea of betrayal is the corner-stone
of every Italian's mind.

In not only permitting, but promoting the lottery, Italy is certainly far behind England, France,
and America. This system no longer exists with us, except in the disguised shape of gift-enterprises,
art-unions, and that unpleasant institution of mendicant robbery called the raffle, and employed
specially by those "who have seen better days." But a fair parallel to this rage of the Italians
for the lottery is to be found in the love of betting, which is a national characteristic of
the English. I do not refer to the bets upon horseflesh at Ascot, Epsom, and Goodwood, by which
fortunes change owners in an hour and so many men are ruined, but rather to the general habit
of betting upon any and every subject to settle a question, no matter how trivial, for which
the Englishman is everywhere renowned on the Continent. Betting is with most other nations
a form of speech, but with Englishmen it is a serious fact, and no one will be long in their
company without finding an opinion backed up by a bet. It would not be very difficult to parallel
those cases where the Italians disregard the solemnity of death, in their eagerness for omens
of lottery-numbers, with equally reprehensible and apparently heartless cases of betting in
England. Let any one who doubts this examine the betting-books at White's and Brookes's. In
them he will find a most startling catalogue of bets,--some so bad as to justify the good parson
in Walpole's story, who declared that they were such an impious set in this respect at White's,
that, "if the last trump were to sound, they would bet puppet-show against judgment." Let one
instance suffice. A man, happening to drop down at the door of White's, was lifted up and carried
in. He was insensible, and the question was, whether he were dead or not. Bets were at once
given and taken on both sides, and, it being proposed to bleed him, those who had taken odds
that he was dead protested, on the ground that the use of the lancet would affect the fairness
of the bet.[B] In the matter of play, things have now much changed since the time when Mr.
Thynne left the club at White's in disgust, because he had won only twelve hundred guineas
in two months. There is also a description of one of Fox's mornings, about the year 1783, which
Horace Walpole has left us, and the truth of which Lord Holland admits, which it would be well
for those to read who measure out hard justice to the Italians for their love of the lottery.
Let us be fair. Italy is in these respects behind England in morals and practice by nearly
a century; but it is as idle to argue hard-heartedness in an Italian who counts the drops of
blood at a beheading as to suppose that the English have no feeling because in the bet we have
mentioned there was a protest against the use of the lancet, or to deny kindliness to a surgeon
who lectures on structure and disease while he removes a cancer.

Vehement protests against the lottery and all gaming are as often uttered in Italy as elsewhere;
and among them may be cited this eloquent passage from one of the most powerful of her modern
writers. Guerrazzi, in the thirteenth chapter of "L'Assedio di Firenze," speaking on this subject,
says, "You would in vain seek anything more fatal to men than play. It brings ignorance, poverty,
despair, and at last crime.... Gambling (the wicked gambling of the lottery) forms a precious
jewel in the crown of princes."

In a recent work, by the same author, called "L'Asino," occurs the following indignant and
satirical passage, which, for the sake of the story, if for no other reason, deserves a place
here:--

"In our search for the history of human perfection, shall I speak of Naples or Rome? Alas!
At the contemplation of such misery, in vain you constrain your lips to smile; they pout, and
the uncalled tears stream over your face. Pity, in these most unhappy countries, blinded with
weeping and hoarse with vain supplication, when she has no more voice to cry out to heaven,
flies thither, and, kneeling before the throne of God, with outstretched hand, and proffering
no word, begs that He will look at her.

"Behold, O Lord, and judge whether our sins were remitted, or whether the sins of others exceed
ours.

"Is not Tuscany the garden of Italy? So say the Tuscans; and the Florentines add, that Florence
is the Athens of Tuscany. Truly, both seem beautiful. Let us search in Tuscany. At Barberino
di Mugello, in the midst of an olive-grove is a cemetery, where the vines, which have taken
root in the outer walls and climbed over their summit, fall into the inclosed space, as if
they wished to garland Death with vine-leaves and make it smile; over the gate, strange guardians
of the tombs, two fig-trees give their shadow and fruit to recompense the piety of the passers-by,
giving a fig in exchange for a De Profundis; while the ivy, stretching its wanton arms over
the black cross, endeavors to clothe the austere sign of the Redemption with the jocund leaves
of Bacchus, and recalls to your mind the mad Phryne who vainly tempted Xenocrates. A beautiful
cemetery, by my faith! a cemetery to arouse in the body an intense desire to die, if only for
the pleasure of being buried there. Now observe. Look into my magic-lantern. What figures do
you see? A priest with a pick; after him a peasant with a spade; and behind them a woman with
a hatchet: the priest holds a corpse by the hair; the peasant, with one blow, strikes off its
head; then, all things being carefully rearranged, priest, peasant, and woman, after thrusting
the head into a sack, return as they came. Attention now, for I change the picture. What figures
are these that now appear? A kitchen; a fire that has not its superior, even in the Inferno;
and a caldron, where the hissing and boiling water sends up its bubbles. Look about and what
do you see? Enter the priest, the peasant, and the housewife, and in a moment empty a sack
into the caldron. Lo! a head rolls out, dives into the water, and floats to the surface, now
showing its nape and now its face. The Lord help us! It is an abominable spectacle; this poor
head, with its ashy, open lips, seems to say, Give me again my Christian burial! That is enough.
Only take note that in Tuscany, in the beautiful middle of the nineteenth century, a sepulchre
was violated, and a sacrilege committed, to obtain from the boiled head of a corpse good numbers
to play in the lottery! And, by way of corollary, add this to your note, that in Rome, Caput
Mundi, and in Tuscany, Garden of Italy, it is prohibited, under the severest penalties, to
play at Faro, Zecchinetto, Banco-Fallito, Rossa e Nera, and other similar games at cards, where
each party may lose the whole or half the stakes, while the government encourage the play of
the Lottery, by which, out of one hundred and twenty chances of winning, eighty are reserved
for the bank, and forty or so allowed to the player. Finally, take note that in Rome, Caput
Mundi, and in Tuscany, Garden of Italy, Faro, Zecchinetto, Rossa e Nera were prohibited, as
acknowledged pests of social existence and open death to honest customs,--as a set-off for
which deprivation, the game of the Lottery is still kept on foot."

The following extraordinary story, improbable as it seems, is founded upon fact, and was clearly
proved, on judicial investigation, a few years since. It is well known in Tuscany, and forms
the subject of a satirical narrative ("Il Sortilegio") by Giusti, a modern Tuscan poet, of
true fire and genius, who has lashed the vices of his country in verses remarkable for point,
idiom, and power. According to him, the method of divination resorted to in this case was as
follows:--The sorcerer who invented it ordered his dupes to procure, either at dawn or twilight,
ninety dry beans, called ceci, and upon each of these to write one of the ninety numbers drawn
in the lottery, with an ink made of pitch and lard, which would not be affected by water. They
were then to sharpen a knife, taking care that he who did so should touch no one during the
operation; and after a day of fasting, they were to dig up at night a body recently dead, and,
having cut off the head and removed the brain, they were to count the beans thrice, and to
shake them thrice, and then, on their knees, to put them one by one into the skull. This was
then to be placed in a caldron of water and set on the fire to boil. As soon as the water boiled
violently, the head would be rolled about so that some of the beans would be ejected, and the
first three which were thus thrown to the surface would be a sure terno for the lottery. The
wretched dupes added yet another feature of superstition to insure the success of this horrible
device. They selected the head of their curate, who had recently died,--on the ground that,
as he had studied algebra, he was a great cabalist, and any numbers from his head would be
sure to draw a prize.

Some one, I have no doubt, will here be anxious to know the numbers that bubbled up to the
surface; but I am very sorry to say that I cannot gratify their laudable curiosity, for the
interference of the police prevented the completion of the sorcery. So the curious must be
content to consult some other cabalist,--

                 "sull'arti segrete
    Di menar la Fortuna per il naso,
    Pescando il certo nel gran mar del Caso."

Despite a wide-spread feeling among the higher classes against the lottery, it still continues
to exist, for it has fastened itself into the habits and prejudices of many; and an institution
which takes such hold of the passions of the people, and has lived so long, dies hard. Nor
are there ever wanting specious excuses for the continuance of this, as of other reprobated
systems,--of which the strongest is, that its abolition would not only deprive of their present
means of subsistence numbers of persons employed in its administration, but would cut off certain
charities dependent upon it, amounting to no less than forty thousand scudi annually. Among
these may be mentioned the dowry of forty scudi which is given out of the profits received
by the government at the drawing of every lottery to some five or six of the poor girls of
Rome. The list of those who would profit by this charity is open to all, and contains thousands
of names. The first number drawn in the lottery decides the fortunate persons; and, on the
subsequent day, each receives a draft for forty scudi on the government, payable on the presentation
of the certificate of marriage. On the accession of the present Pope, an attempt was made to
abolish the system; but these considerations, among others, had weight enough to prevent any
changes.

Though the play is generally small, yet sometimes large fortunes are gained. The family of
the Marchese del Cinque, for instance, derive their title and fortune from the luck of an ancestor
who played and won the highest prize, a Cinquino. With the money thus acquired he purchased
his marquisate, and took the title del Cinque, "of the Five," in reference to the lucky five
numbers. The Villa Quaranta Cinque in Rome derives its name from a similar circumstance. A
lucky Monsignore played the single number of forty-five, al posto, and with his winnings built
the villa, to which the Romans, always addicted to nicknames, gave the name of Quaranta Cinque.
This love of nicknames, or soprannomi, as they are called, is, by the way, an odd peculiarity
of the Italians, and it often occurs that persons are known only thereby. Examples of these,
among the celebrated names of Italy, are so frequent as to form a rule in favor of the surname
rather than of the real name, and in many cases the former has utterly obliterated the latter.
Thus, Squint Eye, (Guercino,) Dirty Tom, (Masaccio,) The Little Dyer, (Tintoretto,) Great George,
(Giorgione,) The Garland-Maker, (Ghirlandaio,) Luke of the Madder, (Luca della Robbia,) The
Little Spaniard, (Spagnoletto,) and The Tailor's Son, (Del Sarto,) would scarcely be known
under their real names of Barbieri, Tommaso, Guido, Robusti, Barbarelli, Corradi, Ribera, and
Vannuchi. The list might be very much enlarged, but let it suffice to add the following well-known
names, all of which are nicknames derived from their places of birth: Perugino, Veronese, Aretino,
Pisano, Giulio Romano, Correggio, Parmegiano.

The other day a curious instance of this occurred to me in taking the testimony of a Roman
coachman. On being called upon to give the names of some of his companions, with whom he had
been in daily and intimate intercourse for more than two years, he could give only their soprannomi;
their real names he did not know, and had never heard. A little, gay, odd genius, whom I took
into my service during a villeggiatura at Siena, would not answer to his real name, Lorenzo,
but remonstrated on being so called, and said he was only Pipetta, (The Little Pipe,) a nickname
given to him when a child, from his precocity in smoking, and of which he was as tenacious
as if it were a title of honor. "You prefer, then, to be called Pipetta?" I asked. "Felicissimo!
sì," was his answer. Not a foreigner comes to Rome that his name does not "suffer a sea-change
into something rich and strange." Our break-jaw Saxon names are discarded, and a new christening
takes place. One friend I had who was called Il Malinconico,--another, La Barbarossa,--another,
Il bel Signore; but generally they are called after the number of the house or the name of
the street in which they live,--La Signora bella Bionda di Palazzo Albani,--Il Signore Quattordici
Capo le Case,--Monsieur and Madama Terzo Piano, Corso.

But to return from this digression.--At every country festival may be seen a peculiar form
of the lottery called Tombola; and in the notices of these festas, which are always placarded
over the walls of Rome for weeks before they take place, the eye will always be attracted first
by the imposing word Tombola, printed in the largest and blackest of letters. This is, in fact,
the characteristic feature of the festa, and attracts large numbers of contadini. As in the
ordinary lottery, only ninety numbers are played. Every ticket contains blank spaces for fifteen
numbers, which are inserted by the purchaser, and registered duly at the office or booth where
the ticket is bought. The price of tickets in any single Tombola is uniform; but in different
Tombolas it varies, of course, according to the amount of the prizes. These are generally five,
namely,--the Ambo, Terno, Quaterno, Cinquino, and Tombola, though sometimes a second Tombola
or Tomboletta is added. The drawing takes place in precisely the same manner as in the ordinary
lottery, but with more ceremony. A large staging, with a pavilion, is erected, where the officers
who are to superintend the drawing stand. In the centre is a glass vase, in which the numbers
are placed after having been separately verified and proclaimed, and a boy gayly dressed draws
them. All the ninety numbers are drawn; and as each issues, it is called out, and exhibited
on a large card. Near by stands a large framework, elevated so as to be visible to all, with
ninety divisions corresponding to the ninety numbers, and on this, also, every number is shown
as soon as it is drawn. The first person who has upon his ticket two drawn numbers gains an
Ambo, which is the smallest prize. Whoever first has three numbers drawn gains a Terno; and
so on with the Quaterno and Cinquino. The Tombola, which is the great prize, is won by whoever
first has his whole fifteen numbers drawn. As soon as any one finds two of the drawn numbers
on his ticket, he cries, "Ambo," at the top of his lungs. A flag is then raised on the pavilion,
the band plays, and the game is suspended, while the claimant at once makes his way to the
judges on the platform to present his ticket for examination. No sooner does the cry of "Ambo,"
"Terno," "Quaterno," take place, than there is a great rustle all around. Everybody looks out
for the fortunate person, who is immediately to be seen running through the parting crowd,
which opens before him, cheering him as he goes, if his appearance be poor and needy, and greeting
him with sarcasms, if he be apparently well to do in the world. Sometimes there are two or
three claimants for the same prize, in which case it is divided among them. The Ambo is soon
taken, and there is little room for a mistake; but when it comes to the Quaterno or Cinquino,
mistakes are very common, and the claimant is almost always saluted with chaff and jests. After
his ticket has been examined, if he have won, a placard is exhibited with Ambo, Terno, Quaterno
on it, as the case may be. But if he have committed an error, down goes the flag, and, amid
a burst of laughter, jeering, whistling, screaming, and catcalls, the disappointed claimant
sneaks back and hides himself in the excited crowd. At a really good Tombola, where the prizes
are high, there is no end of fun and gayety among the people. They stand with their tickets
in their hands, congratulating each other ironically, as they fail to find the numbers on them,
paying all sorts of absurd compliments to each other and the drawer, offering to sell out their
chances at enormous prices when they are behindhand, and letting off all sorts of squibs and
jests, not so excellent in themselves as provocative of laughter. If the wit be little, the
fun is great,--and, in the excitement of expectation, a great deal of real Italian humor is
often ventilated. Sometimes, at the country fairs, the fun is rather slow, particularly where
the prizes are small; but on exciting occasions, there is a constant small fire of jests, which
is very amusing.

These Tombole are sometimes got up with great pomp. That, for instance, which sometimes takes
place in the Villa Borghese is one of the most striking spectacles which can be seen in Rome.
At one end of the great open-air amphitheatre is erected a large pavilion, flanked on either
side with covered logge or palchi, festooned with yellow and white,--the Papal colors,--adorned
with flags, and closed round with rich old arrases all pictured over with Scripture stories.
Beneath the central pavilion is a band. Midway down the amphitheatre, on either side, are two
more logge, similarly draped, where two more bands are stationed,--and still another at the
opposite end, for the same purpose. The logge which flank the pavilion are sold by ticket,
and filled with the richer classes. Three great stagings show the numbers as they are drawn.
The pit of the amphitheatre is densely packed with a motley crowd. Under the ilexes and noble
stone-pines that show their dark-green foliage against the sky, the helmets and swords of cavalry
glitter as they move to and fro. All around on the green slopes are the people,--soldiers,
contadini, priests, mingled together,--and thousands of gay dresses and ribbons and parasols
enliven the mass. The four bands play successively as the multitude gathers. They have already
arrived in tens of thousands, but the game has not yet begun, and thousands are still flocking
to see it. All the gay equipages are on the outskirts, and through the trees and up the avenues
stream the crowds on foot. As we stand in the centre of the amphitheatre and look up, we get
a faint idea of the old Roman gatherings when Rome emptied itself to join in the games at the
Colosseum. Row upon row they stand, a mass of gay and swarming life. The sunlight flashes over
them, and blazes on the rich colors. The tall pines and dark ilexes shadow them here and there;
over them is the soft blue dome of the Italian sky. They are gathered round the villetta,--they
throng the roof and balconies,--they crowd the stone steps,--they pack the green oval of the
amphitheatre's pit. The ring of cymbals, the clarion of trumpets, and the clash of brazen music
vibrate in the air. All the world is abroad to see, from the infant in arms to the oldest inhabitant.
Monsignori in purple stockings and tricornered hats, contadini in gay reds and crimsons, cardinals
in scarlet. Princes, shopkeepers, beggars, foreigners, all mingle together; while the screams
of the vendors of cigars, pumpkin-seeds, cakes, and lemonade are everywhere heard over the
suppressed roar of the crowd. As you walk along the outskirts of the mass, you may see Monte
Gennaro's dark peak looking over the Campagna, and all the Sabine hills trembling in a purple
haze,--or, strolling down through the green avenues, you may watch the silver columns of fountains
as they crumble in foam and plash in their mossy basins,--or gather masses of the sweet Parma
violet and other beautiful wild-flowers.

The only other games among the modern Romans, which deserve particular notice from their peculiarity,
are those of Cards. In an Italian pack there are only forty cards,--the eight, nine, and ten
of the French and English cards having no existence. The suits also have different signs and
names, and, instead of hearts, spades, clubs, and diamonds, they are called coppe, spade, bastoni,
and denari,--all being of the same color, and differing entirely in form from our cards. The
coppe are cups or vases; the spade are swords; the bastoni are veritable clubs or bludgeons;
and the denari are coins. The games are still more different from ours than the cards, and
they are legion in number. There are Briscola, Tresette, Calabresella, Banco-Fallito, Rossa
e Nera, Scaraccoccia, Scopa, Spizzica, Faraone, Zecchinetto, Mercante in Fiera, La Bazzica,
Ruba-Monte, Uomo-Nero, La Paura, and I know not how many others,--but they are recorded and
explained in no book, and are only to be picked up orally. Wherever you go, on festa-day, you
will find persons playing cards. At the common osterias, before the doors or on the soiled
tables within, on the ruins of the Cæsars' palaces and in the Temple of Peace, on the stone
tables in the vigna, on the walls along the public roads, on the uncarved blocks of marble
in front of the sculptors' studios, in the antechambers or gateways of palaces,--everywhere,
cards are played. Every contadino has a pack in his pocket, with the flavor of the soil upon
it. The playing is ordinarily for very low sums, often for nothing at all. But there are some
games which are purely games of luck, and dangerous. Some of these, as Rossa e Nera, Banco-Fallito,
and Zecchinetto, though prohibited by the government, are none the less favorite games in Rome,
particularly among those who play for money. Zecchinetto may be played by any number of persons,
after the following manner:--The dealer, who plays against the whole table, deals to each player
one card. The next card is then turned up as a trump. Each player then makes his bet on the
card dealt to him, and places his money on it. The dealer then deals to the table the other
cards in order, and any of the players may bet on them as they are thrown down. If a card of
the number of that bet on issue before a card corresponding to the number of the trump, the
dealer wins the stake on that card; but whenever a card corresponding to the trump issues,
the player wins on every card on which he has bet. When the banker or dealer loses at once,
the bank "fa toppa," and the deal passes, but not otherwise. Nothing can be more simple than
this game, and it is just as dangerous as it is simple, and as exciting as it is dangerous.
A late Roman principessa is said to have been passionately fond of it, and to have lost enormously
by it. The story runs, that, while passing the evening at a friend's house, after losing ten
thousand scudi at one sitting, she staked her horses and carriage, which were at the door waiting
to take her home, and lost them also. She then wrote a note to the prince, her husband, saying
that she had lost her carriage and horses at Zecchinetto, and wished others to be sent for
her. To which he answered, that she might return on foot,--which she was obliged to do.

This will serve at least as a specimen of the games of chance played by the Romans at cards.
Of the more innocent games, Briscola, Tresette, and Scaraccoccia are the favorites among the
common people. And the first of these may not be uninteresting, as being, perhaps, the most
popular of all. It is played by either two or four persons. The Fante (or Knave) counts as
two; the Carallo (equal to our Queen) as three; the Rè (King) as four; the Three-spot as ten;
and the Ace as eleven. Three cards are dealt to each person, and after the deal the next card
is turned as trump, or Briscola. Each plays, and, after one card all round is played, its place
is supplied by a new deal of one card to each. Every card of the trump-suit takes any card
of the other suits. Each player takes as many counting-cards as he can, and, at the end of
the game, he who counts the most wins,--the account being made according to the value of the
cards, as stated above.

[To be continued.]

FOOTNOTES:

[A] See Dessault, Traité de la Passion du Jeu.

[B] Even while I am writing these notes, I find almost the same incident recorded as a "modern
instance," in a recent work by Lieutenant-Colonel Addison, entitled Traits and Stories of Anglo-Indian
Life; but, despite the authority of Colonel Addison, I cannot but suspect that he has simply
changed the venue, and that his story is but a rifacimento of the actual case alluded to above.

THE AMBER GODS.

[Concluded.]

Papa made Mr. Dudley stay and dine, and of course we were almost bored to death, when in came
Rose again, stealing behind Lu's chair and showering her in the twilight with a rain of May-flowers.

"Now you'll have to gather them again," he said.

"Oh, how exquisite! how delicious! how I thank you!" she exclaimed, without disturbing one,
however.

"You won't touch them again? Then I must," he added.

"No! no! Mr. Rose!" I cried. "I'll pick them up and take toll."

"Don't touch them!" said Lu, "they're so sweet!"

"Yes," he murmured lower, "they're like you. I always said so, you remember."

"Oh, yes! and every May-day but the last you have brought them to me."

"Have you the trailing-arbutus there?" asked Mr. Dudley.

"No," returned Rose.

"I thought I detected strawberries," submitted the other,--"a pleasant odor which recalls childhood
to memory."

For some noses all sweet scents are lumped in one big strawberry; clovers, or hyacinths, or
every laden air indifferently, they still sniff strawberries. Commonplace things!

"It's a sign of high birth to track strawberry-beds where no fruit is, Mr. Dudley," said I.

"Very true, Miss Willoughby. I was born pretty high up in the Green Mountains."

"And so keep your memory green?"

"Strawberries in June," said Rose, good-naturedly. "But fruit out of season is trouble out
of reason, the Dream-Book says. It's May now, and these are its blossoms."

"Everybody makes such a fuss about ground-laurel!" said I. "I don't see why, I'm sure. They're
never perfect. The leaf is hideous,--a stupid duenna! You get great green leaves, and the flowers
all white; you get deep, rosy flowers, and the leaves are all brown and bitten. They're neither
one thing nor another. They're just like heliotropes,--no bloom at all, only scent. I've torn
up myriads, to the ten stamens in their feathered case, to find where that smell comes from,--that
is perfectly delicious,--and I never could. They are a cheat."

"Have you finished your tirade?" asked Rose, indifferently.

"I don't believe you mean so," murmured Lu. "They have a color of their own, almost human,
infantine; and when you mass them, the tone is more soft and mellow than a flute. Everybody
loves May-flowers."

"Just about. I despise flutes. I like bassoons."

"They are prophets of apple-blossoms."

"Which brings them at once into the culinary."

"They are not very showy," said Mr. Dudley; "but when we remember the Fathers"----

"There's nothing like them," said Rose, gently, as he knelt by Lu, slowly putting them into
order; "nothing but pure, clear things; they're the fruit of snowflakes, the firstlings of
the year. When one thinks how sweetly they come from their warm coverts and look into this
cold, breezy sky so unshrinkingly, and from what a soil they gather such a wealth of simple
beauty, one feels ashamed."

"Climax worthy of the useless things!" said I.

"The moment in which first we are thoroughly ashamed, Miss Willoughby, is the sovereign one
of our life. Useless things? They are worth king and bishop. Every year, weariness and depression
melt away when atop of the seasons' crucible boil these little bubbles. Isn't everybody better
for lavishing love? And no one merely likes these; whoever cares at all loves entirely. We
always take and give resemblances or sympathies from any close connection, and so these are
in their way a type of their lovers. What virtue is in them to distil the shadow of the great
pines, that wave layer after layer with a grave rhythm over them, into this delicate tint,
I wonder. They have so decided an individuality,--different there from hot-house belles;--fashion
strips us of our characteristics"----

"You needn't turn to me for illustration of exotics," said I.

He threw me a cluster, half-hidden in its green towers, and went on, laying one by one and
bringing out little effects.

"The sweetest modesty clings to them, which Alphonse Karr denies to the violet, so that they
are almost out of place in a drawing-room; one ought to give them there the shelter of their
large, kind leaves."

"Hemlock's the only wear," said Louise.

"Or last year's scarlet blackberry triads. Vines together," he suggested.

"But sometimes they forget their nun-like habit," she added, "put on a frolicsome mood, and
clamber out and flush all the deep ruts of the carriage-road in Follymill woods, you remember."

"Penance next year," said I.

"No, no; you are not to bring your old world into my new," objected Rose. "Perhaps they ran
out so to greet the winter-worn mariners of Plymouth, and have been pursued by the love of
their descendants ever since, they getting charier. Just remember how they grow. Why, you'd
never suspect a flower there, till, happening to turn up a leaf, you're in the midst of harvest.
You may tramp acres in vain, and within a stone's throw they've been awaiting you. There's
something very charming, too, about them in this,--that when the buds are set, and at last
a single blossom starts the trail, you plucking at one end of the vine, your heart's delight
may touch the other a hundred miles away. Spring's telegraph. So they bind our coast with this
network of flower and root."

"By no means," I asserted. "They grow in spots."

"Pshaw! I won't believe it. They're everywhere just the same, only underground preparing their
little witnesses, whom they send out where most needed. You don't suppose they find much joy
in the fellowship of brown pine pins and sad, gray mosses, do you? Some folks say they don't
grow away from the shore; but I've found them, I'm sorry to say, up in New Hampshire."

"Why sorry?" asked Lu.

"Oh, I like it best that they need our sea. They're eminently choice for this hour, too, when
you scarcely gather their tint,--that tint, as if moonlight should wish to become a flower,--but
their fragrance is an atmosphere all about you. How genuinely spicy it is! It's the very quintessence
of those regions all whose sweetness exudes in sun-saturated balsams,--the very breath of pine
woods and salt sea winds. How could it live away from the sea?"

"Why, Sir," said Mr. Dudley, "you speak as if it were a creature!"

"A hard, woody stem, a green, robust leaf, a delicate, odorous flower, Mr. Dudley, what is
it all but an expression of New England character?"

"Doxology!" said I.

"Now, Miss Louise, as you have made me atone for my freedom, the task being done, let me present
them in form."

"I'm sure she needn't praise them," said I.

She didn't.

"I declared people make a great fuss over them," I continued. "And you prove it. You put me
in mind of a sound, to be heard where one gets them,--a strange sound, like low, distant thunder,
and it's nothing but the drum of a little partridge! a great song out of nothing.--Bless me!
what's that?"

"Oh, the fireworks!" said Lu. And we all thronged to the windows.

"It's very good of your uncle to have them," said Rose. "What a crowd from the town! Think
of the pyrotechnics among comets and aërolites some fellows may have! It's quite right, too,
to make our festivals with light; it's the highest and last of all things; we never can carry
our imaginations beyond light"----

"Our imaginations ought to carry us," said Lu.

"Come," I said, "you can play what pranks you please with the little May; but light is my province,
my absorption; let it alone."

It grew quite dark, interrupted now and then by the glare of rockets; but at last a stream
of central fire went out in a slow rain of countless violets, reflected with pale blue flashes
in the river below, and then the gloom was unbroken. I saw them, in that long, dim gleam, standing
together at a window. Louise, her figure almost swaying as if to some inaudible music, but
her face turned to him with such a steady quiet. Ah, me! what a tremulous joy, what passion,
and what search, lit those eyes! But you know that passion means suffering, and, tracing it
in the original through its roots, you come to pathos, and still farther, to lamentation, I've
heard. But he was not looking down at her, only out and away, paler than ever in the blue light,
sad and resolved. I ordered candles.

"Sing to me, Louise," said Rose, at length. "It is two years since I heard you."

"Sing 'What's a' the steer, kimmer,'" I said. But instead, she gave the little ballad, 'And
bring my love again, for he lies among the moors.'

Rose went and leaned over the pianoforte while she sang, bending and commanding her eyes. He
seemed to wish to put himself where he was before he ever left her, to awaken everything lovely
in her, to bring her before him as utterly developed as she might be,--not only to afford her,
but to force upon her every chance to master him. He seemed to wish to love, I thought.

"Thank you," he said, as she ceased. "Did you choose it purposely, Louise?"

Lu sang very nicely, and, though I dare say she would rather not then, when Mr. Dudley asked
for the "Vale of Avoca" and the "Margin of Zürich's Fair Waters," she gave them just as kindly.
Altogether, quite a damp programme. Then papa came in, bright and blithe, whirled me round
in a pas de deux, and we all very gay and hilarious slipped into the second of May.

Dear me! how time goes! I must hurry.--After that, I didn't see so much of Rose; but he met
Lu everywhere, came in when I was out, and, if I returned, he went, perfectly regardless of
my existence, it seemed. They rode, too, all round the country; and she sat to him, though
he never filled out the sketch. For weeks he was devoted; but I fancied, when I saw them, that
there lingered in his manner the same thing as on the first evening while she sang to him.
Lu was so gay and sweet and happy that I hardly knew her; she was always very gentle, but such
a decided body,--that's the Willoughby, her mother. Yet during these weeks Rose had not spoken,
not formally; delicate and friendly kindness was all Lu could have found, had she sought. One
night, I remember, he came in and wanted us to go out and row with him on the river. Lu wouldn't
go without me.

"Will you come?" said he, coolly, as if I were merely necessary as a thwart or thole-pin might
have been, turning and letting his eyes fall on me an instant, then snatching them off with
a sparkle and flush, and such a lordly carelessness of manner otherwise.

"Certainly not," I replied.

So they remained, and Lu began to open a bundle of Border Ballads, which he had brought her.
The very first one was "Whistle an' I'll come to you, my lad." I laughed. She glanced up quickly,
then held it in her hands a moment, repeated the name, and asked if he liked it.

"Oh, yes," he said. "There couldn't be a Scotch song without that rhythm better than melody,
which, after all, is Beethoven's secret."

"Perhaps," said Louise. "But I shall not sing this."

"Oh, do!" he said, turning with surprise. "You don't know what an aërial, whistling little
thing it is!"

"No."

"Why, Louise! There is nobody could sing it but you."

"Of good discourse, an excellent musician, and her hair shall be of what color it please God,"
quoted I, and in came Mr. Dudley, as he usually did when not wanted; though I've no reason
to find fault with him, notwithstanding his blank treatment of me. He never took any notice,
because he was in love with Lu. Rose never took any notice of me, either. But with a difference!

Lu was singularly condescending to Mr. Dudley that evening; and Rose, sitting aside, looked
so very much disturbed--whether pleasantly or otherwise didn't occur to me--that I couldn't
help enjoying his discomfiture, and watching him through it.

Now, though I told you I wasn't nervous, I never should know I had this luxurious calm, if
there were nothing to measure it by; and once in a great while a perfect whirlpool seizes me,--my
blood is all in turmoil,--I bubble with silent laughter, or cry with all my heart. I had been
in such a strange state a good while, and now, as I surveyed Rose, it gradually grew fiercer,
till I actually sprang to my feet, and exclaimed, "There! it is insupportable! I've been in
the magnetic storm long enough! it is time something took it from me!" and ran out-doors.

Rose sauntered after, by-and-by, as if unwillingly drawn by a loadstone, and found the heavens
wrapped in a rosy flame of Northern Lights. He looked as though he belonged to them, so pale
and elf-like was his face then, like one bewitched.

"Papa's fireworks fade before mine," I said. "Now we can live in the woods, as Lu has been
wishing; for a dry southerly wind follows this, with a blue smoke filming all the distant fields.
Won't it be delicious?"

"Or rain," he replied; "I think it will rain to-morrow,--warm, full rains"; and he seemed as
if such a chance would dissolve him entirely.

As for me, those shifting, silent sheets of splendor abstracted all that was alien, and left
me in my normal state.

"There they come!" I said, as Lu and Mr. Dudley, and some others who had entered in my absence,--gnats
dancing in the beam,--stepped down toward us. "How charming for us all to sit out here!"

"How annoying, you mean," he replied, simply for contradiction.

"It hasn't been warm enough before," I added.

"And Louise may take cold now," he said, as if wishing to exhibit his care for her. "Whom is
she speaking with? Blarsaye? And who comes after?"

"Parti. A delightful person,--been abroad, too. You and he can have a crack about Louvres and
Vaticans now, and leave Lu and Mr. Dudley to me."

Rose suddenly inspected me and then Parti, as if he preferred the crack to be with cudgels;
but in a second the little blaze vanished, and he only stripped a weigelia branch of every blossom.

I wonder what made Lu behave so that night; she scarcely spoke to Rose, appeared entirely unconcerned
while he hovered round her like an officious sprite, was all grace to the others and sweetness
to Mr. Dudley. And Rose, oblivious of snubs, paraded his devotion, seemed determined to show
his love for Lu,--as if any one cared a straw,--and took the pains to be positively rude to
me. He was possessed of an odd restlessness; a little defiance bristled his movements, an air
of contrariness; and whenever he became quiet, he seemed again like one enchanted and folded
up in a dream, to break whose spell he was about to abandon efforts. He told me life had destroyed
my enchantment; I wonder what will destroy his. Lu refused to sit in the garden-chair he offered,--just
suffered the wreath of pink bells he gave her to hang in her hand, and by-and-by fall,--and
when the north grew ruddier and swept the zenith with lances of light, and when it faded, and
a dim cloud hazed all the stars, preserved the same equanimity, kept on the evil tenor of her
way, and bade every one an impartial farewell at separating. She is preciously well-bred.

We hadn't remained in the garden all that time, though,--but, strolling through the gate and
over the field, had reached a small grove that fringes the gully worn by Wild Fall and crossed
by the railway. As we emerged from that, talking gayly, and our voices almost drowned by the
dash of the little waterfall and the echo from the opposite rock, I sprang across the curving
track, thinking them behind, and at the same instant a thunderous roar burst all about, a torrent
of hot air whizzed and eddied over me, I fell dizzied and stunned, and the night express-train
shot by like a burning arrow. Of course I was dreadfully hurt by my fall and fright,--I feel
the shock now,--but they all stood on the little mound, from which I had sprung, like so many
petrifactions: Rose, just as he had caught Louise back on firmer ground, when she was about
to follow me, his arm wound swiftly round her waist, yet his head thrust forward eagerly, his
pale face and glowing eyes bent, not on her, but me. Still he never stirred, and poor Mr. Dudley
first came to my assistance. We all drew breath at our escape, and, a little slowly, on my
account, turned homeward.

"You are not bruised, Miss Willoughby?" asked Blarsaye, wakened.

"Dear Yone!" Lu said, leaving Mr. Dudley's arm, "you're so very pale! It's not pain, is it?"

"I am not conscious of any. Why should I be injured, any more than you?"

"Do you know," said Rose, sotto voce, turning and bending merely his head to me, "I thought
I heard you scream, and that you were dead."

"And what then?"

"Nothing, but that you were lying dead and torn, and I should see you," he said,--and said
as if he liked to say it, experiencing a kind of savage delight at his ability to say it.

"A pity to have disappointed you!" I answered.

"I saw it coming before you leaped," he added, as a malignant finality, and drawing nearer.
"You were both on the brink. I called, but probably neither you nor Lu heard me. So I snatched
her back."

Now I had been next him then.

"Jove's balance," I said, taking Parti's arm.

He turned instantly to Lu, and kept by her during the remainder of the walk, Mr. Dudley being
at the other side. I was puzzled a little by Lu, as I have been a good many times since; I
thought she liked Rose so much. Papa met us in the field, and there the affair must be detailed
to him, and then he would have us celebrate our safety in Champagne.

"Good-bye, Louise," said Rose, beside her at the gate, and offering his hand, somewhat later.
"I'm going away to-morrow, if it's fine."

"Going?" with involuntary surprise.

"To camp out in Maine."

"Oh! I hope you will enjoy it."

"Would you stay long, Louise?"

"If the sketching-grounds are good."

"When I come back, you'll sing my songs? Shake hands."

She just laid a cold touch on his.

"Louise, are you offended with me?"

She looked up with so much simplicity. "Offended, Rose, with you?"

"Not offended, but frozen," I could have said. Lu is like that little sensitive-plant, shrinking
into herself with stiff unconsciousness at a certain touch. But I don't think he noticed the
sad tone in her voice, as she said good-night; I didn't, till, the others being gone, I saw
her turn after his disappearing figure, with a look that would have been despairing, but for
its supplication.

The only thing Lu ever said to me about this was,--

"Don't you think Rose a little altered, Yone, since he came home?"

"Altered?"

"I have noticed it ever since you showed him your beads, that day."

"Oh! it's the amber," I said. "They are amulets, and have bound him in a thrall. You must wear
them, and dissolve the charm. He's in a dream."

"What is it to be in a dream?" she asked.

"To lose thought of past or future."

She repeated my words,--"Yes, he's in a dream," she said, musingly.

II.

Rose didn't come near us for a fortnight; but he had not camped at all, as he said. It was
the first stone thrown into Lu's life, and I never saw any one keep the ripples under so; but
her suspicions were aroused. Finally he came in again, all as before, and I thought things
might have been different, if in that fortnight Mr. Dudley had not been so assiduous; and now,
to the latter's happiness, there were several ragged children and infirm old women in whom,
Lu having taken them in charge, he chose to be especially interested. Lu always was housekeeper,
both because it had fallen to her while mamma and I were away, and because she had an administrative
faculty equal to General Jackson's; and Rose, who had frequently gone about with her, inspecting
jellies and cordials and adding up her accounts, now unexpectedly found Mr. Dudley so near
his former place that he disdained to resume it himself;--not entirely, because the man of
course couldn't be as familiar as an old playmate; but just enough to put Rose aside. He never
would compete with any one; and Lu did not know how to repulse the other.

If the amulets had ravished Rose from himself, they did it at a distance, for I had not worn
them since that day.--You needn't look. Thales imagined amber had a spirit; and Pliny says
it is a counter-charm for sorceries. There are a great many mysterious things in the world.
Aren't there any hidden relations between us and certain substances? Will you tell me something
impossible?--But he came and went about Louise, and she sung his songs, and all was going finely
again, when we gave our midsummer party.

Everybody was there, of course, and we had enrapturing music. Louise wore--no matter--something
of twilight purple, and begged for the amber, since it was too much for my toilette,--a double
India muslin, whose snowy sheen scintillated with festoons of gorgeous green beetles' wings
flaming like fiery emeralds.--A family dress, my dear, and worn by my aunt before me,--only
that individual must have been frightened out of her wits by it. A cruel, savage dress, very
like, but ineffably gorgeous.--So I wore her aquamarina, though the other would have been better;
and when I sailed in, with all the airy folds in a hoar-frost mistiness fluttering round me
and the glitter of Lu's jewels,--

"Why!" said Rose, "you look like the moon in a halo."

But Lu disliked a hostess out-dressing her guests.

It was dull enough till quite late, and then I stepped out with Mr. Parti, and walked up and
down a garden-path. Others were outside as well, and the last time I passed a little arbor
I caught a yellow gleam of amber. Lu, of course. Who was with her? A gentleman, bending low
to catch her words, holding her hand in an irresistible pressure. Not Rose, for he was flitting
in beyond. Mr. Dudley. And I saw then that Lu's kindness was too great to allow her to repel
him angrily; her gentle conscience let her wound no one. Had Rose seen the pantomime? Without
doubt. He had been seeking her, and he found her, he thought, in Mr. Dudley's arms. After a
while we went in, and, finding all smooth enough, I slipped through the balcony-window and
hung over the balustrade, glad to be alone a moment. The wind, blowing in, carried the gay
sounds away from me, even the music came richly muffled through the heavy curtains, and I wished
to breathe balm and calm. The moon, round and full, was just rising, making the gloom below
more sweet. A full moon is poison to some; they shut it out at every crevice, and do not suffer
a ray to cross them; it has a chemical or magnetic effect; it sickens them. But I am never
more free and royal than when the subtile celerity of its magic combinations, whatever they
are, is at work. Never had I known the mere joy of being so intimately as to-night. The river
slept soft and mystic below the woods, the sky was full of light, the air ripe with summer.
Out of the yellow honeysuckles that climbed around, clouds of delicious fragrance stole and
swathed me; long wafts of faint harmony gently thrilled me. Dewy and dark and uncertain was
all beyond. I, possessed with a joyousness so deep through its contented languor as to counterfeit
serenity, forgot all my wealth of nature, my pomp of beauty, abandoned myself to the hour.

A strain of melancholy dance-music pierced the air and fell. I half turned my head, and my
eyes met Rose. He had been there before me, perhaps. His face, white and shining in the light,
shining with a strange sweet smile of relief, of satisfaction, of delight, his lips quivering
with unspoken words, his eyes dusky with depth after depth of passion. How long did my eyes
swim on his? I cannot tell. He never stirred; still leaned there against the pillar, still
looked down on me like a marble god. The sudden tears dazzled my gaze, fell down my hot cheek,
and still I knelt fascinated by that smile. In that moment I felt that he was more beautiful
than the night, than the music, than I. Then I knew that all this time, all summer, all past
summers, all my life long, I had loved him.

Some one was waiting to make his adieux; I heard my father seeking me; I parted the curtains,
and went in. One after one those tedious people left, the lights grew dim, and still he stayed
without. I ran to the window, and, lifting the curtain, bent forward, crying,--

"Mr. Rose! do you spend the night on the balcony?"

Then he moved, stepped down, murmured something to my father, bowed loftily to Louise, passed
me without a sign, and went out. In a moment, Lu's voice, a quick, sharp exclamation, touched
him; he turned, came back. She, wondering at him, had stood toying with the amber, and at last
crushing the miracle of the whole, a bell-wort wrought most delicately with all the dusty pollen
grained upon its anthers, crushing it between her fingers, breaking the thread, and scattering
the beads upon the carpet. He stooped with her to gather them again, he took from her hand
and restored to her afterward the shattered fragments of the bell-wort, he helped her disentangle
the aromatic string from her falling braids,--for I kept apart,--he breathed the penetrating
incense of each separate amulet, and I saw that from that hour, when every atom of his sensation
was tense and vibrating, she would be associated with the loathed amber in his undefined consciousness,
would be surrounded with an atmosphere of its perfume, that Lu was truly sealed from him in
it, sealed into herself. Then again, saying no word, he went out.

Louise stood like one lost,--took aimlessly a few steps,--retraced them,--approached a table,--touched
something,--left it.

"I am so sorry about your beads!" she said, apologetically, when she looked up and saw me astonished,
putting the broken pieces into my hand.

"Goodness! Is that what you are fluttering about so for?"

"They can't be mended," she continued, "but I will thread them again."

"I don't care about them, I'm sick of amber," I answered, consolingly. "You may have them,
if you will."

"No. I must pay too great a price for them," she replied.

"Nonsense! when they break again, I'll pay you back," I said, without in the least knowing
what she meant. "I didn't know you were too proud for a 'thank you!'"

She came up and put both her arms round my neck, laid her cheek beside mine a minute, kissed
me, and went up-stairs. Lu always rather worshipped me.

Dressing my hair that night, Carmine, my maid, begged for the remnants of the bell-wort to
"make a scent-bag with, Miss."

Next day, no Rose; it rained. But at night he came and took possession of the room, with a
strange, airy gayety never seen in him before. It was so chilly, that I had heaped the wood-boughs,
used in the yesterday's decorations, on the hearth, and lighted a fragrant crackling flame
that danced up wildly at my touch,--for I have the faculty of fire. I sat at one side, Lu at
the other, papa was holding a skein of silk for her to wind, the amber beads were twinkling
in the firelight,--and when she slipped them slowly on the thread, bead after bead, warmed
through and through by the real blaze, they crowded the room afresh with their pungent spiciness.
Papa had called Rose to take his place at the other end of the silk, and had gone out; and
when Lu finished, she fastened the ends, cut the thread, Rose likening her to Atropos, and
put them back into her basket. Still playing with the scissors, following down the lines of
her hand, a little snap was heard.

"Oh!" said Louise, "I have broken my ring!"

"Can't it be repaired?" I asked.

"No," she returned briefly, but pleasantly, and threw the pieces into the fire.

"The hand must not be ringless," said Rose; and slipping off the ring of hers that he wore,
he dropped it upon the amber, then got up and threw an armful of fresh boughs upon the blaze.

So that was all done. Then Rose was gayer than before. He is one of those people to whom you
must allow moods,--when their sun shines, dance, and when their vapors rise, sit in the shadow.
Every variation of the atmosphere affects him, though by no means uniformly; and so sensitive
is he, that, when connected with you by any intimate rapport, even if but momentary, he almost
divines your thoughts. He is full of perpetual surprises. I am sure he was a nightingale before
he was Rose. An iridescence like sea-foam sparkled in him that evening, he laughed as lightly
as the little tinkling mass-bells at every moment, and seemed to diffuse a rosy glow wherever
he went in the room. Yet gayety was not his peculiar specialty, and at length he sat before
the fire, and, taking Lu's scissors, commenced cutting bits of paper in profiles. Somehow they
all looked strangely like and unlike Mr. Dudley. I pointed one out to Lu, and, if he had needed
confirmation, her changing color gave it. He only glanced at her askance, and then broke into
the merriest description of his life in Rome, of which he declared he had not spoken to us
yet, talking fast and laughing as gleefully as a child, and illustrating people and localities
with scissors and paper as he went on, a couple of careless snips putting a whole scene before us.

The floor was well-strewn with such chips,--fountains, statues, baths, and all the persons
of his little drama,--when papa came in. He held an open letter, and, sitting down, read it
over again. Rose fell into silence, clipping the scissors daintily in and out the white sheet
through twinkling intricacies. As the design dropped out, I caught it,--a long wreath of honeysuckle-blossoms.
Lu was humming a little tune. Rose joined, and hummed the last bars, then bade us good-night.

"Yone," said papa, "your Aunt Willoughby is very ill,--will not recover. She is my elder brother's
widow; you are her heir. You must go and stay with her."

Now it was very likely that just at this time I was going away to nurse Aunt Willoughby! Moreover,
illness is my very antipodes,--its nearness is invasion,--we are utterly antipathetic,--it
disgusts and repels me. What sympathy can there be between my florid health, my rank, redundant
life, and any wasting disease of death? What more hostile than focal concentration and obscure
decomposition? You see, we cannot breathe the same atmosphere. I banish the thought of such
a thing from my feeling, from my memory. So I said,--

"It's impossible. I'm not going an inch to Aunt Willoughby's. Why, papa, it's more than a hundred
miles, and in this weather!"

"Oh, the wind has changed."

"Then it will be too warm for such a journey."

"A new idea, Yone! Too warm for the mountains?"

"Yes, papa. I'm not going a step."

"Why, Yone, you astonish me! Your sick aunt!"

"That's the very thing. If she were well, I might,--perhaps. Sick! What can I do for her? I
never go into a sick-room. I hate it. I don't know how to do a thing there. Don't say another
word, papa. I can't go."

"It is out of the question to let it pass so, my dear. Here you are nursing all the invalids
in town, yet"----

"Indeed, I'm not, papa. I don't know and don't care whether they're dead or alive."

"Well, then, it's Lu."

"Oh, yes, she's hospital-agent for half the country."

"Then it is time that you also got a little experience."

"Don't, papa! I don't want it. I never saw anybody die, and I never mean to."

"Can't I do as well, uncle?" asked Lu.

"You, darling? Yes; but it isn't your duty."

"I thought, perhaps," she said, "you would rather Yone went."

"So I would."

"Dear papa, don't vex me! Ask anything else!"

"It is so unpleasant to Yone," Lu murmured, "that maybe I had better go. And if you've no objection,
Sir, I'll take the early train to-morrow."

Wasn't she an angel?

       *       *       *       *       *

Lu was away a month. Rose came in, expressing his surprise. I said, "Othello's occupation's gone?"

"And left him room for pleasure now," he retorted.

"Which means seclusion from the world, in the society of lakes and chromes."

"Miss Willoughby," said he, turning and looking directly past me, "may I paint you?"

"Me? Oh, you can't."

"No; but may I try?"

"I cannot go to you."

"I will come to you."

"Do you suppose it will be like?"

"Not at all, of course. It is to be, then?"

"Oh, I've no more right than any other piece of Nature to refuse an artist a study in color."

He faced about, half pouting, as if he would go out, then returned and fixed the time.

So he painted. He generally put me into a broad beam that slanted from the top of the veiled
window, and day after day he worked. Ah, what glorious days they were! how gay! how full of
life! I almost feared to let him image me on canvas, do you know? I had a fancy it would lay
my soul so bare to his inspection. What secrets might be searched, what depths fathomed, at
such times, if men knew! I feared lest he should see me as I am, in those great masses of warm
light lying before him, as I feared he saw when he said amber harmonized with me,--all being
things not polarized, not organized, without centre, so to speak. But it escaped him, and he
wrought on. Did he succeed? Bless you! he might as well have painted the sun; and who could
do that? No; but shades and combinations that he had hardly touched or known, before, he had
to lavish now; he learned more than some years might have taught him; he, who worshipped beauty,
saw how thoroughly I possessed it; he has told me that through me he learned the sacredness
of color. "Since he loves beauty so, why does he not love me?" I asked myself; and perhaps
the feverish hope and suspense only lit up that beauty and fed it with fresh fires. Ah, the
July days! Did you ever wander over barren, parched stubble-fields, and suddenly front a knot
of red Turk's-cap lilies, flaring as if they had drawn all the heat and brilliance from the
land into their tissues? Such were they. And if I were to grow old and gray, they would light
down all my life, and I could be willing to lead a dull, grave age, looking back and remembering
them, warming myself forever in their constant youth. If I had nothing to hope, they would
become my whole existence. Think, then, what it will be to have all days like those!

He never satisfied himself, as he might have done, had he known me better,--and he never shall
know me!--and used to look at me for the secret of his failure, till I laughed; then the look
grew wistful, grew enamored. By-and-by we left the pictures. We went into the woods, warm,
dry woods; we stayed there from morning till night. In the burning noons, we hung suspended
between two heavens, in our boat on glassy forest-pools, where now and then a shoal of white
lilies rose and crowded out the under-sky. Sunsets burst like bubbles over us. When the hidden
thrushes were breaking one's heart with music, and the sweet fern sent up a tropical fragrance
beneath our crushing steps, we came home to rooms full of guests and my father's genial warmth.
What a month it was!

One day papa went up into New Hampshire; Aunt Willoughby was dead; and one day Lu came home.

She was very pale and thin. Her eyes were hollow and purple.

"There is some mistake, Lu," I said. "It is you who are dead, instead of Aunt Willoughby."

"Do I look so wretchedly?" she asked, glancing at the mirror.

"Dreadfully! Is it all watching and grief?"

"Watching and grief," said Lu.

How melancholy her smile was! She would have crazed me in a little while, if I had minded her.

"Did you care so much for fretful, crabbed Aunt Willoughby?"

"She was very kind to me," Lu replied.

There was an odd air with her that day. She didn't go at once and get off her travelling-dress,
but trifled about in a kind of expectancy, a little fever going and coming in her cheeks, and
turning at any noise.

Will you believe it?--though I know Lu had refused him,--who met her at the half-way junction,
saw about her luggage, and drove home with her, but Mr. Dudley, and was with us, a half-hour
afterward, when Rose came in? Lu didn't turn at his step, but the little fever in her face
prevented his seeing her as I had done. He shook hands with her and asked after her health,
and shook hands with Mr. Dudley, (who hadn't been near us during her absence,) and seemed to
wish she should feel that he recognized without pain a connection between herself and that
personage. But when he came back to me, I was perplexed again at that bewitched look in his
face,--as if Lu's presence made him feel that he was in a dream, I the enchantress of that
dream. It did not last long, though. And soon she saw Mr. Dudley out, and went up-stairs.

When Lu came down to tea, she had my beads in her hand again.

"I went into your room and got them, dear Yone," she said, "because I have found something
to replace the broken bell-wort"; and she showed us a little amber bee, black and golden. "Not
so lovely as the bell-wort," she resumed, "and I must pierce it for the thread; but it will
fill the number. Was I not fortunate to find it?"

But when at a flame she heated a long, slender needle to pierce it, the little winged wonder
shivered between her fingers, and under the hot steel filled the room with the honeyed smell
of its dusted substance.

"Never mind," said I again. "It's a shame, though,--it was so much prettier than the bell-wort!
We might have known it was too brittle. It's just as well, Lu."

The room smelt like a chancel at vespers. Rose sauntered to the window, and so down the garden,
and then home.

"Yes. It cannot be helped," she said, with a smile. "But I really counted upon seeing it on
the string. I'm not lucky at amber. You know little Asian said it would bring bane to the bearer."

"Dear! dear! I had quite forgotten!" I exclaimed. "Oh, Lu, keep it, or give it away, or something!
I don't want it any longer."

"You're very vehement," she said, laughing now. "I am not afraid of your gods. Shall I wear them?"

So the rest of the summer Lu twined them round her throat,--amulets of sorcery, orbs of separation;
but one night she brought them back to me. That was last night. There they lie.

The next day, in the high golden noon, Rose came. I was on the lounge in the alcove parlor,
my hair half streaming out of Lu's net; but he didn't mind. The light was toned and mellow,
the air soft and cool. He came and sat on the opposite side, so that he faced the wall table
with its dish of white, stiflingly sweet lilies, while I looked down the drawing-room. He had
brought a book, and by-and-by opened at the part commencing, "Do not die, Phene." He read it
through,--all that perfect, perfect scene. Now, with a proud grace, he raised his head,--not
to look at me, but across me, at the lilies, to satiate himself with their odorous snowiness.
When he again pronounced words, his voice was husky and vibrant; but what music dwelt in it
and seemed to prolong rather than break the silver silence, as he echoed,

    "Some unsuspected isle in the far seas"!

How many read to descend to a prosaic life! how few to meet one as rich and full beside them!
The tone grew ever lower; he looked up slowly, fastening his glance on mine.

    "And you are ever by me while I gaze,--
    Are in my arms, as now,--as now,--as now!"

he said. He swayed forward with those wild questioning eyes,--his breath blew over my cheek;
I was drawn,--I bent; the full passion of his soul broke to being, wrapped me with a blinding
light, a glowing kiss on lingering lips, a clasp strong and tender as heaven. All my hair fell
down like a shining cloud and veiled us, the great rolling folds in wave after wave of crisp
splendor. I drew back from that long, silent kiss, I gathered up each gold thread of the straying
tresses, blushing, defiant. He also, he drew back. But I knew all then. I had no need to wait
longer; I had achieved. Rose loved me. Rose had loved me from that first day.--You scarcely
hear what I say, I talk so low and fast? Well, no matter, dear, you wouldn't care.--For a moment
that gaze continued, then the lids fell, the face grew utterly white. He rose, flung the book,
crushed and torn, upon the floor, went out, speaking no word to me, nor greeting Louise in
the next room. Could he have seen her? No. I, only, had that. For, as I drew from his arm,
a meteoric crimson, shooting across the pale face bent over work there, flashed upon me, and
then a few great tears, like sudden thunder-drops, falling slowly and wetting the heavy fingers.
The long mirror opposite her reflected the interior of the alcove parlor. No,--he could not
have seen, he must have felt her.

I wonder whether I should have cared, if I had never met him any more,--happy in this new consciousness.
But in the afternoon he returned, bright and eager.

"Are you so very busy, dear Yone," he said, without noticing Lu, "that you cannot drive with
me to-day?"

Busy! In five minutes I whirled down the avenue beside him. I had not been Yone to him before.
How quiet we were! he driving on, bent forward, seeing out and away; I leaning back, my eyes
closed, and, whenever a remembrance of that instant at noon thrilled me, a stinging blush staining
my cheek. I, who had believed myself incapable of love, till that night on the balcony, felt
its floods welling from my spirit,--who had believed myself so completely cold, was warm to
my heart's core. Again that breath fanned me, those lips touched mine, lightly, quickly.

"Yone, my Yone!" he said. "Is it true? No dream within dream? Do you love me?"

Wistful, longing, tender eyes.

"Do I love you? I would die for you!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ah, me! If the July days were such, how perfect were the August and September nights! their
young moon's lingering twilight, their full broad bays of silver, their interlunar season!
The winds were warm about us, the whole earth seemed the wealthier for our love. We almost
lived upon the river, he and I alone,--floating seaward, swimming slowly up with late tides,
reaching home drenched with dew, parting in passionate silence. Once he said to me,--

"Is it because it is so much larger, more strange and beautiful, than any other love could
be, that I feel guilty, Yone,--feel as if I sinned in loving you so, my great white flower?"

I ought to tell you how splendid papa was, never seemed to consider that Rose had only his
art, said I had enough from Aunt Willoughby for both, we should live up there among the mountains,
and set off at once to make arrangements. Lu has a wonderful tact, too,--seeing at once where
her path lay. She is always so well oriented! How full of peace and bliss these two months
have been! Last night Lu came in here. She brought back my amber gods, saying she had not intended
to keep them, and yet loitering.

"Yone," she said at last, "I want you to tell me if you love him."

Now, as if that were any affair of hers! I looked what I thought.

"Don't be angry," she pleaded. "You and I have been sisters, have we not? and always shall
be. I love you very much, dear,--more than you may believe; I only want to know if you will
make him happy."

"That's according," said I, with a yawn.

She still stood before me. Her eyes said, "I have a right,--I have a right to know."

"You want me to say how much I love Vaughan Rose?" I asked, finally. "Well, listen, Lu,--so
much, that, when he forgets me,--and he will, Lu, one day,--I shall die."

"Prevent his forgetting you, Yone!" she returned. "Make your soul white and clear, like his."

"No! no!" I answered. "He loves me as I am. I will never change."

Then somehow tears began to come. I didn't want to cry; I had to crowd them back behind my
fingers and shut lids.

"Oh, Lu!" I said, "I cannot think what it would be to live, and he not a part of me! not for
either of us to be in the world without the other!"

Then Lu's tears fell with mine, as she drew her fingers over my hair. She said she was happy,
too; and to-day has been down and gathered every one, so that, when you see her, her white
array will be wreathed with purple hearts-ease. But I didn't tell Lu quite the truth, you must
know. I don't think I should die, except to my former self, if Rose ceased to love me. I should
change. Oh, I should hate him! Hate is as intense as love.

Bless me! What time can it be? There are papa and Rose walking in the garden. I turned out
my maid to find chance for all this talk; I must ring for her. There, there's my hair! silken
coil after coil, full of broken lights, rippling below the knees, fine and fragrant. Who could
have such hair but I? I am the last of the Willoughbys, a decayed race, and from such strong
decay what blossom less gorgeous should spring?

October now. All the world swings at the top of its beauty; and those hills where we shall
live, what robes of color fold them! Tawny filemot gilding the valleys, each seam and rut a
scroll or arabesque, and all the year pouring out her heart's blood to flush the maples, the
great impurpled granites warm with the sunshine they have drunk all summer! So I am to be married
to-day, at noon. I like it best so; it is my hour. There is my veil, that regal Venice point.
Fling it round you. No, you would look like a ghost in one,--Lu like a corpse. Dear me! That's
the second time I've rung for Carmine. I dare say the hussy is trying on my gown. You think
it strange I don't delay? Why, child, why tempt Providence? Once mine, always mine. He might
wake up. No, no, I couldn't have meant that! It is not possible that I have merely led him
into a region of richer dyes, lapped him in this vision of color, kindled his heart to such
a flame, that it may light him towards further effort. Can you believe that he will slip from
me and return to one in better harmony with him? Is any one? Will he ever find himself with
that love lost, this love exhausted, only his art left him? Never! I am his crown. See me!
how singularly, gloriously beautiful! For him only! all for him! I love him! I cannot, I will
not lose him! I defy all! My heart's proud pulse assures me! I defy Fate! Hush! One,--two,--twelve
o'clock. Carmine!

III.

Astra castra, numen lumen.

The click of her needles and the soft singing of the night-lamp are the only sounds breaking
the stillness, the awful stillness, of this room. How the wind blows without! it must be whirling
white gusty drifts through the split hills. If I were as free! Whistling round the gray gable,
tearing the bleak boughs, crying faint, hoarse moans down the chimneys! A wild, sad gale! There
is a lull, a long breathless lull, before it soughs up again. Oh, it is like a pain! Pain!
Why do I think the word? Must I suffer any more? Am I crazed with opiates? or am I dying? They
are in that drawer,--laudanum, morphine, hyoscyamus, and all the drowsy sirups,--little drops,
but soaring like a fog, and wrapping the whole world in a dull ache, with no salient sting
to catch a groan on. They are so small, they might be lost in this long, dark room; why not
the pain too, the point of pain, I? A long, dark room; I at one end, she at the other; the
curtains drawn away from me that I may breathe. Ah, I have been stifled so long! They look
down on me, all those old dead and gone faces, those portraits on the wall,--look all from
their frames at me, the last term of the race, the vanishing summit of their design. A fierce
weapon thrust into the world for evil has that race been,--from the great gray Willoughby,
threatening with his iron eyes there, to me, the sharp apex of its suffering. A fierce, glittering
blade! Why I alone singled for this curse? Rank blossom, rank decay, they answer, but falsely.
I lie here, through no fault of mine, blasted by disease, the dread with no relief. A hundred
ancestors look from my walls, and see in me the centre of their lives, of all their little
splendor, of their sins and follies; what slept in them wakes in me. Oh, let me sleep too!

How long could I live and lose nothing? I saw my face in the hand-glass this morning,--more
lovely than health fashioned it;--transparent skin, bounding blood, with its fire burning behind
the eye, on cheek, on lip,--a beauty that every pang has aggravated, heightened, sharpened,
to a superb intensity, flushing, rapid, unearthly,--a brilliancy to be dreamed of. Like a great
autumn-leaf I fall, for I am dying,--dying! Yes, death finds me more beautiful than life made
me; but have I lost nothing? Great Heaven, I have lost all!

A fancy comes to me, that to-day was my birthday. I have forgotten to mark time; but if it
was, I am thirty-two years old. I remember birthdays of a child,--loving, cordial days. No
one remembers to-day. Why should they? But I ache for a little love. Thirty-two,--that is young
to die! I am too fair, too rich, for death!--not his fit spoil! Is there no one to save me?
no help? can I not escape? Ah, what a vain eagerness! what an idle hope! Fall back again, heart!
Escape? I do not desire to. Come, come, kind rest! I am tired.

That cap-string has loosened now, and all this golden cataract of hair has rushed out over
the piled pillows. It oppresses and terrifies me. If I could speak, it seems to me that I would
ask Louise to come and bind it up. Won't she turn and see?

Have I been asleep? What is this in my hands? The amber gods? Oh, yes! I asked to see them
again; I like their smell, I think. It is ten years I have had them. They enchant; but the
charm will not last; nothing will. I rubbed a little yellow smoke out of them,--a cloud that
hung between him and the world, so that he saw only me,--at least----What am I dreaming of?
All manner of illusions haunt me. Who said anything about ten years? I have been married ten
years. Happy, then, ten years? Oh, no! One day he woke.--How close the room is! I want some
air. Why don't they do something----

Once, in the pride of a fool, I fear having made some confidence, some recital of my joy to
ears that never had any. Did I say I would not lose him? Did I say I could live just on the
memory of that summer? I lash myself that I must remember it! that I ever loved him! When he
stirred, when the mist left him, when he found a mere passion had blinded him, when he spread
his easel, when he abandoned love,--was I wretched? I, too, abandoned love!--more,--I hated!
All who hate are wretched. But he was bound to me! Yes, he might move restlessly,--it only
clanked his chains. Did he wound me? I was cruel. He never spoke. He became artist,--ceased
to be man,--was more indifferent than the cloud. He could paint me then,--and, revealed and
bare, all our histories written in me, he hung me up beside my ancestors. There I hang. Come
from thy frame, thou substance, and let this troubled phantom go! Come! for he gave my life
to thee. In thee he shut and sealed it all, and left me as the empty husk. Did she come then?
No! I sent for her. I meant to teach him that he was yet a man,--to open before him a gulf
of anguish; but I slipped down it. Then I dogged them; they never spoke alone; I intercepted
the eye's language; I withered their wintry smiles to frowns; I stifled their sighs; I checked
their breath, their motion. Idle words passed our lips; we three lived in a real world of silence,
agonized mutes. She went. Summer by summer my father brought her to us. Always memory was kindled
afresh, always sorrow kept smouldering. Once she came; I lay here; she has not left me since.
He,--he also comes; he has soothed pain with that loveless eye, carried me in untender arms,
watched calmly beside my delirious nights. He who loved beauty has learned disgust. Why should
I care? I, from the slave of bald form, enlarged him to the master of gorgeous color; his blaze
is my ashes. He studies me. I owe him nothing.

Is it near morning? Have I dozed again? Night is long. The great hall-clock is striking,--throb
after throb on the darkness. I remember, when I was a child, watching its lengthened pendulum
swing as if time were its own, and it measured the thread slowly, loath to part,--remember
streaking its great ebony case with a little finger, misting it with a warm breath. Throb after
throb,--is it going to peal forever? Stop, solemn clangor! hearts, stop! Midnight.

The nurses have gone down; she sits there alone. Her bent side-face is full of pity. Now and
then her head turns; the great brown eyes lift heavily, and lie on me,--heavily, as if the
sight of me pained her. Ah, in me perishes her youth! death enters her world! Besides, she
loves me. I do not want her love,--I would fling it off; but I am faint,--I am impotent,--I
am so cold! Not that she lives, and I die,--not that she has peace, and I tumult,--not for
her voice's music,--not for her eye's lustre,--not for any charm of her womanly presence,--neither
for her clear, fair soul,--nor that, when the storm and winter pass, and I am stiff and frozen,
she smiles in the sun, and leads new life,--not for all this I hate her; but because my going
gives her what I lost,--because, I stepped aside, the light falls on her,--because from my
despair springs her happiness. Poor fool! let her be happy, if she can! Her mother was a Willoughby!
And what is a flower that blows on a grave?

Why do I remember so distinctly one night alone of all my life,--one night, when we dance in
the low room of a seaside cottage,--dance to Lu's singing? He leads me to her, when the dance
is through, brushing with his head the festooned nets that swing from the rafters,--and in
at the open casement is blown a butterfly, a dead butterfly, from off the sea. She holds it
compassionately till I pin it on my dress,--the wings, twin magnificences, freckled and barred
and dusty with gold, fluttering at my breath. Some one speaks with me; she strays to the window,
he follows, and they are silent. He looks far away over the gray loneliness stretching beyond.
At length he murmurs: "A brief madness makes my long misery. Louise, if the earth were dazzled
aside from her constant pole-star to worship some bewildering comet, would she be more forlorn
than I?"

"Dear Rose! your art remains," I hear her say.

He bends lower, that his breath may scorch her brow. "Was I wrong? Am I right?" he whispers,
hurriedly. "You loved me once; you love me now, Louise, if I were free?"

"But you are not free."

She does not recoil, yet her very atmosphere repels him, while looking up with those woful
eyes blanching her cheek by their gathering darkness. "And, Rose,"----she sighs, then ceases
abruptly, while a quiver of sudden scorn writhes spurningly down eyelid and nostril and pains
the whole face.

He erects himself, then reaches his hand for the rose in her belt, glances at me,--the dead
thing in my bosom rising and falling with my turbulent heart,--holds the rose to his lips,
leaves her. How keen are my ears! how flushed my cheek! how eager and fierce my eyes! He approaches;
I snatch the rose and tear its petals in an angry shower, and then a dim east-wind pours in
and scatters my dream like flakes of foam. All dreams go; youth and hope desert me; the dark
claims me. O room, surrender me! O sickness and sorrow, loose your weary hold!

It maddens me to know that the sun will shine again, the tender grass grow green, the veery
sing, the crocus come. She will walk in the light and re-gather youth, and I moulder, a forgotten
heap. Oh, why not all things crash to ruin with me?

Pain, pain, pain! Where is my father? Why is he away, when they know I die? He used to hold
me once; he ought to hear me when I call. He would rest me, and stroke the grief aside,--he
is so strong. Where is he?

These amulets stumbling round again? Amber, amber gods, you did mischief in your day! If I
clutched you hard, as Lu did once, all your spells would be broken.--It is colder than it was.
I think I will go to sleep.

What was that? How loud and resonant! It stuns me. It is too sonorous. Does sound flash? Ah!
the hour. Another? How long the silver toll swims on the silent air! It is one o'clock,--a
passing bell, a knell. If I were at home by the river, the tide would be turning down, down,
and out to the broad, broad sea. Is it worth while to have lived?

Have I spoken? She looks at me, rises, and touches that bell-rope that always brings him. How
softly he opens the door! Waiting, perhaps. Well. Ten years have not altered him much. The
face is brighter, finer,--shines with the eternal youth of genius. They pause a moment; I suppose
they are coming to me; but their eyes are on each other.

Why must the long, silent look with which he met her the day I got my amber strike back on
me now so vindictively? I remember three looks: that, and this, and one other,--one fervid
noon, a look that drank my soul, that culminated my existence. Oh, I remember! I lost it a
little while ago. I have it now. You are coming? Can't you hear me? See! these costly liqueurs,
these precious perfumes beside me here, if I can reach them, I will drench the coverlet in
them; it shall be white and sweet as a little child's. I wish they were the great rich lilies
of that day; it is too late for the baby May-flowers. You do not like amber? There the thread
breaks again! the little cruel gods go tumbling down the floor! Come, lay my head on your breast!
kiss my life off my lips! I am your Yone! I forgot a little while,--but I love you, Rose! Rose!

       *       *       *       *       *

Why! I thought arms held me. How clear the space is! The wind from out-doors, rising again,
must have rushed in. There is the quarter striking. How free I am! No one here? No swarm of
souls about me? Oh, those two faces looked from a great mist, a moment since; I scarcely see
them now. Drop, mask! I will not pick you up! Out, out into the gale! back to my elements!

So I passed out of the room, down the staircase. The servants below did not see me, but the
hounds crouched and whined. I paused before the great ebony clock; again the fountain broke,
and it chimed the half-hour; it was half-past one; another quarter, and the next time its ponderous
silver hammers woke the house it would be two. Half-past one? Why, then, did not the hands
move? Why cling fixed on a point five minutes before the first quarter struck? To and fro,
soundless and purposeless, swung the long pendulum. And, ah! what was this thing I had become?
I had done with time. Not for me the hands moved on their recurrent circle any more.

I must have died at ten minutes past one.

THE MEMORIAL OF A. B., OR MATILDA MUFFIN.

THE MEMORIAL OF A. B.

Humbly Showeth:--

Ladies and gentlemen,--enlightened public,--kind audience,--dear readers,--or whatever else
you may be styled,--whose eyes, from remote regions of east, west, or next door, solace themselves
between the brown covers of this magazine, making of themselves flowers to its lunar brilliancy,--I
wish to state, with all humility and self-disgust, that I am what is popularly called a literary
woman.

In the present state of society, I should feel less shame in declaring myself the elect lady
of Dunderhed Van Nudel, Esquire, that wealthy Dutch gentleman, aged seventy, whom we all know.
It is true, that, as I am young and gay and intelligent, while he is old and stupid and very
low Dutch indeed, such an announcement would be equivalent to saying that I was bought by Mr.
Van Nudel for half a million of dollars; but then that is customary, and you would all congratulate
me.

Also, I should stand a better chance of finding favor in your eyes, if I declared myself to
be an indigent tailoress; for no woman should use her head who can use her hands,--a maxim
older than Confucius.

Or even if I were a school-ma'am! (blessed be the man who has brought them into fashion and
the long path!) In that case, you might say, "Poor thing! isn't she interesting? quite like
the school-mistress!"--And I am not averse to pity, since it is love's poor cousin, nor to
belonging to a class mentioned in Boston literary society. I really am not!

But the plain truth is, I earn my living by writing. Sewing does not pay. I have no "faculty"
at school-keeping; for I invariably spoil all the good children, and pet all the pretty ones,--a
process not conducive, as I am told, to the development of manners or morals;--so I write:
just as Mr. Jones makes shoes, Mr. Peters harangues the jury, Mr. Smith sells calico, or Mr.
Robinson rolls pills.

For, strange as it may seem, when it is so easy to read, it is hard work to write,--bonâ fide,
undeniable hard work. Suppose my head cracks and rings and reels with a great ache that stupefies
me? In comes Biddy with a letter.

     "The editor of the 'Monthly Signpost' would be much obliged to
     Miss Matilda Muffin for a tale of four pages, to make up the
     June number, before the end of next week.

                    "Very respectfully, etc., etc."

Miss Muffin's head looks her in the face, (metaphorically,) and says, "You can't!"--but her
last year's bonnet creaks and rustles from the bandbox, finally lifts the lid and peeps out.
Gracious! the ghost in Hamlet was not more of an "airy nothing" than that ragged, faded, dilapidated
old structure of crape and blonde. The bonnet retires to the sound of slow music; the head
slinks back and holds its tongue; Miss Muffin sits down at her table; scratch, scratch, scratch,
goes the old pen, and the ideas catch up with it, it is so shaky; and the words go tumbling
over it, till the ts go out without any hats on, and the eyes--no, the is (is that the way
to pluralize them?)--get no dots at all; and every now and then the head says, softly, "Oh,
dear!" Miss Muffin goes to something called by novel-writers "repose," toward one o'clock that
night, and the next night, and the next; she obliges the "Monthly Signpost" with a comic story
at a low price, and buys herself a decent little bonnet for Sundays, replenishing her wardrobe
generally by the same process; and the head considers it work, I assure you.

But this is not the special grievance to which I direct this Memorial. I like to work; it suits
me much better to obtain my money by steady, honest effort than it would to depend on anybody
else for one round cent. If I had a thousand dollars unexpectedly left me by some unknown benefactor,
I don't think it would be worth five cents on the dollar, compared with what I earn; there
is a healthy, trustworthy pleasure in that, never yet attained by gifted or inherited specie.
Neither is it the publicity of the occupation that I here object to. I knew that, before I
began to write; and many an hour have I cried over the thought of being known, and talked about,
and commented on,--having my dear name, that my mother called me by, printed on the cover of
a magazine, seeing it in newspapers, hearing it in whispers, when Miss Brown says to Miss Black
under her breath,--"That girl in the straw bonnet is Matilda Muffin, who writes for the 'Snapdragon'
and the 'Signpost.'"

I knew all this, as I say. I dreaded and hated it. I hate it now. But I had to work, and this
was the only way open to me; so I tried to be brave, and to do what I ought, and let the rest
go. I cannot say I am very brave yet, or that I don't feel all this; but I do not memorialize
against it, because it is necessary to be borne, and I must bear it. When I go to the dentist's
to have a tooth out, I sit down, and hold the chair tight, and open my mouth as wide as it
will open, but I always say, "Oh! don't, doctor! I can't! I can't possibly!" till the iron
what-d'you-call-it enters my soul and stops my tongue.

Yes, when I began to write, I knew I should some day see my name in print. I knew people would
wonder who and what I was, and how I looked;--I had done it myself. I knew that I should be
delivered over to be the prey of tongues and the spoil of eyes. I was aware, I think, I am
aware now, of every possible "disagreeable" that can befall the state. I am accustomed to hear
people say, if I venture a modest opinion about a dinner, "Dear me! as if a literary woman
knew anything about cooking!"--I endure that meekly, sustained by the inner consciousness that
I can cook much better than any artist in that line I ever yet encountered. Likewise I am used
to hear people say, "I suppose you don't waste your valuable time in sewing?" when a look at
my left forefinger would insure me a fraternal grip from any member of the Seamstress's Friends
Society anywhere. I do not either scold or cry when accidentally some visitor discovers me
fitting my dress or making my bonnet, and looks at me with a "fearful joy," as if I were on
a tight-rope. I even smile when people lay my ugly shawl or passé bonnet, that I bought because
they were cheap, and wear for the same reason, at the door of the "eccentricities of genius."
And I am case-hardened to the instantaneous scattering and dodging of young men that ensue
the moment I enter a little party, because "gentlemen are so afraid of literary women." I don't
think gentlemen are; I know two or three who never conceal a revolver in the breast of their
coat when they talk to me, and who sometimes even offer to go home with me from a tea-party
all alone, and after dark too. It is true, one or two of these are "literary" themselves; the
others I knew before I was dyed blue; which may account for it. Also I am impervious to anonymous
letters, exhorting me to all kinds of mental and moral improvement, or indulging in idle impertinences
about my private affairs, the result of a knowledge about me and the aforesaid affairs drawn
solely from my "Pieces in Prose and Verse."

Then as to the matter of the romantic stories that are afloat concerning me, I am rather amused
than otherwise by them. I have a sentimental name, by the religious and customary ordinance
of baptism, legally my own; and at first, being rather loath to enter the great alliterative
ranks of female writers by my lawful title of Matilda Muffin, I signed my writings "A. B."

Two reprobatory poems addressed to those initials came to me through the medium of the "Snapdragon,"
immediately after my having printed in that spicy paper a pensive little poem called "The Rooster's
Cry": one, in Spenserian measure, rebuking me for alluding lightly to serious subjects,--a
thing I never do, I am sure, and I can't imagine what "J. H. P." meant; and another, in hexameter,
calling upon me to "arouse," and "smile," and "struggle on," and, in short, to stop crying
and behave myself,--only it was said in figures. I'm much obliged to "Quintius" for the advice;
but I should like to explain, that I am subject to the toothache, and when it is bad I cannot
possibly write comic poetry. I must be miserable, but it's only toothache, thank you!

Then I have heard several times, in the strictest confidence, the whole history of "A. B.,
who writes for the 'Snapdragon.'" Somebody told me she was a lady living on the North River,
very wealthy, very haughty, and very unhappy in her domestic relations. Another said she was
a young widow in Alabama, whose mother was extremely tyrannical, and opposed her second marriage.
A third person declared to me that A. B. was a physician in the navy,--a highly educated man,
but reduced in circumstances. I think that was a great compliment,--to be actually taken for
a man! I felt it to be "the proudest moment of my life," as ship-captains say, when they return
thanks for the silver teapot richly chased with nautical emblems, presented by the passengers
saved from the wreck, as a token of gratitude for the hencoops thrown overboard by the manly
commander. However, I called myself a woman in the very next contribution, for fear of the
united wrath of the stronger sex, should I ever be discovered to have so imposed upon the public;
although I know several old women who remain undiscovered to this day, simply because they
avail themselves of a masculine signature.

There were other romances, too tedious to mention, depicting me sometimes as a lovely blonde,
writing graceful tales beneath a bower of roses in the warm light of June; sometimes as a respectable
old maid, rather sharp, fierce, and snuffy; sometimes as a tall, delicate, aristocratic, poetic
looking creature, with liquid dark eyes and heavy tresses of raven hair; sometimes as a languishing,
heart-broken woman in the prime of life, with auburn curls and a slow consumption.

Perhaps it may be as well to silence all conjecture at once, by stating that I am a woman of----no,
I won't say how old, because everybody will date me from this time forward, and I shall not
always be willing to tell how old I am! I am not very young now, it is true; I am more than
sixteen and less than forty; so when our clergyman requested all between those ages to remain
after service for the purpose of forming a week-day Bible-class, I sat still, and so did everybody
else except Mrs. Van Doren, whose great-grandchild was christened in the morning;--our church
is a new one.

However, this is digressing. I am not very tall, nor very short; I am rather odd-looking, but
decidedly plain. I have brown hair and eyes, a pale light complexion, a commonplace figure,
pretty good taste in dress, and a quick sense of the ludicrous, that makes me laugh a great
deal, and have a good time generally.

I live at home, in the town of Blank, in a quiet by-street. My parents are both living, and
we keep one Irish girl. I go to church on Sundays, and follow my trade week-days.

I write everything I do write in my own room, which is not so pleasant as a bower of roses
in some respects, but is preferable in regard to earwigs and caterpillars, which are troublesome
in bowers. I have a small pine table to write on, as much elderly furniture as supplies me
places for sleep and my books, a small stove in winter, (which is another advantage over bowers,)
and my "flowing draperies" are blue chintz, which I bought at a bargain; some quaint old engravings
of Bartolozzi's in black and gilt frames; a few books, among which are prominently set forth
a volume of "The Doctor,"--Nicolò de' Lapi, in delightful bindings of white parchment,--Thomas
à Kempis,--a Bible, of English type and paper,--and Emerson's Poems, bound in Russia leather.
Not that I have no other books,--grammars, and novels, and cook-books, in gorgeous array,--but
these are within reach from my pillow, when I want to read myself asleep; and a plaster cast
of Minerva's owl mounts guard above them, curious fowl that it is.

The neighbors think I am a pretty nice girl, and my papa secretly exults over me as a genius,
but he don't say much about it. And there, dear public, you have Matilda Muffin as she is,
which I hope will quash the romances, amusing though they be.

But when, after much editorial correspondence, and persevering whispers of kind friends who
had been told the facts in confidence, A. B. became only the pretext of a mystery, and I signed
myself by my full name, the question naturally arose,--"Who is Matilda Muffin?"

Now, for the first time in my life, do I experience the benefits of a sentimental name, which
has rather troubled me before, as belonging to a quite unsentimental and commonplace person,
and thereby raising expectations, through hearsay, which actual vision dispelled with painful
suddenness. But now I find its advantage, for nobody believes it is my own, but confidently
expects that Ann Tubbs or Susan Bucket will appear from a long suppression, like a Jack-in-a-box,
and startle the public as she throws back the cover.

Indeed, I am told that not long since a circle of literary experimentalists, discussing a recent
number of a certain magazine, and displaying great knowledge of noms-de-plume, ran aground
all at once upon "Who is Matilda Muffin?"--even as, in the innocent faith of childhood, I pondered
ten minutes upon "Who was the father of Zebedee's children?" and at last "gave up." But these
professional gentlemen, nowise daunted by the practical difficulties of the subject, held on,
till at last one, wiser in his generation than the rest, confidently announced that he knew
Matilda Muffin's real name, but was not at liberty to disclose it. Should this little confidence
ever reach the eyes of those friends, I wish to indorse that statement in every particular;
that gentleman does know my name; and know all men, by these presents, I give him full leave
to disclose it,--or rather, to save him the trouble, I disclose it myself. My name, my own,
that would have been printed in the marriage-list of the "Snapdragon" before now, if it had
not appeared in the list of contributors, and which will appear in its list of deaths some
day to come,--my name, that is called to breakfast, marked on my pocket-handkerchiefs, written
in my books, and done in yellow paint on my trunk, is--Matilda Muffin. "Only that, and nothing
more!" And "A. B.," which I adopted once as a species of veil to the aforesaid alliterative
title, did not mean, as was supposed, "A Beauty," or "Any Body," or "Another Barrett," or "Anti
Bedott," or "After Breakfast," but only "A. B.," the first two letters of the alphabet. Peace
to their ashes!--let them rest!

But, dear me! I forgot the Memorial! As I have said, all these enumerated troubles do not much
move me, nor yet the world-old cry of all literary women's being, in virtue of their calling,
unfeminine. I don't think anybody who knows me can say that about me; in fact, I am generally
regarded by my male cousins as a "little goose," and a "foolish child," and "a perfectly absurd
little thing,"--epithets that forbid the supposition of their object being strong-minded or
having Women's Rights;--and as for people who don't know me, I care very little what they think.
If I want them to like me, I can generally make them,--having a knack that way.

But there is one thing against which I do solemnly protest and uplift my voice, as a piece
of ridiculous injustice and supererogation,--and that is, that every new poem or fresh story
I write and print should be supposed and declared to be part and parcel of my autobiography.
Good gracious! Goethe himself, "many-sided" as the old stone Colossus might have been, would
have retreated in dismay from such a host of characters as I have appeared in, according to
the announcement of admiring friends.

My dear creatures, do just look at the common sense of the thing! Can I have been, by any dexterity
known to man, of mind or body, such a various creature, such a polycorporate animal, as you
make me to be? Because I write the anguish and suffering of an elderly widow with a drunken
husband, am I therefore meek and of middle age, the slave of a rum-jug? I have heard of myself
successively as figuring in the character of a strong-minded, self-denying Yankee girl,--a
broken-hearted Georgia beauty,--a fairy princess,--a consumptive school-mistress,--a young
woman dying of the perfidy of her lover,--a mysterious widow; and I daily expect to hear that
a caterpillar which figured as hero in one of my tales was an allegory of myself, and that
a cat mentioned in "The New Tobias" is a travesty of my heart-experience.

Now this is rather more than "human natur" can stand. It is true that in my day and generation
I have suffered as everybody does, more or less. It is likewise true that I have suffered from
the same causes that other people do. I am happy to state that in the allotments of this life
authoresses are not looked upon as "literary," but simply as women, and have the same general
dispensations with the just and the unjust; therefore, in attempting to excite other people's
sympathies, I have certainly touched and told many stories that were not strange to my own
consciousness; I do not know very well how I could do otherwise. And in trying to draw the
common joys and sorrows of life, I certainly have availed myself of experience as well as observation;
but I should seem to myself singularly wanting in many traits which I believe I possess, were
I to obtrude the details of my own personal and private affairs upon the public. And I offer
to those who have so interpreted me a declaration which I trust may relieve them from all responsibility
of this kind in future; I hereby declare, asseverate, affirm, and whatever else means to swear,
that I never have offered and never intend to offer any history whatever of my personal experience,
social, literary, or emotional, to the readers of any magazine, newspaper, novel, or correspondence
whatever. Nor is there any one human being who has ever heard or ever will hear the whole of
that experience,--no, not even Dunderhed Van Nudel, Esquire, should he buy me to-morrow!

Also, I wish to relieve the minds of many friendly readers, who, hearing and believing these
reports, bestow upon me a vast amount of sympathy that is worthy of a better fate. My dear
friends, as I said before, it is principally toothache; poetry is next best to clove-oil, and
less injurious to the enamel. I beg of you not to suppose that every poet who howls audibly
in the anguish of his soul is really afflicted in the said soul; but one must have respect
for the dignity of High Art. Answer me now with frankness, what should you think of a poem
that ran in this style?--

    "The sunset's gorgeous wonder
      Flashes and fades away;
    But my back-tooth aches like thunder,
      And I cannot now be gay!"

Now just see how affecting it is, when you "change the venue," as lawyers say:--

    "The sunset's gorgeous wonder
      Flashes and fades away;
    But I hear the muttering thunder,
      And my sad heart dies like the day."

I leave it to any candid mind, what would be the result to literature, if such a course were
pursued?

Besides, look at the facts in the case. You read the most tearful strains of the most melancholy
poet you know; if you took them verbatim, you would expect him to be found by the printer's-boy,
sent for copy, "by starlight on the north side of a tombstone," as Dr. Bellamy said, enjoying
a northeaster without any umbrella, and soaking the ground with tears, unwittingly antiseptic,
in fact, as Mr. Mantalini expressed himself, "a damp, moist, unpleasant body." But where, I
ask, does that imp find the aforesaid poet, when he goes to get the seventh stanza of the "Lonely
Heart"? Why, in the gentlemen's parlor of a first-class hotel, his feet tilted up in the window,
his apparel perfectly dry and shiny with various ornamental articles appended, his eyes half
open over a daily paper, his parted lips clinging to a cigar, his whole aspect well-to-do and
comfortable. And aren't you glad of it? I am; there is so much real misery in the world, that
don't know how to write for the papers, and has to have its toothache all by itself, when a
simple application of bread and milk or bread and meat would cure it, that I am glad to have
the apparent sum of human misery diminished, even at the expense of being a traitor in the camp.

And still further, for your sakes, dear tender-hearted friends, who may suppose that I am wearing
this mask of joy for the sake of deluding you into a grim and respectful sympathy,--you, who
will pity me whether or no,--I confess that I have some material sorrows for which I will gladly
accept your tears. My best bonnet is very unbecoming. I even heard it said the other day, striking
horror to my soul, that it looked literary! And I'm afraid it does! Moreover, my only silk
dress that is presentable begins to show awful symptoms of decline and fall; and though you
may suppose literature to be a lucrative business, between ourselves it is not so at all, (very
likely the "Atlantic" gentlemen will omit that sentence, for fear of a libel-suit from the
trade,--but it's all the same a fact, unless you write for the "Dodger,")--and, I'm likely
to mend and patch and court-plaster the holes in that old black silk, another year at least:
but this is my solitary real anguish at present.

I do assure all and sundry my reporters, my sympathizers, and my readers, that all that I have
stated in this present Memorial is unvarnished fact, whatever they may say, read, or feel to
the contrary,--and that, although I am a literary woman, and labor under all the liabilities
and disabilities contingent thereto, I am yet sound in mind and body, (except for the toothache,)
and a very amusing person to know, with no quarrel against life in general or anybody in particular.
Indeed, I find one advantage in the very credulous and inquisitive gossip against which I memorialize;
for I think I may expect fact to be believed, when fiction is swallowed whole; and I feel sure
of seeing, directly on the publication of this document, a notice in the "Snapdragon," the
"Badger," or the "Coon," (whichever paper gets that number of the magazine first,) running
in this wise:--

     "MATILDA MUFFIN.--We welcome in the last number of the
     'Atlantic Monthly' a brief and spirited autobiography of this
     lady, whose birth, parentage, and home have so long been wrapt
     in mystery. The hand of genius has rent asunder the veil of
     reserve, and we welcome the fair writer to her proper position
     in the Blank City Directory, and post-office list of boxes."

After which, I shall resign myself tranquilly to my fate as a unit, and glide down the stream
of life under whatever skies shine or scowl above, always and forever nobody but

              MATILDA MUFFIN.
    BLANK, 67 Smith Street.

SOME ACCOUNT OF A VISIONARY.

"Dear old Visionary!" It was the epithet usually applied to Everett Gray by his friends and
neighbors. It expresses very well the estimation in which he was held by nineteen-twentieths
of his world. People couldn't help feeling affection for him, considerably leavened by a half-pitying,
half-wondering appreciation of his character. He was so good, so kind, so gifted, too. Pity
he was so dreamy and romantic, et cetera, et cetera.

Now, from his youth up, nay, from very childhood, Everett had borne the character thus implied.
A verdict was early pronounced on him by an eminent phrenologist who happened to be visiting
the family. "A beautiful mind, a comprehensive intellect, but marvellously unpractical,--singularly
unfitted to cope with the difficulties of every-day life." And Everett's mother, hanging on
the words of the man of science, breathless and tearful, murmured to herself, while stroking
her unconscious little son's bright curls,--"I always feared he was too good for this wicked
world."

The child began to justify the professor's dictum with his very first entry into active life.
He entertained ideas for improving the social condition of rabbits, some time before he could
conveniently raise himself to a level with the hutch in which three of them, jointly belonging
to himself and his brother, abode. His theory was consummate; in practice, however, it proved
imperfect,--and great wrath on the part of Richard Gray, and much confusion and disappointment
to Everett, were the result.

Richard, two years younger than Everett by the calendar, was at least three older than he in
size, appearance, habits, and self-assertion. He was what is understood by "a regular boy":
a fine, manly little fellow, practical, unsensitive, hard-headed, and overflowing with life
and vigor. He had little patience with his brother's quiet ways; and his unsuccessful attempts
at working out theories met with no sympathy at his hands.

After the affair of the rabbits, his experiments, however certain of success he deemed them,
were always made on or with regard to his own belongings. The little plot of garden-ground
which he held in absolute possession was continually being dug up and refashioned, in his eager
efforts to convert it successively into a vineyard, a Portuguese quinta, (to effect which he
diligently planted orange-pips and manured the earth with the peel,) or, favorite scheme of
all, a wheat-field,--dimensions, eighteen feet by twelve,--the harvest of which was to provide
all the poor children of the village with bread, in those hard seasons when their pinched faces
and shrill, complaining cries appealed so mightily to little Everett's heart.

Nevertheless, and in spite of all his care and watching, it is to be feared that very few of
the big loaves which found their way from the hall to the village, that winter, were composed
of the produce of his corn-field. More experienced farmers than this youthful agriculturist
might not have been surprised at the failure of his crop. He was. Indeed, it was a valiant
characteristic of him, throughout his life, that he never grew accustomed to failure, however
serenely he took it, when it came. He grieved and perplexed himself about it, silently, but
not hopelessly. New ideas dawned on his mind, fresh designs of relief were soon entertained,
and essayed to be put in practice. These were many, and of various degrees of feasibility,--ranging
from the rigorously pursued plan of setting aside a portion of his daily bread and butter in
a bag, and of his milk in a can, and bestowing the little store on the nearest eligible object,
up to the often pondered one of obtaining possession of the large barn in the cow-field, furnishing
the same, and establishing therein all the numerous houseless wanderers who used to come and
ask for aid at the hands of Everett's worthy and magisterial father.

That father's judicial functions caused his eldest son considerable trouble and bewilderment
of mind. He asked searching questions sometimes, when, of an evening, perched on Mr. Gray's
knee, and looking with his wondering, steadfast eyes into the face of that erewhile stern and
impassible magistrate. The large justice-room, where the prisoners were examined, had an awful
fascination to him; and so had the little "strong-room," in which sometimes they were locked
up before being conveyed away to the county jail. Often, he wandered restlessly near it, looking
at the door with strange, mournful eyes; and if by chance the culprit passed out before him,
under the guardianship of the terrible, red-faced constable,--Everett's earliest and latest
conception of the Devil,--how wistfully he would gaze at him, and what a world of thought and
puzzled speculation would float through his childish mind!

Once, he had a somewhat serious adventure connected with that dreadful strong-room.

There had been a man brought up before Mr. Gray, charged with poultry-stealing; and he had
been remanded for further examination. Meanwhile, he was placed in the strong-room, under lock-and-key,--Roger
Manby, as usual, standing sentinel in the passage. Now Roger's red face betokened a lively
appreciation of the sublunary and substantial attractions of beef and beer; and it seems probable
that the servants' dinner, going on below-stairs, was too great a temptation for even that
inflexible constable to resist. Howbeit, when the prisoner should have been produced before
the waiting bench, he was nowhere to be found. He had vanished, as by magic, from the strong-room,
without bolt being wrenched, or lock forced, or bar broken. The door was unfastened, and the
prisoner gone. Great was the consternation, profound the mystification of all parties. Roger
was severely reprimanded, and officers were sent off in various directions to recapture the
offender.

Mr. Gray seldom alluded to his public affairs when among his children; but that evening he
broke through the rule. At dessert, with little Everett, as usual, beside him, he mentioned
the mysterious incident of the morning to some friends who were dining with him, adding his
own conjectures as to the cause of the strange disappearance.

"It is certain he was let out. He could not have released himself. Circumstances are suspicious
against Manby, too; and he will probably lose his office. Like Cæsar's wife, a constable should
be beyond suspicion, and he must be dismissed, if"----

"Oh, papa!"--and Everett's orange fell to the floor, and Everett's face was lifted to his father's,
all-aglow with eager, painful feeling.

"You don't like old Roger," said Mr. Gray, patting his cheek. "Well, it is likely you won't
be troubled by him any more."

"Oh, papa! oh, papa! Roger is an ugly, cross man. But he didn't,--he didn't"----

"Didn't what, my boy?"

"Let the man out. He was in the kitchen all the time. I heard him laughing."

"You heard him? How?"

"I--I--oh, papa!"

The curly head sunk on the inquisitor's shoulder.

"Go on, Everett. What do you mean? Tell me the whole truth. You are not afraid to do that?"

"No, papa."

He looked up, with steady eyes, but cheeks on which the color flickered most agitatedly.

"I only wanted to look at the man; and the men had left a ladder against the wall by the little
grated window; and I climbed up, and looked in. And, oh! he had such a miserable face, papa!
And I couldn't help speaking to him."

"Well, go on."

The tone was not so peremptory as the words; and the child, too ignorant to be really frightened
at what he had done, went on with his confession, quite heedless of the numerous eyes fixed
upon him with various expressions of tenderness, amusement, and dismay. And very soon all came
out. Everett had deliberately and intentionally done the deed. He had been unable to withstand
the misery and entreaties of the man, and he had slipped down the ladder, run round to the
unguarded strong door, and with much toil forced back the great bolt, unfastened the chain,
and set the prisoner free.

"And do you know, Everett, what it is you have done?--how wrong you have been?"

"I was afraid it was a little wrong,"--he hesitated; "but,"--and his courage seemed to rise
again at the recollection,--"it would have been so dreadful for the poor man to go to prison!
He said he should be quite ruined,--quite ruined, papa; and his wife and the little children
would starve. You are not very angry, are you? Oh, papa!"

For Everett could hardly believe the stern gaze with which the magistrate forced himself to
regard his little son; and sternly uttered were the few words that followed, by which he endeavored
to make clear to the childish comprehension the gravity of the fault he had committed. Everett
was utterly subdued. The tone of displeasure smote on his heart and crushed it for the time.
Only once he brightened up, as with a sudden hope of complete justification, when Mr. Gray
adverted to the crime of the man, which had made it right and necessary that he should be punished.

"But, papa," eagerly broke in the boy, "he hadn't stolen the things. He told me so. He wasn't
a thief."

"One case was proved beyond doubt."

"Indeed, indeed, papa, you must be mistaken," cried Everett, with tearful vehemence; "he couldn't
have done it; I know he couldn't. He said, upon his word, he hadn't."

It was impossible to persuade him that such an asseveration could be false. And when the little
offender had left the room, various remarks and interjections were indulged in,--all breathing
the same spirit.

"What a jolly little muff Everett is!" was his brother Dick's contingent.

"Innocent little fellow!" said one.

"Happy little visionary!" sighed another.

And Everett grew in years and stature, and still unconsciously maintained the same character.
It is true that he was a quiet, sensitive boy, with an almost feminine affectionateness and
tenderness of heart,--and that keen, exquisite appreciation both of the joyful and the painful,
which is a feminine characteristic, too. Yet he was far enough from being effeminate. He was
thoughtful, naturally, yet he could be active and take pleasure in action. He was always ready
to work, and feared neither hardship nor fatigue. When the great flood came and caused such
terror and distress in the village, no one, not even Dick, home from Sandhurst for the midsummer
holidays, was more energetic or worked harder or more effectually than Everett. And the boys
(his brother's chums at Hazlewood) never forgot the day when Everett found them ill-treating
a little dog; how he rescued it from them, single-handed, and knocked down young Brooke, who
attacked him both with insults and blows. Dick, not ill-pleased, was looking on. He never called
his brother a "sop" from that day, but praised him and patronized him considerably for a good
while after, and began, as he said, "to have hopes of him."

But the two brothers never had much in common, and were, indeed, little thrown together. Everett
was educated at home; he was not strong, and was naturally his mother's darling, and she persuaded
his father and herself that a public school would be harmful to him. So he studied the classics
with the clergyman of the parish, and the lighter details of learning with his sister. Between
that sister and himself there was a strong attachment, though she, too, was of widely differing
temperament and disposition. Agnes was two years older than he,--and overflowing with saucy
life, energy, and activity. She liked to run wild about the woods near their house, or to gallop
over the country on her pony,--to go scrambling in the hedges for blackberries, or among the
copses for nuts. The still contentment that Everett found in reading,--his thoughtful enjoyment
of landscape, or sunset, or flower,--all this might have been incomprehensible to her, only
that she loved her dreamy brother so well. Love lends faith, and faith makes many things clear;
and Agnes learned to understand, and would wait patiently beside him on such occasions, only
tapping her feet, or swinging her bonnet by its strings, as a relief for the superabundant
vitality thus held in check. And she was Everett's confidante in all his schemes, wishes, and
anticipations. To her he would unfold the various plans he was continually cogitating. Agnes
would listen, sympathizingly sometimes, but reverently always. She never called or thought
him a Visionary. If his plans for the regeneration of the world were Utopian and impracticable,
it was the world that was in fault, not he. To her he was the dearest of brothers, who would
one day be acknowledged the greatest of men.

And thus Everett grew to early manhood, till the time arrived when he was to leave home for
Cambridge. It was his first advent in the world. Hitherto, his world had been one of books
and thought. He imagined college to be a place wherein a studious life, such as he loved, would
be most natural, most easy to be pursued. He should find a brother-enthusiast in every student;
he should meet with sympathy and help in all his dearest aspirations, on every side. Perhaps
it is needless to say that this young Visionary was disappointed, and that his collegiate career
was, in fact, the beginning of that crusade, active and passive, which it appeared to be his
destiny to wage against what is generally termed Real Life.

He was considerably laughed at, of course, by the majority of those about him. Some few choice
spirits tried to get up a lofty contempt of his quiet ways and simple earnestness,--but they
failed,--it not being in human nature, even the most scampish, to entertain scorn for that
which is innately true and noble. So, finally, the worst that befell him was ridicule,--which,
even when he was aware of it, hurt him little. Often, indeed, he would receive their jests
and artful civilities with implicit good faith; acknowledging apparent attentions with a gentle,
kindly courtesy, indescribably mystifying to those excellent young men who expended so much
needless pains on the easy work of "selling Old Gray."

However, from out the very ranks of the enemy, before he left college at the end of his first
term, he had one intimate. It would, perhaps, be difficult to understand how two-thirds of
the friendships in the world have their birth and maintain their existence. The connection
between Everett and Charles Barclay appeared to be of this enigmatical order. One would have
said the two could possess no single taste or sentiment in common. Charles was a handsome,
athletic fellow, warm-hearted, impassioned, generous, and thoughtless to cruelty. He had splendid
gifts, but no application,--plenty of power, but no perseverance. Supposed to be one of the
most brilliant men of his years, he had just been "plucked," to the dismay of his college and
the immense wrath of his friends. Everybody knew that Barclay was an orphan, left with a very
slender patrimony, who had gained a scholarship at the grammar-school. He was of no family,--he
was poor, and had his own way to make in life. It was doubly necessary to him that he should
succeed in his collegiate career. It was probably while under the temporary shadow of the disgrace
and disappointment of defeat, that the young man suddenly turned to Everett Gray, fastened
upon him with an affection most enthusiastic, a devotion that everybody found unaccountable.
He had energy enough for what he willed to do. He willed to have Everett's friendship, and
he would not be denied. The incongruous pair became friends. Whereupon, the rollicking comrades,
who had gladly welcomed Barclay into their set, for his fun and his wit and his convivial qualities,
turned sharp round, and marvelled at young Gray, who came of a high family, for choosing as
his intimate a fellow of no birth, no position. Not but that it was just like the Old Visionary
to do it; he'd no idea of life,--not he; and so forth.

During the next term, the friendship grew and strengthened. Everett's influence was working
for good, and Barclay was in earnest addressing himself to study. He accompanied Everett to
his home at the long vacation. And it ought to have surprised nobody who was acquainted with
the rationale of such affairs, that the principal event of that golden holiday-summer was the
falling in love with each other of Everett's sister and Everett's friend. Agnes was the only
daughter and special pride of a rich and well-born man. Barclay was of plebeian birth, with
nothing in the world to depend on but his own talents, which he had abused, and the before-named
patrimony, which was already nearly exhausted. It will at once be seen that there could hardly
be a more felicitous conjunction of circumstances to make everybody miserable by one easy,
natural step; and the step was duly taken. Of course, the young people fell in love immediately,--Everett,
the Dreamer, looking on with a sort of reverent interest that was almost awe; for the very
thought of love thrilled him with a sense of new and strange life,--unknown, unguessed of,
as heaven itself, but as certain, and hardly less beautiful. So he watched the gradual progress
of these two, who were passing through that which was so untrodden a mystery to him. If he
ever thought about their love in a more definite way, it was--oh, the Visionary!--to congratulate
himself and everybody concerned. He saw nothing but what was most happy and desirable in it
all. He knew no one so worthy of Agnes as Barclay, whom, in spite of all his faults, he believed
to be one of the noblest and greatest of men; and he felt sure that all that was wanting to
complete and solidify his character was just this love for a good, high-souled woman, which
would arouse him to energy and action, sustain and encourage him through all difficulties,
and make life at once more precious and more sacred.

Unfortunately, other members of the family, who were rational beings, and looked on life in
a practical and sensible manner, were very differently affected by the discovery of this attachment.
In brief, there ensued upon the éclaircissement much storm on one side, much grief on the other,
and keen pain to all,--to none more than to Everett. Our Visionary's heart swelled hotly with
alternate indignation and tenderness, as he knew his friend was forbidden the house, heard
his father's wrathful comments upon him, and saw his bright sister Agnes broken down by all
the heaviness of a first despair. You may imagine his passionate denunciation of the spirit
of worldliness, which would, for its own mean ends, separate those whom the divine sacrament
of Love had joined together. No less easily may be pictured the angry, yet half-compassionate
reception of his vehemence, the contemptuous wave of the hand with which the stern old banker
deprecated discussion with one so ignorant of the world, so utterly incapable of forming a
judgment on such a question, as his son. His mother sat by, during these scenes, trembling
and grieved. It was not in her meek nature to take part against either husband or son. She
strove to soothe, to soften each in turn,--with but little effect, it may be added. For all
he was so gentle and so loving, Everett was not to be persuaded or influenced in this matter.
He took up his friend's cause and withstood all antagonism, resisted all entreaties to turn
him from his fealty thereto.

Ay, and he bore up against what was harder yet to encounter than all these. Charles Barclay's
was one of those natures which, being miserable, are apt to become desperate. To such men,
affliction seems to be torture, but no discipline. But our humanity perceives from a level,
and therefore a short-sighted point of view. We may well be thankful that the Great Ruler sees
above and around and on all sides the creatures to be governed, the events to be disposed.

Charles Barclay went to London. One or two brief and most miserable letters Everett received
from him,--then all a blank silence. Everett's repeated appeals were unanswered, unnoticed.
It might have been as if Death had come between and separated these lovers and friends, except
that by indirect means they learned that he was alive and still in London. At length came more
definite tidings, and the brother and sister knew that this Charles Barclay, whom they loved
so well, had plunged into a reckless life, as into a whirlpool of destruction,--that he was
among those associates, of high rank socially, of nearly the lowest morally, whom he had formerly
known at college. Here was triumph for the prudent father,--desolation to the loving woman,--and
to Everett, what? Pain, keen pain, and bitter anxiety,--but no quailing of the heart. He had
too much faith in his friend for that.

He went after him to London,--he penetrated to him, and would not be denied. He braved his
assumed anger and forced violence; he had the courage of twenty lions, this Visionary, in battling
with the devils that had entered into the spirit of his friend. The struggle was fierce and
lengthened. Love conquered at last, as it always does, could we so believe. And during the
time of utter depression into which the mercurial nature then relapsed, Everett cheered and
sustained him,--till the young man's soul seemed melted within him, and the surrender to the
good influence was as absolute as the resistance had been passionate.

"What have I done, what am I," he would oftentimes say, "that I should be saved and sustained
and loved by you, Everett?" For, truly, he looked on him as no less than an angel, whom God
had sent to succor him. It was one of those problems the mystery of which is most sacred and
most sweet. In proportion as the erring man needed it, Everett's love grew and deepened and
widened, and his influence strengthened with it almost unconsciously to himself. He was too
humble to recognize all that he was to his friend.

Meanwhile, imagine the turmoil at home, in respect of Everett's absence, and the errand which
detained him. No disguise was sought. The son wrote to his mother frankly, stating where he
was, and under what circumstances. He received a missive from his father of furious remonstrance;
he replied by one so firm, yet so loving withal, that old Mr. Gray could not choose but change
his tone to one of angry compassion. "The boy believes he's doing right. Heaven send him a
little sense!" was all he could say.

But there came a yet more overwhelming evidence of Everett's utter destitution of that commodity.
A mercantile appointment was offered to Charles Barclay in one of the colonies, and Everett
advanced the large sum necessary to enable his friend to accept it. To do this, he sacrificed
the whole of what he possessed independently of his father, namely, a legacy left to him by
his uncle, over which he had full control. It must be years before he could be repaid, of course,--it
might be never! But, rash as was the act, he could not be hindered from doing it. His father
raged and stormed, and again subsided into gloomy resignation. Henceforth he would wonder at
nothing, for his son was mad, unfit to take part in the world. "A mere visionary, and no man,"
the hapless parent said, whenever he alluded to him.

When Everett returned, Charles Barclay was on his way to Canada, vigorously intent on the new
life before him. Agnes drew strength and comfort from the steadfast look of her brother's eyes,
as he whispered to her, "Don't fear. Trust God, and be patient." The blight fell away from
her, after that. If she was never a light-hearted girl again, she became something even sweeter
and nobler. They never talked together about him, for the father had forbidden it; and, indeed,
they needed not. Openly, and before them all, Everett would say when he heard from his friend.
And so the months passed on.

Then came the era in our Visionary's life,--an era, indeed, to such as he!--the first love.
First love,--and last,--to him it was nothing less than fateful. It was his nature to be steadfast
and thorough. He could no more have transferred the love that rose straightly and purely from
the very innermost fire of his soul than he could have changed the soul itself. Not many natures
are thus created with the inevitable necessity to be constant. Few among women, fewer yet among
men, love as Everett Gray loved Rosa Beauchamp.

When they became aware of this love, at his home, there ensued much marvelling. Mr. Gray cordially
congratulated himself, with wonder and pleasure, to think that actually his mad boy should
have chosen so reasonably. Captain Gray, home on leave, observed that Old Everett wasn't such
a flat as he seemed, by Jove! to select the daughter of an ancient house, and a wealthy house,
like the Beauchamps of Hollingsley. The alliance was in every way honorable and advantageous.
The family was one of the most influential in the county; and a lady's being at the head of
it--for Sir Ralph Beauchamp had died many years before, when his eldest son was but a child,
and Lady Beauchamp had been sole regent over the property ever since--made it all the pleasanter.
Everett, if he chose, might be virtual master of Beauchamp; for the young baronet was but a
weak, good-natured boy, whom any one might lead. Everett had displayed first-rate generalship.
"These simple-seeming fellows are often deeper than most people," argued the soldier, wise
in his knowledge of the world; "you may trust them to take care of themselves, when it comes
to the point. Everett's a shrewd fellow."

The father rubbed his hands, and was delighted to take this view of the case. He should make
something of his son and heir in time. Often as he had regretted that Richard was not the elder,
on whom it would rest to keep up the distinction and honor of the family, he began to see an
admirable fitness in things as they were. Everett was, after all, better suited for the career
that lay before him, in which he trusted he would not need that knowledge of mankind and judgment
on worldly matters that were indispensable to those who had to carve their own way in life.
"It is better as it is," thought the father, unconscious that he was echoing such an unsubstantial
philosophy as a poet's.

And so the first days of Everett's love were as cloudless and divinely radiant as a summer
dawn. But events were gathering, like storm-clouds, about the house of Gray. Disaster, most
unforeseen, was impending over this family. For Mr. Gray, though, as we have said, a practical
and matter-of-fact man, and having neither sympathy nor patience with "visionary schemes or
ideas," had yet, as practical men will do, indulged in divers speculations during his life,
in one of which he had at last been induced to embark to the utmost extent. Of course, it seemed
safe and reasonable enough, even to the banker's shrewd eyes; but, nevertheless, it proved
as delusive and destructive as any that ever led a less worldly man astray. The fair-seeming
bubble burst, and the rich man of one day found himself on the morrow virtually reduced to
beggary. All he had had it in his power to risk was gone, and liabilities remained to the extent
of twice as much. The crash came, the bank stopped payment, and the unhappy man was stricken
to the dust. He never lifted up his head again. The shrewd man of the world utterly succumbed
beneath this blow of fate; it killed him. Old Mr. Gray died of that supposed disease, a broken
heart,--leaving a legacy of ruin, or the alternative of disgrace, to his heir.

The reins of government thus fell into Everett's hands. "The poor Grays! it's all over with
them!" said the pitying world. And, indeed, the way in which the young man proceeded to arrange
his father's affairs savored no less of the Visionary than had every action of his life theretofore.
Captain Gray, who hastened home from his gay quarters in Dublin, on the disastrous news reaching
him, found his brother already deeply engaged with lawyers, bills, and deeds.

"You know, Richard, there is but one thing to be done," he said, in his usual simple, earnest
way; "we must cut off the entail, and sell the property to pay my father's debts. It is a hard
thing to do,--to part with the old place; but it would be worse, bitterer pain and crueler
shame, to hold it, with the money that, whatever the worldly code of morality may say, is not
ours. There must be no widows and orphans reduced to poverty through us. Thank God, there will
be enough produced by the sale of the estate to clear off every liability,--to the last shilling.
You feel with me in this matter?" he went on, confidently appealing to his brother; yet with
a certain inflection of anxiety in his voice. It would have wounded Everett cruelly, had he
been misunderstood or rebuffed in this. "You have your commission, and Uncle Everett's legacy,
and the reversion of my mother's fortune, which will not be touched. This act of justice, therefore,
can injure no one."

"Except yourself,--yourself, old fellow," said Richard, moved, in spite of his light nature.
He grasped his brother's hand. "It's a noble thing to do; but have you considered how it will
affect your future? You, with neither fortune nor profession,--how do you propose to live?
And your marriage,--the Beauchamps will never consent to Rosa becoming the wife of a--a"----

"Not a beggar, Richard," Everett said, smiling, "if that was the word you hesitated about;
no, I shall be no beggar. I have plans for my own future;--you shall know of them. Our marriage
will, of course, be delayed. I must work, to win a home and position for my wife." He paused,--looked
up bravely,--"It is no harder fate than falls to most men. And for Rosa,--true love, true woman
as she is, she helps me, she encourages me in all I do and purpose."

Captain Gray shrugged his shoulders. "Two mad young people!" he thought to himself. "They never
think of consequences, and it's of no use warning them, I suppose."

No. It would have been useless to "warn" or advise Everett against doing this thing, which
he held to be simply his duty. And it was the characteristic of our Visionary, that, when he
saw a Duty so placed before him, he knew no other course than straightly to pursue it, looking
neither to the right hand nor to the left, unprevented by obstacles, and fearless of consequences.

So in this case. His brother advised a temporizing course,--to mortgage the estate, for instance,
and pay a moiety of the debts. It was surely all that could be expected from a man who had
not actually incurred them. And then he might still be the nominal owner of Hazlewood,--he
might still marry Rosa.

"While, if you do as you propose," argued the Captain, "(and you know, of course, old fellow,
I fully appreciate your noble and honorable feeling in the matter,) you ruin your own hopes;
and I can't see that a fellow is called upon to do that, as a point of filial duty. What are
you to do? that's the thing. It isn't as though you had anything to fall back upon, by Jove!
It's a case of beggaring yourself"----

"Instead of beggaring other people," Everett said. "No, Richard,--I cannot see either the justice
or the wisdom of what you propose. I will not cast the burden on other shoulders. As my father's
representative, I must abide the penalty of his mistake,--and I only. I cannot rest while our
name is as the catchword of ruin and misery to thousands around us, less able to bear both,
perhaps, than I, who am young and strong,--able to work both with head and hands."

"But think of Rosa!" said his brother. "How do you get over that? Isn't her happiness worth
some consideration?"

"It has been my thought, night and day, ever since," Everett said, in a low voice. "It has
come between me and what I felt to be the Right, more than once. You don't know what that thought
has been, or you would not challenge it against me now."

"Well, well,--I only want you to look on all sides of what you are about to do, and to count
the cost beforehand."

Everett smiled quietly. As if "the cost" were not already counted, felt, and suffered in that
deep heart of his! But he said nothing.

"In the next place, what do you propose to do?" pursued his brother. "Will you enter a profession?
Can't say you're much adapted for a lawyer; and perhaps you're too tender-hearted for a doctor,
either. But I remember, as a boy, you always said you should like to be a clergyman. And, by
Jove! when one comes to think of it, you've a good deal of the cut of the village priest about
you. What do you say to that?"

"Nothing. I have other plans." And Everett proceeded briefly to tell him these. He had heard
from Charles Barclay, now high in the confidence of one of the leading mercantile firms of
Montreal; and through him, he had obtained the offer of an appointment in the same house.

Richard Gray listened to all this, with ill-concealed amusement twitching the corners of his
mouth. He thought the idea of his brother's turning man-of-business one of the "richest" he
had ever heard.

"With your hard head and shrewd notions, I should say you were likely to make a sensation in
the mercantile world," he observed. "It's a hopeful scheme, altogether. Oh, hang it!" proceeding
from sarcasm to remonstrance, "that'll never do, Everett! You'll be getting into some precious
scrape or other. You're not the fellow for a merchant's office, trust me. Now something in
the way of a government appointment is much more like it. A pleasant, poetical sort of sinecure,--there
are lots of them to be had. You just trundle down for an hour or two every day, write letters,
or poems, or whatever you like, with the official stationery, and receive your salary quarterly.
You can't do any mischief in a place like that. Now that's the sort of thing for you,--if one
could get hold of some of those fellows in power. Why!" brightening with the sudden dash of
an idea, "there are the Beauchamps themselves! They've a legion of influential relatives. Couldn't
they get you into a snug berth? Oh, the Devil!"--for Everett's look was not to be mistaken,--"if
you bring your high-flown ideas of dignity and independence into this plain, practical question
of subsistence, it's all up with you. Do you mean to tell me that you seriously think of this
Canada scheme?"

Everett assented.

"Have you informed Lady Beauchamp of your intention of becoming a merchant's clerk? I should
like to see her face when you tell her; she's such a shrewd old soul; and when a woman does
take to the sharp and worldly style of thing, it's the very deuse! Expect no indulgence in
that quarter."

"I don't ask it. Rosa, of course, cannot become my wife till I am able to give her a worthy
home. Her mother will not wish to cancel our engagement in the mean time."

"The deuse she won't! Trust her!" the consolatory brother rejoined. "Why, it will be her first
natural step. The idea of her daughter betrothed to a merchant's clerk is preposterous on the
face of it. You yourself must see that."

"No, I don't," Everett said, smiling.

"Oh, I suppose you intend to make a large fortune in a twelvemonth, and then return and marry?"

"No,--but in ten years,--less than that, God helping me,--if I live, I will return and marry Rosa."

"You don't say so? And poor little Rosa is to wait patiently for you all that time! By Jove!
a modest expectation of yours! It's a likely notion that Miss Beauchamp will remain unmarried
for ten years, because you choose to go to Canada."

"She will never marry, if she does not marry me," Everett said, with simple gravity. "It is
not alone the outward sacrament of marriage that sanctifies a union. The diviner and more vital
consecration that binds us together, it is too late, now, to seek to undo."

"Oh, hang it! It's of no use talking poetry to me. I don't understand that sort of thing,"
Captain Gray frankly said. "I'll tell you what,--it'll never do to take those transcendental
ideas with you into the world. All very well to poetize and maunder about in quiet Hazlewood;
but, by Jove! you'll find it won't do in practical life. Take my word for it, if you go to
Canada, long before the ten years are out, Rosa Beauchamp will be wooed and won over again.
'Tisn't in nature that it should be otherwise. In books, very likely, those sort of things
happen often enough,--but not in real life, my dear fellow, I assure you. When you return,
it will be to find her a thriving matron, doing the honors of one of the neighboring mansions.
Make up your mind to that. Foresee your future, before you decide."

Everett smiled, sadly, but trustfully. His brother's arguments neither persuaded nor disturbed
him. He stood very quiet and thoughtful. Visionary-like, he saw pictures of the future, indeed,--but
very different from the one just drawn. He was not afraid.

And Captain Gray left him unconvinced and unmoved. It was not probable the two brothers would
see this matter in the same light. They stood on different levels. They must be content to differ.

The next conference on the subject was between Everett and Lady Beauchamp; and the mother of
Rosa was, it must be admitted, a rather formidable person to encounter in such wise. She was
a busy, clever, worldly woman,--kind-hearted, too, and with both a strong will and strong affections.
She was one of those people in whom even an astute observer might often be deceived, by failing
to give her credit for certain good qualities which are commonly coexistent with worldliness,--especially
in a woman. There was a spice of something better latent amid her shrewdness and hard-headed
sagacity; the echo of more generous aspirations lingered through all the noise of this earth's
Babel in her heart. And so, when she heard of Everett's resolve to pay his father's debts by
parting with the property, her better and higher nature warmed to the young man; and though
she protested against his Quixotism, and frowned, and talked of prudence, and so forth, her
busy brain was, in fact, all the while setting itself to work for his benefit. She was, in
a way, fond of the young man. No woman is quite insensible to that chivalrous deference which
a Visionary like Everett always manifests to womanhood, collective and individual. And though
she certainly held him to be rash, foolish, unfit to deal with the world, "poetical," (a capital
crime in her eyes,) and dreamy, she yet liked him, and was glad to discover a plan whereby
the objections to his marriage with her daughter, under the present adverse circumstances,
might be smoothed away.

She was sitting at her big desk, strewn with accounts, in the sober-looking library where she
always spent her mornings, and she rose to receive her prospective son-in-law, with an aspect
serious and business-like, yet not stern.

"Well, my dear Everett, what is all this that I hear about you? A very, very sad affair, of
course; but you must come and tell me how you intend to act. Yes, yes,--I've heard something
about it; but I don't quite understand the state of the case. I want to have a talk with you."

And she leaned her comely face upon her plump, white hand, while gravely listening to Everett's
brief statement of what he had already done, and what were his plans for the future.

"You will sell Hazlewood, pay your father's debts, and begin life on your own account, by going
to Canada and becoming a merchant's clerk!" She then recapitulated his plans in a sharp, pitiless
tone. "Very well! and we have only to bid you good-bye and wish you success. Is it so? For
it appears to me that my daughter is left entirely out of your calculations, and very properly
so. You cannot, as a merchant's clerk on a hundred a year, marry Rosa Beauchamp, I presume."

"No," Everett said, steadily, and holding her, as it were, with his earnest eyes, "I cannot
have Rosa for my wife till I am able to give her a home worthy of her; but you will not refuse
to sanction our engagement during the years in which I shall work for that home?"

Lady Beauchamp tapped the table with her fingers in an ominous manner.

"Long engagements are most unsatisfactory, silly, not to say dangerous things. They never end
well. No man ought to wish so to bind a young girl, unless he has a reasonable chance of soon
being in a position to marry her. Now I ask you, have you such a chance? If you go to Canada,
it may be years before you return. Just look at the thing in a common-sense light, and tell
me, can you expect my daughter to wait an indefinite time, while you go to seek and make your
fortune?"

She looked at him with an air of bland candor, while thus appealing to his "common sense."
Everett's aspect remained unchanged, however, in its calm steadfastness.

"I would not bind her," he said, "unless she herself felt it would be a comfort and a help,
in some sort, during the weary years of separation, so to be bound. And that she does feel
it, you know, Lady Beauchamp."

"My dear Sir, you are not talking reasonably," she rejoined, impatiently. "A young girl like
Rosa, in love for the first time, of course wishes to be bound, as you say, to the object of
her first love. But it would be doing her a cruel injustice to take her at her word. Surely
you feel that? It is very true, she might not forget you for six months, or more, perhaps.
But, in the course of time, as she enters on life and sees more of the world and of people,
it is simply impossible that she should remain constant to a dreamy attachment to some one
thousands of miles away. She would inevitably wish to form other ties; and then the engagement
that she desires to-day would be the blight and burden of her life. No. I say it is a cruel
injustice to let young people decide for themselves on such a point. Half the misery in the
world springs from these mistakes. Think over the matter coolly, and you will see it as I do."

"It is you who do Rosa injustice," Everett answered, and paused. "Were it to be as you wish,"
he added, "and we to separate utterly, with no outwardly acknowledged tie to link us, no letters
to pass between us, no word or sign from one to the other during all the coming years,--suppose
it so,--you would shadow our lives with much unnecessary misery; but you are mistaken, if you
think you would really part us. You do not understand."

"Nonsense! You talk like a young man in love. You must be reasonable."

Lady Beauchamp, by this time, had worked herself into the usual warmth with which she argued
all questions, great and small, and forgot that her original intention in speaking to Everett
had only been to set before him the disadvantages of his plans, in order that her own might
come to the rescue with still greater brilliancy and effect.

"You must be reasonable," she repeated. "You don't suppose I have not my child's happiness
at heart in all I plan and purpose? Trust me, I have had more experience of life than either
of you, and it is for me to interpose between you and the dangers you would blindly rush upon.
Some day you will both thank me for having done so, hard and cruel as you may think me now."

"No, I do not think you either hard or cruel. You are mistaken, simply. I believe you desire
our happiness. I do not reproach or blame you, Lady Beauchamp," Everett said, sadly.

"Come, come," she cried, touched by his look and manner to an immediate unfolding of her scheme,
"let us look at things again. Perhaps we shall not find them so hopeless as they look. If I
am prudent, Everett, I am not mercenary. I only want to see Rosa happy. I don't care whether
it is on hundreds a year, or thousands. And the fact is, I have not condemned your plans without
having a more satisfactory one to offer to your choice. Listen to me."

And she proceeded, with a cleared brow, and the complacency of one who feels she is performing
the part of a good genius, setting everything to rights, and making everybody comfortable,
to unfold the plan she had devised, by which Everett's future was to be secured, and his marriage
with Rosa looked to as something better than a misty uncertainty at the end of a vista of years.

Everett must go into the Church. That was, in fact, the profession most suited to him, and
which most naturally offered itself for his acceptance. His education, his tastes, his habits,
all suited him for such a career. By a happy coincidence, too, it was one in which Lady Beauchamp
could most importantly assist him through her connections. Her eldest son, the young baronet,
had preferment in his own gift, which was to say, in hers; and not only this, but her sister's
husband, the uncle of Rosa, was a bishop, and one over whom she, Lady Beauchamp, had some influence.
Once in orders, Everett's prosperity was assured. The present incumbent of Hollingsley was
aged; by the time Everett was eligible, he might, in all probability, be inducted into that
living, and Rosa might then become his wife. Five hundred a year, beside Miss Beauchamp's dowry,
with such shining prospects of preferment to look forward to, was not an unwise commencement;
for Rosa was no mere fine lady, the proud mother said,--she was sensible and prudent; she would
adapt herself to circumstances. And though, of course, it was not such an establishment as
she well might expect for her daughter, still, since the young people loved one another, and
thought they could be happy under these reduced circumstances, she would not be too exacting.
And Lady Beauchamp at last paused, and looked in Everett's face for some manifestation of his joy.

Well,--of his gratitude there could be no question. The tears stood in his earnest eyes, as
he took Lady Beauchamp's hand and thanked her,--thanked her again and again.

"There, there, you foolish boy! I don't want thanks," cried she, coloring with pleasure though,
as she spoke. "My only wish is to see you two children happy. I am fond of you, Everett; I
shall like to see you my son," she said. "I have tried to smooth the way for you, as far as
I can, over the many difficulties that obstruct it; and I fancy I have succeeded. What do you
say to my plan? When can you be ordained?"

Everett sighed, as he released her hand, and looked at her face, now flushed with generous,
kindly warmth. Well he knew the bitter change that would come over that face,--the passion
of disappointment and displeasure which would follow his answer to that question.

He could never enter the Church. Sorrowfully, but firmly, he said it,--with that calm, steady
voice and look, of which all who knew him knew the significance. He could not take orders.

Lady Beauchamp, at first utterly overwhelmed and dumfounded, stood staring at him in blank
silence. Then she icily uttered a few words. His reasons,--might she ask?

They were many, Everett said. Even if no other hindrance existed, in his own mind and opinions,
his reverence for so sacred an office would not permit him to embrace it as a mere matter of
worldly advantage to himself.

"Grant me patience, young man! Do you mean to tell me you would decline this career because
it promises to put an end to your difficulties? Are you quite a fool?" the lady burst out,
astonishment and anger quite startling her from all control.

"Bear with what may at first seem to you only folly," Everett answered her, gently. "I don't
think your calmer judgment can call it so. Would you have me take upon myself obligations that
I feel to be most solemn and most vital, feeling myself unfitted, nay, unable, rightly to fulfil
them? Would you have me commit the treachery to God and man of swearing that I felt called
to that special service, when my heart protested against my profession?"

"Romantic nonsense! A mere matter of modest scruples! You underrate yourself, Everett. You
are the very man for a clergyman, trust me."

But Everett went on to explain, that it was no question of under-estimation of himself.

"You do not know, perhaps," he proceeded, while Lady Beauchamp, sorely tried, tapped her fingers
on the table, and her foot upon the floor,--"you do not know, that, when I was a boy, and until
two or three years ago, my desire and ambition were to be a minister of the Church of England."

"Well, Sir,--what has made you so much better, or so much worse, since then, as to alter your
opinion of the calling?"

"The reasons which made me abandon the idea three years since, and which render it impossible
for me to consider it now, have nothing to do with my mental and moral worthiness or unworthiness.
The fact is simply, I cannot become a minister of a Church with many of whose doctrines I cannot
agree, and to which, indeed, I can no longer say I belong. In your sense of the word, I am
far from being a Churchman."

"Do you mean to say you have become a Dissenter?" cried Lady Beauchamp; and, as if arrived
at the climax of endurance, she stood transfixed, regarding the young man with a species of
sublime horror.

"Again, not in your sense of the term," Everett said, smiling; "for I have joined no sect,
attached myself to no recognized body of believers."

"You belong to nothing, then? You believe in nothing, I suppose?" she said, with the instinctive
logic of her class. "Oh, Everett!" real distress for the moment overpowering her indignation,
"it is those visionary notions of yours that have brought you to this. It was to be expected.
You poets and dreamers go on refining your ideas, forsooth, till even the religion of the ordinary
world isn't good enough for you."

Everett waited patiently till this first gust had passed by. Then, with that steady, calm lucidity
which, strange to say, was characteristic of this Visionary's mind and intellect, he explained,
so far as he could, his views and his reasons. It could not be expected that his listener should
comprehend or enter into what he said. At first, indeed, she appeared to derive some small
consolation from the fact that at least Everett had not "turned Dissenter." She hated Methodists,
she declared,--intending thus to include with sweeping liberality all denominations in the
ban of her disapproval. She would have deemed it an unpardonable crime, had the young man deserted
the Church of his fathers in order to join the Congregation, some ranting conventicle. But
if her respectability was shocked at the idea of his becoming a Methodist, her better feelings
were outraged when she found, as she said, that he "belonged to nothing." She viewed with dislike
and distrust all forms of religion that differed from her own; but she could not believe in
the possibility of a religion that had no external form at all. She was dismayed and perplexed,
poor lady! and even paused midway in her wrathful remonstrance to the misguided young man,
to lament anew over his fatal errors. She could not understand, she said, truly enough, what
in the world he meant. His notions were perfectly extraordinary and incomprehensible. She was
deeply, deeply shocked, and grieved for him, and for every one connected with him.

In fact, the very earnestness and sincerity in their own opinions of a certain calibre of minds
make them incapable of understanding such a state of things. That a man should believe differently
from all they have been taught to believe appears to them as simply preposterous as that he
should breathe differently. And so it is that only the highest order of belief can afford to
be tolerant; and, as extremes meet, it requires a very perfect Faith to be able to sympathize
and bear patiently with Doubt.

There was no chance of Lady Beauchamp's "comprehending" Everett in this matter. There was something
almost pathetic in her mingled anger, perplexity, and disappointment. She could only look on
him as a headstrong young man, suicidally bent on his own ruin,--turning obstinately from every
offered aid, and putting the last climax of wretchedness to his isolated and fallen position
by "turning from the faith of his fathers," as she rather imaginatively described his secession
from Orthodoxy.

And, as may be concluded, the mother of Rosa was inexorable, as regarded the engagement between
the young people. It must at once be cancelled. She could not for one moment suffer the idea
of her daughter's remaining betrothed to the mere adventurer she considered Everett Gray had
now become. If, poor as he was, he had thought fit to embrace a profession worthy of a gentleman,
the case would have been different. But if his romantic notions led him to pursue such an out-of-the-way
course as he had laid out for himself, he must excuse her, if she forbade her child from sharing
it. Under present circumstances, his alliance could but be declined by the Beauchamp family,
she said, with her stateliest air. And the next minute, as Everett held her hand, and said
good-bye, she melted again from that frigid dignity, and, looking into the frank, manly, yet
gentle face of the young man, cried,--

"Are you quite decided, Everett? Will you take time to consider? Will you talk to Rosa about
it, first?"

"No, dear Lady Beauchamp. I know already what she would say. I have quite decided. Thank you
for all your purposed kindness. Believe that I am not ungrateful, even if I seem so."

"Oh, Everett,--Everett Gray! I am very sorry for you, and for your mother, and for all connected
with you. It is a most unhappy business. It gives me great pain thus to part with you," said
Lady Beauchamp, with real feeling.

And so the interview ended, and so ended the engagement.

Nothing else could have been expected, every one said who heard the state of the case, and
knew what Lady Beauchamp had wished and Everett had declined. There were no words to describe
how foolishly and weakly he had acted. "Everybody" quite gave him up now. With his romantic,
transcendental notions, what would become of him, when he had his own way to make in the world?

But Everett had consolation and help through it all; for Rosa, the woman he loved, his mother,
and his sister believed in him, and gloried in what other people called his want of common
sense. Ay, though the horrible wrench of parting was suffered by Rosa every minute of every
day, and the shadow of that dreadful, unnatural separation began to blacken her life even before
it actually fell upon her,--through it all, she never wavered. When he first told her that
he must go, that it was the one thing he held it wise and right to do, she shrunk back affrighted,
trembling at the coming blankness of a life without him. But after a while, seeing the misery
that came into his face reflected from hers, she rose bravely above the terrible woe, and then,
with her arms round him and her eyes looking steadfastly into his, she said, "I love you better
than the life you are to me. So I can bear that you should go."

And he said, "There can be no real severance between those who love as we do. God, in His mercy
and tenderness, will help us to feel that truth, every hour and every day."

For they believed thus,--these two young Visionaries,--and lived upon that belief, perhaps,
when the time of parting came. And it may be that the thought of each was very constantly,
very intimately present to the other, during the many years that followed. It may be that this
species of mental atmosphere, so surrounding and commingling with all other things more visibly
and palpably about them, did cause these dreamers to be happier in their love than many externally
united ones, whose lot appears to us most fair and smooth and blissful. Time and distance,
leagues of ocean and years of suspense, are not the most terrible things that can come between
two people who love one another.

       *       *       *       *       *

And so Everett Gray, his mother, and his sister, went to Canada. A year after, Agnes was married
to Charles Barclay, then a thriving merchant in Montreal. When the people at home heard of
this, they very wisely acknowledged "how much good there had been in that young man, in spite
of his rashness and folly in early days. No fear about such a man's getting on in life, when
once he gave his mind to it," and so forth.

Meanwhile, our Visionary----But what need is there to trace him, step by step, in the new life
he doubtless found fully as arduous as he had anticipated? That it was a very struggling, difficult,
and uncongenial life to him can be well understood. These reminiscences of Everett Gray relate
to a long past time. We can look on his life now as almost complete and finished, and regard
his past as those in the valley look up to the hill that has nothing between it and heaven.

Many years he remained in Canada, working hard. Tidings occasionally reached England of his
progress. Rosa, perhaps, heard such at rare intervals,--though somewhat distorted, it may be,
from their original tenor, before they reached her. But it appeared certain that he was "getting
on." In defiance and utter contradiction of all the sapient predictions there anent, it seemed
that this dreamy, poetizing Everett Gray was absolutely successful in his new vocation of man-of-business.

The news that he had become a partner in the firm he had entered as a clerk was communicated
in a letter from himself to Lady Beauchamp. In it he, for the first time since his departure,
spoke of Rosa; but he spoke of her as if they had parted but yesterday; and, in asking her
mother's sanction to their betrothal now, urged, as from them both, their claim to have that
boon granted at last.

Lady Beauchamp hastily questioned her daughter.

"You must have been corresponding with the young man all this time?" she said.

But Rosa's denial was not to be mistaken.

"He has heard of you, then, through some one," the practical lady went on; "or, for anything
he knows, you may be married, or going to be married, instead of waiting for him, as he seems
to take it for granted you have been all this time."

"He was right, mother," Rosa only said.

"Right, you foolish girl? You haven't half the spirit I had at your age. I would have scorned
that it should have been said of me that I 'waited' for any man."

"But if you loved him?"

"Well, if he loved you, he should have taken more care than to leave you on such a Quixotic
search for independence as his."

"He thought it right to go, and he trusted me; we had faith in one another," Rosa said; and
she wound her arms round her mother, and looked into her face with eyes lustrous with happy
tears. For, from that lady's tone and manner, despite her harsh words, she knew that the opposition
was withdrawn, and that Everett's petition was granted.

They were married. It is years ago, now, since their wedding-bells rung out from the church-tower
of Hazlewood, blending with the sweet spring-air and sunshine of a joyous May-day. The first
few years of their married life were spent in Canada. Then they returned to England, and Everett
Gray put the climax to the astonishment of all who knew him by purchasing back a great part
of Hazlewood with the fruits of his commercial labors in the other country.

At Hazlewood they settled, therefore. And there, when he grew to be an old man, Everett Gray
lived, at last, the peaceful, happy life most natural and most dear to him. No one would venture
to call the successful merchant a Visionary; and even his brother owns that "the old fellow
has got more brains, after all, by Jove! than he ever gave him credit for." Yet, as the same
critic, and others of his calibre, often say of him, "He has some remarkably queer notions.
There's no making him out,--he is so different from other people."

