Fig. 46 is a perspective view. It runs east and west, and is designed to correspond in a measure
with another house on the place, though the roof of this is much flatter. There are no side
lights. Ventilation is effected by openings along the ridge, and by the sashes over the doors,
which are hung for the purpose. The roof is continuous, and both ends of the house are glazed.

Fig. 47 is the ground plan. The sills of the front or glass part rest on brick piers, to allow
the roots of the vines to run out, the border being both in and outside the house. A wooden
partition on the north side of the walk divides the house into two unequal parts, the north
being used for a potting shed, tool house, etc. This apartment is furnished with tables, etc.,
and is well lighted by windows at the side and ends. A water tank is conveniently placed in
the middle. In the northwest corner is the boiler pit. This is sufficiently large to hold coal,
and is furnished with a shoot for throwing it down. The grapery is to be heated by four rows
of pipes, the object being to force early.

Fig. 48 is a section, showing the arrangement of pipes, walk, etc.

DESIGN No. 18.

Plant houses having a specific object in view, it is not possible to indulge in a great variety
of forms without sacrificing their utility, or creating a great deal of room that can not be
applied to any useful purpose whatever. In this respect they differ in a marked manner from
dwelling-houses, which allow of great latitude in design and construction. That some degree
of picturesqueness, however, is consistent with utility, we think will be apparent on examining
the design herewith presented. The plan was made for H. B. Hurlbut, Esq., of Cleveland, Ohio.
It is intended for a green-house and hot-house combined. It is located near the dwelling and
in sight of the public highway. It is in the form of a cross.

Fig. 49 is a perspective view, as seen from the street. The porch or front entrance is ornamented,
but with an entire absence of heavy wood work. The finials and crest along the ridge are light,
and harmonize with the general design. The valleys and angles break up the structure in a very
pleasing and effective manner, and the elevation, as a whole, is one that will arrest attention.

Fig. 50 is the ground plan. Directly opposite the front entrance is a fountain. There are two
centre tables for plants, also others around the sides of the house, not shown in the plan.
This apartment will be used principally for plants in bloom. The other apartment which will
be kept at a higher temperature, for the purpose of forcing plants into flower. At the end,
on the right-hand side, is the boiler-pit, which is partitioned off. It is large enough to
hold two or three tons of coal. There is a coal-shoot on the outside. On the left is the potting-room.
This will be fitted up with a writing desk, and shelves and drawers for books, seeds, etc.
Every other side-sash is hung at the bottom for ventilation. There are also ventilators on
the top, and over the doors. Fig. 51 is a sectional view of the house.

There is scarcely any part of this structure that does not, at some time during the day, receive
a portion of the sun's rays; some more, some less. A little judgment, therefore, on the part
of the gardener who has charge of the place, will enable him to grow well a large variety of
plants.

DESIGN No. 19.

This design is of a plant-house of larger dimensions than any we have heretofore given. Its
form was determined by its location. Fig. 52 is a perspective.

The principal building runs east and west. This is divided by a brick wall into two unequal
parts, that facing the south being the largest. On the north side we have first, at the west
end, a small Camellia house. It would be also adapted to Orchids, Caladiums, Begonias, Ferns,
and all plants requiring partial shade. Next we have a moderate sized bed-room for the man
who attends to the boilers, one of which is in the next room. These two rooms are covered with
boards bent to the curve of the roof and battened instead of glass. On the south of these three
rooms is a hot grapery, to be used as a "second" house. Next, on the east, is a house designated
"Forcing House" in the plan. (See Fig. 53.) It should be "Hot House," as this room is not adapted
to forcing purposes. It is intended for plants that require a high temperature to keep them
in good health. East of this is a room, or a "potting shed." Being covered with glass, it is
well adapted to growing Mushrooms, propagating plants, &c., all the room not being needed for
potting purposes. By the side of this room is another boiler room, and on the south another
Hot Grapery, to be used as a "first" house. Then, on the east is the Cold Grapery, of goodly
dimensions. Last of all we have a Green-house of large size south of the Hot-house. Thus, under
one roof, we have all that is needed on a large place. We do not wish to be understood as saying
that it is always best to put these houses in this particular shape; but where money is no
particular object, and architectural effect is sought for, this form gives an opportunity in
its broken outlines for considerable display.

DESIGN No. 20.

Green-houses and Graperies are usually erected as separate structures. While it is desirable
that they should be so on extensive places where much accommodation is required, in grounds
of moderate extent many advantages are gained by having the houses connected. Facility for
heating and management, protection of those houses requiring the most heat, by those kept cold
or at only moderate temperature, and the ease with which all departments may be visited by
the owner, are all obtained by such an arrangement. In the present instance the Green-house
occupies a position east and west, and is protected on its north and most exposed quarter by
the Grapery. The boiler located as shown on the plan, supplies heat to all the houses. The
Grapery, not being intended as a forcing or early house, has but one hot water pipe, which
will afford sufficient heat to enable the vines to be started two or three weeks earlier in
the spring, or if not desirable to anticipate their natural growth, will prevent them receiving
sudden checks from frosty nights, which sometimes happen at the latter end of April and beginning
of May, after the vines have broken their buds. We can prolong the season also, until about
Christmas, in favorable years. Several of the late ripening, and late keeping varieties of
the Grape, are intended to be grown. Lady Downes, Barbarossa, Frogmore St., Peters and others.
These by the addition of another pipe and proper care in management, could be kept on the vines
in fine condition until February, and perhaps March.

The sill or wall plate of the Grapery, is but two feet above the border; thus giving nearly
the whole length of cane for fruiting upon the rafter. Side lights are dispensed with bottom
ventilation being afforded by apertures through the brick wall, closed by shutters. The wall
is supported on stone lintels, resting on brick piers placed about five feet apart, extending
to the bottom of the border, allowing free access for the vine roots to the outside. Ventilation
at the top is effected by means of sashes, hung in the roof at the ridge, which are raised
and lowered by an iron shaft running the length of the building, with elbow attachments at
each ventilator. A cord and lever at one end, works the shaft, raising the whole of the ventilators
at one operation. This is by far the best method of ventilation, but more expensive than that
generally used. It is strong, effective, rarely requires repair, and the sashes are never in
danger of being blown open and broken by high winds. The floor level of the Green-house is
two feet below that of the Grapery, in order that there may be sufficient height at the sides,
to place plants on the tables, and bring them near the glass. General collections of plants
cannot well be grown in one house; for this reason, we have the house divided by a glass partition.
By an arrangement of valves in the hot water pipes, and independent ventilation, a different
temperature can be maintained in each. Plants requiring a considerable degree of heat will
find a congenial location in the central house, while those in bloom, and others to which a
cooler atmosphere is more suitable, will be placed at the circular end of the building.

Three rows of heating pipe run around the Green-houses, which will give ample heat in the coldest
weather. A propagating table is provided by enclosing a portion of the pipes in the central
house. Beneath the floor is a cistern of 3,000 gallons capacity, from which tanks holding 100
gallons each are supplied by pumps. The Green-houses are entered through a door and porch on
the south, not shown in the engraving, also through potting room and Grapery. The design of
these houses gives an opportunity for further addition if desired, by a wing on the south,
corresponding with the Grapery on the north. Such an extension would improve the architectural
appearance of the whole. An early Grapery might be thus located and be heated from the same
boiler. These houses, lately designed and erected by us for John L. Rogers, Esq., of Newburgh,
N. Y., form a picturesque and attractive feature in his well kept grounds, and will no doubt
be a source of much enjoyment to their owner.

ORCHARD HOUSES.

Glass-houses devoted exclusively to the cultivation of such fruits as are usually found in
our orchards and gardens, would seem to be hardly necessary erections in our climate, with
its bright and genial sunshine. But we must call to mind the almost total failure of the peach
crop for several years past, on account of the severity of the winter frost, in sections of
the country where this fruit was formerly cultivated with the greatest success, and ripened
in the fullest abundance and perfection. We cannot forget, also, that it is next to impossible
to prevent the attacks of the curculio upon our smooth-skinned fruits,--the Nectarine, Apricot
and Plum--and the vast amount of vigilance and care required to counteract the invasions of
the various other insect pests which visit us, and to obtain even a moderate crop, in many
localities, out of doors. And we must be willing to concede that the certain means of securing
even a limited supply of these delicious fruits, is worthy of our careful consideration.

Well managed Orchard houses will give us, without doubt or failure, the Peach, the Apricot,
the Nectarine, the Plum, the Fig, and many other fruits in great perfection. With the addition
of fire heat these may be forced, and the fruit obtained much in advance of its natural season.

In England, houses for the growth of these fruits, which will generally not ripen in the open
air of that climate, have been in successful use for a number of years. In these houses the
trees are planted in prepared borders, which gives the roots liberty to ramble at will. The
fruit thus produced is very beautiful in appearance, and if abundant ventilation is supplied,
at the proper season, it is of tolerable flavor. The great difficulty in this mode of culture,
seems to be in not being able to furnish adequate ventilation to the house at the period of
ripening, to enable the fruit to acquire its full flavor and perfection of delicacy and richness.
Another difficulty is the over vigorous growth of the trees, and the care required to restrain
them within proper bounds.

