In obedience to the command of Garrofat, Bright-Wits presented himself in the great council
hall of the palace at noon of the next day. His entrance was the signal for a demonstration
of joy from the guards who already looked on him as their future leader. The presence of the
Emirs of the eight provinces of the kingdom perplexed him, nor could he understand the meaning
of the double row of guards placed near the throne.

When Bright-Wits had made obeisance, Garrofat arose and ordered a slave to remove the rug which
lay upon the floor before the throne. This done, there was revealed a square, slightly sunk
into the marble, at one corner of which could be seen the head of a silver serpent set in the
stone; while at the opposite corner the tail of the serpent was visible. But for these two
pieces the square was blank. Doola now entered, followed by a slave who bore a number of pieces
of metal which proved to be the missing parts of the serpent's body. These were placed beside
the square.

Now when all these things had been done, Garrofat again addressed the prince, "Know, O Bright-Wits,
that this is to be your last task. To fail now means death. Not Allah, himself, could save
you. To win, however, means life, and the hand of Azalia, than whom the Houris in Paradise
are not more fair. Long I pondered the selection of this final task; and it is to your master,
Ablano, that I am indebted for my choice. He in fact suggested this very test. Know then, that
somewhere in that square at your feet is concealed a secret spring which opens a receptacle
containing the last instructions of the Great Onalba. The silver serpent is the key. You will
see that one of the pieces is marked with a star. Now when the whole is properly fitted together
it will set inside that square and the star will rest directly above the hidden spring. As
you have most at stake, it is for you to give to the world the last words of the Rajah. Is
your wit keen enough, and your courage high enough to essay and conquer for the last time?"

As Garrofat ceased speaking, Bright-Wits glanced quickly at Azalia, and the light he saw shining
in her eyes would have spurred him to tempt any fate at that moment. Trembling, but not from
fear, the prince gravely saluted Garrofat and accepted the task and all its conditions. Then,
in a voice that was calm and clear he asked, "Must I do this now?"

"Now. At once," hissed Garrofat. "Now, while thy guardian spirit is gone."

Then for the first time Bright-Wits noticed the absence of Ablano, the Brahman. Nor could he
recognize the tall stranger standing beside Azalia; his face muffled in a fold of his robe.
Then too, he vaguely wondered at the presence of the many dignitaries and officers of the kingdom,
and at the strange air of mystery which seemed to pervade the entire audience chamber.

Fear for an instant seized his heart; but a glance from Azalia reassured while it still further
mystified him. The savage command of Garrofat that he waste no more time brought him to his
senses; and dropping on his knees, he began his task. A breathless stillness reigned as the
prince adjusted and readjusted the pieces. Garrofat and the wily Doola watching, meanwhile,
with looks now filled with cunning, now with fear.

Time after time, Bright-Wits arranged the pieces of silver whose proper placing meant so much
to him. The minutes passed until he seemed to be spending hours on this last and fatal test.
Glancing up from time to time, he could see the tall stranger moving about the hall; now whispering
to this one, now to another of the Emirs. Garrofat and Doola following his movements with looks
of puzzled concern.

