"Only six. Then we must have polished off more than we thought."

"We can find out later how many. But the last six didn't get off without a scratch, I assure
you. They must have had a sentinel watching. We saw no one, but as we were hoping to surprise
the bordj these six men, who looked from a distance like Touaregs, rushed out, mounted horses
and camels and dashed away, striking westward."

"They dared not go north. I'd been signalling----"

"From the broken tower?"

"Yes. As you came, you must have sighted the men from Azzouz. But tell me the rest."

"There's little to tell, and I want your news more than you can want mine. The Arabs' animals
were fresh, and ours tired, for I'd given them no rest. The brutes had a good start of us and
made the best of it, but at first I thought we were gaining. We got within gunshot, and fired
after them. Two at least were hit. We came on traces of fresh blood afterward, but the birds
themselves were flown. In any case, it was to bring help I came, not to make captures. Do you
think she would like me to see her now?"

"Come with me and try, before the other rescue party arrives. I'm glad the surgeon's with you.
I'm worried about Caird, and we're all a bit dilapidated. How we're to get him and the ladies
away from this place, I don't know. Our animals are dead or dying."

"You will probably find that the enemy has been generous in spite of himself and left you some--all
that couldn't be taken away. Strange how those men looked like Touaregs! You are sure of what
they really were?"

"Sure. But since no one else knows, why should the secret leak out? Better for the ladies if
the Touareg disguise should hide the truth, as it was meant to do."

"Why not indeed? Since we weren't lucky enough to rid his wife--and the world of the marabout."

"Then we're agreed: unless something happens to change our minds, we were attacked by Touaregs."

Sabine smiled grimly. "Duprez bet," he answered, "that I should find they were not Arabs, but
Touaregs. He will enjoy saying 'I told you so.'"

        *        *        *        *        *        *        *

That night, and for many nights to come, there was wailing in the Zaouïa. The marabout had
gone out to meet his son, who had been away from school on a pilgrimage, and returning at dark,
to avoid the great heat of the day, had been bitten by a viper. Thus, at least, pronounced
the learned Arab physician. It was of the viper bite he died, so it was said, and no one outside
the Zaouïa knew of the great man's death until days afterwards, when he was already buried.
Even in the Zaouïa it was not known by many that he had gone away or returned from a journey,
or that he lay ill. In spite of this secrecy and mystery, however, there was no gossip, but
only wild wailing, of mourners who refused to be comforted. And if certain persons, to the
number of twenty or more, were missing from their places in the Zaouïa, nothing was said, after
Si Maïeddine had talked with the holy men of the mosque. If these missing ones were away, and
even if they should never come back, it was because they were needed to carry out the marabout's
wishes, at a vast distance. But now, the dearest wishes of Sidi Mohammed would never be fulfilled.
That poignant knowledge was a knife in every man's heart; for men of ripe age or wisdom in
the Zaouïa knew what these wishes were, and how some day they were to have come true through
blood and fire.

All were sad, though no tongue spoke of any other reason for sadness, except the inestimable
loss of the Saint. And sadder than the saddest was Si Maïeddine, who seemed to have lost his youth.

LII

It is a long cry from the bordj of Toudja among the dunes of the southern desert, to Algiers,
yet Nevill begged that he might be taken home. "You know why," he said to Stephen, and his
eyes explained, if Stephen needed explanations. Nevill thought there might be some chance of
seeing Josette in Algiers, if he were dying. But the army surgeon from Oued Tolga pronounced
it unsafe to take him so far.

Yet away from Toudja he must go, since it was impossible to care for him properly there, and
the bullet which had wounded him was still in his side.

Fortunately the enemy had left plenty of camels. They had untethered all, hoping that the animals
might wander away, too far to be caught by the Europeans, but more than were needed remained
in the neighbourhood of Toudja, and Rostafel took possession of half a dozen good meharis,
which would help recoup him for his losses in the bordj. Not one animal had any mark upon it
which could identify the attackers, and saddles and accoutrements were of Touareg make. The
dead men, too, were impossible to identify, and it was not likely that much trouble would be
taken in prosecuting inquiries. Among those whose duty it is to govern Algeria, there is a
proverb which, for various good reasons, has come to be much esteemed: "Let sleeping dogs lie."

Not a man of the five who defended the bordj but had at least one wound to show for his night's
work. Always, however, it is those who attack, in a short siege, who suffer most; and the Europeans
were not proud of the many corpses they had to their credit. There was some patching for the
surgeon to do for all, but Nevill's was the only serious case. The French doctor, De Vigne,
did not try to hide the truth from the wounded man's friend; there was danger. The best thing
would have been to get Nevill to Algiers, but since that was impossible, he must travel in
a bassour, by easy stages, to Touggourt. Instead of two days' journey they must make it three,
or more if necessary, and he--De Vigne--would go with them to put his patient into the hands
of the army surgeon at Touggourt.

They had only the one bassour; that in which Saidee and Victoria had come to Toudja from Oued
Tolga, but Nevill was delirious more often than not, and had no idea that a sacrifice was being
made for him. Blankets, and two of the mattresses least damaged by fire in the barricade, were
fastened on to camels for the ladies, after the fashion in use for Bedouin women of the poorest
class, or Ouled Naïls who have not yet made their fortune as dancers; and so the journey began
again.

There was never a time during the three days it lasted, for Stephen to confess to Victoria.
Possibly she did not wish him to take advantage of a situation created as if by accident at
Toudja. Or perhaps she thought, now that the common danger which had drawn them together, was
over, it would be best to wait until anxiety for Nevill had passed, before talking of their
own affairs.

At Azzouz, where they passed a night full of suffering for Nevill, they had news of the marabout's
death. It came by telegraph to the operator, just before the party was ready to start on; yet
Saidee was sure that Sabine had caused it to be sent just at that time. He had been obliged
to march back with his men--the penalty of commanding the force for which he had asked; but
a letter would surely come to Touggourt, and Saidee could imagine all that it would say. She
had no regrets for Ben Halim, and said frankly to Victoria that it was difficult not to be
indecently glad of her freedom. At last she had waked up from a black dream of horror, and
now that it was over, it hardly seemed real. "I shall forget," she said. "I shall put my whole
soul to forgetting everything that's happened to me in the last ten years, and every one I've
known in the south--except one. But to have met him and to have him love me, I'd live it all
over again--all."

She kept Victoria with her continually, and in the physical weakness and nervous excitement
which followed the strain she had gone through, she seemed to have forgotten her interest in
Victoria's affairs. She did not know that her sister and Stephen had talked of love, for at
Toudja after the fight began she had thought of nothing but the danger they shared.

Altogether, everything combined to delay explanations between Stephen and Victoria. He tried
to regret this, yet could not be as sorry as he was repentant. It was not quite heaven, but
it was almost paradise to have her near him, though they had a chance for only a few words
occasionally, within earshot of Saidee, or De Vigne, or the twins, who watched over Nevill
like two well-trained nurses. She loved him, since a word from her meant more than vows from
other women. Nothing had happened yet to disturb her love, so these few days belonged to Stephen.
He could not feel that he had stolen them. At Touggourt he would find a time and place to speak,
and then it would be over forever. But one joy he had, which never could have come to him,
if it had not been for the peril at Toudja. They knew each other's hearts. Nothing could change
that. One day, no doubt, she would learn to care for some other man, but perhaps never quite
in the same way she had cared for him, because Stephen was sure that this was her first love.
And though she might be happy in another love--he tried to hope it, but did not succeed sincerely--he
would always have it to remember, until the day of his death, that once she had loved him.

As far out from Touggourt as Temacin, Lady MacGregor came to meet them, in a ramshackle carriage,
filled with rugs and pillows in case Nevill wished to change. But he was not in a state to
wish for anything, and De Vigne decided for him. He was to go on in the bassour, to the villa
which had been let to Lady MacGregor by an officer of the garrison. It was there the little
Mohammed was to have been kept and guarded by the Highlanders, if the great scheme had not
been suddenly changed in some of its details. Now, the child had inherited his father's high
place. Already the news had reached the marabout of Temacin, and flashed on to Touggourt. But
no one suspected that the viper which had bitten the Saint had taken the form of a French bullet.
Perhaps, had all been known to the Government, it would have seemed poetical justice that the
arch plotter had met his death thus. But his plots had died with him; and if Islam mourned
because the Moul Saa they hoped for had been snatched from them, they mourned in secret. For
above other sects and nations, Islam knows how to be silent.

When they were settled in the villa near the oasis (Saidee and Victoria too, for they needed
no urging to wait till it was known whether Nevill Caird would live or die) Lady MacGregor
said with her usual briskness to Stephen: "Of course I've telegraphed to that creature."

Stephen looked at her blankly.

"That hard-hearted little beast, Josette Soubise," the fairy aunt explained.

Stephen could hardly help laughing, though he had seldom felt less merry. But that the tiny
Lady MacGregor should refer to tall Josette, who was nearly twice her height, as a "little
beast," struck him as somewhat funny. Besides, her toy-terrier snappishness was comic.

"I've nothing against the girl," Lady MacGregor felt it right to go on, "except that she's
an idiot to bite off her nose to spite her own face--and Nevill's too. I don't approve of her
at all as a wife for him, you must understand. Nevill could marry a princess, and she's nothing
but a little school-teacher with a dimple or two, whose mother and father were less than nobody.
Still, as Nevill wants her, she might have the grace to show appreciation of the honour, by
not spoiling his life. He's never been the same since he went and fell in love with her, and
she refused him."

"You've telegraphed to Tlemcen that Nevill is ill?" Stephen ventured.

"I've telegraphed to the creature that she'd better come here at once, if she wants to see
him alive," replied Lady MacGregor. "I suppose she loves him in her French-Algerian way, and
she must have saved up enough money for the fare. Anyhow, if Nevill doesn't live, I happen
to know he's left her nearly everything, except what the poor boy imagines I ought to have.
That's pouring coals of fire on her head!"

"Don't think of his not living!" exclaimed Stephen.

"Honestly I believe he won't live unless that idiot of a girl comes and purrs and promises
to marry him, deathbed or no deathbed."

Again Stephen smiled faintly. "You're a matchmaker, Lady MacGregor," he said. "You are one
of the most subtle persons I ever saw."

The old lady took this as a compliment. "I haven't lived among Arabs, goodness knows how many
years, for nothing," she retorted. "I telegraphed for her about five minutes after you wired
from Azzouz. In fact, my telegram went back by the boy who brought yours."

"She may be here day after to-morrow, if she started at once," Stephen reflected aloud.

"She did, and she will," said Lady MacGregor, drily.

"You've heard?"

"The day I wired."

"You have quite a nice way of breaking things to people, you dear little ladyship," said Stephen.
And for some reason which he could not in the least understand, this speech caused Nevill's
aunt to break into tears.

That evening, the two surgeons extracted the bullet from Nevill's side. Afterwards, he was
extremely weak, and took as little interest as possible in things, until Stephen was allowed
to speak to him for a moment.

Most men, if told that they had just sixty seconds to spend at the bedside of a dear friend,
would have been at a loss what to say in a space of time so small yet valuable. But Stephen
knew what he wished to say, and said it, as soon as Nevill let him speak; but Nevill began first.

"Maybe--going to--deserve name of Wings," he muttered. "Shouldn't wonder. Don't care much."

"Is there any one thing in this world you want above everything else?" asked Stephen.

"Yes. Sight of--Josette. One thing I--can't have."

"Yes, you can," said Stephen quietly. "She's coming. She started the minute she heard you were
ill, and she'll be in Touggourt day after to-morrow."

"You're not--pulling my leg?"

"To do that would be very injurious. But I thought good news would be better than medicine."

"Thank you, Legs. You're a great doctor," was all that Nevill answered. But his temperature
began to go down within the hour.

"He'll get the girl, of course," remarked Lady MacGregor, when Stephen told her. "That is,
if he lives."

"He will live, with this hope to buoy him up," said Stephen. "And she can't hold out against
him for a minute when she sees him as he is. Indeed, I rather fancy she's been in a mood to
change her mind this last month."

"Why this last month?"

"Oh, I think she misunderstood Nevill's interest in Miss Ray, and that helped her to understand
herself. When she finds out that it's for her he still cares, not some one else, she'll do
anything he asks." Afterwards it proved that he was right.

The day after the arrival at Touggourt, the house in its garden near the oasis was very quiet.
The Arab servants, whom Lady MacGregor had taken with the place, moved silently, and for Nevill's
sake voices were lowered. There was a brooding stillness of summer heat over the one little
patch of flowery peace and perfumed shade in the midst of the fierce golden desert. Yet to
the five members of the oddly assembled family it was as if the atmosphere tingled with electricity.
There was a curious, even oppressive sense of suspense, of waiting for something to happen.

They did not speak of this feeling, yet they could see it in each other's eyes, if they dare
to look.

It was with them as with people who wait to hear a clock begin striking an hour which will
bring news of some great change in their lives, for good or evil.

