It is not to be expected that such obvious shelter retreats as the mounds of spectabilis should
fail to attract the attention of other animals. We have found a small gecko (Coleonyx variegatus),
scorpions of two or three undetermined species, and certain insects (of the Order Orthoptera)
to be very common inhabitants of the dens. With the exception of the parasitic insects the
most common are wingless locustids (Ceuthophilus spp.) and the peculiar wingless females of
a species of cockroach (Arenivaga erratica). These two are seldom absent when a burrow is excavated,
the female cockroaches being abundant, although the winged males have never been taken in the
burrows.

Cary's observations at Monahans, Tex., and those of others at numerous localities, combined
with our own, show that at various times the dens furnish protection and shelter for various
species of cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus), ground squirrels (Citellus and Ammospermophilus),
wood rats (Neotoma), grasshopper mice (Onychomys), rattlesnakes (Crotalus), and most of the
common lizards. Of these the ground squirrels Citellus tereticaudus and Ammospermophilus harrisii
are most often noted on the Range Reserve using the dens as a retreat, the Ammospermophilus
seldom being observed to enter any other kind of burrow. It should be added that the total
observations include dens which have been deserted by their rightful owners.

NATURAL CHECKS.

The enemies of the kangaroo rat are not determined in detail, or as to relative importance,
but the badger (Taxidea taxus berlandieri) and the kit fox, or swift (Vulpes macrotis neomexicana),
may well be foremost. Dens which have been deeply excavated by badgers are frequently seen,
and sometimes two or three badger tunnels penetrate one burrow system. Dens thus despoiled
are probably soon reoccupied even if the original owner is captured, and in the course of a
few months the reworking of the abode obliterates the signs of destruction.

Droppings of the kit fox show an abundance of bones of small mammals of kangaroo rat size,
among them those of spectabilis.

Bobcats (Lynx baileyi) and coyotes (Canis mearnsi) probably are a prejudicial factor. Skunks
may sometimes be able to surprise the kangaroo rats, but probably not often. The western horned
owl (Bubo virginianus pallescens), the barn owl (Tyto alba pratincola), and perhaps others
may well be among the most feared enemies, but no special investigation of owl pellets on the
reserve has been possible. In 592 barn-owl pellets from California were found remains of 230
kangaroo rats, only one other rodent being represented by a larger number (McAtee, 1921, 258).

Much more information on enemies is needed. The relatively low rate of reproduction (see p.
18) indicates comparative freedom from inimical factors.

PARASITES.

Dipodomys s. spectabilis is regularly infested with a species of flea, Ctenophthalmus sp. Seldom
or never is a specimen taken in reasonably fresh condition without some of these parasites
present on its body, though of course they desert the body of the host after it becomes cold,
and hence dead specimens left too long may be free from them. The den conditions are ideal
for the breeding of this parasite, because of the great quantities of fine, dusty, organic
refuse littering the tunnels and furnishing food and refuge for the larvæ. As demonstrated
to us by F. C. Bishopp, of the Bureau of Entomology, a handful of this refuse taken from the
floor of a burrow within arm's length of the entrance is almost certain to contain these larvæ.

