It's perfectly dreadful for a man to be made like Mr. Martin, and I'll never come near him
again. Sue says that he won't come back to the house, and if he does, she'll send him away
with something--I forget what it was--in his ear. Father hasn't heard about the eye yet, but
if he does hear about it, there will be a dreadful scene, for he bought a new rattan cane yesterday.
There ought to be a law to punish men that sell rattan canes to fathers, unless they haven't
any children.

POLLY.

BY FIDELIA REES MORTON.

"It's no use to tell me Polly Clark's only young and flighty, and that she's got a good heart,
and she'll be all right when she gets older, and all that kind of thing. That's all stuff and
nonsense. I tell you she's the wickedest child I ever laid eyes on, and if she were a boy,
I'd know she'd be hung afore she died; as it is, she's sure to get her death in some queer
way, with all them outlandish goings on of her'n." Having given vent to her feelings, and settled
poor Polly's fate to her own satisfaction, Deacon Jones's wife proceeded to relate the particulars
of the latest scandal to Sallie Perkins, the village gossip.

Mrs. Jones--alas that I am forced to say it!--was not alone in her convictions. The majority
of the inhabitants of L---- would have assured you, with a solemn shake of the head, that Polly
Clark was, without exception, the "most ornery youngster" that ever was born, and "sech a pity,
too, that Squire Clark's only child should be sech an everlastin' worrit to him." And yet a
look at Polly would disarm suspicion. A more gentle, lovable-looking girl it would be difficult
to find; but then we all know that appearances are deceitful. At church on Sunday she looked
so fair and innocent, always paying such good attention to the sermon, and gazing so earnestly
at the minister with those clear, soft brown eyes of hers, as if so anxious to understand every
word he uttered, that the uninitiated would be ready to declare that hers was indeed a heart
without guile. But those who knew her best were well aware that behind this calm exterior was
a mind in which the love of mischief reigned supreme, and for aught they knew, at the very
moment when she seemed most impressed by the minister's arguments, she had unexpectedly thought
of some brilliant plan that promised ill for the peace of mind of some intended victim. Indeed,
as poor nervous little Mrs. Clark said, "No one ever knows what Polly is going to do next.
I never get up in the morning but I dread what may happen before night. I don't even feel safe
about her after she goes to bed, since the time she went into the woods in the middle of the
night to try some trick or other with a dead cat, thinking, silly child, that in that way she
could cure a wart she had on her thumb. But then," Mrs. Clark always adds, "Polly is always
so good-tempered when she is scolded for doing wrong, and seems really to be so sorry about
it, that I can't help forgiving her, and hoping she will do better next time. But she don't;
she keeps on doing the most dreadful things, and--" And here the poor little woman generally
broke down completely, and wept bitterly over the unaccountable depravity of her only child.

As her mother said, Polly did indeed do "dreadful things." Many were the sermons the kind-hearted
old minister had preached, which, although delivered to the congregation at large, were expressly
intended to move Polly's heart, while she would sit calmly unconscious through them all, wondering
what old Aunt Cassy would say when she found her pet Tabby gayly decorated with red, white,
and blue paint in honor of the glorious Fourth; or whether Granny Lukens would enjoy the flavor
of Cayenne pepper in her tea.

All the old ladies in the neighborhood stood in wholesome awe of her, and Mrs. Jones's melancholy
predictions for her future were called forth by the remembrance of how, a week before, Polly
had presented her with a batch of doughnuts of her own making, which, when partaken of by some
friends invited to tea, were found to be filled with cotton; and that was not the worst of
it, for when Mrs. Jones attempted to pull the cotton from her mouth, her teeth came with it,
which unexpected letting of the cat out of the bag, so to speak, was more than a nine days'
wonder in L----. It is hardly necessary to add that from that time forth there was open warfare
between Mrs. Jones and Polly.

It would be too great a task for me to tell you of all my heroine's adventures. How, for instance,
she frightened the servant-girl into convulsions one night by suddenly appearing to her in
a dark hall, after having, with the aid of some sulphur matches, succeeded in making her face
bear a startling resemblance to a grinning, ghastly-looking skull; and how she tied a bunch
of fire-crackers to the tail of her father's best mule, and set them off, in return for which
doubtful favor that agile animal bestowed upon her a kick that broke two ribs, and confined
her to her bed for many weeks, during which period the old ladies of L---- were allowed to
rest in peace.

These are but samples of the dozens of tricks with which Polly busied her active brain, and
by means of which she was enabled to keep those around her in a continual state of uncertainty
as to what unheard-of thing she would attempt next.

But Polly, like Napoleon, was doomed to meet her Waterloo. Her last and most disastrous exploit
ended sadly both for herself and others. It happened in this way. Polly went to the circus.
From that time forth her daring acrobatic feats supplied the gossips of L---- with plenty of
material for conversation. They would tell how Polly broke her horse's leg by urging him to
jump over a stone wall, and how she almost dislocated her collar-bone in turning a double somersault
off a hay-rick; and in fact, they argued, "If she was any one else but Polly Clark, she'd 'a
been dead long ago; but them that's born to be hanged will never be drowned," though in what
way that proverb was appropriate in Polly's case they themselves could not have told you.

One day Polly conceived a brilliant idea. She would get up a circus of her own. The little
boys of the town eagerly agreed to Polly's plan of proceedings. They were to meet and rehearse
in her father's barn on Wednesday night, while Mr. and Mrs. Clark were attending the Lyceum
meeting.

The appointed hour drew near, and so did the boys. With Polly at their head, they marched in
grim silence past the house, and when they reached the barn, she informed them that Bridget,
thinking she had gone to bed, was entertaining her beau in the front parlor, so they could
make all the noise they wanted to, without fear of detection.

After a moment's search Polly unearthed a couple of candles, which Tommy Briggs lighted; and
while he and Polly adjusted the trapeze he had constructed in stolen moments, the other actors
in the drama rigged up a remarkably insecure tight-rope.

At last all was ready. "Down in front!" shouted Tommy, in an imperative manner, to the imaginary
audience. "The performance is a-goin' to begin. First, Mr. Adolphus Popinjay is goin' to do
some gymnastics with the trapeze."

Mr. Adolphus Popinjay, otherwise Jack Hybbed, after many attempts, and with much assistance,
succeeded in getting into the trapeze, where he went through a number of extraordinary antics,
the most difficult of which was that of standing on one foot, the other leg being extended
stiffly behind him, while with both hands he clutched convulsively to the sides of the trapeze.
Polly felt a keen sense of disappointment over Jack's performance. Somehow or other it lacked
the ease and grace that the man in the circus had exhibited. She was impatient for her turn
to come, that she might show them her idea of acrobatism. She was delighted when Tommy announced
that "Pauline, the great unbeaten tight-rope walker, is now a-goin' to come out."

Polly advanced majestically toward the tight-rope, which was fastened at one end to a big hook
in the side of the barn, and at the other end to the loft, against which was placed a ladder,
which she proceeded to ascend. There was a beam overhead, which Polly was to hold on to in
order to keep herself from falling, and assisted by it, she started out quite bravely; but
she had taken but four steps when Tommy shouted, "Hold on fast, Polly! the hook's comin' out."
Alas! the warning came too late. Before she could get hold of the beam securely, the hook came
out, and with a cry of terror poor Polly fell with a dull thud to the floor. Her dress knocked
over the candle as she fell, and in a second the hay that was scattered on the floor was in
a blaze. All the boys except Tommy Briggs rushed screaming from the barn, but he, by straining
every muscle, succeeded in dragging Polly out of the now blazing building, and then, the necessity
for exertion on his part being over, he fell in a dead faint by the side of the unconscious girl.

Help soon arrived, and the doctor being summoned, Polly was found to be severely injured, while
Tommy escaped with some slight burns and an attack of brain-fever. Poor Polly! for weeks she
suffered the most intense pain, and when at last she was able to leave her bed, she rose up
a sadder and a wiser girl.

Polly is a young woman now, but she still bears the mark of her last frolic in the shape of
a long scar on her cheek, where she struck on the rake when she fell.

Polly has one peculiarity. She is the confidential friend of every wild tom-boy of a girl in
town, because, as she says, she has such unbounded sympathy with them, and also because she
is so anxious to keep them from trying any such dangerous experiments as the one to which she
fell a victim.

HOW TROTTY GOT HIS JUMPING-JACK.

BY AGNES CARR.

Trotty sat on the nursery floor, gazing sadly at a broken jumping-jack, with only one leg,
no arms, and not much of a head to speak of. It was weeks since Christmas, and all the toys
Santa Claus had stuffed into Trotty's little striped stocking were cracked and broken, and
now this jumping-jack, the last and dearest of all, had gone to pieces too.

"I sink it's time Santa Tlaus tomed aden," remarked Trotty at last.

"Oh no," said nurse, who was holding baby by the window; "he is busy now, making toys to give
the good children next Christmas."

"Where does he live?" asked Trotty.

"In a house set in a garden of Christmas trees," began nurse; but just then somebody called
her from the room.

"I b'lieve I'll try and find dat house," thought Master Four-year-old, "and ask Santa Tlaus
to div me anodder jumping-jack."

To think, with Trotty, was to do, and five minutes later he had on his beloved new rubber boots,
and was running down the road as fast as his little fat legs would carry him, with a big apple
in his hand to eat on the way.

He came first to a pond where a duck was swimming. "Quack, quack," said the duck; which meant,
"What a nice red apple! I wish I had some."

"I will div you a bite," said Trotty, "if you will show me the way to Santa Tlaus's house."

"I don't know the way," said Ducky; "but give me some, and I will take you to the cat, and
she will tell you."

So Trotty gave her a bite, and the duck came out of the water, and waddled along in front of
Trotty till they came to a barn, where the cat and her five kittens were playing in the door.

"Please, Mrs. Pussy," said Trotty, "show me the way to Santa Tlaus's house, and I will div
you a bite of my apple."

"Mew, mew," said the pussy cat; which was, "I don't know the way; but give me some, and I will
take you to the dog, and he will tell you."

So Trotty gave her a bite, and she led him to the dog-kennel, where Towser the dog was snapping
at flies in the sun.

"Please, doggy," said Trotty, "show me the way to Santa Tlaus's house, and I'll div you a bite
of my apple."

"Bow, wow, wow," said Towser; which meant, "I don't know the way; but give me some, and I will
take you to the horse, who can tell you."

So Trotty gave him a bite, and together they went on to a green field, where a horse was feeding,
and Trotty asked him to show him the way.

"Neigh, neigh," said Horsy, "I don't know; but give me a piece of your apple, and I will take
you to the boy, who will surely tell you."

So Trotty gave him a bite, and the horse took him on his back, and galloped away, until they
came to a nice little boy sitting on a fence whistling. There was nothing now left of the apple
except the core; but Trotty said, "Please, boy, show me the way to Santa Tlaus's house, and
I'll div you the tore of my apple."

"I don't know the road," answered the boy; "but give it to me, and I will take you to the little
old woman who lives under the hill, and she will tell you."

So Trotty gave him the core, and the boy took him to a wee bit of a cottage, where an old woman
was spinning, and a girl with yellow hair was stirring something in a pot over the fire.

"Please, ma'am, will you show me the way to Santa Tlaus's house?" asked Trotty. But now he
had no more apple to offer.

"Yes, my little dear," said the old woman, sweetly. "Come in and rest, and then I will take
you there."

But the moment he was inside, she caught hold of him, took off all his pretty clothes, and
dressed him in old rags, and would have cut off his curls, but the yellow-haired girl said
the scissors were rusty, and she must wait till they were sharpened.

Trotty was dreadfully frightened, and thought he should never get home again; but when it grew
dark the old woman went to sleep on a bed in the corner, and then the girl with yellow hair
dressed him in his own clothes again, opened the door, and let him run away.

Trotty ran along in the dark until he saw a light, and found it came from a large house, and
all around the house grew beautiful evergreen trees.

"Dis must be Santa Tlaus's house," thought Trotty, "for there are the Tismas trees." So he
trotted up to the door, and knocked. It was opened by a big man with bushy whiskers.

"Is you Santa Tlaus?" asked Trotty.

"Bless us!" said the man. "And if I am, what do you want?"

"I wants a jumping-jack," sobbed Trotty. "And oh! I's tired, and I wants my supper."

"Bless us!" said the man again. But he caught Trotty up in his arms, carried him in, and set
him in a high chair in front of a great bowl of bread and milk.

Trotty went to eating right away, for he was very hungry; but before he came to the bottom
of the bowl his head nodded, his eyes closed, and he was fast asleep.

He never knew how long he slept; but when he woke up he was in his own little white bed at
home, and papa, mamma, and nurse were hugging and kissing him.

But on the pillow by his side lay a beautiful new jumping-jack; so he knew he had found the
house in the garden of Christmas trees, and seen good old Santa Claus himself.

BIRDIE'S VANITY.

BY C. L.

  Pussie and Kittie strolled out one day
  Into the garden to walk and play;
  They rolled on the grass, and jumped so high
  That the old drake "quacked" as he passed by.
  Said he, "I wish I could hop so light,"
  And on he hobbled with all his might.

  Above, little Susie's Birdie swung;
  His cage from a lofty window hung.
  As soon as he heard the drake's lament,
  His head on mischief was quickly bent.

  "Oho, Mister Drake, you soon shall see
  That Mistress Puss can not outjump me;
  And although my legs are short and thin,
  I'll wager that in a race I'll win."
  So saying, he flapped against the door
  Till his pretty wings were getting sore.

  At last, with a snap, the door came loose,
  And Birdie flew out--the little goose!
  He flew right down to the very ground
  Where Pussie and Kittie played around.
  And now there began a lively race,
  Which gained excitement at every pace.

  Little Birdie chirped, and hopped about,
  And Pussie followed him in and out,
  Under the rose-tree and through the hedge,
  Until they came to the garden's edge;
  And then Mister Birdie, full of pride,
  Mounted a tree by the water's side;
  And there he perched, with a proud delight,
  Boasting and singing with all his might,
  Until, quite weary and worn, at last
  He drooped his head, and soon slept fast.

  Then up jumped Puss from her hiding-place,
  And mounted the tree with nimble grace;
  But so gently did her footsteps fall,
  Not a sound the sleeper heard at all.

  And now, alas! Pussie crouches low:
  Poor Birdie will soon be gone. But no!
  A shrill little scream is heard to rise,
  And there stands Susie with frightened eyes.
  Old Pussie scampers with might and main,
  And Birdie pops wide his eyes again.

  Now think of his horror when he saw
  How near he had been to Pussie's paw!
  I really think he deserved the pain,
  Because he had been so very vain;
  And I'll venture that he did not seek
  Another frolic within a week.

Our exchange department is increasing so rapidly that we find it necessary to offer a few suggestions
to our young correspondents. In the first place, if you desire to exchange with other correspondents,
always give your full address. If you live in a large city, like Brooklyn, New York, or Philadelphia,
you should state your residence, street and number, or the number of your post-office box,
as otherwise it is not probable that you will ever receive an answer to your request. You have
all heard about hunting for a needle in a haymow; and if you stop to think, you will see it
would be just as useless to hunt for any little boy in New York city, unless you knew the street
in which he lived; and the faithful "little man in gray" who hurries from house to house with
his load of letters certainly can not be expected to know the residence of every Johnny Smith
in the city. With many of you who live in the country the case is different. Probably the postmaster
himself knows you, and will give you your letter, even if it is not addressed to your father's
care. In future we trust you will be careful always to give your residence or your father's
address, otherwise, as Uncle Sam's postman does not keep a directory of every little boy and
girl in the land, many of you may wait in vain for a chance to exchange your pretty pressed
flowers and other objects of interest.

One thing more. When any correspondent offers exchange, and gives a full address, as many have
done, it would simplify matters very much, and save us unnecessary trouble, if any one desirous
of accepting the offer would write at once to the given address instead of to us. As we can
in no case take charge of the transfer of specimens, which must always be directly between
yourselves, it is useless for you to write and tell us you are willing to accept the offer
of exchange made by any particular boy or girl. Write directly to them, and you will gain time,
and save yourself unnecessary postage.

As our exchange department is intended to develop in our readers a knowledge of the flowers,
trees, butterflies, birds' eggs, minerals, and other natural products of different sections
of their own country, we pay no attention to requests for exchanges of useless things, which
could lead at best to nothing higher than the gratification of an idle curiosity.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following communication was written in Danish, but as we fear that language is not understood
by many of our readers, we publish only the translation:

  RISERUP PARSONAGE, FALSTER, DENMARK.

     I am seven years old, and I live in Denmark. I like the pictures
     in YOUNG PEOPLE very much, and my aunt translates the stories to
     me, for I can not read English. We have made a drawing of Wiggle
     No. 11, and send it to you. I have a little white cat, and a big
     black dog called Sagax. Just outside of our garden there is a wood
     dove on its nest. I can stand close by it, and it is not at all
     afraid of me.

  EMIL KOCH.

We are very sorry your Wiggles came too late to be printed among our answers to No. 11, for
they are very pretty.

       *       *       *       *       *

  MARION, IOWA.

     I take YOUNG PEOPLE, and I don't know what I should do without it.
     I am eleven years old, and I have three brothers, all older than
     myself. We have two colts. One of them kicked me on the hip, but
     did not hurt me very much. I wish some little girl would send a
     nice recipe for making cookies.

  NELLIE E. O.

       *       *       *       *       *

  YONKERS, NEW YORK.

     I have read every number of YOUNG PEOPLE, from the first to the
     last one published. I enjoy reading the letters sent by the
     correspondents, and I like to read all the recipes for candy and
     cake. During vacation I am going to try them all. I have a pet
     canary-bird, which was a birthday gift.

     I am pressing a few leaves that I gathered on the Palisades, and I
     am going to press a good many this summer. When they are ready, I
     shall try to exchange with some little girl.

  EDITH L. G.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ST. HENRYS, OHIO.

     I like YOUNG PEOPLE better than any other paper I have ever taken.

     I have a pet 'coon, a squirrel, a canary, a dog, and two cats. And
     I have a large doll. She is three feet and eight inches tall. Her
     name is Gervaise. I got her at the Centennial Exhibition.

     I love to read the letters in the Post-office Box.

     I went fishing this spring for the first time, and caught six
     fish. I am eleven years old, and now in the summer I am not going
     to school.

     Will any little girl send me a recipe for cream candy?

  FLORA B.

       *       *       *       *       *

  OKOLONA, MISSISSIPPI.

     I am a little girl six years old, and I can not write very well
     yet. I do not go to school, but mamma teaches me at home. I like
     YOUNG PEOPLE so much! I have a little dog named Snip. I live in
     the South, and it is pretty warm here now.

     Two mocking-birds have a nest and four little baby birds in a
     rose-bush near our sitting-room window.

     Mamma and I are going to Michigan in a few weeks to see my grandma
     and grandpa. My papa is a preacher. I have no brother or sister.

  BESSIE M. MCL.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BELLE PLAINE, IOWA.

     Captain William Eaton, the subject of the sketch, "An American
     Soldier of Fortune," in YOUNG PEOPLE No. 34, was my mother's
     great-uncle on her father's side. So on her mother's side was
     Colonel William Knowlton.

  CORA F.

       *       *       *       *       *

  CEDAR FALLS, IOWA.

     I thought I would write about my pets. They are two old cats,
     three kittens, and a dog. Two of the kittens are gray, the other
     one is Maltese. My dog meets me every night when I come home from
     school, and always accompanies me when I go after wild flowers. I
     live in the country, and I think it is a very pretty place to
     live. I have no canary, but the birds sing very sweetly
     out-of-doors, and I like that much better than having one in a
     cage. I think Misfits are very amusing. I have no sister, and only
     one brother.

  JOSIE M. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

  HOKENDAUGAU, PENNSYLVANIA.

     I tried the recipe for kisses sent by C. H. S., and printed in
     YOUNG PEOPLE No. 35, and the kisses were splendid.

  B. H. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

  EXCELSIOR FARM, KANSAS.

     A pair of mocking-birds are rearing a nest of young birds in our
     front yard, and I would like to tame two of them. Can you tell me
     how to feed them and care for them?

  SIDNEY B. P.

Directions for feeding mocking-birds were given in Post-office Box No. 13, but no doubt some
of our young correspondents in the South can give farther particulars respecting the care of
young birds. We will gladly print any information they will kindly send.

       *       *       *       *       *

  WILMINGTON, NORTH CAROLINA.

     In the summer we go to the sea-shore, about eight miles from where
     we live. We ride there in carriages, and see many pretty flowers
     along the road. There is a very curious one among them. It is
     called Venus's-flytrap. If you put a fly in it, it will kill it
     and eat it.

     I think YOUNG PEOPLE is the best paper I ever read. I am ten years
     old, and my name is

  LOTTIE MAY W.

The Venus's-fly trap does not eat the fly, but at the end of each leaf, which springs from
the root, it has a kind of appendage, armed on the edge by glands resembling hairs, which contain
a sweet liquid attractive to insects. No sooner does a fly alight upon this sensitive leaf,
than, with a sudden spring, it closes, and crushes its victim to death. When the fly is dead,
the leaf again unfolds. This singular plant is a native of North Carolina.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Papa and I took a ride early this morning, before six o'clock. We
     saw three little squirrels, and we passed many chestnut-trees in
     full bloom (June 28), and saw wild raspberry bushes covered with
     ripe fruit.

     My canaries have hatched, but one egg broke, and one tiny birdling
     died, but out of five eggs I have three fine young birds. Their
     names are Ganarra, Goldie, and Downy. They are hopping around on
     the perches now. The mother bird behaved so badly that I took her
     out of the cage, and now the father takes care of the little ones.
     Is such an action common on the father's part, or is my Neddy the
     sweetest, dearest little bird in the world?

     I have tried almost all the recipes sent to the cooking club, and
     I send one myself, for white cake: Half a cup of butter; one cup
     of sugar; the whites of three eggs; half a cup of sweet milk; one
     and a half cups of flour; one tea-spoonful cream of tartar; half a
     tea-spoonful soda. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, and froth
     the whites of the eggs before stirring in.

     I think the Tree Album is very nice, and I would like to exchange
     specimens of our trees for some of other localities as soon as I
     have enough ready.

  ALTIA R. AUSTIN,
  Portland, Connecticut.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ELIZABETHTOWN, ILLINOIS.

     I varnish leaves with rosin. I sprinkle fine powdered rosin on the
     leaf, and then pass a hot iron over it. The rosin melts and
     spreads over the leaf, varnishing it beautifully. The method is
     both cheap and easy.

     Here is a recipe for cream candy for the cooking club: Three
     pounds of sugar; one cup of rich cream. Stew until the syrup
     candies when dropped in cold water. Flavor with lemon, and pour
     into buttered tins, or pull, as you prefer.

  EDITH L.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rodetta F. Bartlett and Margery R. H. send the cooking club recipes for sugar-candy. We acknowledge
them with thanks, but do not print them, as they vary only slightly from recipes given in previous
numbers.

       *       *       *       *       *

  WATERVLIET CENTRE, NEW YORK.

