The reader will doubtless remember how Duke Vlodomir, the grandson of Olga, the Russian, coming
to Constantinople to receive a bride, entered Sancta Sophia the first time, and from being
transfixed by what he saw and heard, fell down a convert to Christianity. Not unlike was the
effect upon Corti. In a sense he, too, was an unbeliever semi-barbaric in education. Many were
the hours he had spent with Mahommed while the latter, indulging his taste, built palaces and
mosques on paper, striving for vastness and original splendor. But what was the Prince's utmost
achievement in comparison with this interior? Had it been an ocean grotto, another Caprian
cave, bursting with all imaginable revelations of light and color, he could not have been more
deeply impressed. Without architectural knowledge; acquainted with few of the devices employed
in edificial construction, and still less with the mysterious power of combination peculiar
to genius groping for effects in form, dimensions, and arrangement of stone on stone with beautiful
and sublime intent; yet he had a soul to be intensely moved by such effects when actually set
before his eyes. He walked forward slowly four or five steps from the door, looking with excited
vision--not at details or to detect the composition of any of the world of objects constituting
the view, or with a thought of height, breadth, depth, or value--the marbles of the floor rich
in multiformity and hues, and reflective as motionless water, the historic pillars, the varied
arches, the extending galleries, the cornices, friezes, balustrades, crosses of gold, mosaics,
the windows and interlacing rays of light, brilliance here, shadows yonder--the apse in the
east, and the altar built up in it starry with burning candles and glittering with prismatic
gleams shot from precious stones and metals in every conceivable form of grace--lamps, cups,
vases, candlesticks, cloths, banners, crucifixes, canopies, chairs, Madonnas, Child Christs
and Christs Crucified--and over all, over lesser domes, over arches apparently swinging in
the air, broad, high, near yet far away, the dome of Sancta Sophia, defiant of imitation, like
unto itself alone, a younger sky within the elder--these, while he took those few steps, merged
and ran together in a unity which set his senses to reeling, and made question and thought
alike impossible.

How long the Count stood thus lost to himself in the glory and greatness of the place, he never
knew. The awakening was brought about by a strain of choral music, which, pouring from the
vicinity of the altar somewhere, flooded the nave, vast as it was, from floor to dome. No voice
more fitting could be imagined; and it seemed addressing itself to him especially. He trembled,
and began to think.

First there came to him a comparison in which the Kaaba was a relative. He recalled the day
he fell dying at the corner under the Black Stone. He saw the draped heap funereally dismal
in the midst of the cloisters. How bare and poor it seemed to him now! He remembered the visages
and howling of the demoniac wretches struggling to kiss the stone, though with his own kiss
he had just planted it with death. How different the worship here! ... This, he thought next,
was his mother's religion. And what more natural than that he should see that mother descending
to the chapel in her widow's weeds to pray for him? Tears filled his eyes. His heart arose
chokingly in his throat. Why should not her religion be his? It was the first time he had put
the question to himself directly; and he went further with it. What though Allah of the Islamite
and Jehovah of the Hebrew were the same?--What though the Koran and the Bible proceeded from
the same inspiration?--What though Mahomet and Christ were alike Sons of God? There were differences
in the worship, differences in the personality of the worshippers. Why, except to allow every
man a choice according to his ideas of the proper and best in form and companionship? And the
spirit swelled within him as he asked, Who are my brethren? They who stole me from my father's
house, who slew my father, who robbed my mother of the lights of life, and left her to the
darkness of mourning and the bitterness of ungratified hope--were not they the brethren of
my brethren?

At that moment an old man appeared before the altar with assistants in rich canonicals. One
placed on the elder's head what seemed a crown all a mass of flaming jewels; another laid upon
him a cloak of cloth of gold; a third slipped a ring over one of his fingers; whereupon the
venerable celebrant drew nearer the altar, and, after a prayer, took up a chalice and raised
it as if in honor to an image of Christ on a cross in the agonies of crucifixion. Then suddenly
the choir poured its triumphal thunder abroad until the floor, and galleries, and pendant lamps
seemed to vibrate. The assistants and worshippers sank upon their knees, and ere he was aware
the Count was in the same attitude of devotion.

The posture consisted perfectly with policy, his mission considered. Soon or late he would
have to adopt every form and observance of Christian worship. In this performance, however,
there was no premeditation, no calculation. In his exaltation of soul he fancied he heard a
voice passing with the tempestuous jubilation of the singers: "On thy knees, O apostate! On
thy knees! God is here!"

But his was a combative nature; and coming to himself, and not understanding clearly the cause
of his prostration, he presently arose. Of the worshippers in sight, he alone was then standing,
and the sonorous music ringing on, he was beginning to doubt the propriety of his action, when
a number of women, unobserved before, issued from a shaded corner at the right of the apse,
fell into processional order, and advanced slowly toward him.

One moved by herself in front. A reflection of her form upon the polished floor lent uncertainty
to her stature, and gave her an appearance of walking on water. Those following were plainly
her attendants. They were all veiled; while a white mantle fell from her left shoulder, its
ends lost in the folds of the train of her gown, leaving the head, face, and neck bare. Her
manner, noticeable in the distance even, was dignified without hauteur, simple, serious, free
of affectation. She was not thinking of herself.... Nearer--he heard no foot-fall. Now and
then she glided through slanting rays of soft, white light cast from upper windows, and they
seemed to derive ethereality from her.... Nearer--and he could see the marvellous pose of the
head, and the action of the figure, never incarnation more graceful.... Yet nearer--he beheld
her face, in complexion a child's, in expression a woman's. The eyes were downcast, the lips
moved. She might have been the theme of the music sweeping around her in acclamatory waves,
drowning the part she was carrying in suppressed murmur. He gazed steadfastly at the countenance.
The light upon the forehead was an increasing radiance, like a star's refined by passage through
the atmospheres of infinite space. A man insensitive to beauty in woman never was, never will
be. Vows cannot alter nature; neither can monkish garbs nor years; and it is knowledge of this
which makes every woman willing to last sacrifices for the gift; it is power to her, vulgarizing
accessories like wealth, coronets and thrones. With this confession in mind, words are not
needed to inform the reader of the thrills which assailed the Count while the marvel approached.

The service was over as to her, and she was evidently seeking to retire by the main door; but
as he stood in front of it, she came within two or three steps before noticing him. Then she
stopped suddenly, astonished by the figure in shining armor. A flush overspread her face; smiling
at her alarm, she spoke: "I pray pardon, Sir Knight, for disturbing thy devotions."

"And I, fair lady, am grateful to Heaven that it placed me in thy way to the door unintentionally."

He stepped aside, and she passed on and out.

The interior of the church, but a minute before so overwhelmingly magnificent and impressive,
became commonplace and dull. The singing rolled on unheard. His eyes fixed on the door through
which she went; his sensations were as if awakening from a dream in which he had seen a heavenly
visitant, and been permitted to speak to it.

The spell ceased with the music; then, with swift returning sense, he remembered Mahommed's
saying: "Thou wilt know her at sight."

And he knew her--the Her of the screed brought only that day by Ali.

His shoes of steel were strangely heavy when he regained his horse at the edge of the court.
For the first time in years, he climbed into the saddle using the stirrup like a man reft of
youth. He would love the woman--he could not help it. Did not every man love her at sight?

The idea colored everything as he rode slowly back to his quarters.

Dismounting at the door, it plied him with the repetition, Every man loves her at sight.

He thought of training himself to hate her, but none the less through the hours of the night
he heard the refrain, Every man loves her at sight.

In a clearer condition, his very inability to shut her out of mind, despite his thousand efforts
of will, would have taught him that another judgment was upon him.

HE LOVED HER.

CHAPTER VII

COUNT CORTI TO MAHOMMED

At noon the days are a little more yellow, and the shadows a trifle longer, while at evening
the snows on the far mountains give the air a coolness gently admonitory of the changing season;
with these exceptions there is scarcely a difference between the September to which we now
come and the closing stages of June.

Count Corti is fully settled in his position. Withal, however, he is very miserable. A new
light has been let in upon his being. He finds it a severe trial to serve a Mahommedan, knowing
himself a Christian born, and still more difficult trying to be a Turk, knowing himself an
Italian. The stings grow sharper as experience makes it plainer that he is nefariously helping
those whom he ought to regard enemies destroy an Emperor and people who never gave him offence.
Worst of all, most crushing to spirit, is his passion for the Princess Irene while under obligations
to Mahommed prohibitory of every hope, dream, and self-promise ordinarily the sweetest incidents
of love.

The person with a mental ailment curable by prompt decision, who yet goes about debating what
to do, will ere long find his will power so weakened as to leave him a confirmed wreck. Count
Corti seemed likely to become an instance in point. The months since his visit to the paternal
castle in Italy, really the beginning of the conflicts tossing him now here, now there, were
full of warnings he could but hear; still he continued his course.

His reports to Mahommed were frequent, and as they are of importance to our story, we think
it advisable to quote from some of them.

The following is from his first communication after the visit to Sancta Sophia:

"I cast myself at your feet, O my Lord, praying Allah to keep you in health, and strengthen
the wise designs which occupy you incessantly.... You bade me always speak first of the kinswoman
of the Emperor. Yesterday I rode to the Church supreme in the veneration of the Greeks, erected,
it is said, by the Emperor Justinian. Its vastness amazed me, and, knowing my Lord's love for
such creations, I declare, were there no other incentive to the conquest of this unbelieving
city than the reduction of Sancta Sophia to the religious usages of Islam, its possession would
alone justify my Lord's best effort, regardless of life and treasure. The riches accumulated
in it through the ages are incalculable; nevertheless its splendors, dazzling as the sun, varied
as a rainbow, sunk out of sight when the Princess Irene passed me so near that I had a perfect
view of her. Her face is composed of the light of unnumbered stars. The union of all the graces
in her person is so far above words that Hafiz, my Lord's prince of poets, would have been
dumb before her, or, if he had spoken, it would have been to say, She is the Song of Songs
impossible to verse. She spoke to me as she moved by, and her voice was the voice of Love.
Yet she had the dignity of a Queen governing the world through a conqueror such as my Lord
is to be. Then, the door having closed upon her, I was ready to declare, as I now do, were
there no other incentive to the conquest of this unbelieving city than the possession of the
womanly perfections belonging to her, she would justify war to the exhaustion of the universe.
O my Lord, thou only art worthy of her! And how infinite will be my happiness, if the Prophet
through his powerful intercessions with the Most Merciful, permits me to be the servant instrumental
in bringing her safely to thy arms!" This report concluded:

"By appointment of His Majesty, the Emperor, I had audience with him yesterday at his High
Residence, the Palace of Blacherne. The Court was in full attendance, and, after my presentation
to His Majesty, I was introduced to its members. The ceremony was in charge of the Grand Chamberlain,
that Phranza with whom my Lord is acquainted. Much I feared lest he should recognize me. Fortunately
he is dull and philosophical, and too much given to study of things abstract and far away to
be mindful of those close under his nose. Duke Notaras was there also. He conversed with me
about Italy. Fortunately I knew more about the Gabour country than he--its nobles, cities,
manners, and present conditions. He thanked me for information, and when he had my account
of the affair which brought me the invaluable certificate of the Bishop of Rome he gave over
sounding me. I have more reason to be watchful of him than all the rest of the court; so has
the Emperor. Phranza is a man to be spared. Notaras is a man to be bowstrung.... I flatter
myself the Emperor is my friend. In another month I shall be intrenched in his confidence.
He is brave, but weak. An excellent general without lieutenants, without soldiers, and too
generous and trustful for a politician, too religious for a statesman. His time is occupied
entirely with priests and priestly ceremonies. My Lord will appreciate the resort which enabled
me to encamp myself in his trust. Of the five Arab horses I brought with me from Aleppo, I
gave him one--a gray, superior to the best he has in his stables. He and his courtiers descended
in a body to look at the barb and admire it."

From the third report:

"A dinner at the High Residence. There were present officers of the army and navy, members
of the Court, the Patriarch, a number of the Clergy--Hegumen, as they are called--and the Princess
Irene, with a large suite of highborn ladies married and unmarried. His Majesty was the Sun
of the occasion, the Princess was the Moon. He sat on a raised seat at one side of the table;
she opposite him; the company according to rank, on their right and left. I had eyes for the
Moon only, thinking how soon my Lord would be her source of light, and that her loveliness,
made up of every loveliness else in the world, would then be the fitting complement of my Lord's
glory.... His Majesty did me the honor to lead me to her, and she did me the higher honor of
permitting me to kiss her hand. In further thought of what she was to my Lord, I was about
making her a salaam, but remembered myself--Italians are not given to that mode of salutation,
while the Greeks reserve it for the Emperor, or Basileus as he is sometimes called.... She
condescended to talk with me. Her graces of mind are like those of her person--adorable....
I was very deferent, and yielded the choice of topics. She chose two--religion and arms. Had
she been a man, she would have been a soldier; being a woman, she is a religious devotee. There
is nothing of which she is more desirous than the restoration of the Holy Sepulchre to the
Christian powers. She asked me if it were true the Holy Father commissioned me to make war
on the Tripolitan pirates, and when I said yes, she replied with a fervor truly engaging: 'The
practice of arms would be the noblest of occupations if it were given solely to crusading.'
... She then adverted to the Holy Father. I infer from her speaking of the Bishop of Rome as
the Holy Father that she inclines to the party which believes the Bishop rightfully the head
of the Church. How did he look? Was he a learned man? Did he set a becoming example to his
Clergy? Was he liberal and tolerant? If great calamity were to threaten Christianity in the
East, would he lend it material help?... My Lord will have a time winning the Princess over
to the Right Understanding; but in the fields of Love who ever repented him of his labor? When
my Lord was a boy, he once amused himself training a raven and a bird of paradise to talk.
The raven at length came to say, 'O Allah, Allah!' The other bird was beyond teaching, yet
my Lord loved it the best, and excused his partiality: 'Oh, its feathers are so brilliant!'"

Again:

"A few days ago, I rode out of the Golden Gate, and turning to the right, pursued along the
great moat to the Gate St. Romain. The wall, or rather the walls, of the city were on my right
hand, and it is an imposing work. The moat is in places so cumbered I doubt if it can be everywhere
flooded.... I bought some snow-water of a peddler, and examined the Gate in and out. Its central
position makes it a key of first importance. Thence I journeyed on surveying the road and adjacent
country up far as the Adrianople gate.... I hope my Lord will find the enclosed map of my reconnoissance
satisfactory. It is at least reliable."

Again:

"His Majesty indulged us with a hawking party. We rode to the Belgrade forest from which Constantinople
is chiefly though not entirely supplied with water.... My Lord's Flower of Flowers, the Princess,
was of the company. I offered her my chestnut courser, but she preferred a jennet. Remembering
your instructions, O my Lord, I kept close to her bridle. She rides wonderfully well; yet if
she had fallen, how many prayers to the Prophet, what amount of alms to the poor, would have
availed me with my Lord?... Riding is a lost art with the Greeks, if the ever possessed it.
The falcon killed a heron beyond a hill which none of them, except the Emperor, dared cross
in their saddles. Some day I will show them how we of my Lord's loving ride.... The Princess
came safely home."

Again:

"O my Lord in duty always!... I paid the usual daily visit to the Princess, and kissed her
hand upon my admission and departing. She has this quality above other women--she is always
the same. The planets differ from her in that they are sometimes overcast by clouds.... From
her house, I rode to the imperial arsenal, situated in the ground story of the Hippodrome,
northern side. [Footnote: Professor E A Grosvenor.] It is well stored with implements of offence
and defence--mangonels, balistas, arbalists, rams--cranes for repairing breaches--lances, javelins,
swords, axes, shields, scutums, pavises, armor--timber for ships--cressets for night work--ironmonger
machines--arquebuses, but of antique patterns--quarrels and arrows in countless sheaves--bows
of every style. In brief, as my Lord's soul is dauntless, as he is an eagle, which does not
abandon the firmament scared by the gleam of a huntsman's helmet in the valley, he can bear
to hear that the Emperor keeps prepared for the emergencies of war. Indeed, were His Majesty
as watchful in other respects, he would be dangerous. Who are to serve all these stores? His
native soldiers are not enough to make a bodyguard for my Lord. Only the walls of Byzantium
remain for her defence. The Church has swallowed the young men; the sword is discarded for
the rosary. Unless the warriors of the West succor her, she will be an easy prey."

Again:

"My Lord enjoined me to be royal.... I have just returned from a sail up the Bosphorus to the
Black Sea in my galley. The decks were crowded with guests. Under a silken pavilion pitched
on the roof of my cabin, there was a throne for the Princess Irene, and she shone as the central
jewel in a kingly crown.... We cast anchor in the bay of Therapia, and went ashore to her palace
and gardens. On the outside face of one of the gate-columns, she showed me a brass plate. I
recognized my Lord's signature and safeguard, and came near saluting them with a rik'rath,
but restraining myself, asked her innocently, 'What it was?' O my Lord, verily I congratulate
you! She blushed, and cast down her eyes, and her voice trembled while she answered: 'They
say the Prince Mahommed nailed it there.' 'What Prince Mahommed?' 'He who is now Sultan of
the Turks.' 'He has been here, then? Did you see him?' 'I saw an Arab story-teller.' Her face
was the hue of a scarlet poppy, and I feared to go further than ask concerning the plate: 'What
does it mean?' And she returned: 'The Turks never go by without prostrating themselves before
it. They say it is notice to them that I, and my house and grounds, are sacred from their intrusion.'
And then I said: 'Amongst peoples of the East and the Desert, down far as the Barbary coast,
the Sultan Mahommed has high fame for chivalry. His bounties to those once fortunate enough
to excite his regard are inexhaustible.' She would have had me speak further of you, but out
of caution, I was driven to declare I knew nothing beyond the hearsay of the Islamites among
whom I had been here and there cast.... My Lord will not require me to describe the palace
by Therapia. He has seen it.... The Princess remained there. I was at sore loss, not knowing
how I could continue to make report of her to my Lord, until, to my relief she invited me to
visit her."

Again:

"I am glad to say, for my Lord's sake, that the October winds, sweeping down from the Black
Sea, have compelled his Princess to return to her house in the city, where she will abide till
the summer comes again. I saw her to-day. The country life has retouched her cheeks with a
just-sufficient stain of red roses; her lips are scarlet, as if she had been mincing fresh-blown
bloom of pomegranates; her eyes are clear as a crooning baby's; her neck is downy--round as
a white dove's; in her movements afoot, she reminds me of the swaying of a lily-stalk brushed
softly by butterflies and humming-birds, attracted to its open cup of paradisean wax. Oh, if
I could but tell her of my Lord!"...

This report was lengthy, and included the account of an episode more personal to the Sultanic
emissary than any before given his master. It was dated October. The subjoined extracts may
prove interesting.

... "Everybody in the East has heard of the Hippodrome, whither I went one day last week, and
again yesterday. It was the mighty edifice in which Byzantine vanity aired itself through hundreds
of years. But little of it is now left standing. At the north end of an area probably seventy
paces wide, and four hundred long, is a defaced structure with a ground floor containing the
arsenal, and on that, boxes filled with seats. A lesser building rises above the boxes which
is said to have been a palace called the Kathisma, from which the Emperor looked down upon
the various amusements of the people, such as chariot racing, and battles between the Blue
and Green factions. Around the area from the Kathisma lie hills of brick and marble--enough
to build the Palace as yet hid in my Lord's dreams, and a mosque to becomingly house our Mohammedan
religion. In the midst, marking a line central of the race-course, are three relics--a square
pillar quite a hundred feet high, bare now, but covered once with plates of brass--an obelisk
from Egypt--and a twisted bronze column, representing three writhing serpents, their heads
in air. [Footnote: The Hippodrome was the popular pleasure resort in Constantinople. Besides
accommodating one hundred thousand spectators, it was the most complete building for the purposes
of its erection ever known. The world--including old Rome--had been robbed of statuary for
the adornment of this extravaganza. Its enormous level posed in great part upon a substructure
of arches on arches, which still exist. The opinion is quite general that it was destroyed
by the Turks, and that much of its material went to construct the Mosque Sulymanie. The latter
averment is doubtless correct; but it is only justice to say that the Crusaders, so called
Christians, who encamped in Constantinople in 1204 were the real vandals. For pastime, merely,
they plied their battle-axes on the carvings, inscriptions, and vast collection of statuary
in marble and bronze found by them on the spinet, and elsewhere in the edifice. When they departed,
the Hippodrome was an irreparable ruin--a convenient and lawful quarry.]... The present Emperor
does not honor the ruin with his presence; but the people come, and sitting in the boxes under
the KATHISMA, and standing on the heaps near by, find diversion watching the officers and soldiers
exercising their horses along the area.... My Lord must know, in the next place, that there
is in the city a son of the Orchan who terms himself lawful heir of Solyman of blessed memory--the
Orchan pretender to my Lord's throne, whom the Greeks have been keeping in mock confinement--the
Orchan who is the subject of the present Emperor's demand on my Lord for an increase of the
stipend heretofore paid for the impostor's support. The son of the pretender, being a Turk,
affects the martial practices prevalent with us, and enjoys notoriety for accomplishments as
a horseman, and in the tourney play djerid. He is even accredited with an intention of one
day taking the field against my Lord--this when his father, the old Orchan, dies.... When I
entered the Hippodrome one day last week, Orchan the younger occupied the arena before the
Kathisma. The boxes were well filled with spectators. Some officers of my acquaintance were
present, mounted like myself, and they accosted me politely, and eulogized the performance.
Afterwhile I joined in their commendation, but ventured to say I had seen better exercise during
my sojourn among the infidels in the Holy Land. They asked me if I had any skill. 'I cannot
call it skill,' I said; 'but my instruction was from a noble master, the Sheik of the Jordan.'
Nothing would rest them then but a trial. At length I assented on condition that the Turk would
engage me in a tourney or a combat without quarter--bow, cimeter, spear--on horseback and in
Moslem armor. They were astonished, but agreed to carry the challenge.... Now, O my Lord, do
not condemn me. My residence here has extended into months, without an incident to break the
peace. Your pleasure is still my rule. I keep the custom of going about on horseback and in
armor. Once only--at His Majesty's dinner--I appeared in a Venetian suit--a red mantle and
hose, one leg black, the other yellow-- red-feathered cap, shoes with the long points chained
to my knees. Was there not danger of being mistaken for a strutting bird of show? If my hand
is cunning with weapons, should not the Greeks be taught it? How better recommend myself to
His Majesty of Blacherne? Then, what an opportunity to rid my Lord of future annoyance! Old
Orchan cannot live much longer, while this cheeping chicken is young.... The son of the pretender,
being told I was an Italian, replied he would try a tourney with me; if I proved worthy, he
would consider the combat.... Yesterday was the time for the meeting. There was a multitude
out as witnesses, the Emperor amongst others. He did not resort to the Kathisma, but kept his
saddle, with a bodyguard of horsemen at his back. His mount was my gray Arab.... We began with
volting, demi-volting, jumping, wheeling in retreat, throwing the horse. Orchan was a fumbler....
We took to bows next, twelve arrows each. At full speed he put two bolts in the target, and
I twelve, all in the white ring.... Then spear against cimeter. I offered him choice, and he
took the spear. In the first career, the blunted head of his weapon fell to the ground shorn
off close behind the ferrule. The spectators cheered and laughed, and growing angry, Orchan
shouted it was an accident, and challenged me to combat. I accepted, but His Majesty interposed--we
might conclude with the spear and sword in tourney again.... My antagonist, charged with malicious
intent, resolved to kill me. I avoided his shaft, and as his horse bolted past on my left,
I pushed him with my shield, and knocked him from the saddle. They picked him up bleeding nose
and ears. His Majesty invited me to accompany him to Blacherne.... I left the Hippodrome sorry
not to have been permitted to fight the vain fool; yet my repute in Constantinople is now undoubtedly
good--I am a soldier to be cultivated."

Again:

"His Majesty has placed me formally in charge of the gate in front of my quarters. Communication
with my Lord is now at all times easy. The keys of the city are in effect mine. Nevertheless
I shall continue to patronize Ali. His fish are the freshest brought to market."

Again:

"O my Lord, the Princess Irene is well and keeps the morning colors in her cheeks for you.
Yet I found her quite distraught. There was unwelcome news at the Palace from His Majesty's
ambassador at Adrianople. The Sultan had at last answered the demand for increase of the Orchan
stipend--not only was the increase refused, but the stipend itself was withdrawn, and a peremptory
order to that effect sent to the province whence the fund has been all along collected....
I made a calculation, with conclusion that my report of the tourney with young Orchan reached
my Lord's hand, and I now am patting myself on the back, happy to believe it had something
to do with my Lord's decision. The imposition deserved to have its head blown off. Orchan is
a dotard. His son's ears are still impaired. In the fall the ground caught him crown first.
He will never ride again. The pretension is over.... I rode from the Princess' house directly
to Blacherne. The Grand Council was in session: yet the Prefect of the Palace admitted me....
O my Lord, this Constantine is a man, a warrior, an Emperor, surrounded by old women afraid
of their shadows. The subject of discussion when I went in was the news from Adrianople. His
Majesty was of opinion that your decision, coupled with the order discontinuing the stipend,
was sign of a hostile intent. He was in favor of preparing for war. Phranza thought diplomacy
not yet spent. Notaras asked what preparations His Majesty had in mind. His Majesty replied,
buying cannon and powder, stocking the magazines with provisions for a siege, increasing the
navy, repairing the walls, clearing out the moat. He would also send an embassy to the Bishop
of Rome, and through him appeal to the Christian powers of Europe for assistance in men and
money. Notaras rejoined instantly: 'Rather than a Papal Legate in Constantinople, he would
prefer a turbaned Turk.' The Council broke up in confusion.... Verily, O my Lord, I pitied
the Emperor. So much courage, so much weakness! His capital and the slender remnant of his
empire are lost unless the Gabours of Venice and Italy come to his aid. Will they? The Holy
Father, using the opportunity, will try once more to bring the Eastern Church to its knees,
and failing, will leave it to its fate. If my Lord knocked at these gates to-morrow, Notaras
would open one of them, and I another.... Yet the Emperor will fight. He has the soul of a hero."

Again:

"The Princess Irene is inconsolable. Intensely Greek, and patriotic, and not a little versed
in politics, she sees nothing cheering in the situation of the Empire. The vigils of night
in her oratory are leaving their traces on her face. Her eyes are worn with weeping. I find
it impossible not to sympathize with so much beauty tempered by so many virtues. When the worst
has befallen, perhaps my Lord will know how to comfort her."

Finally:

"It is a week since I last wrote my Lord. Ali has been sick but keeps in good humor, and says
he will be well when Christian winds cease blowing from Constantinople. He prays you to come
and stop them.... The diplomatic mishaps of the Emperor have quickened the religious feuds
of his subjects. The Latins everywhere quote the speech of Notaras in the Council: 'Rather
than a Papal Legate in Constantinople, I prefer a turbaned Turk'--and denounce it as treason
to God and the State. It certainly represents the true feeling of the Greek clergy; yet they
are chary in defending the Duke.... The Princess is somewhat recovered, although perceptibly
paler than is her wont. She is longing for the return of spring, and promises herself health
and happiness in the palace at Therapia.... To-morrow, she informs me, there is to be a special
grand service in Sancta Sophia. The Brotherhoods here and elsewhere will be present. I will
be there also. She hopes peace and rest from doctrinal disputes will follow. We will see."

The extracts above given will help the reader to an idea of life in Constantinople; more especially
they portray the peculiar service rendered by Corti during the months they cover.

There are two points in them deserving special notice: The warmth of description indulged with
respect to the Princess Irene and the betrayal of the Emperor. It must not be supposed the
Count was unaware of his perfidy. He did his writing after night, when the city and his own
household were asleep; and the time was chosen, not merely for greater security from discovery,
but that no eye might see the remorse he suffered. How often he broke off in the composition
to pray for strength to rescue his honor, and save himself from the inflictions of conscience!
There were caverns in the mountains and islands off in the mid-seas: why not fly to them? Alas!
He was now in a bondage which made him weak as water. It was possible to desert Mahommed, but
not the Princess. The dangers thickening around the city were to her as well. Telling her of
them were useless; she would never abandon the old Capital; and it was the perpetually recurring
comparison of her strength with his own weakness which wrought him his sharpest pangs. Writing
of her in poetic strain was easy, for he loved her above every earthly consideration: but when
he thought of the intent with which he wrote--that he was serving the love of another, and
basely scheming to deliver her to him--there was no refuge in flight; recollection would go
with him to the ends of the earth--better death. Not yet--not yet--he would argue. Heaven might
send him a happy chance. So the weeks melted into months, and he kept the weary way hoping
against reason, conspiring, betraying, demoralizing, sinking into despair.

CHAPTER VIII

OUR LORD'S CREED

Proceeding now to the special service mentioned in the extract from the last report of Count
Corti to Mahommed.

The nave of Sancta Sophia was in possession of a multitude composed of all the Brotherhoods
of the city, interspersed with visiting delegations from the monasteries of the Islands and
many of the hermitic colonies settled in the mountains along the Asiatic shore of the Marmora.
In the galleries were many women; amongst them, on the right-hand side, the Princess Irene.
Her chair rested on a carpeted box a little removed from the immense pilaster, and raised thus
nearly to a level with the top of the balustrade directly before her, she could easily overlook
the floor below, including the apse. From her position everybody appeared dwarfed; yet she
could see each figure quite well in the light of the forty arched windows above the galleries.

On the floor the chancel, or space devoted to the altar, was separated from the body of the
nave by a railing of Corinthian brass, inside which, at the left, she beheld the Emperor, in
Basilean regalia, seated on a throne--a very stately and imposing figure. Opposite him was
the chair of the Patriarch. Between the altar and the railing arose a baldacchino, the canopy
of white silk, the four supporting columns of shining silver. Under the canopy, suspended by
a cord, hung the vessel of gold containing the Blessed Sacraments; and to the initiated it
was a sufficient publication of the object of the assemblage.

Outside the railing, facing the altar, stood the multitude. To get an idea of its appearance,
the reader has merely to remember the description of the bands marching into the garden of
Blacherne the night of the Pannychides. There were the same gowns black and gray; the same
tonsured heads, and heads shock-haired; the same hoods and glistening rosaries; the same gloomy,
bearded faces; the same banners, oriflammes, and ecclesiastical gonfalons, each with its community
under it in a distinctive group. Back further towards the entrances from the vestibule was
a promiscuous host of soldiers and civilians; having no part in the service, they were there
as spectators.

The ceremony was under the personal conduct of the Patriarch. Silence being complete, the choir,
invisible from the body of the nave, began its magnificent rendition of the Sanctus--"Holy,
holy, holy, Lord God of Sabaoth. Blessed is He who cometh in the name of the Lord. Hosanna
in the highest"--and during the singing, His Serenity was clothed for the rite. Over his cassock,
the deacons placed the surplice of white linen, and over that again a stole stiff with gold
embroidery. He then walked slowly to the altar, and prayed; and when he had himself communicated,
he was led to the baldacchino, where he blessed the Body and the Blood, and mixed them together
in chalices, ready for delivery to the company of servers kneeling about him. The Emperor,
who, in common with the communicants within and without the railing, had been on his knees,
arose now and took position before the altar in a prayerful attitude; whereupon the Patriarch
brought him a chalice on a small paten, and he put it to his lips, while the choir rang the
dome with triumphal symphony.

His Serenity next returned to the baldacchino, and commenced giving the cups to the servers;
at the same time the gate leading from the chancel to the nave was thrown open. Nor rustle
of garment, nor stir of foot was heard.

Then a black-gowned figure arose amidst a group not far from the gate, and said, in a hoarse
voice, muffled by the flaps of the hood covering his head and face:

"We are here, O Serenity, by thy invitation--here to partake of the Holy Eucharist--and I see
thou art about sending it to us. Now not a few present believe there is no grace in leavened
bread, and others hold it impiety to partake thereof. Wherefore tell us"--

