"Beside these most common of pests already mentioned, pests which attack many kinds of plants,
there are special pests for special plants. Discouraging, is it not? Beans have pests of their
own; so have potatoes and cabbages, as George well knows. In fact, the vegetable garden has
many inhabitants. In the flower garden lice are very bothersome, the cutworm and the slug have
a good time there, too, and ants often get very numerous as the season advances. But for real
discouraging insect troubles the vegetable garden takes the prize. If we were going into fruit
to any extent, perhaps the vegetable garden would have to resign in favour of the fruit garden.

"A common pest in the vegetable garden is the tomato worm. This is a large yellowish or greenish
striped worm. Its work is to eat into the young fruit.

"A great, light green caterpillar is found on celery. This caterpillar may be told by the black
bands, one on each ring or segment of its body.

"The squash bug may be told by its brown body, which is long and slender, and by the disagreeable
odour from it when killed. The potato bug is another fellow to look out for. It is a beetle
with yellow and black stripes down its crusty back. The little green cabbage worm is a perfect
nuisance. It is a small caterpillar and smaller than the tomato worm. These are perhaps the
most common of garden pests by name. It might be well to take up the common vegetables and
flowers mentioning the pests which prey on each one.

"Let us take the vegetables first. None of us have grown asparagus yet; but it will be well
to know about this vegetable. There is a beetle which may trouble asparagus plants. It is red
with markings of black. The grub of this beetle is dark green. Look out for the asparagus beetle
during April and May, for these are the months when it appears. The eggs are laid on young
shoots of the plant. Such shoots should be cut right off. After the cutting season is over
the plants should be sprayed. This may be done in August. Very dilute Bordeaux mixture or Paris
green may be used for a spray.

"Next in the alphabet come beans. The most common trouble that beans have is one called anthracnose.
That staggering word means that the leaves become covered with spots which are round with purple
borders. Again, a spray of Bordeaux mixture should be used. The plants should be sprayed until
the pods form. Look for this trouble in July.

"Beets are prone to leaf spots. As soon as such spots appear, the plants should be sprayed
with the Bordeaux mixture. Every two weeks give the plants about three sprayings.

"The cabbage worm I have spoken of. This worm works all summer. Cabbages, if neglected, become
literally alive with the little caterpillars. They eat and eat the foliage, riddling it completely.
They eat into the heads so that the cabbage plant is completely spoiled. George treated his
with pyrethrum powder. This he mixed with five times its bulk of dust. It was then dusted or
shaken over the cabbage plant. A very good thing to do before trouble begins is to dust the
soil and tender plants with lime. After the plants have begun to head use hellebore powder.

"Lice appear on cauliflower. The kerosene emulsion which we use on our indoor plants is all
right for this work, too. The lice appear on the foliage in great white masses. They suck the
life and goodness from the plant. They come all through the summer at any time. Whale oil soap
is another good spray to use. Peter has typewritten receipts for these sprays which you may
have at the close of this talk. Sometimes the root of the cauliflower is attacked. Little white
maggots mine or burrow through the root. They are quite likely to begin their bad work in June
or July. That rather dangerous carbon bisulphid is the medicine for this trouble. Make a hole
in the soil as you did when treating the ant. Do not make this too near the plant. I should
say six inches away would be about right. Pour a teaspoonful of the poison into the hole and
it will take care of itself. Cover the hole over as you would in the case of the ant. When
cauliflower plants begin to look sickly pull one up. If it is full of maggots that is easy
to determine. But it may be that you will find great lumps or knots on the root. Since these
knots appear during the same months as the maggots, you can only be sure of the real cause
by pulling up a plant. If these knots are on the root, then you have a very serious trouble
to contend with. So serious is the club root condition that the only safe thing to do is to
pull up and completely destroy the diseased plants. Dig the soil up after this. Then lime it.
Put a lot of lime on, not just a dusting over the surface of the soil. This represents soil
that is in trouble, so do not plant cauliflower here again, or its coarser cousin, the cabbage.

"Sometimes a little red or orange and black bug appears. This is called the harlequin bug from
its fantastic appearance. This bug may come all summer long at any time. The whale oil soap
spray is the one to use. Celery may be troubled with the light green caterpillar with the black
bands before spoken of. This caterpillar arrives in August. It is not difficult at all to see,
so many may be picked off just by hand. One may use Paris green as a spray.

"None of you had any trouble with corn being infested. But sometimes a worm, called the earworm,
which is like the tomato worm, will appear during June and eat the tips of the young ears.
A little Paris green sprinkled on the leaves, at their base will kill them.

"Cucumbers and melons, as I have before said, are prone to be preys of the cutworms, squash
bugs, striped beetles, and lice or aphis. You know treatment for cutworms and lice. The squash
bug may be destroyed by hand. Sometimes when bits of sticks are placed on the ground the bugs
will crawl under them. Next morning a small harvest of bugs can be killed. The squash bug lays
its eggs on the under surface of the plant's leaves. These leaves should be removed and burned.
The striped beetle is kept off by the Bordeaux mixture spray. This beetle appears in June.
A spraying during this month often prevents a blight of the leaves in July. This blight appears
first as a spotting on the leaves, after which the leaves soon wither up.

"Onions, as well as radishes, are affected by maggots which will mine through the onion bulb
as well as the stems of the young, tender plants. A solution made from carbolic soap and water
is excellent with which to water the soil about the plants.

"Peas have green lice as melons and cucumbers do. The lice appear early in May and June, and
are killed and kept down by the regulation treatment. Many times during the latter part of
summer peas may become mildewed. You can tell this by a growth of white down on stem and leaves.
Put some soap in the Bordeaux mixture and spray.

"From May to October potato bugs flourish. Paris green is the spray to use. In the start they
may be hand picked. But do not let them get ahead of your hand. A very serious potato disease
is that of scab. Scales appear on the potatoes themselves. To prevent this, uncut seed potatoes
are soaked in poison. But this is not a work for you to do alone by any means.

"The squash bug naturally seeks out the squash vine. He should be treated as we said when we
talked of the same bug and melons.

"Tomatoes have numerous troubles. The cutworm, the tomato worm, the horn worm, potato beetle
and various blights may come to tomatoes. The horn worm is a large green worm named from the
horn at one end of its body. It appears in midsummer. Such large worms usually may be hand
picked. If you should see a tomato plant wilting for no reason at all, pull it up and burn
it; it probably has an infectious trouble which is carried from one plant to another by insects.
It is really an infectious disease.

"These are the most common vegetable garden pests and their remedies.

"As the girls know, the flower garden is not without pests, too. Plant lice are plenty enough.
These may appear at one time or another during the entire year.

"Some plants become covered with a little red spider. It attacks the foliage and does great
damage. This may be due to lack of moisture with house plants. I do not mean lack of watering,
but a dry condition of the air of the room. Often just a spray of clear water is sufficient
to rid the plant of the mites.

"Roses have more troubles than any one other flower. The rose bush may have lice or it may
have a little green bug that jumps very quickly and so gets its name of leaf-hopper. Kerosene
emulsion is good to use. Often slugs will feed upon the surface of the leaves. A dusting of
lime over the leaves keeps these feeders away. There is a brown beetle called the rose chafer,
which eats the flower itself. Hand picking is about the best weapon to employ against this
enemy. A scale sometimes comes on the stems. This scale looks like a white crust. It is wise
to spray such rose bushes with kerosene emulsion. And better still, if possible, cut off and
burn such scale-encrusted parts.

"Cutworms bother the early bulbs and the violets, too. A great many of the larger pests may
be hand picked. The lice should be sprayed.

"And for the remedies. The following will be the ones you will need the most:

    KEROSENE EMULSION

    Soap (Ivory)                                       1/4 pound

    Boiling water                                        2 quarts

    Kerosene                                             4 quarts

"The soap should be shaved up and dissolved in the water. To this add the kerosene (of course
not when the soap and water is on the stove) a little at a time. Beat it with an egg beater
to be kept for that purpose; or shake it vigorously.

"For use against plant lice add to one cup of this emulsion 8 cups of water. For scale insects
dilute with four cups of water.

    BORDEAUX MIXTURE

    I.  Copper sulphate (blue vitriol)                        1 lb.
        Water                                                 1 gal.
        Dissolve the sulphate in the water.

    II. Slaked lime                                           1 lb.
        Water                                                 1 gal.
        Dissolve the lime in the water.

To one bucket (2-1/2 gallons) of fresh water add four pints of the first solution. To another
bucket of fresh water add six pints of the second solution.

Stir these together. Keep the rest of the solutions I. and II. for later mixing when it is needed.

WHALE OIL SOAP HOT WATER SOLUTION

Whale oil soap                                     1 pound Hot  water                     
6 quarts

This is the right dilution for plant lice but for scale insects it is too weak; for them use
about two quarts of water to one pound of soap.

"The best way to apply liquid sprays in small gardens is to use a whisk broom. Just dip the
little broom into the mixture needed and shake the brush over the plant. Then the hands need
never come in contact with the poison. Careful children can use sprays without any trouble.
Josephine has used kerosene emulsion in this fashion: she pours a little into a saucer, takes
a bit of cheese cloth and dipping it into the emulsion wipes the lice off an infested part.
Usually one application is enough. This sounds like a much more disagreeable task than it really
is. A plant syringe may be used. But personally I like the hand method. Of course if there
are lots of lice on many plants this would not be practical at all.

"It stands to reason that sick plants need medicines of some kind. Sometimes to be sure they
need better living conditions. Often the soil is sour, water-logged, unaired and totally unfit
for a self-respecting plant to live in. The whole thing resolves itself into a study of conditions,
and a desire to help the plant have as comfortable a time as possible in life."

IX

VEGETABLE CULTURE

"As a rule, boys and girls choose to grow bush beans rather than pole beans. I cannot make
up my mind whether or not this is from sheer laziness. In a city backyard the tall varieties
might perhaps be a problem since it would be difficult to get poles. But these running beans
can be trained along old fences and with little urging will run up the stalks of the tallest
sunflowers. So that settles the pole question. There is an ornamental side to the bean question.
Suppose you plant these tall beans at the extreme rear end of each vegetable row. Make arches
with supple tree limbs, binding them over to form the arch. Train the beans over these. When
one stands facing the garden, what a beautiful terminus these bean arches make.

"Beans like rich, warm, sandy soil. In order to assist the soil be sure to dig deeply, and
work it over thoroughly for bean culture. It never does to plant beans before the world has
warmed up from its spring chills. There is another advantage in early digging of soil. It brings
to the surface eggs and larvae of insects. The birds eager for food will even follow the plough
to pick from the soil these choice morsels. A little lime worked in with the soil is helpful
in the cultivation of beans.

"Bush beans are planted in drills about eighteen inches apart, while the pole-bean rows should
be three feet apart. The drills for the bush limas should be further apart than those for the
other dwarf beans--say three feet. This amount of space gives opportunity for cultivation with
the hoe. If the running beans climb too high just pinch off the growing extreme end, and this
will hold back the upward growth.

"Among bush beans are the dwarf, snap or string beans, the wax beans, the bush limas, one variety
of which is known as brittle beans. Among the pole beans are the pole limas, wax and scarlet
runner. The scarlet runner is a beauty for decorative effects. The flowers are scarlet and
are fine against an old fence. These are quite lovely in the flower garden. Where one wishes
a vine, this is good to plant for one gets both a vegetable, bright flowers and a screen from
the one plant. When planting beans put the bean in the soil edgewise with the eye down.

"Beets like rich, sandy loam, also. Fresh manure worked into the soil is fatal for beets, as
it is for many another crop. But we will suppose that nothing is available but fresh manure.
Some gardeners say to work this into the soil with great care and thoroughness. But even so,
there is danger of a particle of it getting next to a tender beet root. The following can be
done; Dig a trench about a foot deep, spread a thin layer of manure in this, cover it with
soil, and plant above this. By the time the main root strikes down to the manure layer, there
will be little harm done. Beets should not be transplanted. If the rows are one foot apart
there is ample space for cultivation. Whenever the weather is really settled, then these seeds
may be planted. Young beet tops make fine greens. Greater care should be taken in handling
beets than usually is shown. When beets are to be boiled, if the tip of the root and the tops
are cut off, the beet bleeds. This means a loss of good material. Pinching off such parts with
the fingers and doing this not too closely to the beet itself is the proper method of handling.
I throw this in for the benefit of our future cooks, the girls.

"There are big coarse members of the beet and cabbage families called the mangel wurzel and
ruta baga. About here these are raised to feed to the cattle. They are a great addition to
a cow's dinner.

"The cabbage family is a large one. There is the cabbage proper, then cauliflower, broccoli
or a more hardy cauliflower, kale, Brussels sprouts and kohlrabi, a cabbage-turnip combination.
George has worked out cabbage culture successfully. I refer to him for full particulars.

"Cauliflower is a kind of refined, high-toned cabbage relative. It needs a little richer soil
than cabbage and cannot stand the frost. A frequent watering with manure water gives it the
extra richness and water it really needs. The outer leaves must be bent over, as in the case
of the young cabbage, in order to get the white head. The dwarf varieties are rather the best
to plant.

"Kale is not quite so particular a cousin. It can stand frost. Rich soil is necessary, and
early spring planting, because of slow maturing. It may be planted in September for early spring
work.

"Brussels sprouts are a very popular member of this family. On account of their size many people
who do not like to serve poor, common old cabbage will serve these. Brussels sprouts are interesting
in their growth. The plant stalk runs skyward. At the top, umbrella like, is a close head of
leaves, but this is not what we eat. Shaded by the umbrella and packed all along the stalk
are delicious little cabbages or sprouts. Like the rest of the family a rich soil is needed
and plenty of water during the growing period. The seed should be planted in May, and the little
plants transplanted into rich soil in late July. The rows should be eighteen inches apart,
and the plants one foot apart in the rows.

"Kohlrabi is a go-between in the families of cabbage and turnip. It is sometimes called the
turnip-root cabbage. Just above the ground the stem of this plant swells into a turnip-like
vegetable. In the true turnip the swelling is underground, but like the cabbage, kohlrabi forms
its edible part above ground. It is easy to grow. Only it should develop rapidly, otherwise
the swelling gets woody, and so loses its good quality. Sow out as early as possible; or sow
inside in March and transplant to the open. Plant in drills about two feet apart. Set the plants
about one foot apart, or thin out to this distance. To plant one hundred feet of drill buy
half an ounce of seed. Seed goes a long way, you see. Kohlrabi is served and prepared like
turnip. It is a very satisfactory early crop.

"Before leaving the cabbage family I should like to say that the cabbage called Savoy is an
excellent variety to try. It should always have an early planting under cover, say in February,
and then be transplanted into open beds in March or April. If the land is poor where you are
to grow cabbage, then by all means choose Savoy.

"Carrots are of two general kinds: those with long roots, and those with short roots. If long-rooted
varieties are chosen, then the soil must be worked down to a depth of eighteen inches, surely.
The shorter ones will do well in eight inches of well-worked sandy soil. Do not put carrot
seed into freshly manured land. Another point in carrot culture is one concerning the thinning
process. As the little seedlings come up you will doubtless find that they are much, much too
close together. Wait a bit, thin a little at a time, so that young, tiny carrots may be used
on the home table. These are the points to jot down about the culture of carrots. I am saying
very little about depths and distances because these were all worked out by the boys last winter
and tables may be had for the asking.

"Peter covered the ground of celery raising. One or two points only I will speak of. A very
rich, workable soil is a celery soil. In the process of getting such a bed ready it ought to
have a thorough wetting down a day before planting. Celery seed is small, and, as is the case
with other small seed, it is quite likely to be planted in clumps or bunches. To avoid this
the seed should be mixed with sand and then sprinkled in drills. These drills should be six
inches apart, and very shallow. Sow the seed, cover, and water. This bed should be screened
from direct sunlight. A careful, gentle, daily watering is necessary. Thin the little plants
to four inches apart. Peter can tell the rest of the story. The only other thing I need add
is this, that in transplanting the work should be done quickly. One should not take up celery
plants and perhaps leave them a long time before placing in new quarters. Plant immediately.
It takes little to upset a celery plant and check its growth. So never take up a whole lot
of celery plants at one time. Take up a few, keep them moist, plant them, and then start again.

"I am not going to say a word about corn. You all remember the boys' work of last year. Your
teacher has planned next Friday afternoon for the boys to discuss this at school. So we shall
not have our meeting, but I shall come to the school to hear their report. I hope our girls
will take notes on this. For I know that Eloise has decided to raise corn next year; Helena
is going to; and Leston will not be out of the corn contest this season.

"The cucumber is the next vegetable in the line. This is a plant from foreign lands. Some think
that the cucumber is really a native of India. It is believed that it was brought here by the
Negro, and that a species of cucumber from Africa became finally at home in this country. A
light, sandy and rich soil is needed--I mean rich in the sense of richness in organic matter.
When cucumbers are grown outdoors, as we are likely to grow them, they are planted in hills.
Nowadays, they are grown in hothouses; they hang from the roof, and are a wonderful sight.
In the greenhouse a hive of bees is kept so that cross-fertilization may go on.

"But if you intend to raise cucumbers follow these directions: Sow the seed inside, cover with
one inch of rich soil. In a little space of six inches diameter, plant six seeds. Place like
a bean seed with the germinating end in the soil. When all danger of frost is over, each set
of six little plants, soil and all, should be planted in the open. Later, when danger of insect
pests is over, thin out to three plants in a hill. The hills should be about four feet apart
on all sides.

"Egg plant is another vegetable we have not tried. It is another of those which has been improved
by crossing, usually with peppers and tomatoes. But as we are not Burbanks yet, I shall not
talk of that side of egg plant culture. Some varieties of egg plant grow to a large size but
the smaller fruits, on the whole, have the better flavour. A good, well-worked, rich garden
loam is the soil for this vegetable. The seed may be planted out in the open in little drills
six inches apart. The seed should be scattered along as lettuce seed is. When the plants are
about six inches high, transplant them to their permanent place. They should then stand about
two feet apart on all sides. More often the seeds are started inside in March. When the little
plants are about two inches high they should be transplanted into boxes or pots. Screen from
too hot sunshine. About the time of corn planting the plants should go into the open. A rich
soil is now quite necessary. Again I would suggest as a good method the placing of a little
well-rotted manure under each place where an egg plant is to go. There is a rather interesting
parasite which sometimes fastens itself upon the egg plant. A parasite is a form which clings
to another and takes its nourishment from this latter or host. The parasite is a lazy shirk.
So in this case the parasite grows on the egg plant and absorbs the food which the egg plant
needs for itself. This is not an uncommon thing in nature. When such a thing happens first
pull up and destroy the poor egg plant, for the parasite is clinging too closely and persistently
to be removed.

"Nearly everyone in our country clings to lettuce as the only plant for a salad. Over across
the sea in old England this is not so. Other plants are used in this way and called salad plants.
Endive is one of these. Some of the endives are curly-leaved, and when blanched are attractive
to look upon; and surely there is no reason why we should not consider the side of beauty in
vegetables.

"Endive is a very hardy plant. One-half an ounce of the seed will sow one hundred feet of drill.
Sow it as you would lettuce seed in soil which should be moist and rich. The plants finally
should be about eight inches apart in the drill. The outer leaves should be tied over the top
in order to blanch the inner ones for table use. In the fall the plants from summer sowings
may be taken up with balls of earth on the roots and placed in the coldframes ready for use
through the winter. The coldframe is a blessing. It is a place of storage all the fall and
early winter. It is a place for early work in the late winter and first part of spring.

"Lettuce with children has always been a prime favourite for cultivation. Before the time of
Christ, lettuce was grown and served. There is a wild lettuce from which the cultivated probably
came. There are a number of cultivated vegetables which have wild ancestors, carrots, turnips
and lettuce being the most common among them. Lettuce may be tucked into the garden almost
anywhere. It is surely one of the most decorative of vegetables. The compact head, the green
of the leaves, the beauty of symmetry--all these are charming characteristics of lettuces.

"Not all form heads. There is a mistaken idea abroad among children that by transplanting,
any lettuce can be made to head. Only such varieties as are called heading lettuces will head.
And these must be transplanted in order to have really good heads. There are two general types
of lettuce--the Cos and the cabbage. The cabbage grows more like a cabbage with great tendency
toward heading. The Cos grows longer, narrower, and has spoon-shaped leaves, which have a big,
coarse midrib. The inner leaves cling more closely together after a heading fashion; the outer
leaves spread apart. We grow in our American gardens more of the cabbage type than of the Cos.
Should we go to see our French cousins next summer, the Cos lettuce would be served to us with
plenty of oil as a dressing.

"As the summer advances and as the early sowings of lettuce get old they tend to go to seed.
Don't let them. Pull them up. None of us are likely to go into the seed-producing side of lettuce.
What we are interested in is the raising of tender lettuce all the season. To have such lettuce
in mid and late summer is possible only by frequent plantings of seed. If seed is planted every
ten days or two weeks all summer, you can have tender lettuce all the season. When lettuce
gets old it becomes bitter and tough.

"Melons are most interesting to experiment with. We suppose that melons originally came from
Asia, and parts of Africa. Watermelons grow wild in Africa. The Negroes and wild animals feed
upon them. Perhaps that is the reason why the coloured people so love them. Anyway, melons
belong to these countries. Melons are a summer fruit. Over in England we find the muskmelons
often grown under glass in hothouses. The vines are trained upward rather than allowed to lie
prone. As the melons grow large in the hot, dry atmosphere, just the sort which is right for
their growth, they become too heavy for the vine to hold up. So they are held by little bags
of netting, just like a tennis net in size of mesh. The bags are supported on nails or pegs.
It is a very pretty sight I can assure you. Over here usually we raise our melons outdoors.
They are planted in hills. Eight seeds are placed two inches apart and an inch deep. The hills
should have a four foot sweep on all sides; the watermelon hills ought to have an allowance
of eight to ten feet. Make the soil for these hills very rich. As the little plants get sizeable--say
about four inches in height--reduce the number of plants to two in a hill. Always in such work
choose the very sturdiest plants to keep. Cut the others down close to or a little below the
surface of the ground. Pulling up plants is a shocking way to get rid of them. I say shocking
because the pull is likely to disturb the roots of the two remaining plants. When the melon
plant has reached a length of a foot, pinch off the end of it. This pinch means this to the
plant: just stop growing long, take time now to grow branches. Sand or lime sprinkled about
the hills tends to keep bugs away.

"Onions are about as popular a vegetable as we have. Some people are quite scornful of onions
because of their truly disagreeable odour. But I do not know what we should do without the
onion for flavourings. Peter is to plant onions where he last had celery. That is very wise,
because onions do especially well coming after a crop for which the land was heavily fertilized.
Onions like moisture of soil, too. If the soil is not rich enough, nitrate of soda may be added.
The most discouraging thing about chemical fertilizers is the fact that advertisements say
to have a certain quantity for an acre of land. Few boys and girls are planting entire acres,
to just one thing. Now, suppose you write down this: Add 1/4 pound of nitrate of soda to 100
square feet of land then use the proper fractional amount. To buy 1/40 of a pound for example
sounds absurd. Buy your quarter pound and put the approximate amount on. Sprinkle chemical
fertilizer over the surface of the soil and rake it in just under the surface.

"There are two methods for the planting of onions. One way is to use seed; the other, sets.
Sets mean little onion bulbs. These are placed in drills about six inches apart and so that
the little bulb may be just beneath the surface of the soil. Do not set too low. These bulbs
are ready before seed onions. Seeds are rather slow in development. If you make sowings pretty
thick the tender tops may be used, and so the thinning process is done to advantage.

"I believe that all your gardens should have some parsley in them. It can be planted as a border,
since it grows low and has a fringy, decorative effect. If you were Italian girls and boys
you would have parsley if you had nothing else; for the Italians always use it in their soups.
There is a European variety, not as pretty as the common variety, which grows taller and ranker.
It has a stronger smell. An Italian boy who was living in America had a garden in which he
grew both kinds of parsley. He was asked which he liked the better. Straightening up, he pointed
to the European saying, 'Smells stronger.'

''I believe none of us have raised parsnips. It takes 1/4 of an ounce of seed to plant 100
feet of drill. Any deep, rich, moist garden soil will do. Just as early as the ground is workable,
the seed should be sown. Sow in drills of 1/2 inch depth and 6 inches apart. The plants should
finally stand about eight inches apart. They may be dug before or after frost. Some people
think that the early frosts improve the flavour of parsnips.

"I suppose there is no vegetable so well liked as peas. Who would wish a Fourth of July dinner
without peas? The early varieties of peas go into the ground just as early as possible. I like
best to dig trenches six inches deep and about eighteen inches apart. As the peas are dropped
into the trench, cover over with about two inches of soil. As the plants grow, fill soil into
the trench. Of course, peas have to be brushed. So as soon as the little runners form put brush
behind the plant and start the twiners about the brush stalks. A variety of pea called Gradus
is very excellent in flavour.

"As for potatoes--well, now, just see Peter grin! He has covered that subject. Of course, I
can add nothing to an expert's advice.

"Peppers are worth trying. If you do not care for them in your home gardens, add them to the
school garden. They work in with the courses in cooking. Just as egg plants are started inside,
so ought peppers to be. Whenever the soil is warm and the weather settled, the pepper plants
may go out. The best soil for them is a rich, sandy one. The little plants should have about
one and a half foot of space on all sides. At first they look pretty lonesome so far apart
but soon they will grow to large, bushy plants. A little hen manure mixed with soil and put
on top of the ground about the little peppers gives them a good start in their new quarters.
There are many interesting kinds of peppers to grow. If a pepper with a little sting is wished
try such varieties as Bird's Eye, Red Cluster, and Tobasco. Suppose the peppers are to be used
for stuffing. Then large, rather more mild-flavoured kinds are needed. Ruby King pepper is
a bouncing beauty. The Red Etna, Improved Bull Nose and Golden King are other good ones.

"The word pumpkin stands for good, old-fashioned pies, for Thanksgiving, for grandmother's
house. It really brings more to mind than the word squash. I suppose the squash is a bit more
useful, when we think of the fine Hubbard, and the nice little crooked-necked summer squashes;
but after all, I like to have more pumpkins. And as for Jack-o'-lanterns--why they positively
demand pumpkins. In planting these, the same general directions hold good which were given
for melons. And use these same for squash-planting, too. But do not plant the two cousins together,
for they have a tendency to run together. Plant the pumpkins in between the hills of corn and
let the squashes go in some other part of the garden.

"We have very nearly worn out the subject of radish. About the only cultural point I would
add is this: Make radish develop quickly. If growth is slow, the radish is likely to be poor.
Sometimes all the growth goes to top. Fine, green leaves result, but no good radishes. Then
doctor the soil in order that fruit development may be quickened. Radishes are the quickest
in maturing of all vegetables. That is why your teacher had radish beds for the lower grades
in the school. The children got a result and got it quickly. Josephine might have raised radishes
as well as parsley in the box garden she had. People in cities could raise these two vegetables
on their roofs just as well as not. They are worth the effort it takes in trying.

"There is one point I wish to speak of in tomato culture. The great trouble in cultivating
comes in the overgrowth of vines. Each plant becomes a large, overgrown, unwieldy sort of affair
unless looked out for. Use a stake for each vine. Tie the main stalk of the plant to this.
Let the development of fruit come from the top of the plant. So pinch back the lateral branches
and remove these. In this way the tomato garden is a neat and pretty one. This treatment is
similar to that given grapes.

"There is a tomato called the dwarf champion. This is a dwarf variety and so gives less trouble
than the other kinds. It does not get troublesome and often does not need staking. If you were
little boys and girls, I should say plant this kind of tomato every time.

"I have little more to say about turnips. They are an old vegetable, for over two thousand
years ago, the Greeks dined on turnips. I usually plant mine right out in the open. The soil
may be a sandy one.

X

FLOWER CULTURE

In planting the flower garden there are a few things always to be considered. These are matters
of colour, of time and of persistency. "The subject of colour is not so trying, after all,
as many gardeners seem to think. If you people wish to plant a few of a good many gay-blooming
plants, then I guess colour is a problem. The chief thought in a flower garden should be, how
I can make a beautiful picture of this garden of mine. You see right off how tiring and dazzling
the garden of too many little dots of colour could be. Look about in nature--see the beautiful
range of the butterfly weed, the pinky purple of Joe Pye, the scarlet of cardinal flowers,
the blue of certain asters, the pink of bouncing Bet, the yellow of tansy and goldenrod. Nature
is constantly presenting perfect splashes of brilliant colour here and there. And yet it is
not inharmonious. Why? One reason is that much of the colour is in great masses, and what is
not has been softened by stretches of soft green.

"Let us take a hint from this for our small gardens. Plant colours in masses, and have breaks
of green in between. Not a bad idea! I seem to hear you say.

"Then a garden should have a strong time element about it. By this I mean that one should plan
a garden for a round of bloom. Why have all the blooms in August? If you look at this bulb
time-table I shall have ready for you, you will find that it is possible to start with bulbs.
Snowdrops and crocuses will gladly usher in a continuous round of bloom for you. I do not mean
that these two will bloom continuously. Not at all! But I mean they are the starters. There
are conditions, where spring bloom and fall bloom alone is desired. This is the case with all
school gardens where summer care is impossible. Another table called a garden of continuous
bloom will help you plan this.

"Another point to think of is persistency. Why not plant some seed which will produce plants
that come up year after year? Why not have some hardy perennials and some self-sowing annuals?
Poppy and cornflower sow themselves. These are annuals. Think of the perennials, which come
year after year to welcome us. I think you should have hardy matter in your gardens. Peonies
come up year after year, iris takes care of itself, helianthus or perennial sunflower bobs
up each year.

"George asked me one day, what I meant when I spoke of herbaceous plants. A herbaceous plant
is one with a non-woody stem, as geraniums. Mock orange is not herbaceous, because it has a
woody stem. When I speak of hardy plants, I mean those which can stand living outdoors through
their existence, from start to finish. A half-hardy plant is one that requires fostering before
being planted outdoors. We consider asters half-hardy, because they need the extra heat for
start which the nasturtium does not need. You would not think of starting nasturtiums indoors.
But asters and stock really need this sort of a start in life.

"The tall flowers must go toward the back of the garden, for if they were placed in the foreground
they would screen the others. The plants of medium height make up the main part of the garden;
while the low plants are in the foreground as borders.

"Perhaps it would be wiser to put some tall perennials or self-sowing annuals in the background,
and among the shrubbery. Then save bed spaces for the annuals. This will cause less disturbance
in the garden than the sowing of annuals in with the perennials.

"I cannot take up all the garden flowers with you, because it is an impossibility. But a certain
number of the more common ones I will talk of.

"There are certain plants rather easier to grow than others, and very satisfactory in results.
One of these all-around plants is the pansy. It likes best of all cool, moist places but it
will do well, under rather reverse conditions. Pansies are the easiest of plants to grow from
seed, and they offer a ready response to experiments with cross-fertilization. The very best
time to sow plants is after midsummer. Anyway, the work must be done before October the first.
Let us claim then that the middle of August is a good time. Make little drills a quarter of
an inch deep for the seed; or better, sprinkle it on a fine seed bed. Over the seed sift a
little soil. Pansy seed is fine and small, so great care must be taken in the early waterings;
better far to cover the bed with old sacking, and water the sacking. In this way, the seed
is not washed away. The little sturdy plants should be covered over with leaves or straw for
the wintertime. When early spring comes, you will be delighted with plants which are well along.

"Pansy flowers should always be kept well picked. Do not let the seed pods form if you desire
continuous bloom. It is well to hold this in mind--that if plants are hurried along too fast,
the flowers suffer in size. Small, inferior flowers result from such treatment. Pansies have
a habit of running out--that is, the flowers grow smaller each year. It is merely a warning
to keep making new sowings in order that one may always have large, vigorous blooms.

"Choice seed of this flower is very expensive. It is a plant that some florists have put all
their time upon. It has seemed to certain men that one of the greatest things in the world,
is to find out ways of improving the plants of the earth. So certain fruits are crossed to
make new and better ones; and certain flowers are being constantly worked over to get superior
strains. Sweet peas, pansies, stock, and dahlias are plants which have been much improved by
man's skill.

"Larkspur is one of those plants which children so rarely try. I have wondered often why. It
is not hard to raise, and so I am hoping that some of you will try it another season. The larkspur
is a hardy plant, and there are both annuals and perennials in this family. Some varieties
are dwarfed, and grow only a foot and a half high, while others grow five feet in height. This
latter growth is very charming in the background of the garden. The flower spikes are showy
and the foliage pretty. The larkspur likes a pretty rich sort of soil. The seed is very slow
in germinating, and that is reason enough for fall planting. The stay over winter gives these
fussy seeds time to make up their minds to germinate. This sowing should be done after the
middle of October.

"Really charming blue flowers are a bit difficult to find because we have fewer blue flowers
than those of the reds and yellows. Do not get the impression that larkspurs are only blue
in colour. There are yellow, pink, red, and white varieties. But the blue is very fine. So
when you are thinking of high flowers for backgrounds, keep the larkspur in mind.

"Hollyhock is another good background plant, because of its height and sentinel-like effect.
It sows itself, so will take care of itself. Perennial phlox is well to put into the garden.
Helianthus, I have mentioned, as suitable for backgrounds. It has a rather bad habit of too
free spreading.

"Peonies are very satisfactory. I am sure you will all want some of them. They look their best
planted in clumps. A certain pink and white peony is called the rose peony. It is sweet scented,
and when in blossom it scents the portion of the yard where it is placed. These look well planted
in wide borders. The roots, or bulbs, should go about three inches below ground in nice, rich,
garden soil. Do not plant where they get the full blaze of early sun.

"I'd put some iris in the border, too. It requires no care. You need not bed it over, even,
in the fall. It likes a certain amount of moisture, but grows readily under almost all conditions.
The German iris is an easy grower; the French fleur-de-lis is lovely with its more delicate
blossom. Certain irises, to be sure, are particular about their quarters, but the two kinds
mentioned are not. They like a certain amount of open space. Do not hide them in the shrubbery,
although they may be planted near it.

"You might put in some hardy chrysanthemums. These need good rich garden soil. They should
also be placed near the back of the garden for good effect. You may choose almost any colour
in these. Some of the little button chrysanthemums are good for backgrounds. The yellow ones
make good splashes of colour, while the dull reds are most beautiful. These bloom after frost.
When the frost has made havoc with the foliage, cut the plant down to about one inch of the
ground. It is well to cut the flowers before frost.

"You have now a few good background plants which are hardy.

"The biennials can be so planted as to behave like perennials. These plants, you remember,
are doing their best blossoming work the second summer. So by yearly sowings you may always
have good effects. I have mentioned some already for your garden:--Canterbury bell, cornflower
and foxglove are biennials. Cornflower tends to self sow, but needs help in this work from
you. Sweet William is an old favourite. Of course, it is pretty gaudy. But I like old sweet
William in spite of his gay tendency. They are rather stiff, but so easy to raise, being not
very particular about anything.

"When it comes to annuals there is a multitude of these to plant each season. There are candytuft
and alyssum for borders. Then mignonette is absolutely necessary to keep the garden sweet.
Coreopsis is easy to raise, and so is godetia. If a great big bold mass of colour is desired,
put in Shirley poppies. These grow well even on sandy soil. It is well to remember, that these
do not lend themselves kindly to transplanting.

"Suppose there is a bit of sandy ground which needs a low-growing plant. Put in this spot portulaca.
The bright little blossoms, constantly blooming, add a bit of cheer to that old sandy place.

"There are the old stand-bys which are good bloomers--nasturtiums, zinnias, marigolds and petunias.
In the case of zinnia, it is better to buy these seeds by the ounce. Children's penny packages
and the regular five-cent packages are filled usually with seeds which produce variously coloured
blossoms. One can plan for no good effects in this way. If you get a seed catalogue, and look
through the zinnia list, you can choose just what you like.

"Certain plants are spoken of as plants for bedding. These plants are placed in a formal bed
after the spring flowers have finished their blooming. You sometimes see in the park fine beds
of tulips and hyacinths early in the season. After these have finished their blooming, plants
which are all started are put in their bed. If seeds were planted they would take so long to
develop that the bed would look bad for a long time. So bedding plants are put in. Geraniums
are the most popular of all. Begonias, fuchsias, heliotrope and coleus are often used. Geraniums
will stand almost any kind of soil, and therefore have great advantages over most plants. Begonias
will flourish in the shade; while the strong point about coleus is that of beauty of foliage.

"To those of you who have started outdoor bulb beds, the bedding list will be of some service.
Marguerites look well in such a bed. Often one sees a border of ageratum about such a one.
There is always a sort of stiff effect about such borders, however. A canna bed is after the
same order, yet is effective. Salvia, or scarlet sage, looks well in wide borders, or near
the underpinning of the house. Both these may act as bedding plants.

"There are three other kinds of gardens I should like to bring to your minds--the rock garden,
the herb garden and the wild-flower garden. This last we shall have to leave for another time,
however.

"Whenever a rockery is mentioned to some people they shrug their shoulders, and murmur something
about a mere heap of rocks. Now, a rock garden may be very pretty, or very ugly. Such a garden
should never be stuck out in the front yard to hit one in the face. But if you have a place
in your yard, which is near the woods or in the vicinity of trees, or by a rocky ledge--in
short, if you have any place with a bit of wildness surrounding it, use this for a rockery.
If your yard is just a plain, tame, civilized yard, you'd better leave the rock garden out.
I know of a lady living in a city, whose backyard is a rocky ledge. That ledge itself told
her what her garden ought to be. It just cried out to her, 'Build a rock garden on me.' And
she did it. Any other kind of a garden would have been out of place and taste there. Wherever
a rocky ledge is found, there is a possibility for a rock garden.

"To have a good garden of this sort, one must have earth as well as rocks. Earth must be put
into all the crevices of rock, so that there is some depth to it, and at such an angle that
it won't be washed out by hard rains. A rock garden should have an earth foundation. I mean
that there must be much of earth about it. I saw a charming one, which had only climbing nasturtiums
planted over it. It was a great rock jutting out, and extending back into the yard--a big,
flat, irregular affair--and all over it were these running vines. It was very simple and very
effective. Go to the woods and seek out ferns which are growing in rocky places. Take what
little earth they have about them, and try to give them a similar position in your own rockery.
Bring back some leaf mould from the woods, and mix the garden soil for the rockery. Candytuft,
dwarf phlox, stonecrop, morning glory, saxifrage, bleeding heart, rock cress, myrtle, thrift,
columbine, bell flower, and moss pink. Get some moss, too, for chinks between rocks.

"If we could go back to old colonial days, and visit a dame's garden, I am sure we should find
a little herb garden there. Our mothers might call these herbs pot herbs. Here all the flavourings
for the soups were raised. Here sweet lavender might be found, its flowers used to make fragrant
the bed linen. Horehound, anise and others were used in medicines; while little caraway seeds
made delicious the cakes and cookies. I can see bunches of dried sage hung in the attic.

"Even with us there might be good use made of this garden both at home and at school. We do,
of course, grow parsley, which is an herb, but the others seem to have dropped out of our gardens.
We might at least grow next summer the sage and savoury for the turkey stuffing.

"Herbs need a sandy, well-worked soil. Seed should be sown in drills about twelve inches apart.
The seed should be sown in early spring, as soon as the ground is warm. Sprinkle the seed just
below the surface, and cover lightly with soil.

"A list of common herbs includes the following: Anise, balm, basil, borage, caraway, catnip,
coriander, dill, fennel, horehound, hop, hyssop, lavender, pot marigold, sweet and pot marjoram,
parsley, pennyroyal, rosemary, rue, sage, savoury, tansy, sorrel, thyme, and wormwood. It would
be of little use to plant all of these, even to see what the plants were like. I would suggest
your trying lavender, sage, savoury, and dill.

"Lavender seed is very slow to germinate, so sow the seed plentifully in early spring. The
soil should have a dusting of lime over it as lavender plants enjoy lime. The flower is the
part you wish. Pick these flower stalks before the flowers get old. Dry, and then sprinkle
the dried flowers in the linen chest. Lavender is very sweet, and is often spoken of as sweet
lavender. To this day one will hear women singing in the streets of London, 'Sweet lavender,
buy my sweet lavender.'

"Sage likes a good, well-drained soil. It, too, likes lime. The little seedlings should be
thinned out to stand about ten inches apart. When you see flowers forming cut the sage plant
and quickly dry. It makes a pretty border plant in the garden. Savoury is also a border plant.
But this is a hardy annual, while lavender and sage are perennials. It likes a light but rich
soil. Both the leaves and flowers are used in soup flavouring. "Dill is also sown in early
spring. It is the seed of the dill plant, and not the leaves and flowers, which is the useful
part. The seeds are used in the making of pickles.

"I shall hope to see something in the herb line, in your gardens next year--a hardy garden
started, and a good bit of taste displayed by all of you. You girls might raise mint to put
in lemonade.

"Next time we shall have our talk on wild flowers. Some of you know and love many of these
wild flowers."

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       ANNUALS  FOR  SANDY  SOILS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Clarkia      Rose      June    1-1/2 ft.  Good  to  use for a border
                White     Oct.                 plant.
                Purple                       Use single varieties.

   Poppy        White     July    1-1/2 ft.  Do not transplant. Fine for
                Red       Aug.                 mass effects.

   Nasturtium   Yellow    June               Most satisfactory, especially
                to Maroon Oct.    1-5 ft.      for  cut  flowers. Blooms
                                              freely.

   Portulaca    White     June    1/2 ft.    Blooms freely -- grows close
                Red                            to the ground.
                Yellow

   Zinnia       Red       June    1-1/2 ft.  Grows  without  great  care.
                Magenta   Frost               Blooms freely.   Looks best
                                              when massed.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       ANNUALS FOR HEAVY SOILS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Godetia      Red       July    1-2 ft.    Easy to grow. An English
                White     Oct.                favourite: blooms freely.

   Sweet Pea    Variety   July    4-6 ft.    Plant early in the spring in
                         Oct.                 a sunny spot. Keep flowers
                                              well clipped for constant
                                              bloom.

   Petunia      Magenta   May     1-2 ft.    Mass or use in borders. Give
                                              plenty of sun. Good for
                                              the outdoor window box.

   Sweet        White    July    1/2 ft.    Sow thickly in the borders.
    Alyssum              Sept.                Blooms freely. Grows in
                                              every soil.

   Pot          Orange    June    1-1/2 ft.  Blooms freely. Looks well
    Marigold    Yellow    Frost               in masses. Stiff effect as a
                                              cut flower.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                SEVEN FAVOURITE ANNUALS FOR CUT FLOWERS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Sweet        White     July     1/2 ft.   Use in low bowls for table
    Alyssum     Red       Sept.               decorations.

   China Aster  White     July     1 ft.     Lasts long after cutting.
                Blue     to  Oct.
                Purple

   Baby's       White     June     2-3 ft.   Use in bouquets with other
    Breath      Rose      Oct.                flowers.

   Coreopsis    Yellow    June     1-2 ft.   Place by themselves in tall
                Brown     Nov.                 vases.

   Nasturtium   Scarlet   June     1-5 ft.   Cut freely for constant
                Yellow    Oct.                bloom. Use in great
                                              masses in low vases.

   Pansy        Purple    May     1/2-1 ft.  Cut closely. Place in low
                Blue      June                dishes.
                Yellow
                White

   Pink         White     May      1 ft.     Lasts well after cutting.
                Maroon    Aug.
                Rose
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     ANNUALS THAT BLOOM AFTER FROST
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Sweet Alyssum White    July     1/2 ft.  Withstands   early   frosts.
                          Sept.              Good border plant.

   Candytuft     Red     June to   1/2 ft.  Sow at intervals through
                 White    Sept.              the summer.   Good cut
                                             flower.

   Cornflower    Rose     June     2-3 ft.  Good for cut flowers.
                 Blue                        Blooms freely.
                 White

   Marigold      Yellow   June     1/2 - 2  Better for garden effects
                 Browns   Aug.      ft.      than for cut flowers.

   Annual Phlox  Yellow   May      1/2 - 1  Self sows.  Good all round
                 Reds     Aug.      ft.      plant.
                 White

   Ten-weeks     White    June     1 1/2    A second sowing made in
      stock      Purple   July      ft.      May flowers the same
                 Pink                        season.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             FRAGRANT ANNUALS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Mignonette    Green    May      1 ft.    Beautifully fragrant. Do
                          Oct.               not transplant. Good to use
                                             as a break for
                                             clashing colours.

   Sweet Peas    White    July     4-6 ft.  Free bloomer. Try variety
                 Scarlet  Oct.               Lathyrus odorata.
                 Blue
                 Yellow

   Ten- weeks    Pink     June     1 ft.    Good for cut flowers.
      stock      Purple   July               Fragrant at night.
                 White

   Sweet Sultan  White    June     2 ft.    Centaurea moschata good
                 Yellow   Aug.               for cut flowers.
                 Purple

   Sweet Alyssum White    July     1/2 ft.  Alyssum maritimun. Low
                          Sept.               growing, border plant.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       ANNUALS THAT RE-SOW THEMSELVES
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Morning glory Reds     July   15-30 ft.  Grows rapidly. Makes a
                 Blues    Oct                good screen.
                 Whites

   Poppy         Pink     June   1/2-2 ft.  Papaver Rhocas and P.
                 Scarlet  Sept.              somniferum.
                 White

   Phlox         Yellow   May    l/2-1 ft.  Phlox Drummondii.
                 Reds     Aug.               Need much water.
                 White

   Pot Marigold  Orange   June   1-2 ft.   Calendula officinalis
                 Yellow   Oct.                Likes a warm soil.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         ANNUALS THAT CLIMB
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Balloon Vine  White    Aug.     10 ft.   Grows rapidly. Good screen.

   Japanese Hop  Incon-   July    8-20 ft.  Rapid grower.  Looks well
                 spicuous Oct.               growing along old fences.

   Moon-flower   White    July   15-30 ft.  Night bloomer. Grows
                          Sept.              rapidly.

   Morning Glory Purple   June     20 ft.   Rapid grower. Good
                 White    Aug.               screen.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        ANNUALS FOR SHADY PLACES
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Godetia      White     July    1-2 ft.   The flowers are showy.
                Red      to Oct.

   Musk         Yellow    June    1/2-1 ft. Need moisture and coolness.
                         to Aug

   Nemophila    Blue      June    1-3 ft.   Moisture, partial shade and
                White    to Oct.             coolness.

   Pansy        White     May     1/2-1 ft. Sow under same conditions
                Yellow   to Oct.             as musk in early spring.
                Purple                       Blooms freely in the fall.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         ANNUALS FOR SUNNY PLACES
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Balsam       Red     June to  1-2 ft.    Plant in rich sandy loam
                Yellow    Oct.               under direct rays of sun.
                White

   Cornflower   Blue    May to    2 ft.     Full flower. Resows itself
                         Sept.

   Cosmos       White   July to   4 ft.     Overrich soil retards
                Pink      Sept.              bloom.
                Crimson

   Gaillardia   Red     July to   3 ft.     Good cut flower. Blossoms
                Yellow    Oct.               freely.

   Marigold,   Yellow   July to   3 ft.     Blooms profusely; stiff
    African              Frost               flower head.

   Nasturtium  Yellow   June to  1-5 ft.    Both dwarf and tall varieties
               Scarlet   Oct.                are rapid growers
                                             and free bloomers.

   Rose moss   White     June  1/2-3/4 ft.  Portulaca grandiflora.
               Magenta   Aug.                Plant in position direct
                                             sunshine.

   Verbena     Various  July to   2 ft.    Start inside for early
                         Sept.              bloom.

   Wallflower  Orange    June    1-1/2 ft. Sown in Sept.  blooms in
                         July               May.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       ANNUALS FOR ROCKY PLACES
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Phlox       Red      June to 1-1-1/2 ft. Variety Phlox    Drumondii
               White     Oct.                Duration of
                                             bloom depends on richness
                                             of soil.

   Candytuft   Red       May  1/2-1-1/2 ft. Plant in the fall and cover
               White     Frost               for early spring bloom.

   Clarkia     Purple    June    1-1/2 ft.  Use Clarkia   elegans.
               Red       Oct.                Thrives in both sun and
               White                         partial shade.

   Nasturtium  Reds      June     1 ft.     Tropoeolum minor; blooms
     (Dwarf)   Yellows   Oct.                very early.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          FRAGRANT PERENNIALS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Winter      Lilac      Dec.     1 ft.    Blooms outdoors in winter.
    Heliotrope            Feb.               Flowers small.

   Russian     Violet     March    1/2 ft.  Double flowers. Hardy.
    Violets

   Lily-of-    White      May      3/4 ft.  Plant by middle of March
    the-Valley                               for that season's bloom.
                                             Needs part shade.
                                             Spreads.

   Valerian    Pinkish    June     3 ft.    Finely cut foliage. Easy
                                             to grow.

   Lemon Lily  Yellow     June     2 ft.    Flowers 4 in. long. Tubers
                                             which multiply rapidly.

   Fringed Pink Lilac     July     1 ft.    Blooms until autumn if
                                             prevented from seeding.

   Bee Balm    Scarlet    July     2 ft.    Odour of mint. Good for
                          Aug.               mass effects.

   White Day   White      Aug.     2 ft.    Lilies 4-6 in. long. Fine,
     Lily                 Sept.              broad-leaved foliage.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      PERENNIALS FOR CUT FLOWERS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Christmas Rose White    Nov.    1/2 ft.  Blooms outdoors in the
                           Feb.              snow. No fragrance.
                                             Charming in masses.

   California     Violet   March   1/2 ft.  Large flowers but single.
    Violets                                  Fragrant.

   Foxglove       Purple   June    3-4 ft.  Large flowers, long stems.
   Oriental       Blue     June    2-3 ft.   Beautiful colour, long
    Larkspur      White                      stems. Let no flowers
                                             go to seed.

   Japan Iris     Variety  July    3-4 ft.  Short lived when cut.
                    of                       Fine blooms.

   Japan Anemone  Pink     Sept.   3 ft.    Finest September flower.
                  White                      Plant in spring. Plant
                                             for afternoon sun.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         TALL  PERENNIALS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Hollyhock    Variety   July      6 ft.   Single varieties are the
                  of                         hardier; double varieties
                                             last longer.

   Plume Poppy  Pinkish   July      6 ft.   Spreads rapidly. Fine for
                                             massing and screening.
                                             Do not plant on the
                                             west as it shuts off sun.

   Golden Glow  Yellow    Aug.      6 ft.   Multiplies rapidly. Fine
                                             bloomer. Liable to pest
                                             lice. Spray with soap
                                             solution.

   Double       Yellow    Aug.      5 ft.   Largest double flower of
    Sunflower                                any perennial. Likely
                                             to run out unless divided

   Late         Yellow    Sept.   10-12 ft. Tallest of perennials;
    Sunflower                                blooms till October.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       LOW  GROWING PERENNIALS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Crested       Blue    April      9 in.   Earliest of iris. Good for
   Dwarf Iris                                edgings. Plant the
                                             middle of March.

   Dwarf Flag    Purple  April      9 in.   Increases rapidly. Large
                                             flowers. Good colouring

   English       Pink    April      6 in.   Good for spring budding
     Daisy       White                       purposes.

   Tufted        Blue     June      6 in.   More but smaller flowers
    Pansies or   Yellow                      than pansies. After
    Violets      White                       July cut back, manure
                                             and they will bloom
                                             again in September.

   Carpathian    Blue     July      8 in.   Bloom for 6 weeks. Easy
     Harebell                                to grow.

   Coral Bells   Red      Aug.     12 in.   Grow in sandy, well-drained
                                             soil. Coral red
                                             flowers.

   Popp-mallow   Crimson  Sept.     9 in.   Blooms nearly 12 weeks.
                                             Colour does not harmonize
                                             with others.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     PERENNIALS OF MEDIUM HEIGHT
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME      COLOUR    TIME     HEIGHT           SPECIAL POINTS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Bleeding     Pink      May     1-1/2 ft. Long lived and long of
    Heart                                    bloom. Graceful.

   European     Crimson   May       3 ft.   Earliest of peonies. Poor
    Peony       White                        appearance in the fall.

   Sweet        Red       June     12 in.   Self sows. Flowers at their
    William     Pink                         best the second year.
                White

   Chinese      Crimson   June   2-1/2 ft.  Long-lived. Very
    Peony       Pink                         satisfactory. Plant
                White                        in September.

   Foxglove     Purple    June  3-3-1/4 ft. Spire-like cluster
                White                        of flowers.

   Oriental     Blue      June    2-3 ft.   Best blue perennial. Cut
    Larkspur                                 flower spikes as soon as
                                             they fade.

   Oriental    Red        June     3 ft.    Self sows. Flowers 6 in.
    Poppy                                    across.

   Gaillardia  Red        June     1 ft.    Flowers more freely than
               Yellow     Nov.               any other perennial.
                                             Cover plants after
                                             ground freezes.

   Late Phlox     All best Aug.  1-1/2 ft.  Fragrant in the evening.
                   Blue    Sept.             Many colours of bloom.
                   and
                  Yellow

   Hardy          Blue     Sept.   3ft.    Long season of bloom.
   Chrysanthemum  Scarlet  Nov.             Deep rich soil and sunny
                                            exposure for best results.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

XI

THE WILD-FLOWER GARDEN

"A wild-flower garden has a most attractive sound. One thinks of long tramps in the woods,
collecting material, and then of the fun in fixing up a real for sure wild garden.

"If the wild garden is to be a school affair, then I certainly should plant the different kinds
of flowers together. The north corner near the building is a suitable place. But if the garden
is to be at home--your own private little garden--I am inclined to think it would be better
to plant the wild flowers here and there among the cultivated ones.

"A wild-flower garden is a joy each year, because up it comes without constant replanting of
seed. It is a hardy garden. As Nature often covers her wood-flowers over with leaves preparatory
to winter, so you might copy her and do the same.

"Many people say they have no luck at all with such a garden. It is not a question of luck,
but a question of understanding, for wild flowers are like people and each has its personality.
What a plant has been accustomed to in Nature it desires always. In fact, when removed from
its own sort of living conditions, it sickens and dies. That is enough to tell us that we should
copy Nature herself. Suppose you are hunting wild flowers. As you choose certain flowers from
the woods, notice the soil they are in, the place, conditions, the surroundings, and the neighbours.

"Suppose you find dog-tooth violets and wind-flowers growing near together. Then place them
so in your own new garden. Suppose you find a certain violet enjoying an open situation; then
it should always have the same. You see the point, do you not? If you wish wild flowers to
grow in a tame garden make them feel at home. Cheat them into almost believing that they are
still in their native haunts.

"Wild flowers ought to be transplanted after blossoming time is over. Take a trowel and a basket
into the woods with you. As you take up a few, a columbine, or a hepatica, be sure to take
with the roots some of the plant's own soil, which must be packed about it when replanted.

"The bed into which these plants are to go should be prepared carefully before this trip of
yours. Surely you do not wish to bring those plants back to wait over a day or night before
planting. They should go into new quarters at once. The bed needs soil from the woods, deep
and rich and full of leaf mold. The under drainage system should be excellent. Then plants
are not to go into water-logged ground. Some people think that all wood plants should have
a soil saturated with water. But the woods themselves are not water-logged. It may be that
you will need to dig your garden up very deeply and put some stone in the bottom. Over this
the top soil should go. And on top, where the top soil once was, put a new layer of the rich
soil you brought from the woods.

"Before planting water the soil well. Then as you make places for the plants put into each
hole some of the soil which belongs to the plant which is to be put there.

"I think it would be a rather nice plan to have a wild-flower garden giving a succession of
bloom from early spring to late fall; so let us start off with March, the hepatica, spring
beauty and saxifrage. Then comes April bearing in its arms the beautiful columbine, the tiny
bluets and wild geranium. For May there are the dog-tooth violet and the wood anemone, false
Solomon's seal, Jack-in-the-pulpit, wake robin, bloodroot and violets. June will give the bellflower,
mullein, bee balm and foxglove. I would choose the gay butterfly weed for July. Let turtle
head, aster, Joe Pye weed, and Queen Anne's lace make the rest of the season brilliant until frost.

"Let us have a bit about the likes and dislikes of these plants. After you are once started
you'll keep on adding to this wild-flower list.

"There is no one who doesn't love the hepatica. Before the spring has really decided to come,
this little flower pokes its head up and puts all else to shame. Tucked under a covering of
dry leaves the blossoms wait for a ray of warm sunshine to bring them out. The last year's
leaves stay on through the winter brooding over the little fresh sprouts. These embryo flowers
are further protected by a fuzzy covering. This reminds one of a similar protective covering
which new fern leaves have. In the spring a hepatica plant wastes no time on getting a new
suit of leaves. It makes its old ones do until the blossom has had its day. Then the new leaves,
started to be sure before this, have a chance. These delayed, are ready to help out next season.
You will find hepaticas growing in clusters, sort of family groups. They are likely to be found
in rather open places in the woods. The soil is found to be rich and loose. So these should
go only in partly shaded places and under good soil conditions. If planted with other woods
specimens give them the benefit of a rather exposed position, that they may catch the early
spring sunshine. I should cover hepaticas over with a light litter of leaves in the fall. During
the last days of February, unless the weather is extreme take this leaf covering away. You'll
find the hepatica blossoms all ready to poke up their heads.

"The spring beauty hardly allows the hepatica to get ahead of her. With a white flower which
has dainty tracings of pink, a thin, wiry stem, and narrow, grass-like leaves, this spring
flower cannot be mistaken. You will find spring beauties growing in great patches in rather
open places. Plant a number of the roots and allow the sun good opportunity to get at them.
For this plant loves the sun.

"The other March flower mentioned is the saxifrage. This belongs in quite a different sort
of environment. It is a plant which grows in dry and rocky places. Often one will find it in
chinks of rock. There is an old tale to the effect that the saxifrage roots twine about rocks
and work their way into them so that the rock itself splits. Anyway, it is a rock garden plant.
I have found it in dry, sandy places right on the borders of a big rock. It has white flower
clusters borne on hairy stems.

"The columbine is another plant that is quite likely to be found in rocky places. Standing
below a ledge and looking up, one sees nestled here and there in rocky crevices one plant or
more of columbine. The nodding red heads bob on wiry, slender stems. The roots do not strike
deeply into the soil; in fact, often the soil hardly covers them. Now, just because the columbine
has little soil, it does not signify that it is indifferent to the soil conditions. For it
always has lived, and always should live, under good drainage conditions. I wonder if it has
struck you, how really hygienic plants are? Plenty of fresh air, proper drainage, and good
food are fundamentals with plants.

"It is evident from study of these plants how easy it is to find out what plants like. After
studying their feelings, then do not make the mistake of huddling them all together under poor
drainage conditions.

"I always have a feeling of personal affection for the bluets. When they come I always feel
that now things are beginning to settle down outdoors. They start with rich, lovely, little
delicate blue blossoms. As June gets hotter and hotter their colour fades a bit, until at times
they look quite worn and white. Some people call them Quaker ladies, others innocence. Under
any name they are charming. They grow in colonies, sometimes in sunny fields, sometimes by
the road-side. From this we learn that they are more particular about the open sunlight than
about the soil.

"If you desire a flower to pick and use for bouquets, then the wild geranium is not your flower.
It droops very quickly after picking and almost immediately drops its petals. But the purplish
flowers are showy, and the leaves, while rather coarse, are deeply cut. This latter effect
gives a certain boldness to the plant that is rather attractive. The plant is found in rather
moist, partly shaded portions of the woods. I like this plant in the garden. It adds good colour
and permanent colour as long as blooming time lasts, since there is no object in picking it.

"I suppose little children would not have a perfect spring without the dog's tooth violet.
The leaves are attractive and almost make the beauty of a bouquet. It is sometimes called trout
lily. The mottled effect of the leaves accounts for the trout part of the name, and as for
lily, it is a lily, and never belonged to the violet family at all. Dig the plant up, and the
bulbous root tells the story. It really does belong to the lily family. The nodding yellow
flower is pretty, too. These, when picked, last a long time in water. They like to grow in
the neighbourhood of the brook. A moist, half-shaded half-open piece of land is their delight,
and therefore in many gardens the trout lily might have to be left out.

"There is a sweet little flower called the wood anemone, or wind-flower. It is another modest
little flower, white in colour. The constant nodding of the petals stirred by even a breath
of wind gives it the name of wind-flower. These also grow in colonies. Have you noticed how
social, but clannish, our wild flowers are? Especially is this true of the real woods flowers,
rather than of the wayside flowers. The anemone grows in open places by the woods or the hillside.
They are a sort of border plant evidently trying to leave the woods, but still bound to it.

"If in your yard there happens to be a big old fatherly tree or a decaying stump, plant wind-flowers
all about it. You may make the flowers feel that they are on the edge of the woods.

"While I have numbered bloodroot among May flowers, it often does appear in April, and before
the wood anemone. The silvery, white blossom pushes its head above the leaves in a fine fashion.
They are sensitive flowers, closing partly in cloudy weather, and actually dropping to pieces
in a rainstorm or under severe winds. The leaves are large, rather coarse, but pretty with
their light under surfaces. The stems have tinges of red on them, a dark red sap in the roots.
These roots bleed when disturbed. The Indians used to stain their faces with this orange sap-blood.
You will find bloodroot growing in rich soil either in open woods or on rocky slopes.

"In a nice, rich, moist place put a few Jack-in-the pulpits. This flower is much like a child's
jack-in-the-box. It is so different from most of our plants that it has the effect of the joker
in a pack of cards. Push back the flap over Jack's face and you will see a club like a policeman's
billy. Along this club the inconspicuous flowers are borne. Later, in the fall, the fruit forms,
and inside, instead of rather uninteresting flowers, are bright red berries. So Jack jokes again.

"There is always a great feeling of joy when the first trilliums, or wake robins, appear. Walking
in the deep, moist woods suddenly one sees a mass of big leaves and white flowers. The same
irresistably lovely trilliums have come again. Three big leaves, then a flower stalk shooting
up from the centre of this whorl of leaves, and on top the crowning glory--the three-petaled
trillium flower. A fragrant white or pink form is called the nodding wake robin. These in a
glance tell their wishes. The plant sometimes is nearly two feet high. So a clump of these
could easily go toward the back of the wild-flower garden in shade and moist soil.

"Another wild flower of striking beauty is the May apple or mandrake. It comes very early in
May, often in April. This plant grows to about the same height as the trillium. Only the big
spreading leaves of the mandrake are visible at first sight. Beneath these, and daintily hung
in the junction of the leaf stalks, is the lovely, waxy, white blossom. Late after the fading
of the blossom the fruit appears. So its name of May apple comes from this fruit, which has
a sickly sweet taste. The leaf and stalk part of the May apple are of a poisonous nature. This
flower, too, likes rather low, moist, shaded places.

"The false Solomon's seal is found in woods where moisture is. During June and July this plant
is in blossom. After the white flowers the fruit, or berry, appears. The berry changes from
green, to white, to red. There is a two-leaved Solomon's seal called the false lily-of-the-valley
which is found at this same time. It has usually two little lily-like leaves and a blossom
stalk running up from these. Tiny fragrant flowers are borne on this stalk. These plants grow
in moist woods, also. One might plant these two near together in the garden, for the soil conditions
are the same for both.

"Who would wish a wild-flower garden without violets? The little sweet wood ones, the big horse
shoes, the rare white, and more rare yellow--any and all are worth our while! Violets, at least
the most of them, prefer not to be huddled away. I wonder why, when people think of transplanting
violets, a dull, dark, moist spot immediately comes to mind? Violets like the sun, like good
soil, and plenty of air. Some violets are found in the swamps, but did you happen to notice
what long stems they have? Why? The reason is to raise the lovely flowers into the light. Nothing
could be sweeter or more satisfactory than a violet bed. I rather like violets bedded by themselves.
They fill in corners beautifully. They grow gladly about trees. They adorn borders. You may
cover them, in the fall or not as you like. They are not fussy. Take a north corner at school,
a corner not wholly shaded by any means--fill that in solid with violet plants in the fall.
That corner always will be a thing of real beauty.

"The bellflower coming in May blooms on until September. The flower is blue, purple or violet.
It is a flower found in dry places, on grassy slopes, along hillsides, and is common to most
localities.

"I have a sneaking fondness for mullein. One or two stalks of it give a charming effect in
the garden. Its yellow flowers, its tall flower stalk, the thick, hairy leaves--all these are
its charms. It is said that these same hairy leaves were used as wicks by the ancients. Anyway,
the flowers themselves on the tall stalks that often reach to seven feet, look like gleaming
lights on a torch. The mullein has a simple dignity. It grows in the dry fields and along roadsides.
So you see it is by no means particular about its habitat, its place of abode.

"Another tall plant is the foxglove. The flowers are gathered together in a sort of spike at
the end of the stalk, are large and yellow and really lovely. The plant grows to about four
feet in height. It has a bad habit, this downy false foxglove, of absorbing some of its nourishment
from the roots of plants near which it stands. This plant, too, is fond of dry places.

"A very gay flower, intensely red, is the bee balm. It is an herb, and a perennial. It is often
called Oswego tea, because the Indians are supposed to have used it for tea. Then, again, you
will hear it called Indian's plume. This name seems most suitable. I can just imagine a chief
strutting around with this gay plume on his head. It likes a somewhat secluded, moist, shady,
cool place. I think it would be possible for some of you to make it grow at home. For colour
it would be invaluable. The cardinal flower is the only flower more gaudy in red than this
bee balm.

"When one comes to orange colour the butterfly weed takes the prize. This flower has a variety
of names: it is called pleurisy root, and wind root, and orange root. Would you think that
this gay little beggar was a member of the milkweed family? It is. When seed time comes it
produces a seed pod like unto the milkweed pod only more slender than this. All summer long
the insects hover about it. It is just like a signal to them. "Come over here to me!" it calls
to them all. It is found in dry places, in the fields and pastures, along the dusty road sides,
and by the sooty railroad track it flashes its signal. You can make this plant feel at home
surely. And think of the butterflies that will visit your garden all summer long.

"Then later comes old Joe Pye weed. Joe Pye was an Indian doctor but that doesn't seem to have
anything to do with his weed. Yes, it has its connection. For when old Joe Pye went out on
a case of typhoid fever he carried this plant along; hence, its name. The plant sometimes grows
to ten feet in height. Really the swamp is its home. So if you are to use it at all remember
that it must have this condition of great moisture, even to swampiness. The flower clusters
are of a charming colour, a beautiful dull pink.

"Another inhabitant of wet places is the turtle head. The flower resembles in shape a turtle's
or a snake's head, and so receives both names.

"When it comes to Queen Anne's lace, you say that is a troublesome weed. Yes, it is. But it
is truly beautiful with its lacy flower head. A great bouquet of these on the porch, the dining
table, or the school piano is a real picture. A clump of these in the garden, if held in check,
is simply stunning. How can they be held down? The only way is to let no flower heads go to
seed. The little, clinging, persistent, numerous seeds are seeds of trouble. This lovely bother
grows in any sort of soil.

"There are numbers and numbers of wild flowers I might have suggested. These I have mentioned
were not given for the purpose of a flower guide, but with just one end in view--your understanding
of how to study soil conditions for the work of starting a wild-flower garden.

"If you fear results, take but one or two flowers and study just what you select. Having mastered,
or better, become acquainted with a few, add more another year to your garden. I think you
will love your wild garden best of all before you are through with it. It is a real study,
you see."

XII

LANDSCAPE GARDENING

The subject to-night is a very pretentious one, for no one would expect boys and girls to be
landscape gardeners. But many boys and girls have excellent taste and taste is the foundation
stone of landscape gardening. This work has often been likened to the painting of a picture.
Your art-work teacher has doubtless told you that a good picture should have a point of chief
interest, and the rest of the points simply go to make more beautiful the central idea, or
to form a fine setting for it. Look at that picture over Miriam's head. See that lone pine,
the beautiful curve of the hillside, the scrub undergrowth about the tree, the bit of sky beyond!
As soon as one looks at that picture one's eye rests on the pine, and the other features seem
to appear afterward.

"So in landscape gardening there must be in the gardener's mind a picture of what he desires
the whole to be when he completes his work. Take, for example, your school grounds. You did
a bit of landscape work there, although we never called it that before. The little schoolhouse
itself was our centre of interest. How could we fix up the grounds so that the little building
should have a really attractive setting? That, I believe, was the thought in each of your heads,
although no one of you ever put this into words.

"Notice now with me the good points about that work, and from this study we shall be able to
work out a little theory of landscape gardening.

"First there is a good extent of lawn about the building, the path to the door is slightly
curved and pleasingly so, a fine little maple stands out rather interestingly on the side lawn,
the flower garden has a good mass effect, the screen of poplar trees at the back acts as a
stately rear guard, and the vines over the outbuilding hide what was once a blemish.

"Let us go back to the lawn. A good extent of open lawn space is always beautiful. It is restful.
It adds a feeling of space to even small grounds. So we might generalize and say that it is
well to keep open lawn spaces. If one covers his lawn space with many trees, with little flower
beds here and there, the general effect is choppy and fussy. It is a bit like an over-dressed
person. One's grounds lose all individuality thus treated. A single tree or a small group is
not a bad arrangement on the lawn. Do not centre the tree or trees. Let them drop a bit into
the background. Make a pleasing side feature of them. In choosing trees one must keep in mind
a number of things. You should not choose an overpowering tree; the tree should be one of good
shape, with something interesting about its bark, leaves, flowers or fruit. While the poplar
is a rapid grower, it sheds its leaves early and so is left standing, bare and ugly, before
the fall is old. Mind you, there are places where a row or double row of Lombardy poplars is
very effective. But I think you'll agree with me that one lone poplar is not. The catalpa is
quite lovely by itself. Its leaves are broad, its flowers attractive, the seed pods which cling
to the tree until away into the winter, add a bit of picturesqueness. The bright berries of
the ash, the brilliant foliage of the sugar maple, the blossoms of the tulip tree, the bark
of the white birch, and the leaves of the copper beech--all these are beauty points to consider.

"Place makes a difference in the selection of a tree. Suppose the lower portion of the grounds
is a bit low and moist, then the spot is ideal for a willow. Don't group trees together which
look awkward. I never should have Peter and Myron march together in school. Why? Because they
look wretchedly together. Myron makes Peter look short and Peter causes Myron to look overgrown.
So it is with trees. A long-looking poplar does not go with a nice rather rounded little tulip
tree. A juniper, so neat and prim, would look silly beside a spreading chestnut. One must keep
proportion and suitability in mind.

"I'd never advise the planting of a group of evergreens close to a house, and in the front
yard. The effect is very gloomy indeed. Houses thus surrounded are overcapped by such trees
and are not only gloomy to live in, but truly unhealthful. The chief requisite inside a house
is sunlight and plenty of it.

"There are no shrubs on the school grounds. You had spoken of doing that but bulbs took up
the attention of the girls this fall. And as for you boys--you were attending to your own crops.
Shrubbery is very pleasing if properly placed. It is just the thing to fill in corners near
buildings, to help define the turns in walks, and to use as hedges. Usually one shrub standing
by itself is not nearly so pleasing as one tree by itself. It has a squatty and isolated appearance.
There is a corner close by the school building where shrubs should go. Why? Because the place
looks bare and staring, and the building is very ugly at that point; the shrubs would fill
in the space, and make the building look much better.

"As trees are chosen because of certain good points, so shrubs should be. In a clump I should
wish some which bloomed early, some which bloomed late, some for the beauty of their fall foliage,
some for the colour of their bark and others for the fruit. Some spireas and the forsythia
bloom early. The red bark of the dogwood makes a bit of colour all winter, and the red berries
of the barberry cling to the shrub well into the winter. This list of shrubs which Philip has
made out will be a help to you in this work.

                 PHILIP'S SHRUB TABLE
---------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMON NAME   BOTANICAL NAME    HEIGHT    COLOUR   SPECIAL POINTS
---------------------------------------------------------------------
March
Spice Bush   Benzoin          6-15 ft.   Yellow  Flowers appear
             odoriferum                          before leaves.
                                                   Crimson fruit
                                                   in fall. Aromatic
                                                   odour.
Daphne       Daphne
              Mezereum           4 ft.    Purple  The only hardy deciduous
                                                   daphne. Plant in
                                                   light soil and in
                                                   shade.
April
Barberry     Berberis-         2-4 ft.   Yellow   Prefers dry soil. Berries
             Thunbergii                          all winter.

Golden Bell  Forsythia        5-8 ft.   Yellow   Flowers appear before
             suspensa                            leaves. Hardy; free
                                                    from insects.

May
Red-osier    Cornus           4-8 ft.   White    Red branched. Plant
 Dogwood     stolonifera                         in moist soil.

Japanese Snow  Deutzia        1-3 ft.   White    Very beautiful when
   Flower     gracilis                           flowering. Needs well
                                                   drained soil.

Japanese    Viburnum            8 ft.   White    Not as likely to have
 Snowball   plicatum                             lice as common
                                                   snowball. Larger
                                                   balls.

Lilac       Syringa            15 ft.   Purple   Very fragrant. Will
            vulgaris                             grow anywhere even in
                                                   some shade.

June
Deutzia     Deutzia           1-3 ft.    White    Hardy; flowers showy.
            Lemoinei

Weigela     Diervilla           6 ft.    Pink     May have white or red
            Florida                      White    flowers. Flowers under
                                           Red      trees. Lives where
                                                    other shrubs die.

Spirea      Spiræa              4 ft.   White     Most showy of spireas.
           Van Houttei                            Grows anywhere.

Mock Orange Philadelphus       10 ft.  Varieties  Fragrant;
            Coronarius               of different  makes good screen.
                                         colours.

Smoke Bush   Rhus cotinus     4-10 ft.  Purplish  Hardy. Beautiful all
                                                    summer. Purple colour
                                                    changes to smoke
                                                    colour.
July
Spirea       Spirea              3 ft.    White   Flowers run from white
            Bumalda,                              to deep pink. Late
            var.Anthony                           flowering. Hardy.
             Waterer

Sweet Pepper Clethra          3-10 ft.    White    Moist soil or sandy.
 Bush        alnifolia                             Late blooming;
                                                     fragrant flowers.

August
Althea, Rose  Hibiscus          12 ft.   White to  Very hardy. Plant in
 of Sharon    Syriacus                    purple   any good garden soil.

September
Hardy         Hydrangea          8 ft.    White to  A showy shrub. Flowers
 Hydrangea    paniculata                    pink    remain on all winter.

October
Witch Hazel   Hamamelis        6-20 ft.    Yellow   Grows anywhere. Likes
              Virginiana                            moisture. Fruit
                                                      "explodes."

"Certain shrubs are good to use for hedge purposes. A hedge is rather prettier usually than
a fence. The Californian privet is excellent for this purpose. Osage orange, Japan barberry,
buckthorn, Japan quince, and Van Houtte's spirea are other shrubs which make good hedges.

"You have to remember that not only should grounds look well to the passerby but they should
look equally well from the inside of the building. As your mother is working in the kitchen
during the hot summer or sewing during a long dull winter afternoon, would it not be a joy
to her to look out at a syringa sweet with blossom or a barberry with nodding red berries?
Landscape gardening is not only for the purpose of adding beauty to the earth's surface, but
also for the putting joy into the heart of a person as well.

"I forgot to say that in tree and shrub selection it is usually better to choose those of the
locality one lives in. Unusual and foreign plants do less well, and often harmonize but poorly
with their new setting.

"I spoke of the path to the schoolhouse with its slight curve. Landscape gardening may follow
along very formal lines or along informal lines. The first would have straight paths, straight
rows in stiff beds, everything, as the name tells, perfectly formal. The other method is, of
course, the exact opposite. There are danger points in each.

"The formal arrangement is likely to look too stiff; the informal, too fussy, too wiggly. As
far as paths go, keep this in mind, that a path should always lead somewhere. That is its business--to
direct one to a definite place. Now, straight, even paths are not unpleasing if the effect
is to be that of a formal garden. The danger in the curved path is an abrupt curve, a whirligig
effect. It is far better for you to stick to straight paths unless you can make a really beautiful
curve. No one can tell you how to do this.

"Garden paths may be of gravel, of dirt, or of grass. One sees grass paths in some very lovely
gardens. I doubt, however, if they would serve as well in your small gardens. Your garden areas
are so limited that they should be re-spaded each season, and the grass paths are a great bother
in this work. Of course, a gravel path makes a fine appearance, but again you may not have
gravel at your command. It is possible for any of you to dig out the path for two feet. Then
put in six inches of stone or clinker. Over this, pack in the dirt, rounding it slightly toward
the centre of the path. There should never be depressions through the central part of paths,
since these form convenient places for water to stand. The under layer of stone makes a natural
drainage system.

"A building often needs the help of vines or flowers or both to tie it to the grounds in such
a way as to form a harmonious whole. Vines lend themselves well to this work. It is better
to plant a perennial vine, and so let it form a permanent part of your landscape scheme. The
Virginia creeper, wistaria, honeysuckle, a climbing rose, the clematis and trumpet vine are
all most satisfactory.

"Just close your eyes and picture a house of natural colour, that mellow gray of the weathered
shingles. Now add to this old house a purple wistaria. Can you see the beauty of it? I shall
not forget soon a rather ugly corner of my childhood home, where the dining room and kitchen
met. Just there climbing over, and falling over a trellis was a trumpet vine. It made beautiful
an awkward angle, an ugly bit of carpenter work.

"Of course, the morning-glory is an annual vine, as is the moon-vine and wild cucumber. Now,
these have their special function. For often, especially in school work, it is necessary to
cover an ugly thing for just a time, until the better things and better times come. The annual
is 'the chap' for this work.

"Along an old fence a hop vine is a thing of beauty. One might try to rival the woods' landscape
work. For often one sees festooned from one rotted tree to another the ampelopsis vine.

"Flowers may well go along the side of the building, or bordering a walk. In general, though,
keep the front lawn space open and unbroken by beds. What lovelier in early spring than a bed
of daffodils close to the house? Hyacinths and tulips, too, form a blaze of glory. These are
little or no bother, and start the spring aright. One may make of some bulbs an exception to
the rule of unbroken front lawn. Snowdrops and crocuses planted through the lawn are beautiful.
They do not disturb the general effect, but just blend with the whole. One expert bulb gardener
says to take a basketful of bulbs in the fall, walk about your grounds, and just drop bulbs
out here and there. Wherever the bulbs drop, plant them. Such small bulbs as those we plant
in lawns should be in groups of four to six. Daffodils may be thus planted, too. You all remember
the grape hyacinths that grow all through Katharine's side yard.

"The place for a flower garden is generally at the side or rear of the house. The backyard
garden is a lovely idea, is it not? Who wishes to leave a beautiful looking front yard, turn
the corner of a house, and find a dump heap? Not I. The flower garden may be laid out formally
in neat little beds, or it may be more of a careless, hit-or-miss sort. Both have their good
points. Great masses of bloom are attractive.

"You should have in mind some notion of the blending of colour. Nature appears not to consider
this at all, and still gets wondrous effects. This is because of the tremendous amount of her
perfect background of green, and the limitlessness of her space, while we are confined at the
best to relatively small areas. So we should endeavour not to blind people's eyes with clashes
of colours which do not at close range blend well. In order to break up extremes of colours
you can always use masses of white flowers, or something like mignonette, which is in effect green.

"The old-fashioned flowers are lovely--sweet William, phlox, old-fashioned pinks, petunia,
verbena, zinnia, marigold, mignonette, and poppy are always dear and sweet. Hollyhocks are
charming. They represent a kind of guard for the garden. Stand this hollyhock phalanx up against
a wall like naughty boys, close to the house, or by an old fence. They are so tall that they
must be in the background. They grace it. Otherwise they would overtop and shadow the other
garden plants. If there is an old ash pile, an old dump or anything else unsightly, plant something
tall before it. Hollyhocks would not do for this, since their foliage is too scanty. Castor
beans are just the thing, however; and sunflowers, the old giant ones, are good, too. A screen
is for screening, so that the foliage is of first consideration.

"A wild-flower garden is a good scheme, too. What is lovelier? Bank in a north corner full
of these. Hepatica, columbines, anenome, bellflower, butterfly weed, turtle head and aster
represent wild flowers which bloom from March through October. I can see that north corner
now. Miriam has planned to have one, and has really done the work this fall.

"The water garden is another good thing to try with just the right setting. A place at the
end of a slope of land, near some drooping trees, a bit shaded would be right. The garden Philip
made is a pattern for you all to follow.

"Finally, let us sum up our landscape lesson. The grounds are a setting for the house or buildings.
Open, free lawn spaces, a tree or a proper group well placed, flowers which do not clutter
up the front yard, groups of shrubbery--these are points to be remembered. The paths should
lead somewhere, and be either straight or well curved. If one starts with a formal garden,
one should not mix the informal with it before the work is done.

"At one time we said a little about poor taste in garden furnishings. Painted kettles, old
drain pipes, whitewashed bricks, and edgings of shells seemed to us then a bit fussy and crude.
So, too, is a summer house stuck out on the front lawn, a rustic seat all by itself in an open
spot, an archway which forms an arch over nothing. The summer house should be placed in the
side yard, or in the rear in a spot where trees lend it a background. If its use is that of
a resting spot for your mother, she certainly would not wish it right out on the front lawn.
If the house is for children to play in, then again it is not for the front of the house. An
appropriate place is near the garden where it makes a cool place to rest after labour, a spot
from which to view the beauties of the garden, and a charming place to serve afternoon tea.

"A good general plan to follow in this landscape work is to see what natural charms your place
has, and then try to increase and help these. 'Help Nature' is a good watchword. Even though
the garden plan is to be a formal one, the natural resources and setting of your place should
be kept in mind. The little we did last year on the school grounds was a bit of landscape garden
work. I did not call it that to you then, for if I had you would have been scared off. Philip's
work in his backyard was of the same nature. The girls' flower garden was a bit of formal work.
I guess, too, the outdoor bulb planting which Albert scorned might come under the same head.
So you see you have been landscape gardeners without knowing it. To continue to be, all we
have to do is to go on somewhat along the general lines I have spoken of to-night. Different
committees have prepared a number of tables which should help you much in matters of selection."

               GARDEN OF CONSTANT BLOOM BY MONTHS
    --------------------------------------------------------------
      NAME       COLOUR    HEIGHT      SPECIAL POINTS
    --------------------------------------------------------------
    March

     Columbine   Red       1 ft.  Grows on rocky places. Graceful
                                   flower.

     Hepatica    White     6 in.  Early spring flower. Ready to blossom
                 Blue              under the snow. Last year's
                 Pink              leaves shelter flower.

     Saxifrage   White     8 in.  Grows in rocky, sandy places.
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
    April

     Bluebell    Blue      16 in. Likes rock soil and sun.

     Dwarf Iris  Blue      1 ft.  A good border plant. Does not
                                   require any special soil. Spreads.

     Moss Pink   Pink      6 in.  Likes full sun. Spreads rapidly.

     Violet      Blue      6 in.  Good soil. Plant in either sun or
                                   shade.
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
    May

    Lily-of-     White     9 in.   Grows under trees, spreads rapidly.
     the-Valley                     Flowers fragrant. Cut flower effect.

    German Iris  Different 2 ft.   The best of flags for general planting
                                    purposes.
    Forget-      Blue      low     Thrives on moist soil. Planted with
     me-not                         tulips follows them in bloom.

    Chinese      Different 4 ft.   The earliest of peonies. Good in
     Peony                          borders.

    Myrtle       Blue      low     Grows even in shade and poorly
                                    drained soils. Spreads rapidly.
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
    June

    Bleeding     Pink      2 ft.   A hardy plant. Needs moist, good
     Heart                          soil. Good border plant.

    Foxglove     Purple    4 ft.   Perennial which self sows. Effective
                                    in backgrounds. Likes shade.

    Garden Peony Crimson   3 ft.   The real old-fashioned peony. Good
                                    border plant. Large blossoms.

    Larkspur     Blue      4 ft.   Good for borders and  backgrounds.
                                    The finest of blue flowers.

    Sweet        Different 2 ft.   A self sewing perennial. Bright
     William                        colours. Good for massing. Sweet
                                    and constant bloomer.
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
    July

    Baby's       White     3 ft.   Grows in rocky soil. Use for formal
     Breath                         bouquets.

    Butterfly    Orange    2 ft.   Likes full sunlight and dry soil. Fine
     Weed                           colour effect.

    Perennial    Different 2-5 ft. Good for borders and cut flowers.
     Phlox
    Spiked       Pink      3 ft.   Belongs in wet swamp lands. Will
     Loosestrife                    grow in borders.

    Hollyhock    Different 6 ft.   Use for backgrounds and borders.

    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
    August

    Aster, New   Blue      4 ft.   Grows in any soil. The best of tall
     England                        asters.

    Golden Glow  Yellow    6 ft.   Grows in any soil and spreads rapidly.
                                    Good background.

    Japanese     White     Climber Rapid flowering vine. Use on trellis.
     Clematis                       Sweet flowers.

    Sunflower    Yellow    6 ft.   Fine for backgrounds and screens.
                                    Any dry soil.

    Turtle Head  Rose      2 ft.   Flowers on spikes. Any soil, but wet
                 Purple             preferred.

