She sat on one of the seaside benches, her hands clasped, her head bent, overwhelmed and frightened
and remorseful. He went on: he recalled the day when first they met; he reminded her of the
many, many ways in which she had led him on to believe that she cared for him; he accused her
of making him love her in order to laugh at him. When he could find nothing more to say, he
flung himself upon the bench,--but on the other end of it,--and crossed his arms, and dropped
his head upon them. So that there were two on the bench, one at either end, and both with their
heads dropped--a pretty picture in the moonlight of a lovers' quarrel. But this was worse than
a lovers' quarrel. It was the end of everything, for the girl was engaged to another man.

She rose. If he had been looking up, he would have seen that there were tears in her eyes and
on her cheek.

"Mr. Fernie," she stammered, timidly, "I suppose there is nothing more to say. I am no doubt
all that you have called me. I am heartless; I have led you on. Well, but I did not know--how
could I tell that you were taking things so seriously? How can you be so angry just because
I can't marry you? One girl is no better than another. There are plenty of girls in the world.
I thought you liked me, and I--but what is the use of talking? I am heartless and cold; I am
treacherous and vain and cruel, and--and--won't you shake hands with me once more, Claude,
before we part?"

"No! I will never shake hands with you again; never--never! By heavens! nothing that could
happen now would ever make me shake hands with you again. I hate you, I loathe you, I shudder
at the sight of you, I could not forgive you--never! You have ruined my life. Shake hands with
you! Who but a heartless and worthless woman could propose such a thing?"

She shivered and shook at his wild words. She could not, as she said, understand the vehemence
of the passion that held the man. He was more than half mad, and she was only half sorry. Forgive
the girl. She was only seventeen, just fresh from her governess. She was quite innocent and
ignorant. She knew nothing about the reality and vehemence of passion; she thought that they
had been very happy together. Claude, to be sure, was ridiculously fond of taking her hand;
once he kissed her head to show the depth of his friendship. He was such a good companion;
they had had such a pleasant time; it was a dreadful pity that he should be so angry. Besides,
it was not as if she liked the other man, who was old and horrid.

"Good-bye, then, Claude," she said. "Perhaps when we meet again you will be more ready to forgive
me. Oh," she laughed, "it is so silly that a man like you--a great, strong, clever, handsome
man--should be so foolish over a girl! Besides, you ought to know that a girl can't have things
her own way always. Good-bye, Claude. Won't you shake hands?" She laid her hand upon his shoulder,--just
touched it,--turned, and fled.

She had not far to go. The villa where she lived was within five minutes' walk. She ran in,
and found her mother alone in the drawing-room.

"My dear," the mother said, irritably, "I wish to goodness you wouldn't run out after dinner.
Where have you been?"

"Only into the garden, and to look at the sea."

"There's Sir William in the dining-room still."

"Let him stay there, mother dear. He'll drink up all the wine and go to sleep, perhaps, and
then we shall be rid of him."

"Go in, Florence, and bring him out. It isn't good for him, at his age, to drink so much."

"Let the servants go," the girl replied, rebellious.

"My dear, your own accepted lover! Have you no right feeling? O Florence! and when I am so
ill, and you know--I told you--"

"A woman should not marry her grandfather. I've had more than enough of him to-day already.
You made me promise to marry him. Until I do marry he may amuse himself. As soon as we are
married, I shall fill up all the decanters, and keep them full, and encourage him to drink
as much as ever he possibly can."

"My dear, are you mad?"

"Oh no! I believe I have only just come to my senses. Mad? No. I have been mad. Now, when it
is too late, I am sane. When it is too late--when I have just understood what I have done."

"Nonsense, child! What do you mean by being too late? Besides, you are doing what every girl
does. You have accepted the hand of an old man who can give you a fine position and a great
income and every kind of luxury. What moree can a girl desire? When I die--you know already--there
will be nothing--nothing at all for you. Marriage is your only chance."

At this moment the door opened, and Sir William himself appeared. He was not, although a man
so rich, and therefore so desirable, quite a nice old man to look at--not quite such an old
man as a girl would fall in love with at first sight; but perhaps under the surface there lay
unsuspected virtues by the dozen. He was short and fat; his hair was white; his face was red;
he had great white eyebrows; he had thick lips; his eyes rolled unsteadily, and his shoulders
lurched; he had taken much more wine than is good for a man of seventy.

He held out both hands and lurched forward. "Florenshe," he said, thickly, "letsh sit down
together somewhere. Letsh talk, my dear."

The girl slipped from the proffered hands and fled from the room.

"Whatsh matter with the girl?" said Sir William.

Out at sea, all by itself, somewhere about thirty miles from a certain good-sized island in
a certain ocean, there lies another little island--an eyot--about a mile long and half a mile
broad. It is a coral islet. The coral reef stretches out all round it, except in one or two
places, where the rock shelves suddenly, making it possible for a ship to anchor there. The
islet is flat, but all round it runs a kind of natural sea-wall, about ten feet high and as
many broad; behind it, on the side which the wall protects from the prevailing wind, is a little
grove of low, stunted trees, the name and kind of which the successive tenants of the island
have never been curious to ascertain. I am therefore unable to tell you what they are. The
area protected by the sea-wall, as low as the sea-level, was covered all over with long, rank
grass. At the north end of the islet a curious round rock, exactly like a martello tower, but
rather higher, rose out of the water, separated from the sea-wall by twenty or thirty feet
of deep water, dark blue, transparent; sometimes rolling and rushing and tearing at the sides
of the rock, sometimes gently lifting the seaweed that clung to the sides. Round the top of
the rock flew, screaming all the year round, the sea-birds. Far away on the horizon, like a
blue cloud, one could see land; it was the larger island, to which this place belonged. At
the south end was a lighthouse, built just like all lighthouses, with low white buildings at
its foot, and a flagstaff, and an enclosure which was a feeble attempt at a flower-garden.
You may see a lighthouse exactly like it at Broadstairs. In fact, it is a British lighthouse.
Half a mile from the lighthouse, where the sea-wall broadened into a wide, level space, there
was a wooden house of four rooms--dining-room, salon, and two bedrooms. It was a low house,
provided with a veranda on either side. The windows had no glass in them, but there were thick
shutters in case of hurricanes. There were doors to the rooms, but they were never shut. Nothing
was shut or locked up or protected. On the inner or land side there was a garden, in which
roses (a small red rose) grew in quantities, and a few English flowers. The elephant-creeper,
with its immense leaves, clambered up the veranda poles and over the roof. There was a small
plot of ground planted pineapples, and a solitary banana-tree stood under the protection of
the house, its leaves blown to shreds, its head bowed down,

Beyond the garden was a collection of three or four huts, where lived the Indian servants and
their families.

The residents of this retreat--this secluded earthly paradise--were these Indian servants with
their wives and children; the three lighthouse men, who messed together; and the captain, governor,
or commander-in-chief, who lived in the house all by himself because he had no wife or family.

Now the remarkable thing about this island is that, although it is so far removed from any
other inhabited place, and although it is so small, the human occupants number many thousands.
With the exception of the people above named, these thousands want nothing: neither the light
of the the day or the warmth of the sun; neither food nor drink. They lie side by oide under
the rank grass, without headstones or even graves to mark their place, without a register or
record of their departure, without even coffins! There they lie,--sailors, soldiers, coolies,
negroes,--forgotten and lost as much as if they had never been born. And if their work lives
after them, nobody knows what that work is. They belong to the vast army of the Anonymous.
Poor Anonymous! They do all the work. They grow our corn and breed our sheep; they make and
mend for us; they build up our lives for us. We never know them, nor thank them, nor think
of them. All over the world, they work for their far-off brethren; and when one dies, we know
not, because another takes his place. And at the last a mound of green grass, or even nothing
but an undistinguished strip of ground!

Here lay, side by side, the Anonymous--thousands of them. Did I say they were forgotten? Not
quite; they are remembered by the two or three Indian women, wives of the Indian servants,
who live there. At sunset they and their children retreat to their huts, and stay in them till
sunrise next morning. They dare not so much as look outside the door, because the place is
crowded with white, shivering, sheeted ghosts! Speak to one of these women; she will point
out to you, trembling, one, two, half a dozen ghosts. It is true that the dull eye of the Englishman
can see nothing. She sees them--distinguishes them one from the other. She can see them every
night; yet she can never overcome her terror. The governor, or captain, or commander-in-chief,
for his part, sees nothing. He sleeps in his house quite alone, with his cat and dog, windows
and doors wide open, and has no fear of any ghosts. If he felt any fear, of course he would
be surrounded and pestered to death every night with multitudes of ghosts; but he fears nothing.
He is a doctor, you see; and no doctor ever yet was afraid of ghosts.

How did they come here--this huge regiment of dead men? In several ways. Cholera accounts for
most, yellow fever for some, other fevers for some, but for the most cholera has been the destroyer.
Because, you see, this is Quarantine Island. If a ship has cholera or any other infectious
disease on board, it cannot touch at the island close by, which is a great place for trade,
and has every year a quantity of ships calling; the infected ship has to betake herself to
Quarantine Island, where her people are landed, and where they stay until she has a clear bill;
and that sometimes is not until the greater part of her people have changed their berths on
board for permanent lodgings ashore. Now you understand. The place is a great cemetery. It
lies under the hot sun of the tropics. The sky is always blue; the sun is always hot. It is
girdled by the sea. It is always silent; for the Indian children do not laugh or shout, and
the Indian women are too much awed by the presence of the dead to wrangle; always silent, save
for the crying of the sea-birds on the rock. There are no letters, no newspapers, no friends,
no duties--none save when a ship puts in; and then, for the doctor, farewell rest, farewell
sleep, until the bill of health is clean. Once a fortnight or so, if the weather permits and
if the communications are open,--that is, if there is no ship there,--a boat arrives from the
big island with rations and letters and supplies. Sometimes a visitor comes, but not often,
because, should an infected ship put in, he would have to stay as long as the ship. A quiet,
peaceful, monotonous life for one who is weary of the world, or for a hermit; and as good as
the top of a pillar for silence and for meditation.

The islet lay all night long in much the same silence which lapped and wrapped it all the day.
The water washed musically upon the shore; the light in the lighthouse flashed at intervals;
there was no other sign of life. Toward six o'clock in the morning the dark east grew gray;
thin, long white rays shot out across the sky, and then the light began to spread. Before the
gray turned to pink or the pink to crimson, before there was any corresponding glow in the
western sky, the man who occupied the bungalow turned out of bed, and came forth to the veranda,
clad in the silk pajamas and silk jacket which formed the evening or dress suit in which he
slept. The increasing light showed that he was a young man still, perhaps about thirty --a
young man with a strong and resolute face and a square forehead. He stood under the veranda
watching, as he had done every day for two years or more. the break of day and the sunrise.
He drank in the delicious breeze, cooled by a thousand miles and more of ocean. No one knows
the freshness and sweetness of the air until he has so stood in the open and watched the dawn
of a day in the tropics. He went back to the house, and came out again clad in a rough suit
of tweeds and a helmet. His servant was waiting for him with his morning tea. He drank it,
and sallied forth. By this time the short-lived splendour of the east was fast broadening to
right and left, until it stretched from pole to a pole. Suddenly the sun leaped up and the
colours fled and the splendour vanished. The sky became all over a deep, clear blue, and round
about the sun was a brightness which no eye but that of the sea-bird can face and live. The
man in the helmet turned to the sea-shore, and walked briskly along the natural mound or sea-wall.
Now and then he stepped down upon the white coral sand, picked up a shell, looked at it, and
threw it away. When he came to the sea-birds' rock, he sat down and watched it. In the deep
water below, sea-snakes, red and purple and green, were playing about; the bluefish, who are
not in the least afraid of the snakes, rolled lazily round and round the rock; in the recesses
lurked unseen the great conger-eel, which dreads nothing but the thing of long and horny tentacles,
the ourite or squid: round and round the rock darted the humourous tazaar, which bites the
bathers in shallow waters all for fun and mischief, and with no desire at all to eat their
flesh; and besides these a thousand curious creatures, which this man, who had trained his
eyes by days and days of watching, came here every day to look at. While he stood there the
sea-birds took no manner of notice of him, flying close about him, lighting on the shore close
at his feet. They were intelligent enough to know that he was only dangerous with a gun in
his hand. Presently he got up and continued his walk. All round the sea-wall of the island
measures about three miles. He took this walk every morning and every evening in the early
cool and the late. The rest of the time he spent indoors.

When he got back it was nearly seven, and the day was growing hot. He took his towels, went
down to the shore, to a place where the coral reef receded, leaving a channel out to the open.
The channel swarmed with sharks, but he bathed there every morning, keeping in the shallow
water while the creatures watched him from the depths beyond with longing eyes. He wore a pair
of slippers on account of the laf, which is a very pretty little fish indeed to look at; but
he lurks in dark places near the shore, and he is too lazy to get out of the way, and if you
put your foot near him he sticks out his dorsal fin, which is prickly and poisoned; and when
a man gets that into the sole of his foot he goes home and cuts his leg off, and has to pretend
that he lost it in action.

When he had bathed, the doctor went back to his house, and performed some simple additions
to his toilet. That is to say, he washed the salt water out of his hair and beard; not much
else. As to collars, neckties, braces, waistcoats, black coats, rings, or any such gewgaws,
they were not wanted on this island. Nor are watches and clocks; the residents go by the sun.
The doctor got up at daybreak, and took his walk, as you have seen, and his bath. He was then
ready for his breakfast, a solid meal, in which fresh fish, newly caught that morning, and
curried chicken, with claret and water, formed the principal part. A cup of coffee came after,
with a cigar and a book on the veranda. By this time the sun was high, and the glare of forenoon
had succeeded the coolness of the dawn. After the cigar the doctor went indoors. The room was
furnished with a few pictures, a large bookcase full of books, chiefly medical, a table covered
with papers, and two or three chairs. No curtains, carpets, or blinds; the doors and windows
wide open to the veranda on both sides.

He sat down and began writing; perhaps he was a novel. I think no one could think of a more
secluded place for writing a novel. Perhaps he was doing something scientific. He continued
writing till past midday. When he felt hungry, he went into the dining-room, took a biscuit
or two, and a glass of vermuth. Then, because it was now the hour for repose, and because the
air outside was hot, and the sea-breeze had dropped to a dead calm, and the sun was like a
red-hot glaring furnace overhead, the doctor kicked off his boots, threw off his coat, lay
down on a grass mat under the mosquito-curtain, and instantly fell fast asleep. About five
o'clock he awoke and got up; the heat of the day was over. He took a long draught of cold tea,
which is the most refreshing and the coolest drink in the world. The sun was now getting low,
and the air was growing cool. He put on his helmet, and set off again to walk round his domain.
This done, he bathed again. Then he went home as the sun sank, and night fell instantly without
the intervention of twilight. They served him dinner, which was like his breakfast but for
the addition of some cutlets. He took his coffee; he took a pipe--two pipes, slowly, with a
book; he took a whisky-and-soda; and he went to bed. I have said that he had no watch; it hung
idly on a nail; therefore he knew not the time, but it would very likely be about half-past
nine. However that might be, he was the last person up in this ghostly Island of the Anonymous
Dead.

This doctor, captain-general, and commandant of Quarantine Island was none other than the young
man who began this history with a row royal and a kingly rage. You think, perhaps, that he
had turned hermit in the bitterness of his wrath, and for the faults of one simple girl had
resolved on the life of a solitary. Nothing of the kind. He was an army doctor, and he left
the service in order to take this very eligible appointment, where one lived free, and could
spend nothing except a little for claret. He proposed to stay there for a few years in order
to make a little money by means of which he might become a specialist. This was his ambition.
As for that love-business seven years past, he had clean forgotten it, girl and all. Perhaps
there had been other tender passages. Shall a man, wasting in despair, die because a girl throws
him over? Never! Let him straightway forget her. Let him tackle his work; let him put off the
business of love--which can always wait--until he can approach it once more in the proper spirit
of illusion, and once more fall to worshipping an angel.

Neither nature nor civilisation ever designed a man's life to be spent in monotony. Most of
us have to work for our daily bread, which is always an episode, and sometimes a pretty dismal
episode, to break and mark the day. One day there came such a break in the monotonous round
of the doctor's life. It came in the shape of a ship. She was a large steamer, and she steamed
slowly.

It was early in the morning, before breakfast. The doctor and one of the lighthouse men stood
on the landing-place watching her.

"She's in quarantine, doctor, sure as sure," said the man. "I wonder what's she's got. Fever,
for choice; cholera, more likely. Well, we take our chance."

"She's been in bad weather," said the doctor, looking at her through his glass. "Look; she's
lost her mizzen, and her bows are stove in. I wonder what's the meaning of it. She's a transport."
She drew nearer. "Troops! Well, I'd rather have soldiers than coolies."

She was a transport. She was full of soldiers, time-expired men and invalids going home. She
was bound from Calcutta to Portsmouth. She had met with a cyclone; driven out of her course
and battered, she was making for the nearest port when cholera broke out on board.

Before nightfall the island was dotted with white tents; a hospital was rigged up with the
help of the ship's spars and canvas. The men were all ashore, and the quarantine doctor, with
the ship's doctor, was hard at work among the cases, and the men were dropping in every direction.

Among the passengers were a dozen ladies and some children. The doctor gave up his house to
them, and retired to a tent or to the lighthouse or anywhere to sleep. Much sleep could not
be expected for some time to come. He saw the boat land with the ladies on board; he took off
his hat as they walked past. There were old ladies, middle-aged ladies, young ladies. Well,
there always is this combination. Then he went on with his work. But he had a curious sensation,
as if something of the past had been revived in his mind. It is, however, not an uncommon feeling.
And one of the ladies changed colour when she saw him.

Then began the struggle for life. No more monotony in Quarantine Island. Right and left, all
day long, the men fell one after the other; day after day more men fell, more men died. The
two doctors quickly organised their staff. The ship's officers became clinical clerks; some
of the ladies became nurses. And the men, the rough soldiers, sat about in their tents with
pale faces, expecting. Of those ladies who worked there was one who never seemed weary, never
wanted rest, never asked for relief. She was at work all day and all night in the hospital;
if she went out, it was only to cheer up the men outside. The doctor was but conscious of her
work and of her presence; he never spoke to her. When he came to the hospital, another nurse
received him; if he passed her, she seemed always to turn away. At a less troubled time he
would have observed this. At times he felt again that odd sensation of a recovered past, but
he regarded it not; he had other things to consider. There is no time more terrible for the
courage of the stoutest man than a time of cholera on board ship or in a little place whence
there is no escape; no time worse for a physician than one when his science is mocked and his
skill avails nothing. Day after day the doctor fought from morning till night, and far on to
the morning again; day after day new graves were dug; day after day the chaplain read over
the new-made graves the service of the dead for the gallant lads who thus died, inglorious,
for their country.

There came a time, at last, when the conqueror seemed tired of conquest; he ceased to strike.
The fury of the disease spent itself; the cases happened singly, one or two a day instead of
ten or twenty. The sick began to recover; they began to look about them. The single cases ceased;
the pestilence was stayed; and they sat down to count the cost. There had been on board the
transport three hundred and seventy-five men, thirty-two officers, a dozen ladies, a few children,
and the ship's crew. Twelve officers, two of the ladies, and a hundred men had perished when
the plague abated.

"One of your nurses is ill, doctor."

"Not cholera, I do hope."

"No; I believe a kind of collapse. She is at the bungalow. I told them I would send you over."

"I will go at once."

He left a few directions, and walked over to the house. It was, he found, the nurse who had
been of all the most useful and the most active. She was now lying hot and feverish, her mind
wandering, inclined to ramble in her talk. He laid his hand upon her temples; he felt her pulse;
he looked upon her face; the odd feeling of something familiar struck him again. "I don't think
it is very much," he said. "A little fever. She may have been in the sun; she has been working
too hard; her strength has given way." He still held her wrist.

"Claude," murmured the sick girl, "you are very cruel. I didn't know--and a girl cannot always
have her own way."

Then he recognised her.

"Good heavens!" he cried, "it is Florence!"

"Not always have her own way," she repeated. "If I could have had my own way, do you think
I would--"

"Florence!" he said again; "and I did not even recognise her. Strange!"

Another of the ladies, the colonel's wife, was standing beside him.

"You know her, doctor?"

"I knew her a long time ago--some years ago --before she married."

"Married? Florence is not married. You must be thinking of some one else."

"No. This is Florence Vernon, is it not? Yes. Then she was formerly engaged to marry a certain
Sir William Duport."

"Oh, I believe there was some talk about an old man who wanted to marry her. But she wouldn't
have him. It was just before her mother died. Did you know her mother?"

"I knew her mother a little when they were living at Eastbourne. So she refused the old man,
did she? and has remained unmarried. Curious! I had almost forgotten her. The sight of her
brings back the old days. Well, after she has pulled so gallantly through the cholera, we cannot
have her beaten by a little fever. Refused the old man, did she?"

In the dead of night he sat watching by the bedside, the colonel's wife with him.

"I had almost forgotten," whispered the lady, "that story of the old baronet. She told me about
it once. Her mother was ill, and anxious about her daughter because she had next to nothing
except an annuity. The old man offered; he was an unpleasant old man, but there was a fine
house and everything. It was all arranged. The girl was quite a child, and understood nothing.
She was to be sold, in fact, to this old person, who ought to have been thinking of his latter
end instead of a pretty girl. Then the mother died suddenly, and the girl broke it off. She
was a clever girl, and she has been teaching. For the last three years she has been in India;
now she is going home under my charge. She is a brave girl, doctor, and a good girl. She has
received half a dozen offers, but she has refused them all; so I think there must be somebody
at home."

"Claude," murmured the girl, wandering, "I never thought you would care so much. If I had thought
so, I would not have encouraged you. Indeed, indeed, I would not. I thought we were only amusing
ourselves."

"Claude is a pretty name. What is your own Christian name, doctor?" asked the colonel's wife,
curiously.

