While the joy-bells of London were already chiming for the coronation of George the Fourth,
the most powerful enemy George's country had ever had was passing quietly away in St. Helena.
On May 5, 1821, the Emperor Napoleon died in his island exile.  No words could exaggerate the
sensation produced through the whole world by the close of this marvellous career.  He was
unquestionably one of the greatest figures in history.  As a conquering soldier he has no rival
in the modern world, and indeed all the history we know of, ancient or modern, can give but
very few names which may bear comparison with his.  Unlike Caesar and Alexander, he had made
his way from the humble obscurity of common life, and, unlike Caesar, he did not seem to have
had in him the intellectual greatness which must have made him, under any conditions, a master
of men and of hemispheres.  So far as mere dramatic effect is concerned, he was less fortunate
than Caesar in his disappearance from the world's stage.  Napoleon was doomed to pine and wither
away on a lonely island in the South Atlantic for years and years, and there was something
like an anticlimax in the closing scenes of that marvellous life-drama.  It is pitiful and
saddening now to read of the trumpery annoyances and humiliations to which his days of exile
were subjected, and to read, too, of the unceasing complaints with which he resented what he
regarded as the insults offered to him by his jailers.  There was, indeed, much that was ignoble
in the manner of his treatment by those who had him in charge, in the paltry indignities which
he had to endure, and which he could not endure in the patient dignity of silence.  The mere
refusal to allow to him his title of Emperor, and to insist {13} that he should only be addressed
as General Bonaparte, was as illogical as it was ungenerous; for if revolutionary France had
not the right to make him an Emperor, she certainly could not have had the right to make him
a General.  Every movement he made and every movement made by any of his friends on the island
was watched as jealously and as closely as if he had been some vulgar Jack Sheppard plotting
with his pals for an escape through the windows or the cellars of his prison.

One cannot but regret that Napoleon could not have folded himself in the majestic mantle of
his dignity and his fame, could not even, if it were needed, have eaten out his own heart in
silence, and left his captors to work their worst upon him without giving them the satisfaction
of extorting a word of querulous remonstrance.  His captors, no doubt, were perpetually haunted
by the dread that he might somehow contrive to make his escape, and that if he once got away
from St. Helena the whole struggle might have to begin all over again.  No doubt, too, his
captors would have said, speaking in the spirit of the times, that Napoleon was not to be trusted
like an honorable prisoner on parole, and that there was no way of securing the peace of the
world but by holding him under close and constant guard.  The whole story of those years of
captivity is profoundly sad, and is one which may probably be read with less pain even by Frenchmen
than by high-minded Englishmen.  There has lately been given to the world in the pages of an
American magazine, The Century, a continuation of the record once made by Dr. Barry E. O'Meara
of his conversations with Napoleon during Napoleon's exile in St. Helena.  Dr. O'Meara was
a surgeon in the English navy, and was serving in the Bellerophon when Napoleon came on board.
He was allowed to take care of Napoleon by the British Government, and, as he was an Irishman,
he felt a certain sympathy with Napoleon and came to be treated by the fallen Emperor as a
friend.  He published a volume called "A Voice from St. Helena," in which he gave a detailed
account of his talks with the great Emperor.  The book was much read {14} at the time of its
publication, and created a deep interest wherever it was read.  From this work O'Meara left
out many of the memoranda he had written down, probably because he thought they might give
offence needlessly to living persons; but the withheld memoranda were all carefully preserved
and passed into the hands of some of his descendants in New Jersey, and have after this long
lapse of time been published at last.  They tell us with painful accuracy of the petty annoyances
constantly inflicted upon Napoleon, and of the impatience and fretfulness with which, day after
day, he resented them and complained of them.  We seem to live with the great dethroned Emperor
in his hours of homeliest complainings, when every little grievance that burns in his heart
finds repeated expression on his lips.  Few chapters in the history of fallen greatness can
be more touching than these pages.

Not all that Napoleon said about England, however, was mere complaint and disparagement.  The
world of London may be interested in learning from these reminiscences how Napoleon told Dr.
Barry O'Meara that if he, Napoleon, had had any authority over the English Metropolis, he would
have long ago taken measures for constructing an embankment on both sides of the Thames as
it passed between Middlesex and Surrey.  If Dr. O'Meara had embodied this suggestion in his
public volume, Napoleon might unconsciously have become the projector of the Thames Embankment.
Fas est ab hoste--the proverb is somewhat musty.

{15}

CHAPTER LXIV.

POPULAR ALARMS--ROYAL EXCURSIONS.

[Sidenote: 1820--The Cato Street conspiracy]

The plot which has been already mentioned as one of the unpropitious events that marked the
opening of George the Fourth's reign was the famous Cato Street conspiracy.  The conspiracy
was nothing less than a plot for the assassination, all at once, of the whole of his Majesty's
ministers.  The principal conspirator was a man named Thistlewood, a compound of half-crazy
fanaticism and desperate villany--a creature who believed that he had private vengeance to
satisfy, and who had, at the same time, persuaded himself that no good could come to the people
of England until an example had been made of the King's official advisers by the avenging hand
of the lover of liberty.  The novelty as well as the audacity of the plot created a perfect
consternation all through England, and it became, for a while, the sincere conviction of a
vast number of reasonable Englishmen that the whole political and social system of the kingdom
was undermined by such plots, and that only the most strenuous exertions made by the champions
of law and order could protect the realm from an outbreak of horrors far transcending any of
those that had convulsed France during the worst days of the Revolution.  It was soon made
clear enough that Thistlewood's plot was a conspiracy which included only a very small number
of men, and it has never been quite certain whether it was not originally put in motion by
the machination of some of the paid spies and informers whom it was believed, at that time,
to be the duty of the Ministry to keep in its service for the detection and the frustration
of revolutionary conspiracy.  It was the common practice of spies and informers, in those days,
to go {16} about secretly in quarters where revolutionary conspiracy was believed to be in
existence, to represent themselves to some of the suspected plotters as fellow-revolutionists
and brother-conspirators, and thus to get into their confidence, and even to suggest to them
some new form of conspiracy, in order that their willingness to accept the suggestion might
mark them out as proper subjects for a Government prosecution and obtain for the informers
the credit of the detection.

[Sidenote: 1820--Origin of the conspiracy]

Thistlewood had been engaged in popular agitation for some sort of reconstitution of political
society, and he had been once put on his trial for some alleged offence arising out of such
an agitation.  More lucky than many other of his contemporaries under similar conditions, he
was brought before a jury who found him not guilty of the charge made against him.  Now, if
Thistlewood had been a sane member of even an Anarchist organization, he might have been softened
in his feelings towards the existing order of things by finding that a jury had actually recognized
the possibility of his being formally charged with an offence against the Crown and yet not
being guilty.  But Thistlewood regarded the bare fact that a charge had been made against him
as a crime calling out for vengeance, and in his frenzy he got the idea into his head that
Lord Sidmouth, the Home Secretary, was the person on whom he was bound to take revenge.  Accordingly,
the unfortunate creature actually sent a challenge to Lord Sidmouth, inviting and defying him
to mortal combat.  Perhaps Lord Sidmouth would have acted wisely if he had taken no notice
whatever of this preposterous challenge, but, at the same time, it is only fair to remember
that Lord Sidmouth might think it dangerous to the public peace to allow a person to go unrebuked
who had sent a challenge to a Minister of the Crown.  Criminal proceedings were, therefore,
taken against Thistlewood, and, instead of being committed to the protection of a lunatic asylum,
the author of the challenge was sentenced to a year's imprisonment.  When his prison time was
over, Thistlewood came out a man inflamed with a desire for vengeance on all the ruling classes
{17} in general, and on Ministers of the Crown in particular.  Like the murderer in "Macbeth,"
he thought himself one whom the vile blows and buffets of the world had so incensed that he
was reckless what he did to spite the world.  He soon got around him a small gang of agitators
as ignorant and almost as crazy as himself, and he initiated them into a grand scheme for dealing
a death-blow to all the ministers at once, and then seizing on the Bank, Mansion House, and
Tower of London, and from these strongholds proclaiming the existence of a provisional government.

Now the whole notion of such a plot as this, and any possible success coming out of it, may
seem, at first sight, too crazy to be accepted by any set of men, however ignorant or however
wicked, who were not downright lunatics.  But it is certain that Thistlewood did find a small
number of men who were not actually lunatics, and who yet were ready to join with him and to
risk their lives in his enterprise.  The first act in the plot was to be the assassination
of the King's ministers.  One of the professional spies in the employment of the authorities,
a man named Edwards, was already in communication with Thistlewood and his friends.  The plot
had been for a considerable time in preparation, and it was put off for a while because of
the death of George the Third, and the hopes entertained by the conspirators that the new King
might go back to the political principles of his earlier years, discard Lord Liverpool, Lord
Sidmouth, and his other Tory advisers, and thus render it unnecessary for patriotic men to
put them to death in order to save the country.

