A soft day under the rain. All goes well in our melancholy woods. In various parts of the neighbourhood
there has been a terrible cannonade.

Received your letters of the 4th and 6th. They brought me happiness: they are the true joy
of life. I am glad you visited C----. I hope to write to you at greater length. It is not that
I have less leisure than usual, but I am going through a time when I am less sensible to the
beauty of things. I long for true wisdom. . . .

December 12, 7 o'clock.

To-day, in spite of the changing beauty of sun and rain, I did not feel alive to Nature. Yet
never was there such grace and goodness in the skies.

The landscape, with the little bridge and the man on horseback of which I have told you, softened
under the splendour of the clouds. It told me of fairness that never fails; of the greenness
of ivy and the redness of autumn, the rigidity of winter in the branches;--and then I understood
that an instant of such contemplation is the whole of life, the very reward of existence, beside
which all human expectation is nothing but a bad dream.

Sunday, December 13.

. . . After a refreshing night I walked to-day in these woods where for three months the dead
have strewn the ground. To-day the vanishing autumn displayed its richness, and the same beauty
of mossy trunks spoke to me, as it did yesterday, of eternal joy.

I am sure it needs an enormous effort to feel all this, but it must be felt if we are to understand
how little the general harmony is disturbed by that which intolerably assails our emotions.

We must feel that all human uprooting is only a little thing, and what is truly ourselves is
the life of the soul.

December 14 (splendid weather, with all the calm returned).

We are still here in the region of the first line, but in a place where we can lift our heads
and behold the charm of my Meusian hills, clearing in the delicate weather.

Above the village and the orchards I see the lines of birches and firs. Some have their skeletons
coloured with a diaphanous violet marked with white. Others build up the horizon with stronger
lines.

I have been strengthened by the splendid lesson given me by a beautiful tree during a march.
Ah, dear mother, we may all disappear and Nature will remain, and the gift I had from her of
a moment of herself is enough to justify a whole existence. That tree was like a soldier.

You would not believe how much harm has been done to the forests about here: it is not so much
the machine-guns as the frightful amount of cutting necessary for making our shelters and for
our fuel. Ah well, in the midst of this devastation something told me that there will always
be beauty, in man and in tree.

For man also gives this lesson, though in him it is less easily distinguished: it is a fine
thing to see the splendid vitality of all this youth, whose force no harvest can diminish.

December 15, morning.

I have had your dear letter of the 9th, in which you speak of our home. It makes me happy to
feel how fine and strong is the force of life which soon adjusts itself to each separation
and uprooting. It makes me happy, too, to think that my letters find an echo in your heart.
Sometimes I was afraid of boring you, because though our life is so fine in many ways, it is
certainly very primitive, and there are not many salient things to relate.

If only I could follow my calling of painter I could have recourse to these wonderful visions
that lie before me, and I could find vent for all the pent-up artist's emotion that is within
me. As it is, in trying to speak of the sky, the tree, the hill, or the horizon, I cannot use
words as subtle as they, and the infinite variety of these things can only be named in the
same general terms, which I am afraid of constantly repeating. . . .

December 15.

One must adapt oneself to this special kind of life, which is indigent as far as intellectual
activity goes, but marvellously rich in emotion. I suppose that in troubled times for many
centuries there have been men who, weary of luxury, have sought in the peace of the cloister
the contemplation of eternal things; contemplation threatened by the crowd, but a refuge even
so. And so I think our life is like that of the monks of old, who were military too, and more
apt at fighting than I could ever be. Among them, those who willed could know the joy which
I now find.

To-day I have a touching letter from Madame M----, whose spirit I love and admire.

Changeable but very beautiful weather.

It is impossible to say more than we have already said about the attitude we must adopt in
regard to events. The important thing is to put this attitude in practice. It is not easy,
as I have learnt in these last days, though no new difficulty had arisen to impede my path
towards wisdom.

. . . Tormenting anxiety can sometimes be mistaken for an alert conscience.

December 16.

Yesterday in our shelter I got out your little album--very much damaged, alas--and I tried
to copy some of the lines of the landscape. I was stopped by the cold, and I was returning
dissatisfied when I suddenly had the idea of making one of my friends sit for me. How can I
tell you what a joy it was to get a good result! I believe that my little pencil proved entirely
successful. The sketch has been sent away in a letter to some friend of his. It was such a
true joy to me to feel I had not lost my faculty.

December 17 (in a new billet).

. . . Last night we left behind all that was familiar when we came out of the first-line trenches
after three days of perfect peace there. We were told off to the billet which we occupied on
October 6th and 7th. One can feel in the air the wind of change. I don't know what may come,
but the serenity of the weather to-day seems an augury of happiness.

These have been days of marvellous scenes, which I can appreciate better now than during those
few days of discouragement, which came because I allowed myself to reckon things according
to our miserable human standards.

I write to you by a window from which I watch the sunset. You see that goodness is everywhere
for us.

3 o'clock.

. . . I take up this letter once more in the twilight of an exceptional winter: the day fades
away as calmly as it came. I am watching the women washing clothes under the lines of trees
on the river bank; there is peace everywhere--I think even in our hearts. Night falls. . . .

December 19 (in a billet).

A sweet day, ending here round the table. Quiet, drawing, music. I can think with calm of the
length of the days to come when I realise how swift have been these days that are past. Half
the month is gone, and Christmas comes in the midst of war. The only thing for me is to adapt
myself entirely to these conditions of existence, and, owing to my union with you, to gain
a degree of acceptance which is of an order higher than human courage.

December 21, morning.

MY VERY DEAR MOTHER,--I have told you freely in my letters of my happiness; but the rock ahead
of happiness is that poor humanity is in perpetual fear of losing it. In spite of all experience,
we do not realise that in the eternal scheme of things a new happiness always grows at the
side of an old one.

For myself, I have not to look for a new one. I have only to try to reconcile two wisdoms.
One, which is human, prompts me to cultivate my happiness, but the other teaches me that human
happiness is a most perishable flower.

We may say: Let us make use of the joys chosen by an upright conscience; but let us never forget
how swiftly these pass.

Yes, the Holy Scriptures contain the finest and most poetical philosophy. I think they owe
it to their affiliation to the oldest philosophies. There are many disputable things in Edouard
Schuré, but what remains is the divination which made him climb through all doctrine to the
infinitely distant Source of human wisdom.

Do you know that those touching traditions of the Good Shepherd and the Divine Mother, so happily
employed in our Christian religions, are the creations of the oldest symbolism? The Greeks
derived them from their own spiritual ancestors; with them the good shepherd was called Hermes,
the god of the migration of souls. In the same way, the type of our Madonna is the great Demeter,
the mother who bears an infant in her arms.

One feels that all religions, as they succeeded each other, transmitted the same body of symbols,
renewed each time by humanity's perpetually-young spirit of poetry.

December 23 (in the dark).

I had begun this letter yesterday, when I was forced to leave off. It was then splendid weather,
which has lasted fairly well. But we are now back again in our first lines. This time we are
occupying the village itself, our pretty Corot village of two months ago. But our outpost is
situated in a house where we are obliged to show no sign of life, so as to conceal our presence
from the enemy. And so here we are at nine o'clock in the morning, in a darkness that would
make it seem to be late on Christmas eve.

Your dear letter lately received has given me great joy. It is true that Grace and Inspiration
are two names for the same thing.

If you are going to see the pictures of the great poet Gustave Moreau, you will see a panel
called La vie de l'humanité (I believe). It consists of nine sections in three divisions, called
l'Age d'or, l'Age d'argent, l'Age de fer. Above is a pediment from which Christ presides over
this human panorama. But this is where this great genius has the same intuition as you had:
each of the three parts bears the name of a hero--Adam, Orpheus, and Cain, and each one represents
three periods. Now, the periods of the golden age are called Ecstasy, Prayer, and Sleep, while
the periods of the silver age are called Inspiration, Song, and Tears.

Ecstasy is the same as Grace, because the picture shows Adam and Eve in the purity of their
souls, in a scene of flowers, and in the enjoyment of divine contemplation. The harmony of
Nature itself urges them on in their impulse towards God.

In the silver age, Inspiration is still Grace, but just beginning to be complicated by human
artifice. The poet Orpheus perpetually contemplates God, but the Muse is always at his elbow,
the symbol of human art is already born; and that great human manifestation of God, Song, brings
with it grief and tears.

Following out the cycle and coming to human evil, Gustave Moreau shows the iron age--Cain condemned
to labour and sorrow.

This work shows that the divine moment may be seized, but is fugitive and can never remain
with man. It explains our failures. People say that the picture is too literary, but it touches
the heart of those who wish to break through the ice with which all human expression is chilled.

Undoubtedly Rembrandt was the Poet of genius par excellence, at the same time as he was pure
Painter. But let us grant that ours is a less rich time, our temperaments less universal; and
let us recognise the beauty of Gustave Moreau's poem, of which, in two words, you expressed
the spirit.

YOUR SON.

December 24, morning.

Our first day in the outpost passed away in the calm of a country awaiting snow. It came in
the night.

In the back gardens, which lie in sight of the Germans, I went out to see it, where it emphasised
and ennobled the least of things. Then I came back to my candle, and I write on a table where
my neighbour is grating chocolate. So that is war.

