Now, {24} therefore, it shall not be amiss, first, to weight this latter sort of poetry by
his WORKS, and then by his PARTS; and if in neither of these anatomies he be commendable, I
hope we shall receive a more favourable sentence.  This purifying of wit, this enriching of
memory, enabling of judgment, and enlarging of conceit, which commonly we call learning under
what name soever it come forth, or to what immediate end soever it be directed; the final end
is, to lead and draw us to as high a perfection as our degenerate souls, made worse by, their
clay lodgings, {25} can be capable of. This, according to the inclination of man, bred many
formed impressions; for some that thought this felicity principally to be gotten by knowledge,
and no knowledge to be so high or heavenly as to be acquainted with the stars, gave themselves
to astronomy; others, persuading themselves to be demi-gods, if they knew the causes of things,
became natural and supernatural philosophers. Some an admirable delight drew to music, and
some the certainty of demonstrations to the mathematics; but all, one and other, having this
scope to know, and by knowledge to lift up the mind from the dungeon of the body to the enjoying
his own divine essence.  But when, by the balance of experience, it was found that the astronomer,
looking to the stars, might fall in a ditch; that the enquiring philosopher might be blind
in himself; and the mathematician might draw forth a straight line with a crooked heart; then
lo! did proof, the over-ruler of opinions, make manifest that all these are but serving sciences,
which, as they have a private end in themselves, so yet are they all directed to the highest
end of the mistress knowledge, by the Greeks called [Greek text], which stands, as I think,
in the knowledge of a man's self; in the ethic and politic consideration, with the end of well
doing, and not of well knowing only; even as the saddler's next end is to make a good saddle,
but his farther end to serve a nobler faculty, which is horsemanship; so the horseman's to
soldiery; and the soldier not only to have the skill, but to perform the practice of a soldier.
So that the ending end of all earthly learning being virtuous action, those skills that most
serve to bring forth that have a most just title to be princes over all the rest; wherein,
if we can show it rightly, the poet is worthy to have it before any other competitors. {26}

Among {27} whom principally to challenge it, step forth the moral philosophers; whom, methinks,
I see coming toward me with a sullen gravity (as though they could not abide vice by daylight),
rudely clothed, for to witness outwardly their contempt of outward things, with books in their
hands against glory, whereto they set their names; sophistically speaking against subtlety,
and angry with any man in whom they see the foul fault of anger.  These men, casting largesses
as they go, of definitions, divisions, and distinctions, with a scornful interrogative do soberly
ask:  Whether it be possible to find any path so ready to lead a man to virtue, as that which
teacheth what virtue is; and teacheth it not only by delivering forth his very being, his causes
and effects; but also by making known his enemy, vice, which must be destroyed; and his cumbersome
servant, passion, which must be mastered, by showing the generalities that contain it, and
the specialities that are derived from it; lastly, by plain setting down how it extends itself
out of the limits of a man's own little world, to the government of families, and maintaining
of public societies?

The historian {28} scarcely gives leisure to the moralist to say so much, but that he (laden
with old mouse-eaten records, authorizing {29} himself, for the most part, upon other histories,
whose greatest authorities are built upon the notable foundation of hearsay, having much ado
to accord differing writers, and to pick truth out of partiality; better acquainted with a
thousand years ago than with the present age, and yet better knowing how this world goes than
how his own wit runs; curious for antiquities, and inquisitive of novelties, a wonder to young
folks, and a tyrant in table-talk) denieth, in a great chafe, that any man for teaching of
virtue and virtuous actions, is comparable to him.  I am "Testis temporum, lux veritatis, vita
memoriae, magistra vitae, nuncia vetustatis." {30}  The philosopher, saith he, teacheth a disputative
virtue, but I do an active; his virtue is excellent in the dangerless academy of Plato, but
mine showeth forth her honourable face in the battles of Marathon, Pharsalia, Poictiers, and
Agincourt:  he teacheth virtue by certain abstract considerations; but I only bid you follow
the footing of them that have gone before you:  old-aged experience goeth beyond the fine-witted
philosopher; but I give the experience of many ages.  Lastly, if he make the song book, I put
the learner's hand to the lute; and if he be the guide, I am the light.  Then would he allege
you innumerable examples, confirming story by stories, how much the wisest senators and princes
have been directed by the credit of history, as Brutus, Alphonsus of Aragon (and who not? if
need be).  At length, the long line of their disputation makes a point in this, that the one
giveth the precept, and the other the example.

Now {31} whom shall we find, since the question standeth for the highest form in the school
of learning, to be moderator?  Truly, as me seemeth, the poet; and if not a moderator, even
the man that ought to carry the title from them both, and much more from all other serving
sciences.  Therefore compare we the poet with the historian, and with the moral philosopher;
and if he go beyond them both, no other human skill can match him; for as for the Divine, with
all reverence, he is ever to be excepted, not only for having his scope as far beyond any of
these, as eternity exceedeth a moment, but even for passing each of these in themselves; and
for the lawyer, though "Jus" be the daughter of Justice, the chief of virtues, yet because
he seeks to make men good rather "formidine poenae" than "virtutis amore," or, to say righter,
doth not endeavour to make men good, but that their evil hurt not others, having no care, so
he be a good citizen, how bad a man he be: therefore, as our wickedness maketh him necessary,
and necessity maketh him honourable, so is he not in the deepest truth to stand in rank with
these, who all endeavour to take naughtiness away, and plant goodness even in the secretest
cabinet of our souls.  And these four are all that any way deal in the consideration of men's
manners, which being the supreme knowledge, they that best breed it deserve the best commendation.

The philosopher, therefore, and the historian are they which would win the goal, the one by
precept, the other by example; but both, not having both, do both halt.  For the philosopher,
setting down with thorny arguments the bare rule, is so hard of utterance, and so misty to
be conceived, that one that hath no other guide but him shall wade in him until he be old,
before he shall find sufficient cause to be honest.  For his knowledge standeth so upon the
abstract and general, that happy is that man who may understand him, and more happy that can
apply what he doth understand.  On the other side the historian, wanting the precept, is so
tied, not to what should be, but to what is; to the particular truth of things, and not to
the general reason of things; that his example draweth no necessary consequence, and therefore
a less fruitful doctrine.

Now {32} doth the peerless poet perform both; for whatsoever the philosopher saith should be
done, he giveth a perfect picture of it, by some one by whom he pre-supposeth it was done,
so as he coupleth the general notion with the particular example.  A perfect picture, I say;
for he yieldeth to the powers of the mind an image of that whereof the philosopher bestoweth
but a wordish description, which doth neither strike, pierce, nor possess the sight of the
soul, so much as that other doth.  For as, in outward things, to a man that had never seen
an elephant, or a rhinoceros, who should tell him most exquisitely all their shape, colour,
bigness, and particular marks? or of a gorgeous palace, an architect, who, declaring the full
beauties, might well make the hearer able to repeat, as it were, by rote, all he had heard,
yet should never satisfy his inward conceit, with being witness to itself of a true living
knowledge; but the same man, as soon as he might see those beasts well painted, or that house
well in model, should straightway grow, without need of any description, to a judicial comprehending
of them; so, no doubt, the philosopher, with his learned definitions, be it of virtue or vices,
matters of public policy or private government, replenisheth the memory with many infallible
grounds of wisdom, which, notwithstanding, lie dark before the imaginative and judging power,
if they be not illuminated or figured forth by the speaking picture of poesy.

Tully taketh much pains, and many times not without poetical help, to make us know the force
love of our country hath in us.  Let us but hear old Anchises, speaking in the midst of Troy's
flames, or see Ulysses, in the fulness of all Calypso's delights, bewail his absence from barren
and beggarly Ithaca.  Anger, the Stoics said, was a short madness; let but Sophocles bring
you Ajax on a stage, killing or whipping sheep and oxen, thinking them the army of Greeks,
with their chieftains Agamemnon and Menelaus; and tell me, if you have not a more familiar
insight into anger, than finding in the schoolmen his genus and difference?  See whether wisdom
and temperance in Ulysses and Diomedes, valour in Achilles, friendship in Nisus and Euryalus,
even to an ignorant man, carry not an apparent shining; and, contrarily, the remorse of conscience
in OEdipus; the soon-repenting pride in Agamemnon; the self-devouring cruelty in his father
Atreus; the violence of ambition in the two Theban brothers; the sour sweetness of revenge
in Medea; and, to fall lower, the Terentian Gnatho, and our Chaucer's Pandar, so expressed,
that we now use their names to signify their trades; and finally, all virtues, vices, and passions
so in their own natural states laid to the view, that we seem not to hear of them, but clearly
to see through them?

But even in the most excellent determination of goodness, what philosopher's counsel can so
readily direct a prince as the feigned Cyrus in Xenophon?  Or a virtuous man in all fortunes,
as AEneas in Virgil?  Or a whole commonwealth, as the way of Sir Thomas More's Utopia?  I say
the way, because where Sir Thomas More erred, it was the fault of the man, and not of the poet;
for that way of patterning a commonwealth was most absolute, though he, perchance, hath not
so absolutely performed it.  For the question is, whether the feigned image of poetry, or the
regular instruction of philosophy, hath the more force in teaching.  Wherein, if the philosophers
have more rightly showed themselves philosophers, than the poets have attained to the high
top of their profession, (as in truth,

"Mediocribus esse poetis Non Di, non homines, non concessere columnae," {33})

it is, I say again, not the fault of the art, but that by few men that art can be accomplished.
Certainly, even our Saviour Christ could as well have given the moral common-places {34} of
uncharitableness and humbleness, as the divine narration of Dives and Lazarus; or of disobedience
and mercy, as the heavenly discourse of the lost child and the gracious father; but that his
thorough searching wisdom knew the estate of Dives burning in hell, and of Lazarus in Abraham's
bosom, would more constantly, as it were, inhabit both the memory and judgment.  Truly, for
myself (me seems), I see before mine eyes the lost child's disdainful prodigality turned to
envy a swine's dinner; which, by the learned divines, are thought not historical acts, but
instructing parables.

For conclusion, I say the philosopher teacheth, but he teacheth obscurely, so as the learned
only can understand him; that is to say, he teacheth them that are already taught.  But the
poet is the food for the tenderest stomachs; the poet is, indeed, the right popular philosopher.
Whereof AEsop's tales give good proof; whose pretty allegories, stealing under the formal tales
of beasts, make many, more beastly than beasts, begin to hear the sound of virtue from those
dumb speakers.

But now may it be alleged, that if this managing of matters be so fit for the imagination,
then must the historian needs surpass, who brings you images of true matters, such as, indeed,
were done, and not such as fantastically or falsely may be suggested to have been done.  Truly,
Aristotle himself, in his Discourse of Poesy, plainly determineth this question, saying, that
poetry is [Greek text], that is to say, it is more philosophical and more ingenious than history.
His reason is, because poesy dealeth with [Greek text], that is to say, with the universal
consideration, and the history [Greek text], the particular.  "Now," saith he, "the universal
weighs what is fit to be said or done, either in likelihood or necessity; which the poesy considereth
in his imposed names; and the particular only marks, whether Alcibiades did, or suffered, this
or that:" thus far Aristotle. {35}  Which reason of his, as all his, is most full of reason.
For, indeed, if the question were, whether it were better to have a particular act truly or
falsely set down? there is no doubt which is to be chosen, no more than whether you had rather
have Vespasian's picture right as he was, or, at the painter's pleasure, nothing resembling?
But if the question be, for your own use and learning, whether it be better to have it set
down as it should be, or as it was? then, certainly, is more doctrinable the feigned Cyrus
in Xenophon, than the true Cyrus in Justin; {36} and the feigned AEneas in Virgil, than the
right AEneas in Dares Phrygius; {37} as to a lady that desired to fashion her countenance to
the best grace, a painter should more benefit her, to portrait a most sweet face, writing Canidia
upon it, than to paint Canidia as she was, who, Horace sweareth, was full ill-favoured.  If
the poet do his part aright, he will show you in Tantalus, Atreus, and such like, nothing that
is not to be shunned; in Cyrus, AEneas, Ulysses, each thing to be followed; where the historian,
bound to tell things as things were, cannot be liberal, without he will be poetical, of a perfect
pattern; but, as in Alexander, or Scipio himself, show doings, some to be liked, some to be
misliked; and then how will you discern what to follow, but by your own discretion, which you
had, without reading Q. Curtius? {38}  And whereas, a man may say, though in universal consideration
of doctrine, the poet prevaileth, yet that the history, in his saying such a thing was done,
doth warrant a man more in that he shall follow; the answer is manifest:  that if he stand
upon that WAS, as if he should argue, because it rained yesterday therefore it should rain
to-day; then, indeed, hath it some advantage to a gross conceit.  But if he know an example
only enforms a conjectured likelihood, and so go by reason, the poet doth so far exceed him,
as he is to frame his example to that which is most reasonable, be it in warlike, politic,
or private matters; where the historian in his bare WAS hath many times that which we call
fortune to overrule the best wisdom.  Many times he must tell events whereof he can yield no
cause; or if he do, it must be poetically.

For, that a feigned example bath as much force to teach as a true example (for as for to move,
it is clear, since the feigned may be tuned to the highest key of passion), let us take one
example wherein an historian and a poet did concur.  Herodotus and Justin do both testify,
that Zopyrus, King Darius's faithful servant, seeing his master long resisted by the rebellious
Babylonians, feigned himself in extreme disgrace of his King; for verifying of which he caused
his own nose and ears to be cut off, and so flying to the Babylonians, was received; and, for
his known valour, so far credited, that he did find means to deliver them over to Darius. Much-like
matters doth Livy record of Tarquinius and his son. Xenophon excellently feigned such another
stratagem, performed by Abradatus in Cyrus's behalf.  Now would I fain know, if occasion be
presented unto you to serve your prince by such an honest dissimulation, why do you not as
well learn it of Xenophon's fiction as of the other's verity? and, truly, so much the better,
as you shall save your nose by the bargain; for Abradatus did not counterfeit so far.  So,
then, the best of the historians is subject to the poet; for, whatsoever action or faction,
whatsoever counsel, policy, or war stratagem the historian is bound to recite, that may the
poet, if he list, with his imitation, make his own, beautifying it both for farther teaching,
and more delighting, as it please him: having all, from Dante's heaven to his hell, under the
authority of his pen.  Which if I be asked, What poets have done so? as I might well name some,
so yet, say I, and say again, I speak of the art, and not of the artificer.

Now, to that which commonly is attributed to the praise of history, in respect of the notable
learning which is got by marking the success, as though therein a man should see virtue exalted,
and vice punished:  truly, that commendation is peculiar to poetry, and far off from history;
for, indeed, poetry ever sets virtue so out in her best colours, making fortune her well-waiting
handmaid, that one must needs be enamoured of her.  Well may you see Ulysses in a storm, and
in other hard plights; but they are but exercises of patience and magnanimity, to make them
shine the more in the near following prosperity.  And, on the contrary part, if evil men come
to the stage, they ever go out (as the tragedy writer answered to one that misliked the show
of such persons) so manacled, as they little animate folks to follow them.  But history being
captive to the truth of a foolish world, in many times a terror from well- doing, and an encouragement
to unbridled wickedness.  For see we not valiant Miltiades rot in his fetters? the just Phocion
and the accomplished Socrates put to death like traitors? the cruel Severus live prosperously?
the excellent Severus miserably murdered?  Sylla and Marius dying in their beds?  Pompey and
Cicero slain then when they would have thought exile a happiness?  See we not virtuous Cato
driven to kill himself, and rebel Caesar so advanced, that his name yet, after sixteen hundred
years, lasteth in the highest honour? And mark but even Caesar's own words of the forenamed
Sylla, (who in that only did honestly, to put down his dishonest tyranny), "literas nescivit:"
as if want of learning caused him to do well.  He meant it not by poetry, which, not content
with earthly plagues, deviseth new punishment in hell for tyrants:  nor yet by philosophy,
which teacheth "occidentes esse:" but, no doubt, by skill in history; for that, indeed, can
afford you Cypselus, Periander, Phalaris, Dionysius, and I know not how many more of the same
kennel, that speed well enough in their abominable injustice of usurpation.

I conclude, therefore, that he excelleth history, not only in furnishing the mind with knowledge,
but in setting it forward to that which deserves to be called and accounted good:  which setting
forward, and moving to well-doing, indeed, setteth the laurel crowns upon the poets as victorious;
not only of the historian, but over the philosopher, howsoever, in teaching, it may be questionable.
For suppose it be granted, that which I suppose, with great reason, may be denied, that the
philosopher, in respect of his methodical proceeding, teach more perfectly than the poet, yet
do I think, that no man is so much [Greek text], as to compare the philosopher in moving with
the poet.  And that moving is of a higher degree than teaching, it may by this appear, that
it is well nigh both the cause and effect of teaching; for who will be taught, if he be not
moved with desire to be taught?  And what so much good doth that teaching bring forth (I speak
still of moral doctrine) as that it moveth one to do that which it doth teach.  For, as Aristotle
saith, it is not [Greek text] but [Greek text] {39} must be the fruit:  and how [Greek text]
can be, without being moved to practise, it is no hard matter to consider.  The philosopher
showeth you the way, he informeth you of the particularities, as well of the tediousness of
the way and of the pleasant lodging you shall have when your journey is ended, as of the many
by-turnings that may divert you from your way; but this is to no man, but to him that will
read him, and read him with attentive, studious painfulness; which constant desire whosoever
hath in him, hath already passed half the hardness of the way, and therefore is beholden to
the philosopher but for the other half.  Nay, truly, learned men have learnedly thought, that
where once reason hath so much over-mastered passion, as that the mind hath a free desire to
do well, the inward light each mind hath in itself is as good as a philosopher's book:  since
in nature we know it is well to do well, and what is well and what is evil, although not in
the words of art which philosophers bestow upon us; for out of natural conceit the philosophers
drew it; but to be moved to do that which we know, or to be moved with desire to know, "hoc
opus, hic labor est."

Now, {40} therein, of all sciences (I speak still of human and according to the human conceit),
is our poet the monarch.  For he doth not only show the way, but giveth so sweet a prospect
into the way, as will entice any man to enter into it; nay, he doth, as if your journey should
lie through a fair vineyard, at the very first give you a cluster of grapes, that full of that
taste you may long to pass farther.  He beginneth not with obscure definitions, which must
blur the margin with interpretations, and load the memory with doubtfulness, but he cometh
to you with words set in delightful proportion, either accompanied with, or prepared for, the
well- enchanting skill of music; and with a tale, forsooth, he cometh unto you with a tale
which holdeth children from play, and old men from the chimney-corner; {41} and, pretending
no more, doth intend the winning of the mind from wickedness to virtue; even as the child is
often brought to take most wholesome things, by hiding them in such other as have a pleasant
taste; which, if one should begin to tell them the nature of the aloes or rhubarbarum they
should receive, would sooner take their physic at their ears than at their mouth; so it is
in men (most of them are childish in the best things, till they be cradled in their graves);
glad they will be to hear the tales of Hercules, Achilles, Cyrus, AEneas; and hearing them,
must needs hear the right description of wisdom, valour, and justice; which, if they had been
barely (that is to say, philosophically) set out, they would swear they be brought to school
again.  That imitation whereof poetry is, hath the most conveniency to nature of all other;
insomuch that, as Aristotle saith, those things which in themselves are horrible, as cruel
battles, unnatural monsters, are made, in poetical imitation, delightful.  Truly, I have known
men, that even with reading Amadis de Gaule, which, God knoweth, wanteth much of a perfect
poesy, have found their hearts moved to the exercise of courtesy, liberality, and especially
courage.  Who readeth AEneas carrying old Anchises on his back, that wisheth not it were his
fortune to perform so excellent an act?  Whom doth not those words of Turnus move (the tale
of Turnus having planted his image in the imagination)

"--fugientem haec terra videbit? Usque adeone mori miserum est?" {42}

Where the philosophers (as they think) scorn to delight, so much they be content little to
move, saving wrangling whether "virtus" be the chief or the only good; whether the contemplative
or the active life do excel; which Plato and Boetius well knew; and therefore made mistress
Philosophy very often borrow the masking raiment of poesy. For even those hard-hearted evil
men, who think virtue a school- name, and know no other good but "indulgere genio," and therefore
despise the austere admonitions of the philosopher, and feel not the inward reason they stand
upon; yet will be content to be delighted, which is all the good-fellow poet seems to promise;
and so steal to see the form of goodness, which seen, they cannot but love, ere themselves
be aware, as if they took a medicine of cherries.

Infinite {43} proofs of the strange effects of this poetical invention might be alleged; only
two shall serve, which are so often remembered, as, I think, all men know them.  The one of
Menenius Agrippa, who, when the whole people of Rome had resolutely divided themselves from
the senate, with apparent show of utter ruin, though he were, for that time, an excellent orator,
came not among them upon trust, either of figurative speeches, or cunning insinuations, and
much less with far-fetched maxims of philosophy, which, especially if they were Platonic, they
must have learned geometry before they could have conceived; but, forsooth, he behaveth himself
like a homely and familiar poet.  He telleth them a tale, that there was a time when all the
parts of the body made a mutinous conspiracy against the belly, which they thought devoured
the fruits of each other's labour; they concluded they would let so unprofitable a spender
starve.  In the end, to be short (for the tale is notorious, and as notorious that it was a
tale), with punishing the belly they plagued themselves.  This, applied by him, wrought such
effect in the people as I never read that only words brought forth; but then so sudden, and
so good an alteration, for upon reasonable conditions a perfect reconcilement ensued.

The other is of Nathan the prophet, who, when the holy David had so far forsaken God, as to
confirm adultery with murder, when he was to do the tenderest office of a friend, in laying
his own shame before his eyes, being sent by God to call again so chosen a servant, how doth
he it? but by telling of a man whose beloved lamb was ungratefully taken from his bosom.  The
application most divinely true, but the discourse itself feigned; which made David (I speak
of the second and instrumental cause) as in a glass see his own filthiness, as that heavenly
psalm of mercy well testifieth.

By these, therefore, examples and reasons, I think it may be manifest that the poet, with that
same hand of delight, doth draw the mind more effectually than any other art doth.  And so
a conclusion not unfitly ensues; that as virtue is the most excellent resting-place for all
worldly learning to make his end of, so poetry, being the most familiar to teach it, and most
princely to move towards it, in the most excellent work is the most excellent workman.

But I am content not only to decipher him by his works (although works in commendation and
dispraise must ever hold a high authority), but more narrowly will examine his parts; so that
(as in a man) though all together may carry a presence full of majesty and beauty perchance
in some one defectious {44} piece we may find blemish.

Now, {45} in his parts, kinds, or species, as you list to term them, it is to be noted that
some poesies have coupled together two or three kinds; as the tragical and comical, whereupon
is risen the tragi-comical; some, in the manner, have mingled prose and verse, as Sannazaro
and Boetius; some have mingled matters heroical and pastoral; but that cometh all to one in
this question; for, if severed they be good, the conjunction cannot be hurtful.  Therefore,
perchance, forgetting some, and leaving some as needless to be remembered, it shall not be
amiss, in a word, to cite the special kinds, to see what faults may be found in the right use
of them.

Is it, then, the pastoral poem which is misliked? {46}  For, perchance, where the hedge is
lowest, they will soonest leap over. Is the poor pipe disdained, which sometimes, out of Melibaeus's
mouth, can show the misery of people under hard lords and ravening soldiers?  And again, by
Tityrus, what blessedness is derived to them that lie lowest from the goodness of them that
sit highest? Sometimes under the pretty tales of wolves and sheep, can include the whole considerations
of wrong doing and patience; sometimes show, that contentions for trifles can get but a trifling
victory; where, perchance, a man may see that even Alexander and Darius, when they strove who
should be cock of this world's dunghill, the benefit they got was, that the after-livers may say,

"Haec memini, et victum frustra contendere Thyrsim. Ex illo Corydon, Corydon est tempore nobis."
{47}

Or is it the lamenting elegiac, {48} which, in a kind heart, would move rather pity than blame;
who bewaileth, with the great philosopher Heraclitus, the weakness of mankind, and the wretchedness
of the world; who, surely, is to be praised, either for compassionately accompanying just causes
of lamentations, or for rightly pointing out how weak be the passions of wofulness?

Is it the bitter, but wholesome iambic, {49} who rubs the galled mind, making shame the trumpet
of villany, with bold and open crying out against naughtiness?

Or the satiric? who,

"Omne vafer vitium ridenti tangit amico;" {50}

who sportingly never leaveth, until he make a man laugh at folly, and, at length, ashamed to
laugh at himself, which he cannot avoid without avoiding the folly; who, while "circum praecordia
ludit," giveth us to feel how many headaches a passionate life bringeth us to; who when all
is done,

"Est Ulubris, animus si nos non deficit aequus." {51}

No, perchance, it is the comic; {52} whom naughty play-makers and stage-keepers have justly
made odious.  To the arguments of abuse I will after answer; only thus much now is to be said,
that the comedy is an imitation of the common errors of our life, which he representeth in
the most ridiculous and scornful sort that may be; so as it is impossible that any beholder
can be content to be such a one.  Now, as in geometry, the oblique must be known as well as
the right, and in arithmetic, the odd as well as the even; so in the actions of our life, who
seeth not the filthiness of evil, wanteth a great foil to perceive the beauty of virtue.  This
doth the comedy handle so, in our private and domestical matters, as, with hearing it, we get,
as it were, an experience of what is to be looked for, of a niggardly Demea, of a crafty Davus,
of a flattering Gnatho, of a vain-glorious Thraso; and not only to know what effects are to
be expected, but to know who be such, by the signifying badge given them by the comedian. 
And little reason hath any man to say, that men learn the evil by seeing it so set out; since,
as I said before, there is no man living, but by the force truth hath in nature, no sooner
seeth these men play their parts, but wisheth them in "pistrinum;" {53} although, perchance,
the sack of his own faults lie so behind his back, that he seeth not himself to dance in the
same measure, whereto yet nothing can more open his eyes than to see his own actions contemptibly
set forth; so that the right use of comedy will, I think, by nobody be blamed.

And much less of the high and excellent tragedy, {54} that openeth the greatest wounds, and
showeth forth the ulcers that are covered with tissue; that maketh kings fear to be tyrants,
and tyrants to manifest their tyrannical humours; that with stirring the effects of admiration
and commiseration, teacheth the uncertainty of this world, and upon how weak foundations gilded
roofs are builded; that maketh us know, "qui sceptra saevos duro imperio regit, timet timentes,
metus in authorem redit."  But how much it can move, Plutarch yielded a notable testimony of
the abominable tyrant Alexander Pheraeus; from whose eyes a tragedy, well made and represented,
drew abundance of tears, who without all pity had murdered infinite numbers, and some of his
own blood; so as he that was not ashamed to make matters for tragedies, yet could not resist
the sweet violence of a tragedy.  And if it wrought no farther good in him, it was that he,
in despite of himself, withdrew himself from hearkening to that which might mollify his hardened
heart.  But it is not the tragedy they do dislike, for it were too absurd to cast out so excellent
a representation of whatsoever is most worthy to be learned.

Is it the lyric that most displeaseth, who with his tuned lyre and well-accorded voice, giveth
praise, the reward of virtue, to virtuous acts? who giveth moral precepts and natural problems?
who sometimes raiseth up his voice to the height of the heavens, in singing the lauds of the
immortal God?  In Hungary I have seen it the manner at all feasts, and all other such-like
meetings, to have songs of their ancestors' valour, which that right soldier-like nation think
one of the chiefest kindlers of brave courage.  The incomparable Lacedaemonians did not only
carry that kind of music ever with them to the field, but even at home, as such songs were
made, so were they all content to be singers of them; when the lusty men were to tell what
they did, the old men what they had done, and the young what they would do.  And where a man
may say that Pindar many times praiseth highly victories of small moment, rather matters of
sport than virtue; as it may be answered, it was the fault of the poet, and not of the poetry,
so, indeed, the chief fault was in the time and custom of the Greeks, who set those toys at
so high a price, that Philip of Macedon reckoned a horse-race won at Olympus among three fearful
felicities.  But as the inimitable Pindar often did, so is that kind most capable, and most
fit, to awake the thoughts from the sleep of idleness, to embrace honourable enterprises.

There rests the heroical, {56} whose very name, I think, should daunt all backbiters.  For
by what conceit can a tongue be directed to speak evil of that which draweth with him no less
champions than Achilles, Cyrus, AEneas, Turus, Tydeus, Rinaldo? who doth not only teach and
move to truth, but teacheth and moveth to the most high and excellent truth:  who maketh magnanimity
and justice shine through all misty fearfulness and foggy desires? who, if the saying of Plato
and Tully be true, that who could see virtue, would be wonderfully ravished with the love of
her beauty; this man setteth her out to make her more lovely, in her holiday apparel, to the
eye of any that will deign not to disdain until they understand.  But if any thing be already
said in the defence of sweet poetry, all concurreth to the maintaining the heroical, which
is not only a kind, but the best and most accomplished kind, of poetry.  For, as the image
of each action stirreth and instructeth the mind, so the lofty image of such worthies most
inflameth the mind with desire to be worthy, and informs with counsel how to be worthy.  Only
let AEneas be worn in the tablet of your memory, how he governeth himself in the ruin of his
country; in the preserving his old father, and carrying away his religious ceremonies; in obeying
God's commandments, to leave Dido, though not only passionate kindness, but even the human
consideration of virtuous gratefulness, would have craved other of him; how in storms, how
in sports, how in war, how in peace, how a fugitive, how victorious, how besieged, how besieging,
how to strangers, how to allies, how to enemies; how to his own, lastly, how in his inward
self, and how in his outward government; and I think, in a mind most prejudiced with a prejudicating
humour, he will be found in excellency fruitful.  Yea, as Horace saith, "Melius Chrysippo et
Crantore:" {57} but, truly, I imagine it falleth out with these poet-whippers as with some
good women who often are sick, but in faith they cannot tell where.  So the name of poetry
is odious to them, but neither his cause nor effects, neither the sum that contains him, nor
the particularities descending from him, give any fast handle to their carping dispraise.

Since, then, {58} poetry is of all human learnings the most ancient, and of most fatherly antiquity,
as from whence other learnings have taken their beginnings; since it is so universal that no
learned nation doth despise it, nor barbarous nation is without it; since both Roman and Greek
gave such divine names unto it, the one of prophesying, the other of making, and that indeed
that name of making is fit for him, considering, that where all other arts retain themselves
within their subject, and receive, as it were, their being from it, the poet only, only bringeth
his own stuff, and doth not learn a conceit out of a matter, but maketh matter for a conceit;
since neither his description nor end containeth any evil, the thing described cannot be evil;
since his effects be so good as to teach goodness, and delight the learners of it; since therein
(namely, in moral doctrine, the chief of all knowledges) he doth not only far pass the historian,
but, for instructing, is well nigh comparable to the philosopher; for moving, leaveth him behind
him; since the Holy Scripture (wherein there is no uncleanness) hath whole parts in it poetical,
and that even our Saviour Christ vouchsafed to use the flowers of it; since all his kinds are
not only in their united forms, but in their severed dissections fully commendable; I think,
and think I think rightly, the laurel crown appointed for triumphant captains, doth worthily,
of all other learnings, honour the poet's triumph.

But {59} because we have ears as well as tongues, and that the lightest reasons that may be,
will seem to weigh greatly, if nothing be put in the counterbalance, let us hear, and, as well
as we can, ponder what objections be made against this art, which may be worthy either of yielding
or answering.

