"

"Well, if evil ensue from the disclosure, it may be justly charged to my indiscretion. Let
it pass--only, in reporting me, did not Mirza say, Lord Mahommed, that the prohibition I laid
upon him proceeded from a prudent regard for your interests?"

"Yes."

"And in speaking of the change in the status of the world I then announced, and of the refluent
wave the East was to pour upon the West"--

"And of the doom of Constantinople!" Mahommed cried, in a sudden transport of excitement.

"Ay, and of the hero thou wert to be, my Lord! Said he nothing of the other caution I gave
him, how absolute verity could only be had by a recast of the horoscope at the city itself?
And how I was even then on my way thither?"

"Truly, O Prince. Mirza is a marvel!"

"Thanks, my Lord. The assurance prepares me to answer your last demand."

Then, lowering his voice, the Prince returned to his ordinary manner.

"The glory you are to look for will not depend upon conditions such as parties to the war,
or its immediate cause, or the place of its wagement."

Mahommed listened with open mouth.

"My Lord knows of the dispute long in progress between the Pope of Rome and the Patriarch of
Constantinople; one claiming to be the head of the Church of Christ, the other insisting on
his equality. The dispute, my Lord also knows, has been carried from East to West, and back
and back again, prelate replying to prelate, until the whole Church is falling to pieces, and
on every Christian tongue the 'Church East' and the 'Church West' are common as morning salutations."

Mahommed nodded.

"Now, my Lord," the Prince continued, the magnetic eyes intensely bright, "you and I know the
capital of Christianity is yonder "--he pointed toward Constantinople--"and that conquering
it is taking from Christ and giving to Mahomet. What more of definition of thy glory wilt thou
require? Thus early I salute thee a Sword of God."

Mahommed sprang from his couch, and strode the floor, frequently clapping his hands. Upon the
passing of the ecstasy, he stopped in front of the Prince.

"I see it now--the feat of arms impossible to my father reserved for me."

Again he walked, clapping his hands.

"I pray your pardon," he said, when the fit was over. "In my great joy I interrupted you."

"I regret to try my Lord's patience further," the Prince answered, with admirable diplomacy.
"It were better, however, to take another step in the explanation now. A few months after separating
from Mirza in Mecca, I arrived in Constantinople, and every night since, the heavens being
clear, I have questioned the stars early and late. I cannot repeat to my Lord all the inquiries
I made of them, so many were they, and so varied in form, nor the bases I laid hold of for
horoscopes, each having, as I hoped, to do with the date of the founding of the city. What
calculations I have made--tables of figures to cover the sky with a tapestry of algebraic and
geometrical symbols: The walks of astrology are well known --I mean those legitimate--nevertheless
in my great anxiety, I have even ventured into the arcana of magic forbidden to the Faithful.
The seven good angels, and the seven bad, beginning with Jubanladace, first of the good, a
celestial messenger, helmeted, sworded with flame, and otherwise beautiful to behold, and ending
with Barman, the lowest of the bad, the consort and ally of witches--I besought them all for
what they could tell me. Is the time of the running of the city now, to-morrow, next week--
when? Such the burden of my inquiry. As yet, my Lord, no answer has been given. I am merely
bid keep watch on the schism of the Church. In some way the end we hope has connection with
that rancor, if, indeed, it be not the grand result. With clear discernment of the tendencies,
the Roman Pontiff is striving to lay the quarrel; but he speaks to a rising tide. We cannot
hasten the event; neither can he delay it. Our role is patience--patience. At last Europe will
fall away, and leave the Greek to care of himself; then, my Lord, you have but to be ready.
The end is in the throes of its beginning now."

"Still you leave me in the dark," Mahommed cried, with a frown.

"Nay, my Lord, there is a chance for us to make the stars speak."

The beguiler appeared to hesitate.

"A chance?" Mahommed asked.

"It is dependent, my Lord."

"Upon what?"

"The life of the Sultan, thy father."

"Speak not in riddles, O Prince."

"Upon his death, thou wilt enter on the sovereignty."

"Still I see not clearly."

"With the horoscope of Mahommed the Sultan in my hand, then certainly as the stars perform
their circuits, being set thereunto from the first morning, they must respond to me; and then,
find I Mars in the Ascendant, well dignified essentially and accidentally, I can lead my Lord
out of the darkness."

"Then, Prince?"

"He may see the Christian capital at his mercy."

"But if Mars be not in the Ascendant?"

"My Lord must wait."

Mahommed sprang to his feet, gnashing his teeth.

"My Lord," said the Prince, calmly, "a man's destiny is never unalterable; it is like a pitcher
filled with wine which he is carrying to his lips--it may be broken on the way, and its contents
spilled. Such has often happened through impatience and pride. What is waiting but the wise
man's hour of preparation?"

The quiet manner helped the sound philosophy. Mahommed took seat, remarking, "You remind me,
Prince, of the saying of the Koran, 'Whatsoever good betideth thee, O man, it is from God,
and whatsoever evil betideth, from thyself is it.' I am satisfied. Only"--

The Prince summoned all his faculties again.

"Only I see two periods of waiting before me; one from this until I take up the sovereignty;
the other thence till thou bringest me the mandate of the stars. I fear not the second period,
for, as thou sayest, I can then lose myself in making ready; but the first, the meantime--ah,
Prince, speak of it. Tell me how I can find surcease of the chafing of my spirit."

The comprehension of the wily Hebrew did not fail him. His heart beat violently. He was master!
Once more he was in position to change the world. A word though not more than "now," and he
could marshal the East, which he so loved, against the West, which he so hated. If Constantinople
failed him, Christianity must yield its seat to Islam. He saw it all flash-like; yet at no
time in the interview did his face betoken such placidity of feeling. The meantime was his,
not Mahommed's--his to lengthen or shorten--his for preparation. He could afford to be placid.

"There is much for my Lord to do," he said.

"When, O Prince--now?"

"It is for him to think and act as if Constantinople were his capital temporarily in possession
of another."

The words caught attention, and it is hard saying what Mahommed's countenance betokened. The
reader must think of him as of a listener just awakened to a new idea of infinite personal concern.

It is questionable if any of the things imparted had been so effective upon Mahommed as this
one. Not only did his last doubt of the man talking disappear; it excited a boundless admiration
for him, and the freshest novitiate in human nature knows how almost impossible it is to refuse
trust when once we have been brought to admire. "Oh!" Mahommed cried. "A pastime, a pastime,
if I could be there!"

"Nay, my Lord," said the insidious counsellor, with a smile, "how do kings manage to be everywhere
at the same time?"

"They have their Ambassadors. But I am not a king."

"Not yet a king"--the speaker laid stress upon the adverb--"nevertheless public representation
is one thing; secret agency another."

Mahommed's voice sank almost to a whisper.

"Wilt thou accept this agency?"

"It is for me to observe the heavens at night, while calculations will take my days. I trust
my Lord in his wisdom will excuse me."

"Where is one for the service? Name him, Prince--one as good."

"There is one better. Bethink you, my Lord, the business is of a long time; it may run through
years."

Mahommed's brow knit darkly at the reminder. It is of prime importance that he possesses my
Lord's confidence unalterably. Am I understood?"

"The man, Prince, the man!"

"My Lord has already named him."

"I?"

"Only to-night my Lord spoke of him as a marvel."

"Mirza!" exclaimed Mahommed, clapping his hands.

"My servant has found much favor with you, O Prince?"

Accepting the remark as a question, the other answered:

"Did I not spend the night with him at El Zaribah? Was I not witness of his trial of faith
at the Holy Kaaba? Have I not heard from my Lord himself how, when put to choice, he ignored
my prohibition respecting the stars?"

Mahommed arose, and again walked to and fro.

"There is a trouble in this proposal, Prince," he said, halting abruptly. "So has Mirza become
a part of me, I am scarcely myself without him."

Another turn across the floor, and he seemed to become reconciled. "Let us have done for to-night,"
he next said. "The game is imperative, but it will not be harmed by a full discussion. Stay
with me to-morrow, Prince."

The Prince remembered the Emperor. Not unlikely a message from that high personage was at his
house, received in course of the day.

"True, very true, and the invitation is a great honor to me," he replied, bowing; "but I am
reminded that the gossips in Byzantium will feast each other when to-morrow it passes from
court to bazaar how the Princess Irene and the Prince of India were driven by the storm to
accept hospitality in the White Castle. And if it get abroad, that Mahommed, son of the great
Amurath, came also to the Castle, who may foretell the suspicions to hatch in the city? No,
my Lord, I submit it is better for me to depart with the Princess at the subsidence of the waters."

"Be it so," Mahommed returned, cordially. "We understand each other. I am to wait and you to
communicate with me; and now, morning comes apace, good night."

He held his hand to the Jew; whereat the latter knelt and kissed the hand, but retained it to say:

"My Lord, if I know him rightly, will not sleep to-night; thought is an enemy to sleep; and
besides the inspiration there is in the destiny promised, its achievement lies all before him.
Yet I wish to leave behind me one further topic, promising it is as much greater than any other
as the Heavens are higher than the earth."

"Rise, Prince," said Mahommed, helping him to his feet. "Such ceremonious salutation whether
in reception or at departure may be dispensed with hereafter; thou art not a stranger, but
more than a guest. I count thee my friend whom everything shall wait upon--even myself. Speak
now of what thou callest the greater scheme. I am most curious."

There was a silence while one might count ten slowly. The Jew in that space concentrated the
mysterious force of which he was master in great store, so it shone in his eyes, gave tone
to his voice, and was an outgoing of WILL in overwhelming current. "Lord Mahommed," he said,
"I know you are a believer in God."

The young Turk was conscious of a strange thrill passing through him from brain to body.

"In nature and every quality the God of the Jew, the Christian, and the Moslem is the same.
Take we their own sayings. Christ and Mahomet were witnesses sent to testify of Him first,
highest and alone--Him the universal Father. Yet behold the perversity of man. God has been
deposed, and for ages believers in Him have been divided amongst themselves; wherefore hate,
jealousies, wars, battle and the smoke of slaughter perpetually. But now is He at last minded
to be restored. Hear, Lord Mahommed, hear with soul and mortal ear!"

