Again the door was thrown open, and this time the Dean ushered the Prince into the chamber,
and conducted him toward the dais. Thrice the foreigner prostrated himself; the last time within
easy speaking distance of His Majesty, who silently agreed with the observant lookers-on, that
he had never seen the salutations better executed.

"Rise, Prince of India," the Emperor said, blandly, and well pleased.

The Prince arose, and stood before him, his eyes downcast, his hands upon his breast--suppliancy
in excellent pantomime.

"Be not surprised, Prince of India, at the assemblage you behold." Thus His Majesty proceeded.
"Its presence is due, I declare to you, not so much to design of mine as to the report the
city has had of your former audience, and the theme of which you then promised to discourse."
Without apparently noticing the low reverence in acknowledgment of the compliment, he addressed
himself to the body of listeners. "I regard it courtesy to our noble Indian guest to advise
you, my Lords of the Court, and you, devotees of Christ and the Father, whose prayers are now
the chief stay of my empire, that he is present by my appointment. On a previous occasion,
he interested us--I speak of many of my very honorable assistants in Government--he interested
us, I say, with an account of his resignation of the Kingship in his country, moved by a desire
to surrender himself exclusively to study of religion. Under my urgency, he bravely declared
he was neither Jew, Moslem, Hindoo, Buddhist nor Christian; that his travels and investigation
had led him to a faith which he summed up by pronouncing the most holy name of God; giving
us to understand he meant the God to whom our hearts have long been delivered. He also referred
to the denominations into which believers are divided, and said his one motive in life was
the bringing them together in united brotherhood; and as I cannot imagine a result more desirable,
provided its basis obtain the sanction of our conscience, I will now ask him to proceed, if
it be his pleasure, and speak to us freely."

Again the visitor prostrated himself in his best oriental manner; after which, moving backward,
he went to the table and took a few minutes arranging the books and rolls. The spectators availed
themselves of the opportunity to gratify their curiosity well as they could from mere inspection
of the man; and as the liberty was within his anticipations, it gave him but slight concern.

We about know how he appeared to them. We remember his figure, low, slightly stooped, and deficiently
slender;--we remember the thin yet healthful looking face, even rosy of cheek;--we can see
him in his pointed red slippers, his ample trousers of glossy white satin, his long black gown,
relieved at the collar and cuffs with fine laces, his hair fallen on his shoulders, beard overflowing
his breast;--we can even see the fingers, transparent, singularly flexible in operation, turning
leaves, running down pages and smoothing them out, and placing this roll or that book as convenience
required, all so lithe, swift, certain, they in a manner exposed the mind which controlled
them. At length, the preliminaries finished, the Prince raised his eyes, and turned them slowly
about--those large, deep, searching eyes--wells from which, without discoverable effort, he
drew magnetism at his pleasure.

He began simply, his voice distinct, and cast to make itself heard, and not more.

"This"--his second finger was on a page of the large volume heretofore described--"this is
the Bible, the most Holy of Bibles. I call it the rock on which your faith and mine are castled."
There was a stretching of necks to see, and he did not allow the sensation to pass.

"And more--it is one of the fifty copies of the Bible translated by order of the first Constantine,
under supervision of his minister Eusebius, well known to you for piety and learning."

It seemed at first every Churchman was on his feet, but directly the Emperor observed Scholarius
and the Patriarch seated, the latter diligently crossing himself. The excitement can be readily
comprehended by considering the assemblage and its composition of zealots and relic-worshippers,
and that, while the tradition respecting the fifty copies was familiar, not a man there could
have truly declared he had ever seen one of them--so had they disappeared from the earth.

"These are Bibles, also," the speaker resumed, upon the restoration of order--"Bibles sacred
to those unto whom they were given as that imperishable monument to Moses and David is to us;
for they too are Revelations from God--ay, the very same God! This is the Koran--and these,
the Kings of the Chinese--and these, the Avesta of the Magians of Persia--and these, the Sutras
well preserved of Buddha--and these, the Vedas of the patient Hindoos, my countrymen."

He carefully designated each book and roll by placing his finger on it.

"I thank Your Majesty for the gracious words of introduction you were pleased to give me. They
set before my noble and most reverend auditors my history and the subject of my discourse;
leaving me, without wrong to their understanding, or waste of time or words, to invite them
to think of the years it took to fit myself to read these Books--for so I will term them--years
spent among the peoples to whom they are divine. And when that thought is in mind, stored there
past loss, they will understand what I mean by Religion, and the methods I adopted and pursued
for its study. Then also the value of the assertions I make can be intelligently weighed....
This first--Have not all men hands and eyes? We may not be able to read the future in our palms;
but there is no excuse for us if we do not at least see God in them. Similarity is law, and
the law of Nature is the will of God. Keep the argument with you, O my Lord, for it is the
earliest lesson I had from my travels.... Animals when called to, the caller being on a height
over them, never look for him above the level of their eyes; even so some men are incapable
of thinking of the mysteries hidden out of sight in the sky; but it is not so with all; and
therein behold the partiality of God. The reason of the difference between the leaves of trees
not of the same species, is the reason of the inequality of genius among races of men. The
Infinite prefers variety because He is more certainly to be perceived in it. At this stop now,
my Lord, mark the second lesson of my travels. God, wishing above all things to manifest Himself
and His character to all humanity, made choice amongst the races, selecting those superior
in genius, and intrusted them with special revelations; whence we have the two kinds of religion,
natural and revealed. Seeing God in a stone, and worshipping it, is natural religion; the consciousness
of God in the heart, an excitant of love and gratitude inexpressible except by prayer and hymns
of praise--that, O my Lord, is the work and the proof of revealed religion.... I next submit
the third of the lessons I have had; but, if I may have your attention to the distinction,
it is remarkable as derived from my reading"--here he covered all the books on the table with
a comprehensive gesture--"my reading more than my travels; and I call it the purest wisdom
because it is not sentiment, at the same time that it is without so much as a strain of philosophy,
being a fact clear as any fact deducible from history--yes, my Lord, clearer, more distinct,
more positive, most undeniable--an incident of the love the Universal Maker has borne his noblest
creatures from their first morning--a Godly incident which I have had from the study of these
Bibles in comparison with each other. In brief, my Lord, a revelation not intended for me above
the generality of men; nevertheless a revelation to me, since I went seeking it--or shall I
call it a recompense for the crown and throne I voluntarily gave away?"

The feeling the Prince threw into these words took hold of his auditors. Not a few of them
were struck with awe, somewhat as if he were a saint or prophet, or a missionary from the dead
returned with secrets theretofore locked up fast in the grave. They waited for his next saying--his
third lesson, as he termed it--with anxiety.

"The Holy Father of Light and Life," the speaker went on, after a pause referable to his consummate
knowledge of men, "has sent His Spirit down to the world, not once merely, or unto one people,
but repeatedly, in ages sometimes near together, sometimes wide apart, and to races diverse,
yet in every instance remarkable for genius."

There was a murmur at this, but he gave it no time.

"Ask you now how I could identify the Spirit so as to be able to declare to you solemnly, as
I do in fear of God, that in the several repeated appearances of which I speak it was the very
same Spirit? How do you know the man you met at set of sun yesterday was the man you saluted
and had salute from this morning? Well, I tell you the Father has given the Spirit features
by which it may be known--features distinct as those of the neighbors nearest you there at
your right and left hands. Wherever in my reading Holy Books, like these, I hear of a man,
himself a shining example of righteousness, teaching God and the way to God, by those signs
I say to my soul: 'Oh, the Spirit, the Spirit! Blessed is the man appointed to carry it about!'"

Again the murmur, but again he passed on.

"The Spirit dwelt in the Holy of Holies set apart for it in the Tabernacle; yet no man ever
saw it there, a thing of sight. The soul is not to be seen; still less is the Spirit of the
Most High; or if one did see it, its brightness would kill him. In great mercy, therefore,
it has always come and done its good works in the world veiled; now in one form, now in another;
at one time, a voice in the air; at another, a vision in sleep; at another, a burning bush;
at another, an angel; at another, a descending dove"--

"Bethabara!" shouted a cowled brother, tossing both hands up.

"Be quiet!" the Patriarch ordered.

"Thus always when its errand was of quick despatch," the Prince continued. "But if its coming
were for residence on earth, then its habit has been to adopt a man for its outward form, and
enter into him, and speak by him; such was Moses, such Elijah, such were all the Prophets,
and such"--he paused, then exclaimed shrilly--"such was Jesus Christ!"

In his study at home, the Prince had undoubtedly thought out his present delivery with the
care due an occasion likely to be a turning-point in his projects, if not his life; and it
must at that time have required of him a supreme effort of will to resolve upon this climax;
as it was, he hesitated, and turned the hue of ashes; none the less his unknowing auditors
renewed their plaudits. Even the Emperor nodded approvingly. None of them divined the cunning
of the speaker; not one thought he was pledging himself by his applause to a kindly hearing
of the next point in the speech.

