The horticultural show was in the Town-hall, a large, handsome apartment, with long aisles
of tables, covered with piles of fruits and vegetables; and such fruits! peaches, nectarines,
apricots, and the choicest plums, all of open-air growth, and not surpassed by any I have seen--fully
equal to the best hot-house productions of England. Vegetables also very fine, all equal to
the finest, except the turnip, which in New England is small. The flowers as beautiful as in
the Old Country, but much smaller; consequently, that part of the show was much inferior to
our shows of the kind. In the evening of each day, the fruits are put up to auction, and a
good deal of merriment is caused by this part of the entertainment. Those who supply the show
are well paid, as each morning there is a fresh supply; thus proving that it is not the selected
few that are exhibited, but the average produce of the county.

From thence I walked to the show of products of industry. I found a building 600 feet in length,
40 feet wide, and two storeys high, crammed with such a variety of articles that it is extremely
difficult to describe them, or, indeed, to reduce them to order in the mind. I do not propose
to send you a catalogue, but to convey, as far as I can, the impression made upon me. The ground-floor
is devoted to the exhibition of agricultural implements and machinery. I have no intention
to enter into the question of our own patent laws, but I cannot refuse to acknowledge the superiority
of the arrangements here. The greatest advantage is, that the right to an invention is so simply,
cheaply, and easily secured, that there is no filching or ill-feeling. Talking with a very
intelligent person, who was kindly trying to give me definite ideas in this labyrinth of cranks
and wheels, by shewing and explaining to me the movements of a most singular machine for making
carding implements--I said: 'How is it, that with these wonders, the American portion of the
Crystal Palace in London should have been so scant? Here is enough for almost an indefinite
supply: the reaping-machine is but a unit.' 'True,' he replied, 'but we could get no guarantee
for securing the patents; and if one man was simple enough to give the English his reaping-machine,
it did not suit others to be robbed. We have little ambition about the matter: satisfied with
what we have, we cannot afford to give away inventions for the sake of fine words.' This explained
the whole to me.

The first store I looked over in this country was one in Boston, having an immense stock of
agricultural implements, and tools for every mechanical purpose. I should know something of
such matters, having whistled at the plough myself, and used most of the implements; and being
therefore curious on the point, I looked in for the sake of old associations. I am positive
that every article for agricultural and mechanical use is better made than with us, and more
adapted to its purpose--tools especially. What has been said of the plough in London, is equally
true of all other implements in use in America, from the most complicated to the most simple.
The Englishman uses what his fathers used; the American will have the tool best adapted, whether
existing before his time or not. In favour of this superiority in tools is the fine quality
of the hard-woods used here. At the Fair I saw some coach and chaise wheels, of the most beautiful
make, of hickory, which is as durable as metal-spokes, not thicker than the middle finger,
but strong enough for any required weight, and with great flexibility; and from its extreme
toughness, calculated for the woodwork of implements. The apartment on the ground-floor was
entirely occupied by machines in motion, and each was attended by a person who explained, with
the greatest civility and intelligence, the uses of the various parts of the machine, setting
it going, or stopping it, as necessary: each had its crowd of listeners; and I could not but
admire the patience and politeness of the lecturer, as he endeavoured to explain the wondrous
capabilities of his own pet machine. It would require a volume to follow the subject thoroughly;
but I will mention what appeared to be the newest inventions, or those not known in England.

A crowd of ladies were watching with great attention the Sewing-machine--sewing away with the
greatest exactness, and much stronger than by the ordinary mode with a needle, as each stitch
is a knot. The inventor was shewing it; and he said he had nearly completed a machine for the
button-holes. The next was a machine called 'The Man'--and truly named, for a more marvellous
production can scarcely be conceived--for making implements for carding wool or cotton, the
article passing in as raw wire, going through before our eyes four processes of the most delicate
description, and finally coming out a perfect card, with its wire-teeth exactly set, and ready
for use. My attention was drawn to the application of the Jacquard principle to a loom engaged
in weaving a calico fabric, of various colours woven with a pattern, and thus producing an
elegant article, thick, and well adapted for bed-furniture. But the most curious and simple,
and withal, perhaps, the most important invention for facilitating manufactures, is what is
called the 'Turpin Wheel,' taking its name from the inventor. How simple may be the birth of
a great idea! We all observe that a log under a waterfall, coming down perpendicularly upon
it, spins round, as on an axis, till it escapes. This led to the invention in question. The
water falls upon the spokes of a horizontal wheel, which it sends round with great velocity;
and by this contrivance the force of the water is more than doubled. I must not omit to mention
the machine just invented for weaving the fabric we call Brussels carpeting. This machine will
weave twenty yards of carpeting per day, with one female to attend it. The carpet is worth
3s. per yard, while the wages paid for human aid in its production is 1-1/4d. per yard: machinery
can go little further. Let me add, that I was informed that everything on this floor was the
invention of working-men.

Upon ascending to the first floor, I found the apartment arranged with stands--each stand devoted
to one sort of manufacture--and attended, as below, by an intelligent person, to shew and explain.
Here was every description of furniture, cotton, and woollen fabric; but neither velvets nor
silks, which have not, as yet, been introduced. We know so much of our doings in England in
the woollen and cotton line, that my attention was principally attracted to these specimens.
Here was everything except the broad-cloths--all the patterns of plaid-shawls, so beautifully
imitated and executed, that they would, I am sure, pass in Edinburgh. I saw the kerseymere
fabric that obtained the prize in London, and nothing could be more beautiful; for the calicoes,
I believe we cannot produce them cheaper or better. A writer in a journal here, observes: 'Why
should our cotton go to England to be spun when we can spin it in Massachusetts?' A very pertinent
question, well worth thinking of at home. We should be thankful to the projectors of the Crystal
Palace, that it has opened our eyes, for nothing else could. There is no manner of doubt, that
we can learn something beyond yacht-sailing; but we shall not open our eyes to the widest until
the arrival in our market of the first cargo of manufactured woollens and cottons; and as surely
as we have barrels of flour and pork, we shall soon find them with us: I saw first-rate calico,
which could be sold at 2d. per yard.

The exports of manufactured goods from this country to all parts of the world is increasing
weekly; but of all that another time, for I am carefully collecting information. One stand
I would not omit, as it furnished evidence of the condition of the operatives. The exhibition
is managed by the mechanics themselves, and the profits are devoted to the support of a mechanics'
institute, with the usual advantages of library, balls, and concerts, but of a very superior
order; while every female who provides any article of her own production for exhibition and
sale, has a free ticket admitting to all the advantages of the institution. This is found a
useful stimulus, as the stand for those articles testified, consisting as they did of all descriptions
of fancy-work: rugs, chair-bottoms, table-covers, tapestry, &c. produced in overhours, tasteful
in design, and beautiful in execution. Let me not forget an invention, which is as great a
boon to sufferers as the water-bed: it is a contrivance applied to an ordinary bedstead, which,
by turning a handle, will support any part of the body, or place the body in any required position.
It was the invention of a mechanic, who was nine months in bed in consequence of an accident,
and felt the want of something of the kind. It is adapted to a bedstead at a cost of L.3.

From thence I went to the cattle-show. I could see but little of that, as most of the animals
were gone; but I was assured it was very fine. I believe it, if what I saw was a specimen--a
pair of working oxen, perfectly white, the pair weighing 7000 pounds. In our cattle-shows at
home, we find plenty of bulk, but it destroys form and symmetry: here both were preserved.
The fowls are of the long-legged Spanish breed, coming to table like trussed ostriches; the
plump English barndoor sort are about being introduced. I had nearly forgotten a beautiful
and extraordinary invention--a rifle, not heavier than the common one, that will discharge
twenty-four balls in succession without reloading. Where the ramrod is usually placed, is a
smaller barrel, containing, when filled, twenty-four ball-cartridges, and, after discharging,
the action of recocking introduces another cartridge, and so on, until the whole are discharged;
the whole twenty-four can be discharged in as many seconds!

After leaving this interesting exhibition, where I could have lingered a whole day, I was joined
by a friend, an American--a gentleman of great attainments in science--to whose remarks I am
indebted for the following scraps. The Merrimac, when low--as when I saw it--is a trifling
stream, having a bottom of laminated rock, worn in channels by the stream. At spring and fall,
there is ten or fifteen feet of depth; and to remedy this inequality, an important work was
undertaken and executed: to this we bent our way. It is a canal in form, but should more properly
be called a reservoir. It is 1-1/4 miles long, 100 feet wide, and 15 feet deep; of solid granite,
sides and bottom--equal in durability to any work, ancient or modern. It is about half way
cut through the solid granite rock, which in that part furnishes a natural wall. My friend
had watched its progress, and gave me many interesting details of the engineering processes
employed: among others, the tremendous application of steam and gunpowder. An engine bored
holes in the rock fifteen feet deep and twelve inches in diameter; and these were so placed,
and in such numbers, that at a single blast 170 tons of granite were blown into the air--an
operation hardly conceivable. This canal leaves the town in a westerly direction--being, at
its outset, about a quarter of a mile from the Merrimac, but gradually approximating for a
quarter of a mile, until it touches and unites with that river. Between the two, is one of
the prettiest of public walks, ten feet wide, having rows of trees on each side, and terminating
in a point; being the end of a splendid granite wall, at its base thirty feet thick, and tapering
to half the thickness, dividing the natural from the artificial stream. Here we come to a point
of great interest: on the right is an artificial dam across the river, with two sharp lines
at an angle of sixty-seven degrees, the point meeting the stream, thus stopping the waters,
and insuring a supply for the reservoir, while it forms a cascade of about twenty feet.

My friend gave me a very graphic description of the opening of the works. The whole was built
in a cofferdam, quite dry, and the opening was a holiday. Every spot within sight was covered
with spectators, for whom the engineer had contrived a surprise. The works used in keeping
the water out of the reservoir, and protecting the new dam, were undermined, and charged with
gunpowder. At a given signal, the train was fired, and in an instant the whole blew up; and
when the smoke cleared away, the fragments were floating down the Merrimac, and the canal full
of water.

On the left from the point, the egress of water is regulated by flood-gates of a superior construction.
The building crosses the canal, and contains seven huge gates, which are raised or dropped
into their places by beautiful machinery. To each gate is attached an immense screw, which
stands perpendicularly, twenty feet long and ten inches in diameter. At its upper end, it passes
through a matrix-worm in the centre of a large cog-wheel, lying horizontally The whole is set
in motion by the slightest turning of a handle; and here I saw the application of the Turpin
Wheel I spoke of before--no engine or complication, but a wheel fifteen feet in diameter, fixed
horizontally, submerged in the stream, receiving the falling waters, and thus rapidly revolving,
and by a gear, giving motion to the machinery for raising or lowering the immense gates, stopped
or set going by merely turning a stop-cock, and requiring no more force than an ordinary water-cistern.

I cannot leave this interesting spot without an attempt to describe the beautiful scene. A
little to the right, the river widens into a sort of bay, with several fine islands covered
with wood; in front, across the stream, as far as the eye can reach, are the forests of New
Hampshire, with occasional headlands of greensward. In the autumn, it has exactly the appearance
of a gigantic flower-garden--the trees being of every imaginable colour. 'Ah!' said my friend,
'this is an interesting spot: it was the favourite residence and hunting-ground of the Chippewas.
The Indians, like your monks of old in Europe, always chose the most beautiful and picturesque
sites for their dwellings; but they have retired before the advance of a civilisation they
could not share or appreciate.' Talking in this way, as we returned, he called my attention
to a singular phenomenon in the river. At some remote period there was, and it remains to the
present moment, a rock standing in the middle of the stream, about twelve feet in diameter
at the top, of an irregular form, and of the hardest granite. By the action of the water, a
mass of granite had been thrown on the top, where it lodged. At high-water, perhaps during
three months in each year, the stream had caused this mass to revolve on its own axis, until
it has worn itself of a round figure, and worn also the rock into a cup, now about six feet
deep. Still, it revolves when the water reaches it--nature still plays at this cup-and-ball--the
ball weighing five tons. Talk of this sort brought us to the railway. In due time I reached
home; and I do not remember to have ever been more interested than by the day spent at Lowell.

THE SEA AND THE POETS.

Of three poets, each the most original in his language, and each peculiarly susceptible of
impressions from external nature--Horace, Shakspeare, and Burns--not one seems to have appreciated
the beauty, the majestic sublimity, the placid loveliness, alternating with the terrific grandeur,
of the 'many-sounding sea.' Judging from their incidental allusions to it, and the use they
make of it in metaphor and imagery, it would seem to have presented itself to their imaginations
only as a fierce, unruly, untamable, and unsightly monster, to be loathed and avoided--a blot
on the fair face of creation--a necessary evil, perhaps; but still an evil, and most certainly
suggestive of no ideas poetic in their character.

It is marvellous, for there is not one of these poets who does not discover a lively sense
of the varied charms of universal nature, and has not painted them in glowing colours with
the pencil of a master. Who has not noted with what evident love, with what a nicely-discriminative
knowledge Shakspeare has pictured our English flowers, our woodland glades, the forest scenery
of Old England, before the desolating axe had prostrated the pride of English woods? And Horace--with
what charming playfulness, with what exquisite grace, has he not figured the olive-groves of
Tibur, the pendent vines ruddy with the luscious grape, the silver streams, the sparkling fountains
and purple skies of fruitful Campania! Looking on nature with a poet's eye, as did these poets,
one and all of them, is it not a psychological mystery that none of them should have detected
the ineffable beauty of a sea-prospect?

First, as to Horace. When climbing the heights of Mount Vultur, that Lucanian hill where once,
when overcome by fatigue, the youthful poet lay sleeping, and doves covered his childish and
wearied limbs with leaves--Horace must have often viewed, with their wide expanse glittering
in the sun, the waters of the Adriatic--often must he have hailed the grateful freshness of
the sea-breeze and the invigorating perfumes of

         ---- 'the early sea-smell blown
    Through vineyards from some inland bay.'

Yet about this sea, which should have kindled his imagination and inspired his genius, this
thankless bard poetises in a vein such as a London citizen, some half-century back, might have
indulged in after a long, tedious, 'squally' voyage in an overladen Margate hoy.

No such spirit possessed him as that which dictated poor Campbell's noble apostrophe to the
glorious 'world of waters:'

         ---- 'Earth has not a plain
    So boundless or so beautiful as thine;
    The eagle's vision cannot take it in;
    The lightning's glance, too weak to sweep its space,
    Sinks half-way o'er it, like a wearied bird:
    It is the mirror of the stars, where all
    Their hosts within the concave firmament,
    Gay marching to the music of the spheres,
    Can see themselves at once.'

Horace, indeed, has sung the praises of Tarentum--that beautiful maritime city of the Calabrian
Gulf, whose attractions were such as to make the delights of Tarentum a common proverbial expression.
But what were these delights as celebrated by our poet?--the perfection of its honey, the excellence
of its olives, the abundance of its grapes, its lengthened spring and temperate winter. For
these, its merits, did Horace prefer, as he tells us, Tarentum to every other spot on the wide
earth--his beloved Tibur only and ever excepted. In truth, Horace valued and visited the sea-side
only in winter, and then simply because its climate was milder than that to be met with inland,
and therefore more agreeable to the dilapidated constitution of a sensitive valetudinarian.
His commentators suppose he produced nothing during his marine hybernations: if the inclement
season froze 'the genial current of his soul,' the aspect of the sea did not thaw it.

His motive for his sea-side trips is amusingly set forth in one of the most lively and characteristic
of his Epistles--the fifteenth of the first book. In this he inquires of a friend what sort
of winter weather is to be found at Velia and Salernum; two cities, one on the Adriatic, the
other on the Mediterranean seaboard of Italy--what manner of roads they had--whether the people
there drank tank-water or spring-water--and whether hares, boars, crabs, and fish were with
them abundant. He adds, he is not apprehensive about their wines--knowing these, as we may
infer, to be good--although usually, when from home, he is scrupulous about his liquors; whilst,
when at home, he can put up almost with anything in the way of potations. It is quite plain
Horace went down to the sea just in the spirit in which a turtle-fed alderman would transfer
himself to Cheltenham; or in which a fine lady, whose nerves the crush, hurry, and late hours
of a London season had somewhat disturbed, would exchange the dissipations of Mayfair for the
breezy hills of Malvern, or the nauseous waters of Tunbridge Wells.

This certainly explains, and perhaps excuses, the grossly uncivil terms in which alone he notices
the sea. One of the worst of Ulysses' troubles was, according to him, the numerous and lengthy
sea-voyages which that Ithacan gadabout had to take. Horace wishes for Mævius, who was his
aversion, no worse luck than a rough passage and shipwreck at the end of it. His notion of
a happy man--ille beatus--is one who has not to dread the sea. Augustus, whose success had
blessed not only his own country, but the whole world, had--not the least of his blessings--given
to the seamen a calmed sea--pacatum mare. Lamenting at Virgil's departure for Athens, he rebukes
the impiety of the first mariner who ventured, in the audacity of his heart, to go afloat and
cross the briny barrier interposed between nations. He esteems a merchant favoured specially
by the gods, should he twice or thrice a year return in safety from an Atlantic cruise. He
tells us he himself had known the terrors of 'the dark gulf of the Adriatic,' and had experienced
'the treachery of the western gale;' and expresses a charitable wish, that the enemies of the
Roman state were exposed to the delights of both. He likens human misery to a sea 'roughened
by gloomy winds;' 'to embark once more on the mighty sea,' is his figurative expression for
once more engaging in the toils and troubles of the world; Rome, agitated by the dangers of
civil conflict, resembles an ill-formed vessel labouring tempest-tossed in the waves; his implacable
Myrtale resembles the angry Adriatic, in which also he finds a likeness to an ill-tempered
lover. All through, from first to last, the gentle Horace pelts with most ungentle phrases
one of the noblest objects in nature, provocative alike of our admiration and our awe, our
terror and our love.

And even Shakspeare must be ranged in the same category. The most English of poets has not
one laudatory phrase for

             ---- 'The seas
    Which God hath given for fence impregnable'

to the poet's England. It is idle to say that Shakspeare was inland-bred--that he knew nothing,
and could therefore have cared nothing about the matter--seeing that, insensible as he might
have been to its beauties, he makes constant reference to the sea, and even in language implying
that his familiarity with it was not inferior to that of any yachtsman who has ever sailed
out of Cowes Harbour. He uses nautical terms frequently and appropriately. Romeo's rope-ladder
is 'the high top-gallant of his joy;' King John, dying of poison, declares 'the tackle of his
heart is cracked,' and 'all the shrouds wherewith his life should sail' wasted 'to a thread.'
Polonius tells Laertes, 'the wind sits in the shoulder of your sail'--a technical expression,
the singular propriety of which a naval critic has recently established; whilst some of the
commentators on the passage in King Lear, descriptive of the prospect from Dover Cliffs, affirm
that the comparison as to apparent size, of the ship to her cock-boat, and the cock-boat to
a buoy, discover a perfect knowledge of the relative proportions of the objects named. In Hamlet,
Othello, The Tempest, The Merchant of Venice, The Comedy of Errors, Twelfth Night, Winter's
Tale, Measure for Measure, and Pericles, sea-storms are made accessory to the development of
the plot, and sometimes described with a force and truthfulness which forbid the belief that
the writer had never witnessed such scenes: however, like Horace, it is in the darkest colours
that Shakspeare uniformly paints 'the multitudinous seas.'

In the Winter's Tale, we read of--

             ---- 'the fearful usage
    (Albeit ungentle) of the dreadful Neptune.'

In Henry V., of 'the furrowed sea,' 'the lofty surge,' 'the inconstant billows dancing;' in
Henry VI., Queen Margaret finds in the roughness of the English waters a presage of her approaching
wo; in Richard III., Clarence's dream figures to us all the horrors of 'the vasty deep;' in
Henry VIII., Wolsey indeed speaks of 'a sea of glory,' but also of his shipwreck thereon; in
The Tempest we read of 'the never surfeited sea,' and of the 'sea-marge sterile and rocky-hard;'
in the Midsummer's Night Dream, 'the sea' is 'rude,' and from it the winds 'suck up contagious
fogs;' Hamlet is as 'mad as the sea and wind;' the violence of Laertes and the insurgent Danes
is paralleled to an irruption of the sea, 'overpeering of his list;' in the well-known soliloquy
is the expression, 'a sea of troubles,' which, in spite of Pope's suggested and tasteless emendation,
commentators have shewn to have been used proverbially by the Greeks, and more than once by
Æschylus and Menander. Still, Shakspeare, again like Horace, was not insensible to the merits
of sea-air in a sanitary point of view. Dionyza, meditating Marina's murder, bids her take
what the Brighton doctor's call 'a constitutional' by the sea-side, adding that--

           ---- 'the air is quick there,
    Piercing and sharpens well the stomach.'

As to Burns, his most fervent admirer can scarcely complain when we involve him in the censure
to which we have already subjected Horace and Shakspeare. He, too, writes about the sea in
such a fashion, that we should hardly have suspected, what is true, that he was born almost
within hearing of its waves; that much of his life was passed on its shores or near them, and
that at a time of life when external objects most vividly impress themselves on the senses,
and exercise the largest influence on the taste.

The genius of 'Old Coila,' in sketching the poet's early life, says--

    'I saw thee seek the sounding shore,
    Delighted with the dashing roar;'

but few tokens of this 'delight' are to be observed in his poetry. He
has, indeed, his allusions to 'tumbling billows' and 'surging foam;'
to southern climes where 'wild-meeting oceans boil;' to 'life's rough
ocean' and 'life's stormy main;' to 'hard-blowing gales;' to the
'raging sea,' 'raging billows,' 'boundless oceans roaring wide,' and
the like; but these are the stock-metaphors of every poet, and would
be familiar to him even had he never overpassed the frontiers of
Bohemia.
    Severed from thee, can I survive?
    While through thy sweets she loves to stray,
      Oh! tell me, does she muse on me?'

This charming lyric, the pathetic tenderness of which commends it to every feeling heart, is
all that Burns has left in evidence that the sea had to him, at least, one poetic aspect.

CURIOSITIES OF CHESS.

More has perhaps been written about chess-playing than any other of the games which human ingenuity
has invented for recreative purposes, and it is not easy to foresee the time when dissertation
or discovery on the subject shall be brought to a satisfactory conclusion. Scarcely a year
passes that does not add something to our knowledge of the history of the royal game; and among
the latest additions, the able paper by Mr Bland, published in the Journal of the Royal Asiatic
Society, is not the least deserving of notice. It contains many curious particulars and remarks,
interspersed in its dry and technical narrative, sufficient to form a page or two of pleasant
reading for those--and they are not few--to whom chess is interesting.

We must premise that Mr Bland takes three but little-known Oriental manuscripts as the groundwork
of his observations; one of them, in the Persian character, is said to be 'probably unique,'
though, unfortunately, very imperfect. It bears no date or author's name, these being lost
with the missing portions, but the treatise itself contains internal evidence of very high
antiquity. The author, whoever he was, tells us that he had travelled much through Persia and
the adjacent countries, from the age of fifteen until the middle period of life, during which
he gained the knowledge and experience which enabled him to write his book. Besides which,
he measured his strength with many masters of the art of chess-playing, adding on each occasion
to his reputation as a conqueror: 'and whereas,' as he relates, 'the greater number of professors
were deficient in the art of playing without looking at the board, I myself played so against
four adversaries at once, and at the same time against another opponent in the usual manner,
and, by divine favour, won all the games.' Here, singularly enough, we find a Persian Staunton
making himself famous perhaps long before Norman William thought of invading Britain--so true
it is, that in mere intellectual achievements we have scarcely surpassed bygone generations.
He, the Persian, evidently entertained a comfortable idea of his own abilities; for he boasts
largely of the improvements and new moves or positions which he has introduced into the game.
He disputes, too, the authenticity of the belief, that chess was originally invented in India,
and that it was first introduced into Persia in the sixth century of our era by a physician,
whom Nushirwan had sent to seek for the work known as Pilpay's Fables. On the contrary, he
contends that chess, in its original and most developed form, is purely a Persian invention,
and that the modern game is but an abridgment of the ancient one. In how far this statement
is borne out by the fact, we have at present no means of knowing; and until some more complete
manuscript or other work shall be brought to light which may supply the want, we must rest
content with the account familiar to most readers--that chess was invented by an Indian physician
for the diversion of the monarch, his master, and the reward claimed in grains of corn, beginning
with one grain on the first square of the board, and doubling the number in regularly increasing
progression up to the last.

We may here briefly state what the ancient, or, as it is commonly called in the East, 'Timour's
Game,' was. It required a board with 110 squares and 56 men--almost as many again as are used
in modern chess--and the moves were extremely complicated and difficult to learn. The rectangularity
of the board was interrupted by four lateral squares, which served as a fort, or special point
of defence for the king, whose powers, as well as those of the other pieces, were in many respects
different from those at present known. 'Timour's mind,' we are told, 'was too exalted to play
at the Little Chess, and therefore he played only at the Great Chess, on a board of ten squares
by eleven, with the addition of two camels, two zarafahs,' and other pieces, with Persian designations.

Next we come to a complete chapter, entitled the 'Ten Advantages of Chess,' in which the views
and reasonings are eminently Oriental and characteristic. The first explains that food and
exercise are good for the mind as well as for the body, and that chess is a most excellent
means for quickening the intellect, and enabling it to gain knowledge. We question whether
the astronomer-royal ever suspected he was illustrating his own science when engaged in one
of his quiet games of chess with the master of trinity.

The sixth advantage is somewhat astrological in character: as there are four principal movements
of chess, these answer to the four physical temperaments, Cold, Warm, Dry, and Wet, which are
ruled by their respective planets; and thus each piece on the board is made to have its peculiar
significance in relation with the stars. Deceit is said to be of two kinds: that which deceives
others, and that which deceives ourselves. This is the condition of the wise man and foolish
man in playing chess.' From this it seems a descent to the tenth advantage, which is, that
chess combines war with sport; and pleasant allegories are made subservient to the inculcation
of sound truths and important principles.

Next comes an explanation of the mode in which Great Chess was played, with the nature and
value of the various moves. Among the hard technicalities with which it abounds, the writer
takes occasion to condemn the practice of giving a different value to the piece which may have
reached the end of the board; 'for,' as he says, 'what is more natural or just than that men
should occupy the station of their predecessors, and that the son of a king should become a
king, and a general's son attain the rank of a general.' An instance of rigid caste-law carried
into a harmless recreation.

In another manuscript, chess is shewn to have something to do with a man's fortunes: he who
could watch a game without speaking, was held to be discreet, and qualified for a government
office. And further, chess is not to be played 'when the mind is engaged with other objects,
nor when the stomach is full after a meal, neither when overcome by hunger, nor on the day
of taking a bath; nor, in general, while suffering under any pain, bodily or mental.'

Chess-playing without looking at the board, now taught by professors, and supposed to be a
comparatively modern art, was, as we have seen above, known and practised many centuries ago;
and among the instructions last quoted are those for playing the 'blindfold-game.' The player
is 'to picture to himself the board as divided first into two opposite sides, and then each
side into halves, those of the king and the queen, so that when his naib, or deputy, announces
that 'such a knight has been played to the second of the queen's rook,' or 'the queen to the
king's bishop's third,' he may immediately understand its effect on the position of the game.
This mode of playing, however, is not recommended to those who do not possess a powerful memory,
with great reflection and perseverance, 'without which no man can play blindfold.' These, with
other instructions, are followed by the author's remark, 'that some have arrived to such a
degree of perfection as to have played blindfold at four or five boards at a time, nor to have
made a mistake in any of the games, and to have recited poetry during the match;' and he adds:
'I have seen it written in a book, that a certain person played in this manner at ten boards
at once, and gained all the games, and even corrected his adversaries when a mistake was made.'

