"Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye" give Borrow's character and soul by direct and indirect means.
Their truth and fiction produce a consistent picture which we feel to be true.  Dr. Knapp has
shown, where the facts are accessible, that Borrow does not much neglect, mislay or pervert
them.  But neither Dr. Knapp nor anyone else has captured facts which would be of any significance
had Borrow told us nothing himself.  Some of the anecdotes lap a branch here and there; some
disclose a little rotten wood or fungus; others show the might of a great limb, perhaps a knotty
protuberance with a grotesque likeness, or the height of the whole; others again are like clumsy
arrogant initials carved on the venerable bark.  I shall use some of them, but for the most
part I shall use Borrow's own brush both to portray and to correct.

CHAPTER VII--PORTRAITS OF THE ARTIST

The five works of Borrow's maturity--from "The Zincali: or the Gypsies of Spain," written when
he had turned thirty, to "Wild Wales," written when he had turned fifty--have this in common,
and perhaps for their chief quality, that of set purpose and by inevitable accident they reveal
Borrow, the body and the spirit of the man.  Together they compose a portrait, if not a small
gallery of portraits.  Of these the most deliberate is the one that emerges from "Lavengro"
and "The Romany Rye." In these books, written after he had passed forty, he described the first
twenty-two years of his life, without, so far as is known, using any notebooks or other contemporary
documents.  As I have said before, the literal accuracy of such a description must have been
limited by his power and his willingness to see things as they were.  In some ways there is
no greater stranger to the youth of twenty than the man of forty who was once that youth, and
if he overcomes that strangeness it is often by the perilous process of concealing the strangeness
and the difference. The result is--or is it an individual misfortune of mine?--that the figure
of "Lavengro" seems to me, more often than not, and on the whole, to be nearer the age of forty
than of twenty.  The artist, that is to say, dominates his subject, the tall overgrown youth
of twenty-two, as grey as a badger.  It is very different in "The Bible in Spain," where artist
and subject are equally matched, and both mature.  In "Lavengro" there is a roundabout method,
a painful poring subtlety and minuteness, a marvellous combination of Sterne and Defoe, resulting
in something very little like any book written by either man: in "The Bible in Spain" a straightforward,
confident, unqualified revelation that seems almost unconsidered.

CHAPTER VIII--CHILDHOOD

And now for some raw bones of the life of a man who was born in 1803 and died in 1881, bones
picked white and dry by the winds of thirty, forty, fifty, and a hundred years.

Thomas Borrow, his father, an eighth and youngest son, was born in 1758 of a yeoman family
long and still settled in Cornwall, near Liskeard.  He worked for some time on his brother's
farm.  At nineteen he joined the Militia and was apprenticed to a maltster, but, having knocked
his master down in a free fight at Menheniot Fair in 1783, disappeared and enlisted as a private
in the Coldstream Guards.  He was then a man of fresh complexion and light brown hair, just
under five feet eight inches in height.  He was a sergeant when he was transferred nine years
later to the West Norfolk Regiment of Militia.  In 1798 he was promoted to the office of adjutant
with the rank of captain.  In 1793 he had married Ann Perfrement, a tenant farmer's daughter
from East Dereham, and probably of French Protestant descent, whom he had first met when she
was playing a minor part as an amateur at East Dereham with a company from the Theatre Royal
at Norwich.  She had, says Borrow, dark brilliant eyes, oval face, olive complexion, and Grecian
forehead.

The first child of this marriage, John Thomas, was born in 1800.  Borrow describes this elder
brother as a beautiful child of "rosy, angelic face, blue eyes and light chestnut hair," yet
of "not exactly an Anglo-Saxon countenance," having something of "the Celtic character, particularly
in the fire and vivacity which illumined it."  John was his father's favourite.  He entered
the army and became a lieutenant, but also, and especially after the end of the war, a painter,
studying under B. R. Haydon and old Crome.  He went out to Mexico in the service of a mining
company in 1826, and died there in 1834.

George Borrow was born in 1803 at another station of the regiment, East Dereham.  He calls
himself a gloomy child, a "lover of nooks and retired corners . . . sitting for hours together
with my head on my breast . . . conscious of a peculiar heaviness within me, and at times of
a strange sensation of fear, which occasionally amounted to horror, and for which I could assign
no real cause whatever."  A maidservant thought him a little wrong in the head, but a Jew pedlar
rebuked her for saying so, and said the child had "all the look of one of our people's children,"
and praised his bright eyes.  With the regiment he travelled along the Sussex and Kent coast
during the next four years.  They were at Pett in 1806, and there he tells us that he first
handled a viper, fearless and unharmed. In 1806 also they were at Hythe, where he saw the skulls
of the Danes. They were at Canterbury in 1807, and near there was the scene of his eating the
"green, red, and purple" berries from the hedge and suffering convulsions.  They were, says
Dr. Knapp, from the regimental records, never at Winchester, but at Winchelsea.  In 1809 and
1810 they were back at Dereham, which was then the home of Eleanor Fenn, his "Lady Bountiful,"
widow of the editor of the "Paston Letters," Sir John Fenn. He had "increased rapidly in size
and in strength," but not in mind, and could read only imperfectly until "Robinson Crusoe"
drew him out.  He went to church twice on Sundays, and never heard God's name without a tremor,
"for I now knew that God was an awful and inscrutable being, the maker of all things; that
we were His children, and that we, by our sins, had justly offended Him; that we were in very
great peril from His anger, not so much in this life as in another and far stranger state of
being yet to come; that we had a Saviour withal to whom it was necessary to look for help:
upon this point, however, I was yet very much in the dark, as, indeed, were most of those with
whom I was connected.  The power and terrors of God were uppermost in my thoughts; they fascinated
though they astounded me."

{picture: Borrow's birth-place, East Dereham, Norfolk.  Photo: H. T. Cave, East Dereham: page57.jpg}

Later in 1810 he was at Norman Cross, in Huntingdonshire, and was free to wander alone by Whittlesea
Mere.  There he met the old viper-hunter and herbalist, into whose mouth he puts the tale of
the King of the Vipers. There he met the Gypsies.  He answered their threats with a viper that
had lain hid in his breast; they called him "Sapengro, a chap who catches snakes and plays
tricks with them."  He was sworn brother to Jasper, the son, who despised him for being puny.

The Borrows were at Dereham again in 1811, and George went to school "for the acquisition of
Latin," and learnt the whole of Lilly's Grammar by heart.

He mentions the frequent fights at the High School and the pitched battles between the Old
and the New Town.  Climbing the Castle Rock was his favourite diversion, and on one "horrible
edge" he came upon David Haggart sitting and thinking of William Wallace:

"And why were ye thinking of him?" Borrow says that he asked the lad. "The English hanged him
long since, as I have heard say."

"I was thinking," he answered, "that I should wish to be like him."

"Do ye mean," Borrow says that he said, "that ye would wish to be hanged?"

This youth was a drummer boy in Captain Borrow's regiment.  Borrow describes him upsetting
the New Town champion in one of the bickers. Seven years later he was condemned to death at
Edinburgh, and to earn a little money for his mother he dictated an account of his life to
the prison chaplain before he died.  It was published in 1821 with the title: "The Life of
David Haggart, alias John Wilson, alias John Morison, alias Barney M'Coul, alias John M'Colgan,
alias David O'Brien, alias the Switcher.  Written by himself, while under sentence of death."
It is worth reading, notable in itself and for its style.

He was a gamekeeper's son, and being a merry boy was liberally tipped by sportsmen.  Yet he
ran away from home at the age of ten.  One of his first exploits was the stealing of a bantam
cock.  It belonged to a woman at the back of the New Town of Edinburgh, says he, and he took
a great fancy to it, "for it was a real beauty and I offered to buy, but mistress would not
sell, so I got another cock, and set the two a fighting, and then off with my prize."  This
is like Mr. W. B. Yeats' Paddy Cockfight in "Where there is nothing"; he got a fighting cock
from a man below Mullingar--"The first day I saw him I fastened my eyes on him, he preyed on
my mind, and next night if I didn't go back every foot of nine miles to put him in my bag."
When he was twelve he got drunk at the Leith races and enlisted in the Norfolk Militia, which
had a recruiting party for patriots at the races.  "I learned," he says, "to beat the drum
very well in the course of three months, and afterwards made considerable progress in blowing
the bugle-horn.  I liked the red coat and the soldiering well enough for a while, but soon
tired.  We were too much confined, and there was too little pay for me;" and so he got his
discharge.  "The restraining influences of military discipline," says Dr. Knapp, "gradually
wore away."  He went back to school even, but in vain.  He was "never happier in his life"
than when he "fingered all this money"-- 200 pounds acquired by theft.  He worked at his trade
of thieving in many parts of Scotland and Ireland.  As early as 1818 he was sentenced to death,
but escaped, and, being recognised by a policeman, killed him and got clear away.  He served
one or two sentences and escaped from another.  He escaped a third time, with a friend, after
hitting the gaoler in such a manner that he afterwards died.  The friend was caught at once,
but David ran well--"never did a fox double the hounds in better style"--and got away in woman's
clothes.  As he was resting in a haystack after his run of ten miles in an hour, he heard a
woman ask "if that lad was taken that had broken out of Dumfries Gaol," and the answer: "No;
but the gaoler died last night at ten o'clock."  He got arrested in Ireland through sheer carelessness,
was recognised and taken in irons to Dumfries again--and so he died.

In 1814 and 1815 Borrow was for a time at the Grammar School at Norwich, but sailed with the
regiment "in the autumn of the year 1815" for Ireland.  "On the eighth day of our voyage,"
he says, "we were in sight of Ireland.  The weather was now calm and serene, the sun shone
brightly on the sea and on certain green hills in the distance, on which I descried what at
first sight I believed to be two ladies gathering flowers, which, however, on our near approach,
proved to be two tall white towers, doubtless built for some purpose or other, though I did
not learn for what." From a schoolfellow he learnt something of the Irish tongue in exchange
for a pack of cards.

School, he says, had helped him to cast aside, in a great degree, his unsocial habits and natural
reserve, and when he moved to Templemore, where there was no school, he roamed about the wild
country, "sometimes entering the cabins of the peasantry with a 'God's blessing upon you good
people!'"  Here, as in Scotland, he seems to have done as he liked.  His father had other things
to do than look after the child whom he was later on to upbraid for growing up in a displeasing
way.  Ireland made a strong impression upon the boy, if we may judge from his writing about
it when he looked back on those days.  He recalls, in "Wild Wales," hearing the glorious tune
of "Croppies lie Down" in the barrack yard at Clonmel. Again and again he recalls Murtagh,
the wild Irish boy who taught him Irish for a pack of cards.  In Ireland he learnt to be "a
frank rider" without a saddle, and had awakened in him his "passion for the equine race": and
here he had his cob shoed by a "fairy smith" who first roused the animal to a frenzy by uttering
a strange word "in a sharp pungent tone," and then calmed it by another word "in a voice singularly
modified but sweet and almost plaintive."  Above all there is a mystery which might easily
be called Celtic about his memories of Ireland, due chiefly to something in his own blood,
but also to the Irish atmosphere which evoked that something in its perfection.

After less than a year in Ireland the regiment was back at Norwich, and war being at an end,
the men were mustered out in 1815.

{picture: Borrow's Court, Norwich.  Photo: Jarrold & Sons, Norwich: page61.jpg}

CHAPTER IX--SCHOOLDAYS

The Borrows now settled at Norwich in what was then King's Court and is now Borrow's Court,
off Willow Lane.  George Borrow, therefore, again attended the Grammar School of Norwich. 
He could then, he says, read Greek.  His father's dissatisfaction was apparently due to some
instinctive antipathy for the child, who had neither his hair nor his eyes, but was "absolutely
swarthy, God forgive me!  I had almost said like that of a Gypsy."  As in Scotland and Ireland,
so now at Norwich, Captain Borrow probably let the boy do what he liked.  As for Mrs. Borrow,
perhaps she favoured the boy, who took after her in eyes and complexion, if not also in temperament.
Her influence was of an unconscious kind, strengthening her prenatal influence; unlike her
husband, she had no doubt that "Providence" would take care of the boy. Borrow, at least, thought
her like himself.  In a suppressed portion of the twentieth chapter of "Lavengo" he makes his
parents talk together in the garden, and the mother having a story to tell suggests their going
in because it is growing dark.  The father says that a tale of terror is the better for being
told in the dark, and hopes she is not afraid.  The mother scoffs at the mention of fear, and
yet, she says, she feels a thrill as if something were casting a cold shadow on her.  She wonders
if this feeling is like the indescribable fear, "which he calls the shadow," which sometimes
attacks her younger child.  "Never mind the child or his shadow," says the father, and bids
her go on.  And from what follows the mother has evidently told the story before to her son.
This dialogue may very well express the contrast between husband and wife and their attitudes
towards their younger son.  Borrow very eloquently addresses his father as "a noble specimen
of those strong single-minded Englishmen, who, without making a parade either of religion or
loyalty, feared God and honoured their king, and were not particularly friendly to the French,"
and as a pugilist who almost vanquished the famous Ben Bryan; but he does not conceal the fact
that he was "so little to thee that thou understoodst me not."

At Norwich Grammar School Borrow had as schoolfellows James Martineau and James Brooke, afterwards
Rajah of Sarawak.  The headmaster was one Edward Valpy, who thrashed Borrow, and there is nothing
more to be said.  The boy was fond of study but not of school.  "For want of something better
to do," he taught himself some French and Italian, but wished he had a master.  A master was
found in a French emigre, the Rev. Thomas D'Eterville, who gave private lessons to Borrow,
among others, in French, Italian and Spanish.  His other teachers were an old musket with which
he shot bullfinches, blackbirds and linnets, a fishing rod with which he haunted the Yare,
and the sporting gent, John Thurtell, who taught him to box and accustomed him to pugilism.

Something is known of Thurtell apart from Borrow.  He was the son of a man who was afterwards
Mayor of Norwich.  He had been a soldier and he was now in business.  He arranged prize fights
and boxed himself.  He afterwards murdered a man who had dishonestly relieved him of 400 pounds
at gambling, and he was executed for the offence at Hertford in 1824.  The trial was celebrated.
It was there that a "respectable" man was defined by a witness as one who "kept a gig."  The
trial was included in the "Celebrated Trials and Remarkable Cases of Criminal Jurisprudence"
which Borrow compiled in 1825; and Borrow may have written this description of the accused:

"Thurtell was dressed in a plum-coloured frock coat, with a drab waistcoat and gilt buttons,
and white corded breeches.  His neck had a black stock on, which fitted as usual stiffly up
to the bottom of the cheek and end of the chin, and which therefore pushed forward the flesh
on this part of the face so as to give an additionally sullen weight to the countenance.  The
lower part of the face was unusually large, muscular and heavy, and appeared to hang like a
load to the head, and to make it drop like the mastiff's jowl.  The upper lip was long and
large, and the mouth had a severe and dogged appearance.  His nose was rather small for such
a face, but it was not badly shaped; his eyes, too, were small and buried deep under his protruding
forehead, so indeed as to defy detection of their colour.  The forehead was extremely strong,
bony and knotted--and the eyebrows were forcibly marked though irregular--that over the right
eye being nearly straight and that on the left turning up to a point so as to give a very painful
expression to the whole face.  His hair was of a good lightish brown, and not worn after any
fashion.  His frame was exceedingly well knit and athletic."

An eye witness reports that seven hours before his execution, Thurtell said: "It is perhaps
wrong in my situation, but I own I should like to read Pierce Egan's account of the great fight
yesterday" (meaning that between Spring and Langan).  He slept well through his last night,
and said: "I have dreamt many odd things, but I never dreamt anything about this business since
I have been in Hertford."  Pierce Egan described the trial and execution, and how Thurtell
bowed in a friendly and dignified manner to someone--"we believe, Mr. Pierce Egan"--in the
crowd about the gallows.  Pierce Egan did not mention the sound of his cracking neck, but Borrow
is reported to have said it was a shame to hang such a man as Thurtell: "Why, when his neck
broke it went off like a pistol."

Thurtell is the second of Borrow's friends who preceded him in fame.

During his school days under Valpy, Borrow met his sworn brother again--the Gypsy Petulengro.
He places this meeting at the Tombland Fair at Norwich, and Dr. Knapp fixes it, precisely,
on March 19, 1818. According to Borrow's account, which is the only one, he was shadowed and
then greeted by Jasper Petulengro.  They went together to the Gypsy encampment on Household
Heath, and they were together there often again, in spite of the hostility of one Gypsy, Mrs.
Herne, to Borrow.  He says that he went with them to fairs and markets and learnt their language
in spite of Mrs. Herne, so that they called him Lav-engro, or Word Master. The mighty Tawno
Chikno also called him Cooro-mengro, because of his mastery with the fist.  He was then sixteen.
He is said to have stained his face to darken it further, and to have been asked by Valpy:
"Is that jaundice or only dirt, Borrow?"

CHAPTER X--LEAVING SCHOOL

With so much liberty Borrow desired more.  He played truant and, as we have seen, was thrashed
for it.  He was soon to leave school for good, though there is nothing to prove that he left
on account of this escapade, or that the thrashing produced the "symptoms of a rapid decline,"
with a failure of strength and appetite, which he speaks of in the eighteenth chapter of "Lavengro,"
after the Gypsies had gone away.  He was almost given over by the physicians, he tells us,
but cured by an "ancient female, a kind of doctress," with a decoction of "a bitter root which
grows on commons and desolate places."  An attack of "the dark feeling of mysterious dread"
came with convalescence.

But "never during any portion of my life did time flow on more speedily," he says, than during
the next two or three years.  After some hesitation between Church and Law, he was articled
in 1819 to Messrs. Simpson and Rackham, solicitors, of Tuck's Court, St. Giles', Norwich, and
he lived with Simpson in the Upper Close.  As a friend said, the law was an excellent profession
for those who never intend to follow it.  As Borrow himself said, "I have ever loved to be
as explicit as possible; on which account, perhaps, I never attained to any proficiency in
the law."  Borrow sat faithfully at his desk and learned a good deal of Welsh, Danish, Hebrew,
Arabic, Gaelic, and Armenian, making translations from these languages in prose and verse.
In "Wild Wales" he recalls translating Danish poems "over the desk of his ancient master, the
gentleman solicitor of East Anglia," and learning Welsh by reading a Welsh "Paradise Lost"
side by side with the original, and by having lessons on Sunday afternoons at his father's
house from a groom named Lloyd.

His chief master was William Taylor, the "Anglo-Germanist" of "Lavengro." Taylor was born in
1765.  He studied in Germany as a youth and returned to England with a great enthusiasm for
German literature.  He translated Goethe's "Iphigenia" (1793), Lessing's "Nathan" (1791), Wieland's
"Dialogues of the Gods," etc. (1795); he published "Tales of Yore," translated from several
languages, and a "Letter concerning the two first chapters of Luke," in 1810, "English Synonyms
discriminated" in 1813, and an "Historical Survey of German Poetry," interspersed with various
translations, in 1823-30.  He was bred among Unitarians, read Hume, Voltaire and Rousseau,
disliked the Church, and welcomed the French Revolution, though he was no friend to "the cause
of national ambition and aggrandisement."  He belonged to a Revolution Society at Norwich,
and in 1790 wrote from Paris calling the National Assembly "that well-head of philosophical
legislation, whose pure streams are now overflowing the fairest country upon earth and will
soon be sluiced off into the other realms of Europe, fertilising all with the living energy
of its waters." In 1791 he and his father withdrew their capital from manufacture and William
Taylor devoted himself to literature.  Hazlitt speaks of the "style of philosophical criticism
which has been the boast of the 'Edinburgh Review,'" as first introduced into the "Monthly
Review" by Taylor in 1796.  Scott said that Taylor's translation of Burger's "Lenore" made
him a poet.  Sir James Mackintosh learned the Taylorian language for the sake of the man's
"vigour and originality"--"As the Hebrew is studied for one book, so is the Taylorian by me
for one author."

{picture: William Taylor, of Norwich: page66.jpg}

I will give a few hints at the nature of his speculation.  In one of his letters he speaks
of stumbling on "the new hypothesis that the Nebuchadnezzar of Scripture is the Cyrus of Greek
History," and second, that "David, the Jew, a favourite of this prince, wrote all those oracles
scattered in Isaiah, Jeremiah and Ezekiel relative to his enterprises, for the particularisation
of which they afford ample materials."  Writing of his analysis, in the "Critical Review,"
of Paulus' Commentary on the New Testament, he blames the editor for a suppression--"an attempt
to prove, from the first and second chapter of Luke, that Zacharias, who wrote these chapters,
meant to hold himself out as the father of Jesus Christ as well as of John the Baptist.  The
Jewish idea of being conceived of the Holy Ghost did not exclude the idea of human parentage.
The rabbinical commentator on Genesis explains this."  He was called "Godless Billy Taylor,"
but says he: "When I publish my other pamphlet in proof of the great truth that Jesus Christ
wrote the 'Wisdom' and translated the 'Ecclesiasticus' from the Hebrew of his grandfather Hillel,
you will be convinced (that I am convinced) that I and I alone am a precise and classical Christian;
the only man alive who thinks concerning the person and doctrines of Christ what he himself
thought and taught."  His "Letter concerning the two first chapters of Luke" has the further
title, "Who was the father of Christ?"  He calls "not absolutely indefensible" the opinion
of the anonymous German author of the "Natural History of Jesus of Nazareth," that Joseph of
Arimathaea was the father of Jesus Christ.  He mentions that "a more recent anonymous theorist,
with greater plausibility, imagines that the acolytes employed in the Temple of Jerusalem were
called by the names of angels, Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, accordingly as they were stationed
behind, beside, or before, the mercy-seat; and that the Gabriel of the Temple found means to
impose on the innocence of the virgin."  "This," he says, "is in many ways compatible with
Mary's having faithfully given the testimony put together by Luke."  He gives at great length
the arguments in favour of Zacharias as the father, and tells Josephus' story of Mundus and
Paulina. {68}

Norwich was then "a little Academe among provincial cities," as Mr. Seccombe calls it; he continues:

"Among the high lights of the illuminated capital of East Anglia were the Cromes, the Opies,
John Sell Cotman, Elizabeth Fry, Dr. William Enfield (of Speaker fame), and Dr. Rigby, the
father of Lady Eastlake; but pre- eminent above all reigned the twin cliques of Taylors and
Martineaus, who amalgamated at impressive intervals for purposes of mutual elevation and refinement.

"The salon of Susannah Taylor, the mother of Sarah Austin, the wife of John Taylor, hymn writer
and deacon of the seminal chapel, the once noted Octagon, in Norwich, included in its zenith
Sir James Mackintosh, Mrs. Barbauld, Crabb Robinson, the solemn Dr. John Alderson, Amelia Opie,
Henry Reeve of Edinburgh fame, Basil Montagu, the Sewards, the Quaker Gurneys of Earlham, and
Dr. Frank Sayers, whom the German critics compared to Gray, who had handled the Norse mythology
in poetry, to which Borrow was introduced by Sayer's private biographer, the eminent and aforesaid
William Taylor" [no relation of the "Taylors of Norwich"] "whose 'Jail-delivery of German Studies'
the jealous Thomas Carlyle stigmatized in 1830 as the work of a natural-born English Philistine."

Nevertheless, in spite of the Taylors and the Martineaus, says William Taylor's biographer,
Robberds: "The love of society almost necessarily produces the habit of indulging in the pleasures
of the table; and, though he cannot be charged with having carried this to an immoderate excess,
still the daily repetition of it had taxed too much the powers of nature and exhausted them
before the usual period."  Taylor died in 1836 and was remembered best for his drinking and
for his bloated appearance. Harriet Martineau wrote of him in her autobiography:

"William Taylor was managed by a regular process, first of feeding, then of wine-bibbing, and
immediately after of poking to make him talk: and then came his sayings, devoured by the gentlemen
and making ladies and children aghast;--defences of suicide, avowals that snuff alone had rescued
him from it: information given as certain that 'God Save the King' was sung by Jeremiah in
the Temple of Solomon,--that Christ was watched on the day of His supposed ascension, and observed
to hide Himself till dark, and then to make His way down the other side of the mountain; and
other such plagiarisms from the German Rationalists.  When William Taylor began with 'I firmly
believe,' we knew that something particularly incredible was coming. . . . His virtues as a
son were before our eyes when we witnessed his endurance of his father's brutality of temper
and manners, and his watchfulness in ministering to the old man's comfort in his infirmities.
When we saw, on a Sunday morning, William Taylor guiding his blind mother to chapel, and getting
her there with her shoes as clean as if she had crossed no gutters in those flint- paved streets,
we could forgive anything that had shocked or disgusted us at the dinner table.  But matters
grew worse in his old age, when his habits of intemperance kept him out of the sight of the
ladies, and he got round him a set of ignorant and conceited young men, who thought they could
set the world right by their destructive tendencies.  One of his chief favourites was George
Borrow. . . ."

Another of "the harum-scarum young men" taken up by Taylor and introduced "into the best society
the place afforded," writes Harriet Martineau, was Polidori.

Borrow was introduced to Taylor in 1820 by "Mousha," the Jew who taught him Hebrew.  Taylor
"took a great interest" in him and taught him German. "What I tell Borrow once," he said, "he
ever remembers."  In 1821 Taylor wrote to Southey, who was an early friend:

"A Norwich young man is construing with me Schiller's 'Wilhelm Tell,' with the view of translating
it for the Press.  His name is George Henry Borrow, and he has learnt German with extraordinary
rapidity; indeed he has the gift of tongues, and, though not yet eighteen, understands twelve
languages--English, Welsh, Erse, Latin, Greek, Hebrew, German, Danish, French, Italian, Spanish
and Portuguese; he would like to get into the Office for Foreign Affairs, but does not know how."

Borrow was at that time a "reserved and solitary" youth, tall, spare, dark complexioned and
usually dressed in black, who used to be seen hanging about the Close and talking through the
railings of his garden to some of the Grammar School boys.  He was a noticeable youth, and
he told his father that a lady had painted him and compared his face to that of Alfieri's Saul.

{picture: Tuck's Court, Norwich.  Photo: Jarrold & Sons, Norwich: page70.jpg}

Borrow pleased neither his master nor his father by his knowledge of languages, though it was
largely acquired in the lawyer's office.  "The lad is too independent by half," Borrow makes
his father say, after painting a filial portrait of the old man, "with locks of silver gray
which set off so nobly his fine bold but benevolent face, his faithful consort at his side,
and his trusty dog at his feet."  Nor did the youth please himself.  He was languid again,
tired even of the Welsh poet, Ab Gwilym.  He was anxious about his father, who was low spirited
over his elder son's absence in London as a painter, and over his younger son's misconduct
and the "strange notions and doctrines"--especially the doctrine that everyone has a right
to dispose as he thinks best of that which is his own, even of his life--which he had imbibed
from Taylor. Taylor was "fond of getting hold of young men and, according to orthodox accounts,
doing them a deal of harm." {71a}  His views, says Dr. Knapp, sank deep "into the organism
of his pupil," and "would only be eradicated, if at all, through much suffering."  Dr. Knapp
thought that the execution of Thurtell ought to have produced a "favourable change in his mode
of thinking"--as if prize fighting and murder were not far more common among Christians than
atheists.  But if Borrow had never met Taylor he would have met someone else, atheist or religious
enthusiast, who would have lured him from the straight, smooth, flowery path of orthodoxy;
otherwise he might have been a clergyman or he might have been Dr. Knapp, but he would not
have been George Borrow.  "What is truth?" he asked.  "Would that I had never been born!" he
said to himself.  And it was an open air ranter, not a clergyman or unobtrusive godly man,
that made him exclaim: "Would that my life had been like his--even like that man's."  Then
the Gypsy reminded him of "the wind on the heath" and the boxing gloves.

When his father asked Borrow what he proposed to do, {71b} seeing that he was likely to do
nothing at law, he had nothing to suggest.  Southey apparently could not help him to the Foreign
Office.  The only opening that can have seemed possible to him was literature.  He might, for
example, produce a volume of translations like the "Specimen of Russian Poets" (1820) of John
Bowring, whom he met at Taylor's.  Bowring, a man of twenty-nine in 1821, was the head of a
commercial firm and afterwards a friend of Borrow and the author of many translations from
Russian, Dutch, Spanish, Polish, Servian, Hungarian and Bohemian song.  He was, as the "Old
Radical" of "The Romany Rye," Borrow's victim in his lifetime, and after his death the victim
of Dr. Knapp as the supposed false friend of his hero.  The mud thrown at him had long since
dried, and has now been brushed off in a satisfactory manner by Mr. R. A. J. Walling. {72}

{picture: Tom Shelton, Jack Randall: page72.jpg}

CHAPTER XI--LITERATURE AND LANGUAGES

When Borrow was in his nineteenth year--according to Dr. Knapp's estimate--he told his father
what he had done: "I have learned Welsh, and have translated the songs of Ab Gwilym, some ten
thousand lines, into English rhyme.  I have also learnt Danish, and have rendered the old book
of Ballads into English metre.  I have learned many other tongues, and have acquired some knowledge
even of Hebrew and Arabic."  He read and conversed with William Taylor; he read alone in the
Guildhall of Norwich, where the Corporation Library offered him the books from which he gained
"his knowledge of Anglo-Saxon and early English, Welsh or British, Northern or Scandinavian
learning"--so writes Dr. Knapp, who has seen the "neat young pencilled notes" of Borrow in
Edmund Lhuyd's 'Archaeologia Britannica' and the 'Danica Literatura Antiquissima' of Olaus
Wormius, etc.  He tells us himself that he passed entire nights in reading an old Danish book,
till he was almost blind.

In 1823 Borrow began to publish his translations.  Taylor introduced him to Thomas Campbell,
then editor of the "New Monthly," and to Sir Richard Phillips, editor and proprietor of the
"Monthly Magazine."  Both editors printed Borrow's works.

Sir Richard Phillips was particularly flattering: he used Borrow's article on "Danish Poetry
and Ballad Writing" and about six hundred lines of translation from German, Danish, Swedish
and Dutch poetry in the first year of the connection, usually with the signature, "George Olaus
Borrow."  I will quote only one specimen, his version of Goethe's "Erl King" ("Monthly Magazine,"
December, 1823):

   Who is it that gallops so late on the wild!
   O it is the father that carries his child!
   He presses him close in his circling arm,
   To save him from cold, and to shield him from harm.

   "Dear baby, what makes ye your countenance hide?"
   "Spur, father, your courser and rowel his side;
   The Erl-King is chasing us over the heath;"
   "Peace, baby, thou seest a vapoury wreath?"

   "Dear boy, come with me, and I'll join in your sport,
   And show ye the place where the fairies resort;
   My mother, who dwells in the cool pleasant mine
   Shall clothe thee in garments so fair and so fine."

   "My father, my father, in mercy attend,
   And hear what is said by the whispering fiend."
   "Be quiet, be quiet, my dearly-loved child;
   'Tis naught but the wind as it stirs in the wild."

   "Dear baby, if thou wilt but venture with me,
   My daughter shall dandle thy form on her knee;
   My daughter, who dwells where the moon-shadows play,
   Shall lull ye to sleep with the song of the fay."

   "My father, my father, and seest thou not
   His sorceress daughter in yonder dark spot?"
   "I see something truly, thou dear little fool,--
   I see the great alders that hang by the pool."

   "Sweet baby, I doat on that beautiful form,
   And thou shalt ride with me the wings of the storm."
   "O father, my father, he grapples me now,
   And already has done me a mischief, I vow."

   The father was terrified, onward he press'd,
   And closer he cradled the child to his breast,
   And reach'd the far cottage, and, wild with alarm,
   He found that the baby hung dead on his arm!

The only criticism that need be passed on this is that any man of some intelligence and patience
can hope to do as well: he seldom wrote any verse that was either much better or much worse.
At the same time it must not be forgotten that the success of the translation is no measure
of the impression made on the young Borrow by the legend.

His translations from Ab Gwilym are not interesting either to lovers of that poet or to lovers
of Borrow: some are preserved in a sort of life in death in the pages of "Wild Wales."

From the German he had also translated F. M. Von Klinger's "Faustus: his life, death and descent
into hell."  {75a}  The preface announces that "although scenes of vice and crime are here
exhibited, it is merely in the hope that they may serve as beacons, to guide the ignorant and
unwary from the shoals on which they might otherwise be wrecked."  He insisted, furthermore,
that the book contained "the highly useful advice," that everyone should bear their lot in
patience and not seek "at the expense of his repose to penetrate into those secrets which the
spirit of man, while dressed in the garb of mortality cannot and must not unveil. . . . To
the mind of man all is dark; he is an enigma to himself; let him live, therefore, in the hope
of once seeing clearly; and happy indeed is he who in that manner passeth his days."

From the Danish of Johannes Evald, he translated "The Death of Balder," a play, into blank
verse with consistently feminine endings, as in this speech of Thor to Balder: {75b}

   How long dost think, degenerate son of Odin,
   Unmanly pining for a foolish maiden,
   And all the weary train of love-sick follies,
   Will move a bosom that is steel'd by virtue?
   Thou dotest!  Dote and weep, in tears swim ever;
   But by thy father's arm, by Odin's honour,
   Haste, hide thy tears and thee in shades of alder!
   Haste to the still, the peace-accustom'd valley,
   Where lazy herdsmen dance amid the clover.
   There wet each leaf which soft the west wind kisses,
   Each plant which breathes around voluptuous odours,
   With tears!  There sigh and moan, and the tired peasant
   Shall hear thee, and, behind his ploughshare resting,
   Shall wonder at thy grief, and pity Balder!

There are lyrics interspersed.  The following is sung by three Valkyries marching round the
cauldron before Rota dips the fatal spear that she is to present to Hother:

   In juice of rue
   And trefoil too;
   In marrow of bear
      And blood of Trold,
   Be cool'd the spear,
      Threetimes cool'd,
   When hot from blazes
   Which Nastroud raises
      For Valhall's May.

   1st Valk.  Whom it woundeth,
   It shall slay.

   2nd Whom it woundeth,
   It shall slay.

   3rd Whom it woundeth,
   It shall slay.

In 1826 he was to publish "Romantic Ballads," translated from the Gaelic, Danish, Norse, Swedish,
and German, with eight original pieces.  He "hoped shortly" to publish a complete translation
of the "Kjaempe Viser" and of Gaelic songs, made by him "some years ago."  Few of these are
valuable or interesting, but I must quote "Svend Vonved" because Borrow himself so often refers
to it.  The legend haunted him of "that strange melancholy Swayne Vonved, who roams about the
world propounding people riddles; slaying those who cannot answer, and rewarding those who
can with golden bracelets."  When he was walking alone in wild weather in Cornwall he roared
it aloud:

   Svend Vonved sits in his lonely bower;
   He strikes his harp with a hand of power;
   His harp returned a responsive din;
   Then came his mother hurrying in:
      Look out, look out, Svend Vonved.

   In came his mother Adeline,
   And who was she, but a queen so fine:
   "Now hark, Svend Vonved! out must thou ride
   And wage stout battle with knights of pride."
      Look out, look out, Svend Vonved.

   "Avenge thy father's untimely end;
   To me, or another, thy gold harp lend;
   This moment boune thee, and straight begone!
   I rede thee, do it, my own dear son."
      Look out, look out, Svend Vonved.

   Svend Vonved binds his sword to his side;
   He fain will battle with knights of pride.
   "When may I look for thee once more here?
   When roast the heifer and spice the beer?"
      Look out, look out, Svend Vonved.

   "When stones shall take, of themselves, a flight
   And ravens' feathers are waxen white,
   Then may'st thou expect Svend Vonved home:
   In all my days, I will never come."
      Look out, look out, Svend Vonved.

If we did not know that Borrow used these verses as a kind of incantation we should be sorry
to have read them.  But one of the original pieces in this book is as good in itself as it
is interesting.

This is already pure Borrow, with a vigour excusing if not quite transmuting its rant.  He
creates a sort of hero in his own image, and it should be read as an introduction and invocation
to "Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye."  It is one of the few contemporary records of Borrow at
about the age when he wrote "Celebrated Trials," made horse-shoes and fought the Blazing Tinman.

The only other verse of his which can be remembered for any good reason is this song from the
Romany, included among the translations from thirty languages and dialects which he published,
in 1835, with the title of "Targum," and the appropriate motto: "The raven has ascended to
the nest of the nightingale."

It will not be necessary to say anything more about Borrow's verses. Poetry for him was above
all declamatory sentiment or wild narrative, and so he never wrote, and perhaps never cared
much for poetry, except ballads and his contemporary Byron.  He desired, as he said in the
note to "Romantic Ballads," not the merely harmonious but the grand, and he condemned the modern
muse for "the violent desire to be smooth and tuneful, forgetting that smoothness and tunefulness
are nearly synonymous with tameness and unmeaningness."  He once said of Keats: "They are attempting
to resuscitate him, I believe."  He regarded Wordsworth as a soporific merely.

CHAPTER XII--LONDON

Early in 1824, and just before George Borrow's articles with the solicitors expired, Captain
Borrow died.  He left all that he had to his widow, with something for the maintenance and
education of the younger son during his minority.  Borrow had already planned to go to London,
to write, to abuse religion and to get himself prosecuted.  A month later, the day after the
expiration of his articles, before he had quite reached his majority, he went up to London.
He was "cast upon the world" in no very hopeful condition.  He had lately been laid up again--was
it by the "fear" or something else?--by a complaint which destroyed his strength, impaired
his understanding and threatened his life, as he wrote to a friend: he was taking mercury for
a cure.  But he had his translations from Ab Gwilym and his romantic ballads, and he believed
in them.  He took them to Sir Richard Phillips, who did not believe in them, and had moreover
given up publishing.  According to his own account, which is very well known (Lavengro, chapter
XXX.), Sir Richard suggested that he should write something in the style of the "Dairyman's
Daughter" instead.

Men of this generation, fortunate at least in this ignorance, probably think of the "Dairyman's
Daughter" as a fictitious title, like the "Oxford Review" (which stood for "The Universal Review")
and the "Newgate Lives" (which should have been "Celebrated Trials," etc.).  But such a book
really was published in 1811.  It was an "authentic narrative" by a clergyman of the Church
of England named Legh Richmond, who thought it "delightful to trace and discover the operations
of Divine love among the poorer classes of mankind."  The book was about the conversion and
holy life and early death of a pale, delicate, consumptive dairyman's daughter in the Isle
of Wight.  It became famous, was translated into many languages, and was reprinted by some
misguided or malevolent man not long ago.  I will give a specimen of the book which the writer
of "Six-foot- three" was asked to imitate:

"Travellers, as they pass through the country, usually stop to inquire whose are the splendid
mansions which they discover among the woods and plains around them.  The families, titles,
fortune, or character of the respective owners, engage much attention. . . . In the meantime,
the lowly cottage of the poor husbandman is passed by as scarcely deserving of notice.  Yet,
perchance, such a cottage may often contain a treasure of infinitely more value than the sumptuous
palace of the rich man; even "the pearl of great price."  If this be set in the heart of the
poor cottager, it proves a jewel of unspeakable value, and will shine among the brightest ornaments
of the Redeemer's crown, in that day when he maketh up his "jewels."

{picture: Sir Richard Phillips.  (From the painting by James Saxon in The National Portrait
Gallery.)  Photo: Emery Walker: page82.jpg}

"Hence, the Christian traveller, while he bestows, in common with others, his due share of
applause on the decorations of the rich, and is not insensible to the beauties and magnificence
which are the lawfully allowed appendages of rank and fortune, cannot overlook the humbler
dwelling of the poor.  And if he should find that true piety and grace beneath the thatched
roof, which he has in vain looked for amidst the worldly grandeur of the rich, he remembers
the word of God. . . . He sees, with admiration, that 'the high and lofty One, that inhabiteth
eternity, whose name is Holy, who dwelleth in the high and holy place, dwelleth with him also
that is of a contrite and humble spirit,' Isaiah lvii., 15; and although heaven is his throne,
and the earth his footstool, yet when a home is to be built, and a place of rest to be sought
for himself, he says, 'To this man will I look, even to him that is poor, and of a contrite
spirit, and trembleth at my word,' Isaiah lxvi., 1, 2.  When a home is thus tenanted, faith
beholds this inscription written on the walls, The Lord lives here.  Faith, therefore, cannot
pass it by unnoticed, but loves to lift up the latch of the door, and sit down, and converse
with the poor, though perhaps despised, inhabitant.  Many a sweet interview does faith obtain
when she thus takes her walks abroad.  Many such a sweet interview have I myself enjoyed beneath
the roof where dwelt the Dairyman and his little family.

"I soon perceived that his daughter's health was rapidly on the decline. The pale, wasting
consumption, which is the Lord's instrument for removing so many thousands every year from
the land of the living, made hasty strides on her constitution.  The hollow eye, the distressing
cough, and the often too flattering red on the cheek, foretold the approach of death.

"I have often thought what a field for usefulness and affectionate attention, on the part of
ministers and Christian friends, is opened by the frequent attacks and lingering progress of
consumptive illness.  How many such precious opportunities are daily lost, where Providence
seems in so marked a way to afford time and space for serious and Godly instruction!  Of how
many may it be said: 'The way of peace have they not known'; for not one friend ever came nigh
to warn them to 'flee from the wrath to come.'

"But the Dairyman's Daughter was happily made acquainted with the things which belonged to
her everlasting peace before the present disease had taken root in her constitution.  In my
visits to her I might be said rather to receive information than to impart it.  Her mind was
abundantly stored with Divine truths, and her conversations truly edifying.  The recollection
of it still produces a thankful sensation in my heart."

Nevertheless, when Borrow had bought a copy of this book he was willing to do what was asked,
and to attempt also to translate into German Phillips' "Proximate Causes of the Material Phenomena
of the Universe," or what the translator called "his tale of an apple and a pear."  But Phillips
changed his mind about the "Dairyman's Daughter" and commissioned a compilation of "Newgate
Lives and Trials" instead.  Borrow failed with the translation of the "Proximate Causes" but
liked very well the compiling of the "Celebrated Trials"--of Joan of Arc, Cagliostro, Mary
Queen of Scots, Raleigh, the Gunpowder Plotters, Queen Caroline, Thurtell, the Cato Street
Conspirators, and many more--in six volumes.  He also wrote reviews for Phillips' Magazine,
and contributed more translations of poetry and many scraps of "Danish Traditions and Superstitions,"
like the following:

"At East Hessing, in the district of Calling, there was once a rural wedding; and when the
morning was near at hand, the guests rushed out of the house with much noise and tumult.  When
they were putting their horses to the carts, in order to leave the place, each of them boasted
and bragged of his bridal present.  But when the uproar was at the highest, and they were all
speaking together, a maiden dressed in green, and with a bulrush plaited over her head, came
from a neighbouring morass, and going up to the fellow who was noisiest and bragged most of
his bridal gift, she said, 'What will you give to Lady Boe?'  The boor, who was half intoxicated
from the brandy and ale he had swallowed, seized a whip, and answered, 'Three strokes of my
waggon-whip.'  But at the same moment he fell a corpse to the ground."

If translation like this is journeyman's work for the journeyman, for Borrow it was of great
value because it familiarised him with the marvellous and the supernatural and so helped him
towards the expression of his own material and spiritual adventures.  The wild and often other-
worldly air of much of his work is doubtless due to his wild and other- worldly mind, but owes
a considerable if uncertain debt to his reading of ballads and legends, which give a little
to the substance of his work and far more to the tone of it.  Among other things translated
at this time he mentions the "Saga of Burnt Njal."

He was not happy in London.  He had few friends there, and perhaps those he had only disturbed
without sweetening his solitude.  One of these was a Norwich friend, named Roger Kerrison,
who shared lodgings with him at 16, Millman Street, Bedford Row.  Borrow confided in Kerrison,
and had written to him before leaving Norwich in terms of perhaps unconsciously worked-up affection.
But Borrow's low spirits in London were more than Kerrison could stand.  When Borrow was proposing
a short visit to Norwich his friend wrote to John Thomas Borrow, suggesting that he should
keep his brother there for a time, or else return with him, for this reason. Borrow had "repeatedly"
threatened suicide, and unable to endure his fits of desperation Kerrison had gone into separate
lodgings: if his friend were to return in this state and find himself alone he would "again
make some attempt to destroy himself."  Nothing was done, so far as is known, and he did not
commit suicide.  It is a curious commentary on the work of hack writers that this youth should
have written as a note to his translation of "The Suicide's Grave," {85} that it was not translated
for its sentiments but for its poetry; "although the path of human life is rough and thorny,
the mind may always receive consolation by looking forward to the world to come.  The mind
which rejects a future state has to thank itself for its utter misery and hopelessness."  His
malady was youth, aggravated, the food reformer would say, by eating fourteen pennyworth of
bread and cheese at a meal, and certainly aggravated by literary ambition.

Judging from the thirty-first chapter of "Lavengro," he was exceptionally sensitive at this
time to all impressions--probably both pleasant and unpleasant.  He describes himself on his
first day gazing at the dome of St. Paul's until his brain became dizzy, and he thought the
dome would fall and crush him, and he shrank within himself, and struck yet deeper into the
heart of the big city.  He stood on London Bridge dazed by the mighty motion of the waters
and the multitude of men and "horses as large as elephants.  There I stood, just above the
principal arch, looking through the balustrade at the scene that presented itself--and such
a scene!  Towards the left bank of the river, a forest of masts, thick and close, as far as
the eye could reach; spacious wharfs, surmounted with gigantic edifices; and, far away, Caesar's
Castle, with its White Tower. To the right, another forest of masts, and a maze of buildings,
from which, here and there, shot up to the sky chimneys taller than Cleopatra's Needle, vomiting
forth huge wreaths of that black smoke which forms the canopy--occasionally a gorgeous one--of
the more than Babel city.  Stretching before me, the troubled breast of the mighty river, and,
immediately below, the main whirlpool of the Thames--the Maelstrom of the bulwarks of the middle
arch--a grisly pool, which, with its superabundance of horror, fascinated me.  Who knows but
I should have leapt into its depths?--I have heard of such things--but for a rather startling
occurrence which broke the spell.  As I stood upon the bridge, gazing into the jaws of the
pool, a small boat shot suddenly through the arch beneath my feet.  There were three persons
in it; an oarsman in the middle, whilst a man and woman sat at the stern.  I shall never forget
the thrill of horror which went through me at this sudden apparition. What!--a boat--a small
boat--passing beneath that arch into yonder roaring gulf!  Yes, yes, down through that awful
water-way, with more than the swiftness of an arrow, shot the boat, or skiff, right into the
jaws of the pool.  A monstrous breaker curls over the prow--there is no hope; the boat is swamped,
and all drowned in that strangling vortex.  No! the boat, which appeared to have the buoyancy
of a feather, skipped over the threatening horror, and the next moment was out of danger, the
boatman--a true boatman of Cockaigne, that--elevating one of his skulls in sign of triumph,
the man hallooing, and the woman, a true Englishwoman that--of a certain class--waving her
shawl.  Whether any one observed them save myself, or whether the feat was a common one, I
know not; but nobody appeared to take any notice of them.  As for myself, I was so excited,
that I strove to clamber up the balustrade of the bridge, in order to obtain a better view
of the daring adventurers.  Before I could accomplish my design, however, I felt myself seized
by the body, and, turning my head, perceived the old fruit-woman, who was clinging to me."

On this very day, in his account, he first met the "fiery, enthusiastic and open-hearted,"
pleasure-loving young Irishman, whom he calls Francis Ardry, who took him to the theatre and
to "the strange and eccentric places of London," and no doubt helped to give him the feeling
of "a regular Arabian Nights' entertainment."  C. G. Leland {87} tells a story told to him
by one who might have been the original of Ardry.  The story is the only independent evidence
of Borrow's London life.  This "old gentleman" had been in youth for a long time the most intimate
friend of George Borrow, who was, he said, a very wild and eccentric youth.  "One night, when
skylarking about London, Borrow was pursued by the police, as he wished to be, even as Panurge
so planned as to be chased by the night- watch.  He was very tall and strong in those days,
a trained shoulder- hitter, and could run like a deer.  He was hunted to the Thames, and there
they thought they had him.  But the Romany Rye made for the edge, and leaping into the wan
water, like the Squyre in the old ballad, swam to the other side, and escaped."  He forgot
"The Dairyman's Daughter," and he could not foresee the early fate of "Lavengro" itself.  He
preferred manlier crime and riskier deception to reviewing.  As he read over the tales of rogues,
he says, he became again what he had been as a boy, a necessitarian, and could not "imagine
how, taking all circumstances into consideration, these highwaymen, these pickpockets, should
have been anything else than highwaymen and pickpockets."

These were the days of such books as "The Life and Extraordinary Adventures of Samuel Denmore
Hayward, denominated the Modern Macheath, who suffered at the Old Bailey, on Tuesday, November
27, 1821, for the Crime of Burglary," by Pierce Egan, embellished with a highly-finished miniature
by Mr. Smart, etched by T. R. Cruikshank; and a facsimile of his handwriting.  London, 1822."

It is a poor book, and now has descendants lower in the social scale.  It pretends to give
"a most awful but useful lesson to the rising generation" by an account of the criminal whose
appearance as a boy "was so superior to other boys of his class in life as to have the look
of a gentleman's child."  He naturally became a waiter, and "though the situation did not exactly
accord with his ambition, it answered his purpose, because it afforded him an opportunity of
studying character, and being in the company of gentlemen."  He was "a generous high-minded
fellow towards the ladies," and became the fancy man of someone else's mistress, living "in
the style of a gentleman solely at the expense of the beautiful Miss ---."  His "unembarrassed
and gentlemanly" behaviour survived even while he was being searched, and he entered the chapel
before execution "with a firm step, accompanied with the most gentlemanly deportment."  The
end came nevertheless: "Bowing to the sheriffs and the few persons around him with all the
manners of an accomplished gentleman, he ascended the drop with a firmness that astonished
everyone present; and resigned his eventful life without scarce a struggle."

The moral was the obvious one.  "His talents were his misfortunes."  The biographer pretends
to believe that, though the fellow lived in luxury, he must always have had a harassed mind;
the truth being that he himself would have had a harassed mind if he had played so distinguished
a part. "The chequered life of that young man," he says, "abounding with incidents and facts
almost incredible, and scarcely ever before practised with so much art and delusion in so short
a period, impressively points out the danger arising from the possession of great talents when
perverted or misapplied."

He points out, furthermore, how vice sinks before virtue.  "For instance, view the countenances
of thieves, who are regaling themselves on the most expensive liquors, laughing and singing,
how they are changed in an instant by the appearance of police officers entering a room in
search of them. . . ."

Finally, "let the youth of London bear in mind that honesty is the best policy. . . .

"In this happy country, where every individual has an opportunity of raising himself to the
highest office in the State, what might the abilities of the unfortunate Hayward have accomplished
for him if he had not deviated from the paths of virtue?  There is no place like London in
the world where a man of talents meets with so much encouragement and liberality; his society
is courted, and his presence gives a weight to any company in which he appears; if supported
by a good character."

But the crime was the thing.  Of a different class was John Hamilton Reynolds' "The Fancy."
This book, published in 1820, would have wholly delighted Borrow.  I will quote the footnote
to the "Lines to Philip Samson, the Brummagem Youth":

"Of all the great men of this age, in poetry, philosophy, or pugilism, there is no one of such
transcendent talent as Randall;--no one who combines the finest natural powers with the most
elegant and finished acquired ones.  The late Professor Stewart (who has left the learned ring)
is acknowledged to be clever in philosophy, but he is a left-handed metaphysical fighter at
best, and cannot be relied upon at closing with his subject.  Lord Byron is a powerful poet,
with a mind weighing fourteen stone; but he is too sombre and bitter, and is apt to lose his
temper.  Randall has no defect, or at best he has not yet betrayed the appearance of one. 
His figure is remarkable, when peeled, for its statue-like beauty, and nothing can equal the
alacrity with which he uses either hand, or the coolness with which he receives.  His goodness
on his legs, Boxiana (a Lord Eldon in the skill and caution of his judgments) assures us, is
unequalled.  He doubles up an opponent, as a friend lately declared, as easily as though he
were picking a flower or pinching a girl's cheek.  He is about to fight Jos.  Hudson, who challenged
him lately at the Royal Tennis Court.  Randall declared, that 'though he had declined fighting,
he would accommodate Joshua'; a kind and benevolent reply, which does equal honour to his head
and heart.  The editor of this little volume, like Goldfinch in the 'Road to Ruin,' 'would
not stay away for a thousand pounds.'  He has already looked about for a tall horse and a taxed
cart, and he has some hopes of compassing a drab coat and a white hat, for he has no wish to
appear singular at such scenes."

Reynolds, like Borrow, was an admirer of Byron, and he anticipated Borrow in the spirit of
his remark to John Murray that the author's trade was contemptible compared with the jockey's.
At that moment it was unquestionably so.  Soon even reviewing failed.  The "Universal Review"
died at the beginning of 1825, and Borrow seems to have quarrelled with Phillips because some
Germans had found the German of his translation as unintelligible as he had found the publisher's
English.  He had nothing left but his physical strength, his translations, and a very little
money.  When he had come down to half-a-crown, he says, he thought of accepting a patriotic
Armenian's invitation to translate an Armenian work into English; only the Armenian went away.

CHAPTER XIII--"JOSEPH SELL"

Then, on a fair day on Blackheath, he met Mr. Petulengro again who said he looked ill and offered
him the loan of 50 pounds, which he would not accept, nor his invitation to join the band.
Dr. Knapp confidently gives the date of May 12 to this incident because that is the day of
the annual fair.  Then seeing an advertisement: "A Novel or Tale is much wanted," outside a
bookseller's shop, Borrow wrote "The Life and Adventures of Joseph Sell, the Great Traveller."
Did he?  Dr. Knapp thinks he did, but that the story had another name, and is to be sought
for in such collections of 1825 and 1826 as "Watt's Literary Souvenir."  As Borrow speaks of
the materials of it having come from his own brain, and as Dr. Knapp says he could not invent,
why not conclude that it was autobiographical?

There is no evidence except that the account sounds true, and might very well be true.  Dr.
Knapp thinks that he wrote this book, and that he did many other things which he said he did,
because wherever there is any evidence it corroborates Borrow's statements except in small
matters of names and dates.  In the earlier version of "Lavengro," represented by a manuscript
and a proof, "Ardry" is "Arden," "Jasper" is "Ambrose," and the question "What is his name?"
is answered by "Thurtell," instead of a blank.  Now there was an Ambrose Smith whom Borrow
knew, and Thurtell was such a man as he describes in search of a place for the fight.  Therefore,
Dr. Knapp would be inclined to say that Borrow did know a young man named Arden.  And, furthermore,
as Isopel is called Elizabeth in that earlier version, Isopel did exist, but her name was Elizabeth:
she was, says Mr. Watts-Dunton, "really an East Anglian road girl" (not a Gypsy) "of the finest
type, known to the Boswells and remembered not many years ago." And speaking of Isopel--there
is a story still to be heard at Long Melford of a girl "who lived on the green and ran away
with the Gypsy," in about the year 1825.  With this may possibly be connected another story:
of a young painter of dogs and horses who was living at Melford in 1805 and seduced either
one or two sisters of the warden of the hospital or almshouse, and had two illegitimate children,
one at any rate a girl. The Great House was one used, but not built, for a workhouse: it stood
near the vicarage at Melford, but has now disappeared, and apparently its records with it.

Borrow did not invent, says Knapp, which is absurd.  Some of his reappearances, recognitions
and coincidences must be inventions.  The postillion's tale must be largely invention.  But
it is not fair or necessary to retort as Hindes Groome did: "Is the Man in Black then also
a reality, and the Reverend Mr. Platitude?  In other words, did Tractarianism exist in 1825,
eight years before it was engendered by Keble's sermon?"  For Borrow was unscrupulous or careless
about time and place.  But it is fair and necessary to say, as Hindes Groome did, that some
of the unverities in "Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye" are "probably due to forgetfulness," the
rest to "love of posing, but much more to an honest desire to produce an amusing and interesting
book." {93a}  Borrow was a great admirer of the "Memoirs" {93b} of Vidocq," principal agent
of the French police till 1827--now proprietor of the paper manufactory at St. Maude," and
formerly showman, soldier, galley slave, and highwayman. Of this book the editor says:

"It is not our province or intention to enter into a discussion of the veracity of Vidocq's
"Memoirs": be they true or false, were they purely fiction from the first chapter to the last,
they would, from fertility of invention, knowledge of human nature, and easy style, rank only
second to the novels of Le Sage."

It was certainly with books such as this in his mind that Borrow composed his autobiography,
but it goes so much deeper that it is at every point a revelation, usually of actual events
and emotions, always of thought and taste.  In these "Memoirs" of Vidocq there is a man named
Christian, or Caron, with a reputation for removing charms cast on animals, and he takes Vidocq
to his Gypsy friends at Malines:

"Having traversed the city, we stopped in the Faubourg de Louvain, before a wretched looking
house with blackened walls, furrowed with wide crevices, and many bundles of straw as substitutes
for window glasses.  It was midnight, and I had time to make my observations by the moonlight,
for more than half an hour elapsed before the door was opened by one of the most hideous old
hags I ever saw in my life.  We were then introduced to a long room where thirty persons of
both sexes were indiscriminately smoking and drinking, mingling in strange and licentious positions.
Under their blue loose frocks, ornamented with red embroidery, the men wore blue velvet waistcoats
with silver buttons, like the Andalusian muleteers; the clothing of the women was all of one
bright colour; there were some ferocious countenances amongst them, but yet they were all feasting.
The monotonous sound of a drum, mingled with the howling of two dogs tied under the table,
accompanied the strange songs, which I mistook for a funeral psalm.  The smoke of tobacco and
wood which filled this den, scarcely allowed me to perceive in the midst of the room a woman,
who, adorned with a scarlet turban, was performing a wild dance with the most wanton postures."

Dr. Knapp, on insufficient evidence, attributes the translation to Borrow.  But certainly Borrow
might have incorporated this passage in his own work almost word for word without justifying
a charge either of plagiarism or untruth.  Other men had written fiction as if it were autobiography;
he was writing autobiography as if it were fiction; he used his own life as a subject for fiction.
Ford crudely said that Borrow "coloured up and poetised" his adventures.

CHAPTER XIV--OUT OF LONDON

If Borrow is taken literally, he was at Blackheath on May 12, 1825, sold his "Life of Joseph
Sell" on the 20th, and left London on the 22nd.  "For some months past I had been far from
well, and my original indisposition, brought on partly by the peculiar atmosphere of the Big
City, partly by anxiety of mind, had been much increased by the exertions which I had been
compelled to make during the last few days.  I felt that, were I to remain where I was, I should
die, or become a confirmed valetudinarian.  I would go forth into the country, travelling on
foot, and, by exercise and inhaling pure air, endeavour to recover my health, leaving my subsequent
movements to be determined by Providence."

He says definitely in the appendix to "The Romany Rye," that he fled from London and hack-authorship
for "fear of a consumption."  Walking on an unknown road out of London the "poor thin lad"
felt tired at the ninth milestone, and thought of putting up at an inn for the night, but instead
took the coach to ---, i.e., Amesbury.

The remaining ninety chapters of "Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye" are filled by the story of
the next four months of Borrow's life and by stories told to him during that period.  The preceding
fifty-seven chapters had sufficed for twenty-two years.  "The novelty" of the new itinerant
life, says Mr. Thomas Seccombe, {96} "graved every incident in the most vivid possible manner
upon the writer's recollection."  After walking for four days northwest from Salisbury he met
an author, a rich man who was continually touching things to avert the evil chance, and with
him he stayed the night.  On the next day he bought a pony and cart from the tinker, Jack Slingsby,
with the purpose of working on the tinker's beat and making horse-shoes.  After some days he
was visited down in a Shropshire dingle by a Gypsy girl, who poisoned him at the instigation
of his enemy, old Mrs. Herne.  Only the accidental appearance of the Welsh preacher, Peter
Williams, saved him.  Years afterwards, in 1854, it may be mentioned here, he told a friend
in Cornwall that his fits of melancholy were due to the poison of a Gypsy crone.  He spent
a week in the company of the preacher and his wife, and was about to cross the Welsh border
with them when Jasper Petulengro reappeared, and he turned back.  Jasper told him that Mrs.
Herne had hanged herself out of disappointment at his escape from her poison.  This made it
a point of honour for Jasper to fight Borrow, whose bloody face satisfied him in half an hour:
he even offered Borrow his sister Ursula for a wife.  Borrow refused, and settled alone in
Mumper's Dingle, which was perhaps Mumber Lane, five miles from Willenhall in Staffordshire.
{97}  Here he fought the Flaming Tinman, who had driven Slingsby out of his beat.  The Tinman
brought with him his wife and Isopel Berners, the tall fair-haired girl who struck Borrow first
with her beauty and then with her right arm. Isopel stayed with Borrow after the defeat of
the Tinman, and their companionship in the dingle fills a very large part of "Lavengro" and
"The Romany Rye," with interruptions and diversions from the Man in Black, the gin-drinking
priest, who was then at work undermining the Protestantism of old England.  Isopel stood by
him when suffering from "indescribable horror," and recommended "ale, and let it be strong."
Borrow makes her evidently inclined to marry him; for example, when she says that if she goes
to America she will go alone "unless--unless that should happen which is not likely," and when
he says ". . .  In one place Borrow says: "I am, of course, nothing to her, but she is mistaken
in thinking she is nothing to me."  Borrow represents himself as tyrannically imposing himself
upon the girl as teacher of Armenian, enlivening the instruction with the one mild double entendre,
of "I decline a mistress."  At times they seem on terms of as perfect good fellowship as ever
was, with a touch of post-matrimonial indifference; but Isopel had fits of weeping and Borrow
of listlessness. Borrow was uncommonly fond of prophetic tragic irony.  As he made Thurtell
unconsciously suggest to the reader his own execution, so he makes Isopel say one day when
she is going a journey: "I shall return once more."  Lavengro starts but thinks no more of it.

So, before going to bed, he filled the kettle in case Isopel should return during the night.
He fell asleep and was dreaming hard and hearing the sound of wheels in his dream "grating
amidst sand and gravel," when suddenly he awoke.

He torments her once more with Armenian and makes her speak in such a way that the reader sees--what
he himself did not then see--that she was too sick with love for banter.  She bade him farewell
with the same transparent significance on the next day, when he was off early to a fair.  She
sent him a letter of farewell, and he could not follow her, he would not try, lest if he overtook
her she should despise him for running after her.

I can only say that it is an extraordinary love-making, but then all love- making, when truthfully
reported, is extraordinary.  There can be little doubt, therefore, that this episode is truthfully
reported.  Borrow himself has made a comment on himself and women through the mouth of Jasper.
The Gypsy had overheard him talking to his sister Ursula for three hours under a hedge, and
his opinion was: "I begin to think you care for nothing in this world but old words and strange
stories."

After Isopel had gone he bought a fine horse with the help of a loan of 50 pounds from Jasper,
and travelled with it across England, meeting adventures and hearing of others.  He was for
a time bookkeeper at a coaching inn, still with some pounds in his purse.  At Horncastle, which
he mentions more than once by name, he sold the horse for 150 pounds.  As the fair at Horncastle
lasted from the 11th to the 21st of August, the date of this last adventure is almost exactly
fixed.  Here the book ends.

{picture: Horncastle Horse Fair.  (From an old print.): page104.jpg}

CHAPTER XV--AN EARLY PORTRAIT

At the end of these travels Borrow had turned twenty-two.  His brother John painted his portrait,
but it has disappeared, and Borrow himself, as if fearing lest no adequate picture of him should
remain, took pains to leave the material for one.  It is a peculiarity of his books that people
whom he meets and converses with often remark on his appearance.  He must himself have been
tolerably familiar with it and used to comment on it. He told his father that a lady thought
him like Alfieri's Saul; at a later date Haydon, the painter, said he would "make a capital
Pharaoh." Years before, when he was a boy, Petulengro recognised him after a long absence,
because there was something in his face to prevent people from forgetting him.  Mrs. Herne,
his Gypsy enemy, praised him for his "singular and outrageous ugliness."  He was lean, long-limbed
and tall, having reached his full height of six-feet-two probably before the end of his teens;
he had plenty of room to fill before becoming a big man, and yet he was already powerful and
clearly destined to be a big man.  His hair had for some time been rapidly becoming grey, and
was soon to be altogether white: it had once been black, and his strongly-marked eyebrows were
still dark brown.  His face was oval and inclining to olive in complexion; his nose rounded,
but not too large; his mouth good and well-moulded; his eyes dark brown and noticeable indescribably,
either through their light or through the curve of the eyelids across them.  "You have a flash
about that eye of yours," says the old apple woman, and it is she that notices the "blob of
foam" on his lips, while he is musing aloud, exclaiming "Necessity!" and cracking his finger-joints.
He had an Irish look, or so thought his London acquaintance, Ardry.  He looked "rather wild"
at times and he had a way of clenching his fist when he was determined not to be put upon,
as the bullying coachman found who had said: "One-and-ninepence, sir, or the things which you
have brought with you will be taken away from you."  Yet he had small hands for his size and
"long white fingers," which "would just serve for the business," said the thimble-rigger. 
Though ready to hit people when he is angry, "a more civil and pleasant-spoken person than
yourself," says Ursula, "can't be found."  His own opinion was "that he was not altogether
deficient in courage and in propriety of behaviour. . . .  It is as a "poor thin lad" that
he commends himself to us, through the mouth of the old apple woman, at his setting out from
London, but as he gets on he shows himself "an excellent pedestrian."

Already in London he has made one or two favourable impressions, as when he convinces the superb
waiter that he is "accustomed to claret."  But it is upon the roads that he wishes to shine.
When the Man in Black asks how he knows him, he answers that "Gypsies have various ways of
obtaining information."  Later on, he makes the Man in Black address him as "Zingaro."  He
impresses the commercial traveller as "a confounded sensible young fellow, and not at all opinionated,"
and Lord Whitefeather as a highwayman in disguise, and the Gypsies as one who never spoke a
bad word and never did a bad thing.  This is his most impressive moment, when the jockey discovers
that he is the Romany Rye and tells him there is scarcely a part of England where he has not
heard the name of the Romany Rye mentioned by the Gypsies.  Here he makes another praise him.
Now let him mount the fine horse he has bought with 50 pounds borrowed from a Gypsy, and is
about to sell for 150 pounds at Horncastle Fair.

As no one else troubled to paint Borrow either at Horncastle or any other place, and as he
took advantage of the fact to such purpose, I must leave this portrait as it is, only I shall
remind the reader that it is not a photograph but a portrait of the painter.  A little time
ago this painter was a consumptive-looking literary hack, and is still a philologist, with
eyes a bit dim from too much reading, and subject to frantic melancholy;--a liker of solitude
and of men and women who do not disturb it, but a man accustomed to men and very well able
to deal with them.

CHAPTER XVI--THE VEILED PERIOD

The last words of "The Romany Rye" narrative are: "I shouldn't wonder if Mr. Petulengro and
Tawno Chikno came originally from India.  I think I'll go there."  This is his way of giving
impressiveness to the "veiled period" of the following seven or eight years, for the benefit
of those who had read "The Zincali" and "The Bible in Spain," and had been allured by the hints
of earlier travel.  In "The Bible in Spain" he had spoken of "an acquaintance of mine, a Tartar
Khan."  He had described strange things, and said: "This is not the first instance in which
it has been my lot to verify the wisdom of the saying, that truth is sometimes wilder than
fiction;" he had met Baron Taylor and reminded the reader of other meetings "in the street
or the desert, the brilliant hall or amongst Bedouin haimas, at Novgorod or Stambul."  Before
1833 he had been in Paris and Madrid.  "I have been everywhere," he said to the simple company
at a Welsh inn. Speaking to Colonel Napier in 1839 at Seville, he said that he had picked up
the Gypsy tongue "some years ago in Moultan," and he gave the impression that he had visited
most parts of the East.

A little too much has been made of this "veiled period," not by Borrow, but by others.  It
would have been fair to surmise that if he chose not to write about this period of his life,
either there was very little in it, or there was something in it which he was unwilling--perhaps
ashamed--to disclose; and what has been discovered suggests that he was in an unsettled state--writing
to please himself and perhaps also the booksellers, travelling a little and perhaps meeting
some of the adventures which he crammed into those few months of 1825, suffering from "the
horrors" either in solitude or with no confidant but his mother.

Borrow himself took no great pains to preserve the veil.  For instance, in the preface to his
translation of "Y Bardd Cwsg" in 1860, he says that it was made "in the year 1830 at the request
of a little Welsh bookseller of his acquaintance" in Smithfield.

In 1826 he was in Norwich: the "Romantic Ballads" were published there, and in May he received
a letter from Allan Cunningham, whose cheery commendatory verses ushered in the book.  The
letter suggests that Borrow was indolent from apathy.  The book had no success or notice, which
Knapp puts down to his not sending out presentation copies.  "I judge, however," says he, "that
he sent one to Walter Scott, and that that busy writer forgot to acknowledge the courtesy.
Borrow's lifelong hostility to Scott would thus be accounted for;" but the hostility is his
reason for supposing that the copy was sent.  Some time afterwards, in 1826, he was at 26,
Bryanstone Street, Portman Square, and was to sit for the artist, B. R. Haydon, before going
off to the South of France.  If he went, he may have paid the visits to Paris, Bayonne, Italy
and Spain, which he alludes to in "The Bible in Spain"; he may, as Dr. Knapp suggests, have
covered the ground of Murtagh's alleged travels in "The Romany Rye," and have been at Pau,
with Quesada's army marching to Pamplona, at Torrelodones, and at Seville.  But in a letter
to the Bible Society in 1838 he spoke of his earlier acquaintance with Spain being confined
almost entirely to Madrid.  It may be true, as he says in "The Zincali," that "once in the
south of France, when he was weary, hungry, and penniless, he observed one of these patterans
or Gypsy trails, and, following the direction pointed out, arrived at the resting place of
some Gypsies, who received him with kindness and hospitality on the faith of no other word
of recommendation than patteran."  It may be true that he wandered in Italy, and rested at
nightfall by a kiln "about four leagues from Genoa."  But by April, 1827, he must have been
back in Norwich, according to Knapp, to see Marshland Shales at the fair.  Knapp gives certain
proof that he was there between September and December. Thereafter, if Knapp was right, he
was translating Vidocq's "Memoirs."  In 1829 again he was in London, at 17, Great Russell Street,
Bloomsbury, and was projecting with John Bowring a collection of "Songs of Scandinavia." He
applied for work to the Highland Society and to the British Museum, in 1830.  In that summer
he was at 7, Museum Street, Bloomsbury.  He was not satisfied with his work or its remuneration.
He thought of entering the French Army, of going to Greece, of getting work, with Bowring's
help, under the Belgian Government.  His name "had been down for several years" for the purchase
of a commission in the English Army, and Bowring offered to recommend him to "a corps in one
of the Eastern Colonies," where he could perfect his Arabic and Persian.  In 1842 he wrote
a letter to Bowring, printed by Mr. Walling, asking for "as many of the papers and manuscripts
which I left at yours some twelve years ago, as you can find," and for advice and a loan of
books, and promising that Murray will send a copy of "The Bible in Spain" to "my oldest, I
may say my only friend."  But whatever Bowring's help, Borrow was "drifting on the sea of the
world, and likely to be so," and especially hurt because of the figure he must cut in the eyes
of his own people.  Was it now, or when he was bookkeeper at the inn in 1825, that he saw so
much of the ways of commercial travellers? {114}

It is not necessary to quote from the metrical translations, probably of this period, "selections
from a huge, undigested mass of translation, accumulated during several years devoted to philological
pursuits," published in "The Targum" of 1835.  They were made from originals in the Hebrew,
Arabic, Persian, Turkish, Tartar, Tibetian, Chinese, Mandchou, Russian, Malo-Russian, Polish,
Finnish, Anglo-Saxon, Ancient Norse, Suabian, German, Dutch, Danish, Ancient Danish, Swedish,
Ancient Irish, Irish, Gaelic, Ancient British, Cambrian British, Greek, Modern Greek, Latin,
Provencal, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Rommany.

I will, however, quote from "The Sleeping Bard, or Visions of the World, Death and Hell," his
translation of Elis Wyn's "Y Bardd Cwsg."  The book would please Borrow, because in the City
of Perdition Rome stands at the gate of Pride, and the Pope has palaces in the streets of Pleasure
and of Lucre; because the Church of England is the fairest part of the Catholic Church, surmounted
by "Queen Anne on the pinnacle of the building, with a sword in each hand"; and because the
Papist is turned away from the Catholic Church by a porter with "an exceedingly large Bible."
"One fair morning," he begins:

"One fair morning of genial April, when the earth was green and pregnant, and Britain, like
a paradise, was wearing splendid liveries, tokens of the smile of the summer sun, I was walking
upon the bank of the Severn, in the midst of the sweet notes of the little songsters of the
wood, who appeared to be striving to break through all the measures of music, whilst pouring
forth praise to the Creator.  I, too, occasionally raised my voice and warbled with the feathered
choir, though in a manner somewhat more restrained than that in which they sang; and occasionally
read a portion of the book of 'The Practice of Godliness.'"

And in his vision he saw fiends drive men and women through the foul river of the Fiend to
their eternal damnation, where

"I at the first glance saw more pains and torments than the heart of man can imagine or the
tongue relate; a single one of which was sufficient to make the hair stand erect, the blood
to freeze, the flesh to melt, the bones to drop from their places--yea, the spirit to faint.
What is empaling or sawing men alive, tearing off the flesh piecemeal with iron pincers, or
broiling the flesh with candles, collop fashion, or squeezing heads flat in a vice, and all
the most shocking devices which ever were upon earth, compared with one of these?  Mere pastime!
There were a hundred thousand shoutings, hoarse cries, and strong groans; yonder a boisterous
wailing and horrible outcry answering them, and the howling of a dog is sweet, delicious music
when compared with these sounds.  When we had proceeded a little way onward from the accursed
beach, towards the wild place of Damnation, I perceived, by their own light, innumerable men
and women here and there; and devils without number and without rest, incessantly employing
their strength in tormenting.  Yes, there they were, devils and damned, the devils roaring
with their own torments, and making the damned roar by means of the torments which they inflicted
upon them.  I paid particular observation to the corner which was nearest me. There I beheld
the devils with pitchforks, tossing the damned up into the air that they might fall headlong
on poisoned hatchets or barbed pikes, there to wriggle their bowels out.  After a time the
wretches would crawl in multitudes, one upon another, to the top of one of the burning crags,
there to be broiled like mutton; from there they would be snatched afar, to the top of one
of the mountains of eternal frost and snow, where they would be allowed to shiver for a time;
thence they would be precipitated into a loathsome pool of boiling brimstone, to wallow there
in conflagration, smoke and the suffocation of horrible stench; from the pool they would be
driven to the marsh of Hell, that they might embrace and be embraced by the reptiles, many
times worse than serpents and vipers; after allowing them half an hour's dalliance with these
creatures the devils would seize a bundle of rods of steel, fiery hot from the furnace, and
would scourge them till their howling, caused by the horrible inexpressible pain which they
endured, would fill the vast abode of darkness, and when the fiends deemed that they had scourged
them enough, they would take hot irons and sear their bloody wounds. . . ."

And this would have particularly pleased Borrow, who disliked and condemned smoking:

"For one of late origin I will not deny, O Cerberus, that thou hast brought to us many a booty
from the island of our enemies, by means of tobacco, a weed the cause of much deceit; for how
much deceit is practised in carrying it about, in mixing it, and in weighing it: a weed which
entices some people to bib ale; others to curse, swear, and to flatter in order to obtain it,
and others to tell lies in denying that they use it: a weed productive of maladies in various
bodies, the excess of which is injurious to every man's body, without speaking of his soul:
a weed, moreover, by which we get multitudes of the poor, whom we should never get did they
not set their love on tobacco, allow it to master them, and pull the bread from the mouths
of their children."

In the preface to this book as it was finally published in 1860, Borrow said that the little
Welsh bookseller had rejected it for fear of being ruined--"The terrible descriptions of vice
and torment would frighten the genteel part of the English public out of their wits. . . .
I had no idea, till I read him in English, that Elis Wyn had been such a terrible fellow."

In September, 1830, Borrow left London and returned to Norwich, having done nothing which attracted
attention or deserved to.  His brother's opinion was that his want of success in life was due
chiefly to his being unlike other people.  So far as his failure in literature went, it was
due to the fact that he was doing either poorly or only moderately well work that very few
people wanted to read, viz., chiefly verse translations from unfashionable languages.  It may
be also that his health was partly the cause and was in turn lowered by the long continued
failure.  When Borrow, at the age of forty or more, came to write about the first twenty-two
years of his life, he not only described himself suffering from several attacks of "the horrors,"
but also with almost equal vividness three men suffering from mental afflictions of different
kinds: the author who lived alone and was continually touching things to avert the evil chance;
the old man who had saved himself from being overwhelmed in his terrible misfortunes by studying
the inscriptions on Chinese pots, but could not tell the time; and the Welshman who wandered
over the country preaching and living piously, but haunted by the knowledge that in his boyhood
he had committed the sin against the Holy Ghost.

It may be said that the man who had gone through this, and could describe it, would find it
easy enough to depict other sufferings of the same kind, though in later or less violent stages.
It is certain, however, that for such a one to acquire the habit of touching was easy.  He
says himself, that after the night with the author who had this habit and who feared ideas
more than thunder and lightning, he himself touched things and wondered if "the long-forgotten
influence" had returned.  Mr. Walling says that "he has been informed" that Borrow "suffered
in his youth from the touching mania," and like many other readers probably, I had concluded
the same.  But Mr. Watts-Dunton had already told us that "in walking through Richmond Park,"
when an old man, Borrow "would step out of his way constantly to touch a tree and was offended
if observed."  The old man diverting himself with Chinese inscriptions on teapots would be
an easy invention for Borrow; he may not have done this very thing, but he had done similar
things.  Here again, Mr. Walling says that "he has been told" the incident was drawn from Borrow's
own experience.  As to Peter Williams and the sin against the Holy Ghost, Borrow hinted to
him that his case was not exceptional:

"'Dost thou then imagine,' said Peter, 'the sin against the Holy Ghost to be so common an occurrence?'

"'As you have described it,' said I, 'of very common occurrence, especially amongst children,
who are, indeed, the only beings likely to commit it.'

"'Truly,' said Winifred, 'the young man talks wisely.'

"Peter was silent for some moments, and appeared to be reflecting; at last, suddenly raising
his head, he looked me full in the face, and, grasping my hand with vehemence, he said, 'Tell
me, young man, only one thing, hast thou, too, committed the sin against the Holy Ghost?'

"'I am neither Papist nor Methodist,' said I, 'but of the Church, and, being so, confess myself
to no one, but keep my own counsel; I will tell thee, however, had I committed at the same
age, twenty such sins as that which you committed, I should feel no uneasiness at these years--but
I am sleepy, and must go to rest.'"

This is due to probably something more than a desire to make himself and his past impressive.
The man's story in several places reminds me of Borrow, where, for instance, after he has realised
his unpardonable sin, he runs wild through Wales, "climbing mountains and wading streams, burnt
by the sun, drenched by the rain," so that for three years he hardly knew what befel him, living
with robbers and Gypsies, and once about to fling himself into the sea from a lofty rock.

If it be true, as it is likely, that Borrow suffered in a more extended manner than he showed
in his accounts of the horrors, the time of the suffering is still uncertain.  Was it before
his first escape from London, as he says in "Lavengro"?  Was it during his second long stay
in London or after his second escape?  Or was it really not long before the actual narrative
was written in the 'forties?  There is some reason for thinking so.  The most vivid description
of "the horrors," and the account of the touching gentleman and of Peter Williams, together
with a second reference to "the horrors" or the "evil one," all occur in a section of "Lavengro"
equal to hardly more than a sixth of the whole.  And further, when Borrow was writing "Wild
Wales," or when he met the sickly young man at the "Castle Inn" of Caernarvon, he thought of
himself as always having had "the health of an elephant."  I should be inclined to conclude
at least that when he was forty great mental suffering was still fresh in his mind, something
worse than the heavy melancholy which returned now and then when he was past fifty.

CHAPTER XVII--THE BIBLE SOCIETY: RUSSIA

From the phrase, "He said in '32," which Borrow uses of himself in Chapter X. of the Appendix
to "The Romany Rye," it was to be concluded that he was writing political articles in 1832;
and Dr. Knapp was able to quote a manuscript of the time where he says that "there is no Radical
who would not rejoice to see his native land invaded by the bitterest of her foreign enemies,"
etc., and also a letter, printed in the "Norfolk Chronicle," on August 18, 1832, on the origin
of the word "Tory."

At the end of this year he became friendly with the family of Skepper, including the widowed
Mrs. Mary Clarke, then 36 years old, who lived at Oulton Hall, near Lowestoft, in Suffolk.
With or through them he met the Rev. Francis Cunningham, Vicar of St. Margaret's, Lowestoft,
who had married a sister of the Quaker banker, Joseph John Gurney, and through the offices
of these two, Borrow was invited to go before the British and Foreign Bible Society, as a candidate
for employment in some branch of the Society's work where his knowledge of languages would
be useful.  He walked to London for the purpose in December, 1832.  The Society was satisfied
and sent him back to Norwich to learn the Manchu-Tartar language.  There he wrote a letter,
which, if we take Dr. Knapp's word for it, was "a sort of recantation of the Taylorism of 1824."
Being now near thirty, and perhaps having his worst "horrors" behind him, or at least having
reason to think so if he was already fond of Mrs. Clarke, whom he afterwards married, it was
easy for him to fall into the same way of speaking as these good and kindly people, and to
abuse Buddhism, which he did not understand, for their delectation.  Mrs. Clarke had four or
five hundred pounds a year of her own, and one child, a daughter, then about fourteen years
old.  Perhaps it was natural that he should remember then, as he did later, the words of the
cheerful and forgetful wise man: "I have been young and now am grown old, yet never have I
seen the righteous forsaken, or his seed begging bread."

From a gloomily fanatical atheist Borrow changed to a cheerfully fanatical Protestant, described
as "of the middle order in society, and a very produceable person." {126}  He was probably
never a good atheist of the reasonable critical type like William Taylor, whose thinking was
too dull and too difficult for him.  Above all it was too negative and unrelated to anything
but the brain for the man who wrote "Lines to Six- foot-three" and consorted with Gypsies.
He had taken atheism along with Taylor's literary and linguistic teaching, perhaps with some
eagerness at first as a form of protest against conventionally pious and respectable Norwich
life.  The Bible Society and Mrs. Clarke and her friends came radiant and benevolent to his
"looped and windowed" atheism.  They gave him friends and money: they gave him an occupation
on which he felt, and afterwards found, that he could spend his hesitating energies.  He gathered
up all his powers to serve the Bible Society.  He suffered hunger, cold, imprisonment, wounded
feet, long hours of indoor labour and long hours of dismal attendance upon inexorable official
delay. Personally he irritated Mr. Brandram, the secretary, and his bold and unexpected ways
gave the Society something to put up with, but he was always a faithful and enthusiastic servant.
He had many reasons for being grateful to them.  He, who was going to get himself imprisoned
for atheism, had already become, as Mr. Cunningham thought, a man "of certain Christian principle,"
if "of no very exactly defined denomination of Christians."  He certainly did become an unquestioning
wild missionary--though not merely wild, for he was discreet in his boldness; he was careful
to save the Society money; he made himself respected by the highest English and Spanish officials
in Spain; so that in 1837, for the first time in the Society's history, an English ambassador
made their cause a national one.  He wanted to shout and the Bible Society gave him something
to shout for.  He wanted to fight and they gave him something to fight for.  'Hallo!

He was as sure in 1839 as in 1857 of the diabolic power and intention of Popery, that "unrelenting
fiend," whose secrets few, he said, knew more than himself. {128a}

In the gladness of his now fully exerted powers of body and mind, travelling in wild country
and observing and conflicting with men, he adopted not merely the unctuous phraseology of "I
am at present, thanks be to the Lord, comfortable and happy," {128b} but a more attractive
religious arrogance. {128c} He painted himself as a possible martyr among the wild Catholics,
a St. Stephen.  When he suffered at the same time from hardship and the Society's disfavour,
he exclaimed: "It was God's will that I, who have risked all and lost almost all in the cause,
be taunted, suspected, and the sweat of agony and tears which I have poured out be estimated
at the value of the water of the ditch or the moisture which exudes from rotten dung.  But
I murmur not, and hope I shall at all times be willing to bow to the dispensations of the Almighty."
{128d}  He exulted in melodramatic nature, in the sublime of Salvator Rosa, in the desperate,
wild, and strange.  His very prayers, as reported by himself to the Secretary, distressed the
Society because they were "passionate."  True, he could sometimes, under the inspiration of
the respectable Secretary, write like a perfect middle-class English Christian.  He condemned
the Sunday amusements of Hamburg, for example, remarking that "England, with all her faults,
has still some regard to decency, and will not tolerate such a shameful display of vice" (as
rope-dancing) "in so sacred a season, when a decent cheerfulness is the freest form in which
the mind or countenance ought to invest themselves." {129a}  He argued against the translator
of the Bible into Manchu that concessions should not be made to a Chinese way of thought, because
it was the object of the Society to wean the Chinese from their own customs and observances,
not to encourage them. But the opposite extreme was more congenial to Borrow.  He would go
to the market place in a remote Spanish village and display his Testaments on the outspread
horsecloth, crying: "Peasants, peasants, I bring you the Word of God at a cheap price." {129b}
He would disguise himself, travelling with a sack of Testaments on his donkey; and when a woman
asked if it was soap he had, he answered: "Yes; it is soap to wash souls clean."  This was
the man to understand Peter Williams, the Welsh preacher who had committed the sin against
the Holy Ghost and wandered about preaching and refusing a roof.  Neither must it be forgotten
that this was the man who, in a conversation not reported to the Bible Society, said: "What
befalls my body or soul was written in a gabicote a thousand years before the foundation of
the world."

Borrow was only seven weeks in getting so far as to be able to translate from Manchu, though
it had been said, as he pointed out, that the language took five or six years to acquire. 
It cost him an even shorter time to acquire the dialect of his employers, for in less than
a month after he had retired to Norwich to learn Manchu, he was writing thus:

"Revd. and Dear Sir,--I have just received your communication, and notwithstanding it is Sunday
morning, and the bells with their loud and clear voices are calling me to church, I have sat
down to answer it by return of post. . . .

"Return my kind and respected friend, Mr. Brandram, my best thanks for his present of 'The
Gypsies' Advocate,' and assure him that, next to the acquirement of Mandchou, the conversion
and enlightening of those interesting people occupy the principal place in my mind. . . . {130}

Never had his linguistic power a greater or more profitable triumph than in this acquisition.
As this was probably a dialect not unknown at Earlham, Norwich, and Oulton, among people whom
he loved, respected, or beheld successful, the difficulty of the task was a little decreased.
Thurtell and Haggart had passed away, Petulengro had not yet reappeared. There was no one to
tell him that he was living in a country and an age that were afterwards to appear among the
most ignorant and cruel on record.  He himself had not yet discovered the "gentility-nonsense,"
nor did he ever discover that gentility was of the same family, if it was not an albinism of
the same species, as pious and oily respectability.  So delighted was he with the new dialect
that he rolled it on his tongue to the confusion of habitues, who had to rap him over the knuckles
for speaking of becoming "useful to the Deity, to man, and to himself."

In July, 1833, Borrow was appointed, with a salary of 200 pounds a year and expenses, to go
to St. Petersburg, to help in editing a Manchu translation of the New Testament, or transcribing
and collating a translation of the Old, accompanied by a warning against "a tone of confidence
in speaking of yourself" in such a phrase as "useful to the Deity, to man, and to yourself."
Borrow accepted the correction, and Norwich laughed at him in his new suit.  At the end of
July he sailed, and as at this time he had no objection to gentility he regretted the end of
his passage with so many "genteel, well-bred and intelligent passengers," though he had suffered
from sea-sickness, followed by "the horrors."

St. Petersburg he thought the finest of the many capitals he had seen.  He made the acquaintance
of several men who could help him with their learning and their books, and above all he gained
the friendship of John P. Hasfeldt, a Dane, a little older than himself, who was interpreter
to the Danish Legation and teacher of European languages, evidently a man after Borrow's own
heart, with his opinion that "The greater part of those products of art, called 'the learned,'
would not be able to earn a living if our Lord were not a guardian of fools."  The copying
of the Old Testament was finished by the end of the year, without having prevented Borrow from
profiting by his unusual facilities for the acquisition of languages.  He had then to superintend,
or as it fell out, to help largely with his own hands, the printing of the first Manchu translation
of the New Testament, with type which had first to be cleansed of ten years' rust and with
compositors who knew nothing of Manchu.  Lacking almost in time to eat or to sleep he impressed
the Bible Society by his prodigious labours under "the blessing of a kind and gracious Providence
watching over the execution of a work in which the wide extension of the Saviour's glory is
involved."

He was living cheaply, suffering sometimes from "the horrors," and curing them with port wine--sending
money home to his mother, bidding her to employ a maid and to read and "think as much of God
as possible."  Nor was he doing merely what he was bound to do.  For example, he translated
some of the "Homilies of the Church of England" into Russian and into Manchu.  He also published
in St. Petersburg his "Targum" and "Talisman," a short further collection of translations from
Pushkin, Mickiewicz, and from Russian national songs.  The work was finished and formally and
kindly approved by the Bible Society.  He had proposed long before that he should distribute
the books himself, wandering overland with them by Lake Baikal and Kiakhta right to Pekin;
but the Russian Government refused a passport.  Dr. Knapp believes that this intention of going
among the Tartars and overland from Russia to Pekin was the sole ground for his crediting himself
with travels in the Far East.  In the flesh he had to content himself with a journey to Novgorod
and Moscow.  As he had visited the Jews at Hamburg so he did the Gypsies at Moscow.  This adventure
moved him to his first characteristic piece of prose, in a letter to the Society.  This letter,
which was afterwards printed in the "Athenaeum," {132} and incorporated in "The Zincali," mentions
the Gypsies who have become successful singers and married noblemen, but continues:

"It is not, however, to be supposed that all the female Gypsies are of this high, talented
and respectable order: amongst them are many low and profligate females, who sing at taverns
or at the various gardens in the neighbourhood, and whose husbands and male connexions subsist
by horse jobbing and like kinds of traffic.  The principal place of resort of this class is
Marina Rotche, lying about two versts from Moscow, and thither I drove, attended by a valet
de place.  Upon my arriving there, the Gypsies swarmed out from their tents, and from the little
tradeer, or tavern, and surrounded me; standing on the seat of the caleche, I addressed them
in a loud voice in the dialect of the English Gypsies, with which I have some slight acquaintance.
A scream of wonder instantly arose, and welcomes and greetings were poured forth in torrents
of musical Rommany, amongst which, however, the most prominent air was, 'Ah kak mi toute karmama,'
'Oh, how we love you'; for at first they supposed me to be one of their brothers, who they
said, were wandering about in Turkey, China, and other parts, and that I had come over the
great pawnee, or water, to visit them. . . . I visited this place several times during my sojourn
at Moscow, and spoke to them upon their sinful manner of living, upon the advent and suffering
of Christ Jesus, and expressed, upon my taking leave of them, a hope that they would be in
a short period furnished with the word of eternal life in their own language, which they seemed
to value and esteem much higher than the Russian."

The tone of this letter suggests that it was meant for the Bible Society--and a copy was addressed
to them--but at this date it is possible to see in it an outline of the Gypsy gentleman, very
much the gentleman, the "colossal clergyman" of later days.

Borrow liked the Russians, and for some reasons was sorry to leave them and Hasfeldt in September,
1835.  But for other reasons he was glad.  He would see his mother and comfort her for the
loss of her elder son in November, 1833, as he had already done to some extent by telling her
that he would "endeavour to get ordained."  He also would see Mrs. Clarke, with whom he had
been corresponding for the past two years.  Both she and his mother had been unwilling for
him to go to Pekin.

CHAPTER XVIII--THE BIBLE SOCIETY: SPAIN

Borrow's chief regret at leaving Russia was that his active life was interrupted, perhaps at
an end.  He was dreading the old life of unprofitable study with no complete friends.  But
luckily, when he had only been a month in England, the Bible Society resolved to send him to
Lisbon and Oporto, to look for openings for circulating the Bible in Portugal and perhaps in
Spain.  After this they had thoughts of sending him to China by sea.  In November, 1835, he
sailed for Lisbon.

Spain was at this time the victim of private quarrels which had been allowed to assume public
importance.  King Ferdinand VII. had twice been restored to an unloving people by foreign,
especially English, aid.  This King had for heir his brother Carlos, until his fourth wife,
Maria Christina, bore him a daughter, Isabella, in 1830; and to secure her succession he set
aside the Salic law.  In 1833 he died.  Isabella II. was proclaimed Queen, and Christina Regent.
Christinists and Carlists were soon at war, and very bloody war.  The English intervened, once
diplomatically, once with a foreign legion.  The war wavered, with success now to the Carlist
Generals Zumalacarregui and Cabrera and now to the Christinist Espartero.  There were new Prime
Ministers about twice yearly.  The parties were divided amongst themselves, and treachery was
common.  The only result that could always be foreseen was that the people and the country
would suffer.  Not until 1841 did Espartero finally defeat Cabrera.

Portugal, in 1835, had just had its eight years of civil war between the partisans of a child--Maria
II.--aged seven, and her uncle, Miguel, ending in the departure of Miguel.  Borrow made a preliminary
journey in the forlorn country and decided for Spain instead.  Escaping the bullets of Portuguese
soldiers, he crossed the boundary at the beginning of 1836 and entered Badajoz.  There he met
the Gypsies, and put off his journey to Madrid to see more of them and translate the fifteenth
chapter of St. Luke into their tongue.  At Merida he stopped again for a Gypsy wedding. His
guide was the Gypsy, Antonio Lopez, who sold him the donkey which he rode as far as Talavera.
At Madrid his business was to print the New Testament in a Spanish Catholic translation.  He
had to wait; but with a new Cabinet permission was obtained and arrangements for the printing
were made.  The Revolution of La Granja, which he describes in "The Bible in Spain," caused
another delay.  Then, in October, after a visit to the Gypsies of Granada, he returned to London.

He had written long letters to the Bible Society, and one which was combined and published
in the "Athenaeum" with that written from Moscow. It is dated, Madrid, July 19, 1836, but describes
his visit to Badajoz on January 6.  He says, on entering Badajoz:

"I instantly returned thanks to God, who had protected me during a journey of five days through
the wilds of the Alemtejo, the province of Portugal the most infested by robbers and desperate
characters, and which I had traversed with no other human companion than a lad, nearly idiotic,
who was to convey back the mules which carried myself and luggage."

Two men were passing him in the street, and seeing the face of one he touched his arm: "I said
a certain word, to which, after an exclamation of surprise, he responded in the manner I expected."
They were Gypsies. He continues:

"They left me in haste and went about the town informing the rest that a stranger had arrived
who spoke Rommany as well as themselves, who had the eyes and face of a Gitano, and seemed
to be of the 'cratti' or blood.  In less than half an hour the street before the inn was filled
with the men, women and children of Egypt.  I went out amongst them, and my heart sank within
me as I surveyed them; so much squalidness, dirt and misery I had never before seen amongst
a similar number of human beings; but the worst of all was the evil expression of their countenances,
denoting that they were familiar with every species of crime, and it was not long before I
found that their countenances did not belie them.  After they had asked me an infinity of questions,
and felt my hands, face, and clothes, they returned to their homes."

He stayed with them nearly three weeks, he says; about ten days, says Dr. Knapp.  Borrow continues:

"The result of my observations was a firm belief that the Spanish Gitanos are the most vile,
degraded and wretched people upon the earth.  The great wickedness of these outcasts may, perhaps,
be attributed to their having abandoned their wandering life and become inmates of the towns,
where, to the original bad traits of their character, they have superadded the evil and vicious
habits of the rabble. . . . They listened with admiration, but alas, not of the truths, the
eternal truths I was telling them, but at finding that their broken jargon could be written
and read; the only words of assent to the heavenly doctrine which I ever obtained, and which
were rather of the negative kind, were the following, from a woman--'Brother! you tell us strange
things, though perhaps you do not lie; a month since I would sooner have believed these tales
than that I should this day have seen one who could write Rommany.' . . ."

He preserves the clergyman, but deepens the Gypsy stain.  The "Athenaeum" was "not at liberty
on this occasion" to publish the name of this man whom Gypsies called "Brother," but apparently
it would not be the name of any writer hitherto known to readers of the "Athenaeum."

He was a month in England, and then left for Spain to print and distribute Testaments.  He
had hardly put his feet on Spanish soil than, said the Marquis of Santa Colona, {137} he "looked
round, saw some Gypsies lounging there, said something that the Marquis could not understand,
and immediately 'that man became une grappe de Gitanos.' They hung round his neck, clung to
his knees, seized his hands, kissed his feet, so that the Marquis hardly liked to join his
comrade again, after such close embraces by so dirty a company."  At Cordova he was very well
received by the Gypsies "on the supposition that he was one of their own race."  He says in
"The Gypsies of Spain":

"As for myself, I was admitted without scruple to their private meetings, and was made a participator
of their most secret thoughts.  During our intercourse, some remarkable scenes occurred: one
night more than twenty of us, men and women, were assembled in a long low room on the ground
floor, in a dark alley or court in the old gloomy town of Cordova.  After the Gitanos had discussed
several jockey plans, and settled some private bargains amongst themselves, we all gathered
round a huge brasero of flaming charcoal, and began conversing sobre las cosas de Egypto, when
I proposed that, as we had no better means of amusing ourselves, we should endeavour to turn
into the Calo language some piece of devotion, that we might see whether this language, the
gradual decay of which I had frequently heard them lament, was capable of expressing any other
matters than those which related to horses, mules, and Gypsy traffic.  It was in this cautious
manner that I first endeavoured to divert the attention of these singular people to matters
of eternal importance.  My suggestion was received with acclamations, and we forthwith proceeded
to the translation of the Apostle's Creed.  I first recited in Spanish, in the usual manner
and without pausing, this noble confession, and then repeated it again, sentence by sentence,
the Gitanos translating as I proceeded.  They exhibited the greatest eagerness and interest
in their unwonted occupation, and frequently broke into loud disputes as to the best rendering--many
being offered at the same time.  In the meanwhile, I wrote down from their dictation, and at
the conclusion I read aloud the translation, the result of the united wisdom of the assembly,
whereupon they all raised a shout of exultation, and appeared not a little proud of the composition."

In his desire to see the Gypsies and the ways of the people he more than doubled his difficulties,
and suffered from cold and the rudeness of the roads and of the people.  But in spite of the
internecine civil war he got safe to Madrid.  Printing was begun in 1837, and when copies were
ready Borrow advertised them and arranged for their distribution.  He himself set out with
his servant, Antonio Buchini, a Greek of Constantinople, who had served an infinity of masters,
and once been a cook to the overbearing General Cordova, and answered the General's sword with
a pistol.  They travelled to Salamanca, Valladolid, Leon, Astorga, Villafranca, Lugo, Coruna,
to Santiago, Vigo, and again to Coruna, to Ferrol, Oviedo, Santander, Burgos, Valladolid, and
so back to Madrid in October.  He had suffered from fever, dysentery and ophthalmia on the
journey.  According to Dr. Knapp it was the most unpropitious country possible.  If chosen
by anything but ignorance, it must have been by whim and the unconscious desire to delight
posterity and amaze Dr. Knapp. Borrow had met, among others, Benedict Mol, the Swiss seeker
after treasure hidden in the earth under the Church of San Roque at St. James' of Compostella.
This traveller was not his only acquaintance.  He formed a friendship at Madrid with the Spanish
scholar, Luis de Usoz, afterwards editor of "The Early Spanish Reformers," who became a member
of the Bible Society, helped Borrow in editing the Spanish Testament, and looked after his
interests while he was away from Madrid.  At St. James' itself he made a friend and a co-operator
of the old bookseller, Rey Romero, who knew Benedict Moll.

Borrow returned to the sale of Testaments at Madrid, and to his own favourite project of printing
his Spanish Gypsy translation of the Gospel of St. Luke.  To advertise his Testaments he posted
up and sent about flaming tricoloured placards.  This was too much for the Moderate Government
which had followed the Liberals: the sale of Testaments was stopped, and that for thirty years
after.  The officials had been irritated by the far graver indiscretions of another but irregular
agent of the Bible Society, Lieutenant Graydon, R.N., "a fervid Irish Protestant." {139}  Apparently
this man had advertised Bibles in Valencia as to be sold at very low prices and even given
away; had printed abuse of the Spanish clergy and Government, and had described himself as
co- operating with Borrow.  Except at Madrid, the Bibles and Testaments in Borrow's depots
throughout Spain were seized by the Government.  The books had at last to be sent out of the
country, British Consuls were forbidden to countenance religious agents; and in the opinion
of the Consul at Seville, J. M. Brackenbury, this was directly due to Graydon's indiscretions.
The Society were kind to him.  They cautioned him not to attack Popery, but to leave the Bible
to speak for itself.  The caution was vain, but in spite of the harm done to Borrow and themselves
they recalled Graydon with but a qualified disavowal of his conduct.  Borrow did not conceal
from the Society his opinion that this man, with his "lunatic vagaries," had been the "evil
genius" of the Bible cause and of himself.  The incident did no good to the already bickering
relations between Borrow and the Rev. A. Brandram, the Secretary.  Evidently Borrow's character
jarred upon Brandram, who took revenge by a tone of facetious cavil and several criticisms
upon Borrow's ways, upon his confident masculine tone, for example, his "passionate" prayer,
and his confession of superstitious obedience to an ominous dream.  Brandram even took the
trouble to remind Borrow that when it came to distribution in Russia his success had ended:
which was true but not through any fault of his.  Borrow took the criticism as if applied to
his Spanish work also, saying: "It was unkind and unjust to taunt me with having been unsuccessful
in distributing the Scriptures.  Allow me to state that no other person under the same circumstances
would have distributed the tenth part.  Yet had I been utterly unsuccessful, it would have
been wrong to charge me with being so, after all I have undergone--and with how little of that
are you acquainted." {140}  If Borrow had been as revengeful as Dr. Knapp believed him, he
would not have allowed Brandram to escape an immortality of hate in "Lavengro" or "The Romany Rye."

Borrow irritated the Spanish Government yet a little more by issuing his Gypsy "Luke," and
in May, 1838, he was illegally imprisoned in the Carcel de Corte, where he insisted upon staying
until he was set free with honour and the payment of his expenses.  He vindicated his position
by a letter to a newspaper, pointing out that his Society was neither sectarian nor political,
and that he was their sole authorised agent. This led directly to the breaking of his connection
with the Bible Society, who reprimanded him for his letter and virtually recalled him from Spain.

Nevertheless Borrow made a series of excursions into the country to sell his Testaments, until
in August he was definitely recalled.  He returned to England, as he says himself, for "change
of scene and air" after an attack of fever.  He obtained a new lease from the Bible Society
and was back in Spain at the end of 1838.  Early in 1839 he made further excursions with Antonio
Lopez to sell his Testaments, until he had to stop.  Thereupon he went to Seville.  He was
still forming plans on behalf of the Society.  He wished to go to La Mancha, the worst part
of Spain, then through Saragossa and into France.

At Seville it was, in May, 1839, that Colonel Napier met him.  Nobody knew who, or of what
nationality, he was--this "mysterious Unknown," the white-haired young man, with dark eyes
of almost supernatural penetration and lustre, who gave himself out to be thirty instead of
thirty-five, who spoke English, French, Italian, Spanish, German, and Romaic to those who best
understood these languages.  Borrow and Napier rode out together to the ruins of Italica:

"We sat down," he says, "on a fragment of the walls; the "Unknown" began to feel the vein of
poetry creeping through his inward soul, and gave vent to it by reciting, with great emphasis
and effect, the following well-known and beautiful lines:

   "Cypress and ivy, weed and wallflower, grown
   Matted and massed together, hillocks heap'd
   On what were chambers, arch crush'd, column strown
   In fragments, choked up vaults, and frescoes steep'd
   In subterranean damps, where the owl peep'd,
   Deeming it midnight:--Temples, baths, or halls--
   Pronounce who can; for all that Learning reap'd
   From her research hath been, that these are walls."

"I had been too much taken up with the scene, the verses, and the strange being who was repeating
them with so much feeling, to notice the approach of a slight female figure, beautiful in the
extreme, but whose tattered garments, raven hair, swarthy complexion, and flashing eyes, proclaimed
her to be of the wandering tribe of Gitanos.  From an intuitive sense of politeness she stood
with crossed arms and a slight smile on her dark and handsome countenance, until my companion
had ceased, and then addressed us in the usual whining tone of supplication--'Gentlemen, a
little charity; God will repay it to you!'  The Gypsy girl was so pretty and her voice so sweet,
that I involuntarily put my hand in my pocket.

"'Stop!' said the 'Unknown.'  'Do you remember what I told you of the Eastern origin of these
people?  You shall see I am correct.'  'Come here, my pretty child,' said he in Moultanee,
'and tell me where are the rest of your tribe.'  The girl looked astounded, and replied in
the same tongue, but in broken language; when, taking him by the arm, she said in Spanish:
'Come, Caballero, come to one who will be able to answer you'; and she led the way down among
the ruins towards one of the dens formerly occupied by the wild beasts, and disclosed to us
a set of beings scarcely less savage.  The sombre walls of this gloomy abode were illumined
by a fire, the smoke from which escaped through a deep fissure in the mossy roof, whilst the
flickering flames threw a blood-red glare on the bronzed features of a group of children, two
men, and a decrepit old hag who appeared busily engaged in some culinary operations.

"On our entrance, the scowling glance of the males of the party, and a quick motion of the
hand towards the folds of the faja (where the clasp- knife is concealed), caused in me, at
least, anything but a comfortable sensation; but their hostile intentions were immediately
removed by a wave of the hand from our conductress, who, leading my companion towards the sibyl,
whispered something in her ear.  The old crone appeared incredulous.  The 'Unknown' uttered
one word; but that word had the effect of magic.  She prostrated herself at his feet, and in
an instant, from an object of suspicion, he became one of worship to the whole family, to whom
on taking leave he made a handsome present, and departed with their united blessings.

"I was, as the phrase goes, dying with curiosity, and as soon as we mounted our horses, exclaimed:
'Where, in the name of goodness, did you pick up your acquaintance with the language of these
extraordinary people?'  'Some years ago, in Moultan,' he replied.  'And by what means do you
possess such apparent influence over them?'  But the 'Unknown' had already said more than he
perhaps wished on the subject.  He dryly replied that he had more than once owed his life to
Gypsies and had reason to know them well; but this was said in a tone which precluded all further
queries on my part."

This report is a wonderful testimony to Borrow's power, for he seems to have made the Colonel
write almost like himself and produce a picture exactly like those which he so often draws
of himself.

From Seville Borrow took a journey of a few weeks to Tangier and Barbary. There he met the
strongest man in Tangier, one of the old Moors of Granada, who waved a barrel of water over
his head as if it had been a quart pot.  There he and his Jewish servant, Hayim Ben Attar,
sold Testaments, and, says he, "with humble gratitude to the Lord," the blessed Book was soon
in the hands of most of the Christians in Tangier. But with an account of his first day in
the city he concluded "The Bible in Spain."

When he was back again in Seville he had the society of Mrs. Clarke and her daughter; Henrietta,
who had come to Spain to avoid some legal difficulties and presumably to see Borrow.  Before
the end of 1839 the engagement of Borrow and Mrs. Clarke was announced without surprising old
Mrs. Borrow at Norwich.  In November Borrow wrote almost his last long letter to the Bible
Society.  He had the advantage of a singular address, being for the moment in the prison of
Seville, where he had been illegally thrown, after a quarrel with the Alcalde over the matter
of a passport.  He told them how this "ruffian" quailed before his gaze of defiance.  He told
them how well he was treated by his fellow prisoners:

{picture: The Summer House, Oulton Cottage.  Photo: C. Wilson, Lowestoft: page145.jpg}

"The black-haired man who is now looking over my shoulder is the celebrated thief Palacio,
the most expert housebreaker and dexterous swindler in Spain--in a word, the modern Guzman
Dalfarache.  The brawny man who sits by the brasero of charcoal, is Salvador, the highwayman
of Ronda, who has committed a hundred murders.  A fashionably dressed man, short and slight
in person, is walking about the room: he wears immense whiskers and mustachios; he is one of
that most singular race of Jews of Spain; he is imprisoned for counterfeiting money.  He is
an atheist, but like a true Jew, the name which he most hates is that of Christ: . . ." {144}
So well did Borrow choose his company, even in prison.  Some of his letters to the Society
went astray at this time and he was vainly expected in England.  He was able to send them a
very high testimony to his discretion from the English Consul at Seville, and he himself reminded
them that he had been "fighting with wild beasts" during this last visit.  The Society several
times repeated his recall, but he did not return, apparently because he wished to remain with
Mrs. Clarke in Seville, and because he no longer felt himself at their beck and call.  He was
also at work on "The Gypsies of Spain."  Nevertheless he wrote to the Society in March, 1840,
a letter which would have been remarkable from another man about to marry a wife, for he said
that he wished to spend the remaining years of his life in the northern parts of China, as
he thought he had a call, and still hoped "to die in the cause of my Redeemer."  In April he
left Spain with Mrs. and Miss Clarke.  Fifty or sixty years later Mrs. Joseph Pennell "saw
the sign, 'G. Borrow, Agent of the British and Foreign Bible Society,' high upon a house in
the Plaza de la Constitucion, in Seville."  Borrow was never again in Spain.  After reporting
himself for the last time to the Society, and making a suggestion which Brandram answered by
saying, "the door seems shut," he married Mrs. Clarke on April 23, 1840.  She had 450 pounds
a year and a home at Oulton.  His wife wrote letters for him, copied his manuscripts, and helped
to correct his proofs.  She remained at Oulton, or Yarmouth, while he went about; if he went
to Wales or Ireland she sometimes accompanied him to a convenient centre and there remained
while he did as he pleased.  She admired him, and she appears to have become essential to his
life, apart from her income, and not to have resented her position at any time, though grieved
by his unconcealed melancholy.

A second time he praised her in print, saying that he had an exceedingly clever wife, and allowed
her "to buy and sell, carry money to the bank, draw cheques, inspect and pay tradesmen's bills,
and transact all my real business, whilst I myself pore over old books, walk about the shires,
discoursing with Gypsies, under hedgerows, or with sober bards--in hedge alehouses."

CHAPTER XIX--"THE ZINCALI"

Borrow and his wife and stepdaughter settled at Oulton Cottage before the spring of 1840 was
over.  This house, the property of Mrs. Borrow, was separated from Oulton Broad only by a slope
of lawn, at the foot of which was a private boat.  Away from the house, but equally near lawn
and water stood Borrow's library--a little peaked octagonal summer house, with toplights and
windows.  The cottage is gone, but the summer house, now mantled with ivy, where he wrote "The
Bible in Spain" and "Lavengro," is still to be seen.  Here, too, he arranged and completed
the book written "at considerable intervals during a period of nearly five years passed in
Spain--in moments snatched from more important pursuits--chiefly in ventas and posadas (inns),
whilst wandering through the country in the arduous and unthankful task of distributing the
Gospel among its children,"--"The Zincali: or the Gypsies of Spain."  It was published in April,
1841.

This book is a description of Gypsies in Spain and wherever else he has met them, with some
history, and, as Borrow says himself, with "more facts than theories."  It abounds in quotations
from out of the way Spanish books, but was by far "less the result of reading than of close
observation."  It is patched together from scattered notes with little order or proportion,
and cannot be regarded as a whole either in intention or effect.  Nor is this wholly due to
the odd times and places in which it was written.  Borrow had never before written a continuous
original work of any length.  He had formed no clear idea of himself, his public, or his purpose.
Personality was strong in him and it had to be expressed.  He was full also of extraordinary
observation, and this he could not afford to conceal.  It was not easy to satisfy the two needs
in one coherent book; he hardly tried, and he certainly did not succeed. Ford described it
well in his review of "The Bible in Spain": {148}

"'The Gypsies of Spain' was a Spanish olla--a hotchpotch of the jockey tramper, philologist,
and missionary.  It was a thing of shreds and patches--a true book of Spain; the chapters,
like her bundle of unamalgamating provinces, were just held together, and no more, by the common
tie of religion; yet it was strange and richly flavoured with genuine borracha.  It was the
first work of a diffident, inexperienced man, who, mistrusting his own powers, hoped to conciliate
critics by leaning on Spanish historians and Gypsy poets."

Nevertheless, "The Zincali" is a book that is still valuable for these two separate elements
of personality and extraordinary observation. Probably Borrow, his publisher, and the public,
regarded it chiefly as a work of information, picturesquely diversified, and this it still
is, though the increase and systematization of Gypsy studies are said to have superseded it.
A book of spirit cannot be superseded.  But pure information does not live long, and the fact
that its information is inaccurate or incomplete does not rot a book like "The Compleat Angler"
or the "Georgics."  Thus it may happen that the first book on a subject is the best, and its
successors mere treatises destined to pave the way for other treatises.  "The Gypsies of Spain"
is still read as no other book on the Gypsy is read.  It is still read, not only by those just
infected with Gypsy fever, but by men as men.  It does not, indeed, survive as a whole, because
it never was a whole, but there is a spirit in the best parts sufficiently strong to carry
the reader on over the rest.

To-day very few will do more than smile when Borrow says of the Gypsies, that there can be
no doubt "they are human beings and have immortal souls," and that the chief object of his
book is to "draw the attention of the Christian philanthropist towards them, especially that
degraded and unhappy portion of them, the Gitanos of Spain."  In 1841 many of the Christian
public probably felt a slight glow of satisfaction at starting on a book that brought the then
certain millenium, of a Christian and English cast, definitely nearer.  Probably they liked
to know that this missionary called pugilistic combats "disgraceful and brutalising exhibitions";
and they were almost as certainly, as we are to-day, delighted with the descriptions that followed,
because it brought for the first time clearly before them a real prize-fighting scene, and
the author, a terrible child of fourteen, looking on--"why should I hide the truth?" says he.
This excellent moral tone accompanied the reader of 1841 with satisfaction to the end.  For
example, Borrow describes the Gypsies at Tarifa swindling a country man and woman out of their
donkey. When he sees them being treated and fondled by their intending robbers, he exclaims:
"Behold, poor humanity, thought I to myself, in the hands of devils; in this manner are human
souls ensnared to destruction by the fiends of the pit."  When he sees them departing penniless
and without their donkey, the woman bitterly lamenting it, he comments: "Upon the whole, however,
I did not much pity them.  The woman was certainly not the man's wife.  The labourer had probably
left his village with some strolling harlot, bringing with him the animal which had previously
served to support himself and a family."  Borrow was a man who pronounced the Bible to be "the
wonderful Book which is capable of resolving every mystery."  He was a man, furthermore, who
called sorcery simply "a thing impossible," and thus addressed a writer on chiromancy: "We
. . . believe that the lines of the hand have as little connection with the events of life
as with the liver and stomach, notwithstanding Aristotle, who you forget was a heathen and
cared as little for the Scriptures as the Gitanos, whether male or female."

Another satisfactory side to Borrow's public character, as revealed in "The Zincali," was his
contempt for "other nations," such as Spain--"a country whose name has long and justly been
considered as synonymous with every species of ignorance and barbarism."  His voice rises when
he says that "avarice has always been the dominant passion in Spanish minds, their rage for
money being only to be compared to the wild hunger of wolves for horseflesh in the time of
winter; next to avarice, envy of superior talent and accomplishment is the prevailing passion."
These were the people whom he had gone to convert.  His contempt for those who were not middle-class
Englishmen seemed unmitigated.  Speaking of the Gypsies, to whom the schools were open and
the laws kinder, he points out that, nevertheless, they remain jockeys and blacksmiths, though
it is true they have in part given up their wandering life.  But "much," he says, "will have
been accomplished if, after the lapse of a hundred years, one hundred human beings shall have
been evolved from the Gypsy stock who shall prove sober, honest, and useful members of society,"
i.e., resembling the Spaniards whom he so condemned.

But if men love a big fellow at the street corner bellowing about sin and the wrath to come,
they love him better if he was a black sinner before he became white as the driven snow.  Borrow
reprimanded Spaniard and Gypsy, but he also knew them: there is even a suspicion that he liked
them, though in his public black-coated capacity he had to condemn them and regret that their
destiny was perdition.  Had he not said, in his preface, that he had known the Gypsies for
twenty years and that they treated him well because they thought him a Gypsy? and in another
place referred to the time when he lived with the English Gypsies?  Had he not, in his introductions,
spoken of "my brethren, the Smiths," a phrase then cryptic and only to be explained by revealing
his sworn brotherhood with Ambrose Smith, the Jasper Petulengro of later books?

If a man wishes to condemn the seven deadly sins we tolerate him if in the process they are
sufficiently well described.  If Borrow described the tinker family as wretched, and their
donkey as miserable, he added, "though life, seemingly so wretched, has its charms for these
outcasts, who live without care and anxiety, without a thought beyond the present hour, and
who sleep as sound in ruined posadas and ventas, or in ravines amongst rocks and pines, as
the proudest grandee in his palace at Seville or Madrid."  If he condemned superstition, he
yet thought it possibly "founded on a physical reality"; he regarded the moon as the true "evil
eye," and bade men "not sleep uncovered beneath the smile of the moon, for her glance is poisonous,
and produces insupportable itching in the eye, and not infrequently blindness."  If he believed
in the immortality of the soul, he did not disdain to know the vendor of poisons who was a
Gypsy.  If he stayed three weeks in Badajoz because he knew he should never meet any people
"more in need of a little Christian exhortation" than the Gypsies, he did not fill his pages
with three weeks of Christian exhortation, but told the story of the Gypsy soldier, Antonio--how
he recognised as a Gypsy the enemy who was about to kill him, and saved himself from the uplifted
bayonet by crying "Zincalo, Zincalo!" and then, having been revived by him, sat for hours with
his late enemy, who said: "Let the dogs fight and tear each other's throats till they are all
destroyed, what matters it to the Zincali? they are not of our blood, and shall that be shed
for them?"  This man who, if he had his way, would have washed his face in the blood of the
Busne (those who are not Gypsies), this man called Borrow "brother!"  If Borrow distributed
Testaments, he knew little more of the recipients than a bolt from the blue, or if he did he
cared to tell but little.  That little is the story of the Gypsy soldier, Chaleco, who came
to him at Madrid in 1838 with a copy of the Testament.  He told his story from his cradle up;
he imposed himself on Borrow's hospitality, eating "like a wolf of the Sierra," and drinking
in proportion.  Borrow could only escape from him by dining out. When Borrow was imprisoned
the fellow drew his sword at the news and vowed to murder the Prime Minister "for having dared
to imprison his brother."  In what follows, Borrow reveals in a consummate manner his power
of drawing into his vicinity extraordinary events:

"On my release, I did not revisit my lodgings for some days, but lived at an hotel.  I returned
late one afternoon, with my servant Francisco, a Basque of Hernani, who had served me with
the utmost fidelity during my imprisonment, which he had voluntarily shared with me.  The first
person I saw on entering was the Gypsy soldier, seated by the table, whereon were several bottles
of wine which he had ordered from the tavern, of course on my account.  He was smoking, and
looked savage and sullen; perhaps he was not much pleased with the reception he had experienced.
He had forced himself in, and the woman of the house sat in a corner looking upon him with
dread.  I addressed him, but he would scarcely return an answer.  At last he commenced discoursing
with great volubility in Gypsy and Latin.  I did not understand much of what he said.  His
words were wild and incoherent, but he repeatedly threatened some person.  The last bottle
was now exhausted--he demanded more.  I told him in a gentle manner that he had drunk enough.
He looked on the ground for some time, then slowly, and somewhat hesitatingly, drew his sword
and laid it on the table.  It was become dark.  I was not afraid of the fellow, but I wished
to avoid any thing unpleasant.  I called to Francisco to bring lights, and obeying a sign which
I made him, he sat down at the table.  The Gypsy glared fiercely upon him--Francisco laughed,
and began with great glee to talk in Basque, of which the Gypsy understood not a word.  The
Basques, like all Tartars, and such they are, are paragons of fidelity and good nature; they
are only dangerous when outraged, when they are terrible indeed.  Francisco to the strength
of a giant joined the disposition of a lamb.  He was beloved even in the patio of the prison,
where he used to pitch the bar and wrestle with the murderers and felons, always coming off
victor.  He continued speaking Basque.  The Gypsy was incensed; and, forgetting the languages
in which, for the last hour, he had been speaking, complained to Francisco of his rudeness
in speaking any tongue but Castilian.  The Basque replied by a loud carcajada, and slightly
touched the Gypsy on the knee.  The latter sprang up like a mine discharged, seized his sword,
and, retreating a few steps, made a desperate lunge at Francisco.

"The Basques, next to the Pasiegos, are the best cudgel-players in Spain, and in the world.
Francisco held in his hand part of a broomstick, which he had broken in the stable, whence
he had just ascended.  With the swiftness of lightning he foiled the stroke of Chaleco, and,
in another moment, with a dexterous blow, struck the sword out of his hand, sending it ringing
against the wall.

"The Gypsy resumed his seat and his cigar.  He occasionally looked at the Basque.  His glances
were at first atrocious, but presently changed their expression, and appeared to me to become
prying and eagerly curious.  He at last arose, picked up his sword, sheathed it, and walked
slowly to the door, when there he stopped, turned round, advanced close to Francisco, and looked
him steadfastly in the face.  'My good fellow,' said he, 'I am a Gypsy, and can read baji.
Do you know where you will be this time to- morrow?' {154}  Then laughing like a hyena, he
departed, and I never saw him again.

"At that time on the morrow, Francisco was on his death-bed.  He had caught the jail fever,
which had long raged in the Carcel de la Corte, where I was imprisoned.  In a few days he was
buried, a mass of corruption, in the Campo Santo of Madrid."

Having attracted the event, he recorded it with a vividness well set off by his own nonchalance.
Again and again he was to repeat this triumph of depicting the wild, and the wild in a condition
of activity and often fury.

His success is all the greater because it is unexpected.  He sets out "to direct the attention
of the public towards the Gypsies; but he hopes to be able to do so without any romantic appeals
on their behalf."  He is far from having a romantic tone.  He wields, as a rule, with any amount
of dignity the massive style of the early Victorian "Quarterly Review" and Lane's so-called
"Arabian Nights."  Thus, speaking of Gypsy fortune- tellers, he says: "Their practice chiefly
lies among females, the portion of the human race most given to curiosity and credulity." 
Sentences like this always remind me of Lord Melbourne's indignation at the thought of religion
intruding on private life.  His indignation is obviously of the same period as the sentence:
"Among the Zingari are not a few who deal in precious stones, and some who vend poisons; and
the most remarkable individual whom it has been my fortune to encounter amongst the Gypsies,
whether of the Eastern or Western world, was a person who dealt in both these articles."  A
style like this resembles a paunchy man who can be relied on not to pick the daisies.  At times
Borrow writes as if he were translating, as in "The anvil rings beneath the thundering stroke,
hour succeeds hour, and still endures the hard sullen toil."  He adds a little vanity of no
value by a Biblical echo now and again, as in the clause: "And it came to pass, moreover, that
the said Fajardo . . . " or in "And the chief of that camp, even Mr. Petulengro, stood before
the encampment. . . ."

This is a style for information, instruction, edification, and intervals of sleep.  It is the
style of an age, a class, a sect, not of an individual.  Deeds and not words are what count
in it.  Only by big, wild, or extraordinary things can it be compelled to a semblance of life.
Borrow gives it such things a hundred times, and they help one another to be effective.

The picture of the Gitana of Seville hands on some of its own power to the quieter pages, and
at length, with a score of other achievements of the same solid kind, kindles well-nigh every
part of the shapeless book. I shall quote it at length:

"If there be one being in the world who, more than another, deserves the title of sorceress
(and where do you find a word of greater romance and more thrilling interest?), it is the Gypsy
female in the prime and vigour of her age and ripeness of her understanding--the Gipsy wife,
the mother of two or three children.  Mention to me a point of devilry with which that woman
is not acquainted.  She can at any time, when it suits her, show herself as expert a jockey
as her husband, and he appears to advantage in no other character, and is only eloquent when
descanting on the merits of some particular animal; but she can do much more; she is a prophetess,
though she believes not in prophecy; she is a physician, though she will not taste her own
philters; she is a procuress, though she is not to be procured; she is a singer of obscene
songs, though she will suffer no obscene hands to touch her; and though no one is more tenacious
of the little she possesses, she is a cutpurse and a shoplifter whenever opportunity shall
offer. . . . Observe, for example, the Gitana, even her of Seville.

"She is standing before the portals of a large house in one of the narrow Moorish streets of
the capital of Andalusia; through the grated iron door, she looks in upon the court; it is
paved with small marble slabs of almost snowy whiteness; in the middle is a fountain distilling
limpid water, and all around there is a profusion of macetas, in which flowering plants and
aromatic shrubs are growing, and at each corner there is an orange tree, and the perfume of
the azahar may be distinguished; you hear the melody of birds from a small aviary beneath the
piazza which surrounds the court, which is surrounded by a toldo or linen awning, for it is
the commencement of May, and the glorious sun of Andalusia is burning with a splendour too
intense for its rays to be borne with impunity.  It is a fairy scene such as nowhere meets
the eye but at Seville, or perhaps at Fez and Shiraz, in the palaces of the Sultan and the
Shah.  The Gypsy looks through the iron-grated door, and beholds, seated near the fountain,
a richly dressed dame and two lovely delicate maidens; they are busied at their morning's occupation,
intertwining with their sharp needles the gold and silk on the tambour; several female attendants
are seated behind.  The Gypsy pulls the bell, when is heard the soft cry of 'Quien es'; the
door, unlocked by means of a string, recedes upon its hinges, when in walks the Gitana, the
witch-wife of Multan, with a look such as the tiger-cat casts when she stealeth from her jungle
into the plain.

"Yes, well may you exclaim, 'Ave Maria purissima,' ye dames and maidens of Seville, as she
advances towards you; she is not of yourselves, she is not of your blood, she or her fathers
have walked to your clime from a distance of three thousand leagues.  She has come from the
far East, like the three enchanted kings to Cologne; but unlike them she and her race have
come with hate and not with love.  She comes to flatter, and to deceive, and to rob, for she
is a lying prophetess, and a she-Thug; she will greet you with blessings which will make your
heart rejoice, but your heart's blood would freeze, could you hear the curses which to herself
she murmurs against you; for she says, that in her children's veins flows the dark blood of
the 'husbands,' whilst in those of yours flows the pale tide of the 'savages,' and therefore
she would gladly set her foot on all your corses first poisoned by her hands.  For all her
love--and she can love--is for the Romas; and all her hate--and who can hate like her?--is
for the Busnees; for she says that the world would be a fair world were there no Busnees, and
if the Romamiks could heat their kettles undisturbed at the foot of the olive trees; and therefore
she would kill them all if she could and if she dared.  She never seeks the houses of the Busnees
but for the purpose of prey; for the wild animals of the sierra do not more abhor the sight
of man than she abhors the countenances of the Busnees.  She now comes to prey upon you and
to scoff at you.  Will you believe her words?  Fools! do you think that the being before ye
has any sympathy for the like of you?

"She is of the middle stature, neither strongly nor slightly built, and yet her every movement
denotes agility and vigour.  As she stands erect before you, she appears like a falcon about
to soar, and you are almost tempted to believe that the power of volation is hers; and were
you to stretch forth your hand to seize her, she would spring above the house- tops like a
bird.  Her face is oval, and her features are regular but somewhat hard and coarse, for she
was born amongst rocks in a thicket, and she has been wind-beaten and sun-scorched for many
a year, even like her parents before her; there is many a speck upon her cheek, and perhaps
a scar, but no dimples of love; and her brow is wrinkled over, though she is yet young.  Her
complexion is more than dark, for it is almost that of a Mulatto; and her hair, which hangs
in long locks on either side of her face, is black as coal, and coarse as the tail of a horse,
from which it seems to have been gathered.

"There is no female eye in Seville can support the glance of hers, so fierce and penetrating,
and yet so artful and sly, is the expression of their dark orbs; her mouth is fine and almost
delicate, and there is not a queen on the proudest throne between Madrid and Moscow who might
not, and would not, envy the white and even rows of teeth which adorn it, which seem not of
pearl but of the purest elephant's bone of Multan.  She comes not alone; a swarthy two-year
old bantling clasps her neck with one arm, its naked body half extant from the coarse blanket
which, drawn round her shoulders, is secured at her bosom by a skewer.  Though tender of age
it looks wicked and sly, like a veritable imp of Roma.  Huge rings of false gold dangle from
wide slits in the lobes of her ears; her nether garments are rags, and her feet are cased in
hempen sandals.  Such is the wandering Gitana, such is the witch-wife of Multan, who has come
to spae the fortune of the Sevillian countess and her daughters.

"'O may the blessing of Egypt light upon your head, you high-born Lady! (May an evil end overtake
your body, daughter of a Busnee harlot!) and may the same blessing await the two fair roses
of the Nile here flowering by your side!  (May evil Moors seize them and carry them across
the water!)  O listen to the words of the poor woman who is come from a distant country; she
is of a wise people, though it has pleased the God of the sky to punish them for their sins
by sending them to wander through the world.  They denied shelter to the Majari, whom you call
the queen of heaven, and to the Son of God, when they flew to the land of Egypt, before the
wrath of the wicked king; it is said that they even refused them a draught of the sweet waters
of the great river when the blessed two were athirst.  O you will say that it was a heavy crime;
and truly so it was, and heavily has the Lord punished the Egyptians.  He has sent us a-wandering,
poor as you see, with scarcely a blanket to cover us.  O blessed lady (accursed be thy dead
as many as thou mayest have), we have no money to purchase us bread; we have only our wisdom
with which to support ourselves and our poor hungry babes; when God took away their silks from
the Egyptians, and their gold from the Egyptians, he left them their wisdom as a resource that
they might not starve.  O who can read the stars like the Egyptians? and who can read the lines
of the palm like the Egyptians?  The poor woman read in the stars that there was a rich ventura
for all of this goodly house, so she followed the bidding of the stars and came to declare
it.  O blessed lady (I defile thy dead corse), your husband is at Granada, fighting with King
Ferdinand against the wild Corahai!  (May an evil ball smite him and split his head!)  Within
three months he shall return with twenty captive Moors, round the neck of each a chain of gold.
(God grant that when he enter the house a beam may fall upon him and crush him!)  And within
nine months after his return God shall bless you with a fair chabo, the pledge for which you
have sighed so long!  (Accursed be the salt placed in its mouth in the church when it is baptized!)
Your palm, blessed lady, your palm, and the palms of all I see here, that I may tell you all
the rich ventura which is hanging over this good house; (May evil lightning fall upon it and
consume it!) but first let me sing you a song of Egypt, that the spirit of the Chowahanee may
descend more plenteously upon the poor woman.'

"Her demeanour now instantly undergoes a change.  Hitherto she has been pouring forth a lying
and wild harangue, without much flurry or agitation of manner.  Her speech, it is true, has
been rapid, but her voice has never been raised to a very high key; but she now stamps on the
ground, and placing her hands on her hips, she moves quickly to the right and left, advancing
and retreating in a sidelong direction.  Her glances become more fierce and fiery, and her
coarse hair stands erect on her head, stiff as the prickles of the hedgehog; and now she commences
clapping her hands, and uttering words of an unknown tongue, to a strange and uncouth tune.
The tawny bantling seems inspired with the same fiend, and, foaming at the mouth, utters wild
sounds, in imitation of its dam. Still more rapid become the sidelong movements of the Gitana.
Movements! she springs, she bounds, and at every bound she is a yard above the ground.  She
no longer bears the child in her bosom; she plucks it from thence, and fiercely brandishes
it aloft, till at last, with a yell, she tosses it high into the air, like a ball, and then,
with neck and head thrown back, receives it, as it falls, on her hands and breast, extracting
a cry from the terrified beholders.  Is it possible she can be singing?  Yes, in the wildest
style of her people; and here is a snatch of the song, in the language of Roma, which she occasionally
screams:

   "En los sastos de yesque plai me diquelo,
   Doscusanas de sonacai terelo,--
   Corojai diquelo abillar,
   Y ne asislo chapescar, chapescar."

   "On the top of a mountain I stand,
   With a crown of red gold in my hand,--
   Wild Moors come trooping o'er the lea,
   O how from their fury shall I flee, flee, flee?
   O how from their fury shall I flee?

Such was the Gitana in the days of Ferdinand and Isabella, and much the same is she now in
the days of Isabel and Christina. . . ."

Here, it is true, there is a substantial richly-coloured and strange subject matter, such as
could hardly be set down in any way or by anyone without attracting the attention.  Borrow
makes it do more than this.  The word "extant" may offend a little, but the writer can afford
many such blemishes, for he has life in his pen.  He is, as it were himself substantial, richly-coloured,
strange and with big strokes and splashes he suggests the thing itself.  There have been writers
since Borrow's day who have thought to use words so subtly that they are equivalent to things,
but in the end their words remain nothing but words.  Borrow uses language like a man, and
we forget his words on account of the vividness of the things which they do not so much create
as evoke.  I do not mean that it can be called unconscious art, for it is naively conscious
and delighting in itself.  The language is that of an orator, a man standing up and addressing
a mass in large and emphatic terms.  He succeeds not only in evoking things that are very much
alive, but in suggesting an artist that is their equal, instead of one, who like so many more
refined writers, is a more or less pathetic admirer of living things.  In this he resembles
Byron.  It may not be the highest form of art, but it is the most immediate and disturbing
and genial in its effect.  Finally, the whole book has body.  It can be browsed on.  It does
not ask a particular mood, being itself the result of no one mood, but of a great part of one
man's life.  Turn over half a dozen pages and a story, or a picture, or a bit of costume, or
of superstition, will invariably be the reward.  It reads already like a book rather older
than it really is, but not because it has faded.  There was nothing in it to fade, being too
hard, massive and unvarnished.  It remains alive, capable of surviving the Gypsies except in
so far as they live within it and its fellow books.

CHAPTER XX--"THE BIBLE IN SPAIN"

In "The Zincali" Borrow used some of his private notes and others supplied by Spanish friends,
together with parts of letters to the Bible Society.  It used to be supposed that "The Bible
in Spain" was made up almost entirely from these letters.  But this has now been disproved
by the newly published "Letters of George Borrow to the Bible Society." {163a}  These letters
are about half the length of "The Bible in Spain," and yet only about a third part of them
was used by Borrow in writing that book.  Some of his letters were never received by the Society
and had probably been lost on the way.  But this was more of a disaster to the Society than
to Borrow.  He kept journals {163b} from which his letters were probably copied or composed;
and he was able, for example, in July, 1836, to send the Society a detailed and dated account
of his entry into Spain in January, and his intercourse with the Gypsies of Badajoz.  It is
also possible that the letters lent to him by the Society were far more numerous than those
returned by him.  He missed little that could have been turned to account, unless it was the
suggestion that if he knew the country his safest way from Seville to Madrid was to go afoot
in the dress of beggar or Gypsy, and the remark that in Tangier one of his principal associates
was a black slave, whose country was only three days journey from Timbuctoo. {163c}  He had
already in 1835 planned to write "a small volume" on what he was about to see and hear in Spain,
and it must have been from notes or full journals kept with this view that he drew for "The
Zincali" and still more for "The Bible in Spain."  He wrote his journals and letters very much
as Cobbett his "Rural Rides," straight after days in the saddle.  Except when he was presenting
a matter of pure business he was not much troubled by the fact that he was addressing his employers,
the Bible Society.  He did not always begin "Bible" with a capital B, an error corrected by
Mr. Darlow, his editor.  He did not, however, scorn to make a favourable misrepresentation
of his success, as for example in the interview with Mendizabal, which was reduced probably
to the level of the facts in its book form.  The Society were not always pleased with his frankness
and confidence, and the Secretary complained of things which were inconvenient to be read aloud
in a pious assembly, less concerned with sinners than with repentance, and not easily convinced
by the improbable.  He sent them, for example, after a specimen Gypsy translation of the Gospel
of St. Luke and of the Lord's Prayer, "sixteen specimens of the horrid curses in use amongst
the Spanish Gypsies," with translations into English.  These do not re-appear either in "The
Bible in Spain" or in the edition of Borrow's letters to the Society.  He spared them, apparently,
the story of Benedict Moll and many another good thing that was meant for mankind.

I should be inclined to think that a very great part of "The Bible in Spain" was written as
the letters were, on the spot.  Either it was not sent to the Society for fear of loss, or
if copied and sent to them, it was lost on the way or never returned by Borrow after he had
used it in writing the book, for the letters are just as careful in most parts as the book,
and the book is just as fresh as the letters.  When he wrote to the Society, he said that he
told the schoolmaster "the Almighty would never have inspired His saints with a desire to write
what was unintelligible to the great mass of mankind"; in "The Bible in Spain" he said: "It
[i.e., the Bible] would never have been written if not calculated by itself to illume the minds
of all classes of mankind." Continuous letters or journals would be more likely to suit Borrow's
purpose than notes such as he took in his second tour to Wales and never used.  Notes made
on the spot are very likely to be disproportionate, to lay undue stress on something that should
be allowed to recede, and would do so if left to memory; and once made they are liable to misinterpretation
if used after intervals of any length.  But the flow and continuity of letters insist on some
proportion and on truth at least to the impression of the day, and a balance is ensured between
the scene or the experience on the one hand and the observer on the other.

"The Zincali" was not published before Borrow realised what a treasure he had deposited with
the Bible Society, and not long afterwards he obtained the loan of his letters to make a new
book on his travels in Spain. Borrow's own account, in his preface to the second edition of
"The Zincali," is that the success of that book, and "the voice not only of England but of
the greater part of Europe" proclaiming it, astonished him in his "humble retreat" at Oulton.
He was, he implies, inclined to be too much elated.  And so, he says, he began work in the
winter, but slowly, and on through summer and autumn and another winter, and into another spring
and summer, loitering and being completely idle at times, until at last he went to his summer
house daily and finished the book.  But as a matter of fact "The Zincali" had no great success
in either public or literary esteem, and Ford's criticism was passed on the manuscript, not
the printed book.

Borrow and his wife took about six months to prepare the letters for publication as a book.
He took great pains with the writing and only worked when he was in the mood.  His health was
not quite good, as he implies in the preface to "The Zincali," and he tried "the water system"
and also "lessons in singing," to cure his indigestion and sleeplessness. He had the advantage
of Ford's advice, to avoid fine writing, mere description, poetry and learned books, and to
give plenty of "racy, real, genuine scenes, and the more out of the way the better," stories
of adventure, extraordinary things, prisons, low life, Gypsies, and so on. He was now drawing
entirely from "his own well," and when the book was out Ford took care to remark that the author
had cast aside the learned books which he had used as swimming corks in the "Zincali," and
now "leaped boldly into the tide" unaided.  John Murray's reader sent back the manuscript to
be revised and augmented, and after this was done, "The Bible in Spain" was published, at the
end of 1842, when Borrow was thirty- nine.

"The Bible in Spain" was praised and moreover purchased by everyone.  It was translated into
French, American, Russian, and printed in America. The "Athenaeum" found it a "genuine book";
the "Examiner" said that "apart from its adventurous interest, its literary merit is extraordinary."
Ford compared it with an old Spanish ballad, "going from incident to incident, bang, bang,
bang!" and with Gil Blas, and with Bunyan.  Ford, it must be remembered, had ridden over the
same tracks as Borrow in Spain, but before him, and had written his own book with a combination
of learning and gusto that is one of the rarest of literary virtues.  Like Borrow he wrote
fresh from the thing itself when possible, asserting for example that the fat of the hams of
Montanches, when boiled, "looked like melted topazes, and the flavour defies language, although
we have dined on one this very day, in order to secure accuracy and undeniable prose."  For
the benefit of the public Ford pointed out that "the Bible and its distribution have been the
business of his existence; whenever moral darkness brooded, there, the Bible in his hand, he
forced his way."

When Borrow was actually in Spain he was much influenced by the conditions of the moment. 
The sun of Spain would shine so that he prized it above English civilization.  The anarchy
and wildness of Spain at another time would make him hate both men and land.  When he entered
it, by crossing a brook, out of Portugal, he shouted the Spanish battle-cry in ecstasy, and
in the end he described his five years in Spain as, "if not the most eventful"--he cannot refrain
from that vainglorious dark hint--yet "the most happy years" of his existence.  His book is
a song of wild Spain when Spain was Spain.

Borrow, as we already know, had in him many of the powers that go to make a great book, yet
"The Zincali" was not a great book.  The important power developed or employed later which
made "The Bible in Spain" a great book was the power of narrative.  The writing of those letters
from Spain to the Bible Society had taught him or discovered in him the instinct for proportion
and connection which is the simplest, most inexplicable and most essential of literary gifts.
With the help of this he could write narrative that should suggest and represent the continuity
of life.  He could pause for description or dialogue or reflection without interrupting this
stream of life.  Nothing need be, and nothing was, alien to the narrator with this gift; for
his writing would now assimilate everything and enrich itself continually.

The reader could follow, as he preferred, the Bible distribution in particular, or the Gypsies,
or Borrow himself, through the long ways and dense forests of the book, and through the moral
darkness of Spain.  It could be treated as a pious book, and as such it was attacked by Catholics,
as "Lavengro" still is.  For certainly Borrow made no secret of his piety.  When a Spanish
schoolmaster suggested that the Testament was unintelligible without notes, Borrow informed
him that on the contrary the notes were far more difficult, and "it would never have been written
if not calculated of itself to illume the minds of all classes of mankind."  The Bible was,
in his published words, "the well-head of all that is useful and conducive to the happiness
of society"; and he told the poor Catalans that their souls' welfare depended on their being
acquainted with the book he was selling at half the cost price.  And he said to the face of
the Spanish Prime Minister: "It is a pleasant thing to be persecuted for the Gospel's sake."
Nor was this pure cant; for he meant at least this, that he loved conflict and would be fearless
and stubborn in battle; and, as he puts it, he was "cast into prison for the Gospel's sake."

In 1843, no doubt, what first recommended this book to so many thousands was the Protestant
fervour and purpose of the book, and the romantic reputation of Spain.  At this day Borrow's
Bible distribution is mainly of antiquarian and sectarian interest.  We should not estimate
the darkness of Madrid by the number of Testaments there in circulation and daily use, nor
on the other hand should we fear, like Borrow, to bring them into contempt by making them too
common.  Yet his missionary work makes the necessary backbone of the book.  He was, as he justly
said, "no tourist, no writer of books of travels."  His work brought him adventure as no mere
wandering could have done.  What is more, the man's methods are still entertaining to those
who care nothing about the distribution itself.  Where he found the remains of a robber's camp
he left a New Testament and some tracts.  To carry the Bibles over the flinty hills of Galicia
and the Asturias he bought "a black Andalusian stallion of great power and strength, . . .
unbroke, savage and furious": the cargo, he says, would tame the animal.  He fixed his advertisement
on the church porch at Pitiegua, announcing the sale of Testaments at Salamanca.  He had the
courage without the ferocity of enthusiasm, and in the cause of the Bible Society he saw and
did things which little concerned it, which in fact displeased it, but keep this book alive
with a great stir and shout of life, with a hundred pages where we are shown what the poet
meant by "forms more real than living men."  We are shown the unrighteous to the very life.
What matters it then if the author professes the opinion that "the friendship of the unrighteous
is never of long duration"?  Nevertheless, these pious ejaculations are not without their value
in the composition of the author's amazing character.

Borrow came near to being a perfect traveller.  For he was, on the one hand, a man whose individuality
was carved in clear bold lines, who had a manner and a set of opinions as remarkable as his
appearance.  Thus he was bound to come into conflict with men wherever he went: he would bring
out their manners and opinions, if they had any.  But on the other hand he had abounding curiosity.
He was bold but not rude: on the contrary he was most vigilantly polite.  He took snuff, though
he detested it; he avoided politics as much as possible: "No, no!" he said, "I have lived too
long with Romany chals and Petulengres to be of any politics save Gypsy politics," in spite
of what he had said in '32 and was to say again in '57.  When he and the Gypsy Antonio came
to Jaraicejo they separated by Antonio's advice.  The Gypsy got through the town unchallenged
by the guard, though not unnoticed by the townspeople.  But Borrow was stopped and asked by
a man of the National Guard whether he came with the Gypsy, to which he answered, "Do I look
a person likely to keep company with Gypsies?" though, says he, he probably did.

He won the hearts of the people of Villa Seca by the "formality" of his behaviour and language;
for he tells us that in such remote places might still be found the gravity of deportment and
the grandiose expressions which are scoffed at as exaggerations in the romances.  He speaks
of himself in one place as strolling about a town or neighbourhood, entering into conversation
with several people whom he met, shopkeepers, professional men, and others.  Near Evora he
sat down daily at a fountain and talked with everyone who came to it.  He visited the College
of the English Catholics at Lisbon, excusing himself, indeed, by saying that his favourite
or his only study was man.  His knowledge of languages and his un-English appearance made it
easier for him to become familiar with many kinds of men.  He introduced himself among some
Jews of Lisbon, and pronounced a blessing: they took him for a powerful rabbi, and he favoured
their mistake so that in a few days he knew all that related to these people and their traffic.
When at this same cabin he found there was no bed, he went up into the loft and lay down on
the boards' without complaint.  So in the prison at Madrid he got on so well with the prisoners
that on the third day he spoke their language as if he were "a son of the prison."  At Gibraltar
he talked to the man of Mogador in Arabic and was taken for "a holy man from the kingdoms of
the East," especially when he produced the shekel which had been given him by Hasfeldt: a Jew
there believed him to be a Salamancan Jew.  At Villafranca a woman mistook his voice in the
dark for that of "the German clockmaker from Pontevedra."  For some time in 1839 he went among
the villages dressed in a peasant's leather helmet, jacket and trousers, and resembling "a
person between sixty and seventy years of age," so that people addressed him as Uncle, and
bought his Testaments, though the Bible Society, on hearing it, "began to inquire whether,
if the old man were laid up in prison, they could very conveniently apply for his release in
the proper quarter." {173}

He saw men and places, and with his pen he created a land as distinct, as wild, as vast, and
as wonderful as the Spain of Cervantes.  He did this with no conscious preconceived design.
His creation was the effect of a multitude of impressions, all contributory because all genuine
and true to the depth of Borrow's own nature.  He had seen and felt Spain, and "The Bible in
Spain" shows how; nor probably could he have shown it in any other way.  Not but what he could
speak of Spain as the land of old renown, and of himself--in a letter to the Bible Society
in 1837--as an errant knight, and of his servant Francisco as his squire.  He did not see himself
as he was, or he would have seen both Don Quixote and Sancho Panza in one, now riding a black
Andalusian stallion, now driving an ass before him.

Only a power as great as Borrow's own could show how this wild Spain was built up.  For it
was not done by this and that, but by a great man and a noble country in a state of accord
continually vibrating.

He spends little time on such declamatory description, but it is essential to the whole effect.
This particular piece is followed by the difficulty of a long ascent, by a sleep of exhaustion
on a rude and dirty bed, by Borrow's arrest as the Pretender, Don Carlos, in disguise, by an
escape from immediate execution into the hands of an Alcalde who read "Jeremy Bentham" day
and night; all this in one short chapter.

At Oropesa he heard from the barber-surgeon of the mysterious Guadarrama mountains, and of
the valley that lay undiscovered and unknown for thousands of years until a hunter found there
a tribe of people speaking a language unknown to anyone else and ignorant of the rest of men.
Rough wild ways intersect the book.  Thunder storms overhang it.  Immense caverns echo beneath
it.  They passed a defile where the carrier had been attacked on his last journey by robbers,
who burnt the coach by means of the letters in it, and butchered all except the carrier, who
had formerly been the master of one of the gang: as they passed, the ground was still saturated
with the blood of one of the murdered soldiers and a dog was gnawing a piece of his skull.
Borrow was told of an old viper catcher caught by the robbers, who plundered and stripped him
and then tied his hands behind him and thrust his head into his sack, "which contained several
of these horrible reptiles alive," and so he ran mad through the villages until he fell dead.
As a background, he had again and again a scene like that one, whose wild waters and mountains,
and the "Convent of the Precipices" standing out against the summit, reminded him at once of
Salvator Rosa and of Stolberg's lines to a mountain torrent: "The pine trees are shaken. .
. ."  Describing the cave at Gibraltar, he spoke of it as always having been "a den for foul
night birds, reptiles, and beasts of prey," of precipice after precipice, abyss after abyss,
in apparently endless succession, and of an explorer who perished there and lay "even now rotting
in the bowels of the mountain, preyed upon by its blind and noisome worms."

When he saw a peaceful rich landscape in a bright sunny hour, as at Monte Moro, he shed tears
of rapture, sitting on and on in those reveries which, as he well knew, only enervate the mind:
or he felt that he would have desired "no better fate than that of a shepherd on the prairies
or a hunter on the hills of Bembibre": or looking through an iron-grated door at a garden court
in Seville he sighed that his fate did not permit him to reside in such an Eden for the remainder
of his days.

If a scene was not in fact superlative his creative memory would furnish it with what it lacked,
giving the cathedral of Palencia, for example, windows painted by Murillo.

CHAPTER XXI--"THE BIBLE IN SPAIN": THE CHARACTERS

In such scenes, naturally, Borrow placed nothing common and nothing mean. He must have a madman
among the ruins, or by a pool a peasant woman sitting, who has been mad ever since her child
was drowned there, or a mule and a stallion fighting with hoofs and teeth.  If he painted an
archbishop plainly dressed in black cassock and silken cap, stooping, feeble, pale and emaciated,
he set upon his finger a superb amethyst of a dazzling lustre--Borrow never saw a finer, except
one belonging to an acquaintance of his own, a Tartar Khan.

The day after his interview with the archbishop he had a visit from Benedict Mol.  This man
is proved to have existed by a letter from Rey Romero to Borrow mentioning "The German of the
Treasure." {181}  "True, every word of it!" says Knapp: "Remember our artist never created;
he painted from models."  Because he existed, therefore every word of Borrow's concerning him
is true.

Benedict Mol had the faculty of re-appearance.  In the next year at Compostella the moonlight
fell on his grey locks and weatherbeaten face and Borrow recognised him.  "Och," said the man,
"mein Gott, es ist der Herr!" (it is that gentleman).  "Och, what good fortune, that the Herr
is the first person I meet in Compostella."  Even Borrow could scarcely believe his eyes. 
Benedict had come to dig for the treasure, and in the meantime proposed to live at the best
hotel and pay his score when the digging was done.  Borrow gave him a dollar, which he paid
to a witch for telling him where exactly the treasure lay.  A third time, to his own satisfaction
and Borrow's astonishment, he re-appeared at Oviedo. He had, in fact, followed Borrow to Corunna,
having been despitefully used at Compostella, met highwaymen on the road, and suffered hunger
so that he slaughtered a stray kid and devoured it raw.  From Oviedo he trod in Borrow's footsteps,
which was "a great comfort in his horrible journeys."  "A strange life has he led," said Borrow's
Greek servant, "and a strange death he will die--it is written on his countenance."

But now he had met people who supported him with an eye to the treasure. Borrow tried to persuade
him to circulate the Gospel instead of risking failure and the anger of his clients.  Luckily
Benedict went on to Compostella:

"He went, and I never saw him more.  What I heard, however, was extraordinary enough.

Knapp, by the way, prints this very letter from Rey Romero.  It was his son who saw Benedict
in prison, and he simply says that he does not know what has become of him.

As Dr. Knapp says, Borrow painted from a model.  That is to say, he did like everybody else.
Of course he did not invent.  Why should a man with such a life invent for the purpose of only
five books?  But there is no such thing as invention (in the popular sense), except in the
making of bad nonsense rhymes or novels.  A writer composes out of his experience, inward,
outward and histrionic, or along the protracted lines of his experience.  Borrow felt that
adventures and unusual scenes were his due, and when they were not forthcoming he revived an
old one or revised the present in the weird light of the past.  Is this invention?

Pictures like that of Benedict Mol are not made out of nothing by Borrow or anybody else. 
Nor are they copies.  The man who could merely copy nature would never have the eyes to see
such beauties as Benedict Mol.  It must be noticed how effective is the re-appearance, the
intermingling of such a man with "ordinary life," and then finally the suggestion of one of
Borrow's enemies that he was put up to it by Don Jorge--"That fellow is at the bottom of half
the picardias which happen in Spain."  What glory for Don Jorge.  The story would have been
entertaining enough as a mere isolated short story: thus scattered, it is twice as effective
as if it were a mere fiction, whether labelled "a true story" or introduced by an ingenious
variation of the same.  It is one of Borrow's triumphs never to let us escape from the spell
of actuality into a languid acquiescence in what is "only pretending."  The form never becomes
a fiction, even to the same extent as that of Turgenev's "Sportsman's Sketches"; for Borrow
is always faithful to the form of a book of travel in Spain during the 'thirties.  In "Don
Quixote" and "Gil Blas," the lesser narratives are as a rule introduced without much attempt
at probability, but as mere diversions.  They are never such in "The Bible in Spain," though
they are in "Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye."  The book never ceases to be a book of travel
by an agent of the Bible Society.  It is to its very great advantage that it was not written
all of a piece with one conscious aim. The roughness, the merely accurate irrelevant detail
here and there, the mention of his journal, and the references to well-known and substantial
people, win from us an openness and simplicity of reception which ensure a success for it beyond
that of most fictions.  I do not feel bound to believe that he had met the Italian of Corunna
twenty years before at Norwich, though to a man with his memory for faces such re-appearances
are likely to happen many times as often as to an ordinary man.  He continues: "It was in a
steamer in the Baltic in the year '34, if I mistake not."  That he had this strong memory is
certain; but that he knew it, and was proud of it, and likely to exaggerate it, is almost equally
certain.

It was natural that such a knight should have squires of high degree, as Francisco the Basque
and the two Antonios, Gypsy and Greek.

The morning after Francisco died, when Borrow was lying in bed ruminating on his loss, he heard
someone cleaning boots and singing in an unknown tongue, so he rang the bell.  Antonio appeared.
He had, he said, engaged himself to the Prime Minister at a high salary, but on hearing of
Borrow's loss, he "told the Duke, though it was late at night, that he would not suit me; and
here I am."  Again he left Borrow.  When he returned it was in obedience to a dream, in which
he saw his master ride on a black horse up to his inn--yet this was immediately after Borrow's
landing on his third visit to Spain, of which "only two individuals in Madrid were aware."
This Greek was acquainted with all the cutthroats in Galicia; he could tell a story like Sterne,
and in every way was a servant who deserved no less a master than Monsieur Georges.

Francisco has already sufficiently adorned these pages.  As for the other Antonio, the Gypsy,
he guided Borrow through the worst of Spain on his way to Madrid.  This he offered to do in
such terms that Borrow's hint at the possible danger of accepting it falls flat. He carried
a loadstone in his bosom and swallowed some of the dust of it, and it served both for passport
and for prayers.  When he had to leave Borrow he sold him a savage and vicious she ass, recommending
her for the same reason as he bought her, because "a savage and vicious beast has generally
four excellent legs."

CHAPTER XXII--"THE BIBLE IN SPAIN": STYLE

Borrow's Spanish portrait of himself was worthy of its background.  Much was required of him
in a world where a high fantastical acrobatic mountebankery was almost a matter of ceremony,
where riders stand on their heads in passing their rivals and cooks punt a casserole over their
heads to the wall behind by way of giving notice: much was required of him and he proved worthy.
He saw himself, I suppose, as a great imaginative master of fiction sees a hero.  His attitude
cannot be called vanity: it is too consistent and continuous and its effect by far too powerful.
He puts his own name into the speeches of other men in a manner that is very rare: he does
not start at the sound of Don Jorge. He said to the silent archbishop: "I suppose your lordship
knows who I am? . . .  It is dangerous to be in your way."

It is said that he used to ride his black Andalusian horse in Madrid with a Russian skin for
a saddle and without stirrups.  He had, he says, been accustomed from childhood to ride without
a saddle.  Yet Borrow could do without a horse.  He never fails to make himself impressive.
He stoops to his knee to scare a huge and ferocious dog by looking him full in the eyes.  The
spies, as he sat waiting for the magistrate at Madrid, whisper, "He understands the seven Gypsy
jargons," or "He can ride a horse and dart a knife full as well as if he came from my own country."

The American at Tangier is perplexed by his speaking both Moorish and Gaelic, by hearing from
an Irish woman that he is "a fairy man."

He does not confine himself to the mysterious sublime.  He tells us, for example, that Mendizabal,
the Prime Minister, was a huge athletic man, "somewhat taller than myself, who measure six-feet-two
without my shoes." Several times he was mistaken for a Jew, and once for a Rabbi, by the Jews
themselves.

{picture: Mendizabal, The Spanish Minister: page194.jpg}

In the wilds he grew a beard--he had one at Jaraicejo--and it is perhaps worth noticing this,
to rebut the opinion that he could not grow a beard, and that he was therefore as other men
are with the same disability.  He speaks more than once of his shedding tears, and at Lisbon
he kissed the stone above Fielding's grave.  But these are little things of little importance
in the landscape portrait which emerges from the whole of the book, of the grave adventurer,
all but always equal in his boldness and his discretion, the lord of those wild ways and wild
men, who "rides in the whirlwind and directs the storm" all over Spain.

In brief, he is the very hero that a wondering and waiting audience would be satisfied to see
appearing upon such a stage.  Except Dante on his background of Heaven and Hell, and Byron
on his background of Europe and Time, no writer had in one book placed himself with greater
distinction before the world.  His glory was threefold.  He was the man who was a Gypsy in
politics, because he had lived with Gypsies so long.  He was the man of whom it was said by
an enemy, after the affair of Benedict Mol, that Don Jorge was at the bottom of half the knavish
farces in Spain.

Very little of Borrow's effectiveness can seriously be attributed to this or that quality of
style, for it will all amount to saying that he had an effective style.  But it may be permissible
to point out that it is also a style that is unnoticeable except for what it effects.  It runs
at times to rotten Victorianism, both heavy and vague, as when he calls El Greco or Domenico
"a most extraordinary genius, some of whose productions possess merit of a very high order."
He is capable of calling the eye the "orb of vision," and the moon "the beauteous luminary."

Description, taking him away from men and from his active self, often lured him into this kind
of thing.  And, nevertheless, such is Borrow that I should by no means employ a gentleman of
refinement to go over "The Bible in Spain" and cross out the like.  It all helps in the total
of half theatrical and wholly wild exuberance and robustness.  Another minute contributory
element of style is the Biblical phrasing.  His home and certainly his work for the Society
had made him familiar with the Bible.  He quotes it several times in passages which bring him
into comparison, if not equality, with Jesus and with Paul.  He is fond of "even," saying,
for example, or making Judah Lib say, "He bent his way unto the East, even to Jerusalem." 
The "beauteous luminary" vein and the Biblical vein may be said to be inseparable from the
long cloak, the sombrero, the picturesque romance and mystery of Spain, as they appeared to
one for whom romance and mystery alike were never without pomp.  But with all his rant he is
invariably substantial, never aerial, and he chequers it in a Byronic manner with a sudden
prose reference to bugs, or a question, or a piece of dialogue.

His dialogue can hardly be over-praised.  It is life-like in its effect, though not in its
actual phrases, and it breaks up the narrative and description over and over again at the right
time.  What he puts into the mouth of shepherds with whom he sits round the fire is more than
twice as potent as if it were in his own narrative; he varies the point of view, and yet always
without allowing himself to disappear from the scene--he, the senor traveller.  These spoken
words are, it is true, in Borrow's own style, with little or no colloquialism, but they are
simpler.  They also, in their turn, are broken up by words or phrases from the language of
the speaker.  The effect of this must vary with the reader.  The learned will not pause, some
of the unlearned will be impatient.  But as a glossary was afterwards granted at Ford's suggestion,
and is now to be had in the cheapest editions of "The Bible in Spain," these few hundred Spanish
or Gypsy words are at least no serious stumbling block.  I find them a very distinct additional
flavour in the style.  A good writer can afford these mysteries.  Children do not boggle at
the unpronounceable names of a good book like "The Arabian Nights," but rather use them as
charms, like Izaak Walton's marrow of the thighbone of a heron or a piece of mummy.  I--'"

Borrow breaks up his own style in the same way with foreign words.  As Ford said in his "Edinburgh
Review" criticism:

"To use a Gypsy term for a linguist, 'he knows the seven jargons'; his conversations and his
writings resemble an intricate mosiac, of which we see the rich effect, without comprehending
the design. . . . Mr. Borrow, in whose mouth are the tongues of Babel, selects, as he dashes
along currente calamo, the exact word for any idiom which best expresses the precise idea which
sparkles in his mind."

This habit of Borrow's should be compared with Lamb's archaisms, but, better still, with Robert
Burton's interlardation of English and Latin in "The Anatomy of Melancholy."

Here again what I may call his spotted dog style is only a part of the whole, and as the whole
is effective, we solemnly conclude that this is due in part to the spotted dog.  My last word
is that here, as always in a good writer, the whole is greater than the mere sum of the parts,
just as with a bad writer the part is always greater than the whole.  Or a truer way of saying
this is that many elements elude discovery, and therefore the whole exceeds the discoverable
parts.  Nor is this the whole truth, for the mixing is much if not all, and neither Borrow
nor any critic knows anything about the mixing, save that the drink is good that comes of it.

CHAPTER XXIII--BETWEEN THE ACTS

Six three-volume editions of "The Bible in Spain" were issued within the first twelve months:
ten thousand copies of a cheap edition were sold in four months.  In America it was sold rapidly
without benefit to Borrow. It was translated into German in 1844 and French in 1845.  Borrow
came up to town and did not refuse to meet princes, bishops, ambassadors, and members of Parliament.
He was pleased and flattered by the sales and the reviews, and declared that he had known it
would succeed.  He did not quite know what to say to an invitation from the Royal Institution,
but as to the Royal Academy, it would "just suit him," because he was a safe man, he said,
fitted by nature for an Academician.  He did not think much of episcopal food, wine, or cigars.
He was careful of his hero and disliked hearing him abused or treated indifferently.  If he
had many letters, he answered but few.  He had made nothing yet out of literature because the
getting about to receive homage, etc., had been so expensive: he did not care, for he hated
to speak of money matters, yet he could not but mention the fact.  When the money began to
arrive he did not resent it by any means, as he was to buy a blood horse with it--no less.
His letters have a jolly, bullying, but offhand and jerky tone, and they are very short.  He
gives Murray advice on publishing and is willing to advise the Government how to manage the
Irish--"the blackguards."

He was now, by virtue of his wife, a "landed proprietor," and filled the part with unction,
though but little satisfaction.  For he was not a magistrate, and he had to get up in the middle
of the night to look after "poachers and thieves," as he says in giving a reason for an illness.
In the summer-house at Oulton hung his father's coat and sword, but it is to be noticed that
to the end of his life an old friend held it "doubtful whether his father commenced his military
career with a commission." Borrow probably realised the importance of belonging to the ruling
classes and having a long steady pedigree.  "If report be true," says the same friend, {201}
"his mother was of French origin, and in early life an actress."  The foreignness as an asset
overcame his objection to the French, and "an actress" also sounded unconventional.  The friend
continues: "But the subject of his family was one on which Borrow never touched.  He would
allude to Borrowdale as the country whence they came, and then would make mysterious allusions
to his father's pugilistic triumphs.  But this is certain, that he has not left a single relation
behind him."  Yet he had many relatives in Cornwall and did not scorn to visit their houses.
He would only talk of his works to intimate friends, and "when he went into company it was
as a gentleman, not because he was an author."

Lady Eastlake, in March, 1844, calls him "a fine man, but a most disagreeable one; a kind of
character that would be most dangerous in rebellious times--one that would suffer or persecute
to the utmost.  His face is expressive of wrong-headed determination."

A little earlier than this, in October, 1843, Caroline Fox saw him "sitting on one side of
the fire and his old mother on the other."  It was known to her that "his spirits always sink
in wet weather, and to-day was very rainy, but he was courteous and not displeased to be a
little lionised, for his delicacy is not of the most susceptible."  He was "a tall, ungainly,
uncouth man," in her opinion, "with great physical strength, a quick penetrating eye, a confident
manner, and a disagreeable tone and pronunciation."  In no place does he make anyone praise
his voice, and, as he said, it reminded one Spanish woman of a German clockmaker's.

But Borrow was not happy or at ease.  He took a riding tour in the east of England; he walked,
rowed and fished; but that was not enough.  He was restless, and yet did not get away.  Evidently
he did not conceal the fact that he thought of travelling again.  He had talked about Africa
and China: he was now talking about Constantinople and Africa.  He was often miserable, though
he had, so far as he knew, "no particular disorder."  If at such times he was away from Oulton,
he thought of his home as his only refuge in this world; if he was at home he thought of travel
or foreign employment.  His disease was, perhaps, now middle age, and too good a memory in
his blood and in his bones.  Whatever it was it was apparently not curable by his kind of Christianity,
nor by a visit from the genial Ford, and a present of caviare and pheasant; nor by the never-out-of-date
reminder from friends that he was very well off, etc.  If he had been caught by Dissenters,
as he should have been, he might by this time have had salvation, and an occupation for life,
in founding a new truculent sect of Borrovians.  As the Rev. the Romany Rye he might have blazed
in an entertaining and becoming manner.  This and the other fact that "he eats his own bread,
and is one of the very few men in England who are independent in every sense of the word,"
were afterwards to be made subjects for public rejoicing in the Appendix to "The Romany Rye."

But in his discontent at the age of forty it cannot have been entirely satisfactory, however
flattering, to hear Ford, in the "Edinburgh," saying:

"We wish he would, on some leisure day, draw up the curtain of his own eventful biography.
We collected from his former work that he was not always what he now is.  The pursuits and
society of his youth scarcely could be denominated, in Troloppian euphemism, la creme de la
creme; but they stood him in good stead; then and there was he trained for the encounter of
Spain . . . whilst sowing his wild oats, he became passionately fond of horseflesh. . . .

"How much has Mr. Borrow yet to remember, yet to tell! let him not delay. His has been a life,
one day of which is more crowded than is the fourscore-year vegetation of a squire or alderman.
. . . Everything seems sealed on a memory, wax to receive and marble to retain.  He is not
subjective.  He has the new fault of not talking about self.  We vainly want to know what sort
of person must be the pilgrim in whose wanderings we have been interested.  That he has left
to other pens. . . ."

Then Ford went on to identify Borrow with the mysterious Unknown of Colonel Napier's newly-published
book.

He began to write his autobiography to fulfil the expectations of Ford and his own public.
It was not until 1844, exactly four years after his return from Spain, that he set out again
on foreign travel.  He made stops at Paris, Vienna, Constantinople, Venice, and Rome, but spent
most of his time in Hungary and Roumania, visiting the Gypsies and compiling a "vocabulary
of the Gypsy language as spoken in Hungary and Transylvania," which still exists in manuscript.
He was seven months away altogether.

Knapp possessed documents proving that Borrow was at this and that place, and the Gypsy vocabulary
is in the British Museum, but little other record of these seven months remains.  Knapp, indeed,
takes it for granted that the historical conversation between Borrow and the Magyar in "The
Romany Rye" was drawn from his experiences in Hungary and Transylvania in the year 1844; but
that is absurd, as the chapter might have been written by a man born and bred in the reading
room of the British Museum who had never met any but similar unfortunates.  It is very likely
that the journey was a failure, and if it had been a success, an account of it would have interrupted
the progress of the autobiography, as Ford expected it to do.  But the thing was too deliberate
to succeed.  Borrow's right instinct was to get work which would take him abroad; he failed,
and so he travelled because travel offered him relief from his melancholy and unrest.  Whether
or no he "satisfied his roving demon for a time," as Mr. Walling puts it, is unknown.  What
is known is that he did not make this journey a subject of mystery or boasting, and that he
stayed in England thereafter.  He had tasted comfort and celebrity; he had a wife; he was an
older man, looking weak in the eyes by the time he was fifty; and he had no motive for travel
except discontent with staying at home.  He tried to get away again on a mission to the Convent
of St. Catherine, on Mount Sinai, to acquire manuscripts for the British Museum; but he failed,
and the manuscripts went to St. Petersburg instead of Bloomsbury.

In 1843 Henry Wyndham Phillips, R.A., painted his portrait.  He was a restless sitter until
the painter remarked: "I have always heard, Mr. Borrow, that the Persian is a very fine language;
is it so?"  "It is, Phillips; it is."  "Perhaps you will not mind reciting me something in
the Persian tongue?" said Phillips.  "Dear me, no; certainly not."  And then "Mr. Borrow's
face lit up with the light that Phillips longed for, and he kept declaiming at the top of his
voice, while the painter made the most of his opportunity." {205}  According to the story,
Phillips had the like success with Turkish and Armenian, and successfully stilled Borrow's
desire "to get out into the fresh air and sunlight."

In the same way, writing and literary ambition kept Borrow from travel.  At one moment he got
satisfaction from professing scorn of authorship, at another, speaking of Byron, he reflected:

"Well, perhaps after all it was better to have been mighty Milton in his poverty and blindness--witty
and ingenious Butler consigned to the tender mercies of bailiffs, and starving Otway; they
might enjoy more real pleasure than this lordling; they must have been aware that the world
would one day do them justice--fame after death is better than the top of fashion in life.
They have left a fame behind them which shall never die, whilst this lordling--a time will
come when he will be out of fashion and forgotten.  And yet I don't know; didn't he write Childe
Harold and that ode?  Yes, he wrote Childe Harold and that ode.  Then a time will scarcely
come when he will be forgotten.  Lords, squires, and cockneys may pass away, but a time will
scarcely come when Childe Harold and that ode will be forgotten.  He was a poet, after all--and
he must have known it; a real poet, equal to--to--what a destiny!"

It is said that in actual life Borrow refused to be introduced to a Russian scholar "simply
because he moved in the literary world."

I should think, too, that Borrow was both questioner and answerer in the conversation with
the literary man who had the touching mania:

"'With respect to your present troubles and anxieties, would it not be wise, seeing that authorship
causes you so much trouble and anxiety, to give it up altogether?'

"'Were you an author yourself,' replied my host, 'you would not talk in this manner; once an
author, ever an author--besides, what could I do? return to my former state of vegetation?
no, much as I endure, I do not wish that; besides, every now and then my reason tells me that
these troubles and anxieties of mine are utterly without foundation; that whatever I write
is the legitimate growth of my own mind, and that it is the height of folly to afflict myself
at any chance resemblance between my own thoughts and those of other writers, such resemblance
being inevitable from the fact of our common human origin. . . ."

Knapp gives at length a story showing what an author Borrow was, and how little his travels
had sweetened him.  He had long promised to review Ford's "Handbook for Spain," when it should
appear.  In 1845 he wrote an article and sent it in to the "Quarterly" as a review of the Handbook.
It had nothing to do with the book and very little to do with the subject of the book, and
Lockhart, the "Quarterly" editor, suggested turning it into a review by a few interpolations
and extracts.  Borrow would not have the article touched.  Both Lockhart and Ford advised him
to send it to "Fraser's" or another magazine where it was certain to be welcomed as a Spanish
essay by the author of "The Bible in Spain."  But no: and the article was never printed anywhere.

Yet Borrow was not settling down to authorship pure and simple.  He flew into a passion because
a new railway line, in 1846, ran through his estate.  He flew into a passion, did nothing,
and remained on his estates until 1853, when he and his family went into lodgings at Yarmouth.
I have not discovered how much he profited by the intrusion of the railway, except when he
pilloried the contractor, his neighbour, Mr. Peto, as Flamson, in the Appendix to "The Romany
Rye."  Then he tried again to be put on the Commission of the Peace, with no success.  He probably
spent much of his time in being either suspicious, or ambitious, or indignant. In 1847, for
example, he suspected his friend Dr. Bowring--his "only friend" in 1842--of using his work
to get for himself the consulship at Canton, which he was professing to obtain for Borrow.
The result was the foaming abuse of "The Romany Rye," where Bowring is the old Radical.  The
affair of the Sinai manuscripts followed close on this.  All that he saw of foreign lands was
at the Exhibition of 1851, where he frequently accosted foreigners in their own tongue, so
that it began to be whispered about that he was "uncanny": he excited so much remark that his
daughter thought it better to drag him away.

He was suffering from ill-health and untranquility of mind which gave his mother anxiety, though
his physical strength appears not to have degenerated, for in 1853, at Yarmouth, he rescued
a man out of a stormy sea.  He was an unpleasant companion for those whom he did not like or
could not get on with.  Thackeray tried to get up a conversation with him, his final effort
being the question, "Have you seen my 'Snob Papers' in 'Punch'?"  To which Borrow answered:
"In 'Punch'?  It is a periodical I never look at."  He once met Miss Agnes Strickland:

"Borrow was unwilling to be introduced, but was prevailed on to submit. He sat down at her
side; before long she spoke with rapture of his works, and asked his permission to send him
a copy of her 'Queens of England.' He exclaimed, 'For God's sake, don't, madam, I should not
know where to put them or what to do with them.'  On this he rose, fuming, as was his wont
when offended, and said to Mr. Donne, 'What a damned fool that woman is!'  The fact is that,
whenever Borrow was induced to do anything unwillingly, he lost his temper." {208}

The friend who tells this story, Gordon Hake, a poet and doctor at Bury St. Edmunds, tells
also that once when he was at dinner with a banker who had recently "struck the docket" to
secure payment from a friend of Borrow's, and the banker's wife said to him: "Oh Mr. Borrow,
I have read your books with so much pleasure!" the great man exclaimed: "Pray, what books do
you mean, madam?  Do you mean my account books?"  How touchy he was, Mr. Walling shows, by
his story of Borrow in Cornwall neglecting a lady all one evening because she bore the name
of the man his father had knocked down at Menheniot Fair.  Several stories of his crushing
remarks prove nothing but that he was big and alarming and uncontrolled.

{picture: Gordon Hake.  From the painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti.  By kind permission of
Mrs. George Gordon Hake: page209.jpg}

Very little record of his friendly intercourse with men at this middle period remains.  Several
letters, of 1853, 1856 and 1857, alone survive to show that he met and received letters from
Fitzgerald.  That Fitzgerald enjoyed an evening with him in 1856 tells us little; and even
so it appears that Fitzgerald only wanted to ask him to read some of the "Northern Ballads"--"but
you shut the book"--and that he doubted whether Borrow wished to keep up the acquaintance.
They had friends in common, and Fitzgerald had sent Borrow a copy of his "Six Dramas of Calderon,"
in 1853, confessing that he had had thoughts of sending the manuscript first for an inspection.
He also told Borrow when he was about to make the "dangerous experiment" of marriage with Miss
Barton "of Quaker memory." In 1857 Borrow came to see him and had the loan of the "Rubaiyat"
in manuscript, and Fitzgerald showed his readiness to see more of the "Great Man."  In 1859
he sent Borrow a copy of "Omar."  He found Borrow's "masterful manners and irritable temper
uncongenial," {209} but succeeded, unlike many other friends, in having no quarrel with him.
Near the end of his life, in 1875, it was Borrow that tried to renew the acquaintance, but
in vain, for Fitzgerald reminded him that friends "exist and enjoy themselves pretty reasonably
without me," and asked, was not being alone better than having company?

If Borrow had little consideration for others' feelings, his consideration for his own was
exquisite, as this story, belonging to 1856, may help to prove:

"There were three personages in the world whom he always had a desire to see; two of these
had slipped through his fingers, so he was determined to see the third.  'Pray, Mr. Borrow,
who were they?'  He held up three fingers of his left hand and pointed them off with the forefinger
of the right: the first, Daniel O'Connell; the second, Lamplighter (the sire of Phosphorus,
Lord Berners's winner of the Derby); the third, Anna Gurney. . . ."

One spring day during the Crimean War, when he was walking round Norfolk, he sent word to Anna
Gurney to announce his coming, and she was ready to receive him.

"When, according to his account, he had been but a very short time in her presence, she wheeled
her chair round and reached her hand to one of her bookshelves and took down an Arabic Grammar,
and put it into his hand, asking for explanation of some difficult point, which he tried to
decipher; but meanwhile she talked to him continuously; when, said he, 'I could not study the
Arabic Grammar and listen to her at the same time, so I threw down the book and ran out of
the room.'  He seems not to have stopped running till he reached Old Tucker's Inn, at Cromer,
where he renewed his strength, or calmed his temper, with five excellent sausages, and then
came on to Sheringham. . . ." {210a}

The distance is a very good two miles, and Borrow's age was forty-nine.

He is said also to have been considerate towards his mother, the poor, and domestic animals.
Probably he and his mother understood one another. When he could not write to her, he got his
wife to do so; and from 1849 she lived with them at Oulton.  As to the poor, Knapp tells us
that he left behind him letters of gratitude or acknowledgment from individuals, churches,
and chapels.  As to animals, once when he came upon some men beating a horse that had fallen,
he gave it ale of sufficient quantity and strength to set it soon upon the road trotting with
the rest of its kind, after the men had received a lecture. {210b}  It is also related that
when a favourite old cat crawled out to die in the hedge he brought it into the house, where
he "laid it down in a comfortable spot and watched it till it was dead."  His horse, Sidi Habismilk,
the Arab, seems to have returned his admiration and esteem.  He said himself, in "Wild Wales,"
after expressing his relief that a boy and dog had not seen a weazel that ran across his path:

"I hate to see poor wild animals persecuted and murdered, lose my appetite for dinner at hearing
the screams of a hare pursued by greyhounds, and am silly enough to feel disgust and horror
at the squeals of a rat in the fangs of a terrier, which one of the sporting tribe once told
me were the sweetest sounds in 'natur.'"

CHAPTER XXIV--"LAVENGRO" AND "THE ROMANY RYE"

Instead of travelling over the world Borrow wrote his autobiography and spent so many years
on it that his contempt for the pen had some excuse. I have already said almost all there is
to say about these labours. {212} Knapp has shown that they were protracted to include matters
relating to Bowring and long posterior to the period covered by the autobiography, and that
the magnitude of these additions compelled him to divide the book in two.  The first part was
"Lavengro," published in 1851, with an ending that is now, and perhaps was then, obviously
due to the knife.  The sceptical and hostile criticism of "Lavengro" delayed the appearance
of the remainder of the autobiography, "The Romany Rye."

Borrow had to reply to his critics and explain himself.  This he did in the Appendix, and thus
changed, the book was finished in 1853 or 1854. Something in Murray's attitude while they were
discussing publication mounted Borrow on the high horse, and yet again he fumed because Murray
had expressed a private opinion and had revealed his feeling that the book was not likely to
make money for anyone.

{picture: Cancelled title-page of "Lavengro".  In some places he turns openly aside to express
his feeling or opinion at the time of writing, as, for example, in his praise of the Orangemen,
or, on the very first page, where he claims to spring from a family of gentlemen, though "not
very wealthy," that the reader may see at once he is "not altogether of low and plebeian origin."
But by far more important is the indirect self-revelation when he is recalling that other distant
self, the child of three or of ten, the youth of twenty.

Ford had asked Borrow for a book of his adventures and travels, something "thick and slab,"
to follow "The Bible in Spain."  The result shows that Borrow had almost done with outward
adventure.  "The Bible in Spain" had an atmosphere composed at best of as much Spain as Borrow.
But the autobiography is pure inward Borrow: except a few detachable incidents there is nothing
in it which is not Borrow's creation, nothing which would have any value apart from his own
treatment of it.  A man might have used "The Bible in Spain" as a kind of guide to men and
places in 1843, and it is possible he would not have been wholly disappointed.  The autobiography
does not depend on anything outside itself, but creates its own atmosphere and dwells in it
without admitting that of the outer world--no: not even by references to events like the campaign
of Waterloo or the funeral of Byron; and, as if conscious that this other atmosphere must be
excluded, Borrow has hardly mentioned a name which could act upon the reader as a temporary
check to the charm.  When he does recall contemporary events, and speaks as a Briton to Britons,
the rant is of a brave degree that is almost as much his own, and it makes more intense than
ever the solitude and inwardness of the individual life going on side by side with war and
with politics.

"Pleasant were those days of my early boyhood; and a melancholy pleasure steals over me as
I recall them.  Those were stirring times of which I am speaking, and there was much passing
around me calculated to captivate the imagination.  The dreadful struggle which so long convulsed
Europe, and in which England bore so prominent a part, was then at its hottest; we were at
war, and determination and enthusiasm shone in every face; man, woman and child were eager
to fight the Frank, the hereditary, but, thank God, never dreaded enemy of the Anglo-Saxon
race.  'Love your country and beat the French, and then never mind what happens,' was the cry
of entire England.  Oh those were days of power, gallant days, bustling days, worth the bravest
days of chivalry, at least; tall battalions of native warriors were marching through the land;
there was the glitter of the bayonet and the gleam of the sabre; the shrill squeak of the fife
and loud rattling of the drum were heard in the streets of county towns, and the loyal shouts
of the inhabitants greeted the soldiery on their arrival or cheered them at their departure.
And now let us leave the upland and descend to the sea-board; there is a sight for you upon
the billows!  A dozen men-of-war are gliding majestically out of port, their long buntings
streaming from the top-gallant masts, calling on the skulking Frenchman to come forth from
his bights and bays; and what looms upon us yonder from the fog-bank in the East?  A gallant
frigate towing behind her the long low hull of a crippled privateer, which but three short
days ago had left Dieppe to skim the sea, and whose crew of ferocious hearts are now cursing
their impudence in an English hold.  Stirring times those, which I love to recall, for they
were days of gallantry and enthusiasm, and were moreover the days of my boyhood."

"Pleasant were those days," and there is a "melancholy pleasure" in recalling them.  The two
combine in this autobiography with strange effect, for they set the man side by side with the
child as an invisible companion haunting him.

Whatever was the change that came over Borrow in the 'forties, and showed itself in melancholy
and unrest, this long-continued contemplation of his childhood betrayed him into a profound
change of tone.  Neither Africa nor the East could have shown him as much mystery as this wide
England of a child ignorant of geography, and it kept hold of him for twice as long as Spain.
It offered him relief and escape, and gladly did he accept them, and deeply he indulged in
them.  He found that he had that within himself as wild as any mountain or maniac-haunted ruin
of Spain.  For example, he recalled his schooldays in Ireland, and how one day he set out to
visit his elder brother, the boy lieutenant:

"The distance was rather considerable, yet I hoped to be back by evening fall, for I was now
a shrewd walker, thanks to constant practice.  I set out early, and, directing my course towards
the north, I had in less than two hours accomplished considerably more than half of the journey.
The weather had been propitious: a slight frost had rendered the ground firm to the tread,
and the skies were clear; but now a change came over the scene, the skies darkened, and a heavy
snow-storm came on; the road then lay straight through a bog, and was bounded by a deep trench
on both sides; I was making the best of my way, keeping as nearly as I could in the middle
of the road, lest, blinded by the snow which was frequently borne into my eyes by the wind,
I might fall into the dyke, when all at once I heard a shout to windward, and turning my eyes
I saw the figure of a man, and what appeared to be an animal of some kind, coming across the
bog with great speed, in the direction of myself; the nature of the ground seemed to offer
but little impediment to these beings, both clearing the holes and abysses which lay in their
way with surprising agility; the animal was, however, some slight way in advance, and, bounding
over the dyke, appeared on the road just before me.  It was a dog, of what species I cannot
tell, never having seen the like before or since; the head was large and round; the ears so
tiny as scarcely to be discernible; the eyes of a fiery red; in size it was rather small than
large; and the coat, which was remarkably smooth, as white as the falling flakes.  It placed
itself directly in my path, and showing its teeth, and bristling its coat, appeared determined
to prevent my progress.  I had an ashen stick in my hand, with which I threatened it; this,
however, only served to increase its fury; it rushed upon me, and I had the utmost difficulty
to preserve myself from its fangs.

"'What are you doing with the dog, the fairy dog?' said a man, who at this time likewise cleared
the dyke at a bound.

"He was a very tall man, rather well dressed as it should seem; his garments, however, were
like my own, so covered with snow that I could scarcely discern their quality.

"'What are ye doing with the dog of peace?'

