"The tube to the bridge is out of commission," he called, "but I can raise the chief. He says
no man can live on deck; one's gone overboard already. The second watch can't get out of the
forecastle. It's up to us, men, to keep this ship afloat, and steam's the only thing that'll
do it."

For the next hour and the next the fire-room force and the two men in the engine-room stuck
doggedly to their work. They knew that the San Gardo was making a desperate struggle, that
it was touch and go whether the ship would live out the hurricane or sink to the bottom. They
knew also, to the last man of them, that if for a moment the ship fell off broadside to the
seas, the giant waves would roll her over and over like an empty barrel in a mill-race. The
groaning of every rib and plate in the hull, the crash of seas against the sides, the thunder
of waves breaking on deck, drowned the usual noises below.

The color of the men's courage began to show. Some kept grimly at their work, dumb from fear.
Others covered fright with profanity, cursing the storm, the ship, their mates, cursing themselves.
Larry, as he threw coal steadily through his fire-doors, hummed a broken tune. He gave no heed
to Dan, who grew more savage as the slow hours of overtoil dragged by.

About four in the morning Neville called Larry to the engine-room. On his return Dan blazed
out at him:

"Boot-lickin' Neville ag'in, was you? I'd lay you out, you shrimp, only I want you to do your
work."

Larry took up his shovel; as usual his silence enraged Sullivan.

"You chicken-livered wharf-rat, ain't you got no spunk to answer wid?" Dan jerked a slice-bar
from the fire and hurled it to the floor at Larry's feet. The little man leaped in the air;
the white-hot end of the bar, bounding from the floor, missed his legs by an inch.

Larry's jaw shot out; he turned on Sullivan, all meekness gone.

"Dan," he cried shrilly, "if you try that again--"

"Great God! what's that!"

Dan's eyes were staring; panic showed on every face in the room. The sound of an explosion
had come from the forward hold. Another followed, and another, a broadside of deafening reports.
The terrifying sounds came racing aft. They reached the bulkhead nearest them, and tore through
the fire-room, bringing unmasked fear to every man of the watch. The crew stood for a moment
awed, then broke, and, rushing for the ladder, fought for a chance to escape this new, unknown
madness of the storm.

Only Larry kept his head.

"Stop! Come back!" His shrill voice carried above the terrifying noise. "It's the plates bucklin'
between the ribs."

"Plates! Hell! she's breakin' up!"

Neville rushed in from the engine-room.

"Back to your fires, men, or we'll all drown! Steam, keep up--" He was shouting at full-lung
power, but his cries were cut short. Again the deafening reports started at the bows. Again,
crash after crash, the sounds came tearing aft as if a machine-gun were raking the vessel from
bow to stern. At any time these noises would bring terror to men locked below decks; but now,
in the half-filled cargo spaces, each crashing report was like the bursting of a ten-inch shell.

Neville went among the watch, urging, commanding, assuring them that these sounds meant no
real danger to the ship. He finally ended the panic by beating the more frightened ones back
to their boilers.

Then for hours, at every plunge of the ship, the deafening boom of buckling plates continued
until the watch was crazed by the sound.

This new terror began between four and five in the morning, when the men had served double
time under the grueling strain. At sunrise another misery was added to their torture: the rain
increased suddenly, and fell a steady cataract to the decks. This deluge and the flying spray
sent gallons of water down the stack; striking the breeching-plates, it was instantly turned
to steam and boiling water. As the fagged stokers bent before the boilers, the hot water, dripping
from the breeching, washed scalding channels through the coal-dust down their bare backs. They
hailed this new torment with louder curses, but continued to endure it for hours, while outside
the hurricane raged, no end, no limit, to its power.

Since the beginning of the watch the bilge-pumps had had all they could do to handle the leakage
coming from the seams of the strained hull. Twice Neville had taken the throttle and sent his
oiler to clear the suctions. The violent lurching of the ship had churned up every ounce of
sediment that had lain undisturbed beneath the floor-plates since the vessel's launching. Sometime
between seven and eight all the bilge-pumps clogged at the same moment, and the water began
rising at a rate that threatened the fires. It became a question of minutes between life and
death for all hands. Neville, working frantically to clear the pumps, yelled to the oiler to
leave the throttle and come to him. The water, gaining fast, showed him that their combined
efforts were hopeless. He ran to the boiler-room for more aid. Here the water had risen almost
to the fires; as the ship rolled, it slushed up between the floor-plates and ran in oily streams
about the men's feet. Again panic seized the crew.

"Come on, lads!" Sullivan shouted above the infernal din. "We'll be drowned in this hell-hole!"

In the next second he was half-way up the ladder, below him, clinging to the rungs like frightened
apes, hung other stokers.

"Come back, you fool!" Neville shouted. "Open that deck-door, and you'll swamp the ship!"

Dan continued to climb.

"Come down or I'll fire!"

"Shoot an' be damned to you!" Dan called back.

The report of Neville's revolver was lost in the noise; but the bullet, purposely sent high,
spattered against the steel plate above Dan's head. He looked down. Neville, swaying with the
pitching floor, was aiming true for his second shot. Cursing at the top of his voice, Dan scrambled
down the ladder, pushing the men below him to the floor.

"Back to your boilers!" Neville ordered; but the stokers, huddled in a frightened group, refused
to leave the ladder.

It was only a matter of seconds now before the fires would be drenched. Bilge-water was splashing
against the under boiler-plates, filling the room with dense steam. Neville left the men and
raced for the engine-room. He found Larry and the oiler working desperately at the valve-wheel
of the circulating pump. Neville grasped the wheel, and gave the best he had to open the valve.
This manifold, connecting the pump with the bilges, was intended only for emergency use. It
had not been opened for months, and was now rusted tight. The three men, straining every muscle,
failed to budge the wheel. After the third hopeless attempt, Larry let go, and without a word
bolted through the passage to the fire-room.

"You miserable quitter!" Neville screamed after him, and bent again to the wheel.

As he looked up, despairing of any chance to loosen the rusted valve, Larry came back on the
run, carrying a coal-pick handle. He thrust it between the spokes of the wheel.

"Now, Mr. Neville, all together!" His Celtic jaw was set hard.

All three threw their weight against the handle. The wheel stirred.

As they straightened for another effort, a louder noise of hissing steam sounded from the boilers,
and the fire-room force, mad with fright, came crowding through the passage to the higher floor
of the engine-room.

"Quick! Together!" Neville gasped.

The wheel moved an inch.

"Once more! Now!"

The wheel turned and did not stop. The three men dropped the lever, seized the wheel, and threw
the valve wide open.

"Good work, men!" Neville cried, and fell back exhausted.

The centrifugal pump was thrown in at the last desperate moment. When the rusted valve finally
opened, water had risen to the lower grate-bars under every boiler in the fire-room. But once
in action, the twelve-inch suction of the giant pump did its work with magic swiftness. In
less than thirty seconds the last gallon of water in the bilges had been lifted and sent, rushing
through the discharge, overboard.

Neville faced the boiler-room crew sternly.

"Now, you cowards, get to your fires!" he said.

As the men slunk back through the passage Dan growled:

"May that man some day burn in hell!"

"Don't be wishin' him no such luck," an angry voice answered; "wish him down here wid us."

* * *

The morning dragged past; noon came, marking the sixteenth hour that the men, imprisoned below
the sea-swept decks, had struggled to save the ship. Sundown followed, and the second night
of their unbroken toil began. They stuck to it, stood up somehow under the racking grind, their
nerves quivering, their bodies craving food, their eyes gritty from the urge of sleep, while
always the hideous noises of the gale screamed in their ears. The machine-gun roar of buckling
plates, raking battered hull, never ceased.

With each crawling minute the men grew more silent, more desperate. Dan Sullivan let no chance
pass to vent his spleen on Larry. Twice during the day his fellow-stokers, watching the familiar
scene, saw the big man reach the point of crushing the small one; but the ever-expected blow
did not fall.

Shortly after midnight the first hope came to the exhausted men that their fight might not
be in vain. Though the buckling plates still thundered, though the floor under their feet still
pitched at crazy angles, there was a "feel" in the fire-room that ribs and beams and rivets
were not so near the breaking-point.

Neville came to the end of the passage.

"The hurricane's blowing itself to death," he shouted. "Stick to it, boys, for an hour longer;
the second watch can reach us by then."

The hour passed, but no relief came. The wind had lost some force, but the seas still broke
over the bows, pouring tons of water to the deck. The vessel pitched as high, rolled as deep,
as before.

As the men fired their boilers they rested the filled scoops on the floor and waited for the
ship to roll down. Then a quick jerk of the fire-door chain, a quick heave of the shovel, and
the door was snapped shut before the floor rolled up again. Making one of these hurried passes,
Larry swayed on tired legs. He managed the toss and was able to close the door before he fell
hard against Dan. His sullen enemy instantly launched a new tirade, fiercer, more blasphemous,
than any before. He ended a stream of oaths, and rested the scoop ready for his throw.

"I'll learn yuh, yuh snivelin'--" The ship rolled deep. Dan jerked the fire-door open--"yuh
snivelin' shrimp!" He glared at Larry as he made the pass. He missed the opening. His shovel
struck hard against the boiler front. The jar knocked Dan to the floor, pitched that moment
at its steepest angle. He clutched desperately to gain a hold on the smooth-worn steel plates,
his face distorted by fear as he slid down to the fire.

Larry, crying a shrill warning, sprang between Sullivan and the open furnace. He stooped, and
with all the strength he could gather shoved the big stoker from danger. Then above the crashing
sounds a shriek tore the steam-clouded air of the fire-room. Larry had fallen!

As his feet struck the ash-door, the ship rolled up. A cascade falling from Dan's fire had
buried Larry's legs to the knees under a bed of white-hot coals. He shrieked again the cry
of the mortally hurt as Dan dragged him too late from before the open door.

"Mouse! Mouse!" Horror throbbed in Sullivan's voice. "You're hurted bad!" He knelt, holding
Larry in his arms, while others threw water on the blazing coals.

"Speak, lad!" Dan pleaded. "Speak to me!"

The fire-room force stood over them silenced. Accident, death even, they always expected; but
to see Dan Sullivan show pity for any living thing, and above all, for the Bunker Mouse--

The lines of Larry's tortured face eased.

"It's the last hurt I'll be havin', Dan," he said before he fainted.

"Don't speak the word, Mouse, an' you just after savin' me life!" Then the men in the fire-room
saw a miracle: tears filled the big stoker's eyes.

Neville had heard Larry's cry and rushed to the boiler-room.

"For God's sake! what's happened now?"

Dan pointed a shaking finger. Neville looked once at what only a moment before had been the
legs and feet of a man. As he turned quickly from the sight the engineer's face was like chalk.

"Here, two of you," he called unsteadily, "carry him to the engine-room."

Dan threw the men roughly aside.

"Leave him be," he growled. "Don't a one of you put hand on him!" He lifted Larry gently and,
careful of each step, crossed the swaying floor.

"Lay him there by the dynamo," Neville ordered when they had reached the engine-room.

Dan hesitated.

"'T ain't fittin', sir, an' him so bad' hurt. Let me be takin' him to the store-room."

Neville looked doubtfully up the narrow stairs.

"We can't get him there with this sea running."

Sullivan spread his legs wide, took both of Larry's wrists in one hand, and swung the unconscious
man across his back. He strode to the iron stairs and began to climb. As he reached the first
grating Larry groaned. Dan stopped dead; near him the great cross-heads were plunging steadily
up and down.

"God, Mr. Neville, did he hit ag'in' somethin'?" The sweat of strain and fear covered his face.

The vessel leaped to the crest of a wave, and dropped sheer into the trough beyond.

"No; but for God's sake, man, go on! You'll pitch with him to the floor if she does that again!"

Dan, clinging to the rail with his free hand, began climbing the second flight.

At the top grating Neville sprang past him to the store-room door.

"Hold him a second longer," he called, and spread an armful of cotton waste on the vise bench.

Dan laid Larry on the bench. He straightened his own great body for a moment, then sat down
on the floor and cried.

Neville, pretending not to see Dan's distress, brought more waste. As he placed it beneath
his head Larry groaned. Dan, still on the floor, wrung his hands, calling on the saints and
the Virgin to lighten the pain of this man it had been his joy to torture.

Neville turned to him.

"Get up from there!" he cried sharply. "Go see what you can find to help him."

Dan left the room, rubbing his red-flanneled arm across his eyes. He returned quickly with
a can of cylinder oil, and poured it slowly over the horribly burned limbs.

"There ain't no bandages, sir; only this." He held out a shirt belonging to the engineer; his
eyes pleaded his question. Neville nodded, and Dan tore the shirt in strips. When he finished
the task, strange to his clumsy hands, Larry had regained consciousness and lay trying pitifully
to stifle his moans.

"Does it make you feel aisier, Mouse?" Dan leaned close to the quivering lips to catch the answer.

"It helps fine," Larry answered, and fainted again.

"You'll be leavin' me stay wid him, sir?" Dan begged. "'T was for me he's come to this."

Neville gave consent and left the two men together.

* * *

Between four and five in the morning, when Neville's watch had lived through thirty-three unbroken
hours of the fearful grind, a shout that ended in a screaming laugh ran through the fire-room.
High above the toil-crazed men a door had opened and closed. A form, seen dimly through the
smoke and steam, was moving backward down the ladder. Again the door opened; another man came
through. Every shovel in the room fell to the steel floor; every man in the room shouted or
laughed or cried.

The engine-room door, too, had opened, admitting the chief and his assistant. Not until he
had examined each mechanical tragedy below did the chief give time to the human one above.

"Where's that man that's hurt?" he asked as he came, slowly, from an inspection of the burned-out
bearings down the shaft alley.

Neville went with him to the store-room. Dan, sagging under fatigue, clung to the bench where
Larry lay moaning.

"You can go now, Sullivan," Neville told him.

Dan raised his head, remorse, entreaty, stubbornness in his look.

"Let me be! I'll not leave him!"

The chief turned to Neville.

"What's come over that drunk?" he asked.

"Ever since the Mouse got hurt, Sullivan's acted queer, just like a woman."

"Get to your quarters, Sullivan," the chief ordered. "We'll take care of this man."

Dan's hands closed; for an instant he glared rebellion from blood-shot eyes. Then the iron
law of sea discipline conquering, he turned to Larry.

"The Blessed Virgin aise you, poor Mouse!" he mumbled huskily and slouched out through the door.

* * *

At midday the San Gardo's captain got a shot at the sun. Though his vessel had been headed
steadily northeast for more than thirty hours, the observation showed that she had made twenty-eight
miles sternway to the southwest. By two in the afternoon the wind had dropped to half a gale,
making a change of course possible. The captain signaled full speed ahead, and the ship, swinging
about, began limping across the gulf, headed once more toward Galveston.

Neville, who had slept like a stone, came on deck just before sunset. The piled-up seas, racing
along the side, had lost their breaking crests; the ship rose and fell with some degree of
regularity. He called the boatswain and went to the store-room.

They found Larry in one of his conscious moments.

"Well, Mouse, we're going to fix you in a better place," the engineer called with what heart
he could show.

"Thank you kindly, sir," Larry managed to answer; "but 't is my last voyage, Mr. Neville."
And the grit that lay hidden in the man's soul showed in his pain-twisted smile.

They carried him up the last flight of iron stairs to the deck. Clear of the engine-room, the
boatswain turned toward the bow.

"No. The other way, Boson," Neville ordered.

The chief, passing them, stopped.

"Where are you taking him, Mr. Neville?"

"The poor fellow's dying, sir," Neville answered in a low voice.

"Well, where are you taking him?" the chief persisted.

"I'd like to put him in my room, sir."

"A stoker in officers' quarters!" The chief frowned. "Sunday-school discipline!" He disappeared
through the engine-room door, slamming it after him.

They did what they could, these seamen, for the injured man; on freighters one of the crew
has no business to get hurt. They laid Larry in Neville's berth and went out, leaving a sailor
to watch over him.

The sun rose the next day in a cloudless sky, and shone on a brilliant sea of tumbling, white-capped
waves. Far off the starboard bow floated a thin line of smoke from a tug's funnel, the first
sign to the crew since the hurricane that the world was not swept clean of ships. Two hours
later the tug was standing by, her captain hailing the San Gardo through a megaphone.

"Run in to New Orleans!" he shouted.

"I cleared for Galveston, and I'm going there," the San Gardo's captain called back.

"No, you ain't neither."

"I'd like to know why, I won't."

"Because you can't,"--the answer carried distinctly across the waves,--"there ain't no such
place. It's been washed clean off the earth."

The San Gardo swung farther to the west and with her engine pounding at every stroke, limped
on toward the Mississippi.

At five o'clock a Port Eads pilot climbed over the side, and taking the vessel through South
Pass, straightened her in the smooth, yellow waters of the great river for the hundred-mile
run to New Orleans.

When the sun hung low over the sugar plantations that stretch in flat miles to the east and
west beyond the levees, when all was quiet on land and water and ship, Neville walked slowly
to the forecastle.

"Sullivan," he called, "come with me."

Dan climbed down from his bunk and came to the door; the big stoker searched Neville's face
with a changed, sobered look.

"I've been wantin' all this time to go to 'im. How's he now, sir?"

"He's dying, Sullivan, and has asked for you."

Outside Neville's quarters Dan took off his cap and went quietly into the room.

Larry lay with closed eyes, his face ominously white.

Dan crept clumsily to the berth and put his big hand on Larry's shoulder.

"It's me, Mouse. They wouldn't leave me come no sooner."

Larry's head moved slightly; his faded eyes opened.

Dan stooped in awkward embarrassment until his face was close to Larry.

"I come to ask you--" Dan stopped. The muscles of his thick neck moved jerkily--"to ask you,
Mouse, before--to forgit the damn mean things--I done to you, Mouse."

Larry made no answer; he kept his failing sight fixed on Dan.

After a long wait Sullivan spoke again.

"An' to think you done it, Mouse, for me!"

A light sprang to Larry's eyes, flooding his near-sighted gaze with sudden anger.

"For you!" The cry came from his narrow chest with jarring force. "You! You!" he repeated in
rising voice. "It's always of yourself you're thinkin', Dan Sullivan!" He stopped, his face
twitching in pain; then with both hands clenched he went on, his breast heaving at each word
hurled at Dan:

"Do you think I followed you from ship to ship, dragged you out of every rum-hole in every
port, for your own sake!"

He lay back exhausted, his chest rising and falling painfully, his eyelids fluttering over
his burning eyes.

Dan stepped back, and, silenced, stared at the dying man.

Larry clung to his last moments of life, fighting for strength to finish. He struggled, and
raised himself on one elbow.

"For you!" he screamed. "No, for Mary! For Mary, my own flesh and blood--Mary, the child of
the woman I beat when I was drunk an' left to starve when I got ready!"

Through the stateroom door the sun's flat rays struck full on Larry's inspired face. He swayed
on his elbow; his head fell forward. By a final effort he steadied himself. His last words
came in ringing command.

"Go back! Go--" he faltered, gasping for breath--"go home sober to Mary an' the child that's
comin'!"

The fire of anger drifted slowly from Larry's dying gaze. The little man fell back. The Bunker
Mouse went out, all man, big at the end.

RAINBOW PETE[13]

[Note 13: Copyright, 1917, by The Pictorial Review Company. Copyright, 1918, by Richard Matthews
Hallet.]

BY RICHARD MATTHEWS HALLET

From The Pictorial Review

In pursuance of a policy to detain us on the island at Sick Dog until the arrival of his daughter,
Papa Isbister thought fit to tell us the fate of Rainbow Pete, of whose physical deformity
and thirst for gold we knew something already. Rainbow Pete had come to Mushrat Portage, playing
his flute, at a time when preparations were being made to blast a road-bed through the wilderness
for the railroad.

Mushrat Portage had been but recently a willow clump, and a black rock ledge hanging over a
precipitous valley: the hand of the Indian could be seen one day parting the leaves of the
trail, and on the next, drills came and tins of black powder, and hordes of greedy men, blind
with a burning zeal for "monkeying with powder" as our host of Sick Dog said. They were strange
men, hoarse men, unreasonable men who cast sheep's-eyes at the dark woman from Regina, whose
shack, rented of Scarecrow Charlie, crowned the high point of the ledge. She was the only woman
on Mushrat, and at a time just before the blasting began, when Rainbow Pete sauntered over
the trail with his pick and his flute and his dirty bag of rock specimens, she was hungrily
watched and waited on by the new inhabitants of that ancient portage--Mushrat, whose destinies
were soon to be so splendid, and whose skies were to be rocked and rent by the thunders of
men struggling with reluctant nature, monkeying with powder.

When Pete laid down his tools and guns on the table at Scarecrow Charlie's, where the woman
was employed, had he in his heart some foreshadowing presentiment of the peril he was in, of
the sharp destroying fire of a resolute woman's eyes, which he was subjecting himself to, in
including her in his universal caress? Who knows? Perhaps his flute had whispered tidings to
him. He was, said Papa Isbister, immensely proud of his plaything, this huge gaunt sailor,
who had been bent into the shape of a rainbow--the foot of a rainbow--by a chance shot, which
shattered his hip and gave him an impressive forward cant, which appeared to women, it seemed--I
quote my old friend--in the light of an endearing droop.

The romantic visitation of this musical sailorman made the efforts of all Mushrat as nothing.
But Rainbow Pete seemed unaware of the fiery jealousies glowing in the night on all sides of
him when he fixed his eyes on her for the first time--with that mellow assurance of a careless
master of the hearts and whims of women.

"What's this he said to her?" said our old friend. "It was skilful; it was put like a notable
question if she took it so."

"You don't want to go out to-night," he said to her, with his guns on the table.

"No, I do not," she said to the man.

"There you will be taking the words out of my mouth to suit your heart," he went on saying
to her. "Mark this, I'm making this a command to you. You don't want to go out to-night. Do
not do it."

This he told her was on account of stray bullets, because he was meaning to shoot up that place.

Heh! It was a trick of his, to trap her into denying him when he had made no offer.

Old Isbister laughed heartily at this picture of Pete in the days of his triumph.

He was a captivating man, it appeared. He was tattooed. On his arms were snakes and the like
of that, daggers and the like of that, dragons and the like of that. This was a romantic skin
to the man; and his blue eyes were like the diamond drills they were bringing to Mushrat.

"Oh my," said the woman, leaning at his table, "this is what will be keeping me from mass,
I shouldn't wonder."

This was a prairie woman from Regina; now mark, it was whispered to be no credit to human nature
that she had had to leave that town. No. She was a full woman, very deep, with burning eyes.
It was hard talking with her, because of her lingering speech. Oh, she was a massive woman,
for the small shoes she wore. She was tall, as high as Rainbow Pete's shoulder. She purchased
scent for her hair. This I know, having seen it standing in the bottles. She was a prairie woman.

This was a wild night we spent on Mushrat, after Pete's reproving the woman there in Scarecrow
Charlie's place. Smash McGregor, the little doctor, was sitting between us in his yellow skull-cap;
and Willis Countryman was reading and drinking in one corner, listening to the laughing men
there. They were laughing, thinking of the fortunes there would be here when blasting begun.

But Rainbow Pete was not one of the rockmen. No. He told them strange tales of gold. Heh! He
was athirst for gold. Strange tales he told of gold. Once how in Australia he had hold of a
lump of it as big as poor McGregor's skull, but isn't it a perishing pity, oh my, this was
just a desert where he was, there was no water, he grew faint carrying the nugget. Our mouths
were open when the man told us he had dropped it in the desert, with his name carved on it.

"There it is to this day, sinking in the sands," he said. Oh, the proud woman from Regina.
There she turned her dark eyes over our heads, never looking at the plausible man at all; but
she had heard him.

"Gold?" said Smash McGregor. "Why, there's gold enough in the world."

"Ay, there's comfort too, if you know where to take it," said Rainbow Pete, twirling here at
his mustache and looking at the woman.

"There's gold," said McGregor, "for any man."

"Yes, my hearty," said Pete, "it's twinkling in the river-beds, it shines in the sands under
your feet, but still it's hard to get in your two fisties."

"Why," said Smash McGregor, "did you never hear there's a pot of gold at the foot of every
rainbow?"

Oh, my friend, as he went mentioning the rainbow, there was a thunder-cap on the brow of that
great sailor.

"So they call me--Rainbow Pete," he said.

"Look then," said McGregor, "take the pick, and strike the ground at your feet."

Rainbow Pete was not hearing them.

"This is a man I have been following on many trails," he muttered, "This man who made a rainbow
of me. Mark this, he shall thirst, if I meet him. Ay! He shall burn with these fingers at his
throat. He shall have gold poured into him like liquid, however."

It was plain he had no love for this man who had fashioned him in the form of a rainbow.

"What is this man called?" said the little doctor.

"It's a dark man wearing a red cap, called Pal Yachy," said Rainbow Pete. "He spends his time
escaping me. Look, where he shot me in the hip."

Now we shielded him, and he drew out his shirt showing the wound in the thigh which made a
rainbow of him; but stop, didn't McGregor discover the strange business on his spine?

"What's this, however?" he said.

"This is a palm-tree," said the man. "Stand close about me."

Oh my, we stood close, watching the man twisting up his shirt, and here we saw the palm-tree
going up his spine, and every joint of his spine was used for a joint of the tree, like; and
the long blue leaves were waving on his shoulder-blade when he would be rippling the skin.
This was a fine broad back like satin to be putting a palm-tree on. Look, as I am lifting my
head, here I see the dark woman silent at the bar, burning up with curiosity at what we are
hiding here. Listen, it's the man's voice, under his shirt.

"This was done in the South Seas, when I was young," he said to us, "and the bigger I grow,
the bigger the tree is. And now what next?" Then he put his shirt back, and stood up to be
fixing an eye on the woman from Regina.

He was first to be waited on at Scarecrow Charlie's. Yes, he was first. This was a mystery
of a man to that dark woman from Regina.

Now in these days before blasting began, they were fond of talking marriage on Mushrat, thinking
of this woman from Regina, who was at the disposal of no man there. They were full of doubts
and wonderments, when they would be idling together in Scarecrow Charlie's. But now one morning
when they were idling there, Shoepack Sam must be yawning and saying to them,

"Oh, my, this is the time now, before the sun is up, I'm glad I am not married. It's a pleasure
to be a single man at this hour."

Heh! Heh! As a usual thing we are not gratified at all for this favor of heaven. A single man,
Shoepack Sam was saying, would not have to be looking at the wreck of his wife in the morning;
and this is when women were caught unawares in the gill-nets time is lowering for them.

"They are pale about the gills then," he said. "They are just drowned fish. They have stayed
in the nets too long."

"No, it's not certain," said Rainbow Pete. "She might be pleasant-looking on the pillow with
her hair adrift."

Then Shoepack told him that the salt water had leaked into his brains, what with his voyages.

"Still, this is a beautiful cheek," said Pete, speaking low, because she was moving about beyond
the boards.

"These things are purchased," said Shoepack, scraping his feet together in yellow moosehides.
"Listen to me, I have seen them in a long line, on her shelf, with many odors."

So they were talking together, and Rainbow Pete was putting his fingers to the flute and staring
down the valley, where Throat River was twisting like a rag.

"I could have had a wife for speaking at Kicking Horse," he said.

"There is one for speaking now," said Shoepack.

"In a few days I go North," Rainbow Pete went muttering. "There is gold at Dungeon Creek. I
have seen samples of this vein."

"She will be the less trouble to you then, if you are not satisfied on this question," said
Shoepack Sam.

Then Rainbow Pete said he was not so certain of her, on questioning himself. He was a modest man.

"This palm-tree and the other designs you have not been speaking about will be enticing her,"
said Shoepack Sam. "But do not speak to her of going away at the time of asking her."

"This is wisdom," said Rainbow Pete, and he put his lips to the flute, to be giving us a touch
of music.

This was a light reason for marriage, disn't it seem? This was what Willis Countryman called
a marriage of convenience, in the fashion of frogs. Ay! It was convenient to them to be married.
He was a great reader--Willis.

So they were married, I'm telling you, but it's impossible to know what he said to her in speaking
about it. They were married by the man called Justice of the Peace on Mushrat. This was before
the blasting, and it was the first marriage on Mushrat.

Then they lived together in the little house she had chosen, sitting on the black ledge above
Scarecrow Charlie's eating-place. Now it was a wonderment to Mushrat, to hear the sound of
Rainbow Pete's old flute dropping from the dark ledge, by night, when they were taking their
opinion of matrimony up there together, with a candle at the window.

But now look here, when Shoepack Sam came plucking him at the elbow, saying, "Was I right or
was I wrong?" then Rainbow Pete stared at him with his eyes like drills, and he said to him,
"You were curious and nothing more." Oh my, isn't this the perversity of married men.

They bore him a grudge on Mushrat, for his silence, because, disn't it seem, this was like
a general marriage satisfying all men's souls. It was treasonable. Oh my, it was sailor's mischief
to be living on that ledge, and dropping nothing but notes from his greasy flute. These are
sweet but they are hard to be turning into language.

Now one morning, when I saw him coming from the ledge with his bag of specimens over his shoulder,
I saw without speaking to him that he was parching with his thirst for gold. He was going away
into the bush, thinking no more of his new wife. Oh, he was a casual man.

"How is this?" I said. "Can she be left alone on the ledge?"

"Can she not?" said Rainbow Pete. "Old fellow, this is a substantial woman. She was alone before
I came."

"This is not the same thing," I said.

"It is the same woman," said Rainbow Pete, "she will be missing nothing but the flute."

Oh my, wasn't the flute a little thing to reckon with. He went North, dreaming of gold, and
here the matter they were thinking about was locked in his heart. They were angry with the
man on Mushrat. This was not what they were looking for between friends. They were hoping to
learn the result of the experiment; but this was vain.

When he was gone, I saw her looking down into the valley, where the first shots were being
fired in the rock. Ay, the sun was dazzling her eyes, but she dis not move, sitting as if her
arms have been chopped from the shoulders.

Now it was not many days after this that the blasting was begun on Mushrat. Men came with instruments
stamped by the government; these they pointed down the trail and drove stakes into the ground.
These were great days on Mushrat. Oh yes, numbers of Swedes and Italians were in a desperate
way monkeying with powder. It's a fetching business. In a week, look here, Scarecrow Charlie
left his eating-place to go monkeying with powder like the others, and disn't he get a bolt
of iron through his brain one morning? Oh, it's very much as if some one had pushed a broom-handle
through his skull.

That dark woman from Regina was not dismayed. She ran the eating-place herself. This was a
famous place: they heard of this as far West as Regina and they came here to work and eat,
attracted by her. She was valuable to the contractors, bringing labor here. Disn't it seem
an achievement for a married woman? Still, Rainbow Pete was not remembered after a time; and
she was a dark beauty, with a reputation for not saying much.

My, my, these were golden days for Smash McGregor. I ponder over them, thinking what a business
he had. He was paid by the contractors to be sorting out arms and legs, putting the short ones
together in one box, and the long ones in another, marked with charcoal to be shipped. Oh,
they were just gathering up parts of mortals in packing cases, dispatching them to Throat River
Landing; and blood was leaking on the decks every way in little lines. They were unlikely consignments.

Then, my friend, there came one night a dark man wearing a red cap and here under his arm he
had the instrument with strings. This was the Chief Contractor under the Government in this
region. He was rich; at Winnipeg he had stabled many blood horses. Then they were clustering
about him at Scarecrow Charlie's, asking him his name. This, he said, was Pal Yachy.

Oh my, now we knew him. This was the man who had given Pete his shape of a rainbow. Disn't
it seem an unfortunate thing for him to be coming here? Still he did not know at first that
this dark woman standing there was the wife of Rainbow Pete.

He went flashing at her with his teeth, the dark musician. Ay, he was better with the music
than Rainbow Pete's old flute. He sang, plucking this instrument, with a jolly face. Heh! Heh!
She leaned over the bar, looking at him, and dreaming of the prairies.

Then they told him that this woman was the wife of Rainbow Pete.

"Aha," he said, "but, my friends, a rainbow is not for very long. It is beautiful, but look,
it vanishes in air."

Was he afraid, without saying so? That I can not tell you. Still he stayed on Mushrat. He was
the destroyer of his countrymen. They blew themselves to pieces in his service, coming in great
numbers when he crooked his finger.

Then my friend, he made himself noticeable to that dark woman. He took his instrument to the
ledge and sang to her.

This I know from Willis Countryman who lived near that place. He told me that the man sang
in the night a soft song and that the woman listened. Ay, she listened in the window, looking
down into the valley where Throat River went roaring and the great Falls were like rags waving
in the dark. Ay, she sat watching the River come out of the North, where Rainbow Pete was cruising
after gold.

This Willis Countryman I'm telling you about was a fine man in his old age for reading. Oh,
it was not easy talking to the man, with his muttering and muttering and his chin down firm
intil the book. When he had his shack on Mouse Island the fire jumped over from the wind-rows
they were burning in a right of way. What next? Disn't he put his furs in a canoe to sink in
the lee of the island, and there he went on reading in the night with his chin out of water,
and the light from his house blazing and lighting up the book in his fist. Oh my, he was great
for reading, Willis.

Well, here, one night he came telling me about some queer women on a beach, singing. "Ay! It
was impossible to keep away from them while they were at it. What is their name again?"

He made a prolonged effort to remember, sighed painfully, fixed his gaze. I brought him back
as if from a fit of epilepsy by the interjection of the word, "Siren."

"Ay," he said, slowly and sadly. "The men put wax in their ears--" Now mark this. The day after
I was hearing this of Willis, the woman put her hand on my arm as I was passing the ledge.

"You are a friend of my husband's," she whispered to me.

"What now?" I said.

"Will he come back to me, I wonder?" she said, looking in the valley.

"This is a long business, searching for gold," I went muttering.

"No man can say I have been unfaithful to him," she said to me, the fierce woman, breathing
through her teeth. "I have been speaking to no man."

"This is certain," I said to her.

"If he dis not come according to my dream I am a lost woman, by this way of going on," she
said to me.

How is this? There were tears flowing on the face, while she was telling me she was bewitched
by the singing of Pal Yachy.

Oh, at first she would just lie listening there, but now the man with his sweet voice was drawing
her from her bed, to come putting aside the scented bottles and leaning in the window.

Now I said, "My good woman, I am an old man with knowledge of the world. This man is a--what's
this again--siren. He has a fatal voice. You must simply put wax in your ears not to hear it
when he comes."

What next? Disn't she confess to me that she has listened to him too many times to be deaf
to him. No, she must watch the valley when he comes singing his rich song; her cheeks were
wet then, and the wind went shaking her. No, this was not a moment for wax. I was an old man.
She prevailed upon me to sit outside her window in a chair, watching for him.

"Oh, I am afraid," she whispered to me, "being alone so high out of the valley."

There I sat by night, hearing sounds of thunder below this crag. Pebbles came rattling on the
window, the rapid was choked with flying rock. They were growing rich, these madmen monkeying
with powder. The government sent them gold in sacks, to pay those who were left for the lives
that had been lost.

They were mad; they tumbled champagne out of bottles into tubs, frisking about in it. They
had heard that this was done with money.

But Pal Yachy was more foolish. He came singing; oh my, this was a powerful song, ringing against
the ledges. This was a fantastic Italian, singing like an angel to the deserted woman. Her
eyes were dark; the breast heaved. Oh, these sweet notes were never lost on her.

Now at this time, too, Pal Yachy offered a great prize for the first child to be born on Mushrat.
He came grinning under his red cap, saying to us, "There are so many dying, should there not
be a prize offered for new life?"

He had learned what manner the woman had of surprising Rainbow Pete. It was a great prize he
offered. When the child was born, he stopped the monkeying with powder in the valley for that
day, though this too was a great loss in money. The woman pleased him.

Then, my friend, on the night of the day when this child was born, Rainbow Pete came back into
the valley. Oh my, it's plain to us, looking at the man under the stars, he has been toughing
it. Ay! His beard was tangled, the great bones were rising on his bare chest, his fingers twitched
as he was drooping over us. Now I'm telling you his eyes were dim, and the sun had bleached
his mustache the color of a lemon. There he stood before us, holding the bag over his shoulder,
while he went scratching his bold nose like the picture of a pirate. Still he was gentle in
the eye; he was mild in misfortune. Oh, this sailorman was just used to toughing it.

Look here, there he stopped, in the shadow of this great rock I'm speaking of, and these men
of Mushrat came asking him if he had made the grade. They were fresh from dipping their carcasses
in champagne. They were sparkling men, not accountable to themselves.

"Have you made the grade?" they went bawling to him. This is to say, had he struck gold?

"Oh, there's gold enough," Pete went rumbling at them, "but it's too far to the North, mate.
There's no taickle made for getting purchase on it."

"So I am thinking," said the little medicine-man, McGregor. "It lies still at the foot of the
rainbow."

"Ay," said Rainbow Pete; but with this word we went thinking of Pal Yachy. Still we did not
speak the name of that Italian. No, this would be stronger in the ear of that sailorman than
gunpowder in the valley.

"Look you here," said Rainbow Pete. "I am starving. I have not eaten in two days. This is the
curse falling on me for hunting gold."

Then they laughed, these mad rockmen, mocking him with their eyes. Their eyes were twitching;
there was powder in the corners of them.

"Are you not master of the eating-place?" they howled at him. "Look, there it stands; is not
your wife alone in it?"

"Oh my, oh my, he stood looking at them with a ghastly face. Disn't he seem the casual man?
It's as if he had forgotten that woman. He had no memories at all.

"My wife," said the rainbow-man.

"Look," said Shoepack Sam--oh, he remembered treason well--"he is forgetful that he has a wife
on Mushrat."

This was so appearedly. There he stood in the blue star-shine, fingering his flute to bring
her back to mind. Now, I thought, he will be asking what description of wife is this answering
to my name on Mushrat? Oh, man is careless in appointing himself among various women.

Now, my friend, Rainbow Pete, blew a note on his flute to settle the thing clear in his mind.
Oh, he was not too brisk in looking up at the black ledge, with the candle in the window. Now
he was taken by the knees. This is not the convenient part of a marriage of convenience. No.
But Shoepack Sam was waving a hand to us to be telling the man nothing of destiny at that moment.

"Come," he said, "the flute is nothing now. There must be more song than this, by what is going
on."

Here he took Rainbow by the elbow, telling him to come and eat at Scarecrow Charlie's, for
he will need his strength.

"I am in charge here for the day," said Shoepack.

"How is this?" said Rainbow, whispering.

They went laughing on all sides of him. Oh the demons, they were cackling while he sat devouring
a great moose joint, until he was close to braining them with the yellow ball of the joint.
He went eating like a timber-wolf from Great Bear.

"This is the palm-tree man," they sang in his ear. "Oh, why is it he grew no cocoanuts stumbling
on that lost trail? Isn't it convenient for the man he is married this night?"

Oh, they were full of mischief with him, remembering the secret face he had for them in the
days of his experiment.

"Drink this," said Shoepack Sam. There he put champagne in a glass before him. Oh, they were
careful of the man.

"Here, take my hand, and let me see if strength is coming back," said Shoepack. "What is a
rainbow without colors?"

Then the little medicine-man took his pulse, kneeling on the floor beside him. Oh, the great
sailor was puzzled. Still he drank what was in the glass before him and after this he put his
mustache into his mouth, sipping it by chance.

"What is this you are preparing?" he said, pointing his bold nose to them. Oh, the eyes were
like a dreamer's: he was a child to appearances.

Then they went speaking to him of the stringed instrument they had heard humming on the ledge,
speaking another language than his own.

"This is a wife to be defended," said Shoepack Sam, padding there with his yellow shoepacks
bringing another drink. But still there was no word of Pal Yachy. That black Italian was not
popular at Throat River.

"Now I see you are speaking of another man," said Rainbow Pete. Then Shoepack Sam went roaring,
it was time for honest men to speak, when an honest woman was being taken by a voice.

"Wait," said Rainbow Pete, with his thumb in the foam, "this is unlikely she will want me cruising
in, with another man singing in her ear."

Oh my, he was a considerate man, he was a natural husband, thinking of his wife's feelings.

"Are you a man?" said Smash McGregor. "Here she has fed you when you were starving--this is
her food you have been eating. Will you pass this ledge, leaving her to fortune?"

Rainbow Pete went putting the edge of the cruiser's ax to his twisted thumb.

"I come to her in my shoes only," he said. "This is not what she will be wanting. I have no gold."

They were shouting to him to have no thought of that, those mad rockmen. There would be gold
in plenty. There would be gold. Only go up on the ledge.

"Heard you nothing of the prize?" they bawled to him, the mischief makers. "Oh, there will
be no lack of money."

"How is this?" said Rainbow Pete. But they would not be answering him. No! No! They went tumbling
him out of Scarecrow Charlie's place, and making for the ledge with him. Oh my, the mystified
man. This was a great shameface he had behind his mustache.

"I am much altered for the worse," he went muttering to us. "She will think nothing of me now."

"There is still time for constancy," said Shoepack Sam. "Do not lose hope."

Then he told them to be quiet, looking up at the dark ledge where the woman lay.

"Old Greyback," said Rainbow Pete, whispering to me, "I am mistrustful of this moment."

"Hist!" said McGregor, "that was the sound of his string. He will be beginning now."

Ay, the voice began. We were wooden men, in rows, listening to this Italian singing here a
golden dream between his teeth.

"Who is this man?" said Rainbow Pete. Heh! Heh! Had he not heard this voice before? We were
dumb. Oh, this was wild, this was sweet, the long cry of the man over the deep valley. He sang
in his throat, saying to the woman there would be no returning. The night was blue. I'm telling
you. He was a cunning beggar, Pal Yachy, for making the stars burn in their sockets.

Now I saw him lift his arm to his head, the wicked sailor, listening to the tune of his enemy.
Ay, this was the man who had fashioned him in the form of a rainbow. Still he did not know
it, dreaming on his feet. He went swaying like a poplar.

Look, I am an old man, but I stood thinking of my airly days. Yes, yes. My brain was heavy.
Oh, it was a sweet dagger here twisting in the soul of man. I went picturing the deep snow
to me, and the dark spruces of the North; oh, the roses are speaking to me again from this
cheek that has been gone from me so long.

Heh! Heh! I should not be speaking of this. It was a sorrowful harp, the voice of that fiend.
It was like the wind following the eddy into Lookout Cavern. Now it went choking that great
sailor at the throat; look, he was mild, he was a simple man for crying. The tears rolled in
his cheek, they sparkled there like the champagne.

Oh my, the song was done.

He was dumb, the great sailor, twisting his mustache.

"Come now," said McGregor, "quick, he will be going into the house."

They were gulls for diving at the ledge; but Rainbow Pete held out his arm, stopping them.

"Stand away," he said, "I will be going into my house with old Greyback here and no other."

This arm was not yet withered he had. No! They stayed in their tracks, as we were going up
the ledge.

The door was open of that house; the stringed instrument was laid against it. Ay, the strings
were humming still, the song was spinning round like a leaf in the cavern of it; but the black
Italian was inside.

Yes, he had gone before into the chamber where she was lying, with his beautiful smile.

The door here was open. Look, by candle-light I saw her lying in a red blanket, staring at
the notable singer. Yes, I saw the bottles containing odors standing in a row. There was scent
in the room. Now she closed her eyes, this prairie woman, lying under him like death. My friend,
there is no doubt she was beautiful upon the pillow without the aid of scented bottles.

Heh! I felt him quiver, this great sailor, when he saw Pal Yachy standing there, but I put
my arms about him whispering to him to wait. It was dark where we were, there was a light from
the stove only.

Oh my, there the dark Italian was glittering and heaving; he went holding in his fist a canvas
sack stamped by the Government, containing the proper weight of gold.

"This is his weight in gold," he said, and there he laid it at her knees. Still her eyes were
closed against that demon of a singer, as he went saying, "But now my dear one, there must
be no more talk of husbands. Ha! ha! they are like smoke, these husbands. When it has drifted,
there must be new fire. So they say in my country."

She lay, not speaking to him, with the sack of gold heavy against her knees.

"Is this plain?" said that Italian. Look now, Rainbow Pete is in his very shadow. Ay, in the
shadow of this man who had fashioned him like a rainbow.

"This is a great sum," said Pal Yachy, never looking behind him. "To this must be added the
silence of one day in the valley."

"The silence," she went whispering, "the silence."

Ha! ha! this was not so dangerous as song. She was leaning on her elbow, clutching the red
blanket to her throat, with her long fingers twisting at the bag. Now my heart stumbled. Oh
now, I thought, the gold is heavy against her; this is a misfortunate time to be forsaking
her husband, isn't it? Look, the shadow was deeper in the cheek of this sailor. He saw nothing,
I fancied, but the gold lying on the blanket.

What next I knew? Here was McGregor in his yellow skull, whispering,

"Is this the gold then at the foot of the rainbow? This is fool's gold where the heart is concerned."

Then, my friend, she threw it clear of the bed. Ay! I heard it falling on the ledge there,
but at this time she did not know that Rainbow Pete was in the room.

When she had thrown it, then she saw him, standing behind that demon of a singer. Her eyes
were strange then. By the expression of her eyes Pal Yachy saw that he was doomed. He was like
a frozen man.

"Wait now," said Rainbow Pete, "am I in my house here?"

"Am I not your wife?" cried the dark woman from Regina.

Oh, the pleasant sailor. The song had touched him.

"Look now," he said to Pal Yachy, "you made a rainbow of me in the beginning. Do you bring
gold here now to plant at my feet, generous man?"

My, my, this fantastic Italian knew that words were wasted now. He was like a snake with his
sting. But Rainbow Pete was not an easy man. He broke the arm with one twist, look, the knife
went spinning on the ledge. And at this moment the blasting in the rock began again below the
ledge. They were at it again, monkeying with powder. Oh, it was death they were speaking to
down there. It was like a battle between giants going on, there were thunders and red gleams
in the black valley; and the candle-flame went shivering with the great noises.

"Here," said Rainbow Pete, "I will scatter you like the rocks of the valley."

Oh, the righteous man. Isn't it a strange consideration, the voice of Pal Yachy moving this
crooked sailor to good deeds? Ay! He was a noble man, hurling the Italian from the house by
his ears. Oh, it's a circumstance to be puzzling over. He threw the gold after him. Ay, the
gold after--like dirt; and here the clothes hung loose on his own body where he had been starving
in the search for bags like that.

Now, as he went kneeling by his wife, he discovered his son, by the crowing under the blanket.

"Look here at the little nipper, old Greyback," he said, "come a little way into the room.
Look now, at the fat back for putting a little palm-tree on, while he is young. This is truth,
old fellow, here is true gold lying at the foot of the rainbow, according to the prophecy."

Our old friend stopped to breathe and blink.

"He had staked this claim but he had never worked it," he said solemnly. But isn't it strange,
the same man who had been fashioning him like a rainbow, should be pointing out the gold to
him. Oh, there's no doubt Pal Yachy was defeated in the end by his own voice--

He went away that night, leaving all to the sub-contractors. Heh! He was not seen on Mushrat
again. Still he had a remarkable voice. Many times afterward I have heard Rainbow Pete playing
on his flute--this is in the evening when the ledge is quiet--but this is not the same thing.
No, no, he could never bewitch her with his music, she must love him for his intention only,
to be charming her. Ay! This is safer.

GET READY THE WREATHS[14]

[Note 14: Copyright, 1917, by The International Magazine Company. Copyright 1918, by Fannie Hurst.]

BY FANNIE HURST

From The Cosmopolitan Magazine

WHERE St. Louis begins to peter out into brick-and limestone-kilns and great scars of unworked
and overworked quarries, the first and more unpretentious of its suburbs take up--Benson, Maplehurst,
and Ridgeway Heights intervening with one-story brick cottages and two-story packing-cases--between
the smoke of the city and the carefully parked Queen Anne quietude of Glenwood and Croton Grove.

Over Benson hangs a white haze of limestone, gritty with train and foundry smoke. At night,
the lime-kilns, spotted with white deposits, burn redly, showing through their open doors like
great, inflamed diphtheretic throats, tongues of flame bursting and licking-out.

Winchester Road, which runs out from the heart of the city to string these towns together,
is paved with brick, and its traffic, for the most part, is the great tin-tired dump-carts
of the quarries and steel interurban electric cars, which hum so heavily that even the windows
of outlying cottages titillate.

For blocks, from Benson to Maplehurst and from Maplehurst to Ridgeway Heights, Winchester Road
repeats itself in terms of the butcher, the baker, the corner saloon. A feed store. A monument-and
stone-cutter. A confectioner. A general-merchandise store, with a glass case of men's collars
outside the entrance. The butcher, the baker, the corner saloon.

At Benson, where this highway cuts through, the city, wreathed in smoke, and a great oceanic
stretch of roofs are in easy view, and at closer range, an outlying section of public asylums
for the city's discard of its debility and its senility.

Jutting a story above the one-storied march of Winchester Road, The Convenience Merchandise
Corner, Benson, overlooks, from the southeast up-stairs window, a remote view of the City Hospital,
the Ferris wheel of an amusement-park, and on clear days, the oceanic waves of roof. Below,
within the store, that view is entirely obliterated by a brace of shelves built across the
corresponding window and brilliantly stacked with ribbons of a score of colors and as many
widths. A considerable flow of daylight thus diverted, The Convenience Merchandise Corner,
even of early afternoon, fades out into half-discernible corners; a rear-wall display of overalls
and striped denim coats crowded back into indefinitude, the haberdashery counter, with a giant
gilt shirt-stud suspended above, hardly more outstanding.

Even the notions and dry-goods, flanking the right wall in stacks and bolts, merge into blur,
the outline of a white-sateen and corseted woman's torso surmounting the top-most of the shelves
with bold curvature.

With spring sunshine even hot against the steel rails of Winchester Road, and awnings drawn
against its inroads into the window display, Mrs. Shila Coblenz, routing gloom, reached up
tiptoe across the haberdashery counter for the suspended chain of a cluster of bulbs, the red
of exertion rising up the taut line of throat and lifted chin.

"A little light on the subject, Milt."

"Let me, Mrs. C."

Facing her from the outer side of the counter, Mr. Milton Bauer stretched also, his well-pressed,
pin-checked coat crawling up.

All things swam out into the glow. The great suspended stud; the background of shelves and
boxes; the scissors-like overalls against the wall; a clothes-line of children's factory-made
print frocks; a center-bin of women's untrimmed hats; a headless dummy beside the door, enveloped
in a long-sleeved gingham apron.

Beneath the dome of the wooden stud, Mrs. Shila Coblenz, of not too fulsome but the hour-glass
proportions of two decades ago, smiled, her black eyes, ever so quick to dart, receding slightly
as the cheeks lifted.

"Two twenty-five, Milt, for those ribbed assorted sizes and reenforced heels. Leave or take.
Bergdorff & Sloan will quote me the whole mill at that price."

With his chest across the counter and legs out violently behind, Mr. Bauer flung up a glance
from his order-pad.

"Have a heart, Mrs. C. I'm getting two forty for that stocking from every house in town. The
factory can't turn out the orders fast enough at that price. An up-to-date woman like you mustn't
make a noise like before the war."

"Leave or take."

"You could shave an egg," he said.

"And rush up those printed lawns. There was two in this morning, sniffing around for spring
dimities."

"Any cotton goods? Next month this time, you'll be paying an advance of four cents on percales."

"Stocked."

"Can't tempt you with them wash silks, Mrs. C.? Neatest little article on the market to-day."

"No demand. They finger it up, and then buy the cotton stuffs. Every time I forget my trade
hacks rock instead of clips bonds for its spending-money, I get stung."

"This here wash silk, Mrs. C., would--"

"Send me up a dress-pattern off this coral-pink sample for Selene."

"This here dark mulberry, Mrs. C., would suit you something immense."

"That'll be about all."

He flopped shut his book, snapping a rubber band about it and inserting it in an inner coat pocket.

"You ought to stick to them dark, winy shades, Mrs. C. With your coloring and black hair and
eyes, they bring you out like a Gipsy. Never seen you look better than at the Y. M. H. A. entertainment."

Quick color flowed down her open throat and into her shirtwaist. It was as if the platitude
merged with the very corpuscles of a blush that sank down into thirsty soil.

"You boys," she said, "come out here and throw in a jolly with every bill of goods. I'll take
a good fat discount instead."

"Fact. Never seen you look better. When you got out on the floor in that stamp-your-foot kind
of dance with old man Shulof, your hand on your hip and your head jerking it up, there wasn't
a girl on the floor, your own daughter included, could touch you, and I'm giving it to you
straight."

"That old thing! It's a Russian folk-dance my mother taught me the first year we were in this
country. I was three years old then, and, when she got just crazy with homesickness, we used
to dance it to each other evenings on the kitchen floor."

"Say, have you heard the news?"

"No."

"Guess."

"Can't."

"Hammerstein is bringing over the crowned heads of Europe for vaudeville."

Mrs. Coblenz moved back a step, her mouth falling open.

"Why--Milton Bauer--in the old country a man could be strung up for saying less than that!"

"That didn't get across. Try another. A Frenchman and his wife were traveling in Russia, and--"

"If--if you had an old mother like mine upstairs, Milton, eating out her heart and her days
and her weeks and her months over a husband's grave somewhere in Siberia and a son's grave
somewhere in Kishinef, you wouldn't see the joke, neither."

Mr. Bauer executed a self-administered pat sharply against the back of his hand.

"Keeper," he said, "put me in the brain-ward. I--I'm sorry, Mrs. C., so help me! Didn't mean
to. How is your mother, Mrs. C.? Seems to me, at the dance the other night, Selene said she
was fine and dandy."

"Selene ain't the best judge of her poor old grandmother. It's hard for a young girl to have
patience for old age sitting and chewing all day over the past. It's right pitiful the way
her grandmother knows it, too, and makes herself talk English all the time to please the child
and tries to perk up for her. Selene, thank God, ain't suffered, and can't sympathize!"

"What's ailing her, Mrs. C.? I kinda miss seeing the old lady sitting down here in the store."

"It's the last year or so, Milt. Just like all of a sudden, a woman as active as mamma always
was, her health and--her mind kind of went off with a pop."

"Thu! Thu!"

"Doctor says with care she can live for years, but--but it seems terrible the way her--poor
mind keeps skipping back. Past all these thirty years in America to--even weeks before I was
born. The night they--took my father off to Siberia, with his bare feet in the snow--for distributing
papers they found on him--papers that used the word 'svoboda'--'freedom.' And the time, ten
years later--they shot down my brother right in front of her for--the same reason. She keeps
living it over--living it over till I--could die."

"Say, ain't that just a shame, though!"

"Living it, and living it, and living it! The night with me, a heavy three-year-old, in her
arms that she got us to the border, dragging a pack of linens with her! The night my father's
feet were bleeding in the snow, when they took him! How with me a kid in the crib, my--my brother's
face was crushed in--with a heel and a spur--all night, sometimes, she cries in her sleep--begging
to go back to find the graves. All day she sits making raffia wreaths to take back--making
wreaths--making wreaths!"

"Say, ain't that tough!"

"It's a godsend she's got the eyes to do it. It's wonderful the way she reads--in English,
too. There ain't a daily she misses. Without them and the wreaths--I dunno--I just dunno. Is--is
it any wonder, Milt, I--I can't see the joke?"

"My God, no!"

"I'll get her back, though."

"Why, you--she can't get back there, Mrs. C."

"There's a way. Nobody can tell me there's not. Before the war--before she got like this, seven
hundred dollars would have done it for both of us--and it will again, after the war. She's
got the bank-book, and every week that I can squeeze out above expenses, she sees the entry
for herself. I'll get her back. There's a way lying around somewhere. God knows why she should
eat out her heart to go back--but she wants it. God, how she wants it!"

"Poor old dame!"

"You boys guy me with my close-fisted buying these last two years. It's up to me, Milt, to
squeeze this old shebang dry. There's not much more than a living in it at best, and now with
Selene grown up and naturally wanting to have it like other girls, it ain't always easy to
see my way clear. But I'll do it, if I got to trust the store for a year to a child like Selene.
I'll get her back."

"You can call on me, Mrs. C., to keep my eye on things while you're gone."

"You boys are one crowd of true blues, all right. There ain't a city salesman comes out here
I wouldn't trust to the limit."

"You just try me out."

"Why, just to show you how a woman don't know many real friends she has got, why--even Mark
Haas, of the Mound City Silk Company, a firm I don't do two hundred dollars' worth of business
with a year, I wish you could have heard him the other night at the Y. M. H. A., a man you
know for yourself just comes here to be sociable with the trade."

"Fine fellow, Mark Haas!"

"'When the time comes, Mrs. Coblenz,' he says, 'that you want to make that trip, just you let
me know. Before the war there wasn't a year I didn't cross the water twice, maybe three times,
for the firm. I don't know there's much I can do; it ain't so easy to arrange for Russia, but,
just the same, you let me know when you're ready to make that trip.' Just like that he said
it. That from Mark Haas!"

"And a man like Haas don't talk that way if he don't mean it."

"Mind you, not a hundred dollars a year business with him. I haven't got the demands for silks."

"That wash silk I'm telling you about though, Mrs. C., does up like a--"

"There's ma thumping with the poker on the upstairs floor. When it's closing-time, she begins
to get restless. I--I wish Selene would come in. She went out with Lester Goldmark in his little
flivver, and I get nervous about automobiles."

Mr. Bauer slid an open-face watch from his waistcoat.

"Good Lord, five-forty, and I've just got time to sell the Maplehurst Emporium a bill of goods!"

"Good-night, Milt; and mind you put up that order of assorted neckwear yourself. Greens in
ready-tieds are good sellers for this time of the year, and put in some reds and purples for
the teamsters."

"No sooner said than done."

"And come out for supper some Sunday night, Milt. It does mamma good to have young people around."

"I'm yours."

"Good-night, Milt."

He reached across the counter, placing his hand over hers.

"Good-night, Mrs. C.," he said, a note lower in his throat; "and remember, that call-on-me
stuff wasn't just conversation."

"Good-night, Milt," said Mrs. Coblenz, a coating of husk over her own voice and sliding her
hand out from beneath, to top his. "You--you're all right!"

* * *

Upstairs, in a too tufted and too crowded room directly over the frontal half of the store,
the window overlooking the remote sea of city was turning taupe, the dusk of early spring,
which is faintly tinged with violet, invading. Beside the stove, a base-burner with faint fire
showing through its mica, the identity of her figure merged with the fat upholstery of the
chair, except where the faint pink through the mica lighted up old flesh, Mrs. Miriam Horowitz,
full of years and senile with them, wove with grasses, the écru of her own skin, wreaths that
had mounted to a great stack in a bedroom cupboard.

A clock, with a little wheeze and burring attached to each chime, rang six, and upon it, Mrs.
Coblenz, breathing from a climb, opened the door.

"Ma, why didn't you rap for Katie to come up and light the gas? You'll ruin your eyes, dearie."

She found out a match, immediately lighting two jets of a center-chandelier, turning them down
from singing, drawing the shades of the two front and the southeast windows, stooping over
the upholstered chair to imprint a light kiss.

"A fine day, mamma. There'll be an entry this week. Fifty dollars and thirteen cents and another
call for garden implements. I think I'll lay in a hardware line after we--we get back. I can
use the lower shelf of the china-table, eh, ma?"

Mrs. Horowitz, whose face, the color of old linen in the yellowing, emerged rather startling
from the still black hair strained back from it, lay back in her chair, turning her profile
against the upholstered back, half a wreath and a trail of raffia sliding to the floor. It
was as if age had sapped from beneath the skin, so that every curve had collapsed to bagginess,
the cheeks and the underchin sagging with too much skin. Even the hands were crinkled like
too large gloves, a wide, curiously etched marriage band hanging loosely from the third finger.

Mrs. Coblenz stooped, recovering the wreath.

"Say, mamma, this one is a beauty! That's a new weave, ain't it? Here, work some more, dearie--till
Selene comes with your evening papers."

With her profile still to the chair-back, a tear oozed down the corrugated surface of Mrs.
Horowitz's cheek. Another.

"Now, mamma! Now, mamma!"

"I got a heaviness--here--inside. I got a heaviness--"

Mrs. Coblenz slid down to her knees beside the chair.

"Now, mamma; shame on my little mamma! Is that the way to act when Shila comes up after a good
day? Ain't we got just lots to be thankful for, the business growing and the bank-book growing,
and our Selene on top? Shame on mamma!"

"I got a heaviness--here--inside--here."

Mrs. Coblenz reached up for the old hand, patting it.

"It's nothing, mamma--a little nervousness."

"I'm an old woman. I--"

"And just think, Shila's mamma, Mark Haas is going to get us letters and passports and--"

"My son--my boy--his father before him--"

"Mamma--mamma, please don't let a spell come on! It's all right. Shila's going to fix it. Any
day now, maybe--"

"You'm a good girl. You'm a good girl, Shila." Tears were coursing down to a mouth that was
constantly wry with the taste of them.

"And you're a good mother, mamma. Nobody knows better than me how good."

"You'm a good girl, Shila."

"I was thinking last night, mamma, waiting up for Selene--just thinking how all the good you've
done ought to keep your mind off the spells, dearie."

"My son--"

"Why, a woman with as much good to remember as you've got oughtn't to have time for spells.
I got to thinking about Coblenz to-day, mamma, how--you never did want him, and when I--I went
and did it anyway, and made my mistake, you stood by me to--to the day he died. Never throwing
anything up to me! Never nothing but my good little mother, working her hands to the bone after
he got us out here to help meet the debts he left us. Ain't that a satisfaction for you to
be able to sit and think, mamma, how you helped--"

"His feet--blood from my heart in the snow--blood from my heart!"

"The past is gone, darling. What's the use tearing yourself to pieces with it? Them years in
New York, when it was a fight even for bread, and them years here trying to raise Selene and
get the business on a footing, you didn't have time to brood then, mamma. That's why, dearie,
if only you'll keep yourself busy with something--the wreaths--the--"

"His feet--blood from my--"

"But I'm going to take you back, mamma. To papa's grave. To Aylorff's. But don't eat your heart
out until it comes, darling. I'm going to take you back, mamma, with every wreath in the stack;
only, you mustn't eat out your heart in spells. You mustn't, mamma; you mustn't."

Sobs rumbled up through Mrs. Horowitz, which her hand to her mouth tried to constrict.

"For his people he died. The papers--I begged he should burn them--he couldn't--I begged he
should keep in his hate--he couldn't--in the square he talked it--the soldiers--he died for
his people--they got him--the soldiers--his feet in the snow when they took him--the blood
in the snow--O my God--my--God!"

"Mamma, darling, please don't go over it all again. What's the use making yourself sick? Please!"

She was well forward in her chair now, winding her dry hands one over the other with a small
rotary motion.

"I was rocking--Shila-baby in my lap--stirring on the fire black lentils for my boy--black
lentils--he--"

"Mamma!"

"My boy. Like his father before him. My--"

"Mamma, please! Selene is coming any minute now. You know how she hates it. Don't let yourself
think back, mamma. A little will-power, the doctor says, is all you need. Think of to-morrow,
mamma; maybe, if you want, you can come down and sit in the store awhile and--"

"I was rocking. O my God, I was rocking, and--"

"Don't get to it--mamma, please! Don't rock yourself that way! You'll get yourself dizzy. Don't,
ma; don't!"

"Outside--my boy--the holler--O God, in my ears all my life! My boy--the papers--the swords--Aylorff--Aylorff--"

"Shh-h-h--mamma--"

"It came through his heart out the back--a blade with two sides--out the back when I opened
the door--the spur in his face when he fell--Shila--the spur in his face--the beautiful face
of my boy--my Aylorff--my husband before him--that died to make free!" And fell back, bathed
in the sweat of the terrific hiccoughing of sobs.

"Mamma, mamma--my God! What shall we do? These spells! You'll kill yourself, darling. I'm going
to take you back, dearie--ain't that enough? I promise. I promise. You mustn't, mamma! These
spells--- they ain't good for a young girl like Selene to hear. Mamma, ain't you got your own
Shila--your own Selene? Ain't that something? Ain't it? Ain't it?"

Large drops of sweat had come out and a state of exhaustion that swept completely over, prostrating
the huddled form in the chair.

With her arms twined about the immediately supporting form of her daughter, her entire weight
relaxed, and footsteps that dragged without lift, one after the other, Mrs. Horowitz groped
out, one hand feeling in advance, into the gloom of a room adjoining.

"Rest! O my God, rest!"

"Yes, yes, mamma; lean on me."

"My--bed."

"Yes, yes, darling."

"Bed."

Her voice had died now to a whimper that lay on the room after she had passed out of it.

* * *

When Selene Coblenz, with a gust that swept the room, sucking the lace curtains back against
the panes, flung open the door upon that chromatic scene, the two jets of gas were singing
softly into its silence, and, within the nickel-trimmed base-burner, the pink mica had cooled
to gray. Sweeping open that door, she closed it softly, standing for the moment against it,
her hand crossed in back and on the knob. It was as if standing there with her head cocked
and beneath a shadowy blue sailor-hat, a smile coming out, something within her was playing,
sweetly insistent to be heard. Philomela, at the first sound of her nightingale self, must
have stood thus, trembling with melody. Opposite her, above the crowded mantelpiece and surmounted
by a raffia wreath, the enlarged-crayon gaze of her deceased maternal grandparent, abetted
by a horrible device of photography, followed her, his eyes focusing the entire room at a glance.
Impervious to that scrutiny, Miss Coblenz moved a tiptoe step or two further into the room,
lifting off her hat, staring and smiling through a three-shelved cabinet of knick-knacks at
what she saw far beyond. Beneath the two jets, high lights in her hair came out, bronze showing
through the brown waves and the patches of curls brought out over her cheeks.

In her dark-blue dress with the row of silver buttons down what was hip before the hipless
age, the chest sufficiently concave and the silhouette a mere stroke of hard pencil, Miss Selene
Coblenz measured up and down to America's Venus de Milo, whose chief curvature is of the spine.
Slim-etched, and that slimness enhanced by a conscious kind of collapse beneath the blue-silk
girdle that reached up halfway to her throat, hers were those proportions which strong women,
eschewing the sweetmeat, would earn by the sweat of the Turkish bath.

When Miss Coblenz caught her eye in the square of mirror above the mantelpiece, her hands flew
to her cheeks to feel of their redness. They were soft cheeks, smooth with the pollen of youth,
and hands still casing them, she moved another step toward the portièred door.

"Mamma!"

Mrs. Coblenz emerged immediately, finger up for silence, kissing her daughter on the little
spray of cheek-curls.

"Shh-h-h! Gramaw just had a terrible spell."

She dropped down into the upholstered chair beside the base-burner, the pink and moisture of
exertion out in her face, took to fanning herself with the end of a face-towel flung across
her arm.

"Poor gramaw!" she said. "Poor gramaw!"

Miss Coblenz sat down on the edge of a slim, home-gilded chair, and took to gathering the blue-silk
dress into little plaits at her knee.

"Of course--if you don't want to know where I've been--or anything--"

Mrs. Coblenz jerked herself to the moment.

"Did mamma's girl have a good time? Look at your dress all dusty! You oughtn't to wear you
best in that little flivver."

Suddenly Miss Coblenz raised her eyes, her red mouth bunched, her eyes all iris.

"Of course--if you don't want to know--anything."

At that large, brilliant gaze, Mrs. Coblenz leaned forward, quickened.

"Why, Selene!"

"Well, why--why don't you ask me something?"

"Why I--I dunno, honey, did--did you and Lester have a nice ride?"

There hung a slight pause, and then a swift moving and crumpling-up of Miss Coblenz on the
floor beside her mother's knee.

"You know--only, you won't ask."

With her hand light upon her daughter's hair, Mrs. Coblenz leaned forward, her bosom rising
to faster breathing.

"Why--Selene--I why--"

"We--we were speeding along and--all of a sudden--out of a clear sky--he--he popped. He wants
it in June--so we can make it our honeymoon to his new territory out in Oklahoma. He knew he
was going to pop, he said, ever since the first night he saw me at the Y. M. H. A. He says
to his uncle Mark, the very next day in the store, he says to him, 'Uncle Mark,' he says, 'I've
met the little girl.' He says he thinks more of my little finger than all of his regular crowd
of girls in town put together. He wants to live in one of the built-in-bed flats on Wasserman
Avenue, like all the swell young marrieds. He's making twenty-six hundred now, mamma, and if
he makes good in the new Oklahoma territory, his uncle Mark is--is going to take care of him
better. Ain't it like a dream, mamma--your little Selene all of a sudden in with--the somebodys?"

Immediately tears were already finding staggering procession down Mrs. Coblenz' face, her hovering
arms completely encircling the slight figure at her feet.

"My little girl! My little Selene! My all!"

"I'll be marrying into one of the best families in town, ma. A girl who marries a nephew of
Mark Haas can hold up her head with the best of them. There's not a boy in town with a better
future than Lester. Like Lester says, everything his uncle Mark touches turns to gold, and
he's already touched Lester. One of the best known men on Washington Avenue for his blood-uncle,
and on his poor dead father's side related to the Katz & Harberger Harbergers. Was I right,
mamma, when I said if you'd only let me stop school, I'd show you? Was I right, momsie?"

"My baby! It's like I can't realize it. So young!"

"He took the measure of my finger, mamma, with a piece of string. A diamond, he says, not too
flashy, but neat."

"We have 'em, and we suffer for 'em, and we lose 'em."

"He's going to trade in the flivver for a chummy roadster, and--"

"Oh, darling, it's like I can't bear it!"

At that, Miss Coblenz sat back on her tall wooden heels, mauve spats crinkling.

"Well, you're a merry little future mother-in-law, momsie."

"It ain't that, baby. I'm happy that my girl has got herself up in the world with a fine upright
boy like Lester; only--you can't understand, babe, till you've got something of your own flesh
and blood that belongs to you, that I--I couldn't feel anything except that a piece of my heart
was going if--if it was a king you was marrying."

"Now, momsie, it's not like I was moving a thousand miles away. You can be glad I don't have
to go far, to New York or to Cleveland, like Alma Yawitz."

"I am! I am!"

"Uncle--Uncle Mark, I guess, will furnish us up like he did Leon and Irma--only, I don't want
mahogany--I want Circassian walnut. He gave them their flat-silver, too, Puritan design, for
an engagement present. Think of it, mamma, me having that stuck-up Irma Sinsheimer for a relation!
It always made her sore when I got chums with Amy at school and got my nose in it with the
Acme crowd, and--and she'll change her tune now, I guess, me marrying her husband's second cousin."

"Didn't Lester want to--to come in for a while, Selene, to--to see--me?"

Sitting there on her heels, Miss Coblenz looked away, answering with her face in profile.

"Yes; only--I--well if you want to know it, mamma, it's no fun for a girl to bring a boy like
Lester up here in--in this crazy room all hung up with gramaw's wreaths and half the time her
sitting out there in the dark looking in at us through the door and talking to herself."

"Gramaw's an old--"

"Is--it any wonder I'm down at Amy's half the time. How--do you think a girl feels to have
gramaw keep hanging onto that old black wig of hers and not letting me take the crayons or
wreaths down off the wall. In Lester's crowd, they don't know--nothing about Revolutionary
stuff and--and persecutions. Amy's grandmother don't even talk with an accent, and Lester says
his grandmother came from Alsace-Lorraine. That's French. They think only tailors and old-clothes
men and--"

"Selene!"

"Well, they do. You--you're all right, mamma, as up to date as any of them, but how do you
think a girl feels with gramaw always harping right in front of everybody the--the way granpa
was a revolutionist and was--was hustled off barefooted to Siberia like--like a tramp. And
the way she was cooking black beans when--my uncle--died. Other girls' grandmothers don't tell
everything they know. Alma Yawitz's grandmother wears lorgnettes, and you told me yourself
they came from nearly the same part of the Pale as gramaw. But you don't hear them remembering
it. Alma Yawitz says she's Alsace-Lorraine on both sides. People don't--tell everything they
know. Anyway--where a girl's got herself as far as I have."

Through sobs that rocked her, Mrs. Coblenz looked down upon her daughter.

"Your poor old grandmother don't deserve that from you! In her day, she worked her hands to
the bone for you. With--the kind of father you had, we--we might have died in the gutter but--for
how she helped to keep us out, you ungrateful girl--your poor old grandmother that's suffered
so terrible!"

"I know it, mamma, but so have other people suffered."

"She's old, Selene--old."

"I tell you it's the way you indulge her, mamma. I've seen her sitting here as perk as you
please, and the minute you come in the room, down goes her head like--like she was dying."

"It's her mind, Selene--that's going. That's why I feel if I could only get her back. She ain't
old, gramaw ain't. If I could only get her back where she--could see for herself--the graves--is
all she needs. All old people think of--the grave. It's eating her--eating her mind. Mark Haas
is going to fix it for me after the war--maybe before--if he can. That's the only way poor
gramaw can live--or die--happy, Selene. Now--now that my--my little girl ain't any longer my
responsibility, I--I'm going to take her back--my little--girl"--her hand reached out, caressing
the smooth head, her face projected forward and the eyes yearning down--"my all."

"It's you will be my responsibility now, ma."

"No! No!"

"The first thing Lester says was a flat on Wasserman and a spare room for mother Coblenz when
she wants to come down. Wasn't it sweet for him to put it that way right off, ma. 'Mother Coblenz,'
he says."

"He's a good boy, Selene. It'll be a proud day for me and gramaw. Gramaw mustn't miss none
of it. He's a good boy and a fine family."

"That's why, mamma, we--got to--to do it up right."

"Lester knows, child, he's not marrying a rich girl."

"A girl don't have to--be rich to get married right."

"You'll have as good as mamma can afford to give it to her girl."

"It--it would be different if Lester's uncle and all wasn't in the Acme Club crowd, and if
I hadn't got in with all that bunch. It's the last expense I'll ever be to you, mamma."

"Oh, baby, don't say that!"

"I--me and Lester--Lester and me were talking, mamma--when the engagement's announced next
week--a reception--"

"We can clear out this room, move the bed out of gramaw's room into ours, and serve the ice-cream
and cake in--"

"Oh, mamma, I don't mean--that!"

"What?"

"Who ever heard of having a reception here! People won't come from town way out to this old--cabbage
patch. Even Gertie Wolf with their big house on West Pine Boulevard had her reception at the
Walsingham Hotel. You--we--can't expect Mark Haas and all the relations--the Sinsheimers--and--all
to come out here. I'd rather not have any."

"But, Selene, everybody knows we ain't millionaires, and that you got in with that crowd through
being friends at school with Amy Rosen. All the city salesmen and the boys on Washington Avenue,
even Mark Haas himself, that time he was in the store with Lester, knows the way we live. You
don't need to be ashamed of your little home, Selene, even if it ain't on West Pine Boulevard."

"It'll be--your last expense, mamma. The Walsingham, that's where the girl that Lester Goldmark
marries is expected to have her reception."

"But, Selene, mamma can't afford nothing like that."

Pink swam up into Miss Coblenz's face, and above the sheer-white collar there was a little
beating movement at the throat, as if something were fluttering within.

"I--I'd just as soon not get married as--as not to have it like other girls."

"But, Selene--"

"If I--can't have a trousseau like other girls and the things that go with marrying into a--a
family like Lester's--I--then--there's no use. I--I can't! I--wouldn't!"

She was fumbling now for a handkerchief against tears that were imminent.

"Why, baby, a girl couldn't have a finer trousseau than the old linens back yet from Russia
that me and gramaw got saved up for our girl--linen that can't be bought these days. Bed-sheets
that gramaw herself carried to the border, and--"

"Oh, I know. I knew you'd try to dump that stuff on me. That old worm-eaten stuff in gramaw's
chest."

"It's hand-woven, Selene, with--"

"I wouldn't have that yellow old stuff--that old-fashioned junk--if I didn't have any trousseau.
If I can't afford monogrammed up-to-date linens, like even Alma Yawitz, and a--a pussy-willow-taffeta
reception dress, I wouldn't have any. I wouldn't." Her voice crowded with passion and tears
rose to the crest of a sob. "I--I'd die first!"

"Selene, Selene, mamma ain't got the money. If she had it, wouldn't she be willing to take
the very last penny to give her girl the kind of a wedding she wants? A trousseau like Alma's
cost a thousand dollars if it cost a cent. Her table-napkins alone they say cost thirty-six
dollars a dozen, unmonogrammed. A reception at the Walsingham costs two hundred dollars if
it costs a cent. Selene, mamma will make for you every sacrifice she can afford, but she ain't
got the money."

"You--have got the money!"

"So help me God, Selene! You know, with the quarries shut down, what business has been. You
know how--sometimes even to make ends meet, it is a pinch. You're an ungrateful girl, Selene,
to ask what I ain't able to do for you. A child like you that's been indulged, that I ain't
even asked ever in her life to help a day down in the store. If I had the money, God knows
you should be married in real lace, with the finest trousseau a girl ever had. But I ain't
got the money--I ain't got the money."

"You have got the money! The book in gramaw's drawer is seven hundred and forty. I guess I
ain't blind. I know a thing or two."

"Why Selene--that's gramaw's--to go back--"

"You mean the bank-book's hers?"

"That's gramaw's to go back--home on. That's the money for me to take gramaw and her wreaths
back home on."

"There you go--talking loony."

"Selene!"

"Well, I'd like to know what else you'd call it, kidding yourself along like that."

"You--"

"All right. If you think gramaw, with her life all lived, comes first before me, with all my
life to live--all right!"

"Your poor old--"

"It's always been gramaw first in this house, anyway. I couldn't even have company since I'm
grown up because the way she's always allowed around. Nobody can say I ain't good to gramaw;
Lester say it's beautiful the way I am with her, remembering always to bring the newspapers
and all, but just the same I know when right's right and wrong's wrong. If my life ain't more
important than gramaw's, with hers all lived, all right. Go ahead!"

"Selene, Selene, ain't it coming to gramaw, after all her years' hard work helping us that--she
should be entitled to go back with her wreaths for the graves? Ain't she entitled to die with
that off her poor old mind? You bad, ungrateful girl, you, it's coming to a poor old woman
that's suffered as terrible as gramaw that I should find a way to take her back."

"Take her back. Where--to jail? To prison in Siberia herself--"

"There's a way--"

"You know gramaw's too old to take a trip like that. You know in your own heart she won't ever
see that day. Even before the war, much less now, there wasn't a chance for her to get passports
back there. I don't say it ain't all right to kid her along, but when it comes to--to keeping
me out of the--the biggest thing that can happen to a girl--when gramaw wouldn't know the difference
if you keep showing her the bank-book--it ain't right. That's what it ain't. It ain't right!"

In the smallest possible compass, Miss Coblenz crouched now upon the floor, head down somewhere
in her knees, and her curving back racked with rising sobs.

"Selene--but some day--"

"Some day nothing! A woman like gramaw can't do much more than go down-town once a year, and
then you talk about taking her to Russia! You can't get in there, I--tell you--no way you try
to fix it after--the way gramaw--had--to leave. Even before the war, Ray Letsky's father couldn't
get back on business. There's nothing for her there even after she gets there. In thirty years
do you think you can find those graves? Do you know the size of Siberia? No! But I got to pay--I
got to pay for gramaw's nonsense. But I won't. I won't go to Lester, if I can't go right. I--"

"Baby, don't cry so--for God's sake don't cry so!

"I wish I was dead."

"Sh-h-h--you'll wake gramaw."

"I do!"

"O God, help me to do the right thing!"

"If gramaw could understand, she'd be the first one to tell you the right thing. Anybody would."

"No! No! That little bank-book and its entries are her life--her life."

"She don't need to know, mamma. I'm not asking that. That's the way they always do with old
people to keep them satisfied. Just humor 'em. Ain't I the one with life before me--ain't I,
mamma?"

"O God, show me the way!"

"If there was a chance, you think I'd be spoiling things for gramaw? But there ain't, mamma--not
one."

"I keep hoping if not before, then after the war. With the help of Mark Haas--"

"With the book in her drawer like always, and the entries changed once in a while, she'll never
know the difference. I swear to God she'll never know the difference, mamma!"

"Poor gramaw!"

"Mamma, promise me--your little Selene. Promise me?"

"Selene, Selene, can we keep it from her?"

"I swear we can, mamma."

"Poor, poor gramaw!"

"Mamma? Mamma darling?"

"O God, show me the way!"

"Ain't it me that's got life before me? My whole life?"

"Yes--Selene."

"Then, mamma, please--you will--you will--darling?"

"Yes, Selene."

* * *

In a large, all-frescoed, seventy-five dollars an evening with lights and cloak-room service
ballroom of the Hotel Walsingham, a family hostelry in that family circle of St. Louis known
as its West End, the city holds not a few of its charity-whists and benefit musicales; on a
dais which can be carried in for the purpose, morning readings of "Little Moments from Little
Plays," and with the introduction of a throne-chair, the monthly lodge-meetings of the Lady
Mahadharatas of America. For weddings and receptions, a lane of red carpet leads up to the
slight dais; and, lined about the brocade and paneled walls, gilt-and-brocade chairs, with
the crest of Walsingham in padded embroidery on the backs. Crystal chandeliers, icicles of
dripping light, glow down upon a scene of parquet floor, draped velours, and mirrors wreathed
in gilt.

At Miss Selene Coblenz's engagement reception, an event properly festooned with smilax and
properly jostled with the elbowing figures of waiters tilting their plates of dark-meat chicken
salad, two olives, and a finger-roll in among the crowd, a stringed three-piece orchestra,
faintly seen and still more faintly heard, played into the babel.

Light, glitteringly filtered through the glass prisms, flowed down upon the dais; upon Miss
Selene Coblenz, in a taffeta that wrapped her flat waist and chest like a calyx and suddenly
bloomed into the full inverted petals of a skirt; upon Mr. Lester Goldmark, his long body barely
knitted yet to man's estate, and his complexion almost clear, standing omnivorous, omnipotent,
omnipresent, his hair so well brushed that it lay like black japanning, a white carnation at
his silk lapel, and his smile slightly projected by a rush of very white teeth to the very
front. Next in line, Mrs. Coblenz, the red of a fervent moment high in her face, beneath the
maroon-net bodice the swell of her bosom fast, and her white-gloved hands constantly at the
opening and shutting of a lace-and-spangled fan. Back, and well out of the picture, a potted
hydrangea beside the Louis Quinze armchair, her hands in silk mitts laid out along the gold-chair
sides, her head quavering in a kind of mild palsy, Mrs. Miriam Horowitz, smiling and quivering
her state of bewilderment.

With an unfailing propensity to lay hold of to whomsoever he spake, Mr. Lester Goldmark placed
his white-gloved hand upon the white-gloved arm of Mrs. Coblenz.

"Say, mother Coblenz, ain't it about time this little girl of mine was resting her pink-satin
double A's? She's been on duty up here from four to seven. No wonder uncle Mark bucked."

Mrs. Coblenz threw her glance out over the crowded room, surging with a wave of plumes and
clipped heads like a swaying bucket of water which crowds but does not lap over its sides.

"I guess the crowd is finished coming in by now. You tired, Selene?"

Miss Coblenz turned her glowing glance.

"Tired! This is the swellest engagement-party I ever had."

Mrs. Coblenz shifted her weight from one slipper to the other, her maroon-net skirts lying
in a swirl around them.

"Just look at gramaw, too! She holds up her head with the best of them. I wouldn't have had
her miss this, not for the world."

"Sure one fine old lady! Ought to have seen her shake my hand, mother Coblenz. I nearly had
to holler, 'Ouch!'"

"Mamma, here comes Sara Suss and her mother. Take my arm, Lester honey. People mamma used to
know." Miss Coblenz leaned forward beyond the dais with the frail curve of a reed.

"Howdado, Mrs. Suss.... Thank you. Thanks. Howdado, Sara. Meet my fiancé, Lester Haas Goldmark;
Mrs. Suss and Sara Suss, my fiancé.... That's right; better late than never. There's plenty
left.... We think he is, Mrs. Suss. Aw, Lester honey, quit! Mamma, here's Mrs. Suss and Sadie."

"Mrs. Suss! Say--if you hadn't come, I was going to lay it up against you. If my new ones can
come on a day like this, it's a pity my old friends can't come, too.

"Well, Sadie, it's your turn next, eh?... I know better than that. With them pink cheeks and
black eyes, I wish I had a dime for every chance." (Sotto.) "Do you like it, Mrs. Suss? Pussy-willow
taffeta.... Say, it ought to be. An estimate dress from Madame Murphy--sixty-five with findings.
I'm so mad, Sara, you and your mamma couldn't come to the house that night to see her things.
If I say so myself, Mrs. Suss, everybody who seen it says Jacob Sinsheimer's daughter herself
didn't have a finer. Maybe not so much, but every stitch, Mrs. Suss, made by the same sisters
in the same convent that made hers.... Towels! I tell her it's a shame to expose them to the
light, much less wipe on them. Ain't it?... The goodness looks out from his face. And such
a love-pair! Lunatics, I call them. He can't keep his hands off. It ain't nice, I tell him....
Me? Come close. I dyed the net myself. Ten cents' worth of maroon color. Don't it warm your
heart, Mrs. Suss? This morning, after we got her in Lester's uncle Mark's big automobile, I
says to her, I says, 'Mamma, you sure it ain't too much.' Like her old self for a minute, Mrs.
Suss, she hit me on the arm. 'Go 'way,' she said, 'on my grandchild's engagement-day anything
should be too much? Here, waiter, get these two ladies some salad. Good measure, too. Over
there by the window, Mrs. Suss. Help yourselves."

"Mamma, sh-h-h, the waiters know what to do."

Mrs. Coblenz turned back, the flush warm to her face.

"Say, for an old friend, I can be my own self."

"Can we break the receiving-line now, Lester honey, and go down with everybody? The Sinsheimers
and their crowd over there by themselves, we ought to show we appreciate their coming."

Mr. Goldmark twisted high in his collar, cupping her small bare elbow in his hand.

"That's what I say, lovey; let's break. Come, mother Coblenz, let's step down on high society's
corns."

"Lester!"

"You and Selene go down with the crowd, Lester. I want to take gramaw to rest for a while before
we go home. The manager says we can have room fifty-six by the elevator for her to rest in."

"Get her some newspapers, ma, and I brought her a wreath down to keep her quiet. It's wrapped
in her shawl."

Her skirts delicately lifted, Miss Coblenz stepped down off the dais. With her cloud of gauze
scarf enveloping her, she was like a tulle-clouded "Springtime," done in the key of Botticelli.

"Oop-si-lah, lovey-dovey!" said Mr. Goldmark, tilting her elbow for the downward step.

"Oop-si-lay, dovey-lovey!" said Miss Coblenz, relaxing to the support.

Gathering up her plentiful skirts, Mrs. Coblenz stepped off, too, but back toward the secluded
chair beside the potted hydrangea. A fine line of pain, like a cord tightening, was binding
her head, and she put up two fingers to each temple, pressing down the throb.

"Mrs. Coblenz, see what I got for you!" She turned, smiling. "You don't look like you need
salad and green ice-cream. You look like you needed what I wanted--a cup of coffee."

"Aw, Mr. Haas--now where in the world--aw, Mr. Haas!"

With a steaming cup outheld and carefully out of collision with the crowd, Mr. Haas unflapped
a napkin with his free hand, inserting his foot in the rung of a chair and dragging it toward her.

"Now," he cried, "sit and watch me take care of you!"

There comes a tide in the affairs of men when the years lap softly, leaving no particular inundations
on the celebrated sands of time. Between forty and fifty, that span of years which begin the
first slight gradations from the apex of life, the gray hair, upstanding like a thick-bristled
brush off Mr. Haas's brow, had not so much as whitened, or the slight paunchiness enhanced
even the moving-over of a button. When Mr. Haas smiled, his mustache, which ended in a slight
but not waxed flourish, lifted to reveal a white-and-gold smile of the artistry of careful
dentistry, and when, upon occasion, he threw back his head to laugh, the roof of his mouth
was his own.

He smiled now, peering through gold-rimmed spectacles attached by a chain to a wire-encircled
left ear.

"Sit," he cried, "and let me serve you!"

Standing there with a diffidence which she could not crowd down, Mrs. Coblenz smiled through
closed lips that would pull at the corners.

"The idea, Mr. Haas--going to all that trouble!"

"'Trouble,' she says! After two hours hand-shaking in a swallowtail, a man knows what real
trouble is!"

She stirred around and around the cup, supping up spoonfuls gratefully.

"I'm sure much obliged. It touches the right spot."

He pressed her down to the chair, seating himself on the low edge of the dais.

"Now you sit right here and rest your bones."

"But my mother, Mr. Haas. Before it's time for the ride home, she must rest in a quiet place."

"My car'll be here and waiting five minutes after I telephone."

"You--sure have been grand, Mr. Haas!"

"I shouldn't be grand yet to my--let's see what relation is it I am to you?"

"Honest, you're a case, Mr. Haas--always making fun!"

"My poor dead sister's son marries your daughter. That makes you my--nothing-in-law."

"Honest, Mr. Haas, if I was around you, I'd get fat laughing."

"I wish you was."

"Selene would have fits. 'Never get fat, mamma,' she says, 'if you don't want----'"

"I don't mean that."

"What?"

"I mean I wish you was around me."

She struck him then with her fan, but the color rose up into the mound of her carefully piled hair.

"I always say I can see where Lester gets his comical ways. Like his uncle, that boy keeps
us all laughing."

"Gad, look at her blush! I know women your age would give fifty dollars a blush to do it that way."

She was looking away again, shoulders heaving to silent laughter, the blush still stinging.

"It's been so--so long, Mr. Haas, since I had compliments made to me--you make me feel so--silly."

"I know it, you nice, fine woman, you, and it's a darn shame!"

"Mr.--Haas!"

"I mean it. I hate to see a fine woman not get her dues. Anyways, when she's the finest woman
of them all!"

"I--the woman that lives to see a day like this--her daughter the happiest girl in the world
with the finest boy in the world--is getting her dues all right, Mr. Haas."

"She's a fine girl, but she ain't worth her mother's little finger nail."

"Mr.--Haas!"

"No, sir-ee!"

"I must be going now, Mr. Haas--my mother--"

"That's right. The minute a man tries to break the ice with this little lady, it's a freeze-out.
Now, what did I say so bad? In business, too. Never seen the like. It's like trying to swat
a fly to come down on you at the right minute. But now, with you for a nothing-in-law, I got
rights."

"If--you ain't the limit, Mr. Haas!"

"Don't mind saying it, Mrs. C., and, for a bachelor, they tell me I'm not the worst judge in
the world, but there's not a woman on the floor stacks up like you do."

"Well--of all things!"

"Mean it."

"My mother, Mr. Haas, she--"

"And if anybody should ask you if I've got you on my mind or not, well I've already got the
letters out on that little matter of the passports you spoke to me about. If there's a way
to fix that up for you, and leave it to me to find it, I--"

She sprang now, trembling, to her feet, all the red of the moment receding.

"Mr. Haas, I--I must go now. My--mother--"

He took her arm, winding her in and out among crowded-out chairs behind the dais.

"I wish it to every mother to have a daughter like you, Mrs. C."

"No! No!" she said, stumbling rather wildly through the chairs. "No! No! No!"

He forged ahead, clearing her path of them.

Beside the potted hydrangea, well back and yet within an easy view, Mrs. Horowitz, her gilt
armchair well cushioned for the occasion, and her black grenadine spread decently about her,
looked out upon the scene, her slightly palsied head well forward.

"Mamma, you got enough? You wouldn't have missed it, eh? A crowd of people we can be proud
to entertain, not? Come; sit quiet in another room for a while, and then Mr. Haas, with his
nice big car, will drive us all home again. You know Mr. Haas, dearie--Lester's uncle that
had us drove so careful in his fine big car. You remember, dearie--Lester's uncle?"

Mrs. Horowitz looked up, her old face cracking to smile.

"My grandchild! My grandchild! She'm a fine one. Not? My grandchild! My grandchild!"

"You--mustn't mind, Mr. Haas. That's--the way she's done since--since she's--sick. Keeps repeating--"

"My grandchild! From a good mother and a bad father comes a good grandchild. My grandchild!
She'm a good one. My--"

"Mamma, dearie, Mr. Haas is in a hurry. He's come to help me walk you into a little room to
rest before we go home in Mr. Haas's big fine auto. Where you can go and rest, mamma, and read
the newspapers. Come."

"My back--ach--my back!"

"Yes, yes, mamma; we'll fix it. Up! So--la!"

They raised her by the crook of each arm, gently.

"So! Please, Mr. Haas, the pillows. Shawl. There!"

Around a rear hallway, they were almost immediately into a blank, staring hotel bedroom, fresh
towels on the furniture-tops only enhancing its staleness.

"Here we are. Sit her here, Mr. Haas, in this rocker."

They lowered her almost inch by inch, sliding down pillows against the chair-back.

"Now, Shila's little mamma, want to sleep?"

"I got--no rest--no rest."

"You're too excited, honey, that's all."

"No rest."

"Here--here's a brand-new hotel Bible on the table, dearie. Shall Shila read it to you?"

"Aylorff--"

"Now, now, mamma. Now, now; you mustn't! Didn't you promise Shila? Look! See, here's a wreath
wrapped in your shawl for Shila's little mamma to work on. Plenty of wreaths for us to take
back. Work awhile, dearie, and then we'll get Selene and Lester, and, after all the nice company
goes away, we'll go home in the auto."

"I begged he should keep in his hate--his feet in the----"

"I know! The papers. That's what little mamma wants. Mr. Haas, that's what she likes better
than anything--the evening papers."

"I'll go down and send 'em right up with a boy, and telephone for the car. The crowd's beginning
to pour out now. Just hold your horses there, Mrs. C., and I'll have those papers up here in
a jiffy."

He was already closing the door after him, letting in and shutting out a flare of music.

"See, mamma, nice Mr. Haas is getting us the papers. Nice evening papers for Shila's mamma."
She leaned down into the recesses of the black grenadine, withdrawing from one of the pockets
a pair of silver-rimmed spectacles, adjusting them with some difficulty to the nodding head.
"Shila's--little mamma! Shila's mamma!"

"Aylorff, the littlest wreath for--Aylorff--Meine Kräntze--"

"Yes, yes."

"Mein Mann. Mein Sühn."

"Ssh-h-h, dearie!"

"Aylorff--der klenste Kranz far ihm!"

"Ssh-h-h, dearie--talk English, like Selene wants. Wait till we get on the ship--the beautiful
ship to take us back. Mamma, see out the window! Look! That's the beautiful Forest Park, and
this is the fine Hotel Walsingham just across--see out--Selene is going to have a flat on--"

"Sey hoben gestorben far Freiheit. Sey hoben--"

"There, that's the papers!"

To a succession of quick knocks, she flew to the door, returning with the folded evening editions
under her arm.

"Now," she cried, unfolding and inserting the first of them into the quivering hands, "now,
a shawl over my little mamma's knees and we're fixed!"

With a series of rapid movements, she flung open one of the black-cashmere shawls across the
bed, folding it back into a triangle. Beside the table, bare except for the formal, unthumbed
Bible, Mrs. Horowitz rattled out her paper, her near-sighted eyes traveling back and forth
across the page.

Music from the ferned-in orchestra came in drifts, faint, not so faint. From somewhere, then
immediately from everywhere, beyond, below, without, the fast shouts of newsboys mingling.

Suddenly and of her own volition, and with a cry that shot up through the room, rending it
like a gash, Mrs. Horowitz, who moved by inches, sprang to her supreme height, her arms, the
crooks forced out, flung up.

"My darlings--what died--for it! My darlings what died for it--my darlings--Aylorff--my husband!"
There was a wail rose up off her words, like the smoke of incense curling, circling around
her. "My darlings what died to make free!"

"Mamma--darling--mamma--Mr. Haas! Help! Mamma! My God!"

"Aylorff--my husband--I paid with my blood to make free--my blood--my son--my--own--" Immovable
there, her arms flung up and tears so heavy that they rolled whole from her face down to the
black grenadine, she was as sonorous as the tragic meter of an Alexandrian line; she was like
Ruth, ancestress of heroes and progenitor of kings. "My boy--my own--they died for it! Mein
Mann! Mein Sühn!"

On her knees, frantic to press her down once more into the chair, terrified at the rigid immobility
of the upright figure, Mrs. Coblenz paused then, too, her clasp falling away, and leaned forward
to the open sheet of the newspaper, its black headlines facing her:

RUSSIA FREE

BANS DOWN 100,000 SIBERIAN PRISONERS LIBERATED

In her ears a ringing silence, as if a great steel disk had clattered down into the depths
of her consciousness. There on her knees, trembling seized her, and she hugged herself against
it, leaning forward to corroborate her gaze.

MOST RIGID AUTOCRACY IN THE WORLD OVERTHROWN

RUSSIA REJOICES

"Mamma! Mamma! My God, Mamma!"

"Home, Shila; home! My husband who died for it--Aylorff! Home now, quick! My wreaths! My wreaths!"

"O my God, Mamma!"

"Home!"

"Yes--darling--yes--"

"My wreaths!"

"Yes, yes, darling; your wreaths. Let--let me think. Freedom!--O my God, help me to find a
way! O my God!"

"My wreaths!"

"Here--darling--here!"

From the floor beside her, the raffia wreath half in the making, Mrs. Coblenz reached up, pressing
it flat to the heaving old bosom.

"There, darling, there!"

"I paid with my blood--"

"Yes, yes, mamma; you--paid with your blood. Mamma--sit, please. Sit and--let's try to think.
Take it slow, darling--it's like we can't take it in all at once. I--we--sit down, darling.
You'll make yourself terrible sick. Sit down, darling, you--you're slipping."

"My wreaths--"

Heavily, the arm at the waist gently sustaining, Mrs. Horowitz sank rather softly down, her
eyelids fluttering for the moment. A smile had come out on her face, and, as her head sank
back against the rest, the eyes resting at the downward flutter, she gave out a long breath,
not taking it in again.

"Mamma! You're fainting!" She leaned to her, shaking the relaxed figure by the elbows, her
face almost touching the tallowlike one with the smile lying so deeply into it. "Mamma! My
God, darling, wake up! I'll take you back. I'll find a way to take you. I'm a bad girl, darling,
but I'll find a way to take you. I'll take you if--if I kill for it. I promise before God I'll
take you. To-morrow--now--nobody can keep me from taking you. The wreaths, mamma! Get ready
the wreaths! Mamma, darling, wake up. Get ready the wreaths! The wreaths!" Shaking at that
quiet form, sobs that were full of voice, tearing raw from her throat, she fell to kissing
the sunken face, enclosing it, stroking it, holding her streaming gaze closely and burningly
against the closed lids. "Mamma, I swear to God I'll take you! Answer me, mamma! The bank-book--you've
got it! Why don't you wake up--mamma? Help!"

Upon that scene, the quiet of the room so raucously lacerated, burst Mr. Haas, too breathless
for voice.

"Mr. Haas my mother--help--my mother! It's a faint, ain't it? A faint?"

He was beside her at two bounds, feeling of the limp wrists, laying his ear to the grenadine
bosom, lifting the reluctant lids, touching the flesh that yielded so to touch.

"It's a faint, ain't it, Mr. Haas? Tell her I'll take her back. Wake her up, Mr. Haas! Tell
her I'm a bad girl, but I--I'm going to take her back. Now! Tell her! Tell her, Mr. Haas, I've
got the bank-book. Please! Please! O my God!"

He turned to her, his face working to keep down compassion.

"We must get a doctor, little lady."

She threw out an arm.

"No! No! I see! My old mother--my old mother--all her life a nobody--she helped--she gave it
to them--my mother--a poor little widow nobody--she bought with her blood that freedom--she--"

"God, I just heard it downstairs--it's the tenth wonder of the world. It's too big to take
in. I was afraid--"

"Mamma darling, I tell you, wake up! I'm a bad girl, but I'll take you back. Tell her, Mr.
Haas, I'll take her back. Wake up, darling! I swear to God--I'll take you!"

"Mrs. Coblenz, my--poor little lady--your mother don't need you to take her back. She's gone
back where--where she wants to be. Look at her face, little lady; can't you see she's gone back?"

"No! No! Let me go. Let me touch her. No! No! Mamma darling!"

"Why, there wasn't a way, little lady, you could have fixed it for that poor--old body. She's
beyond any of the poor fixings we could do for her. You never saw her face like that before. Look!"

"The wreaths--- the wreaths!"

He picked up the raffia circle, placing it back again against the quiet bosom.

"Poor little lady!" he said. "Shila--that's left for us to do. You and me, Shila--we'll take
the wreaths back for her."

"My darling--my darling mother! I'll take them back for you! I'll take them back for you!"

"We'll take them back for her--Shila."

"I'll--"

"We'll take them back for her--Shila."

"We'll take them back for you, mamma. We'll take them back for you, darling!"

THE STRANGE-LOOKING MAN[15]

[Note 15: Copyright, 1917, by The Pagan Publishing Company. Copyright, 1918, by Fanny Kemble
Johnson.]

BY FANNY KEMBLE JOHNSON

From The Pagan

A TINY village lay among the mountains of a country from which for four years the men had gone
forth to fight. First the best men had gone, then the older men, then the youths, and lastly
the school boys. It will be seen that no men could have been left in the village except the
very aged, and the bodily incapacitated, who soon died, owing to the war policy of the Government
which was to let the useless perish that there might be more food for the useful.

Now it chanced that while all the men went away, save those left to die of slow starvation,
only a few returned, and these few were crippled and disfigured in various ways. One young
man had only part of a face, and had to wear a painted tin mask, like a holiday-maker. Another
had two legs but no arms, and another two arms but no legs. One man could scarcely be looked
at by his own mother, having had his eyes burned out of his head until he stared like Death.
One had neither arms nor legs, and was mad of his misery besides, and lay all day in a cradle
like a baby. And there was a quite old man who strangled night and day from having sucked in
poison-gas; and another, a mere boy, who shook, like a leaf in a high wind, from shell-shock,
and screamed at a sound. And he too had lost a hand, and part of his face, though not enough
to warrant the expense of a mask for him.

All these men, except he who had been crazed by horror of himself, had been furnished with
ingenious appliances to enable them to be partly self-supporting, and to earn enough to pay
their share of the taxes which burdened their defeated nation.

To go through that village after the war was something like going through a life-sized toy-village
with all the mechanical figures wound up and clicking. Only instead of the figures being new,
and gay, and pretty, they were battered and grotesque and inhuman.

There would be the windmill, and the smithy, and the public house. There would be the row of
cottages, the village church, the sparkling waterfall, the parti-colored fields spread out
like bright kerchiefs on the hillsides, the parading fowl, the goats and cows,--though not
many of these last. There would be the women, and with them some children; very few, however,
for the women had been getting reasonable, and were now refusing to have sons who might one
day be sent back to them limbless and mad, to be rocked in cradles--for many years, perhaps.

Still the younger women, softer creatures of impulse, had borne a child or two. One of these,
born the second year of the war, was a very blonde and bullet-headed rascal of three, with
a bullying air, and of a roving disposition. But such traits appear engaging in children of
sufficiently tender years, and he was a sort of village plaything, here, there, and everywhere,
on the most familiar terms with the wrecks of the war which the Government of that country
had made.

He tried on the tin mask and played with the baker's mechanical leg, so indulgent were they
of his caprices; and it amused him excessively to rock the cradle of the man who had no limbs,
and who was his father.

In and out he ran, and was humored to his bent. To one he seemed the son he had lost, to another
the son he might have had, had the world gone differently. To others he served as a brief escape
from the shadow of a future without hope; to others yet, the diversion of an hour. This last
was especially true of the blind man who sat at the door of his old mother's cottage binding
brooms. The presence of the child seemed to him like a warm ray of sunshine falling across
his hand, and he would lure him to linger by letting him try on the great blue goggles which
he found it best to wear in public. But no disfigurement or deformity appeared to frighten
the little fellow. These had been his playthings from earliest infancy.

One morning, his mother, being busy washing clothes, had left him alone, confident that he
would soon seek out some friendly fragment of soldier, and entertain himself till noon and
hunger-time. But occasionally children have odd notions, and do the exact opposite of what
one supposes.

On this brilliant summer morning the child fancied a solitary ramble along the bank of the
mountain-stream. Vaguely he meant to seek a pool higher up, and to cast stones in it. He wandered
slowly straying now and then into small valleys, or chasing wayside ducks. It was past ten
before he gained the green-gleaming and foam-whitened pool, sunk in the shadow of a tall gray
rock over whose flat top three pine-trees swayed in the fresh breeze. Under them, looking to
the child like a white cloud in a green sky, stood a beautiful young man, poised on the sheer
brink for a dive. A single instant he stood there, clad only in shadow and sunshine, the next
he had dived so expertly that he scarcely splashed up the water around him. Then his dark,
dripping head rose in sight, his glittering arm thrust up, and he swam vigorously to shore.
He climbed the rock for another dive. These actions he repeated in pure sport and joy in life
so often that his little spectator became dizzy with watching.

At length he had enough of it and stooped for his discarded garments. These he carried to a
more sheltered spot and rapidly put on, the child still wide-eyed and wondering, for indeed
he had much to occupy his attention.

He had two arms, two legs, a whole face with eyes, nose, mouth, chin, and ears, complete. He
could see, for he had glanced about him as he dressed. He could speak, for he sang loudly.
He could hear, for he had turned quickly at the whir of pigeon-wings behind him. His skin was
smooth all over, and nowhere on it were the dark scarlet maps which the child found so interesting
on the arms, face, and breast of the burned man. He did not strangle every little while, or
shiver madly, and scream at a sound. It was truly inexplicable, and therefore terrifying.

The child was beginning to whimper, to tremble, to look wildly about for his mother, when the
young man observed him.

"Hullo!" he cried eagerly, "if it isn't a child!"

He came forward across the foot-bridge with a most ingratiating smile, for this was the first
time that day he had seen a child and he had been thinking it remarkable that there should
be so few children in a valley, where, when he had travelled that way five years before, there
had been so many he had scarcely been able to find pennies for them. So he cried "Hullo," quite
joyously, and searched in his pockets.

But, to his amazement, the bullet-headed little blond boy screamed out in terror, and fled
for protection into the arms of a hurriedly approaching young woman. She embraced him with
evident relief, and was lavishing on him terms of scolding and endearment in the same breath,
when the traveler came up, looking as if his feelings were hurt.

"I assure you, Madam," said he, "that I only meant to give your little boy these pennies."
He examined himself with an air of wonder. "What on earth is there about me to frighten a child?"
he queried plaintively.

The young peasant-woman smiled indulgently on them both, on the child now sobbing, his face
buried in her skirt, and on the boyish, perplexed, and beautiful young man.

"It is because he finds the Herr Traveler so strange-looking," she said, curtsying. "He is
quite small," she showed his smallness with a gesture, "and it is the first time he has even
seen a whole man."

THE CALLER IN THE NIGHT[16]

[Note 16: Copyright, 1917, by The Stratford Journal. Copyright, 1918, by Burton Kline.]

BY BURTON KLINE

From The Stratford Journal

BY the side of a road which wanders in company of a stream across a region of Pennsylvania
farmland that is called "Paradise" because of its beauty, you may still mark the ruins of a
small brick cabin in the depths of a grove. In summertime ivy drapes its jagged fragments and
the pile might be lost to notice but that at dusk the trembling leaves of the vine have a way
of whispering to the nerves of your horse and setting them too in a tremble. And the people
in the village beyond have a belief that three troubled human beings lie buried under those
ruins, and that at night, or in a storm, they sometimes cry aloud in their unrest.

The village is Bustlebury, and its people have a legend that on a memorable night there was
once disclosed to a former inhabitant the secret of that ivied sepulchre.

* * *

All the afternoon the two young women had chattered in the parlor, cooled by the shade of the
portico, and lost to the heat of the day, to the few sounds of the village, to the passing
hours themselves. Then of a sudden Mrs. Pollard was recalled to herself at the necessity of
closing her front windows against a gust of wind that blew the curtains, like flapping flags,
into the room.

"Sallie, we're going to get it again," she said, pausing for a glance at the horizon before
she lowered the sash.

"Get what?" Her visitor walked to the other front window and stooped to peer out.

Early evening clouds were drawing a black cap over the fair face of the land.

"I think we're going to have some more of Old Screamer Moll this evening. I knew we should,
after this hot--"

"There! Margie, that was the expression I've been trying to remember all afternoon. You used
it this morning. Where did you get such a poetic nickname for a thunder--O-oh!"

For a second, noon had returned to the two women. From their feet two long streaks of black
shadow darted back into the room, and vanished. Overhead an octopus of lightning snatched the
whole heavens in its grasp, shook them, and disappeared.

The two women screamed, and threw themselves on the sofa. Yet in a minute it was clear that
the world still rolled on, and each looked at the other and laughed at her fright--till the
prospect of an evening of storm sobered them both.

"Mercy!" Mrs. Pollard breathed in discouragement. "We're in for another night of it. We've
had this sort of thing for a week. And to-night of all nights, when I wanted you to see this
wonderful country under the moon!"

Mrs. Pollard, followed by her guest, Mrs. Reeves, ventured to the window timidly again, to
challenge what part of the sky they could see from under the great portico outside, and learn
its portent for the night.

An evil visage it wore--a swift change from a noon-day of beaming calm. Now it was curtained
completely with blue-black cloud, which sent out mutterings, and then long brooding silences
more ominous still in their very concealment of the night's intentions.

There was no defence against it but to draw down the blinds and shut out this angry gloom in
the glow of the lamps within. And, with a half hour of such glow to cozen them, the two women
were soon merry again over their reminiscences, Mrs. Pollard at her embroidery, Mrs. Reeves
at the piano, strumming something from Chopin in the intervals of their chatter.

"The girl" fetched them their tea. "Five already!" Mrs. Pollard verified the punctuality of
her servant with a glance at the clock. "Then John will be away for another night. I do hope
he won't try to get back this time. Night before last he left his assistant with a case, and
raced his horse ten miles in the dead of the night to get home," Mrs. Pollard proudly reported,
"for fear I'd be afraid in the storm."

"And married four years!" Mrs. Reeves smilingly shook her head in indulgence of such long-lived
romance.

In the midst of their cakes and tea the bell announced an impatient hand at the door.

"Well, 'speak of angels!'" Mrs. Pollard quoted, and flew to greet her husband. But she opened
the door upon smiling old Mr. Barber, instead, from the precincts across the village street.

Mr. Barber seemed to be embarrassed. "I--I rather thought you mought be wanting something,"
he said in words. By intention he was making apology for the night. "I saw the doctor drive
away, but I haven't seen him come back. So I--I thought I'd just run over and see--see if there
wasn't something you wanted." He laughed uneasily.

Mr. Barber's transparent diplomacy having been rewarded with tea, they all came at once to
direct speech. "It ain't going to amount to much," Mr. Barber insisted. "Better come out, you
ladies, and have a look around. It may rain a bit, but you'll feel easier if you come and get
acquainted with things, so to say." And gathering their resolution the two women followed him
out on the portico.

They shuddered at what they saw.

Night was at hand, two hours before its time. Nothing stirred, not a vocal chord of hungry,
puzzled, frightened chicken or cow. The whole region seemed to have caught its breath, to be
smothered under a pall of stillness, unbroken except for some occasional distant earthquake
of thunder from the inverted Switzerland of cloud that hung pendant from the sky.

Mr. Barber's emotions finally ordered themselves into speech as he watched. "Ain't it grand!"
he said.

The two women made no reply. They sat on the steps to the portico, their arms entwined. The
scene beat their more sophisticated intelligences back into silence. Some minutes they all
sat there together, and then again Mr. Barber broke the spell.

"It do look fearful, like. But you needn't be afraid. It's better to be friends with it, you
might say. And then go to bed and fergit it."

They thanked him for his goodness, bade him good-by, and he clinked down the flags of the walk
and started across the street.

He had got midway across when they all heard a startling sound, an unearthly cry.

It came out of the distance, and struck the stillness like a blow.

"What is it? What is it, Margie?" Mrs. Reeves whispered excitedly.

Faint and quavering at its beginning, the cry grew louder and more shrill, and then died away,
as the breath that made it ebbed and was spent. It seemed as if this unusual night had found
at last a voice suited to its mood. Twice the cry was given, and then all was still as before.

At its first notes the muscles in Mrs. Pollard's arm had tightened. But Mr. Barber had hastened
back at once with reassurance.

"I guess Mrs. Pollard knows what that is," he called to them from the gate. "It's only our
old friend Moll, that lives down there in the notch. She gets lonesome, every thunderstorm,
and let's it off like that. It's only her rheumatiz, I reckon. We wouldn't feel easy ourselves
without them few kind words from old Moll!"

The two women applauded as they could his effort toward humor. Then, "Come on, Sallie, quick!"
Mrs. Pollard cried to her guest, and the two women bolted up the steps of the portico and flew
like girls through the door, which they quickly locked between themselves and the disquieting
night.

Once safe within, relief from their nerves came at the simple effort of laughter, and an hour
later, when it was clear that the stars still held to their courses, the two ladies were at
their ease again, beneath the lamp on the table, with speech and conversation to provide an
escape from thought. The night seemed to cool its high temper as the hours wore on, and gradually
the storm allowed itself to be forgotten.

Together, at bed time, the two made their tour of the house, locking the windows and doors,
and visiting the pantry on the way for an apple. Outside all was truly calm and still, as,
with mock and exaggerated caution, they peered through one last open window. A periodic, lazy
flash from the far distance was all that the sky could muster of its earlier wrath. And they
tripped upstairs and to bed, with that hilarity which always attends the feminine pursuit of
repose.

* * *

But in the night they were awakened.

Not for nothing, after all, had the skies marshalled that afternoon array of their forces.
Now they were as terribly vociferous as they had been terrifyingly still before. Leaves, that
had drooped melancholy and motionless in the afternoon, were whipped from their branches at
the snatch of the wind. The rain came down in a solid cataract. The thunder was a steady bombardment,
and the frolic powers above, that had toyed and practised with soundless flashes in the afternoon,
had grown wanton at their sport, and hurled their electric shots at earth in appallingly accurate
marksmanship. Between the flashes from the sky, the steady glare of a burning barn here and
there reddened the blackness. The village dead, under the pelted sod, must have shuddered at
the din. Even the moments of lull were saturate with terrors. In them rose audible the roar
of waters, the clatter of frightened animals, the rattle of gates, the shouts of voices, the
click of heels on the flags of the streets, as the villagers hurried to the succor of neighbors
fighting fires out on the hills. For long afterward the tempest of that night was remembered.
For hours while it lasted, trees were toppled over, and houses rocked to the blast.

And for as long as it would, the rain beat in through an open window and wetted the two women
where they lay in their bed, afraid to stir, even to help themselves, gripped in a paralysis
of terror.

Their nerves were not the more disposed to peace, either, by another token of the storm. All
through the night, since their waking, in moments of stillness sufficient for it to be heard,
they had caught that cry of the late afternoon. Doggedly it asserted itself against the uproar.
It insisted upon being heard. It too wished to shriek relievingly, like the inanimate night,
and publish its sickness abroad. They heard it far off, at first. But it moved, and came nearer.
Once the two women quaked when it came to them, shrill and clear, from a point close at hand.
But they bore its invasion along with the wind and the rain, and lay shameless and numb in
the rude arms of the night.

They lay so till deliverance from the hideous spell came at last, in a vigorous pounding at
the front door.

"It's John!" Mrs. Pollard cried in her joy. "And through such a storm!"

She slipped from the bed, threw a damp blanket about her, and groped her way out of the room
and down the stair, her guest stumbling after. They scarcely could fly fast enough down the
dark steps. At the bottom Mrs. Pollard turned brighter the dimly burning entry lamp, shot back
the bolt with fingers barely able to grasp it in their eagerness, and threw open the door.

"John!" she cried.

But there moved into the house the tall and thin but heavily framed figure of an old woman,
who peered about in confusion.

In a flash of recognition Mrs. Pollard hurled herself against the intruder to thrust her out.

"No!" the woman said. "No, you will not, on such a night!" And the apparition herself, looking
with feverish curiosity at her unwilling hostesses, slowly closed the door and leaned against it.

Mrs. Pollard and her friend turned to fly, in a mad instinct to be anywhere behind a locked
door. Yet before the instinct could reach their muscles, the unbidden visitor stopped them again.

"No!" she said. "I am dying. Help me!"

The two women turned, as if hypnotically obedient to her command. Their tongues lay thick and
dead in their mouths. They fell into each other's arms, and their caller stood looking them
over, with the same fevered curiosity. Then she turned her deliberate scrutiny to the house itself.

In a moment she almost reassured them with a first token of being human and feminine. On the
table by the stairs lay a book, and she went and picked it up. "Fine!" she mused. Then her
eye travelled over the pictures on the walls. "Fine!" she said. "So this is the inside of a
fine house!" But suddenly, as her peering gaze returned to the two women, she was recalled
to herself. "But you wanted to put me out--on a night like this! Hear it!"

For a moment she looked at them in frank hatred. And on an impulse she revenged herself upon
them by sounding, in their very ears, the shrill cry they had heard in the afternoon, and through
the night, that had mystified the villagers for years from the grove. The house rang with it,
and with the hard peal of laughter that finished it.

All three of them stood there, for an instant, viewing each other. But at the end of it the
weakest of them was the partly sibylline, partly mountebank intruder. She swayed back against
the wall. Her head rolled limply to one side, and she moaned, "O God, how tired I am to-night!"

Frightened as they still were, their runaway hearts beating a tattoo that was almost audible,
the two other women made a move to support her. But she waved them back with a suddenly returning
air of command. "No!" she said. "You wanted to put me out!"

The creature wore some sort of thin skirt whose color had vanished in the blue-black of its
wetness. Over her head and shoulders was thrown a ragged piece of shawl. From under it dangled
strands of grizzled gray hair. Her dark eyes were hidden in the shadows of her impromptu hood.
The hollows of her cheeks looked deeper in its shadows.

She loosed the shawl from her head, and it dropped to the floor, disclosing a face like one
of the Fates. She folded her arms, and there was a rude majesty in the massive figure and its
bearing as she tried to command herself and speak.

"I come here--in this storm. Hear it! Hear that! I want shelter. I want comfort. And what do
you say to me!... Well, then I take comfort from you. You thought I was your husband. You called
his name. Well, I saw him this afternoon. He drove out. I called to him from the roadside.
'Let me tell your fortune! Only fifty cent!' But he whipped up his horse and drove away. You
are all alike. But I see him now--in Woodman's Narrows. It rains there, same as here. Thunder
and lightning, same as here. Trees fall. The wind blows. The wind blows!"

The woman had tilted her head and fixed her eyes, shining and eager, as if on some invisible
scene, and she half intoned her words as if in a trance.

"I see your husband now. His wagon is smashed by a tree. The horse is dead. Your husband lies
very still. He does not move. There!"--she turned to them alert again to their presence--"there
is the husband that you want. If you don't believe me, all I say is, wait! He is there. You
will see!"

She ended in a peal of laughter, which itself ended in a weary moan. "Oh, why can't you help
me!" She came toward them, her arms outstretched. "Don't be afraid of me. I want a woman to
know me--to comfort me. I die to-night. It's calling me, outside. Don't you hear?...

"Listen to me, you women!" she went on, and tried to smile, to gain their favor. "I lied to
you, to get even with you. You want your husband. Well, I lied. He isn't dead. For all you
tried to shut me out. Do you never pity? Do you never help? O-oh--"

Her hand traveled over her brow, and her eyes wandered.

"No one knows what I need now! I got to tell it, I got to tell it! Hear that?" There had been
a louder and nearer crash outside. "That's my warning. That says I got to tell it, before it's
too late. No storm like this for forty years--not since one night forty years ago. My God,
that night!" Another heavy rumble interrupted her. "Yes, yes!" she turned and called. "I'll
tell it! I promise!"

She came toward her audience and said pleadingly, "Listen--even if it frightens you. You've
got to listen. That night, forty years ago"--she peered about her cautiously--"I think--I think
I hurt two people--hurt them very bad. And ever since that night--"

The two women had once again tried to fly away, but again she halted them. "Listen! You have
no right to run away. You got to comfort me! You hear? Please, please, don't go."

She smiled, and so seemed less ugly. What could her two auditors do but cling to each other
and hear her through, dumb and helpless beneath her spell?

"Only wait. I'll tell you quickly. Oh, I was not always like this. Once I could talk--elegant
too. I've almost forgotten now. But I never looked like this then. I was not always ugly--no
teeth--gray hair. Once I was beautiful too. You laugh? But yes! Ah, I was young, and tall,
and had long black hair. I was Mollie, then. Mollie Morgan. That's the first time I've said
my name for years. But that's who I was. Ask Bruce--he knows."

She had fallen back against the wall again, her eyes roaming as she remembered. Here she laughed.
"But Bruce is dead these many years. He was my dog." A long pause. "We played together. Among
the flowers--in the pretty cottage--under the vines. Not far from here. But all gone now, all
gone. Even the woods are gone--the woods where Bruce and I hunted berries. And my mother!"

Again the restless hands sought the face and covered it.

"My mother! Almost as young as I. And how she could talk! A fine lady. As fine as you. And
oh, we had good times together. Nearly always. Sometimes mother got angry--in a rage. She'd
strike me, and say I was an idiot like my father. The next minute she'd hug me, and cry, and
beg me to forgive her. It all comes back to me. Those were the days when she'd bake a cake
for supper--the days when she cried, and put on a black dress. But mostly she wore the fine
dresses--all bright, and soft, and full of flowers. Oh, how she would dance about in those,
sometimes. And always laughed when I stared at her. And say I was Ned's girl to my finger-tips.
I never understood what she meant--then."

The shrill speaker of a moment before had softened suddenly. The creature of the woods sniffed
eagerly this atmosphere of the house, and faint vestiges of a former personage returned to
her, summoned along with the scene she had set herself to recall.

"But oh, how good she was to me! And read to me. And taught me to read. And careful of me?
Ha! Never let me go alone to the village. Said I was too good for such a place. Some day we
would go back to the world--whatever she meant by that. Said people there would clap the hands
when they saw me--more than they had clapped the hands for her. Once she saw a young man walk
along the road with me. Oh, how she beat my head when I came home! Nearly killed me, she was
so angry. Said I mustn't waste myself on such trash. My mother--I never understood her then.

"She used to tell me stories--about New York, and Phil'delph. Many big cities. There they applaud,
and clap the hands, when my mother was a queen, or a beggar girl, in the theatre, and make
love and kill and fight. Have grand supper in hotel afterward. And I'd ask my mother how soon
I too may be a queen. And she'd give me to learn the words they say, and I'd say them. Then
she'd clap me on the head again and tell me, 'Oh, you're Ned's girl. You're a blockhead, just
like your father!' And I'd say, 'Where is my father? Why does he never come?' And after that
my mother would always sit quiet, and never answer when I talked.

"And then she'd be kind again, and make me proud, and tell me I'm a very fine lady, and have
fine blood. And she'd talk about the day when we'd go back to the world, and she'd buy me pretty
things to wear. But I thought it was fine where we were--there in the cottage, I with the flowers,
and Bruce. In those days, yes," the woman sighed, and left them to silence for a space,--for
silent seemed the wind and rain, on the breaking of her speech.

A rumble from without started her on again.

"Yes, yes! I'm telling! I'll hurry. Then I grow big. Seventeen. My mother call me her little
giantess, her handsome darling, her conceited fool, all at the same time. I never understood
my mother--then.

"But then, one day, it came!"

The woman pressed her fingers against her eyes, as if to shut out the vision her mind was preparing.

"Everything changed then. Everything was different. No more nights with stories and books.
No more about New York and Phil'delph. Never again.

"I was out in the yard one day, on my knees, with the flowers. It was Springtime, and I was
digging and fixing. And I heard a horse's hoofs on the road. A runaway, I thought at first.
I stood up to look, and--" She faltered, and then choked out, "I stood up to look, and the
man came!" And with the words came a crash that rocked the house.

"Hear that!" the woman almost shrieked. "That's him--that's the man. I hear him in every storm!...

"He came," she went, more rapidly. "A tall man--fine--dressed in fine clothes--brown hair--brown
eyes! Oh, I often see those brown eyes. I know what they are like. He came riding along the
bye-road. When he caught sight of my mother he almost fell from his horse. The horse nearly
fell, the man pulled him in so sharp. 'Good God!' the man said. 'Fanny! Is this where you are!
Curse you, old girl, is this where you are!' Funny, how I remember his words. And then he came in.

"And he talked to my mother a long time. Then he looked round and said, 'So this is where you've
crawled to!' And he petted Bruce. And then he came to me, and looked into my face a long time,
and said, 'So this is his girl, eh? Fanny junior, down to the last eyelash! Come here, puss!'
he said. And I made a face at him. And he put his hands to his sides and laughed and laughed
at me. And he turned to my mother and said, 'Fanny, Fanny, what a queen!' I thought he meant
be a queen in the theatre. But he meant something else. He came to me again, and squeezed me
and pressed his face against mine. And my mother ran and snatched him away. And I ran behind
the house.

"And by-and-by my mother came to find me, and said, 'Oho, my little giantess! So here you are!
What are you trembling for!' And she kicked me. 'Take that!' she said.

"And I didn't understand--not then. But I understand now.

"Next day the man came again, and talked to my mother. But I saw him look and look at me. And
by-and-by he reached for my hand. And my mother said, 'Stop that! None of that, my little George!
One at a time, if you please!' And he laughed and let me go. And they went out and sat on a
bench in the yard. And the man stroked my mother's hair. And I watched and listened. They talked
a long time till it was night. And I heard George say, 'Well, Fanny, old girl, we did for him,
all right, didn't we?' I've always remembered it. And they laughed and they laughed. Then the
man said, 'God, how it does scare me, sometimes!' And my mother laughed at him for that. And
George said, 'Look what I've had to give up. And you penned up here! But never mind. It will
blow over. Then we'll crawl back to the old world, eh, Fanny?'"

All this the woman had rattled off like a child with a recitation, as something learned long
ago and long rehearsed against just this last contingency of confession.

"Oh, I remember it!" she said, as if her volubility needed an explanation. "It took me a long
time to understand. But one day I understood.

"He came often, then--George did. And I was not afraid of him any more. He was fine, like my
mother. Every time I saw him come my stomach would give a jump. And I liked to have him put
his face against mine, the way I'd seen him do to mother. And every time he went away I'd watch
him from the hilltop till I couldn't see him any more. And at night I couldn't sleep. And George
came very often--to see me, he told me, and not my mother.

"And my mother was changed then. She never hit me again, because George said he'd kill her
if she did. But she acted very strange when he told her that, and looked and looked at me.
And didn't speak to me for days and days. But I didn't mind--I could talk to George. And we'd
go for long walks, and he'd tell me more about New York and Phil'delph--more than my mother
could tell. Oh, I loved to hear him talk. And he said such nice things to me--such nice things
to me! Bruce--I forgot all about Bruce. Oh, I was happy!... But that was because I knew nothing....

"Yes, I pleased George. But by-and-by he changed too. Then I couldn't say anything that he
liked. 'Stupid child!' he called me. I tried, ever so hard, to please him. But it was like
walking against a wind, that you can't push aside. You women, you just guess how I felt then!
You just guess! You want your husband. It was the same with me. I want George. But he wouldn't
listen to me no more."

The woman seemed to sink, to shrivel, under the weight of her recollection. Finding her not
a monster but a woman after all, her two hearers were moved to another slight token of sympathy.
They were "guessing," as she commanded. But still, with a kind of weary magnanimity, she waved
them back, away from the things she had yet to make clear.

"But one day I saw it. One day I saw something. I came home with my berries, and George was
there. His breath was funny, and he talked funny, and walked funny. I'd seen people in the
village that way. But--my mother was that way, too. She looked funny--had very red cheeks,
and talked very fast. Very foolish. And her breath was the same as George's. And she laughed
and laughed at me, and made fun of me.

"I said nothing. But I didn't sleep that night. I wondered what would happen. Many days I thought
of what was happening. Then I knew. My mother was trying to get George away from me. That was
what had happened.

"Another day I came back with my berries, and my mother was not there. Neither was George there.
So! She had taken George away. My George. Well! I set out to look. No rest for me till I find
them. I knew pretty well where they might be. I started for George's little brick house down
in the hollow. That's where he had taken to living--hunting and fishing. It was late--the brick
house was far away--I was very tired. But I went. And--"

She had been speaking more rapidly. Here she stopped to breathe, to swallow, to collect herself
for the final plunge.

"I heard a runaway horse. 'George's horse!' I said. 'George is coming back to me, after all!
George is coming back to me! She can't keep him!' And, yes, it was George's horse. But nobody
on him. I was so scared I could hardly stand. Something had happened to George. Only then did
I know how much I wanted him--when something had happened to him. I almost fell down in the
road, but I crawled on. And presently I came to him, to George. He was walking in the road,
limping and stumbling and rolling--all muddy--singing to himself. He didn't know me at first.
I ran to him--to my George. And he grabbed me, and stumbled, and fell. And he grabbed my ankle.
'Come to me, li'l' one!' he said. 'Damn the old hag!' he said. 'It's the girl I want--Ned's
own!' he said. 'Come here to me, Ned's own. I want you!' And he pinched me. He bit my hand.
And--and I--all of a sudden I was afraid.

"And I snatched myself loose. 'George!' I screamed. 'No!' I said--I don't know why. I was very
scared. I was wild. I kicked away--and ran--ran, ran--away--I don't know where--to the woods.
And oh, a long time I heard George laugh at me. 'Just like the very old Ned!' I heard him shout.
But I ran, till I fell down tired. And there I sat and thought.

"And all of a sudden I understood. All at once I knew many things. I knew then what my mother
had said about Ned sometimes. He was my father. He was dead. Somebody had killed him, I knew--I
knew it from what they said. George knew my father, then, too. What did he know? That was it!
He--he was the man that killed my father. He was after my mother then--he had been after her
before, and made her breathe funny, made a fool of her. That was why my beautiful mother was
so strange to me sometimes. That's why there was no more New York and Phil'delph. George did
that--spoiled everything. Now he was back--making a fool of her again--my mother! And wanted
to make a fool of me. Oh, then I knew! That man! And I had liked him. His brown hair, his brown
eyes! But oh, I understood, I understood.

"I got up from the ground. Everything reeled and fell apart. There was nothing more for me.
Everything spoiled. Our pretty cottage--the stories--all gone. Spoiled. So I ran back. Maybe
I could bring my mother back. Maybe I could save something. Oh, I was sick. The trees, they
bent and rolled the way George walked. The wind bent them double. They held their stomachs,
as if they were George, laughing at me. They seemed to holler 'Ned's girl!' at me. I was dizzy,
and the wind nearly blew me over. But I had to hurry home.

"I got near. No one there. Not even George. But I had to find my beautiful little mother. All
round I ran. The brambles threw me down. I fell over a stump and struck my face. I could feel
the blood running down over my cheeks. It was warmer than the rain. No matter, I had to find
my mother. My poor little mother.

"Bruce growled at me when I got to the house. He didn't know me. That's how I looked! But there
was a light in the house. Yes, my mother was there! But George was there, too. That man! They
had bundles all ready to go away. They weren't glad to see me. I got there too soon. George
said, 'Damn her soul! Always that girl of Ned's! I'll show her!' And he kicked me.

"George kicked me!...

"But my mother--she didn't laugh when she saw me. She was very scared. She shook George, and
said, 'George! Come away, quick! Look at her face! Look at her eyes!' she said.

"Oh, my mother, my little mother. She thought I would hurt her. Even when she'd been such a
fool. I was the one that had to take care of her, then. But she wanted to go away--with that
man! That made me wild.

"'You, George!' I said, 'You've got to go! You've--you've done too much to us!' I said. 'You
go!' And 'Mother!' I said. 'You've got to leave him! He's done too much to us!' I said.

"She only answered, 'George, come, quick!' And she dragged George toward the door. And George
laughed at me. Laughed and laughed--till he saw my eyes. He didn't laugh then. Nor my mother.
My mother screamed when she saw my eyes. 'Shut up, George!' she screamed. 'She's not Ned's
girl now!' And George said, 'No, by God! She's your brat now, all right! She's the devil's own!'

"And they ran for the door. I tried to get there first, to catch my little mother. My mother
only screamed, as if she were wild. And they got out--out in the dark. 'Mother!' I cried. 'Mother!
Come back, come back!' No answer. My mother was gone.

"Oh, that made me feel, somehow, very strong. 'I'll bring you back!' I shouted. 'You, George!
I'll send you away. Wait and see!' They never answered. Maybe they never heard. The wind was
blowing, like to-night.

"But I knew where I could find them. I knew where to go to find George. And I ran to my loft,
for my knife. But, O my God, when I saw poor Mollie in the glass! Teeth gone. I wasn't beautiful
any more. And my eyes!--they came out of the glass at me, like two big dogs jumping a fence.
I ran from them. I didn't know myself. I ran out of the door, in the night. I went after that
man. He had done too much. That storm--the lightning that night! Awful! But no storm kept me
back. Rain--hail--but I kept on. Trees fell--but I went on. I called out. I laughed then, myself.
I'll get him! I say, 'Look out for Ned's girl! Look out for Ned's girl!' I say...."

Unconsciously the woman was re-enacting every gesture, repeating every phrase and accent of
her journey through the night, that excursion out of the world, from which there had been no
return for her. "Look out for Ned's girl!"--the house rang with the cry. But this second journey,
of the memory, ended in a moan and a faint.

"I said I would tell it! Help me!" she said.

In some fashion they worked her heavy bulk out of its crazy wrappings and into a bed. John
arrived, to help them. Morning peered timidly over the eastern hills, as if fearful of beholding
what the night had wrought. In its smiling calm the noise of the storm was already done away.
But the storm in the troubled mind raged on.

For days it raged, in fever and delirium. Then they buried the rude minister of justice in
the place where she commanded--under the pile of broken stones and bricks among the trees in
the hollow. And it is said that the inquisitive villagers who had a part in the simple ceremonies
stirred about till they made the discovery of two skeletons under the ruins. And to this day
there are persons in Bustlebury with a belief that at night, or in a storm, they sometimes
hear a long-drawn cry issuing from that lonely little hollow.

"A CERTAIN RICH MAN----"[18]

[Note 18: Copyright, 1917, by Charles Scribner's Sons. Copyright, 1918, by Lawrence Perry.]

BY LAWRENCE PERRY

From Scribner's Magazine.

Evelyn Colcord glanced up the table with the appraising eye of a young hostess who had already
established a reputation for her dinners. The room had been decorated with a happy effect of
national colors, merged with those of the allied nations, and neither in the table nor its
appointments was a flaw revealed--while the low, contented murmur of conversation and light
laughter attending completion of the first course afforded assurance that the company was well
chosen and the atmosphere assertive in qualities that made for equanimity and good cheer.

She smiled slightly, nodding at the butler, who had been watching her anxiously, and then glanced
out the corner of her eye at Professor Simec, seated at her right. She had entertained doubts
concerning him, had, in fact, resented the business necessity which had brought him thither
as guest of honor, not through any emotion approximating inhospitality but wholly because of
her mistrust as to the effect of this alien note upon her dinner, which was quite impromptu,
having been arranged at the eleventh hour in deference to the wishes of Jerry Dane, a partner
of Colcord's, who was handling the firm's foreign war patents.

She had done the best she could as to guests, had done exceedingly well, as it chanced, fortune
having favored her especially in the cases of several of those who sat about the table. And
now Simec was fully involved in conversation with Bessie Dane, who seemed deeply interested.
As for the man, weazened and attenuate, she could catch only his profile--the bulging, hairless
brow, and beard curling outward from the tip, forming sort of a crescent, which she found hardly
less sinister than the cynical twist where grizzled whiskers and mustaches conjoined and the
cold, level white eyes that she had noted as dominant characteristics when he was presented.

Simec was a laboratory recluse who had found his métier in the war. Rumor credited to him at
least one of the deadliest chemical combinations employed by the allied armies. But it was
merely rumor; nothing definite was known. These are things of which little is hinted and less
said. None the less, intangible as were his practical achievements--whatever they might be--his
reputation was substantial, enhanced, small doubt, by the very vagueness of his endeavors.
The element of mystery, which his physical appearance tended not to allay, invested him, as
it were, with a thaumaturgic veil through which was dimly revealed the man. It was as though
his personality was merely a nexus to the things he stood for and had done, so that he appeared
to Evelyn less a human entity than a symbol. But at least Bessie Dane was interested and the
fine atmosphere of the table was without a taint.

Shrugging almost imperceptibly, she withdrew her eyes and looked across the table with an expression
which Nicholas Colcord could have interpreted had he not been engrossed with Sybil Latham.
Evelyn studied him with admiring tenderness as he lounged in his chair, toying idly with a
fork, smiling at something his partner was saying, while her mind ran lovingly over the dominant
traits of a personality which was so strong, so keenly alive, so sensitive to decent, manly
things, so perfectly balanced.

Failing to catch his eye, Evelyn turned to her plate filled with a subtle melancholy. When
would there be another dinner like this? Not, at all events, until the war was over. Nick had
spoken about this--very definitely; there would be no more entertaining. She had agreed with
him, of course, not, however, escaping the conviction that her husband's viewpoint was more
or less in keeping with a certain unusual sombreness which she had caught creeping into his
mood in the past year or so.

Still, everybody who amounted to anything was pulling up on the bit and doing something or
talking of doing something or other for the country. It was already assured that the season
would be insufferably dull--from a social standpoint at least. Evelyn could not suppress a
certain resentment. She was not one of those who had found an element of thrill in the suddenly
altered perspectives. Her plans for the spring season had been laid; engagements had been accepted
or declined, as functions promised to be worth while or uninteresting; all the delicate interlocking
machinery of the life in which Evelyn Colcord moved, somewhat prominently, was in motion--then
the sudden checking of the wheels: war.

Now there were memories of her husband's sober words; now there was young Jeffery Latham at
her elbow--he had been almost shot to pieces in France--now there was Simec, the genius of
diabolical achievement.... What were things coming to? Even the weather had gone wrong. Outside,
an unseasonable cold rain, lashed by a northeast gale, was driving against the panes of the
French windows, and the sizzling effulgence of an arc-lamp revealed pools of water lying on
the asphalt of the avenue....

The dry, softly modulated voice of Captain Latham at her left lifted Evelyn from her trend
of sombre revery.

"Nick is looking uncommonly fit--he'll go in for the cavalry, I suppose."

The young British officer spoke more with a half-humorous effort at conversation than any other
motive, but she turned to him with a gesture of appeal.

"Jeffery," she said, "you make me shiver!"

The man stared at her curiously.

"Why, I--I'm sorry. I'm sure I didn't--"

"Oh, of course," she interrupted, "I know you didn't. Don't be silly. As for me, I'm perfectly
foolish, don't you know. Only"--she paused--"I detest war talk. It's so fearfully upsetting.
It seems only yesterday that it was a subject to drag in when conversation lagged. But now--"

Latham's quizzical reply was almost upon his lips, when, evidently changing his mind, he spoke
dryly.

"No doubt you'll become used to it in time.... By the by, I was in fun about old Nick. His
objection to grouse coverts and deer-stalking--I can't fancy him in war."

As she didn't reply he picked up his fork, adding: "Yet he's a tremendous athlete--polo and
all that sort of thing. Do you know, I suspect that when the real pull comes he won't object
to potting at Germans.... Did you do these menu cards, Evelyn? They're awfully well done."

She nodded, eying him eagerly.

"Yes, I painted them this afternoon. You see, it was a rush order.... As to Nick, I don't think
it will come to his enlisting. I've never considered it, really. He's awfully mixed up in government
finances, don't you know. We all tell him he's more valuable where he is."

Latham smiled faintly.

"What does Nick say to that?"

"Oh, I don't know." She shrugged. "Nothing very definite. War has been a taboo subject with
him--I mean from the first when you all went in. I know he has strong feelings about it, terribly
strong. But he never talks about them."

"He went in strong on the financial end, didn't he?" asked the Englishman. "Some one in London
told me he'd made a lot of oof."

She nodded, coloring.

"Yes, oceans of money.... Not that we needed it," Evelyn added, a trifle defensively.

"I know; it just came," was Latham's comment. "Well, it all helped us out of a nasty mess."

Evelyn was thinking and did not reply immediately. When she did speak it was apparent that
in changing the subject she had followed a natural impulse without intention or design.

"Jeffery," she said, "do you know I haven't been able to make you out since you arrived here--nor
Sybil either," she added, nodding toward Latham's wife, whose classic, flaxen-haired profile
was turned toward them.

The man was smiling curiously.

"I didn't realize we had changed so."

"Well, you have, both of you. You talk the same and act the same--except a--a sort of reserve;
something; I don't know just what.... Somehow, you, and Sybil, too, seem as though you felt
strange, aloof, out of place. You used to be so absolutely--well, natural and at home with
us all--"

"My word!" Latham laughed but made no further comment.

"Of course," Evelyn went on, "you've been through a lot, I can appreciate that. When I got
Sybil's letter I simply wept: twenty-four hours in a muddy shell-hole; invalided for good,
with an arm you can't raise above your shoulder; a horrid scar down your face...."

"It does make rather a poor face to look at, doesn't it?" Latham flushed and hurried on. "Well,
I've no complaint."

She glanced at the cross on his olive-drab coat.

"Of course not! How absurd, Jeffery! But how did Sybil ever stand it? How did she live through
it? I mean the parting, the months of suspense, word that you were missing, then mortally wounded?...
Her brother killed by gas?"

Latham glanced at his wife, a soft light in his eyes.

"Poor Sybil," he replied. "She was a brick, Evelyn--a perfect brick. I don't know how she got
through it. But one does, you know."

"Yes, one does, I suppose." Evelyn sighed. "But how? I couldn't; I simply couldn't. Why, Jeffery,
I can't bear even to think of it."

Latham shook his head negatively at the footman, who stood at his side, and then turned smiling
to Evelyn. "Oh, come! Of course you could. You don't understand now, but you will. There's
a sort of grace given, I fancy."

"Jeffery, I don't want to understand, and I don't want any grace, and I think you're horrid
and unsympathetic." She tapped him admonishingly on the arm, laughing lightly. But the gloom
was still in her dark-gray eyes. "But, after all, you are right. We are in for it, just as
you have been.... God grant there are women more Spartan than I."

Latham grimaced and was raising a deprecating hand when she caught it impulsively.

"Please let's talk about something else."

"Very well." He smiled mockingly and lowered his voice. "Your friend at your right there--curious
beggar, don't you think?"

Evelyn glanced at Simec, turning again to Latham.

"He gives me the creeps," she confessed. "It seems absurd, but he does."

"Really!" The Englishman stared at the man a moment. "Do you know," he resumed, "he does seem
a bit uncanny. Where'd Nick pick him up?"

"It was Jerry Dane," she replied. "He's done some tremendous things on the other side. Jerry
met him in Washington the other day and seems to regard him as a find. He has no business sense
and has given away practically everything. Now we are going to capitalize him; I believe that's
the word. I never saw him before tonight"--her voice sank to a whisper--"and, do you know,
I hope I never shall again." She shrugged. "Listen to him."

Several of the guests were already doing that. His toneless voice rose and fell monotonously,
and he appeared so detached from what he was saying that as Evelyn gazed at him she seemed
to find difficulty in relating words that were said to the speaker; only the slight movement
of the lips and an occasional formless gesture made the association definite.

"Doctor Allison," he was saying, "has missed the distinction between hostia honoraria and hostia
piacularis. In the former case the deity accepts the gift of a life; in the latter he demands it."

"What in the world are you all talking about now?" asked Evelyn plaintively. "Not war--?"

"Sacrifice, Mrs. Colcord." Simec inclined his head slightly in her direction.

"I was saying," explained Doctor Allison, "that we do well if we send our young men to battle
in the spirit of privileged sacrifice, as--as something that is our--our--yes--our proud privilege,
as I say, to do."

Simec shook his head in thoughtful negation.

"That is sentiment, excellent sentiment; unfortunately, it doesn't stand assay. Reaction comes.
We do better if we make our gift of blood as a matter of unalterable necessity. We make too
much of it all, in any event. The vast evil of extended peace is the attachment of too great
value to luxuries and to human life--trite, but true. We know, of course, that the world has
progressed chiefly over the dead bodies of men and, yes, women and children."

Some new element had entered into the voice. Whether it was herself or whether it was Simec,
Evelyn was in no mood to determine.... She was aware only of a certain metallic cadence which
beat cruelly upon her nerves. Silence had followed, but not of the same sort as before. As
though seeking complete withdrawal, Evelyn turned her eyes out of the window. A wayfarer, head
down, was struggling through the nimbus of watery electric light; a horse-drawn vehicle was
plodding by. Colcord's voice brought her back; it was strained.

"I don't feel as Allison does," he said. "And I certainly have no sympathy with Simec." He
leaned forward, his elbows on the table. "You see," he went on, "I--I--well, maybe, I'm a product
of extended peace, as Simec puts it. No doubt I'm soft. But this war--I've never talked nor
let myself think much about the war--but this whole thing of sacrifice got under me from the
very first.... Young men, thousands, hundreds of thousands of them, yes, millions, torn from
their homes, from their mothers, their fathers--their wives, for what? To be blown into shapeless,
unrecognizable clay, to be maimed, made useless for life. My God! It has kept me awake nights!"

"Colcord"--Simec's white eyes rested professionally upon the host--"let us get to the root
of your state of mind; your brief is for the individual as against the common good, is it not?"

Colcord frowned.

"Oh, I haven't any brief, Simec; I've never reasoned about the thing, that is, in a cold, scientific
way. It's a matter of heart, I suppose--of instinct. I just can't seem to stand the calculating,
sordid wastage of young life and all that it involves. Now, of course, it has come closer home.
And it's terrible."

"You never would shoot anything for sport, would you, old fellow?" said Latham, sympathetically,
"not even pheasants."

Colcord tossed his beautifully modelled head.

"Latham, I tell you, I'm soft; I'm the ultimate product of peace and civilization."

"Yes, you're soft, terribly so," smiled Dane. "I ought to know; I played opposite you at tackle
for two years."

"Stuff! You understand what I mean, Jerry; I guess you all do. I've never talked this way before;
as I say, I've always kept the war in the background, tried to gloss it over, forget it. But
I couldn't; I've done a heap of thinking." He sat bolt upright, his clinched fist upon the
table. "All these young chaps herded together and suddenly turned loose from all they've known
and done and thought--I tell you I can't duck it any more."

"I know, old chap." Arnold Bates, who wrote light society novels, spoke soothingly. "It is--rotten.
But what are you going to do about it?"

Colcord's fine brow was wrinkled painfully.

"Nothing, Arnold, nothing. That's the trouble; you have to sit still and watch this wrecking
of civilization or else get out and take a hack at the thing yourself. I can't do that; not
unless I have to." He paused. "I've had a good time in this life; things have always come easily--"

Sybil Latham was regarding him contemplatively.

"Yes," she murmured, "I don't know a man who has impressed me as so thoroughly enjoying life
as you, Nick--"

Colcord stared at her a moment.

"Well, I do," he replied at length. "But I want to say this right here: if some person or presence,
some supernatural being, say, should come here to-night, at this table, and tell me that by
giving up my life right now I would, through that act, bring an end to--"

"Nick!" Evelyn Colcord's voice was poignantly sharp.

"If through that little sacrifice the blood glut in Europe would end, I'd do it cheerfully,
joyfully, in a minute."

Simec was gazing at the speaker with half-closed eyes; the others, in thrall of his words,
were staring at the table or at one another.

"What a thought!" Mrs. Allison glanced at him curiously. "Coming from you, of all men, Nick!"

"I wonder if I could say that?" Jerry Dane sank down in his chair, put his hands in his pockets,
and gazed sombrely up at the ceiling. "By George! I wish I could--but I can't."

Bates shifted uneasily. He shrugged.

"It's too hypothetical. And yet--of course it's absurd--yet if the thing could happen, I think
I'd stick with Colcord."

"In other words"--Simec's voice now had a sibilant hiss--"if you could end war through your
death you'd be willing to die--now, or at any specified time?"

"If you're talking to me," said Colcord, "I'm on record. Those who know me well know I don't
have to say a thing twice."

"I was talking to Mr. Bates," replied the inventor. "He seemed doubtful."

"Well, I'm not now," retorted the writer sharply. "I'm with Nick absolutely."

Doctor Allison was shaking his head.

"Theoretically, I would make the same assertion," he confessed, "but I wish to be honest; I
don't know whether I could do it or not."

"Neither do I," said Dane. "A certainty like that and taking a chance on the battlefield are
two different things. What do you say, Latham; you've been through the mill?"

"Well, you know," shrugged the soldier, "I fancy I'm a bit hardened. I'd like to see the thing
through now. We've gone so far, don't you know."

There was a momentary silence broken only by the soft movements of the butler and footman.
One of the windows rattled in a gust of wind and rain. Under the flickering candle-lights the
company seemed to draw to-gether in a fellowship that was not the bond of gustatory cheer--which
Evelyn could so infallibly establish at her table--but a communion of sympathetic feeling as
of one drawing to another in the common thrall of subdued emotion. The prevailing mood impressed
Evelyn Colcord strongly, and, glancing down the table, she started at her accuracy in divining
the cause. Simec's place was vacant. She recalled now that but a moment before he had been
summoned to the telephone. She had noted his temporary departure only as one notices the lifting
of a saffron mist.

Unquestionably, the absorbing topic had gripped the imagination of all. It was sufficiently
theoretical, so absolutely hypothetical, in fact, so utterly impossible, that Evelyn's alert
intellect found pleasure in grappling with it.

"I wonder--!" Her elbows were on the table, her chin upon her hands. "Of course, it's awfully
easy to say; but I wonder how it would be if we really faced such a question. Just consider,
Arnold,"--she was smiling at Bates--"the superhuman firing squad is outside the door; the superhuman
agent stands at your side ready to push the button and end the war as the shots ring out. You
picture it, of course, with your imagination. Well, sir, what do you say?"

Bates grimaced, twisting the stem of his wine-glass in his fingers.

"Well, one can say only what he thinks he would do. It's so absurd that I can't visualize your
picture--not even with my imagination. But it seems to me--it seems that I would gladly make
the sacrifice."

Doctor Allison, who had been scowling at the ceiling, passing his fingers thoughtfully through
his sparse gray hair, sighed deeply.

"That's just it; how could one possibly tell? The mind adapts itself to situations, I suppose;
in fact, of course it does. It's altogether difficult, sitting at this table with its food
and color and light and excellent company, to place yourself in the position Nicholas has devised.
It's simply flying from the very comfortable and congenial and normal present into a dark limbo
that is deucedly uncomfortable, uncongenial, and abnormal. I can't go beyond what I've already
said; I don't know whether I'd do it or not."

"You'd like to, of course," suggested Mrs. Dane.

"Oh, of course I'd like to," was the reply. "The point I make is whether I could or not; I
don't know."

"Well"--the young woman paused--"I'm not going to put the question to my husband because I
wouldn't let Jerry do it, even if he were willing."

"Oh, come now, Bess!" grinned Dane.

"Well, I wouldn't, and I imagine I'd have some rights in the matter."

"Now we're getting back to Simec's hostia honoraria and hostia piacularis," laughed Bates.

"It is a new viewpoint," sighed Evelyn. "Curiously, I hadn't thought of that."

She smiled across the table at her husband, but he was slouched in his chair, his eyes staring
vacantly over her head.

"Of course you'd all do it, every one," he said presently. "The trouble now is that you are
attempting to visualize the tragic part of it and not considering the humanitarian side--the
great good that would come of the sacrifice. When you look at it that way you would be willing
to do it--and think it a mighty darn cheap exchange."

"Well, perhaps so," grumbled Allison. "But I can't help thinking I'm glad I don't have to face
the alternative."

Evelyn turned swiftly toward Sybil Latham, under the impression that she had made some little
exclamation or that she had checked one. But her face was hard and inscrutable.

"Let's change the subject." Evelyn laughed self-consciously. "It's so far-fetched; it's getting
a bit on my nerves."

Even as she spoke she knew that Simec had resumed his seat, although he had made no sound and
her eyes were upon her husband. She was thus not surprised to hear his voice.

"I gather, then," he said, as though picking up a conversational thread, "that there are two
of you who would be willing to make the gift of sacrifice--Colcord and Bates."

His manner was such as to draw them all from their mood of idle, comfortable speculation to
rigidity. Turning to him, searching him, they saw, as it seemed to them, a new being divested
of vagueness--dominant, commanding, remorseless. Sitting rigid, his thin, hairy neck stretched
outward, he suggested some sinister bird of prey. Thus poised for an instant he regarded the
two men whom he had named.

"Suppose," he proceeded, "that I could make this absurd condition--as Bates terms it--exist.
Would you gentlemen still hold your position? Believe me, I ask this in the utmost good faith--"

Evelyn Colcord spoke before either man could make reply.

"Nick, this is getting a bit unpleasant, really." She laughed nervously. "Don't you think we
could turn to something more cheerful? I adore a joke--"

"But this is not a joke, Mrs. Colcord," rejoined Simec gravely.

"Well, in any event--" began Evelyn, but her husband interrupted.

"I told you I was on record, Simec," he said. "You show me a way to end this carnival of murder--and
I'm your man."

"I, too." Bates chuckled. "Perhaps, after all, we've been dining closer to the supernatural
than we realized. Well, I'm game. Life, after all, is only a few more summers and a few more
winters, even if we live it out. Go to it, Simec." There was sort of a reckless ring in the
writer's voice which was taken as a sign that he was seriously impressed. But Bates would be;
he had imagination and was temperamental.

"I wish you all would stop." Bessie Dane's voice was childishly plaintive.

"Nick, please!" cried Evelyn. "This is not at all funny."

"I don't see the joke, I must confess," grumbled Allison.

Evelyn wished that Latham or his wife would add weight to the protest, but they remained silent,
staring curiously at the inventor, as, indeed, they had throughout. Now she thought of it,
she realized that the two had remained practically aloof from the discussion that had preceded
Simec's dénouement.

"I'm afraid, Simec," said Colcord crisply, "that we're getting a bit unpopular. We'd better
drop the subject. It was rather a cheap play, I'll admit, stacking myself up as a martyr in
a wholly impossible situation. You called me--and Bates there--rather cleverly.... The drinks
are on us.... At the same time I meant what I said, even if it was far-fetched; I mean I was
sincere."

Simec threw out his arm in a long, bony gesture.

"I am perfectly convinced of that. That is why I am going to ask you to make your offer good."

Had it come from any one else there would have been derisive laughter. But Simec, a man to
whom had been credited so much of mystery and achievement, was speaking. In the soft crimson
glow of the table he stood, reducing to practical application the very situation which they
had found so attractive, only because of its utter grotesque impossibility. It was startling,
grimly thrilling. There was the sense among some about the table of struggling mentally to
break the spell which this coldly unemotional creature of science had cast. At length Dane
spoke as though by sheer physical effort.

"Simec--we--we all know you're a genius. But just now you don't quite get over."

The inventor turned his head slowly toward the speaker.

"I don't think I quite understand."

"Rats," said Dane roughly. "Here Nick says he'd give up his life if the war could be stopped
and you bob up and tell him to make good, throwing sort of a Faust effect over the whole dinner.
All right for Nick and Arnold Bates--but how about you, Simec? How will you stop the war if
they shuffle off? I'll bite once on anything; how will you do it?" There was a general movement
of the diners. Dane's wife laughed a trifle hysterically.

Simec arose and stood leaning forward, his hands upon the table.

"The situation which Colcord devised, as it happens, is not so impossible as you think. In
fact, it may prove to be quite feasible--" He paused, but no voice rose to break the silence.
The candle-lights were flickering softly in an entering breath of wind. Evelyn looked appealingly
at her husband, who grimaced and shrugged slightly.

"I imagine I have some sort of a reputation in the way of physical formula as applied to war,"
Simec went on presently. "Dane is about to handle a rather extraordinary gun of mine in the
foreign market. But one gun differs from another only inasmuch as it is somewhat more deadly--its
destructiveness is not total." He raised a thin forefinger and levelled it along the table.

"Let us assume," he said, "that there has been devised and perfected an apparatus which will
release a destructive energy through the medium of ether waves. If you understand anything
about the wireless telegraph you will grasp what I mean; in itself the wireless, of course,
involves transmitted power. Let us transform and amplify that power and we encompass--destruction.
The air is filled with energy. A sun-ray is energy; you will recall that Archimedes concentrated
it through immense burning-glasses which set fire to Roman ships."

His voice had grown clear and strong, as though he was lecturing to a class of students.

"Now, then, assume an instrument such as I have roughly described be placed in the hands of
our allied nations, an instrument which releases and propels against the enemy energy so incomprehensibly
enormous that it destroys matter instantaneously, whether organic or inorganic; assume that
in a few hours it could lay the greatest host the world ever saw in death, whether they were
concealed in the earth or were in the air, or wherever they were; assume it could level a great
city. Assuming all this, can you conceive that the nations holding this mighty force in their
hands could bring about peace which would not only be instant but would be permanent?"

There was silence for a moment. The footman, obeying a significant glance from the butler,
withdrew; the butler himself went softly out of the room. Latham looked up with the expression
of a man emerging from a trance.

"I don't fancy any one could doubt that," he said.

"No, indeed. Certainly not." Allison gestured in playful salute. "Let me congratulate you upon
a fine flight of imagination, Professor Simec."

"Thank you--but it isn't imagination, Doctor Allison." The man's voice had again become flat
and unemotional, with the effect of withdrawal of personality. "I have reason to think I have
perfected some such device.... At least I believe I now possess the means of destroying human
life on a wholesale scale. There is yet more to do before we may successfully assail inorganic
matter. The waves penetrate but do not as yet destroy, so that while we should easily bring
dissolution to human beings we cannot yet disintegrate the walls behind which they lurk. That,
however, is a detail--"

"Just like that, eh?" No one smiled at Jerry Dane's comment. Bates leaned forward.

"Where do Colcord and I come in?"

Simec, who had resumed his seat, turned to him.

"Of course--I beg your pardon. I should have explained at the outset that the discovery has
never had adequate practical test. One of my assistants lost his life a month or so ago, to
be sure; an extremely promising man. The incident was of value in demonstrating practically
a theoretical deadliness; unfortunately, it proved also that the power energized ether waves
in all directions, whereas obviously it should be within the power of the operator to send
it only in a given direction."

"Otherwise," remarked Latham, "it would be as fatal to the side using it as to the army against
whom it was directed."

"Precisely." Simec lifted his wine-glass and sipped slowly. "For a time," he went on, "this
drawback seemed insuperable, just as it has been in wireless telegraphy. Within the past week,
however, I am convinced that a solution of that difficulty has been reached. In theory and
in tests on a minor scale it certainly has. My assistants, however, refuse to serve in the
demonstrations at full power--which, of course, are vitally necessary--even though I engage
to share a part, but not, of course, the major part, of the risk. I have been equally unfortunate
in enlisting others, to whom, naturally, I was in duty bound to designate possible--in fact,
extremely probable--dangers."

"In more precise words," snapped Bates, "if your invention is what you think it is your assistants
are bound to die."

Simec hesitated a moment, his gleaming brow wrinkled thoughtfully.

"Well, not precisely," he said at length. "That is, not necessarily. There is, of course, as
I have said, that possi--that probability. I cannot be certain. Assuming the more serious outcome
materializes, there will be no further danger for those who operate; I shall have learned all
that it is necessary to know." He paused. "Then war will cease; either before or immediately
after the initial field application."

"But this is absurd." Allison smote the table in agitation. "Why don't you secure condemned
convicts?"

"Even were that possible, I should not care to proceed in that way. Again, I must have one
or more men of keen intelligence."

"But neither Colcord nor Bates is a scientist!"

"That is not at all necessary," was the composed reply. "I am the scientist."

"And Nick the victim," flashed Evelyn Colcord. "Well, I most decidedly and unalterably object,
Professor Simec."

"Your husband and Mr. Bates, inspired by humanitarian motives, named a condition under which
they would give--not risk--their lives. I meet their condition, at least so far as it lies
within human agency to do.... Of course they can withdraw their offer--"

Bates, who had left his seat and was walking up and down the room, turned suddenly, standing
over the scientist with upraised hand.

"Simec, I withdraw right here. I'm no fool. The whole spirit of this--this situation is not
in keeping with the original idea. Not at all. Whether you are joking, serious, or simply insane,
I'm out. Try it on yourself."

"I have already assumed great risks. In furtherance of my device--which, as you may imagine,
will have far-reaching effects--I must survive, if I can."

Evelyn, who had suppressed an exclamation of approval of Arnold Bates's stanch words, turned
to her husband. His jaws were bulging at the corners, his eyes alight. In a species of panic
she tried to speak but could not.

"And you, Colcord?" Simec's colorless delivered question came as from afar.

Colcord had arisen and was staring at the inventor with the face of one exalted.

"If you have what you say you have, Simec, you meet my condition to the letter. At the very
least, it will be a most important asset to the cause of my country. In either case the least
I can give to help it along is my life--if that proves necessary.... When do you want me?"

In the silence that followed Evelyn Colcord, sitting like a statue, unable to move nor to speak,
passed through a limbo of nameless emotion. Through her mind swept a flashing filament of despair,
hope, craven fear, and sturdy resolution. Tortured in the human alembic, she was at length
resolved, seeing with a vision that pierced all her horizons. And then, trembling, tense, there
came--a thought? A vision? She knew not what it was, nor was she conscious of attempting to
ascertain. She knew only that for a fleeting instant the veil had been lifted and that she
had gazed upon serenity and that all was well. Further, she had no inclination to know. Not
that she feared complete revelation; for that matter, some subconscious conviction that all
would be well illumined her senses. This she spurned, or rather ignored, in a greater if nameless
exaltation. Stern with the real fibre of her womanhood, she lifted her head in pride.

Then, moved by initiative not her own, her face turned, not to her husband, but to her guests,
each in turn. Arnold Bates was crushing a napkin in his sensitive fingers, flushed, angry,
rebellious, perhaps a trifle discomfited. Dane was smiling foolishly; Bessie was leaning forward
on the table, dead white, inert. Doctor Allison's head was shaking; he was clicking his tongue
and his wife was twisting her stout fingers one around another. So her gaze wandered, and then,
as though emerging from a dream, revivified, calm, she studied each intently. She knew not
why, but something akin to contempt crept into her mind.

It was as though seeking relief that her eyes rested upon Sybil Latham. The Englishwoman's
face was turned to Colcord; her color was heightened only slightly, but in her blue eyes was
the light of serene stars, and about her lips those new lines of self-sacrifice, anxiety, sorrow,
which Evelyn had resented as marring the woman's delicate beauty, now imparted to her face
vast strength, ineffable dignity, nobility.

Evelyn Colcord's throat clicked; for a moment she did not breathe, while a vivid flash of jealous
emotion departed, leaving in its place a great peace, an exaltation born of sudden knowing.
Instinctively seeking further confirmation, her eyes, now wide and big and flaming, swept to
Latham. His face, too, was turned toward her husband. It was the grimly triumphant visage of
the fighter who knows his own kind, of the friend and believer whose faith, suddenly justified,
has made him proud.

Evelyn rose and stood erect, staring into vacancy. Here were two who knew, who understood--who
had been through hell and found it worth while.

Voices, expostulatory voices, roused her. Allison was at her side and Dane, whose wife, weeping,
was pulling at her bare arm. Colcord and Simec stood to one side, aloof, as though already
detached from the world.

"Evelyn!" Allison's voice was peremptory. "I command you! You're the only one who has the right
to check this damn foolishness. I command you to speak."

"Evelyn--" Dane's voice trailed into nothingness.

Again her eyes turned to Sybil Latham, and then, rigidly as an automaton, she walked swiftly
to her husband's side. For a moment the two stood facing each other, eye riveted to eye. Her
beautiful bare arms flew out swiftly, resting upon his shoulders, not encircling his neck.

"Nick--" Her voice was low, guttural. "I--I didn't help you much, did I, dear heart? I didn't
understand. They've been saying it would all come home to us. But I didn't think so quickly--nor
to us. I--I wasn't ready. I am now. I want to help; I--I--" Her fingers clutched his shoulders
convulsively. "When--when do you go?"

Colcord stood a moment, his eyes smouldering upon her.

"To-morrow morning at seven," he replied. "That was the hour, Professor Simec?" he added with
a side-wise inclination of his head.

"Yes." The scientist looked away, hesitated, and then joined in the little procession to the
dimly lighted hall. Evelyn started as she felt her fingers locked together in a firm hand.

"You know, dear girl, don't you?" There was a mist in Latham's eyes.

But Evelyn's face was light.

"Yes, Jeffery," she said proudly, "I know now."

THE PATH OF GLORY[19]

[Note 19: Copyright 1917, by The Curtis Publishing Company. Copyright 1918, by Mary Brecht Pulver.]

BY MARY BRECHT PULVER

From The Saturday Evening Post.

It was so poor a place--a bitten-off morsel "at the beyond end of nowhere"--that when a February
gale came driving down out of a steel sky and shut up the little lane road and covered the
house with snow a passer-by might have mistaken it all, peeping through its icy fleece, for
just a huddle of the brown bowlders so common to the country thereabouts.

And even when there was no snow it was as bad--worse, almost, Luke thought. When everything
else went brave and young with new greenery; when the alders were laced with the yellow haze
of leaf bud, and the brooks got out of prison again, and arbutus and violet and buttercup went
through their rotation of bloom up in the rock pastures and maple bush--the farm buildings
seemed only the bleaker and barer.

That forlorn unpainted little house, with its sagging blinds! It squatted there through the
year like a one-eyed beggar without a friend--lost in its venerable white-beard winters, or
contemplating an untidy welter of rusty farm machinery through the summers.

When Luke brought his one scraggy little cow up the lane he always turned away his head. The
place made him think of the old man who let the birds build nests in his whiskers. He preferred,
instead, to look at the glories of Bald Mountain or one of the other hills. There was nothing
wrong with the back drop in the home stage-set; it was only home itself that hurt one's feelings.

There was no cheer inside, either. The sagging old floors, though scrubbed and spotless, were
uncarpeted; the furniture meager. A pine table, a few old chairs, a shabby scratched settle
covered by a thin horse blanket as innocent of nap as a Mexican hairless--these for essentials;
and for embellishment a shadeless glass lamp on the table, about six-candle power, where you
might make shift to read the Biweekly--times when there was enough money to have a Biweekly--if
you were so minded; and window shelves full of corn and tomato cans, still wearing their horticultural
labels, where scrawny one-legged geraniums and yellowing coleus and begonia contrived an existence
of sorts.

And then, of course, the mantelpiece with the black-edged funeral notice and shiny coffin plate,
relics of Grampaw Peel's taking-off; and the pink mug with the purple pansy and "Woodstock,
N.Y.," on it; the photograph of a forgotten cousin in Iowa, with long antennæ-shaped mustaches;
the Bible with the little china knobs on the corners; and the pile of medicine testimonials
and seed catalogues--all these contributed something.

If it was not a beautiful place within, it was, also, not even a pleasant place spiritually.
What with the open door into his father's room, whence you could hear the thin frettings made
by the man who had lain these ten years with chronic rheumatism, and the untuneful whistlings
of whittling Tom, the big brother, the shapely supple giant whose mind had never grown since
the fall from the barn room when he was eight years old, and the acrid complaints of the tall
gaunt mother, stepping about getting their inadequate supper, in her gray wrapper, with the
ugly little blue shawl pinned round her shoulders, it was as bad a place as you might find
in a year's journeying for anyone to keep bright and "chirk up" in.

Not that anyone in particular expected "them poor Hayneses" to keep bright or "chirk up." As
far back as he could remember, Luke had realized that the hand of God was laid on his family.
Dragging his bad leg up the hill pastures after the cow, day in and day out, he had evolved
a sort of patient philosophy about it. It was just inevitable, like a lot of things known in
that rock-ribbed and fatalistic region--as immutably decreed by heaven as foreordination and
the damnation of unbaptized babes. The Hayneses had just "got it hard."

Yet there were times, now he was come to a gangling fourteen, when Luke's philosophy threatened
to fail him. It wasn't fair--so it wasn't! They weren't bad folks; they'd done nothing wicked.
His mother worked like a dog--"no fair for her," any way you looked at it. There were times
when the boy drank in bitterly every detail of the miserable place he called home and knew
the depths of an utter despair.

If there was only some way to better it all! But there was no chance. His father had been a
failure at everything he touched in early life, and now he was a hopeless invalid. Tom was
an idiot--or almost--and himself a cripple. And Nat! Well, Nat "wa'n't willin'"--not that one
should blame him. Times like these, a lump like a roc's egg would rise in the boy's throat.
He had to spit--and spit hard--to conquer it.

"If we hain't the gosh-awfulest lot!" he would gulp.

To-day, as he came up the lane, June was in the land. She'd done her best to be kind to the
farm. All the old heterogeneous rosebushes in the wood-yard and front "lawn" were pied with
fragrant bloom. Usually Luke would have lingered to sniff it all, but he saw only one thing
now with a sudden skipping at his heart--an automobile standing beside the front porch.

It was not the type of car to cause cardiac disturbance in a connoisseur. It was, in fact,
of an early vintage, high-set, chunky, brassily æsthetic, and given to asthmatic choking on
occasion; but Luke did not know this. He knew only that it spelled luxury beyond all dreams.
It belonged, in short, to his Uncle Clem Cheesman, the rich butcher who lived in the village
twelve miles away; and its presence here signaled the fact that Uncle Clem and Aunt Mollie
had come to pay one of their detestable quarterly visits to their poor relations. They had
come while he was out, and Maw was in there now, bearing it all alone.

Luke limped into the house hastily. He was not mistaken. There was a company air in the room,
a stiff hostile-polite taint in the atmosphere. Three visitors sat in the kitchen, and a large
hamper, its contents partly disgorged, stood on the table. Luke knew that it contained gifts--the
hateful, merciful, nauseating charity of the better-off.

Aunt Mollie was speaking as he entered--a large, high-colored, pouter-pigeon-chested woman,
with a great many rings with bright stones, and a nodding pink plume in her hat. She was holding
up a bifurcated crimson garment, and greeted Luke absently.

"Three pair o' them underdrawers, Delia--an' not a break in one of 'em! I sez, as soon as I
see Clem layin' 'em aside this spring, 'Them things'll be jest right fur Delia's Jere, layin'
there with the rheumatiz.' They may come a little loose; but, of course, you can't be choicey.
I've b'en at Clem fur five years to buy him union suits; but he's always b'en so stuck on red
flannen. But now he's got two aut'mobiles, countin' the new delivery, I guess he's gotta be
more tony; so he made out to spare 'em. And now that hat, Delia--it ain't a mite wore out,
an' fur all you'll need one it's plenty good enough. I only had it two years and I guess folks
won't remember; an' what if they do--they all know you get my things. Same way with that collarette.
It's a little moth-eaten, but it won't matter fur you.... The gray suit you can easy cut down
fur Luke, there--"

She droned on, the other woman making dry automatic sounds of assent. She looked cool--Maw--Luke
thought; but she wasn't. Not by a darn sight! There was a spot of pink in each cheek and she
stared hard every little bit at Grampaw Peel's funeral plate on the mantel. Luke knew what
she was thinking of--poor Maw! She was burning in a fire of her own lighting. She had brought
it all on herself--on the whole of them.

Years ago she had been just like Aunt Mollie. The daughters of a prosperous village carpenter,
they had shared beads, beaux and bangles until Maw, in a moment's madness, had chucked it all
away to marry poor Paw. Now she had made her bed, she must lie in it. Must sit and say "Thank
you!" for Aunt Mollie's leavings, precious scraps she dared not refuse--Maw, who had a pride
as fierce and keen as any! It was devilish! Oh, it was kind of Aunt Mollie to give; it was
the taking that came so bitter hard. And then they weren't genteel about their giving. There
was always that air of superiority, that conscious patronage, as now, when Uncle Clem, breaking
off his conversation with the invalid in the next room about the price of mutton on the hoof
and the chances of the Democrats' getting in again, stopped fiddling with his thick plated
watch chain and grinned across at big Tom to fling his undeviating flower of wit:

"Runnin' all to beef, hain't ye, Tom, boy? Come on down to the market an' we'll git some A-1
sirloins outen ye, anyway. Do your folks that much good."

It was things like this that made Luke want to burn, poison, or shoot Uncle Clem. He was not
a bad man, Uncle Clem--a thick sandy chunk of a fellow, given to bright neckties and a jocosity
that took no account of feelings. Shaped a little like a log, he was--back of his head and
back of his neck--all of a width. Little lively green eyes and bristling red mustaches. A complexion
a society bud might have envied. Why was it a butcher got so pink and white and sleek? Pork,
that's what Uncle Clem resembled, Luke thought--a nice, smooth, pale-fleshed pig, ready to
be skinned.

His turn next! When crops and politics failed and the joke at poor Tom--Tom always giggled
inordinately at it, too--had come off, there was sure to be the one about himself and the lame
duck next. To divert himself of bored expectation, Luke turned to stare at his cousin, S'norta.

S'norta, sitting quietly in a chair across the room, was seldom known to be emotional. Indeed,
there were times when Luke wondered whether she had not died in her chair. One had that feeling
about S'norta, so motionless was she, so uncompromising of glance. She was very prosperous-looking,
as became the heiress to the Cheesman meat business--a fat little girl of twelve, dressed with
a profusion of ruffles, glass pearls, gilt buckles, and thick tawny curls that might have come
straight from the sausage hook in her papa's shop.

S'norta had been consecrated early in life to the unusual. Even her name was not ordinary.
Her romantic mother, immersed in the prenatal period in the hair-lifting adventures of one
Señorita Carmena, could think of no lovelier appellation when her darling came than the first
portion of that sloe-eyed and restless lady's title, which she conceived to be baptismal; and
in due course she had conferred it, together with her own pronunciation, on her child. A bold
man stopping in at Uncle Clem's market, as Luke knew, had once tried to pronounce and expound
the cognomen in a very different fashion; but he had been hustled unceremoniously from the
place, and S'norta remained in undisturbed possession of her honors.

Now Luke was recalled from his contemplation by his uncle's voice again. A lull had fallen
and out of it broke the question Luke always dreaded.

"Nat, now!" said Uncle Clem, leaning forward, his thick fingers clutching his fat knees. "You
ain't had any news of him since quite a while ago, have you?" The wit that was so preponderate
a feature of Uncle Clem's nature bubbled to the surface. "Dunno but he's landed in jail a spell
back and can't git out again!" The lively little eyes twinkled appreciatively.

Nobody answered. It set Maw's mouth in a thin, hard line. You wouldn't get a rise out of old
Maw with such tactics--Maw, who believed in Nat, soul and body. Into Luke's mind flashed suddenly
a formless half prayer: "Don't let 'em nag her now--make 'em talk other things!"

The Lord, in the guise of Aunt Mollie, answered him. For once, Nat and Nat's character and
failings did not hold her. She drew a deep breath and voiced something that claimed her interest:

"Well, Delia, I see you wasn't out at the Bisbee's funeral. Though I don't s'pose anyone really
expected you, knowin' how things goes with you. Time was, when you was a girl, you counted
in as big as any and traveled with the best; but now"--she paused delicately, and coughed politely
with an appreciative glance round the poor room--"they ain't anyone hereabouts but's talkin'
about it. My land, it was swell! I couldn't ask no better for my own. Fourteen cabs, and the
hearse sent over from Rockville--all pale gray, with mottled gray horses. It was what I call tasty.

"Matty wasn't what you'd call well-off--not as lucky as some I could mention; but she certainly
went off grand! The whole Methodist choir was out, with three numbers in broken time; and her
cousin's brother-in-law from out West--some kind of bishop--to preach. Honest, it was one of
the grandest sermons I ever heard! Wasn't it, Clem?"

Uncle Clem cleared his throat thoughtfully.

"Humiliatin'!--that's what I'd call it. A strong maur'l sermon all round. A man couldn't hear
it 'thout bein' humiliated more ways'n one." He was back at the watch-chain again.

"It's a pity you couldn't of gone, Delia--you an' Matty always was so intimate too. You certainly
missed a grand treat, I can tell you; though, if you hadn't the right clothes--"

"Well, I haven't," Maw spoke dryly. "I don't go nowheres, as you know--not even church."

"I s'pose not. Time was it was different, though, Delia. Ain't nobody but talks how bad off
you are. Ann Chester said she seen you in town a while back and wouldn't of knowed it was you
if it hadn't of b'en you was wearin' my old brown cape, an' she reconnized it. Her an' me got
'em both alike to the same store in Rockville. You was so changed, she said she couldn't hardly
believe it was you at all."

"Sometimes I wonder myself if it is," said Maw grimly.

"Well, 's I was sayin', it was a grand funeral. None better! They even had engraved invites,
over a hundred printed--and they had folks from all over the state. They give Clem, here, the
contract fur the supper meat--"

"The best of everything!" Uncle Clem broke in. "None o' your cheap graft. Gimme a free hand.
Jim Bisbee tole me himself. 'I want the best ye got,' he sez; an' I give it. Spring lamb and
prime ribs, fancy hotel style--"

"An' Em Carson baked the cakes fur 'em, sixteen of 'em; an' Dickison the undertaker's tellin'
all over they got the best quality shroud he carries. Well, you'll find it all in the Biweekly,
under Death's Busy Sickle. Jim Bisbee shore set a store by Matty oncet she was dead. It was
a grand affair, Delia. Not but what we've had some good ones in our time too."

It was Aunt Mollie's turn to stare pridefully at the Peel plate on the chimney shelf.

"A thing like that sets a family up, sorta."

Uncle Clem had taken out a fat black cigar with a red-white-and-blue band. He bit off the end
and alternately thrust it between his lips or felt of its thickness with a fondling thumb and
finger. Luke, watching, felt a sudden compassion for the cigar. It looked so harried.

"I always say," Aunt Mollie droned on, "a person shows up what he really is at the last--what
him and his family stands fur. It's what kind of a funeral you've got that counts--who comes
out an' all. An' that was true with Matty. There wa'n't a soul worth namin' that wasn't out
to hers."

How Aunt Molly could gouge--even amicably! And funerals! What a subject, even in a countryside
where a funeral is a social event and the manner of its furniture marks a definite social status!
Would they never go? But it seemed at last they would. Incredibly, somehow, they were taking
their leave, Aunt Mollie kissing Maw good-by, with the usual remark about "hopin' the things
would help some," and about being "glad to spare somethin' from my great plenty."

She and Señorita were presently packed into the car and Tom had gone out to goggle at Uncle
Clem cranking up, the cold cigar still between his lips. Now they were off--choking and snorting
their way out of the wood-yard and down the lane. Aunt Mollie's pink feather streamed into
the breeze like a pennon of triumph.

* * *

Maw was standing by the stove, a queer look in her eyes; so queer that Luke didn't speak at
once. He limped over to finger the spilled treasures on the table.

"Gee! Lookit, Maw! More o' them prunes we liked so; an' a bag o' early peaches; an' fresh soup
meat fur a week--"

A queer trembling had seized his mother. She was so white he was frightened.

"Did you sense what it meant, Luke--what Aunt Molly told us about Matty Bisbee? We was left
out deliberate--that's what it meant. Her an' me that was raised together an' went to school
and picnics all our girlhood together! Never could see one 'thout the other when we was growin'
up--Jim Bisbee knew that too! But"--her voice wavered miserably--"I didn't get no invite to
her funeral. I don't count no more, Lukey. None of us, anywheres.... We're jest them poor Gawd-forsaken
Hayneses."

She slipped down suddenly into a chair and covered her face, her thin shoulders shaking. Luke
went and touched her awkwardly. Times he would have liked to put his arms round Maw--now more
than ever; but he didn't dare.

"Don't take on, Maw! Don't!"

"Who's takin' on?" She lifted a fierce, sallow, tear-wet face. "Hain't no use makin' a fuss.
All's left's to work--to work, an' die after a while."

"I hate 'em! Uncle Clem an' her, I mean."

"They mean kindness--their way." But her tears started afresh.

"I hate 'em!" Luke's voice grew shriller. "I'd like--I'd like--Oh, damn 'em!"

"Don't swear, boy!"

It was Tom who broke in on them. "It's a letter from Rural Free Delivery. He jest dropped it."

He came up, grinning, with the missive. The mother's fingers closed on it nervously.

"From Nat, mebbe--he ain't wrote in months."

But it wasn't from Nat. It was a bill for a last payment on the "new harrow," bought three
years before.

II

One of the earliest memories Luke could recall was the big blurred impression of Nat's face
bending over his crib of an evening. At first flat, indefinite, remote as the moon, it grew
with time to more human, intimate proportions. It became the face of "brother," the black-haired,
blue-eyed big boy who rollicked on the floor with or danced him on his knee to--

    This is the way the lady rides!
    Tritty-trot-trot; tritty-trot-trot!

Or who, returning from school and meeting his faltering feet in the lane, would toss him up
on his shoulder and canter him home with mad, merry scamperings.

Not that school and Nat ever had much in common. Even as a little shaver Luke had realized
that. Nat was the family wilding, the migratory bird that yearned for other climes. There were
the times when he sulked long days by the fire, and the springs and autumns when he played
an unending round of hookey. There were the days when he was sent home from school in disgrace;
when protesting notes, and sometimes even teacher, arrived.

"It's not that Nat's a bad boy, Mrs. Haynes," he remembered one teacher saying; "but he's so
active, so full of restless animal spirits. How are we ever going to tame him?"

Maw didn't know the answer--that was sure. She loved Nat best--Luke had guessed it long ago,
by the tone of her voice when she spoke to him, by the touch of her hand on his head, or the
size of his apple turnover, so much bigger than the others'. Maw must have built heavily on
her hopes of Nat those days--her one perfect child. She was so proud of him! In the face of
all ominous prediction she would fling her head high.

"My Nat's a Peel!" she would say. "Can't never tell how he'll turn out."

The farmers thereabouts thought they could tell her. Nat was into one scrape after another--nothing
especially wicked; but a compound of the bubbling mischief in a too ardent life--robbed orchards,
broken windows, practical jokes, Halloween jinks, vagrant whimsies of an active imagination.

It was just that Nat's quarters were too small for him, chiefly. Even he realized this presently.
Luke would never forget the sloppy March morning when Nat went away. He was wakened by a flare
of candle in the room he shared with his brothers. Tom, the twelve-year-old, lay sound asleep;
but Nat, the big man of fifteen, was up, dressed, bending over something he was writing on
a paper at the bureau. There was a fat little bundle beside him, done up in a blue-and-white
bandanna.

Day was still far off. The window showed black; there was the sound of a thaw running off the
eaves; the white-washed wall was painted with grotesque leaping shadows by the candle flame.
At the first murmur, Nat had come and put his arms about him.

"Don't ye holler, little un; don't ye do it! 'Tain't nothin'--on'y Natty's goin' away a spell;
quite a spell, little un. Now kiss Natty.... That's right!... An' you lay still there an' don't
holler. An' listen here, too: Natty's goin' to bring ye somethin'--a grand red ball, mebbe--if
you're good. You wait an' see!"

But Natty hadn't brought the ball. Two years had passed without a scrap of news of him; and
then--he was back. Slipped into the village on a freighter at dusk one evening. A forlorn scarecrow
Nat was; so tattered of garment, so smeared of coal dust, you scarcely knew him. So full of
strange sophistications, too, and new trails of thought--so oddly rich of experience. He gave
them his story. The tale of an exigent life in a great city; a piecework life made of such
flotsam labors as he could pick up, of spells of loafing, of odd incredible associates, of
months tagging a circus, picking up a task here and there, of long journeyings through the
country, "riding the bumpers"--even of alms asked at back doors!

"Oh, not a tramp, Nat!"

The hurt had quivered all through Maw.

But Nat only laughed.

"Jiminy Christmas, it was great!"

He had thrown back his head, laughing. That was Nat all through--sipping of life generously,
no matter in what form.

He had stayed just three weeks. He had spent them chiefly defeating Maw's plans to keep him.
Wanderlust kept him longer the next time. That was eight years ago. Since then he had been
back home three times. Never so poor and shabby as at first--indeed, Nat's wanderings had prospered
more or less--but still remote, somewhat mysterious, touched by new habits of life, new ways
of speech.

The countryside, remembering the manner of his first return, shook its head darkly. A tramp--a
burglar, even. God knew what! When, on his third visit home, he brought an air of extreme opulence,
plenty of money, and a sartorial perfection undreamed of locally, the heads wagged even harder.
A gambler probably; a ne'er-do-well certainly; and one to break his mother's heart in the end.

But none of this was true, as Luke knew. It was just that Nat hated farming; that he liked
to rove and take a floater's fortune. He had a taste for the mechanical and followed incomprehensible
quests. San Francisco had known him; the big races at Cincinnati; the hangars of Mineola. He
was restless--Nat; but he was respectable. No one could look into his merry blue eyes and not
know it. If his labors were uncertain and sporadic, and his address that of a nomad, it all
sufficed, at least for himself.

If at times Luke felt a stirring doubt that Nat was not acquitting himself of his family duty,
he quenched it fiercely. Nat was different. He was born free; you could tell it in his talk,
in his way of thinking. He was like an eagle and hated to be bound by earthly ties. He cared
for them all in his own way. Times when he was back he helped Maw all he could. If he brought
money he gave of it freely; if he had none, just the look of his eye or the ready jest on his
lip helped.

Upstairs in a drawer of the old pine bureau lay some of Nat's discarded clothing--incredible
garments to Luke. The lame boy, going to them sometimes, fingered them, pondering, reconstructing
for himself the fabric of Nat's adventures, his life. The ice-cream pants of a bygone day;
the pointed, shriveled yellow Oxfords! the silk-front shirt; the odd cuff link or stud--they
were like a genie-in-a-bottle, these poor clothes! You rubbed them and a whole Arabian Night's
dream unfurled from them.

And Nat lived it all! But people--dull stodgy people like Uncle Clem and Aunt Mollie, and old
Beckonridge down at the store, and a dozen others--these criticized him for not "workin' reg'lar"
and giving a full account of himself.

Luke, thinking of all this, would flush with impotent anger.

"Oh, let 'em talk, though! He'll show 'em some day! They dunno Nat. He'll do somethin' big
fur us all some day."

III

Midsummer came to trim the old farm with her wreaths. It was the time Luke loved best of all--the
long, sweet, loam-scented evenings with Maw and Tom on the old porch; and sometimes--when there
was no fog--Paw's cot, wheeled out in the stillness. But Maw was not herself this summer. Something
had fretted and eaten into her heart like an acid ever since Aunt Mollie's visit and the news
of Matty Bisbee's funeral.

When, one by one, the early summer festivities of the neighborhood had slipped by, with no
inclusion of the Hayneses, she had fallen to brooding deeply,--to feeling more bitterly than
ever the ignominy and wretchedness of their position.

Luke tried to comfort her; to point out that this summer was like any other; that they "never
had mattered much to folks." But Maw continued to brood; to allude vaguely and insistently
to "the straw that broke the camel's back." It was bitter hard to have Maw like that--home
was bad enough, anyway. Sometimes on clear, soft nights, when the moon came out all splendid
and the "peepers" sang so plaintively in the Hollow, the boy's heart would fill and grow enormous
in his chest with the intolerable sadness he felt.

Then Maw's mood lifted--pierced by a ray of heavenly sunlight--for Nat came home!

Luke saw him first--heard him, rather; for Nat came up the lane--oh, miraculous!--driving a
motor car. It was not a car like Uncle Clem's--not even a stepbrother to it. It was low and
almost noiseless, and shaped like one of those queer torpedoes they were fighting with across
the water. It was colored a soft dust-gray and trimmed with nickel; and, huge and powerful
though it was, it swung to a mere touch of Nat's hand.

Nat stood before them, clad in black leather Norfolk and visored cap and leggings.

"Look like a fancy brand of chauffeur, don't I?" he laughed, with the easy resumption of a
long-broken relation that was so characteristically Nat.

But Nat was not a chauffeur. Something much bigger and grander. The news he brought them on
top of it all took their breaths away. Nat was a special demonstrator, out on a brand-new high-class
job for a house handling a special line of high-priced goods. And he was to go to Europe in
another week--did they get it straight? Europe! Jiminy! He and another fellow were taking cars
over to France and England.

No; they didn't quite get it. They could not grasp its significance, but clung humbly, instead,
to the mere glorious fact of his presence.

He stayed two days and a night; and summer was never lovelier. Maw was like a girl, and there
was such a killing of pullets and extravagance with new-laid eggs as they had never known before.
At the last he gave them all presents.

"Tell the truth," he laughed, "I'm stony broke. 'Tisn't mine, all this stuff you see. I got
some kale in advance--not much, but enough to swing me; but of course, the outfit's the company's.
But I'll tell you one thing: I'm going to bring some long green home with me, you can bet!
And when I do"--Nat had given Maw a prodigious nudge in the ribs--"when I do--I ain't goin'
to stay an old bachelor forever! Do you get that?"

Maw's smile had faded for a moment. But the presents were fine--a new knife for Tom, a book
for Luke, and twenty whole round dollars for Maw, enough to pay that old grocery bill down
at Beckonridge's and Paw's new invoice of patent medicine.

They all stood on the porch and watched him as far they could see; and Maw's black mood didn't
return for a whole week.

Evenings now they had something different to talk about--journeys in seagoing craft; foreign
countries and the progress of the "Ee-ropean" war, and Nat's likelihood--he had laughed at
this--of touching even its fringe. They worked it all up from the boiler-plate war news in
the Bi-weekly and Luke's school geography. Yes; for a little space the blackness was lifted.

Then came the August morning when Paw died. This was an unexpected and unsettling contingency.
One doesn't look for a "chronic's" doing anything so unscheduled and foreign to routine; but
Paw spoiled all precedent. They found him that morning with his heart quite still, and Luke
knew they stood in the presence of imminent tragedy.

It's all very well to peck along, hand-to-mouth fashion. You can manage a living of sorts;
and farm produce, even scanty, unskillfully contrived, and the charity of relatives, and the
patience of tradesmen, will see you through. But a funeral--that's different! Undertaker--that
means money. Was it possible that the sordid epic of their lives must be capped by the crowning
insult, the Poormaster and the Pauper's Field? If only poor Paw could have waited a little
before he claimed the spotlight--until prices fell a little or Nat got back with that "long green"!

Maw swallowed her bitter pill.

She went to see Uncle Clem and ask! And Uncle Clem was kind.

"He'll buy a casket--he's willin' fur that--an' send a wreath and pay fur notices, an' even
half on a buryin' lot; but he said he couldn't do no more. The high cost has hit him too....
An' where are we to git the rest? He said--at the last--it might be better all round fur us
to take what Ellick Flick would gimme outen the Poor Fund--" Maw hadn't been able to go on
for a spell.

A pauper's burial for Paw! Surely Maw would manage better than that! She tried to find a better
way that very night.

"This farm's mortgaged to the neck; but I calculate Ben Travis won't care if I'm a mind to
put Paw in the south field. It hain't no mortal good fur anything else, anyhow; an' he can
lay there if we want. It's a real pleasant place. An' I can git the preacher myself--I'll give
him the rest o' the broilers; an' they's seasoned hickory plankin' in the lean-to. Tom, you
come along with me."

All night Luke had lain and listened to the sound of big Tom's saw and hammer. Tom was real
handy if you told him how--and Maw would be showing him just how to shape it all out. Each
hammer blow struck deep on the boy's heart.

Maw lined the home-made box herself with soft old quilts, and washed and dressed her dead herself
in his faded outlawed wedding clothes. And on a morning soft and sweet, with a hint of rain
in the air, they rode down in the farm wagon to the south field together--Paw and Maw and Luke--with
big Tom walking beside the aged knobby horse's head.

Abel Gazzam, a neighbor, had seen to the grave; and in due course the little cavalcade reached
the appointed spot inside the snake fence--a quiet place in a corner, under a graybeard elm.
As Maw had said, it was "a pleasant place for Paw to lay in."

There were some old neighbors out in their own rigs, and Uncle Clem had brought his family
up in his car, with a proper wreath; and Reverend Kearns came up and--declining all lien on
the broilers--read the burial service, and spoke a little about poor Paw. But it wasn't a funeral,
no how. No supper; no condolence; no viewing "the remains"--not even a handshake! Maw didn't
even look at her old friends, riding back home between Tom and Luke, with her head fiercely
high in the air.

A dull depression settled on Luke's heart. It was all up with the Hayneses now. They had saved
Paw from charity with their home-made burial; but what had it availed? They might as well have
gone the whole figure. Everybody knew! There wasn't any comeback for a thing like this. They
were just nobodies--the social pariahs of the district.

IV

Somehow, after the fashion of other years, they got their meager crops in--turnips, potatoes
and Hubbard squashes put up in the vegetable cellar; oats cradled; corn husked; the buckwheat
ready for the mill; even Tom's crooked furrows for the spring sowings made. Somehow, Maw helping
like a man and Tom obeying like a docile child, they took toll of their summer. And suddenly
September was at their heels--and then the equinox.

It seemed to Luke that it had never rained so much before. Brown vapor rose eternally from
the valley flats; the hilltops lay lost entirely in clotted murk. By periods hard rains, like
showers of steel darts, beat on the soaking earth. Gypsy gales of wind went ricocheting among
the farm buildings, setting the shingles to snapping and singing; the windows moaned and rattled.
The sourest weather the boy could remember!

And on the worst day of all they got the news. Out of the mail box in the lane Luke got it--going
down under an old rubber cape in a steady blinding pour. It got all damp--the letter, foreign
postmark, stamp and all--by the time he put it into Maw's hand.

It was a double letter--or so one judged, first opening it. There was another inside, complete,
sealed, and addressed in Nat's hand; but one must read the paper inclosed with it first--that
was obvious. It was just a strip, queer, official looking, with a few lines typed upon it and
a black heading that sprang out at one strangely. They read it together--or tried to. At first
they got no sense from it. Paris--from clear off in France--and then the words below--and Maw's
name at the top, just like the address on the newspaper:

MRS. JERE HAYNES, Stony Brook, New York.

It was for Maw all right. Then quite suddenly the words came clear through the blur:

MRS. JERE HAYNES, Stony Brook, New York.

Dear Madam: We regret to inform you that the official communiqué for September sixth contains
the tidings that the writer of the enclosed letter, Nathaniel Haynes, of Stony Brook, New York,
U. S. A., was killed while on duty as an ambulance driver in the Sector of Verdun, and has
been buried in that region. Further details will follow.

The American Ambulance, Paris.

Even when she realized, Maw never cried out. She sat wetting her lips oddly, looking at the
words that had come like evil birds across the wide spaces of earth. It was Luke who remembered
the other letter:

"My dear kind folks--Father, Mother and Brothers: I guess I dare call you that when I get far
enough away from you. Perhaps you won't mind when I tell you my news.

"Well we came over from England last Thursday and struck into our contract here. Things was
going pretty good; but you might guess yours truly couldn't stand the dead end of things. I
bet Maw's guessed already. Well sir it's that roving streak in me I guess. Never could stick
to nothing steady. It got me bad when I got here any how.

"To cut it short I throwed up my job with the firm yesterday and have volunteered as an Ambulance
driver. Nothing but glory; but I'm going to like it fine! They're short-handed anyhow and a
fellow likes to help what he can. Wish I could send a little money; but it took all I had to
outfit me. Had to cough up eight bucks for a suit of underclothes. What do you know about that?

"You can write me in care of the Ambulance, Paris.

"Now Maw don't worry! I'm not going to fight. I did try to get into the Foreign Legion but
had no chance. I'm all right. Think of me as a nice little Red Cross boy and the Wise Willie
on the gas wagon. And won't I have the hot stuff to make old Luke's eyes pop out! Hope Paw's
legs are better. And Maw have a kiss on me. Mebbe you folks think I don't appreciate you. If
I was any good at writing I'd tell you different.

"Your Son and Brother, "NAT HAYNES."

The worst of it all was about Maw's not crying--just sitting there staring at the fire, or
where the fire had been when the wood had died out of neglect. It's not in reason that a woman
shouldn't cry, Luke felt. He tried some words of comfort:

"He's safe, anyhow, Maw--'member that! That's a whole lot too. Didn't always know that, times
he was rollin' round so over here. You worried a whole lot about him, you know."

But Maw didn't answer. She seldom spoke at all--moved about as little as possible. When she
had put out food for him and Tom she always went back to her corner and stared into the fire.
Luke had to bring a plate to her and coax her to eat. Even the day Uncle Clem and Aunt Mollie
came up she did not notice them. Only once she spoke of Nat to Luke.

"You loved him the most, didn't ye, Maw?" he asked timidly one dreary evening.

She answered in a sort of dull surprise.

"Why, lad, he was my first!" she said; and after a bit as though to herself: "His head was
that round and shiny when he was a little fellow it was like to a little round apple. I mind,
before he ever come, I bought me a cap fur him over to Rockville, with a blue bow onto it.
He looked awful smart an' pretty in it."

Sometimes in the night Luke, sleeping ill and thinking long, lay and listened for possible
sounds from Maw's room. Perhaps she cried in the nights. If she only would--it would help break
the tension for them all. But he never heard anything but the rain--steadily, miserably beating
on the sodden shingles overhead.

* * *

It was only Luke who watched the mail box now. One morning his journey to it bore fruit. No
sting any longer; no fear in the thick foreign letter he carried.

"It'll tell ye all's to it, I bet!" he said eagerly.

Maw seemed scarcely interested. It was Luke who broke the seal and read it aloud.

It was written from the Ambulance Headquarters, in Paris--written by a man of rare insight,
of fine and delicate perception. All that Nat's family might have wished to learn he sought
to tell them. He had himself investigated Nat's story and he gave it all fully and freely.
He spoke in praise of Nat; of his friendly associations with the Ambulance men; of his good
nature and cheerful spirits; his popularity and ready willingness to serve. People, one felt,
had loved Nat over there.

He wrote of the preliminary duties in Paris, the preparations--of Nat's final going to join
one of the three sections working round Verdun. It wasn't easy work that waited for Nat there.
It was a stiff contract guiding the little ambulance over the shell-rutted roads, with deftness
and precision, to those distant dressing stations where the hurt soldiers waited for him. It
was a picture that thrilled Luke and made his pulses tingle--the blackness of the nights; the
rumble of moving artillery and troops; the flash of starlights; the distant crackling of rifle
fire; the steady thunder of heavy guns.

And the shells! It was mighty close they swept to a fellow, whistling, shrieking, low overhead;
falling to tear out great gouges in the earth. It was enough to wreck one's nerve utterly;
but the fellows that drove were all nerve. Just part of the day's work to them! And that was
Nat too. Nat hadn't known what fear was--he'd eaten it alive. The adventurer in him had gone
out to meet it joyously.

Nat was only on his third trip when tragedy had come to him. He and a companion were seeking
a dressing station in the cellar of a little ruined house in an obscure French village, when
a shell had burst right at their feet, so to speak. That was all. Simple as that. Nat was dead
instantly and his companion--oh, Nat was really the lucky one....

Luke had to stop for a little time. One couldn't go on at once before a thing like that....
When he did, it was to leave behind the darkness, the shell-torn houses, the bruised earth,
the racked and mutilated humans.... Reading on, it was like emerging from Hades into a great Peace.

* * *

"I wish it were possible to convey to you, my dear Mrs. Haynes, some impression of the moving
and beautiful ceremony with which your son was laid to rest on the morning of September ninth,
in the little village of Aucourt. Imagine a warm, sunny, late-summer day, and a village street
sloping up a hillside, filled with soldiers in faded, dusty blue, and American Ambulance drivers
in khaki.

"In the open door of one of the houses, the front of which was covered with the tri-color of
France, the coffin was placed, wrapped in a great French flag, and covered with flowers and
wreaths sent by the various American sections. At the head a small American flag was placed,
on which was pinned the Croix de Guerre--a gold star on a red-and-green ribbon--a tribute from
the army general to the boy who gave his life for France.

"A priest, with six soldier attendants, led the procession from the courtyard. Six more soldiers
bore the coffin, the Americans and representatives of the army branches following, bearing
wreaths. After these came the General of the Army Corps, with a group of officers, and a detachment
of soldiers with arms reversed. At the foot of the hill a second detachment fell in and joined
them....

"The scene was unforgettable, beautiful and impressive. In the little church a choir of soldiers
sang and a soldier-priest played the organ, while the Chaplain of the Army Division held the
burial service. The chaplain's sermon I have asked to have reproduced and sent to you, together
with other effects of your son's....

"The chaplain spoke most beautifully and at length, telling very tenderly what it meant to
the French people that an American should give his life while trying to help them in the hour
of their extremity. The name of this chaplain is Henri Deligny, Aumônier Militaire, Ambulance
16-27, Sector 112; and he was assisted by the permanent curé of the little church, Abbé Blondelle,
who wishes me to assure you that he will guard most reverently your son's grave, and be there
to receive you when the day may come that you shall wish to visit it.

"After leaving the church the procession marched to the military cemetery, where your son's
body was laid beside the hundreds of others who have died for France. Both the lieutenant and
general here paid tributes of appreciation, which I will have sent to you. The general, various
officers of the army, and ambulance assisted in the last rites....

"I have brought back and will send you the Croix de Guerre...."

* * *

Oh, but you couldn't read any further--for the great lump of pride in your throat, the thick
mist of tears in your eyes. A sob escaped the boy. He looked over at Maw and saw the miraculous.
Maw was awake at last and crying--a new-fledged pulsating Maw emerged from the brown chrysalis
of her sorrows.

"Oh, Maw!... Our Nat!... All that--that--funeral!... Some funeral, Maw!" The boy choked.

"My Nat!" Maw was saying. "Buried like a king!... Like a King o' France!" She clasped her hands
tightly.

It was like some beautiful fantasy. A Haynes--the despised and rejected of earth--borne to
his last home with such pomp and ceremony!

"There never was nothin' like it heard of round here, Maw.... If folks could only know--"

She lifted her head as at a challenge.

"Why, they're goin' to know, Luke--for I'm goin' to tell 'em. Folks that have talked behind
Nat's back--folks that have pitied us--when they see this--like a King o' France!" she repeated
softly. "I'm goin' down to town to-day, Luke."

V

It was dusk when Maw came back; dusk of a clear day, with a rosy sunset off behind the hills.
Luke opened the door for her and he saw that she had brought some of the sun along in with
her--its colors in her worn face; its peace in her eyes. She was the same, yet somehow new.
Even the tilt of her crazy old bonnet could not detract from a strange new dignity that clothed
her.

She did not speak at once, going over to warm her gloveless hands at the stove, and staring
up at the Grampaw Peel plate; then:

"When it comes--my Nat's medal--it's goin' to set right up here, 'stead o' this old thing--an'
the letters and the sermons in my shell box I got on my weddin' trip.... Lawyer Ritchie told
me to-day what it means, the name o' that medal--Cross o' War! It's a decoration fur soldiers
and earned by bravery."

She paused; then broke out suddenly:

"I b'en a fool, settin' here grievin'. My Nat was a hero, an' I never knew it!... A hero's
folks hadn't ought to cry. It's a thing too big for that. Come here, you little Luke! Maw hain't
b'en real good to you an' Tommy lately. You're gittin' all white an' peaked. Too much frettin'
'bout Nat. You an' me's got to stop it, I tell you. Folks round here ain't goin' to let us fret--"

"Folks! Maw!" The words burst from the boy's heart. "Did they find out?... You showed it to
'em? Uncle Clem--"

Maw sniffed.

"Clem! Oh, he was real took aback; but he don't count in on this--not big enough." Then triumph
hastened her story. "It's the big ones that's mixin' into this, Lukey. Seems like they'd heard
somethin' a spell back in one o' the county papers, an' we didn't know.... Anyhow, when I first
got into town I met Judge Geer. He had me right into his office in Masonic Hall 'fore I could
git my breath almost--had me settin' in his private room, an' sent his stenugifer out fur a
cup o' cawfee fur me. He had me give him the letter to read, an' asked dare he make some copies.
The stenugifer took 'em like lightnin', right there.

"The judge had a hard time of it, coughin' an' blowin' over that letter. He's goin' to send
some copies to the New York papers right off. He took me acrost the hall and interduced me
to Lawyer Ritchie. Lawyer Ritchie, he read the letter too. 'A hero!' they called Nat; an' me
'A hero's mother!'

"'We ain't goin' to forgit this, Mis' Haynes,' Lawyer Ritchie said. 'This here whole town's
proud o' your Nat.'... My land! I couldn't sense it all!... Me, Delia Haynes, gettin' her hand
wrung, 'count o' anything Nat'd b'en doin', by the big bugs round town! Judge Geer, he fetched
'em all out o' their offices--Slade, the supervisor, and Fuller Brothers, and old Sumner Pratt--an'
all! An' Ben Watson asked could he have a copy to put in the Bi-weekly. It's goin' to take
the whole front page, with an editor'al inside. He said the Rockville Center News'd most likely
copy it too.

