  And fair uprose the queen of night,
    Shining o'er mount and main;
  Ben Lomond own'd her silvery light,
    Forth sparkled bright again.
  Fair, too, o'er loyal Scoone she shone,
    For there the Bruce had kneel'd,
  And, half forgetful, look'd she down
    On Falkirk's fatal field.
  For ere to-morrow's sun shall set,
    Stern Edward's self shall learn
  A lesson pride may ne'er forget,
    Where murmurs Bannockburn.

  A voice is heard from Stirling's tower,
    'Tis of that aged seer,
  The lover leaves his lady's bower,
    Yet chides her timid tear.
  The infant wakes 'mid wild alarms,
    Prayers are in vain outpour'd;
  The bridegroom quits his bride's fond charms,
    And half unsheaths his sword.
  Yet who may fate's dark power withstand,
    Or who its mandate spurn?
  And still the seer uplifts his hand
    And points to Bannockburn.

  "There waves a standard o'er the brae,
    There gleams a highland sword;
  Is not yon form the Stewart, say,--
    Yon, Scotland's Martial Lord?
  Douglas, with Arran's stranger chief,
    And Moray's earl, are there;
  Whilst drops of blood, for tears of grief,
    The coming strife declare.
  Oh! red th' autumnal heath-bells blow
    Within thy vale, Strathearne;
  But redder far, ere long, shall glow
    The flowers of Bannockburn!

  "Alas! for Edward's warrior pride,
    For England's warrior fame;
  Alas! that e'er from Thames' fair side
    Her gallant lances came!
  Lo! where De Bohun smiles in scorn,--
    The Bruce, the Bruce is near!
  Rash earl, no more thy hunter horn
    Shall Malvern's blue hills hear!
  Back, Argentine, and thou, De Clare,
    To Severn's banks return
  Health smiles in rural beauty there,--
    Death lours o'er Bannockburn!

  "Up, up, De Valence, dream no more
    Of Mothven's victor fight--
  Thy bark is on a stormier shore,
    No star is thine to-night.
  And thou, De Burgh, from Erin's isle,
    Whom Eth O'Connor leads,
  Love's tear shall soon usurp his smile
    In Ulster's emerald meads.
  But oh! what tears will Cambria shed
    When she the tale shall learn--
  For Forth's full tide shall flow blood red,
    Ere long, from Bannockburn!

  "But not alone shall Southron vale
    Lament that day of woe--
  Grief's sigh shall soothe each ruder gale
    Where Scotia's waters flow.
  From Corra Linn, where roars the Clyde,
    To Dornoch's ocean bay--
  From Tweed, that rolls a neutral tide,
    To lonely Colinsay:--
  But see, the stars wax faint and few,
    Death's frown is dark and stern--
  But darker soon shall rise to view
    Yon field of Bannockburn!"

       *       *       *       *       *

RIVER MELODIES.

Between Pittsburgh and Shawneetown, whilst "gliding merrily down the Ohio" in a keel-boat,
"navigated by eight or ten of those half-horse and half-alligator gentry commonly called Ohio
boatmen," Judge Hall was lulled to sweet sleep, as the rowers were "tugging at the oar," timing
their strokes to the cadence:--

  "Some rows up, but we rows down,
  All the way to Shawnee town:
            Pull away--pull away."

       *       *       *       *       *

REAL DISCONTENT.

The following anecdote is related of Robert de Insula, or Halieland, a man of low birth, and
one of the bishops of Durham:--Having given his mother an establishment suitable to his own
rank, and asking her once, when he went to see her, how she fared, she answered, "Never worse!"--"What
troubles thee?" said the bishop; "hast thou not men and women enough to attend thee?"--"Yea,"
quoth the old woman, "and more than enough! I say to one--go, and he runs; to another--come
hither, fellow! and the varlet falls down on his knees;--and, in short, all things go on so
abominably smooth, that my heart is bursting for something to spite me, and pick a quarrel
withal!" The ducking-stool may have been a very needful piece of public furniture in those
days, when it was deemed one characteristic of a notable housewife to be a good scold, and
when women of a certain description sought, in the use of vituperation, that sort of excitement
which they now obtain from a bottle and a glass.

       *       *       *       *       *

The magnificent bishop of Durham, Antony Beke, once gave forty shillings for as many fresh
herrings; and hearing someone say, "This cloth is so dear that even bishop Antony would not
venture to pay for it," immediately ordered it to be brought and cut up into horse-cloths.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOLIMAN "THE GREAT."

Here is a specimen of the magnificence with which this historical butcher treated his fellow-creatures:--

Among the many distinctions of Soliman's reign must be noticed the increased diplomatic intercourse
with European nations. Three years after the capture of Rhodes, appeared the first French ambassador
at the Ottoman Porte; he received a robe of honour, a present of two hundred ducats, and, what
was more to his purpose, a promise of a campaign in Hungary, which should engage on that side
the arms of Charles and his brother, Ferdinand. Soliman kept his promise. At the head of 100,000
men and 300 pieces of artillery, he commenced this memorable campaign. On the fatal field of
Mohacs the fate of Hungary was decided in an unequal fight. King Lewis, as he fled from the
Turkish sabres, was drowned in a morass. The next day the sultan received in state the compliments
of his officers. The heads of 2,000 of the slain, including those of seven bishops and many
of the nobility, were piled up as a trophy before his tent. Seven days after the battle, a
tumultuous cry arose in the camp to massacre the prisoners and peasants--and in consequence
4,000 men were put to the sword. The keys of Buda were sent to the conqueror, who celebrated
the Feast of Bairam in the castle of the Hungarian kings. Fourteen days afterwards he began
to retire--bloodshed and devastation marking the course of his army. To Moroth, belonging to
the Bishop of Gran, many thousands of the people had retired with their property, relying on
the strength of the castle; the Turkish artillery, however, soon levelled it, and the wretched
fugitives were indiscriminately butchered. No less than 25,000 fell here; and the whole number
of the Hungarians destroyed in the barbarous warfare of this single campaign amounted to at
least 200,000 souls.--Foreign Quarterly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONG SNOW.

In 1614, there was one of the heaviest and longest snows which has ever been remembered in
the north of England. The Parochial Register, of Wotton Gilbert, states that it began on the
5th of January, and continued to snow more or less every day, (the heaviest fall being on the
22nd of February,) till the 12th of March,--to the great loss of cattle, and of human life as well.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GOOD BISHOP.

The great and good bishop Morton was preferred to the rectory of Long Marston, near York, four
years before what is called the great plague began in that city, 1602. During this visitation,
"he carried himself with so much heroical charity," says his biographer, "as will make the
reader wonder to hear it." For the poorer sort being removed to the pest-house, he made it
his frequent exercise to visit them with food, both for their bodies and souls. His chief errand
was to instruct and comfort them, and pray for them and with them; and, to make his coming
the more acceptable, he carried usually a sack of provision with him for those that wanted
it. And because he would have no man to run any hazard thereby but himself, he seldom suffered
any of his servants to come near him, but saddled and unsaddled his own horse, and had a private
door made on purpose into his house and chamber. It was probably during this plague that the
village of Simonside (in the chapelry of South Shields) was, according to tradition, so entirely
depopulated, that the nearest townships divided the deserted lands. There is another tradition
worthy of notice, that when the plague raged with great violence at Shields, the persons who
were employed about the salt works entirely escaped the infection.

When the London mob was excited, by the movers of rebellion, against the bishop, this excellent
prelate, on his way to the House of Lords, was almost torn to pieces. "Pull him out of his
coach!" cried some; others, "nay he is a good man;" others, "but for all that he is a bishop!"--"I
have often," says his biographer, heard him say, he believed he should not have escaped alive
if a leading man among that rabble had not cried out, "Let him go and hang himself," which
he was wont to compare to the words of the angel uttered by Balaam's ass. At that time he was
seventy-six years of age, and, on that account, when the protesting prelates were, for this
act of duty, committed to the Tower, he was remitted to the custody of the usher; and then,
so little had he regarded the mammon of unrighteousness, that he had scarcely wherewith to
defray the fees and charges of his confinement.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICAN COMFORTS.

Pittsburgh is full of coal and smoke; in New Orleans the people play cards on Sunday; living
is dear at Washington city, and codfish cheap at Boston; and Irishmen are plenty in Pennsylvania,
and pretty girls in Rhode Island.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

[We need not illustrate the force, or point the moral of the following sketch from the last
number of Blackwood's Magazine. The parents of the writer were of "a serious cast," and attached
to evangelical tenets, which he soon imbibed, together with an occasional tendency to gloom
and nervous irritability.]

About the year 1790, at the Assizes for the county of which the town of C----r is the county
town, was tried and convicted a wretch guilty of one of the most horrible murders upon record.
He was a young man, probably (for he knew not his own years) of about twenty-two years of age.
One of those wandering and unsettled creatures, who seem to be driven from place to place,
they know not why. Without home; without name; without companion; without sympathy; without
sense. Hearthless, friendless, idealess, almost soulless! and so ignorant, as not even to seem
to know whether he had ever heard of a Redeemer, or seen his written word. It was on a stormy
Christmas eve, when he begged shelter in the hut of an old man, whose office it was to regulate
the transit of conveyances upon the road of a great mining establishment in the neighbourhood.
The old man had received him, and shared with him his humble cheer and his humble bed; for
on that night the wind blew and the sleet drove, after a manner that would have made it a crime
to have turned a stranger dog to the door. The next day the poor old creature was found dead
in his hut--his brains beaten out with an old iron implement which he used--and his little
furniture rifled, and in confusion. The wretch had murdered him for the supposed hoard of a
few shillings. The snow, from which he afforded his murderer shelter, had drifted in at the
door, which the miscreant, when he fled, had left open, and was frozen red with the blood of
his victim. But it betrayed a footstep hard frozen in the snow, and blood--and the nails of
the murderer's shoe were counted, even as his days were soon to be. He was taken a few days
after with a handkerchief of the old man upon his neck. So blind is blood-guiltiness.

Up to the hour of condemnation, he remained reckless as the wind--unrepenting as the flint--venomous
as the blind-worm. With that deep and horrible cunning which is so often united to unprincipled
ignorance, he had almost involved in his fate another vagrant with whom he had chanced to consort,
and to whom he had disposed of some of the blood-bought spoils. The circumstantial evidence
was so involved and interwoven, that the jury, after long and obvious hesitation as to the
latter, found both guilty; and the terrible sentence of death, within forty-eight hours, was
passed upon both. The culprit bore it without much outward emotion; but when taken from the
dock, his companion, infuriated by despair and grief, found means to level a violent blow at
the head of his miserable and selfish betrayer, which long deprived the wretch of sense and
motion, and, for some time, was thought to have anticipated the executioner. Would it had done
so! But let me do my duty as I ought--let me repress the horror which one scene of this dreadful
drama never fails to throw over my spirit--that I may tell my story as a man--and my confession
at least be clear. When the felon awoke out of the deathlike trance into which this assault
had thrown him, his hardihood was gone; and he was reconveyed to the cell, in which he was
destined agonizingly to struggle out his last hideous and distorted hours, in a state of abject
horror which cannot be described. He who felt nothing--knew nothing--had now his eyes opened
with terrible clearness to one object--the livid phantasma of a strangling death. All the rest
was convulsive despair and darkness. Thought shudders at it--but let me go on,

[He visits the murderer in prison, accompanied by the clergyman.]

I undertook to pass with the murderer--his LAST NIGHT--such a last!-- but let me compose myself.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was about the hour of ten, on a gusty and somewhat raw evening of September, that I was
locked up alone with the murderer. It was the evening of the Sabbath. Some rain had fallen,
and the sun had not been long set without doors; but for the last hour and a half the dungeon
had been dark, and illuminated only by a single taper. The clergyman of the prison, and some
of my religious friends, had sat with us until the hour of locking-up, when, at the suggestion
of the gaoler, they departed. I must confess their "good night," and the sound of the heavy
door, which the gaoler locked after him, when he went to accompany them to the outer-gate of
the gaol, sounded heavily on my heart. I felt a sudden shrink within me, as their steps quickly
ceased to be heard upon the stone stairs--and when the distant prison door was finally closed,
I watched the last echo. I had for a moment forgotten my companion.

