How long I lay, I do not exactly know; but I was roused from my lethargy by the neighbors,
who, alarmed by the smell of fire, came to my room to ascertain the cause.  When they took
me from my bed, the under part of the straw with which it was stuffed was smouldering, and
in a quarter of an hour more must have burst into a flame.  Had such been the case, how horrible
would have been my fate! for it is more than probable that, in my half-senseless condition,
I should have been suffocated, or burned to death.  The fright produced by this incident, and
a very narrow escape, in some degree sobered me, but what I felt more than anything else was
the exposure now; all would be known, and I feared my name would become, more than ever, a
byword and a reproach.

Will it be believed that I again sought refuge in rum?  Yes, so it was. Scarcely had I recovered
from the fright than I sent out, procured a pint of rum, and drank it all in less than an hour.
And now came upon me many terrible sensations.  Cramps attacked me in my limbs, which raked
me with agony, and my temples throbbed as if they would burst. So ill was I that I became seriously
alarmed, and begged the people of the house to send for a physician.  They did so, but I immediately
repented having summoned him, and endeavored, but ineffectually, to get out of his way when
he arrived.  He saw at a glance what was the matter with me, ordered the persons about me to
watch me carefully, and on no account to let me have any spirituous liquors.  Everything stimulating
was vigorously denied me; and there came on the drunkard's remorseless torture: delirium tremens,
in all its terrors, attacked me.  For three days I endured more agony than pen could describe,
even were it guided by the mind of Dante.  Who can feel the horrors of the horrible malady,
aggravated as it is by the almost ever-abiding consciousness that it is self-sought.  Hideous
faces appeared on the wall and on the ceiling and on the floors; foul things crept along the
bedclothes, and glaring eyes peered into mine.  I was at one time surrounded by millions of
monstrous spiders that crawled slowly over every limb, whilst the beaded drops of perspiration
would start to my brow, and my limbs would shiver until the bed rattled again.  Strange lights
would dance before my eyes, and then suddenly the very blackness of darkness would appall me
by its dense gloom.  All at once, while gazing at a frightful creation of my distempered mind,
I seemed struck with sudden blindness. I knew a candle was burning in the room but I could
not see it, all was so pitchy dark.  I lost the sense of feeling, too, for I endeavored to
grasp my arm in one hand, but consciousness was gone.  I put my hand to my side, my head, but
felt nothing, and still I knew my limbs and frame were there.  And then the scene would change!
I was falling--falling swiftly as an arrow--far down into some terrible abyss; and so like
reality was it that as I fell I could see the rocky sides of the horrible shaft, where mocking,
jibing, fiend-like forms were perched; and I could feel the air rushing past me, making my
hair stream out by the force of the unwholesome blast.  Then the paroxysm sometimes ceased
for a few moments, and I would sink back on my pallet, drenched with perspiration, utterly
exhausted, and feeling a dreadful certainty of the renewal of my torments.

By the mercy of God I survived this awful seizure; and when I rose, a weak, broken-down man,
and surveyed my ghastly features in a glass, I thought of my mother, and asked myself how I
had obeyed the instructions I had received from her lips, and to what advantage I had turned
the lessons she had taught me.  I remembered her prayers and tears, thought of what I had been
but a few short months before, and contrasted my situation with what it then was.  Oh! how
keen were my own rebukes; and in the excitement of the moment I resolved to lead a better life,
and abstain from the accursed cup.

For about a month, terrified by what I had suffered, I adhered to my resolution, then my wife
came home, and in my joy at her return I flung my good resolutions to the wind, and foolishly
fancying that I could now restrain my appetite, which had for a whole month remained in subjection,
I took a glass of brandy.  That glass aroused the slumbering demon, who would not be satisfied
by so tiny a libation. Another and another succeeded, until I was again far advanced in the
career of intemperance.  The night of my wife's return I went to bed intoxicated.

I will not detain the reader by the particulars of my everyday life at this time; they may
easily be imagined from what has already been stated.  My previous bitter experience, one would
think, might have operated as a warning; but none save the inebriate can tell the almost resistless
strength of the temptations which assail him.  I did not, however, make quite so deep a plunge
as before.  My tools I had given into the hands of Mr. Gray, for whom I worked, receiving about
five dollars a week.  My wages were paid me every night, for I was not to be trusted with much
money at a time, so certain was I to spend a great portion of it in drink.  As it was, I regularly
got rid of one third of what I daily received, for rum.

My wardrobe, as it had, indeed, nearly always been whilst I drank to excess, was now exceedingly
shabby, and it was with the greatest difficulty that I could manage to procure the necessaries
of life.  My wife became very ill.  Oh! how miserable I was!  Some of the women who were in
attendance on my wife told me to get two quarts of rum.  I procured it, and as it was in the
house, and I did not anticipate serious consequences, I could not withstand the strong temptation
to drink.  I did drink, and so freely that the usual effect was produced. How much I swallowed
I cannot tell, but the quantity, judging from the effects, must have been considerable.

Ten long weary days of suspense passed, at the end of which my wife and her infant both died.
Then came the terribly oppressive feeling that I was forgotten of God, as well as abandoned
by man.  All the consciousness of my dreadful situation pressed heavily, indeed, upon me, and
keenly as a sensitive mind could, did I feel the loss I had experienced.  I drank now to dispel
my gloom, or to drown it in the maddening cup.  And soon was it whispered, from one to another,
until the whole town became aware of it, that my wife and child were lying dead, and that I
was drunk!  But if ever I was cursed with the faculty of thought, in all its intensity, it
was then.  And this was the degraded condition of one who had been nursed in the lap of piety,
and whose infant tongue had been taught to utter a prayer against being led into temptation.
There in the room where all who had loved me were; lying in the unconscious slumber of death
was I, gazing, with a maudlin melancholy imprinted on my features, on the dead forms of those
who were flesh of my flesh and bone of my bone.  During the miserable hours of darkness I would
steal from my lonely bed to the place where my dead wife and child lay, and, in agony of soul,
pass my shaking hand over their cold faces, and then return to my bed after a draught of rum,
which I had obtained and hidden under the pillow of my wretched couch.

How apt the world is to judge of a man pursuing the course I did as one destitute of all feeling,
with no ambition, no desire for better things!  To speak of such a man's pride seems absurd,
and yet drink does not destroy pride, ambition, or high aspirations.  The sting of his misery
is that he has ambition but no expectation; desire for better things but no hope; pride but
no energy; therefore the possession of these very qualities is an additional burden to his
load of agony.  Could he utterly forget his manhood, and wallow with the beasts that perish,
he would be comparatively happy.  But his curse is that he thinks.  He is a man, and must think.
He cannot always drown thought or memory.  He may, and does, fly for false solace to the drink,
and may stun his enemy in the evening, but it will rend him like a giant in the morning.  A
flower, or half-remembered tune, a child's laughter, will sometimes suffice to flood the victim
with recollections that either madden him to excess or send him crouching to his miserable
room, to sit with face buried in his hands, while the hot, thin tears trickle over his swollen
fingers.

I believe this to be one reason why I shrink from society; why I have so often refused kind
invitations; why, though I love my personal friends as strongly and as truly as any man's friends
are ever loved, I have so steadily withdrawn from social parties, dinners, or introductions.
This is the penalty I must ever pay.

A man can never recover from the effects of such a seven years' experience, morally or physically.

The month of October had nearly drawn to a close, and on its last Sunday evening I wandered
out into the streets, pondering as well as I was able to do--for I was somewhat intoxicated--on
my lone and friendless condition.  My frame was much weakened and little fitted to bear the
cold of winter, which had already begun to come on.  But I had no means of protecting myself
against the bitter blast, and, as I anticipated my coming misery, I staggered along, houseless,
aimless, and all but hopeless.

Some one tapped me on the shoulder.  An unusual thing that, to occur to me, for no one now
cared to come in contact with the wretched, shabby-looking drunkard.  I was a disgrace, "a
living, walking disgrace."  I could scarcely believe my own senses when I turned and met a
kind look; the thing was so unusual, and so entirely unexpected that I questioned the reality
of it, but so it was.  It was the first touch of kindness which I had known for months; and
simple and trifling as the circumstance may appear to many, it went right to my heart, and
like the wing of an angel, troubled the waters in that stagnant pool of affection, and made
them once more reflect a little of the light of human love.  The person who touched my shoulder
was an entire stranger. I looked at him, wondering what his business was with me.  Regarding
me very earnestly, and apparently with much interest, he said:

"Mr. Gough, I believe?"

"That is my name," I replied, and was passing on.

"You have been drinking to-day," said the stranger, in a kind voice, which arrested my attention,
and quite dispelled any anger at what I might otherwise have considered an officious interference
in my affairs.

"Yes, sir," I replied.  "I have----"

"Why do you not sign the pledge?" was the next query.

I considered for a moment or two, and then informed the strange friend who had so unexpectedly
interested himself in my behalf that I had no hope of ever again becoming a sober man, and
that I was without a single friend in the world who cared for me; that I fully expected to
die very soon, cared not how soon, or whether I died drunk or sober, and, in fact, that I was
in a condition of utter recklessness.

The stranger regarded me with a benevolent look, took me by the arm, and asked me how I should
like to be as I once was, respectable and esteemed, well clad, and sitting as I used to, in
a place of worship; enabled to meet my friends as in old times, and receive from them the pleasant
nod of recognition as formerly; in fact, become a useful member of society?

"Oh," I replied, "I should like all these things first-rate; but I have no expectation that
such a thing will ever happen.  Such a change cannot be possible."

"Only sign our pledge," remarked my friend, "and I will warrant that it will be so.  Sign it,
and I will introduce you myself to good friends, who will feel an interest in your welfare
and take a pleasure in helping you to keep your good resolution.  Only, Mr. Gough, sign the
pledge, and all will be as I have said; ay, and more, too!"

Oh! how pleasantly fell these words of kindness and promise on my crushed and bruised heart.
I had long been a stranger to feelings such as now awoke in my bosom; a chord had been touched
which vibrated to the tone of woe.  Hope once more dawned; and I began to think, strange as
it appeared, that such things as my friend promised me might come to pass.  On the instant
I resolved to try, at least, and said to the stranger:

"Well, I will sign it."

"When?" he asked.

"I cannot do so to-night," I replied, "for I must have some more drink presently, but I certainly
will to-morrow."

"We have a temperance meeting to-morrow evening," he said; "will you sign it then?"

"I will."

"That is right," said he, grasping my hand; "I will be there to see you."

"You shall," I remarked, and we parted.

I went on my way much touched by the kind interest which at last some one had taken in my welfare.
I said to myself: "If it should be the last act of my life, I will perform my promise and sign
it, even though I die in the attempt, for that man has placed confidence in me, and on that
account I love him."

I then proceeded to a low groggery in Lincoln Square, and in the space of half an hour drank
several glasses of brandy; this in addition to what I had taken before made me very drunk,
and I staggered home as well as I could.

Arrived there, I threw myself on the bed and lay in a state of insensibility until morning.
The first thing which occurred to my mind on awaking was the promise I had made on the evening
before, to sign the pledge; and feeling, as I usually did on the morning succeeding a drunken
bout, wretched and desolate, I was almost sorry that I had agreed to do so.  My tongue was
dry, my throat parched, my temples throbbed as if they would burst, and I had a horrible burning
feeling in my stomach which almost maddened me, and I felt that I must have some bitters or
I should die.  So I yielded to my appetite, which would not be appeased, and repaired to the
same hotel where I had squandered away so many shillings before; there I drank three or four
times, until my nerves were a little strung, and then I went to work.

All that day the coming event of the evening was continually before my mind's eye, and it seemed
to me as if the appetite which had so long controlled me exerted more power over me than ever.
It grew stronger than I had any time known it, now that I was about to rid myself of it. Until
noon I struggled against its cravings, and then, unable to endure my misery any longer, I made
some excuse for leaving the shop, and went nearly a mile from it in order to procure one more
glass wherewith to appease the demon who had so tortured me.  The day wore wearily away, and
when evening came I determined, in spite of many a hesitation, to perform the promise I had
made to the stranger the night before.  The meeting was to be held at the lower town hall,
Worcester; and thither, clad in an old brown surtout, closely buttoned up to my chin that my
ragged habiliments beneath might not be visible, I went.  I took a place among the rest, and
when an opportunity of speaking offered itself, I requested permission to be heard, which was
readily granted.

When I stood up to relate my story, I was invited to the stand, to which I repaired, and on
turning to face the audience, I recognized my acquaintance who had asked me to sign.  It was
Mr. Joel Stratton.  He greeted me with a smile of approbation, which nerved and strengthened
me for my task, as I tremblingly observed every eye fixed upon me.  I lifted my quivering hand
and then and there told what rum had done for me.  I related how I was once respectable and
happy, and had a home, but that now I was a houseless, miserable, scathed, diseased, and blighted
outcast from society.  I had scarce a hope remaining to me of ever becoming that which I once
was, but, having promised to sign the pledge, I had determined not to break my word, and would
now affix my name to it.  In my palsied hand I with difficulty grasped the pen, and, in characters
almost as crooked as those of old Stephen Hopkins on the Declaration of Independence, I signed
the total abstinence pledge, and resolved to free myself from the inexorable tyrant.

Although still desponding and hopeless, I felt that I was relieved from a part of my heavy
load.  It was not because I deemed there was any supernatural power in the pledge which would
prevent my ever again falling into such depths of woe as I had already become acquainted with,
but the feeling of relief arose from the honest desire I entertained to keep a good resolution.
I had exerted a moral power which had long remained lying by perfectly useless.  The very idea
of what I had done strengthened and encouraged me.  Nor was this the only impulse given me
to proceed in my new pathway, for many who witnessed my signing and heard my simple statement
came forward, kindly grasped my hand, and expressed their satisfaction at the step I had taken.
A new and better day seemed already to have dawned upon me.

As I left the hall, agitated and enervated, I remember chuckling to myself, with great gratification,
"I have done it--I have done it!" There was a degree of pleasure in having put my foot on the
head of the tyrant who had so long led me captive at his will, but although I had "scotched
the snake," I had not killed him, for every inch of his frame was full of venomous vitality,
and I felt that all my caution was necessary to prevent his stinging me afresh.  I went home,
retired to bed, but in vain did I try to sleep.  I pondered upon the step I had taken, and
passed a restless night.  Knowing that I had voluntarily renounced drink, I endeavored to support
my sufferings, and resist the incessant craving of my remorseless appetite as well as I could,
but the struggle to overcome it was insupportably painful.  When I got up in the morning my
brain seemed as though it would burst with the intensity of its agony; my throat appeared as
if it were on fire; and in my stomach I experienced a dreadful burning sensation, as if the
fire of the pit had been kindled there.  My hands trembled so that to raise water to my feverish
lips was almost impossible.  I craved, literally gasped, for my accustomed stimulant, and felt
that I should die if I did not have it; but I persevered in my resolve, and withstood the temptations
which assailed me on every hand.

Still, during all this frightful time I experienced a feeling somewhat akin to satisfaction
at the position I had taken.  I made at least one step toward reformation.  I began to think
that it was barely possible I might see better days, and once more hold up my head in society.
Such feelings as these would alternate with gloomy forebodings and thick coming fancies of
approaching ill.  At one time hope, and at another fear, would predominate, but the raging,
dreadful, continued thirst was always present, to torture and tempt me.

After breakfast I proceeded to the shop where I was employed, feeling dreadfully ill.  I determined,
however, to put a bold face on the matter, and, in spite of the cloud which seemed to hang
over me, attempt work.  I was exceedingly weak, and fancied, as I almost reeled about the shop,
that every eye was fixed upon me suspiciously, although I exerted myself to the utmost to conceal
my agitation.  I was suffering; and those who have never thus suffered cannot comprehend it.
The shivering of the spine, then flushes of heat, causing every pore of the body to sting,
as if punctured with some sharp instrument; the horrible whisperings in the ear, combined with
a longing cry of the whole system for stimulants.  One glass of brandy would steady my shaking
nerves; I cannot hold my hand still; I cannot stand still.  A young man but twenty-five years
of age, and I have no control of my nerves; one glass of brandy would relieve this gnawing,
aching, throbbing stomach, but I have signed the pledge.  "I do agree that I will not use it;
and I must fight it out."  How I got through the day I cannot tell.  I went to my employer
and said:

"I signed the pledge last night."

"I know you did."

"I mean to keep it."

"So they all say, and I hope you will."

"You do not believe that I will; you have no confidence in me."

"None whatever."

I turned to my work, broken-hearted, crushed in spirit, paralyzed in energy, feeling how low
I had sunk in the esteem of prudent and sober-minded men.  Suddenly the small iron bar I had
in my hand began to move; I felt it move, I gripped it; still it moved and twisted; I gripped
still harder; yet the thing would move till I could feel it, yes, feel it, tearing the palm
out of my hand, then I dropped it, and there it lay, a curling, shiny snake!  I could hear
the paper shavings rustle as the horrible thing writhed before me!  If it had been a snake
I should not have minded it.  I was never afraid of a snake.  I should have called some one
to look at it, I could have killed it, I should not have been terrified at a thing; but I knew
it was a cold dead bar of iron, and there it was, with its green eyes, its forked, darting
tongue, curling in all its shiny loathsomeness, and the horror filled me so that my hair seemed
to stand up and shiver, and my skin lift from the scalp to the ankles, and I groaned out, "I
cannot fight this through!  Oh! my God, I shall die!" when a gentleman came into the shop with
a cheerful "Good-morning, Mr. Gough."

"Good-morning, sir."

"I saw you sign the pledge last night."

"Yes, sir, I did it."

"I was very glad to see you do it, and many young men followed your example.  It is such men
as you that we want, and I hope you will be the means of doing a great deal of good.  My office
is in the exchange; come in and see me.  I shall be happy to make your acquaintance.  I have
only a minute or two to spare, but I thought I would just call in and tell you to keep up a
brave heart.  Good-bye, God bless you.  Come in and see me."

