"We don't have dukes; or at any rate we don't keep them. Like to like is a motto which I always
find true. When I heard that you were living with a young lord, and were going to marry the
daughter of a marquis, and had a title of your own which you could use as soon as you pleased,
I knew that I should lose you." Then he added in a little whisper, "You couldn't get Crocker
made a duke, could you,--or a Registrar of Records?"

Mr. Jerningham was full of smiles and bows, pervaded thoroughly by a feeling that he was bidding
farewell to an august nobleman, though, for negative reasons, he was not to be allowed to gratify
his tongue by naming the august name. Crocker was a little shy;--but he plucked up his courage
at last. "I shall always know what I know, you know," he said, as he shook hands with the friend
to whom he had been so much attached. Bobbin and Geraghty made no allusions to the title, but
they, too, as they were severally greeted, were evidently under the influence of the nobility
of their late brother clerk.

The marriage was duly solemnized when March came in the parish church of Trafford. There was
nothing grand,--no even distant imitation of Lady Amaldina's glorious cavalcade. Hampstead
did come down, and endeavoured for the occasion to fit himself for the joy of the day. His
ship was ready for him, and he intended to start now in a week or two. As it happened that
the House was not sitting, Lord Llwddythlw, at the instigation of his wife, was present. "One
good turn deserves another," Lady Llwddythlw had said to him. And the darlings were there in
all their glory, loud, beautiful, and unruly. Lady Kingsbury was of course present; but was
too much in abeyance to be able to arouse even a sign of displeasure. Since that reference
to the "stumbling blocks" had reached her husband, and since those fears with which Mr. Greenwood
had filled her, she had been awed into quiescence.

The bridegroom was of course married under the simple name of George Roden,--and we must part
with him under that name; but it is the belief of the present chronicler that the aristocratic
element will prevail, and that the time will come soon in which the Registrar of State Records
to the Foreign Office will be known in the purlieus of Downing Street as the Duca di Crinola.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

   Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

   Volume I, Chapter I, paragraph 9. Trollope refers here and
   elsewhere to Lord Hampstead as Lady Kingsbury's son-in-law,
   although he is actually her stepson. This is not a example of
   carelessness by the author but an archaic use of "son-in-law"
   which persisted into the mid-nineteenth century.

   Volume I, Chapter XIX, paragraph 1.

   Specific changes in wording of the text are listed below.

      Volume I, Chapter XII, paragraph 42. "On" was changed to
      "Oh" in the sentence: "OH, no doubt!

      Volume I, Chapter III, paragraph 62. The word "began" was
      changed to "begun" in the sentence: In the horror of the
      first revelation he had yielded, but had since BEGUN to
      feel that too much was being done in withdrawing him from
      Parliament.

      Volume II, Chapter III, paragraph 82. A comma was changed
      to a semi-colon in the sentence: This was on a Tuesday; on
      the Wednesday he did not speak to her on the subject.

      Volume II, Chapter VI, paragraph 17. The word "live" was
      changed to "life" in the sentence: I have had to ask myself,
      and I have told myself that I do not dare to love above my
      station in LIFE.

      Volume II, Chapter VI, paragraph 31. The word "to" was added
      to the sentence: It may be that you should drive me away
      from you, and TO beg you never to trouble me any further.

