
It is the same with the imitation tapestry--the walls six inches thick, which neither keep
out the heat in summer, nor the cold in winter. All the other parts of modern dress and furniture
are comprised in my anathema, and will always continue to be so.

It is said that every thing is simplified and brought down to the reach of the most moderate
fortunes. That is true in one sense; that is to say, our confectioner has muslin curtains and
gilt rods at his windows, and his wife has a silk cloak as well as ourselves, because it is
become so thin that it is indeed accessible to every one, but it keeps no one warm. It is the
same with all the other stuffs. We must not deceive ourselves; we have gained nothing by all
these changes. Do not say, "So much the better, this is equality." By no means; equality is
not to be found here, any more than it is in England, or America, or anywhere, since it cannot
exist. The consequence of attempting it is, that you will have bad silks, bad satins, bad velvets,
and that is all.

The throne of fashion has encountered during the Revolution another throne, and it has been
shattered in consequence. The French people, amidst their dreams of equality, have lost their
own hands. The large and soft arm-chairs, the full and ample draperies, the cushions of eider
down, all the other delicacies which we alone understood of all the European family, led only
to the imprisonment of their possessors; and if you had the misfortune to inhabit a spacious
hotel, within a court, to avoid the odious noise and smells of the street, you had your throat
cut. That mode of treating elegant manners put them out of fashion; they were speedily abandoned,
and the barbarity of their successors still so lingers amongst us, that every day you see put
into the lumber-room an elegant Grecian chair which has broken your arm, and canopies which
smell of the stable, because they are stuffed with hay.

At that time, (1801,) the habits of good company were not yet extinct in Paris; of the old
company of France, and not of what is now termed good company, and which prevailed 30 years
ago only among postilions and stable-boys. At that period, men of good birth did not smoke
in the apartments of their wives, because they felt it to be a dirty and disgusting practice;
they generally washed their hands; when they went out to dine, or to pass the evening in a
house of their acquaintance, they bowed to the lady at its head in entering and retiring, and
did not appear so abstracted in their thoughts as to behave as they would have done in an hotel.
They were then careful not to turn their back on those with whom they conversed, so as to show
only an ear or the point of a nose to those whom they addressed. They spoke of something else,
besides those eternal politics on which no two can ever agree, and which give occasion only
to the interchange of bitter expressions. There has sprung from these endless disputes, disunion
in families, the dissolution of the oldest friendships, and the growth of hatred which will
continue till the grave. Experience proves that in these contests no one is ever convinced,
and that each goes away more than ever persuaded of the truth of his own opinions.

