By inspection into his horoscope, where five planets were in coition all at once with Scorpio
(Haec mira, satisque horrenda. Planetarum coitio sub Scorpio Asterismo in nona coeli statione,
quam Arabes religioni deputabant efficit Martinum Lutherum sacrilegum hereticum, Christianae
religionis hostem acerrimum atque prophanum, ex horoscopi directione ad Martis coitum, religiosissimus
obiit, ejus Anima scelestissima ad infernos navigavit--ab Alecto, Tisiphone & Megara flagellis
igneis cruciata perenniter.--Lucas Gaurieus in Tractatu astrologico de praeteritis multorum
hominum accidentibus per genituras examinatis.) (in reading this my father would always shake
his head) in the ninth house, with the Arabians allotted to religion--it appeared that Martin
Luther did not care one stiver about the matter--and that from the horoscope directed to the
conjunction of Mars--they made it plain likewise he must die cursing and blaspheming--with
the blast of which his soul (being steep'd in guilt) sailed before the wind, in the lake of
hell-fire.

The little objection of the Lutheran doctors to this, was, that it must certainly be the soul
of another man, born Oct. 22, 83. which was forced to sail down before the wind in that manner--inasmuch
as it appeared from the register of Islaben in the county of Mansfelt, that Luther was not
born in the year 1483, but in 84; and not on the 22d day of October, but on the 10th of November,
the eve of Martinmas day, from whence he had the name of Martin.

(--I must break off my translation for a moment; for if I did not, I know I should no more
be able to shut my eyes in bed, than the abbess of Quedlingberg--It is to tell the reader;
that my father never read this passage of Slawkenbergius to my uncle Toby, but with triumph--not
over my uncle Toby, for he never opposed him in it--but over the whole world.

--Now you see, brother Toby, he would say, looking up, 'that christian names are not such indifferent
things;'--had Luther here been called by any other name but Martin, he would have been damn'd
to all eternity--Not that I look upon Martin, he would add, as a good name--far from it--'tis
something better than a neutral, and but a little--yet little as it is you see it was of some
service to him.

My father knew the weakness of this prop to his hypothesis, as well as the best logician could
shew him--yet so strange is the weakness of man at the same time, as it fell in his way, he
could not for his life but make use of it; and it was certainly for this reason, that though
there are many stories in Hafen Slawkenbergius's Decades full as entertaining as this I am
translating, yet there is not one amongst them which my father read over with half the delight--it
flattered two of his strangest hypotheses together--his Names and his Noses.--I will be bold
to say, he might have read all the books in the Alexandrian Library, had not fate taken other
care of them, and not have met with a book or passage in one, which hit two such nails as these
upon the head at one stroke.)

The two universities of Strasburg were hard tugging at this affair of Luther's navigation.
The Protestant doctors had demonstrated, that he had not sailed right before the wind, as the
Popish doctors had pretended; and as every one knew there was no sailing full in the teeth
of it--they were going to settle, in case he had sailed, how many points he was off; whether
Martin had doubled the cape, or had fallen upon a lee-shore; and no doubt, as it was an enquiry
of much edification, at least to those who understood this sort of Navigation, they had gone
on with it in spite of the size of the stranger's nose, had not the size of the stranger's
nose drawn off the attention of the world from what they were about--it was their business
to follow.

The abbess of Quedlingberg and her four dignitaries was no stop; for the enormity of the stranger's
nose running full as much in their fancies as their case of conscience--the affair of their
placket-holes kept cold--in a word, the printers were ordered to distribute their types--all
controversies dropp'd.

'Twas a square cap with a silver tassel upon the crown of it--to a nut-shell--to have guessed
on which side of the nose the two universities would split.

'Tis above reason, cried the doctors on one side.

'Tis below reason, cried the others.

'Tis faith, cried one.

'Tis a fiddle-stick, said the other.

'Tis possible, cried the one.

'Tis impossible, said the other.

God's power is infinite, cried the Nosarians, he can do any thing.

He can do nothing, replied the Anti-nosarians, which implies contradictions.

He can make matter think, said the Nosarians.

As certainly as you can make a velvet cap out of a sow's ear, replied the Anti-nosarians.

He cannot make two and two five, replied the Popish doctors.--'Tis false, said their other
opponents.--

Infinite power is infinite power, said the doctors who maintained the reality of the nose.--It
extends only to all possible things, replied the Lutherans.

By God in heaven, cried the Popish doctors, he can make a nose, if he thinks fit, as big as
the steeple of Strasburg.

Now the steeple of Strasburg being the biggest and the tallest church-steeple to be seen in
the whole world, the Anti-nosarians denied that a nose of 575 geometrical feet in length could
be worn, at least by a middle-siz'd man--The Popish doctors swore it could--The Lutheran doctors
said No;--it could not.

This at once started a new dispute, which they pursued a great way, upon the extent and limitation
of the moral and natural attributes of God--That controversy led them naturally into Thomas
Aquinas, and Thomas Aquinas to the devil.

The stranger's nose was no more heard of in the dispute--it just served as a frigate to launch
them into the gulph of school-divinity--and then they all sailed before the wind.

Heat is in proportion to the want of true knowledge.

The controversy about the attributes, &c. instead of cooling, on the contrary had inflamed
the Strasburgers imaginations to a most inordinate degree--The less they understood of the
matter the greater was their wonder about it--they were left in all the distresses of desire
unsatisfied--saw their doctors, the Parchmentarians, the Brassarians, the Turpentarians, on
one side--the Popish doctors on the other, like Pantagruel and his companions in quest of the
oracle of the bottle, all embarked out of sight.

--The poor Strasburgers left upon the beach!

--What was to be done?--No delay--the uproar increased--every one in disorder--the city gates
set open.--

Unfortunate Strasbergers! was there in the store-house of nature--was there in the lumber-rooms
of learning--was there in the great arsenal of chance, one single engine left undrawn forth
to torture your curiosities, and stretch your desires, which was not pointed by the hand of
Fate to play upon your hearts?--I dip not my pen into my ink to excuse the surrender of yourselves--'tis
to write your panegyrick. Shew me a city so macerated with expectation--who neither eat, or
drank, or slept, or prayed, or hearkened to the calls either of religion or nature, for seven-and-twenty
days together, who could have held out one day longer.

On the twenty-eighth the courteous stranger had promised to return to Strasburg.

Seven thousand coaches (Slawkenbergius must certainly have made some mistake in his numeral
characters) 7000 coaches--15000 single-horse chairs--20000 waggons, crowded as full as they
could all hold with senators, counsellors, syndicks--beguines, widows, wives, virgins, canons,
concubines, all in their coaches--The abbess of Quedlingberg, with the prioress, the deaness
and sub-chantress, leading the procession in one coach, and the dean of Strasburg, with the
four great dignitaries of his chapter, on her left-hand--the rest following higglety-pigglety
as they could; some on horseback--some on foot--some led--some driven--some down the Rhine--some
this way--some that--all set out at sun-rise to meet the courteous stranger on the road.

Haste we now towards the catastrophe of my tale--I say Catastrophe (cries Slawkenbergius) inasmuch
as a tale, with parts rightly disposed, not only rejoiceth (gaudet) in the Catastrophe and
Peripeitia of a Drama, but rejoiceth moreover in all the essential and integrant parts of it--it
has its Protasis, Epitasis, Catastasis, its Catastrophe or Peripeitia growing one out of the
other in it, in the order Aristotle first planted them--without which a tale had better never
be told at all, says Slawkenbergius, but be kept to a man's self.

In all my ten tales, in all my ten decades, have I Slawkenbergius tied down every tale of them
as tightly to this rule, as I have done this of the stranger and his nose.

--From his first parley with the centinel, to his leaving the city of Strasburg, after pulling
off his crimson-sattin pair of breeches, is the Protasis or first entrance--where the characters
of the Personae Dramatis are just touched in, and the subject slightly begun.

The Epitasis, wherein the action is more fully entered upon and heightened, till it arrives
at its state or height called the Catastasis, and which usually takes up the 2d and 3d act,
is included within that busy period of my tale, betwixt the first night's uproar about the
nose, to the conclusion of the trumpeter's wife's lectures upon it in the middle of the grand
parade: and from the first embarking of the learned in the dispute--to the doctors finally
sailing away, and leaving the Strasburgers upon the beach in distress, is the Catastasis or
the ripening of the incidents and passions for their bursting forth in the fifth act.

This commences with the setting out of the Strasburgers in the Frankfort road, and terminates
in unwinding the labyrinth and bringing the hero out of a state of agitation (as Aristotle
calls it) to a state of rest and quietness.

This, says Hafen Slawkenbergius, constitutes the Catastrophe or Peripeitia of my tale--and
that is the part of it I am going to relate.

We left the stranger behind the curtain asleep--he enters now upon the stage.

--What dost thou prick up thy ears at?--'tis nothing but a man upon a horse--was the last word
the stranger uttered to his mule. It was not proper then to tell the reader, that the mule
took his master's word for it; and without any more ifs or ands, let the traveller and his
horse pass by.

The traveller was hastening with all diligence to get to Strasburg that night. What a fool
am I, said the traveller to himself, when he had rode about a league farther, to think of getting
into Strasburg this night.--Strasburg!--the great Strasburg!--Strasburg, the capital of all
Alsatia! Strasburg, an imperial city! Strasburg, a sovereign state! Strasburg, garrisoned with
five thousand of the best troops in all the world!--Alas! if I was at the gates of Strasburg
this moment, I could not gain admittance into it for a ducat--nay a ducat and half--'tis too
much--better go back to the last inn I have passed--than lie I know not where--or give I know
not what. The traveller, as he made these reflections in his mind, turned his horse's head
about, and three minutes after the stranger had been conducted into his chamber, he arrived
at the same inn.

--We have bacon in the house, said the host, and bread--and till eleven o'clock this night
had three eggs in it--but a stranger, who arrived an hour ago, has had them dressed into an
omelet, and we have nothing.--

Alas! said the traveller, harassed as I am, I want nothing but a bed.--I have one as soft as
is in Alsatia, said the host.

--The stranger, continued he, should have slept in it, for 'tis my best bed, but upon the score
of his nose.--He has got a defluxion, said the traveller.--Not that I know, cried the host.--But
'tis a camp-bed, and Jacinta, said he, looking towards the maid, imagined there was not room
in it to turn his nose in.--Why so? cried the traveller, starting back.--It is so long a nose,
replied the host.--The traveller fixed his eyes upon Jacinta, then upon the ground--kneeled
upon his right knee--had just got his hand laid upon his breast--Trifle not with my anxiety,
said he rising up again.--'Tis no trifle, said Jacinta, 'tis the most glorious nose!--The traveller
fell upon his knee again--laid his hand upon his breast--then, said he, looking up to heaven,
thou hast conducted me to the end of my pilgrimage--'Tis Diego.

The traveller was the brother of the Julia, so often invoked that night by the stranger as
he rode from Strasburg upon his mule; and was come, on her part, in quest of him. He had accompanied
his sister from Valadolid across the Pyrenean mountains through France, and had many an entangled
skein to wind off in pursuit of him through the many meanders and abrupt turnings of a lover's
thorny tracks.

--Julia had sunk under it--and had not been able to go a step farther than to Lyons, where,
with the many disquietudes of a tender heart, which all talk of--but few feel--she sicken'd,
but had just strength to write a letter to Diego; and having conjured her brother never to
see her face till he had found him out, and put the letter into his hands, Julia took to her bed.

Fernandez (for that was her brother's name)--tho' the camp-bed was as soft as any one in Alsace,
yet he could not shut his eyes in it.--As soon as it was day he rose, and hearing Diego was
risen too, he entered his chamber, and discharged his sister's commission.

The letter was as follows:

'Seig. Diego,

'Whether my suspicions of your nose were justly excited or not--'tis not now to inquire--it
is enough I have not had firmness to put them to farther tryal.

'How could I know so little of myself, when I sent my Duenna to forbid your coming more under
my lattice? or how could I know so little of you, Diego, as to imagine you would not have staid
one day in Valadolid to have given ease to my doubts?--Was I to be abandoned, Diego, because
I was deceived? or was it kind to take me at my word, whether my suspicions were just or no,
and leave me, as you did, a prey to much uncertainty and sorrow?

'In what manner Julia has resented this--my brother, when he puts this letter into your hands,
will tell you; He will tell you in how few moments she repented of the rash message she had
sent you--in what frantic haste she flew to her lattice, and how many days and nights together
she leaned immoveably upon her elbow, looking through it towards the way which Diego was wont
to come.

'He will tell you, when she heard of your departure--how her spirits deserted her--how her
heart sicken'd--how piteously she mourned--how low she hung her head. O Diego! how many weary
steps has my brother's pity led me by the hand languishing to trace out yours; how far has
desire carried me beyond strength--and how oft have I fainted by the way, and sunk into his
arms, with only power to cry out--O my Diego!

'If the gentleness of your carriage has not belied your heart, you will fly to me, almost as
fast as you fled from me--haste as you will--you will arrive but to see me expire.--'Tis a
bitter draught, Diego, but oh! 'tis embittered still more by dying un...--'

She could proceed no farther.

Slawkenbergius supposes the word intended was unconvinced, but her strength would not enable
her to finish her letter.

The heart of the courteous Diego over-flowed as he read the letter--he ordered his mule forthwith
and Fernandez's horse to be saddled; and as no vent in prose is equal to that of poetry in
such conflicts--chance, which as often directs us to remedies as to diseases, having thrown
a piece of charcoal into the window--Diego availed himself of it, and whilst the hostler was
getting ready his mule, he eased his mind against the wall as follows.

Ode.

     Harsh and untuneful are the notes of love,
     Unless my Julia strikes the key,
     Her hand alone can touch the part,
     Whose dulcet movement charms the heart,
     And governs all the man with sympathetick sway.

2d.

O Julia!

The lines were very natural--for they were nothing at all to the purpose, says Slawkenbergius,
and 'tis a pity there were no more of them; but whether it was that Seig. Diego was slow in
composing verses--or the hostler quick in saddling mules--is not averred; certain it was, that
Diego's mule and Fernandez's horse were ready at the door of the inn, before Diego was ready
for his second stanza; so without staying to finish his ode, they both mounted, sallied forth,
passed the Rhine, traversed Alsace, shaped their course towards Lyons, and before the Strasburgers
and the abbess of Quedlingberg had set out on their cavalcade, had Fernandez, Diego, and his
Julia, crossed the Pyrenean mountains, and got safe to Valadolid.

'Tis needless to inform the geographical reader, that when Diego was in Spain, it was not possible
to meet the courteous stranger in the Frankfort road; it is enough to say, that of all restless
desires, curiosity being the strongest--the Strasburgers felt the full force of it; and that
for three days and nights they were tossed to and fro in the Frankfort road, with the tempestuous
fury of this passion, before they could submit to return home.--When alas! an event was prepared
for them, of all other, the most grievous that could befal a free people.

As this revolution of the Strasburgers affairs is often spoken of, and little understood, I
will, in ten words, says Slawkenbergius, give the world an explanation of it, and with it put
an end to my tale.

Every body knows of the grand system of Universal Monarchy, wrote by order of Mons. Colbert,
and put in manuscript into the hands of Lewis the fourteenth, in the year 1664.

'Tis as well known, that one branch out of many of that system, was the getting possession
of Strasburg, to favour an entrance at all times into Suabia, in order to disturb the quiet
of Germany--and that in consequence of this plan, Strasburg unhappily fell at length into their
hands.

It is the lot of a few to trace out the true springs of this and such like revolutions--The
vulgar look too high for them--Statesmen look too low--Truth (for once) lies in the middle.

What a fatal thing is the popular pride of a free city! cries one historian--The Strasburgers
deemed it a diminution of their freedom to receive an imperial garrison--so fell a prey to
a French one.

The fate, says another, of the Strasburgers, may be a warning to all free people to save their
money.--They anticipated their revenues--brought themselves under taxes, exhausted their strength,
and in the end became so weak a people, they had not strength to keep their gates shut, and
so the French pushed them open.

Alas! alas! cries Slawkenbergius, 'twas not the French,--'twas Curiosity pushed them open--The
French indeed, who are ever upon the catch, when they saw the Strasburgers, men, women and
children, all marched out to follow the stranger's nose--each man followed his own, and marched in.

Trade and manufactures have decayed and gradually grown down ever since--but not from any cause
which commercial heads have assigned; for it is owing to this only, that Noses have ever so
run in their heads, that the Strasburgers could not follow their business.

Alas! alas! cries Slawkenbergius, making an exclamation--it is not the first--and I fear will
not be the last fortress that has been either won--or lost by Noses.

The End of Slawkenbergius's Tale.

Chapter 2.XXXVI.

With all this learning upon Noses running perpetually in my father's fancy--with so many family
prejudices--and ten decades of such tales running on for ever along with them--how was it possible
with such exquisite--was it a true nose?--That a man with such exquisite feelings as my father
had, could bear the shock at all below stairs--or indeed above stairs, in any other posture,
but the very posture I have described?

--Throw yourself down upon the bed, a dozen times--taking care only to place a looking-glass
first in a chair on one side of it, before you do it--But was the stranger's nose a true nose,
or was it a false one?

To tell that before-hand, madam, would be to do injury to one of the best tales in the Christian-world;
and that is the tenth of the tenth decade, which immediately follows this.

This tale, cried Slawkenbergius, somewhat exultingly, has been reserved by me for the concluding
tale of my whole work; knowing right well, that when I shall have told it, and my reader shall
have read it thro'--'twould be even high time for both of us to shut up the book; inasmuch,
continues Slawkenbergius, as I know of no tale which could possibly ever go down after it.

'Tis a tale indeed!

This sets out with the first interview in the inn at Lyons, when Fernandez left the courteous
stranger and his sister Julia alone in her chamber, and is over-written.

The Intricacies of Diego and Julia.

Heavens! thou art a strange creature, Slawkenbergius! what a whimsical view of the involutions
of the heart of woman hast thou opened! how this can ever be translated, and yet if this specimen
of Slawkenbergius's tales, and the exquisitiveness of his moral, should please the world--translated
shall a couple of volumes be.--Else, how this can ever be translated into good English, I have
no sort of conception--There seems in some passages to want a sixth sense to do it rightly.--What
can he mean by the lambent pupilability of slow, low, dry chat, five notes below the natural
tone--which you know, madam, is little more than a whisper? The moment I pronounced the words,
I could perceive an attempt towards a vibration in the strings, about the region of the heart.--The
brain made no acknowledgment.--There's often no good understanding betwixt 'em--I felt as if
I understood it.--I had no ideas.--The movement could not be without cause.--I'm lost. I can
make nothing of it--unless, may it please your worships, the voice, in that case being little
more than a whisper, unavoidably forces the eyes to approach not only within six inches of
each other--but to look into the pupils--is not that dangerous?--But it can't be avoided--for
to look up to the cieling, in that case the two chins unavoidably meet--and to look down into
each other's lap, the foreheads come to immediate contact, which at once puts an end to the
conference--I mean to the sentimental part of it.--What is left, madam, is not worth stooping for.

Chapter 2.XXXVII.

My father lay stretched across the bed as still as if the hand of death had pushed him down,
for a full hour and a half before he began to play upon the floor with the toe of that foot
which hung over the bed-side; my uncle Toby's heart was a pound lighter for it.--In a few moments,
his left-hand, the knuckles of which had all the time reclined upon the handle of the chamber-pot,
came to its feeling--he thrust it a little more within the valance--drew up his hand, when
he had done, into his bosom--gave a hem! My good uncle Toby, with infinite pleasure, answered
it; and full gladly would have ingrafted a sentence of consolation upon the opening it afforded:
but having no talents, as I said, that way, and fearing moreover that he might set out with
something which might make a bad matter worse, he contented himself with resting his chin placidly
upon the cross of his crutch.

Now whether the compression shortened my uncle Toby's face into a more pleasurable oval--or
that the philanthropy of his heart, in seeing his brother beginning to emerge out of the sea
of his afflictions, had braced up his muscles--so that the compression upon his chin only doubled
the benignity which was there before, is not hard to decide.--My father, in turning his eyes,
was struck with such a gleam of sun-shine in his face, as melted down the sullenness of his
grief in a moment.

He broke silence as follows:

Chapter 2.XXXVIII.

Did ever man, brother Toby, cried my father, raising himself upon his elbow, and turning himself
round to the opposite side of the bed, where my uncle Toby was sitting in his old fringed chair,
with his chin resting upon his crutch--did ever a poor unfortunate man, brother Toby, cried
my father, receive so many lashes?--The most I ever saw given, quoth my uncle Toby (ringing
the bell at the bed's head for Trim) was to a grenadier, I think in Mackay's regiment.

--Had my uncle Toby shot a bullet through my father's heart, he could not have fallen down
with his nose upon the quilt more suddenly.

Bless me! said my uncle Toby.

Chapter 2.XXXIX.

Was it Mackay's regiment, quoth my uncle Toby, where the poor grenadier was so unmercifully
whipp'd at Bruges about the ducats?--O Christ! he was innocent! cried Trim, with a deep sigh.--And
he was whipp'd, may it please your honour, almost to death's door.--They had better have shot
him outright, as he begg'd, and he had gone directly to heaven, for he was as innocent as your
honour.--I thank thee, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby.--I never think of his, continued Trim, and
my poor brother Tom's misfortunes, for we were all three school-fellows, but I cry like a coward.--Tears
are no proof of cowardice, Trim.--I drop them oft-times myself, cried my uncle Toby.--I know
your honour does, replied Trim, and so am not ashamed of it myself.--But to think, may it please
your honour, continued Trim, a tear stealing into the corner of his eye as he spoke--to think
of two virtuous lads with hearts as warm in their bodies, and as honest as God could make them--the
children of honest people, going forth with gallant spirits to seek their fortunes in the world--and
fall into such evils!--poor Tom! to be tortured upon a rack for nothing--but marrying a Jew's
widow who sold sausages--honest Dick Johnson's soul to be scourged out of his body, for the
ducats another man put into his knapsack!--O!--these are misfortunes, cried Trim,--pulling
out his handkerchief--these are misfortunes, may it please your honour, worth lying down and
crying over.

--My father could not help blushing.

'Twould be a pity, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, thou shouldst ever feel sorrow of thy own--thou
feelest it so tenderly for others.--Alack-o-day, replied the corporal, brightening up his face--your
honour knows I have neither wife or child--I can have no sorrows in this world.--My father
could not help smiling.--As few as any man, Trim, replied my uncle Toby; nor can I see how
a fellow of thy light heart can suffer, but from the distress of poverty in thy old age--when
thou art passed all services, Trim--and hast outlived thy friends.--An' please your honour,
never fear, replied Trim, chearily.--But I would have thee never fear, Trim, replied my uncle
Toby, and therefore, continued my uncle Toby, throwing down his crutch, and getting up upon
his legs as he uttered the word therefore--in recompence, Trim, of thy long fidelity to me,
and that goodness of thy heart I have had such proofs of--whilst thy master is worth a shilling--thou
shalt never ask elsewhere, Trim, for a penny. Trim attempted to thank my uncle Toby--but had
not power--tears trickled down his cheeks faster than he could wipe them off--He laid his hands
upon his breast--made a bow to the ground, and shut the door.

--I have left Trim my bowling-green, cried my uncle Toby--My father smiled.--I have left him
moreover a pension, continued my uncle Toby.--My father looked grave.

Chapter 2.XL.

Is this a fit time, said my father to himself, to talk of Pensions and Grenadiers?

Chapter 2.XLI.

When my uncle Toby first mentioned the grenadier, my father, I said, fell down with his nose
flat to the quilt, and as suddenly as if my uncle Toby had shot him; but it was not added that
every other limb and member of my father instantly relapsed with his nose into the same precise
attitude in which he lay first described; so that when corporal Trim left the room, and my
father found himself disposed to rise off the bed--he had all the little preparatory movements
to run over again, before he could do it. Attitudes are nothing, madam--'tis the transition
from one attitude to another--like the preparation and resolution of the discord into harmony,
which is all in all.

For which reason my father played the same jig over again with his toe upon the floor--pushed
the chamber-pot still a little farther within the valance--gave a hem--raised himself up upon
his elbow--and was just beginning to address himself to my uncle Toby--when recollecting the
unsuccessfulness of his first effort in that attitude--he got upon his legs, and in making
the third turn across the room, he stopped short before my uncle Toby; and laying the three
first fingers of his right-hand in the palm of his left, and stooping a little, he addressed
himself to my uncle Toby as follows:

Chapter 2.XLII.

When I reflect, brother Toby, upon Man; and take a view of that dark side of him which represents
his life as open to so many causes of trouble--when I consider, brother Toby, how oft we eat
the bread of affliction, and that we are born to it, as to the portion of our inheritance--I
was born to nothing, quoth my uncle Toby, interrupting my father--but my commission. Zooks!
said my father, did not my uncle leave you a hundred and twenty pounds a year?--What could
I have done without it? replied my uncle Toby--That's another concern, said my father testily--But
I say Toby, when one runs over the catalogue of all the cross-reckonings and sorrowful Items
with which the heart of man is overcharged, 'tis wonderful by what hidden resources the mind
is enabled to stand out, and bear itself up, as it does, against the impositions laid upon
our nature.--'Tis by the assistance of Almighty God, cried my uncle Toby, looking up, and pressing
the palms of his hands close together--'tis not from our own strength, brother Shandy--a centinel
in a wooden centry-box might as well pretend to stand it out against a detachment of fifty
men.--We are upheld by the grace and the assistance of the best of Beings.

--That is cutting the knot, said my father, instead of untying it,--But give me leave to lead
you, brother Toby, a little deeper into the mystery.

With all my heart, replied my uncle Toby.

My father instantly exchanged the attitude he was in, for that in which Socrates is so finely
painted by Raffael in his school of Athens; which your connoisseurship knows is so exquisitely
imagined, that even the particular manner of the reasoning of Socrates is expressed by it--for
he holds the fore-finger of his left-hand between the fore-finger and the thumb of his right,
and seems as if he was saying to the libertine he is reclaiming--'You grant me this--and this:
and this, and this, I don't ask of you--they follow of themselves in course.'

So stood my father, holding fast his fore-finger betwixt his finger and his thumb, and reasoning
with my uncle Toby as he sat in his old fringed chair, valanced around with party-coloured
worsted bobs--O Garrick!--what a rich scene of this would thy exquisite powers make! and how
gladly would I write such another to avail myself of thy immortality, and secure my own behind it.

Chapter 2.XLIII.

Though man is of all others the most curious vehicle, said my father, yet at the same time
'tis of so slight a frame, and so totteringly put together, that the sudden jerks and hard
jostlings it unavoidably meets with in this rugged journey, would overset and tear it to pieces
a dozen times a day--was it not, brother Toby, that there is a secret spring within us.--Which
spring, said my uncle Toby, I take to be Religion.--Will that set my child's nose on? cried
my father, letting go his finger, and striking one hand against the other.--It makes every
thing straight for us, answered my uncle Toby.--Figuratively speaking, dear Toby, it may, for
aught I know, said my father; but the spring I am speaking of, is that great and elastic power
within us of counterbalancing evil, which, like a secret spring in a well-ordered machine,
though it can't prevent the shock--at least it imposes upon our sense of it.

Now, my dear brother, said my father, replacing his fore-finger, as he was coming closer to
the point--had my child arrived safe into the world, unmartyr'd in that precious part of him--fanciful
and extravagant as I may appear to the world in my opinion of christian names, and of that
magic bias which good or bad names irresistibly impress upon our characters and conducts--Heaven
is witness! that in the warmest transports of my wishes for the prosperity of my child, I never
once wished to crown his head with more glory and honour than what George or Edward would have
spread around it.

But alas! continued my father, as the greatest evil has befallen him--I must counteract and
undo it with the greatest good.

He shall be christened Trismegistus, brother.

I wish it may answer--replied my uncle Toby, rising up.

Chapter 2.XLIV.

What a chapter of chances, said my father, turning himself about upon the first landing, as
he and my uncle Toby were going down stairs, what a long chapter of chances do the events of
this world lay open to us! Take pen and ink in hand, brother Toby, and calculate it fairly--I
know no more of calculation than this balluster, said my uncle Toby (striking short of it with
his crutch, and hitting my father a desperate blow souse upon his shin-bone)--'Twas a hundred
to one-cried my uncle Toby--I thought, quoth my father, (rubbing his shin) you had known nothing
of calculations, brother Toby. A mere chance, said my uncle Toby.--Then it adds one to the
chapter--replied my father.

The double success of my father's repartees tickled off the pain of his shin at once--it was
well it so fell out--(chance! again)--or the world to this day had never known the subject
of my father's calculation--to guess it--there was no chance--What a lucky chapter of chances
has this turned out! for it has saved me the trouble of writing one express, and in truth I
have enough already upon my hands without it.--Have not I promised the world a chapter of knots?
two chapters upon the right and the wrong end of a woman? a chapter upon whiskers? a chapter
upon wishes?--a chapter of noses?--No, I have done that--a chapter upon my uncle Toby's modesty?
to say nothing of a chapter upon chapters, which I will finish before I sleep--by my great
grandfather's whiskers, I shall never get half of 'em through this year.

Take pen and ink in hand, and calculate it fairly, brother Toby, said my father, and it will
turn out a million to one, that of all the parts of the body, the edge of the forceps should
have the ill luck just to fall upon and break down that one part, which should break down the
fortunes of our house with it.

It might have been worse, replied my uncle Toby.--I don't comprehend, said my father.--Suppose
the hip had presented, replied my uncle Toby, as Dr. Slop foreboded.

My father reflected half a minute--looked down--touched the middle of his forehead slightly
with his finger--

--True, said he.

Chapter 2.XLV.

Is it not a shame to make two chapters of what passed in going down one pair of stairs? for
we are got no farther yet than to the first landing, and there are fifteen more steps down
to the bottom; and for aught I know, as my father and my uncle Toby are in a talking humour,
there may be as many chapters as steps:--let that be as it will, Sir, I can no more help it
than my destiny:--A sudden impulse comes across me--drop the curtain, Shandy--I drop it--Strike
a line here across the paper, Tristram--I strike it--and hey for a new chapter.

The deuce of any other rule have I to govern myself by in this affair--and if I had one--as
I do all things out of all rule--I would twist it and tear it to pieces, and throw it into
the fire when I had done--Am I warm? I am, and the cause demands it--a pretty story! is a man
to follow rules--or rules to follow him?

Now this, you must know, being my chapter upon chapters, which I promised to write before I
went to sleep, I thought it meet to ease my conscience entirely before I laid down, by telling
the world all I knew about the matter at once: Is not this ten times better than to set out
dogmatically with a sententious parade of wisdom, and telling the world a story of a roasted
horse--that chapters relieve the mind--that they assist--or impose upon the imagination--and
that in a work of this dramatic cast they are as necessary as the shifting of scenes--with
fifty other cold conceits, enough to extinguish the fire which roasted him?--O! but to understand
this, which is a puff at the fire of Diana's temple--you must read Longinus--read away--if
you are not a jot the wiser by reading him the first time over--never fear--read him again--Avicenna
and Licetus read Aristotle's metaphysicks forty times through a-piece, and never understood
a single word.--But mark the consequence--Avicenna turned out a desperate writer at all kinds
of writing--for he wrote books de omni scribili; and for Licetus (Fortunio) though all the
world knows he was born a foetus, (Ce Foetus n'etoit pas plus grand que la paume de la main;
mais son pere l'ayant examine en qualite de Medecin, & ayant trouve que c'etoit quelque chose
de plus qu'un Embryon, le fit transporter tout vivant a Rapallo, ou il le fit voir a Jerome
Bardi & a d'autres Medecins du lieu. On trouva qu'il ne lui manquoit rien d'essentiel a la
vie; & son pere pour faire voir un essai de son experience, entreprit d'achever l'ouvrage de
la Nature, & de travailler a la formation de l'Enfant avec le meme artifice que celui dont
on se sert pour faire ecclorre les Poulets en Egypte. Il instruisit une Nourisse de tout ce
qu'elle avoit a faire, & ayant fait mettre son fils dans un pour proprement accommode, il reussit
a l'elever & a lui faire prendre ses accroissemens necessaires, par l'uniformite d'une chaleur
etrangere mesuree exactement sur les degres d'un Thermometre, ou d'un autre instrument equivalent.
(Vide Mich. Giustinian, ne gli Scritt. Liguri a 223. 488.) On auroit toujours ete tres satisfait
de l'industrie d'un pere si experimente dans l'Art de la Generation, quand il n'auroit pu prolonger
la vie a son fils que pour Puelques mois, ou pour peu d'annees. Mais quand on se represente
que l'Enfant a vecu pres de quatre-vingts ans, & qu'il a compose quatre-vingts Ouvrages differents
tous fruits d'une longue lecture--il faut convenir que tout ce qui est incroyable n'est pas
toujours faux, & que la Vraisemblance n'est pas toujours du cote la Verite. Il n'avoit que
dix neuf ans lorsqu'il composa Gonopsychanthropologia de Origine Animae humanae. (Les Enfans
celebres, revus & corriges par M. de la Monnoye de l'Academie Francoise.)) of no more than
five inches and a half in length, yet he grew to that astonishing height in literature, as
to write a book with a title as long as himself--the learned know I mean his Gonopsychanthropologia,
upon the origin of the human soul.

So much for my chapter upon chapters, which I hold to be the best chapter in my whole work;
and take my word, whoever reads it, is full as well employed, as in picking straws.

Chapter 2.XLVI.

We shall bring all things to rights, said my father, setting his foot upon the first step from
the landing.--This Trismegistus, continued my father, drawing his leg back and turning to my
uncle Toby--was the greatest (Toby) of all earthly beings--he was the greatest king--the greatest
lawgiver--the greatest philosopher--and the greatest priest--and engineer--said my uncle Toby.

--In course, said my father.

Chapter 2.XLVII.

--And how does your mistress? cried my father, taking the same step over again from the landing,
and calling to Susannah, whom he saw passing by the foot of the stairs with a huge pin-cushion
in her hand--how does your mistress? As well, said Susannah, tripping by, but without looking
up, as can be expected.--What a fool am I! said my father, drawing his leg back again--let
things be as they will, brother Toby, 'tis ever the precise answer--And how is the child, pray?--No
answer. And where is Dr. Slop? added my father, raising his voice aloud, and looking over the
ballusters--Susannah was out of hearing.

Of all the riddles of a married life, said my father, crossing the landing in order to set
his back against the wall, whilst he propounded it to my uncle Toby--of all the puzzling riddles,
said he, in a marriage state,--of which you may trust me, brother Toby, there are more asses
loads than all Job's stock of asses could have carried--there is not one that has more intricacies
in it than this--that from the very moment the mistress of the house is brought to bed, every
female in it, from my lady's gentlewoman down to the cinder-wench, becomes an inch taller for
it; and give themselves more airs upon that single inch, than all their other inches put together.

I think rather, replied my uncle Toby, that 'tis we who sink an inch lower.--If I meet but
a woman with child--I do it.--'Tis a heavy tax upon that half of our fellow-creatures, brother
Shandy, said my uncle Toby--'Tis a piteous burden upon 'em, continued he, shaking his head--Yes,
yes, 'tis a painful thing--said my father, shaking his head too--but certainly since shaking
of heads came into fashion, never did two heads shake together, in concert, from two such different
springs.

God bless / Deuce take 'em all--said my uncle Toby and my father, each to himself.

Chapter 2.XVLIII.

Holla!--you, chairman!--here's sixpence--do step into that bookseller's shop, and call me a
day-tall critick. I am very willing to give any one of 'em a crown to help me with his tackling,
to get my father and my uncle Toby off the stairs, and to put them to bed.

--'Tis even high time; for except a short nap, which they both got whilst Trim was boring the
jack-boots--and which, by-the-bye, did my father no sort of good, upon the score of the bad
hinge--they have not else shut their eyes, since nine hours before the time that doctor Slop
was led into the back parlour in that dirty pickle by Obadiah.

Was every day of my life to be as busy a day as this--and to take up--Truce.

I will not finish that sentence till I have made an observation upon the strange state of affairs
between the reader and myself, just as things stand at present--an observation never applicable
before to any one biographical writer since the creation of the world, but to myself--and I
believe, will never hold good to any other, until its final destruction--and therefore, for
the very novelty of it alone, it must be worth your worships attending to.

I am this month one whole year older than I was this time twelve-month; and having got, as
you perceive, almost into the middle of my third volume (According to the preceding Editions.)--and
no farther than to my first day's life--'tis demonstrative that I have three hundred and sixty-four
days more life to write just now, than when I first set out; so that instead of advancing,
as a common writer, in my work with what I have been doing at it--on the contrary, I am just
thrown so many volumes back--was every day of my life to be as busy a day as this--And why
not?--and the transactions and opinions of it to take up as much description--And for what
reason should they be cut short? as at this rate I should just live 364 times faster than I
should write--It must follow, an' please your worships, that the more I write, the more I shall
have to write--and consequently, the more your worships read, the more your worships will have
to read.

Will this be good for your worships eyes?

It will do well for mine; and, was it not that my Opinions will be the death of me, I perceive
I shall lead a fine life of it out of this self-same life of mine; or, in other words, shall
lead a couple of fine lives together.

As for the proposal of twelve volumes a year, or a volume a month, it no way alters my prospect--write
as I will, and rush as I may into the middle of things, as Horace advises--I shall never overtake
myself whipp'd and driven to the last pinch; at the worst I shall have one day the start of
my pen--and one day is enough for two volumes--and two volumes will be enough for one year.--

Heaven prosper the manufacturers of paper under this propitious reign, which is now opened
to us--as I trust its providence will prosper every thing else in it that is taken in hand.

As for the propagation of Geese--I give myself no concern--Nature is all-bountiful--I shall
never want tools to work with.

--So then, friend! you have got my father and my uncle Toby off the stairs, and seen them to
bed?--And how did you manage it?--You dropp'd a curtain at the stair-foot--I thought you had
no other way for it--Here's a crown for your trouble.

Chapter 2.XLIX.

--Then reach me my breeches off the chair, said my father to Susannah.--There is not a moment's
time to dress you, Sir, cried Susannah--the child is as black in the face as my--As your what?
said my father, for like all orators, he was a dear searcher into comparisons.--Bless, me,
Sir, said Susannah, the child's in a fit.--And where's Mr. Yorick?--Never where he should be,
said Susannah, but his curate's in the dressing-room, with the child upon his arm, waiting
for the name--and my mistress bid me run as fast as I could to know, as captain Shandy is the
godfather, whether it should not be called after him.

Were one sure, said my father to himself, scratching his eye-brow, that the child was expiring,
one might as well compliment my brother Toby as not--and it would be a pity, in such a case,
to throw away so great a name as Trismegistus upon him--but he may recover.

No, no,--said my father to Susannah, I'll get up--There is no time, cried Susannah, the child's
as black as my shoe. Trismegistus, said my father--But stay--thou art a leaky vessel, Susannah,
added my father; canst thou carry Trismegistus in thy head, the length of the gallery without
scattering?--Can I? cried Susannah, shutting the door in a huff.--If she can, I'll be shot,
said my father, bouncing out of bed in the dark, and groping for his breeches.

Susannah ran with all speed along the gallery.

My father made all possible speed to find his breeches.

Susannah got the start, and kept it--'Tis Tris--something, cried Susannah--There is no christian-name
in the world, said the curate, beginning with Tris--but Tristram. Then 'tis Tristram-gistus,
quoth Susannah.

--There is no gistus to it, noodle!--'tis my own name, replied the curate, dipping his hand,
as he spoke, into the bason--Tristram! said he, &c. &c. &c. &c.--so Tristram was I called,
and Tristram shall I be to the day of my death.

My father followed Susannah, with his night-gown across his arm, with nothing more than his
breeches on, fastened through haste with but a single button, and that button through haste
thrust only half into the button-hole.

--She has not forgot the name, cried my father, half opening the door?--No, no, said the curate,
with a tone of intelligence.--And the child is better, cried Susannah.--And how does your mistress?
As well, said Susannah, as can be expected.--Pish! said my father, the button of his breeches
slipping out of the button-hole--So that whether the interjection was levelled at Susannah,
or the button-hole--whether Pish was an interjection of contempt or an interjection of modesty,
is a doubt, and must be a doubt till I shall have time to write the three following favourite
chapters, that is, my chapter of chamber-maids, my chapter of pishes, and my chapter of button-holes.

All the light I am able to give the reader at present is this, that the moment my father cried
Pish! he whisk'd himself about--and with his breeches held up by one hand, and his night-gown
thrown across the arm of the other, he turned along the gallery to bed, something slower than
he came.

Chapter 2.L.

I wish I could write a chapter upon sleep.

A fitter occasion could never have presented itself, than what this moment offers, when all
the curtains of the family are drawn--the candles put out--and no creature's eyes are open
but a single one, for the other has been shut these twenty years, of my mother's nurse.

It is a fine subject.

And yet, as fine as it is, I would undertake to write a dozen chapters upon button-holes, both
quicker and with more fame, than a single chapter upon this.

Button-holes! there is something lively in the very idea of 'em--and trust me, when I get amongst
'em--You gentry with great beards--look as grave as you will--I'll make merry work with my
button-holes--I shall have 'em all to myself--'tis a maiden subject--I shall run foul of no
man's wisdom or fine sayings in it.

But for sleep--I know I shall make nothing of it before I begin--I am no dab at your fine sayings
in the first place--and in the next, I cannot for my soul set a grave face upon a bad matter,
and tell the world--'tis the refuge of the unfortunate--the enfranchisement of the prisoner--the
downy lap of the hopeless, the weary, and the broken-hearted; nor could I set out with a lye
in my mouth, by affirming, that of all the soft and delicious functions of our nature, by which
the great Author of it, in his bounty, has been pleased to recompence the sufferings wherewith
his justice and his good pleasure has wearied us--that this is the chiefest (I know pleasures
worth ten of it); or what a happiness it is to man, when the anxieties and passions of the
day are over, and he lies down upon his back, that his soul shall be so seated within him,
that whichever way she turns her eyes, the heavens shall look calm and sweet above her--no
desire--or fear--or doubt that troubles the air, nor any difficulty past, present, or to come,
that the imagination may not pass over without offence, in that sweet secession.

'God's blessing,' said Sancho Panca, 'be upon the man who first invented this self-same thing
called sleep--it covers a man all over like a cloak.' Now there is more to me in this, and
it speaks warmer to my heart and affections, than all the dissertations squeez'd out of the
heads of the learned together upon the subject.

--Not that I altogether disapprove of what Montaigne advances upon it--'tis admirable in its
way--(I quote by memory.)

The world enjoys other pleasures, says he, as they do that of sleep, without tasting or feeling
it as it slips and passes by.--We should study and ruminate upon it, in order to render proper
thanks to him who grants it to us.--For this end I cause myself to be disturbed in my sleep,
that I may the better and more sensibly relish it.--And yet I see few, says he again, who live
with less sleep, when need requires; my body is capable of a firm, but not of a violent and
sudden agitation--I evade of late all violent exercises--I am never weary with walking--but
from my youth, I never looked to ride upon pavements. I love to lie hard and alone, and even
without my wife--This last word may stagger the faith of the world--but remember, 'La Vraisemblance'
(as Bayle says in the affair of Liceti) 'n'est pas toujours du Cote de la Verite.' And so much
for sleep.

Chapter 2.LI.

If my wife will but venture him--brother Toby, Trismegistus shall be dress'd and brought down
to us, whilst you and I are getting our breakfasts together.--

--Go, tell Susannah, Obadiah, to step here.

She is run up stairs, answered Obadiah, this very instant, sobbing and crying, and wringing
her hands as if her heart would break.

We shall have a rare month of it, said my father, turning his head from Obadiah, and looking
wistfully in my uncle Toby's face for some time--we shall have a devilish month of it, brother
Toby, said my father, setting his arms a'kimbo, and shaking his head; fire, water, women, wind--brother
Toby!--'Tis some misfortune, quoth my uncle Toby.--That it is, cried my father--to have so
many jarring elements breaking loose, and riding triumph in every corner of a gentleman's house--Little
boots it to the peace of a family, brother Toby, that you and I possess ourselves, and sit
here silent and unmoved--whilst such a storm is whistling over our heads.--

And what's the matter, Susannah? They have called the child Tristram--and my mistress is just
got out of an hysterick fit about it--No!--'tis not my fault, said Susannah--I told him it
was Tristram-gistus.

--Make tea for yourself, brother Toby, said my father, taking down his hat--but how different
from the sallies and agitations of voice and members which a common reader would imagine!

--For he spake in the sweetest modulation--and took down his hat with the genteelest movement
of limbs, that ever affliction harmonized and attuned together.

--Go to the bowling-green for corporal Trim, said my uncle Toby, speaking to Obadiah, as soon
as my father left the room.

Chapter 2.LII.

When the misfortune of my Nose fell so heavily upon my father's head;--the reader remembers
that he walked instantly up stairs, and cast himself down upon his bed; and from hence, unless
he has a great insight into human nature, he will be apt to expect a rotation of the same ascending
and descending movements from him, upon this misfortune of my Name;--no.

The different weight, dear Sir--nay even the different package of two vexations of the same
weight--makes a very wide difference in our manner of bearing and getting through with them.--It
is not half an hour ago, when (in the great hurry and precipitation of a poor devil's writing
for daily bread) I threw a fair sheet, which I had just finished, and carefully wrote out,
slap into the fire, instead of the foul one.

Instantly I snatch'd off my wig, and threw it perpendicularly, with all imaginable violence,
up to the top of the room--indeed I caught it as it fell--but there was an end of the matter;
nor do I think any think else in Nature would have given such immediate ease: She, dear Goddess,
by an instantaneous impulse, in all provoking cases, determines us to a sally of this or that
member--or else she thrusts us into this or that place, or posture of body, we know not why--But
mark, madam, we live amongst riddles and mysteries--the most obvious things, which come in
our way, have dark sides, which the quickest sight cannot penetrate into; and even the clearest
and most exalted understandings amongst us find ourselves puzzled and at a loss in almost every
cranny of nature's works: so that this, like a thousand other things, falls out for us in a
way, which tho' we cannot reason upon it--yet we find the good of it, may it please your reverences
and your worships--and that's enough for us.

Now, my father could not lie down with this affliction for his life--nor could he carry it
up stairs like the other--he walked composedly out with it to the fish-pond.

Had my father leaned his head upon his hand, and reasoned an hour which way to have gone--reason,
with all her force, could not have directed him to any think like it: there is something, Sir,
in fish-ponds--but what it is, I leave to system-builders and fish-pond-diggers betwixt 'em
to find out--but there is something, under the first disorderly transport of the humours, so
unaccountably becalming in an orderly and a sober walk towards one of them, that I have often
wondered that neither Pythagoras, nor Plato, nor Solon, nor Lycurgus, nor Mahomet, nor any
one of your noted lawgivers, ever gave order about them.

Chapter 2.LIII.

Your honour, said Trim, shutting the parlour-door before he began to speak, has heard, I imagine,
of this unlucky accident--O yes, Trim, said my uncle Toby, and it gives me great concern.--I
am heartily concerned too, but I hope your honour, replied Trim, will do me the justice to
believe, that it was not in the least owing to me.--To thee--Trim?--cried my uncle Toby, looking
kindly in his face--'twas Susannah's and the curate's folly betwixt them.--What business could
they have together, an' please your honour, in the garden?--In the gallery thou meanest, replied
my uncle Toby.

Trim found he was upon a wrong scent, and stopped short with a low bow--Two misfortunes, quoth
the corporal to himself, are twice as many at least as are needful to be talked over at one
time;--the mischief the cow has done in breaking into the fortifications, may be told his honour
hereafter.--Trim's casuistry and address, under the cover of his low bow, prevented all suspicion
in my uncle Toby, so he went on with what he had to say to Trim as follows:

--For my own part, Trim, though I can see little or no difference betwixt my nephew's being
called Tristram or Trismegistus--yet as the thing sits so near my brother's heart, Trim--I
would freely have given a hundred pounds rather than it should have happened.--A hundred pounds,
an' please your honour! replied Trim,--I would not give a cherry-stone to boot.--Nor would
I, Trim, upon my own account, quoth my uncle Toby--but my brother, whom there is no arguing
with in this case--maintains that a great deal more depends, Trim, upon christian-names, than
what ignorant people imagine--for he says there never was a great or heroic action performed
since the world began by one called Tristram--nay, he will have it, Trim, that a man can neither
be learned, or wise, or brave.--'Tis all fancy, an' please your honour--I fought just as well,
replied the corporal, when the regiment called me Trim, as when they called me James Butler.--And
for my own part, said my uncle Toby, though I should blush to boast of myself, Trim--yet had
my name been Alexander, I could have done no more at Namur than my duty.--Bless your honour!
cried Trim, advancing three steps as he spoke, does a man think of his christian-name when
he goes upon the attack?--Or when he stands in the trench, Trim? cried my uncle Toby, looking
firm.--Or when he enters a breach? said Trim, pushing in between two chairs.--Or forces the
lines? cried my uncle, rising up, and pushing his crutch like a pike.--Or facing a platoon?
cried Trim, presenting his stick like a firelock.--Or when he marches up the glacis? cried
my uncle Toby, looking warm and setting his foot upon his stool.--

Chapter 2.LIV.

My father was returned from his walk to the fish-pond--and opened the parlour-door in the very
height of the attack, just as my uncle Toby was marching up the glacis--Trim recovered his
arms--never was my uncle Toby caught in riding at such a desperate rate in his life! Alas!
my uncle Toby! had not a weightier matter called forth all the ready eloquence of my father--how
hadst thou then and thy poor Hobby-Horse too been insulted!

My father hung up his hat with the same air he took it down; and after giving a slight look
at the disorder of the room, he took hold of one of the chairs which had formed the corporal's
breach, and placing it over-against my uncle Toby, he sat down in it, and as soon as the tea-things
were taken away, and the door shut, he broke out in a lamentation as follows:

My Father's Lamentation.

It is in vain longer, said my father, addressing himself as much to Ernulphus's curse, which
was laid upon the corner of the chimney-piece--as to my uncle Toby who sat under it--it is
in vain longer, said my father, in the most querulous monotony imaginable, to struggle as I
have done against this most uncomfortable of human persuasions--I see it plainly, that either
for my own sins, brother Toby, or the sins and follies of the Shandy family, Heaven has thought
fit to draw forth the heaviest of its artillery against me; and that the prosperity of my child
is the point upon which the whole force of it is directed to play.--Such a thing would batter
the whole universe about our ears, brother Shandy, said my uncle Toby--if it was so-Unhappy
Tristram! child of wrath! child of decrepitude! interruption! mistake! and discontent! What
one misfortune or disaster in the book of embryotic evils, that could unmechanize thy frame,
or entangle thy filaments! which has not fallen upon thy head, or ever thou camest into the
world--what evils in thy passage into it!--what evils since!--produced into being, in the decline
of thy father's days--when the powers of his imagination and of his body were waxing feeble--when
radical heat and radical moisture, the elements which should have temper'd thine, were drying
up; and nothing left to found thy stamina in, but negations--'tis pitiful--brother Toby, at
the best, and called out for all the little helps that care and attention on both sides could
give it. But how were we defeated! You know the event, brother Toby--'tis too melancholy a
one to be repeated now--when the few animal spirits I was worth in the world, and with which
memory, fancy, and quick parts should have been convey'd--were all dispersed, confused, confounded,
scattered, and sent to the devil.--

Here then was the time to have put a stop to this persecution against him;--and tried an experiment
at least--whether calmness and serenity of mind in your sister, with a due attention, brother
Toby, to her evacuations and repletions--and the rest of her non-naturals, might not, in a
course of nine months gestation, have set all things to rights.--My child was bereft of these!--What
a teazing life did she lead herself, and consequently her foetus too, with that nonsensical
anxiety of hers about lying-in in town? I thought my sister submitted with the greatest patience,
replied my uncle Toby--I never heard her utter one fretful word about it.--She fumed inwardly,
cried my father; and that, let me tell you, brother, was ten times worse for the child--and
then! what battles did she fight with me, and what perpetual storms about the midwife.--There
she gave vent, said my uncle Toby.--Vent! cried my father, looking up.

But what was all this, my dear Toby, to the injuries done us by my child's coming head foremost
into the world, when all I wished, in this general wreck of his frame, was to have saved this
little casket unbroke, unrifled.--

With all my precautions, how was my system turned topside-turvy in the womb with my child!
his head exposed to the hand of violence, and a pressure of 470 pounds avoirdupois weight acting
so perpendicularly upon its apex--that at this hour 'tis ninety per Cent. insurance, that the
fine net-work of the intellectual web be not rent and torn to a thousand tatters.

--Still we could have done.--Fool, coxcomb, puppy--give him but a Nose--Cripple, Dwarf, Driveller,
Goosecap--(shape him as you will) the door of fortune stands open--O Licetus! Licetus! had
I been blest with a foetus five inches long and a half, like thee--Fate might have done her worst.

Still, brother Toby, there was one cast of the dye left for our child after all--O Tristram!
Tristram! Tristram!

We will send for Mr. Yorick, said my uncle Toby.

--You may send for whom you will, replied my father.

Chapter 2.LV.

What a rate have I gone on at, curvetting and striking it away, two up and two down for three
volumes (According to the preceding Editions.) together, without looking once behind, or even
on one side of me, to see whom I trod upon!--I'll tread upon no one--quoth I to myself when
I mounted--I'll take a good rattling gallop; but I'll not hurt the poorest jack-ass upon the
road.--So off I set--up one lane--down another, through this turnpike--over that, as if the
arch-jockey of jockeys had got behind me.

Now ride at this rate with what good intention and resolution you may--'tis a million to one
you'll do some one a mischief, if not yourself--He's flung--he's off--he's lost his hat--he's
down--he'll break his neck--see!--if he has not galloped full among the scaffolding of the
undertaking criticks!--he'll knock his brains out against some of their posts--he's bounced
out!--look--he's now riding like a mad-cap full tilt through a whole crowd of painters, fiddlers,
poets, biographers, physicians, lawyers, logicians, players, school-men, churchmen, statesmen,
soldiers, casuists, connoisseurs, prelates, popes, and engineers.--Don't fear, said I--I'll
not hurt the poorest jack-ass upon the king's highway.--But your horse throws dirt; see you've
splash'd a bishop--I hope in God, 'twas only Ernulphus, said I.--But you have squirted full
in the faces of Mess. Le Moyne, De Romigny, and De Marcilly, doctors of the Sorbonne.--That
was last year, replied I.--But you have trod this moment upon a king.--Kings have bad times
on't, said I, to be trod upon by such people as me.

You have done it, replied my accuser.

I deny it, quoth I, and so have got off, and here am I standing with my bridle in one hand,
and with my cap in the other, to tell my story.--And what in it? You shall hear in the next
chapter.

Chapter 2.LVI.

As Francis the first of France was one winterly night warming himself over the embers of a
wood fire, and talking with his first minister of sundry things for the good of the state (Vide
Menagiana, Vol. I.)--It would not be amiss, said the king, stirring up the embers with his
cane, if this good understanding betwixt ourselves and Switzerland was a little strengthened.--There
is no end, Sire, replied the minister, in giving money to these people--they would swallow
up the treasury of France.--Poo! poo! answered the king--there are more ways, Mons. le Premier,
of bribing states, besides that of giving money--I'll pay Switzerland the honour of standing
godfather for my next child.--Your majesty, said the minister, in so doing, would have all
the grammarians in Europe upon your back;--Switzerland, as a republic, being a female, can
in no construction be godfather.--She may be godmother, replied Francis hastily--so announce
my intentions by a courier to-morrow morning.

I am astonished, said Francis the First, (that day fortnight) speaking to his minister as he
entered the closet, that we have had no answer from Switzerland.--Sire, I wait upon you this
moment, said Mons. le Premier, to lay before you my dispatches upon that business.--They take
it kindly, said the king.--They do, Sire, replied the minister, and have the highest sense
of the honour your majesty has done them--but the republick, as godmother, claims her right,
in this case, of naming the child.

In all reason, quoth the king--she will christen him Francis, or Henry, or Lewis, or some name
that she knows will be agreeable to us. Your majesty is deceived, replied the minister--I have
this hour received a dispatch from our resident, with the determination of the republic on
that point also.--And what name has the republick fixed upon for the Dauphin?--Shadrach, Mesech,
Abed-nego, replied the minister.--By Saint Peter's girdle, I will have nothing to do with the
Swiss, cried Francis the First, pulling up his breeches and walking hastily across the floor.

Your majesty, replied the minister calmly, cannot bring yourself off.

We'll pay them in money--said the king.

Sire, there are not sixty thousand crowns in the treasury, answered the minister.--I'll pawn
the best jewel in my crown, quoth Francis the First.

Your honour stands pawn'd already in this matter, answered Monsieur le Premier.

Then, Mons. le Premier, said the king, by...we'll go to war with 'em.

Chapter 2.LVII.

Albeit, gentle reader, I have lusted earnestly, and endeavoured carefully (according to the
measure of such a slender skill as God has vouchsafed me, and as convenient leisure from other
occasions of needful profit and healthful pastime have permitted) that these little books which
I here put into thy hands, might stand instead of many bigger books--yet have I carried myself
towards thee in such fanciful guise of careless disport, that right sore am I ashamed now to
intreat thy lenity seriously--in beseeching thee to believe it of me, that in the story of
my father and his christian-names--I have no thoughts of treading upon Francis the First--nor
in the affair of the nose--upon Francis the Ninth--nor in the character of my uncle Toby--of
characterizing the militiating spirits of my country--the wound upon his groin, is a wound
to every comparison of that kind--nor by Trim--that I meant the duke of Ormond--or that my
book is wrote against predestination, or free-will, or taxes--If 'tis wrote against any thing,--'tis
wrote, an' please your worships, against the spleen! in order, by a more frequent and a more
convulsive elevation and depression of the diaphragm, and the succussations of the intercostal
and abdominal muscles in laughter, to drive the gall and other bitter juices from the gall-bladder,
liver, and sweet-bread of his majesty's subjects, with all the inimicitious passions which
belong to them, down into their duodenums.

Chapter 2.LVIII.

--But can the thing be undone, Yorick? said my father--for in my opinion, continued he, it
cannot. I am a vile canonist, replied Yorick--but of all evils, holding suspence to be the
most tormenting, we shall at least know the worst of this matter. I hate these great dinners--said
my father--The size of the dinner is not the point, answered Yorick--we want, Mr. Shandy, to
dive into the bottom of this doubt, whether the name can be changed or not--and as the beards
of so many commissaries, officials, advocates, proctors, registers, and of the most eminent
of our school-divines, and others, are all to meet in the middle of one table, and Didius has
so pressingly invited you--who in your distress would miss such an occasion? All that is requisite,
continued Yorick, is to apprize Didius, and let him manage a conversation after dinner so as
to introduce the subject.--Then my brother Toby, cried my father, clapping his two hands together,
shall go with us.

--Let my old tye-wig, quoth my uncle Toby, and my laced regimentals, be hung to the fire all
night, Trim.

(page numbering skips ten pages)

Chapter 2.LX.

--No doubt, Sir,--there is a whole chapter wanting here--and a chasm of ten pages made in the
book by it--but the book-binder is neither a fool, or a knave, or a puppy--nor is the book
a jot more imperfect (at least upon that score)--but, on the contrary, the book is more perfect
and complete by wanting the chapter, than having it, as I shall demonstrate to your reverences
in this manner.--I question first, by-the-bye, whether the same experiment might not be made
as successfully upon sundry other chapters--but there is no end, an' please your reverences,
in trying experiments upon chapters--we have had enough of it--So there's an end of that matter.

But before I begin my demonstration, let me only tell you, that the chapter which I have torn
out, and which otherwise you would all have been reading just now, instead of this--was the
description of my father's, my uncle Toby's, Trim's, and Obadiah's setting out and journeying
to the visitation at....

We'll go in the coach, said my father--Prithee, have the arms been altered, Obadiah?--It would
have made my story much better to have begun with telling you, that at the time my mother's
arms were added to the Shandy's, when the coach was re-painted upon my father's marriage, it
had so fallen out that the coach-painter, whether by performing all his works with the left
hand, like Turpilius the Roman, or Hans Holbein of Basil--or whether 'twas more from the blunder
of his head than hand--or whether, lastly, it was from the sinister turn which every thing
relating to our family was apt to take--it so fell out, however, to our reproach, that instead
of the bend-dexter, which since Harry the Eighth's reign was honestly our due--a bend-sinister,
by some of these fatalities, had been drawn quite across the field of the Shandy arms. 'Tis
scarce credible that the mind of so wise a man as my father was, could be so much incommoded
with so small a matter. The word coach--let it be whose it would--or coach-man, or coach-horse,
or coach-hire, could never be named in the family, but he constantly complained of carrying
this vile mark of illegitimacy upon the door of his own; he never once was able to step into
the coach, or out of it, without turning round to take a view of the arms, and making a vow
at the same time, that it was the last time he would ever set his foot in it again, till the
bend-sinister was taken out--but like the affair of the hinge, it was one of the many things
which the Destinies had set down in their books ever to be grumbled at (and in wiser families
than ours)--but never to be mended.

--Has the bend-sinister been brush'd out, I say? said my father.--There has been nothing brush'd
out, Sir, answered Obadiah, but the lining. We'll go o'horseback, said my father, turning to
Yorick--Of all things in the world, except politicks, the clergy know the least of heraldry,
said Yorick.--No matter for that, cried my father--I should be sorry to appear with a blot
in my escutcheon before them.--Never mind the bend-sinister, said my uncle Toby, putting on
his tye-wig.--No, indeed, said my father--you may go with my aunt Dinah to a visitation with
a bend-sinister, if you think fit--My poor uncle Toby blush'd. My father was vexed at himself.--No--my
dear brother Toby, said my father, changing his tone--but the damp of the coach-lining about
my loins, may give me the sciatica again, as it did December, January, and February last winter--so
if you please you shall ride my wife's pad--and as you are to preach, Yorick, you had better
make the best of your way before--and leave me to take care of my brother Toby, and to follow
at our own rates.

Now the chapter I was obliged to tear out, was the description of this cavalcade, in which
Corporal Trim and Obadiah, upon two coach-horses a-breast, led the way as slow as a patrole--whilst
my uncle Toby, in his laced regimentals and tye-wig, kept his rank with my father, in deep
roads and dissertations alternately upon the advantage of learning and arms, as each could
get the start.

--But the painting of this journey, upon reviewing it, appears to be so much above the stile
and manner of any thing else I have been able to paint in this book, that it could not have
remained in it, without depreciating every other scene; and destroying at the same time that
necessary equipoise and balance, (whether of good or bad) betwixt chapter and chapter, from
whence the just proportions and harmony of the whole work results. For my own part, I am but
just set up in the business, so know little about it--but, in my opinion, to write a book is
for all the world like humming a song--be but in tune with yourself, madam, 'tis no matter
how high or how low you take it.

--This is the reason, may it please your reverences, that some of the lowest and flattest compositions
pass off very well--(as Yorick told my uncle Toby one night) by siege.--My uncle Toby looked
brisk at the sound of the word siege, but could make neither head or tail of it.

I'm to preach at court next Sunday, said Homenas--run over my notes--so I humm'd over doctor
Homenas's notes--the modulation's very well--'twill do, Homenas, if it holds on at this rate--so
on I humm'd--and a tolerable tune I thought it was; and to this hour, may it please your reverences,
had never found out how low, how flat, how spiritless and jejune it was, but that all of a
sudden, up started an air in the middle of it, so fine, so rich, so heavenly,--it carried my
soul up with it into the other world; now had I (as Montaigne complained in a parallel accident)--had
I found the declivity easy, or the ascent accessible--certes I had been outwitted.--Your notes,
Homenas, I should have said, are good notes;--but it was so perpendicular a precipice--so wholly
cut off from the rest of the work, that by the first note I humm'd I found myself flying into
the other world, and from thence discovered the vale from whence I came, so deep, so low, and
dismal, that I shall never have the heart to descend into it again.

A dwarf who brings a standard along with him to measure his own size--take my word, is a dwarf
in more articles than one.--And so much for tearing out of chapters.

Chapter 2.LXI.

--See if he is not cutting it into slips, and giving them about him to light their pipes!--'Tis
abominable, answered Didius; it should not go unnoticed, said doctor Kysarcius--he was of the
Kysarcii of the Low Countries.

Methinks, said Didius, half rising from his chair, in order to remove a bottle and a tall decanter,
which stood in a direct line betwixt him and Yorick--you might have spared this sarcastic stroke,
and have hit upon a more proper place, Mr. Yorick--or at least upon a more proper occasion
to have shewn your contempt of what we have been about: If the sermon is of no better worth
than to light pipes with--'twas certainly, Sir, not good enough to be preached before so learned
a body; and if 'twas good enough to be preached before so learned a body--'twas certainly Sir,
too good to light their pipes with afterwards.

--I have got him fast hung up, quoth Didius to himself, upon one of the two horns of my dilemma--let
him get off as he can.

I have undergone such unspeakable torments, in bringing forth this sermon, quoth Yorick, upon
this occasion--that I declare, Didius, I would suffer martyrdom--and if it was possible my
horse with me, a thousand times over, before I would sit down and make such another: I was
delivered of it at the wrong end of me--it came from my head instead of my heart--and it is
for the pain it gave me, both in the writing and preaching of it, that I revenge myself of
it, in this manner--To preach, to shew the extent of our reading, or the subtleties of our
wit--to parade in the eyes of the vulgar with the beggarly accounts of a little learning, tinsel'd
over with a few words which glitter, but convey little light and less warmth--is a dishonest
use of the poor single half hour in a week which is put into our hands--'Tis not preaching
the gospel--but ourselves--For my own part, continued Yorick, I had rather direct five words
point-blank to the heart.--As Yorick pronounced the word point-blank, my uncle Toby rose up
to say something upon projectiles--when a single word and no more uttered from the opposite
side of the table drew every one's ears towards it--a word of all others in the dictionary
the last in that place to be expected--a word I am ashamed to write--yet must be written--must
be read--illegal-- uncanonical--guess ten thousand guesses, multiplied into themselves-- rack--torture
your invention for ever, you're where you was--In short, I'll tell it in the next chapter.

Chapter 2.LXII.

Zounds!--Z...ds! cried Phutatorius, partly to himself--and yet high enough to be heard--and
what seemed odd, 'twas uttered in a construction of look, and in a tone of voice, somewhat
between that of a man in amazement and one in bodily pain.

One or two who had very nice ears, and could distinguish the expression and mixture of the
two tones as plainly as a third or a fifth, or any other chord in musick--were the most puzzled
and perplexed with it--the concord was good in itself--but then 'twas quite out of the key,
and no way applicable to the subject started;--so that with all their knowledge, they could
not tell what in the world to make of it.

Others who knew nothing of musical expression, and merely lent their ears to the plain import
of the word, imagined that Phutatorius, who was somewhat of a cholerick spirit, was just going
to snatch the cudgels out of Didius's hands, in order to bemaul Yorick to some purpose--and
that the desperate monosyllable Z...ds was the exordium to an oration, which, as they judged
from the sample, presaged but a rough kind of handling of him; so that my uncle Toby's good-nature
felt a pang for what Yorick was about to undergo. But seeing Phutatorius stop short, without
any attempt or desire to go on--a third party began to suppose, that it was no more than an
involuntary respiration, casually forming itself into the shape of a twelve-penny oath--without
the sin or substance of one.

Others, and especially one or two who sat next him, looked upon it on the contrary as a real
and substantial oath, propensly formed against Yorick, to whom he was known to bear no good
liking--which said oath, as my father philosophized upon it, actually lay fretting and fuming
at that very time in the upper regions of Phutatorius's purtenance; and so was naturally, and
according to the due course of things, first squeezed out by the sudden influx of blood which
was driven into the right ventricle of Phutatorius's heart, by the stroke of surprize which
so strange a theory of preaching had excited.

How finely we argue upon mistaken facts!

There was not a soul busied in all these various reasonings upon the monosyllable which Phutatorius
uttered--who did not take this for granted, proceeding upon it as from an axiom, namely, that
Phutatorius's mind was intent upon the subject of debate which was arising between Didius and
Yorick; and indeed as he looked first towards the one and then towards the other, with the
air of a man listening to what was going forwards--who would not have thought the same? But
the truth was, that Phutatorius knew not one word or one syllable of what was passing--but
his whole thoughts and attention were taken up with a transaction which was going forwards
at that very instant within the precincts of his own Galligaskins, and in a part of them, where
of all others he stood most interested to watch accidents: So that notwithstanding he looked
with all the attention in the world, and had gradually skrewed up every nerve and muscle in
his face, to the utmost pitch the instrument would bear, in order, as it was thought, to give
a sharp reply to Yorick, who sat over-against him--yet, I say, was Yorick never once in any
one domicile of Phutatorius's brain--but the true cause of his exclamation lay at least a yard
below.

This I will endeavour to explain to you with all imaginable decency.

You must be informed then, that Gastripheres, who had taken a turn into the kitchen a little
before dinner, to see how things went on--observing a wicker-basket of fine chesnuts standing
upon the dresser, had ordered that a hundred or two of them might be roasted and sent in, as
soon as dinner was over--Gastripheres inforcing his orders about them, that Didius, but Phutatorius
especially, were particularly fond of 'em.

About two minutes before the time that my uncle Toby interrupted Yorick's harangue--Gastripheres's
chesnuts were brought in--and as Phutatorius's fondness for 'em was uppermost in the waiter's
head, he laid them directly before Phutatorius, wrapt up hot in a clean damask napkin.

Now whether it was physically impossible, with half a dozen hands all thrust into the napkin
at a time--but that some one chesnut, of more life and rotundity than the rest, must be put
in motion--it so fell out, however, that one was actually sent rolling off the table; and as
Phutatorius sat straddling under--it fell perpendicularly into that particular aperture of
Phutatorius's breeches, for which, to the shame and indelicacy of our language be it spoke,
there is no chaste word throughout all Johnson's dictionary--let it suffice to say--it was
that particular aperture which, in all good societies, the laws of decorum do strictly require,
like the temple of Janus (in peace at least) to be universally shut up.

The neglect of this punctilio in Phutatorius (which by-the-bye should be a warning to all mankind)
had opened a door to this accident.--

Accident I call it, in compliance to a received mode of speaking--but in no opposition to the
opinion either of Acrites or Mythogeras in this matter; I know they were both prepossessed
and fully persuaded of it--and are so to this hour, That there was nothing of accident in the
whole event--but that the chesnut's taking that particular course, and in a manner of its own
accord--and then falling with all its heat directly into that one particular place, and no
other--was a real judgment upon Phutatorius for that filthy and obscene treatise de Concubinis
retinendis, which Phutatorius had published about twenty years ago--and was that identical
week going to give the world a second edition of.

It is not my business to dip my pen in this controversy--much undoubtedly may be wrote on both
sides of the question--all that concerns me as an historian, is to represent the matter of
fact, and render it credible to the reader, that the hiatus in Phutatorius's breeches was sufficiently
wide to receive the chesnut;--and that the chesnut, somehow or other, did fall perpendicularly,
and piping hot into it, without Phutatorius's perceiving it, or any one else at that time.

The genial warmth which the chesnut imparted, was not undelectable for the first twenty or
five-and-twenty seconds--and did no more than gently solicit Phutatorius's attention towards
the part:--But the heat gradually increasing, and in a few seconds more getting beyond the
point of all sober pleasure, and then advancing with all speed into the regions of pain, the
soul of Phutatorius, together with all his ideas, his thoughts, his attention, his imagination,
judgment, resolution, deliberation, ratiocination, memory, fancy, with ten battalions of animal
spirits, all tumultuously crowded down, through different defiles and circuits, to the place
of danger, leaving all his upper regions, as you may imagine, as empty as my purse.

With the best intelligence which all these messengers could bring him back, Phutatorius was
not able to dive into the secret of what was going forwards below, nor could he make any kind
of conjecture, what the devil was the matter with it: However, as he knew not what the true
cause might turn out, he deemed it most prudent in the situation he was in at present, to bear
it, if possible, like a Stoick; which, with the help of some wry faces and compursions of the
mouth, he had certainly accomplished, had his imagination continued neuter;--but the sallies
of the imagination are ungovernable in things of this kind--a thought instantly darted into
his mind, that tho' the anguish had the sensation of glowing heat--it might, notwithstanding
that, be a bite as well as a burn; and if so, that possibly a Newt or an Asker, or some such
detested reptile, had crept up, and was fastening his teeth--the horrid idea of which, with
a fresh glow of pain arising that instant from the chesnut, seized Phutatorius with a sudden
panick, and in the first terrifying disorder of the passion, it threw him, as it has done the
best generals upon earth, quite off his guard:--the effect of which was this, that he leapt
incontinently up, uttering as he rose that interjection of surprise so much descanted upon,
with the aposiopestic break after it, marked thus, Z...ds--which, though not strictly canonical,
was still as little as any man could have said upon the occasion;--and which, by-the-bye, whether
canonical or not, Phutatorius could no more help than he could the cause of it.

Though this has taken up some time in the narrative, it took up little more time in the transaction,
than just to allow time for Phutatorius to draw forth the chesnut, and throw it down with violence
upon the floor--and for Yorick to rise from his chair, and pick the chesnut up.

It is curious to observe the triumph of slight incidents over the mind:--What incredible weight
they have in forming and governing our opinions, both of men and things--that trifles, light
as air, shall waft a belief into the soul, and plant it so immoveably within it--that Euclid's
demonstrations, could they be brought to batter it in breach, should not all have power to
overthrow it.

Yorick, I said, picked up the chesnut which Phutatorius's wrath had flung down--the action
was trifling--I am ashamed to account for it--he did it, for no reason, but that he thought
the chesnut not a jot worse for the adventure--and that he held a good chesnut worth stooping
for.--But this incident, trifling as it was, wrought differently in Phutatorius's head: He
considered this act of Yorick's in getting off his chair and picking up the chesnut, as a plain
acknowledgment in him, that the chesnut was originally his--and in course, that it must have
been the owner of the chesnut, and no one else, who could have played him such a prank with
it: What greatly confirmed him in this opinion, was this, that the table being parallelogramical
and very narrow, it afforded a fair opportunity for Yorick, who sat directly over against Phutatorius,
of slipping the chesnut in--and consequently that he did it. The look of something more than
suspicion, which Phutatorius cast full upon Yorick as these thoughts arose, too evidently spoke
his opinion--and as Phutatorius was naturally supposed to know more of the matter than any
person besides, his opinion at once became the general one;--and for a reason very different
from any which have been yet given--in a little time it was put out of all manner of dispute.

When great or unexpected events fall out upon the stage of this sublunary world--the mind of
man, which is an inquisitive kind of a substance, naturally takes a flight behind the scenes
to see what is the cause and first spring of them.--The search was not long in this instance.

It was well known that Yorick had never a good opinion of the treatise which Phutatorius had
wrote de Concubinis retinendis, as a thing which he feared had done hurt in the world--and
'twas easily found out, that there was a mystical meaning in Yorick's prank--and that his chucking
the chesnut hot into Phutatorius's...--..., was a sarcastical fling at his book--the doctrines
of which, they said, had enflamed many an honest man in the same place.

This conceit awaken'd Somnolentus--made Agelastes smile--and if you can recollect the precise
look and air of a man's face intent in finding out a riddle--it threw Gastripheres's into that
form--and in short was thought by many to be a master-stroke of arch-wit.

This, as the reader has seen from one end to the other, was as groundless as the dreams of
philosophy: Yorick, no doubt, as Shakespeare said of his ancestor--'was a man of jest,' but
it was temper'd with something which withheld him from that, and many other ungracious pranks,
of which he as undeservedly bore the blame;--but it was his misfortune all his life long to
bear the imputation of saying and doing a thousand things, of which (unless my esteem blinds
me) his nature was incapable. All I blame him for--or rather, all I blame and alternately like
him for, was that singularity of his temper, which would never suffer him to take pains to
set a story right with the world, however in his power. In every ill usage of that sort, he
acted precisely as in the affair of his lean horse--he could have explained it to his honour,
but his spirit was above it; and besides, he ever looked upon the inventor, the propagator
and believer of an illiberal report alike so injurious to him--he could not stoop to tell his
story to them--and so trusted to time and truth to do it for him.

This heroic cast produced him inconveniences in many respects--in the present it was followed
by the fixed resentment of Phutatorius, who, as Yorick had just made an end of his chesnut,
rose up from his chair a second time, to let him know it--which indeed he did with a smile;
saying only--that he would endeavour not to forget the obligation.

But you must mark and carefully separate and distinguish these two things in your mind.

--The smile was for the company.

--The threat was for Yorick.

Chapter 2.LXIII.

--Can you tell me, quoth Phutatorius, speaking to Gastripheres who sat next to him--for one
would not apply to a surgeon in so foolish an affair--can you tell me, Gastripheres, what is
best to take out the fire?--Ask Eugenius, said Gastripheres.--That greatly depends, said Eugenius,
pretending ignorance of the adventure, upon the nature of the part--If it is a tender part,
and a part which can conveniently be wrapt up--It is both the one and the other, replied Phutatorius,
laying his hand as he spoke, with an emphatical nod of his head, upon the part in question,
and lifting up his right leg at the same time to ease and ventilate it.--If that is the case,
said Eugenius, I would advise you, Phutatorius, not to tamper with it by any means; but if
you will send to the next printer, and trust your cure to such a simple thing as a soft sheet
of paper just come off the press--you need do nothing more than twist it round.--The damp paper,
quoth Yorick (who sat next to his friend Eugenius) though I know it has a refreshing coolness
in it--yet I presume is no more than the vehicle--and that the oil and lamp-black with which
the paper is so strongly impregnated, does the business.--Right, said Eugenius, and is, of
any outward application I would venture to recommend, the most anodyne and safe.

Was it my case, said Gastripheres, as the main thing is the oil and lamp-black, I should spread
them thick upon a rag, and clap it on directly.--That would make a very devil of it, replied
Yorick.--And besides, added Eugenius, it would not answer the intention, which is the extreme
neatness and elegance of the prescription, which the Faculty hold to be half in half;--for
consider, if the type is a very small one (which it should be) the sanative particles, which
come into contact in this form, have the advantage of being spread so infinitely thin, and
with such a mathematical equality (fresh paragraphs and large capitals excepted) as no art
or management of the spatula can come up to.--It falls out very luckily, replied Phutatorius,
that the second edition of my treatise de Concubinis retinendis is at this instant in the press.--You
may take any leaf of it, said Eugenius--no matter which.--Provided, quoth Yorick, there is
no bawdry in it.--

They are just now, replied Phutatorius, printing off the ninth chapter--which is the last chapter
but one in the book.--Pray what is the title of that chapter? said Yorick; making a respectful
bow to Phutatorius as he spoke.--I think, answered Phutatorius, 'tis that de re concubinaria.

For Heaven's sake keep out of that chapter, quoth Yorick.

--By all means--added Eugenius.

Chapter 2.LXIV.

--Now, quoth Didius, rising up, and laying his right hand with his fingers spread upon his
breast--had such a blunder about a christian-name happened before the Reformation--(It happened
the day before yesterday, quoth my uncle Toby to himself)--and when baptism was administer'd
in Latin--('Twas all in English, said my uncle)--many things might have coincided with it,
and upon the authority of sundry decreed cases, to have pronounced the baptism null, with a
power of giving the child a new name--Had a priest, for instance, which was no uncommon thing,
through ignorance of the Latin tongue, baptized a child of Tom-o'Stiles, in nomine patriae
& filia & spiritum sanctos--the baptism was held null.--I beg your pardon, replied Kysarcius--in
that case, as the mistake was only the terminations, the baptism was valid--and to have rendered
it null, the blunder of the priest should have fallen upon the first syllable of each noun--and
not, as in your case, upon the last.

My father delighted in subtleties of this kind, and listen'd with infinite attention.

Gastripheres, for example, continued Kysarcius, baptizes a child of John Stradling's in Gomine
gatris, &c. &c. instead of in Nomine patris, &c.--Is this a baptism? No--say the ablest canonists;
in as much as the radix of each word is hereby torn up, and the sense and meaning of them removed
and changed quite to another object; for Gomine does not signify a name, nor gatris a father.--What
do they signify? said my uncle Toby.--Nothing at all--quoth Yorick.--Ergo, such a baptism is
null, said Kysarcius.--

In course, answered Yorick, in a tone two parts jest and one part earnest.--But in the case
cited, continued Kysarcius, where patriae is put for patris, filia for filii, and so on--as
it is a fault only in the declension, and the roots of the words continue untouch'd, the inflections
of their branches either this way or that, does not in any sort hinder the baptism, inasmuch
as the same sense continues in the words as before.--But then, said Didius, the intention of
the priest's pronouncing them grammatically must have been proved to have gone along with it.--Right,
answered Kysarcius; and of this, brother Didius, we have an instance in a decree of the decretals
of Pope Leo the IIId.--But my brother's child, cried my uncle Toby, has nothing to do with
the Pope--'tis the plain child of a Protestant gentleman, christen'd Tristram against the wills
and wishes both of his father and mother, and all who are a-kin to it.--

If the wills and wishes, said Kysarcius, interrupting my uncle Toby, of those only who stand
related to Mr. Shandy's child, were to have weight in this matter, Mrs. Shandy, of all people,
has the least to do in it.--My uncle Toby lay'd down his pipe, and my father drew his chair
still closer to the table, to hear the conclusion of so strange an introduction.

--It has not only been a question, Captain Shandy, amongst the (Vide Swinburn on Testaments,
Part 7. para 8.) best lawyers and civilians in this land, continued Kysarcius, 'Whether the
mother be of kin to her child,'--but, after much dispassionate enquiry and jactitation of the
arguments on all sides--it has been adjudged for the negative--namely, 'That the mother is
not of kin to her child.' (Vide Brook Abridg. Tit. Administr. N. 47.) My father instantly clapp'd
his hand upon my uncle Toby's mouth, under colour of whispering in his ear;--the truth was,
he was alarmed for Lillabullero--and having a great desire to hear more of so curious an argument--he
begg'd my uncle Toby, for heaven's sake, not to disappoint him in it.--My uncle Toby gave a
nod--resumed his pipe, and contenting himself with whistling Lillabullero inwardly--Kysarcius,
Didius, and Triptolemus went on with the discourse as follows:

This determination, continued Kysarcius, how contrary soever it may seem to run to the stream
of vulgar ideas, yet had reason strongly on its side; and has been put out of all manner of
dispute from the famous case, known commonly by the name of the Duke of Suffolk's case.--It
is cited in Brook, said Triptolemus--And taken notice of by Lord Coke, added Didius.--And you
may find it in Swinburn on Testaments, said Kysarcius.

The case, Mr. Shandy, was this:

In the reign of Edward the Sixth, Charles duke of Suffolk having issue a son by one venter,
and a daughter by another venter, made his last will, wherein he devised goods to his son,
and died; after whose death the son died also--but without will, without wife, and without
child--his mother and his sister by the father's side (for she was born of the former venter)
then living. The mother took the administration of her son's goods, according to the statute
of the 21st of Harry the Eighth, whereby it is enacted, That in case any person die intestate
the administration of his goods shall be committed to the next of kin.

The administration being thus (surreptitiously) granted to the mother, the sister by the father's
side commenced a suit before the Ecclesiastical Judge, alledging, 1st, That she herself was
next of kin; and 2dly, That the mother was not of kin at all to the party deceased; and therefore
prayed the court, that the administration granted to the mother might be revoked, and be committed
unto her, as next of kin to the deceased, by force of the said statute.

Hereupon, as it was a great cause, and much depending upon its issue--and many causes of great
property likely to be decided in times to come, by the precedent to be then made--the most
learned, as well in the laws of this realm, as in the civil law, were consulted together, whether
the mother was of kin to her son, or no.--Whereunto not only the temporal lawyers--but the
church lawyers--the juris-consulti--the jurisprudentes--the civilians--the advocates--the commissaries--the
judges of the consistory and prerogative courts of Canterbury and York, with the master of
the faculties, were all unanimously of opinion, That the mother was not of (Mater non numeratur
inter consanguineos, Bald. in ult. C. de Verb. signific.) kin to her child.--

And what said the duchess of Suffolk to it? said my uncle Toby.

The unexpectedness of my uncle Toby's question, confounded Kysarcius more than the ablest advocate--He
stopp'd a full minute, looking in my uncle Toby's face without replying--and in that single
minute Triptolemus put by him, and took the lead as follows.

'Tis a ground and principle in the law, said Triptolemus, that things do not ascend, but descend
in it; and I make no doubt 'tis for this cause, that however true it is, that the child may
be of the blood and seed of its parents--that the parents, nevertheless, are not of the blood
and seed of it; inasmuch as the parents are not begot by the child, but the child by the parents--For
so they write, Liberi sunt de sanguine patris & matris, sed pater & mater non sunt de sanguine
liberorum.

--But this, Triptolemus, cried Didius, proves too much--for from this authority cited it would
follow, not only what indeed is granted on all sides, that the mother is not of kin to her
child--but the father likewise.--It is held, said Triptolemus, the better opinion; because
the father, the mother, and the child, though they be three persons, yet are they but (una
caro (Vide Brook Abridg. tit. Administr. N.47.)) one flesh; and consequently no degree of kindred--or
any method of acquiring one in nature.--There you push the argument again too far, cried Didius--for
there is no prohibition in nature, though there is in the Levitical law--but that a man may
beget a child upon his grandmother--in which case, supposing the issue a daughter, she would
stand in relation both of--But who ever thought, cried Kysarcius, of laying with his grandmother?--The
young gentleman, replied Yorick, whom Selden speaks of--who not only thought of it, but justified
his intention to his father by the argument drawn from the law of retaliation.--'You laid,
Sir, with my mother,' said the lad--'why may not I lay with yours?'--'Tis the Argumentum commune,
added Yorick.--'Tis as good, replied Eugenius, taking down his hat, as they deserve.

The company broke up.

Chapter 2.LXV.

--And pray, said my uncle Toby, leaning upon Yorick, as he and my father were helping him leisurely
down the stairs--don't be terrified, madam, this stair-case conversation is not so long as
the last--And pray, Yorick, said my uncle Toby, which way is this said affair of Tristram at
length settled by these learned men? Very satisfactorily, replied Yorick; no mortal, Sir, has
any concern with it--for Mrs. Shandy the mother is nothing at all a-kin to him--and as the
mother's is the surest side--Mr. Shandy, in course is still less than nothing--In short, he
is not as much a-kin to him, Sir, as I am.--

--That may well be, said my father, shaking his head.

--Let the learned say what they will, there must certainly, quoth my uncle Toby, have been
some sort of consanguinity betwixt the duchess of Suffolk and her son.

The vulgar are of the same opinion, quoth Yorick, to this hour.

Chapter 2.LXVI.

Though my father was hugely tickled with the subtleties of these learned discourses--'twas
still but like the anointing of a broken bone--The moment he got home, the weight of his afflictions
returned upon him but so much the heavier, as is ever the case when the staff we lean on slips
from under us.--He became pensive--walked frequently forth to the fish-pond--let down one loop
of his hat--sigh'd often--forbore to snap--and, as the hasty sparks of temper, which occasion
snapping, so much assist perspiration and digestion, as Hippocrates tells us--he had certainly
fallen ill with the extinction of them, had not his thoughts been critically drawn off, and
his health rescued by a fresh train of disquietudes left him, with a legacy of a thousand pounds,
by my aunt Dinah.

My father had scarce read the letter, when taking the thing by the right end, he instantly
began to plague and puzzle his head how to lay it out mostly to the honour of his family.--A
hundred-and-fifty odd projects took possession of his brains by turns--he would do this, and
that and t'other--He would go to Rome--he would go to law--he would buy stock--he would buy
John Hobson's farm--he would new fore front his house, and add a new wing to make it even--There
was a fine water-mill on this side, and he would build a wind-mill on the other side of the
river in full view to answer it--But above all things in the world, he would inclose the great
Ox-moor, and send out my brother Bobby immediately upon his travels.

But as the sum was finite, and consequently could not do every thing--and in truth very few
of these to any purpose--of all the projects which offered themselves upon this occasion, the
two last seemed to make the deepest impression; and he would infallibly have determined upon
both at once, but for the small inconvenience hinted at above, which absolutely put him under
a necessity of deciding in favour either of the one or the other.

This was not altogether so easy to be done; for though 'tis certain my father had long before
set his heart upon this necessary part of my brother's education, and like a prudent man had
actually determined to carry it into execution, with the first money that returned from the
second creation of actions in the Missisippi-scheme, in which he was an adventurer--yet the
Ox-moor, which was a fine, large, whinny, undrained, unimproved common, belonging to the Shandy-estate,
had almost as old a claim upon him: he had long and affectionately set his heart upon turning
it likewise to some account.

But having never hitherto been pressed with such a conjuncture of things, as made it necessary
to settle either the priority or justice of their claims--like a wise man he had refrained
entering into any nice or critical examination about them: so that upon the dismission of every
other project at this crisis--the two old projects, the Ox-moor and my Brother, divided him
again; and so equal a match were they for each other, as to become the occasion of no small
contest in the old gentleman's mind--which of the two should be set o'going first.

--People may laugh as they will--but the case was this.

It had ever been the custom of the family, and by length of time was almost become a matter
of common right, that the eldest son of it should have free ingress, egress, and regress into
foreign parts before marriage--not only for the sake of bettering his own private parts, by
the benefit of exercise and change of so much air--but simply for the mere delectation of his
fancy, by the feather put into his cap, of having been abroad--tantum valet, my father would
say, quantum sonat.

Now as this was a reasonable, and in course a most christian indulgence--to deprive him of
it, without why or wherefore--and thereby make an example of him, as the first Shandy unwhirl'd
about Europe in a post-chaise, and only because he was a heavy lad--would be using him ten
times worse than a Turk.

On the other hand, the case of the Ox-moor was full as hard.

Exclusive of the original purchase-money, which was eight hundred pounds--it had cost the family
eight hundred pounds more in a law-suit about fifteen years before--besides the Lord knows
what trouble and vexation.

It had been moreover in possession of the Shandy-family ever since the middle of the last century;
and though it lay full in view before the house, bounded on one extremity by the water-mill,
and on the other by the projected wind-mill spoken of above--and for all these reasons seemed
to have the fairest title of any part of the estate to the care and protection of the family--yet
by an unaccountable fatality, common to men, as well as the ground they tread on--it had all
along most shamefully been overlook'd; and to speak the truth of it, had suffered so much by
it, that it would have made any man's heart have bled (Obadiah said) who understood the value
of the land, to have rode over it, and only seen the condition it was in.

However, as neither the purchasing this tract of ground--nor indeed the placing of it where
it lay, were either of them, properly speaking, of my father's doing--he had never thought
himself any way concerned in the affair--till the fifteen years before, when the breaking out
of that cursed law-suit mentioned above (and which had arose about its boundaries)--which being
altogether my father's own act and deed, it naturally awakened every other argument in its
favour, and upon summing them all up together, he saw, not merely in interest, but in honour,
he was bound to do something for it--and that now or never was the time.

I think there must certainly have been a mixture of ill-luck in it, that the reasons on both
sides should happen to be so equally balanced by each other; for though my father weigh'd them
in all humours and conditions--spent many an anxious hour in the most profound and abstracted
meditation upon what was best to be done--reading books of farming one day--books of travels
another--laying aside all passion whatever--viewing the arguments on both sides in all their
lights and circumstances--communing every day with my uncle Toby--arguing with Yorick, and
talking over the whole affair of the Ox-moor with Obadiah--yet nothing in all that time appeared
so strongly in behalf of the one, which was not either strictly applicable to the other, or
at least so far counterbalanced by some consideration of equal weight, as to keep the scales even.

For to be sure, with proper helps, in the hands of some people, tho' the Ox-moor would undoubtedly
have made a different appearance in the world from what it did, or ever could do in the condition
it lay--yet every tittle of this was true, with regard to my brother Bobby--let Obadiah say
what he would.--

In point of interest--the contest, I own, at first sight, did not appear so undecisive betwixt
them; for whenever my father took pen and ink in hand, and set about calculating the simple
expence of paring and burning, and fencing in the Ox-moor, &c. &c.--with the certain profit
it would bring him in return--the latter turned out so prodigiously in his way of working the
account, that you would have sworn the Ox-moor would have carried all before it. For it was
plain he should reap a hundred lasts of rape, at twenty pounds a last, the very first year--besides
an excellent crop of wheat the year following--and the year after that, to speak within bounds,
a hundred--but in all likelihood, a hundred and fifty--if not two hundred quarters of pease
and beans--besides potatoes without end.--But then, to think he was all this while breeding
up my brother, like a hog to eat them--knocked all on the head again, and generally left the
old gentleman in such a state of suspense--that, as he often declared to my uncle Toby--he
knew no more than his heels what to do.

No body, but he who has felt it, can conceive what a plaguing thing it is to have a man's mind
torn asunder by two projects of equal strength, both obstinately pulling in a contrary direction
at the same time: for to say nothing of the havock, which by a certain consequence is unavoidably
made by it all over the finer system of the nerves, which you know convey the animal spirits
and more subtle juices from the heart to the head, and so on--it is not to be told in what
a degree such a wayward kind of friction works upon the more gross and solid parts, wasting
the fat and impairing the strength of a man every time as it goes backwards and forwards.

My father had certainly sunk under this evil, as certainly as he had done under that of my
Christian Name--had he not been rescued out of it, as he was out of that, by a fresh evil--the
misfortune of my brother Bobby's death.

What is the life of man! Is it not to shift from side to side?--from sorrow to sorrow?--to
button up one cause of vexation--and unbutton another?

Chapter 2.LXVII.

From this moment I am to be considered as heir-apparent to the Shandy family--and it is from
this point properly, that the story of my Life and my Opinions sets out. With all my hurry
and precipitation, I have but been clearing the ground to raise the building--and such a building
do I foresee it will turn out, as never was planned, and as never was executed since Adam.
In less than five minutes I shall have thrown my pen into the fire, and the little drop of
thick ink which is left remaining at the bottom of my ink-horn, after it--I have but half a
score things to do in the time--I have a thing to name--a thing to lament--a thing to hope--a
thing to promise, and a thing to threaten--I have a thing to suppose--a thing to declare--a
thing to conceal--a thing to choose, and a thing to pray for--This chapter, therefore, I name
the chapter of Things--and my next chapter to it, that is, the first chapter of my next volume,
if I live, shall be my chapter upon Whiskers, in order to keep up some sort of connection in
my works.

The thing I lament is, that things have crowded in so thick upon me, that I have not been able
to get into that part of my work, towards which I have all the way looked forwards, with so
much earnest desire; and that is the Campaigns, but especially the amours of my uncle Toby,
the events of which are of so singular a nature, and so Cervantick a cast, that if I can so
manage it, as to convey but the same impressions to every other brain, which the occurrences
themselves excite in my own--I will answer for it the book shall make its way in the world,
much better than its master has done before it.--Oh Tristram! Tristram! can this but be once
brought about--the credit, which will attend thee as an author, shall counterbalance the many
evils will have befallen thee as a man--thou wilt feast upon the one--when thou hast lost all
sense and remembrance of the other--!

No wonder I itch so much as I do, to get at these amours--They are the choicest morsel of my
whole story! and when I do get at 'em--assure yourselves, good folks--(nor do I value whose
squeamish stomach takes offence at it) I shall not be at all nice in the choice of my words!--and
that's the thing I have to declare.--I shall never get all through in five minutes, that I
fear--and the thing I hope is, that your worships and reverences are not offended--if you are,
depend upon't I'll give you something, my good gentry, next year to be offended at--that's
my dear Jenny's way--but who my Jenny is--and which is the right and which the wrong end of
a woman, is the thing to be concealed--it shall be told you in the next chapter but one to
my chapter of Button-holes--and not one chapter before.

And now that you have just got to the end of these (According to the preceding Editions.) three
volumes--the thing I have to ask is, how you feel your heads? my own akes dismally!--as for
your healths, I know, they are much better.--True Shandeism, think what you will against it,
opens the heart and lungs, and like all those affections which partake of its nature, it forces
the blood and other vital fluids of the body to run freely through its channels, makes the
wheel of life run long and cheerfully round.

Was I left, like Sancho Panca, to choose my kingdom, it should not be maritime--or a kingdom
of blacks to make a penny of;--no, it should be a kingdom of hearty laughing subjects: And
as the bilious and more saturnine passions, by creating disorders in the blood and humours,
have as bad an influence, I see, upon the body politick as body natural--and as nothing but
a habit of virtue can fully govern those passions, and subject them to reason--I should add
to my prayer--that God would give my subjects grace to be as Wise as they were Merry; and then
should I be the happiest monarch, and they are the happiest people under heaven.

And so with this moral for the present, may it please your worships and your reverences, I
take my leave of you till this time twelve-month, when, (unless this vile cough kills me in
the mean time) I'll have another pluck at your beards, and lay open a story to the world you
little dream of.

     Si quis Clericus, aut Monachus, verba joculatoria, risum
     moventia, sciebat, anathema esto.  Second Council of
     Carthage.

To the Right Honorable John, Lord Viscount Spencer.

My Lord,

I Humbly beg leave to offer you these two Volumes (Volumes V. and VI. in the first Edition.);
they are the best my talents, with such bad health as I have, could produce:--had Providence
granted me a larger stock of either, they had been a much more proper present to your Lordship.

I beg your Lordship will forgive me, if, at the same time I dedicate this work to you, I join
Lady Spencer, in the liberty I take of inscribing the story of Le Fever to her name; for which
I have no other motive, which my heart has informed me of, but that the story is a humane one.

I am, My Lord, Your Lordship's most devoted and most humble Servant,

Laur. Sterne.

Chapter 3.I.

If it had not been for those two mettlesome tits, and that madcap of a postillion who drove
them from Stilton to Stamford, the thought had never entered my head. He flew like lightning--there
was a slope of three miles and a half--we scarce touched the ground--the motion was most rapid--most
impetuous--'twas communicated to my brain--my heart partook of it--'By the great God of day,'
said I, looking towards the sun, and thrusting my arm out of the fore-window of the chaise,
as I made my vow, 'I will lock up my study-door the moment I get home, and throw the key of
it ninety feet below the surface of the earth, into the draw-well at the back of my house.'

The London waggon confirmed me in my resolution; it hung tottering upon the hill, scarce progressive,
drag'd--drag'd up by eight heavy beasts--'by main strength!--quoth I, nodding--but your betters
draw the same way--and something of every body's!--O rare!'

Tell me, ye learned, shall we for ever be adding so much to the bulk--so little to the stock?

Shall we for ever make new books, as apothecaries make new mixtures, by pouring only out of
one vessel into another?

Are we for ever to be twisting, and untwisting the same rope? for ever in the same track--for
ever at the same pace?

Shall we be destined to the days of eternity, on holy-days, as well as working-days, to be
shewing the relicks of learning, as monks do the relicks of their saints--without working one--one
single miracle with them?

Who made Man, with powers which dart him from earth to heaven in a moment--that great, that
most excellent, and most noble creature of the world--the miracle of nature, as Zoroaster in
his book (Greek) called him--the Shekinah of the divine presence, as Chrysostom--the image
of God, as Moses--the ray of divinity, as Plato--the marvel of marvels, as Aristotle--to go
sneaking on at this pitiful--pimping--pettifogging rate?

I scorn to be as abusive as Horace upon the occasion--but if there is no catachresis in the
wish, and no sin in it, I wish from my soul, that every imitator in Great Britain, France,
and Ireland, had the farcy for his pains; and that there was a good farcical house, large enough
to hold--aye--and sublimate them, shag rag and bob-tail, male and female, all together: and
this leads me to the affair of Whiskers--but, by what chain of ideas--I leave as a legacy in
mort-main to Prudes and Tartufs, to enjoy and make the most of.

Upon Whiskers.

I'm sorry I made it--'twas as inconsiderate a promise as ever entered a man's head--A chapter
upon whiskers! alas! the world will not bear it--'tis a delicate world--but I knew not of what
mettle it was made--nor had I ever seen the under-written fragment; otherwise, as surely as
noses are noses, and whiskers are whiskers still (let the world say what it will to the contrary);
so surely would I have steered clear of this dangerous chapter.

The Fragment.

...--You are half asleep, my good lady, said the old gentleman, taking hold of the old lady's
hand, and giving it a gentle squeeze, as he pronounced the word Whiskers--shall we change the
subject? By no means, replied the old lady--I like your account of those matters; so throwing
a thin gauze handkerchief over her head, and leaning it back upon the chair with her face turned
towards him, and advancing her two feet as she reclined herself--I desire, continued she, you
will go on.

The old gentleman went on as follows:--Whiskers! cried the queen of Navarre, dropping her knotting
ball, as La Fosseuse uttered the word--Whiskers, madam, said La Fosseuse, pinning the ball
to the queen's apron, and making a courtesy as she repeated it.

La Fosseuse's voice was naturally soft and low, yet 'twas an articulate voice: and every letter
of the word Whiskers fell distinctly upon the queen of Navarre's ear--Whiskers! cried the queen,
laying a greater stress upon the word, and as if she had still distrusted her ears--Whiskers!
replied La Fosseuse, repeating the word a third time--There is not a cavalier, madam, of his
age in Navarre, continued the maid of honour, pressing the page's interest upon the queen,
that has so gallant a pair--Of what? cried Margaret, smiling--Of whiskers, said La Fosseuse,
with infinite modesty.

The word Whiskers still stood its ground, and continued to be made use of in most of the best
companies throughout the little kingdom of Navarre, notwithstanding the indiscreet use which
La Fosseuse had made of it: the truth was, La Fosseuse had pronounced the word, not only before
the queen, but upon sundry other occasions at court, with an accent which always implied something
of a mystery--And as the court of Margaret, as all the world knows, was at that time a mixture
of gallantry and devotion--and whiskers being as applicable to the one, as the other, the word
naturally stood its ground--it gained full as much as it lost; that is, the clergy were for
it--the laity were against it--and for the women,--they were divided.

The excellency of the figure and mien of the young Sieur De Croix, was at that time beginning
to draw the attention of the maids of honour towards the terrace before the palace gate, where
the guard was mounted. The lady De Baussiere fell deeply in love with him,--La Battarelle did
the same--it was the finest weather for it, that ever was remembered in Navarre--La Guyol,
La Maronette, La Sabatiere, fell in love with the Sieur De Croix also--La Rebours and La Fosseuse
knew better--De Croix had failed in an attempt to recommend himself to La Rebours; and La Rebours
and La Fosseuse were inseparable.

The queen of Navarre was sitting with her ladies in the painted bow-window, facing the gate
of the second court, as De Croix passed through it--He is handsome, said the Lady Baussiere--He
has a good mien, said La Battarelle--He is finely shaped, said La Guyol--I never saw an officer
of the horse-guards in my life, said La Maronette, with two such legs--Or who stood so well
upon them, said La Sabatiere--But he has no whiskers, cried La Fosseuse--Not a pile, said La
Rebours.

The queen went directly to her oratory, musing all the way, as she walked through the gallery,
upon the subject; turning it this way and that way in her fancy--Ave Maria!--what can La-Fosseuse
mean? said she, kneeling down upon the cushion.

La Guyol, La Battarelle, La Maronette, La Sabatiere, retired instantly to their chambers--Whiskers!
said all four of them to themselves, as they bolted their doors on the inside.

The Lady Carnavallette was counting her beads with both hands, unsuspected, under her farthingal--from
St. Antony down to St. Ursula inclusive, not a saint passed through her fingers without whiskers;
St. Francis, St. Dominick, St. Bennet, St. Basil, St. Bridget, had all whiskers.

The Lady Baussiere had got into a wilderness of conceits, with moralizing too intricately upon
La Fosseuse's text--She mounted her palfrey, her page followed her--the host passed by--the
Lady Baussiere rode on.

One denier, cried the order of mercy--one single denier, in behalf of a thousand patient captives,
whose eyes look towards heaven and you for their redemption.

--The Lady Baussiere rode on.

Pity the unhappy, said a devout, venerable, hoary-headed man, meekly holding up a box, begirt
with iron, in his withered hands--I beg for the unfortunate--good my Lady, 'tis for a prison--for
an hospital--'tis for an old man--a poor man undone by shipwreck, by suretyship, by fire--I
call God and all his angels to witness--'tis to clothe the naked--to feed the hungry--'tis
to comfort the sick and the broken-hearted.

The Lady Baussiere rode on.

A decayed kinsman bowed himself to the ground.

--The Lady Baussiere rode on.

He ran begging bare-headed on one side of her palfrey, conjuring her by the former bonds of
friendship, alliance, consanguinity, &c.--Cousin, aunt, sister, mother,--for virtue's sake,
for your own, for mine, for Christ's sake, remember me--pity me.

--The Lady Baussiere rode on.

Take hold of my whiskers, said the Lady Baussiere--The page took hold of her palfrey. She dismounted
at the end of the terrace.

There are some trains of certain ideas which leave prints of themselves about our eyes and
eye-brows; and there is a consciousness of it, somewhere about the heart, which serves but
to make these etchings the stronger--we see, spell, and put them together without a dictionary.

Ha, ha! he, hee! cried La Guyol and La Sabatiere, looking close at each other's prints--Ho,
ho! cried La Battarelle and Maronette, doing the same:--Whist! cried one--ft, ft,--said a second--hush,
quoth a third--poo, poo, replied a fourth--gramercy! cried the Lady Carnavallette;--'twas she
who bewhisker'd St. Bridget.

La Fosseuse drew her bodkin from the knot of her hair, and having traced the outline of a small
whisker, with the blunt end of it, upon one side of her upper lip, put in into La Rebours'
hand--La Rebours shook her head.

The Lady Baussiere coughed thrice into the inside of her muff--La Guyol smiled--Fy, said the
Lady Baussiere. The queen of Navarre touched her eye with the tip of her fore-finger--as much
as to say, I understand you all.

'Twas plain to the whole court the word was ruined: La Fosseuse had given it a wound, and it
was not the better for passing through all these defiles--It made a faint stand, however, for
a few months, by the expiration of which, the Sieur De Croix, finding it high time to leave
Navarre for want of whiskers--the word in course became indecent, and (after a few efforts)
absolutely unfit for use.

The best word, in the best language of the best world, must have suffered under such combinations.--The
curate of d'Estella wrote a book against them, setting forth the dangers of accessory ideas,
and warning the Navarois against them.

Does not all the world know, said the curate d'Estella at the conclusion of his work, that
Noses ran the same fate some centuries ago in most parts of Europe, which Whiskers have now
done in the kingdom of Navarre?--The evil indeed spread no farther then--but have not beds
and bolsters, and night-caps and chamber-pots stood upon the brink of destruction ever since?
Are not trouse, and placket-holes, and pump-handles--and spigots and faucets, in danger still
from the same association?--Chastity, by nature, the gentlest of all affections--give it but
its head--'tis like a ramping and a roaring lion.

The drift of the curate d'Estella's argument was not understood.--They ran the scent the wrong
way.--The world bridled his ass at the tail.--And when the extremes of Delicacy, and the beginnings
of Concupiscence, hold their next provincial chapter together, they may decree that bawdy also.

Chapter 3.II.

When my father received the letter which brought him the melancholy account of my brother Bobby's
death, he was busy calculating the expence of his riding post from Calais to Paris, and so
on to Lyons.

'Twas a most inauspicious journey; my father having had every foot of it to travel over again,
and his calculation to begin afresh, when he had almost got to the end of it, by Obadiah's
opening the door to acquaint him the family was out of yeast--and to ask whether he might not
take the great coach-horse early in the morning and ride in search of some.--With all my heart,
Obadiah, said my father (pursuing his journey)--take the coach-horse, and welcome.--But he
wants a shoe, poor creature! said Obadiah.--Poor creature! said my uncle Toby, vibrating the
note back again, like a string in unison. Then ride the Scotch horse, quoth my father hastily.--He
cannot bear a saddle upon his back, quoth Obadiah, for the whole world.--The devil's in that
horse; then take Patriot, cried my father, and shut the door.--Patriot is sold, said Obadiah.
Here's for you! cried my father, making a pause, and looking in my uncle Toby's face, as if
the thing had not been a matter of fact.--Your worship ordered me to sell him last April, said
Obadiah.--Then go on foot for your pains, cried my father--I had much rather walk than ride,
said Obadiah, shutting the door.

What plagues, cried my father, going on with his calculation.--But the waters are out, said
Obadiah,--opening the door again.

Till that moment, my father, who had a map of Sanson's, and a book of the post-roads before
him, had kept his hand upon the head of his compasses, with one foot of them fixed upon Nevers,
the last stage he had paid for--purposing to go on from that point with his journey and calculation,
as soon as Obadiah quitted the room: but this second attack of Obadiah's, in opening the door
and laying the whole country under water, was too much.--He let go his compasses--or rather
with a mixed motion between accident and anger, he threw them upon the table; and then there
was nothing for him to do, but to return back to Calais (like many others) as wise as he had
set out.

When the letter was brought into the parlour, which contained the news of my brother's death,
my father had got forwards again upon his journey to within a stride of the compasses of the
very same stage of Nevers.--By your leave, Mons. Sanson, cried my father, striking the point
of his compasses through Nevers into the table--and nodding to my uncle Toby to see what was
in the letter--twice of one night, is too much for an English gentleman and his son, Mons.
Sanson, to be turned back from so lousy a town as Nevers--What think'st thou, Toby? added my
father in a sprightly tone.--Unless it be a garrison town, said my uncle Toby--for then--I
shall be a fool, said my father, smiling to himself, as long as I live.--So giving a second
nod--and keeping his compasses still upon Nevers with one hand, and holding his book of the
post-roads in the other--half calculating and half listening, he leaned forwards upon the table
with both elbows, as my uncle Toby hummed over the letter.

...he's gone! said my uncle Toby--Where--Who? cried my father.--My nephew, said my uncle Toby.--What--without
leave--without money--without governor? cried my father in amazement. No:--he is dead, my dear
brother, quoth my uncle Toby.--Without being ill? cried my father again.--I dare say not, said
my uncle Toby, in a low voice, and fetching a deep sigh from the bottom of his heart, he has
been ill enough, poor lad! I'll answer for him--for he is dead.

When Agrippina was told of her son's death, Tacitus informs us, that, not being able to moderate
the violence of her passions, she abruptly broke off her work--My father stuck his compasses
into Nevers, but so much the faster.--What contrarieties! his, indeed, was matter of calculation!--Agrippina's
must have been quite a different affair; who else could pretend to reason from history?

How my father went on, in my opinion, deserves a chapter to itself.--

Chapter 3.III.

...--And a chapter it shall have, and a devil of a one too--so look to yourselves.

'Tis either Plato, or Plutarch, or Seneca, or Xenophon, or Epictetus, or Theophrastus, or Lucian--or
some one perhaps of later date--either Cardan, or Budaeus, or Petrarch, or Stella--or possibly
it may be some divine or father of the church, St. Austin, or St. Cyprian, or Barnard, who
affirms that it is an irresistible and natural passion to weep for the loss of our friends
or children--and Seneca (I'm positive) tells us somewhere, that such griefs evacuate themselves
best by that particular channel--And accordingly we find, that David wept for his son Absalom--Adrian
for his Antinous--Niobe for her children, and that Apollodorus and Crito both shed tears for
Socrates before his death.

My father managed his affliction otherwise; and indeed differently from most men either ancient
or modern; for he neither wept it away, as the Hebrews and the Romans--or slept it off, as
the Laplanders--or hanged it, as the English, or drowned it, as the Germans,--nor did he curse
it, or damn it, or excommunicate it, or rhyme it, or lillabullero it.--

--He got rid of it, however.

Will your worships give me leave to squeeze in a story between these two pages?

When Tully was bereft of his dear daughter Tullia, at first he laid it to his heart,--he listened
to the voice of nature, and modulated his own unto it.--O my Tullia! my daughter! my child!--still,
still, still,--'twas O my Tullia!--my Tullia! Methinks I see my Tullia, I hear my Tullia, I
talk with my Tullia.--But as soon as he began to look into the stores of philosophy, and consider
how many excellent things might be said upon the occasion--no body upon earth can conceive,
says the great orator, how happy, how joyful it made me.

My father was as proud of his eloquence as Marcus Tullius Cicero could be for his life, and,
for aught I am convinced of to the contrary at present, with as much reason: it was indeed
his strength--and his weakness too.--His strength--for he was by nature eloquent; and his weakness--for
he was hourly a dupe to it; and, provided an occasion in life would but permit him to shew
his talents, or say either a wise thing, a witty, or a shrewd one--(bating the case of a systematic
misfortune)--he had all he wanted.--A blessing which tied up my father's tongue, and a misfortune
which let it loose with a good grace, were pretty equal: sometimes, indeed, the misfortune
was the better of the two; for instance, where the pleasure of the harangue was as ten, and
the pain of the misfortune but as five--my father gained half in half, and consequently was
as well again off, as if it had never befallen him.

This clue will unravel what otherwise would seem very inconsistent in my father's domestic
character; and it is this, that, in the provocations arising from the neglects and blunders
of servants, or other mishaps unavoidable in a family, his anger, or rather the duration of
it, eternally ran counter to all conjecture.

My father had a favourite little mare, which he had consigned over to a most beautiful Arabian
horse, in order to have a pad out of her for his own riding: he was sanguine in all his projects;
so talked about his pad every day with as absolute a security, as if it had been reared, broke,--and
bridled and saddled at his door ready for mounting. By some neglect or other in Obadiah, it
so fell out, that my father's expectations were answered with nothing better than a mule, and
as ugly a beast of the kind as ever was produced.

My mother and my uncle Toby expected my father would be the death of Obadiah--and that there
never would be an end of the disaster--See here! you rascal, cried my father, pointing to the
mule, what you have done!--It was not me, said Obadiah.--How do I know that? replied my father.

Triumph swam in my father's eyes, at the repartee--the Attic salt brought water into them--and
so Obadiah heard no more about it.

Now let us go back to my brother's death.

Philosophy has a fine saying for every thing.--For Death it has an entire set; the misery was,
they all at once rushed into my father's head, that 'twas difficult to string them together,
so as to make any thing of a consistent show out of them.--He took them as they came.

''Tis an inevitable chance--the first statute in Magna Charta--it is an everlasting act of
parliament, my dear brother,--All must die.

'If my son could not have died, it had been matter of wonder,--not that he is dead.

'Monarchs and princes dance in the same ring with us.

'--To die, is the great debt and tribute due unto nature: tombs and monuments, which should
perpetuate our memories, pay it themselves; and the proudest pyramid of them all, which wealth
and science have erected, has lost its apex, and stands obtruncated in the traveller's horizon.'
(My father found he got great ease, and went on)--'Kingdoms and provinces, and towns and cities,
have they not their periods? and when those principles and powers, which at first cemented
and put them together, have performed their several evolutions, they fall back.'--Brother Shandy,
said my uncle Toby, laying down his pipe at the word evolutions--Revolutions, I meant, quoth
my father,--by heaven! I meant revolutions, brother Toby--evolutions is nonsense.--'Tis not
nonsense--said my uncle Toby.--But is it not nonsense to break the thread of such a discourse
upon such an occasion? cried my father--do not--dear Toby, continued he, taking him by the
hand, do not--do not, I beseech thee, interrupt me at this crisis.--My uncle Toby put his pipe
into his mouth.

'Where is Troy and Mycenae, and Thebes and Delos, and Persepolis and Agrigentum?'--continued
my father, taking up his book of post-roads, which he had laid down.--'What is become, brother
Toby, of Nineveh and Babylon, of Cizicum and Mitylenae? The fairest towns that ever the sun
rose upon, are now no more; the names only are left, and those (for many of them are wrong
spelt) are falling themselves by piece-meals to decay, and in length of time will be forgotten,
and involved with every thing in a perpetual night: the world itself, brother Toby, must--must
come to an end.

'Returning out of Asia, when I sailed from Aegina towards Megara,' (when can this have been?
thought my uncle Toby,) 'I began to view the country round about. Aegina was behind me, Megara
was before, Pyraeus on the right hand, Corinth on the left.--What flourishing towns now prostrate
upon the earth! Alas! alas! said I to myself, that man should disturb his soul for the loss
of a child, when so much as this lies awfully buried in his presence--Remember, said I to myself
again--remember thou art a man.'--

Now my uncle Toby knew not that this last paragraph was an extract of Servius Sulpicius's consolatory
letter to Tully.--He had as little skill, honest man, in the fragments, as he had in the whole
pieces of antiquity.--And as my father, whilst he was concerned in the Turkey trade, had been
three or four different times in the Levant, in one of which he had stayed a whole year and
an half at Zant, my uncle Toby naturally concluded, that, in some one of these periods, he
had taken a trip across the Archipelago into Asia; and that all this sailing affair with Aegina
behind, and Megara before, and Pyraeus on the right hand, &c. &c. was nothing more than the
true course of my father's voyage and reflections.--'Twas certainly in his manner, and many
an undertaking critic would have built two stories higher upon worse foundations.--And pray,
brother, quoth my uncle Toby, laying the end of his pipe upon my father's hand in a kindly
way of interruption--but waiting till he finished the account--what year of our Lord was this?--'Twas
no year of our Lord, replied my father.--That's impossible, cried my uncle Toby.--Simpleton!
said my father,--'twas forty years before Christ was born.

My uncle Toby had but two things for it; either to suppose his brother to be the wandering
Jew, or that his misfortunes had disordered his brain.--'May the Lord God of heaven and earth
protect him and restore him!' said my uncle Toby, praying silently for my father, and with
tears in his eyes.

--My father placed the tears to a proper account, and went on with his harangue with great spirit.

'There is not such great odds, brother Toby, betwixt good and evil, as the world imagines'--(this
way of setting off, by the bye, was not likely to cure my uncle Toby's suspicions).--'Labour,
sorrow, grief, sickness, want, and woe, are the sauces of life.'--Much good may do them--said
my uncle Toby to himself.--

'My son is dead!--so much the better;--'tis a shame in such a tempest to have but one anchor.

'But he is gone for ever from us!--be it so. He is got from under the hands of his barber before
he was bald--he is but risen from a feast before he was surfeited--from a banquet before he
had got drunken.

'The Thracians wept when a child was born,'--(and we were very near it, quoth my uncle Toby,)--'and
feasted and made merry when a man went out of the world; and with reason.--Death opens the
gate of fame, and shuts the gate of envy after it,--it unlooses the chain of the captive, and
puts the bondsman's task into another man's hands.

'Shew me the man, who knows what life is, who dreads it, and I'll shew thee a prisoner who
dreads his liberty.'

Is it not better, my dear brother Toby, (for mark--our appetites are but diseases,)--is it
not better not to hunger at all, than to eat?--not to thirst, than to take physic to cure it?

Is it not better to be freed from cares and agues, from love and melancholy, and the other
hot and cold fits of life, than, like a galled traveller, who comes weary to his inn, to be
bound to begin his journey afresh?

There is no terrour, brother Toby, in its looks, but what it borrows from groans and convulsions--and
the blowing of noses and the wiping away of tears with the bottoms of curtains, in a dying
man's room.--Strip it of these, what is it?--'Tis better in battle than in bed, said my uncle
Toby.--Take away its hearses, its mutes, and its mourning,--its plumes, scutcheons, and other
mechanic aids--What is it?--Better in battle! continued my father, smiling, for he had absolutely
forgot my brother Bobby--'tis terrible no way--for consider, brother Toby,--when we are--death
is not;--and when death is--we are not. My uncle Toby laid down his pipe to consider the proposition;
my father's eloquence was too rapid to stay for any man--away it went,--and hurried my uncle
Toby's ideas along with it.--

For this reason, continued my father, 'tis worthy to recollect, how little alteration, in great
men, the approaches of death have made.--Vespasian died in a jest upon his close-stool--Galba
with a sentence--Septimus Severus in a dispatch--Tiberius in dissimulation, and Caesar Augustus
in a compliment.--I hope 'twas a sincere one--quoth my uncle Toby.

--'Twas to his wife,--said my father.

Chapter 3.IV.

--And lastly--for all the choice anecdotes which history can produce of this matter, continued
my father,--this, like the gilded dome which covers in the fabric--crowns all.--

'Tis of Cornelius Gallus, the praetor--which, I dare say, brother Toby, you have read.--I dare
say I have not, replied my uncle.--He died, said my father as...--And if it was with his wife,
said my uncle Toby--there could be no hurt in it.--That's more than I know--replied my father.

Chapter 3.V.

My mother was going very gingerly in the dark along the passage which led to the parlour, as
my uncle Toby pronounced the word wife.--'Tis a shrill penetrating sound of itself, and Obadiah
had helped it by leaving the door a little a-jar, so that my mother heard enough of it to imagine
herself the subject of the conversation; so laying the edge of her finger across her two lips--holding
in her breath, and bending her head a little downwards, with a twist of her neck--(not towards
the door, but from it, by which means her ear was brought to the chink)--she listened with
all her powers:--the listening slave, with the Goddess of Silence at his back, could not have
given a finer thought for an intaglio.

In this attitude I am determined to let her stand for five minutes: till I bring up the affairs
of the kitchen (as Rapin does those of the church) to the same period.

Chapter 3.VI.

Though in one sense, our family was certainly a simple machine, as it consisted of a few wheels;
yet there was thus much to be said for it, that these wheels were set in motion by so many
different springs, and acted one upon the other from such a variety of strange principles and
impulses--that though it was a simple machine, it had all the honour and advantages of a complex
one,--and a number of as odd movements within it, as ever were beheld in the inside of a Dutch
silk-mill.

Amongst these there was one, I am going to speak of, in which, perhaps, it was not altogether
so singular, as in many others; and it was this, that whatever motion, debate, harangue, dialogue,
project, or dissertation, was going forwards in the parlour, there was generally another at
the same time, and upon the same subject, running parallel along with it in the kitchen.

Now to bring this about, whenever an extraordinary message, or letter, was delivered in the
parlour--or a discourse suspended till a servant went out--or the lines of discontent were
observed to hang upon the brows of my father or mother--or, in short, when any thing was supposed
to be upon the tapis worth knowing or listening to, 'twas the rule to leave the door, not absolutely
shut, but somewhat a-jar--as it stands just now,--which, under covert of the bad hinge, (and
that possibly might be one of the many reasons why it was never mended,) it was not difficult
to manage; by which means, in all these cases, a passage was generally left, not indeed as
wide as the Dardanelles, but wide enough, for all that, to carry on as much of this windward
trade, as was sufficient to save my father the trouble of governing his house;--my mother at
this moment stands profiting by it.--Obadiah did the same thing, as soon as he had left the
letter upon the table which brought the news of my brother's death, so that before my father
had well got over his surprise, and entered upon his harangue,--had Trim got upon his legs,
to speak his sentiments upon the subject.

A curious observer of nature, had he been worth the inventory of all Job's stock--though by
the bye, your curious observers are seldom worth a groat--would have given the half of it,
to have heard Corporal Trim and my father, two orators so contrasted by nature and education,
haranguing over the same bier.

My father--a man of deep reading--prompt memory--with Cato, and Seneca, and Epictetus, at his
fingers ends.--

The corporal--with nothing--to remember--of no deeper reading than his muster-roll--or greater
names at his fingers end, than the contents of it.

The one proceeding from period to period, by metaphor and allusion, and striking the fancy
as he went along (as men of wit and fancy do) with the entertainment and pleasantry of his
pictures and images.

The other, without wit or antithesis, or point, or turn, this way or that; but leaving the
images on one side, and the picture on the other, going straight forwards as nature could lead
him, to the heart. O Trim! would to heaven thou had'st a better historian!--would!--thy historian
had a better pair of breeches!--O ye critics! will nothing melt you?

Chapter 3.VII.

--My young master in London is dead? said Obadiah.--

--A green sattin night-gown of my mother's, which had been twice scoured, was the first idea
which Obadiah's exclamation brought into Susannah's head.--Well might Locke write a chapter
upon the imperfections of words.--Then, quoth Susannah, we must all go into mourning.--But
note a second time: the word mourning, notwithstanding Susannah made use of it herself--failed
also of doing its office; it excited not one single idea, tinged either with grey or black,--all
was green.--The green sattin night-gown hung there still.

--O! 'twill be the death of my poor mistress, cried Susannah.--My mother's whole wardrobe followed.--What
a procession! her red damask,--her orange tawney,--her white and yellow lutestrings,--her brown
taffata,--her bone-laced caps, her bed-gowns, and comfortable under-petticoats.--Not a rag
was left behind.--'No,--she will never look up again,' said Susannah.

We had a fat, foolish scullion--my father, I think, kept her for her simplicity;--she had been
all autumn struggling with a dropsy.--He is dead, said Obadiah,--he is certainly dead!--So
am not I, said the foolish scullion.

--Here is sad news, Trim, cried Susannah, wiping her eyes as Trim stepp'd into the kitchen,--master
Bobby is dead and buried--the funeral was an interpolation of Susannah's--we shall have all
to go into mourning, said Susannah.

I hope not, said Trim.--You hope not! cried Susannah earnestly.--The mourning ran not in Trim's
head, whatever it did in Susannah's.--I hope--said Trim, explaining himself, I hope in God
the news is not true. I heard the letter read with my own ears, answered Obadiah; and we shall
have a terrible piece of work of it in stubbing the ox-moor.--Oh! he's dead, said Susannah.--As
sure, said the scullion, as I'm alive.

I lament for him from my heart and my soul, said Trim, fetching a sigh.--Poor creature!--poor
boy!--poor gentleman!

--He was alive last Whitsontide! said the coachman.--Whitsontide! alas! cried Trim, extending
his right arm, and falling instantly into the same attitude in which he read the sermon,--what
is Whitsontide, Jonathan (for that was the coachman's name), or Shrovetide, or any tide or
time past, to this? Are we not here now, continued the corporal (striking the end of his stick
perpendicularly upon the floor, so as to give an idea of health and stability)--and are we
not--(dropping his hat upon the ground) gone! in a moment!--'Twas infinitely striking! Susannah
burst into a flood of tears.--We are not stocks and stones.--Jonathan, Obadiah, the cook-maid,
all melted.--The foolish fat scullion herself, who was scouring a fish-kettle upon her knees,
was rous'd with it.--The whole kitchen crowded about the corporal.

Now, as I perceive plainly, that the preservation of our constitution in church and state,--and
possibly the preservation of the whole world--or what is the same thing, the distribution and
balance of its property and power, may in time to come depend greatly upon the right understanding
of this stroke of the corporal's eloquence--I do demand your attention--your worships and reverences,
for any ten pages together, take them where you will in any other part of the work, shall sleep
for it at your ease.

I said, 'we were not stocks and stones'--'tis very well. I should have added, nor are we angels,
I wish we were,--but men clothed with bodies, and governed by our imaginations;--and what a
junketing piece of work of it there is, betwixt these and our seven senses, especially some
of them, for my own part, I own it, I am ashamed to confess. Let it suffice to affirm, that
of all the senses, the eye (for I absolutely deny the touch, though most of your Barbati, I
know, are for it) has the quickest commerce with the soul,--gives a smarter stroke, and leaves
something more inexpressible upon the fancy, than words can either convey--or sometimes get rid of.

--I've gone a little about--no matter, 'tis for health--let us only carry it back in our mind
to the mortality of Trim's hat--'Are we not here now,--and gone in a moment?'--There was nothing
in the sentence--'twas one of your self-evident truths we have the advantage of hearing every
day; and if Trim had not trusted more to his hat than his head--he made nothing at all of it.

--'Are we not here now;' continued the corporal, 'and are we not'--(dropping his hat plumb
upon the ground--and pausing, before he pronounced the word)--'gone! in a moment?' The descent
of the hat was as if a heavy lump of clay had been kneaded into the crown of it.--Nothing could
have expressed the sentiment of mortality, of which it was the type and fore-runner, like it,--his
hand seemed to vanish from under it,--it fell dead,--the corporal's eye fixed upon it, as upon
a corpse,--and Susannah burst into a flood of tears.

Now--Ten thousand, and ten thousand times ten thousand (for matter and motion are infinite)
are the ways by which a hat may be dropped upon the ground, without any effect.--Had he flung
it, or thrown it, or cast it, or skimmed it, or squirted it, or let it slip or fall in any
possible direction under heaven,--or in the best direction that could be given to it,--had
he dropped it like a goose--like a puppy--like an ass--or in doing it, or even after he had
done, had he looked like a fool--like a ninny--like a nincompoop--it had fail'd, and the effect
upon the heart had been lost.

Ye who govern this mighty world and its mighty concerns with the engines of eloquence,--who
heat it, and cool it, and melt it, and mollify it,--and then harden it again to your purpose--

Ye who wind and turn the passions with this great windlass, and, having done it, lead the owners
of them, whither ye think meet.

Ye, lastly, who drive--and why not, Ye also who are driven, like turkeys to market with a stick
and a red clout--meditate--meditate, I beseech you, upon Trim's hat.

Chapter 3.VIII.

Stay--I have a small account to settle with the reader before Trim can go on with his harangue.--It
shall be done in two minutes.

Amongst many other book-debts, all of which I shall discharge in due time,--I own myself a
debtor to the world for two items,--a chapter upon chamber-maids and button-holes, which, in
the former part of my work, I promised and fully intended to pay off this year: but some of
your worships and reverences telling me, that the two subjects, especially so connected together,
might endanger the morals of the world,--I pray the chapter upon chamber-maids and button-holes
may be forgiven me,--and that they will accept of the last chapter in lieu of it; which is
nothing, an't please your reverences, but a chapter of chamber-maids, green gowns, and old hats.

Trim took his hat off the ground,--put it upon his head,--and then went on with his oration
upon death, in manner and form following.

Chapter 3.IX.

--To us, Jonathan, who know not what want or care is--who live here in the service of two of
the best of masters--(bating in my own case his majesty King William the Third, whom I had
the honour to serve both in Ireland and Flanders)--I own it, that from Whitsontide to within
three weeks of Christmas,--'tis not long--'tis like nothing;--but to those, Jonathan, who know
what death is, and what havock and destruction he can make, before a man can well wheel about--'tis
like a whole age.--O Jonathan! (Susannah laid her hand upon Trim's shoulder)--but corruption?--Susannah
took it off.

Chapter 3.X.

Whether Susannah, by taking her hand too suddenly from off the corporal's shoulder (by the
whisking about of her passions)--broke a little the chain of his reflexions--

Or whether the corporal began to be suspicious, he had got into the doctor's quarters, and
was talking more like the chaplain than himself--

Or whether...Or whether--for in all such cases a man of invention and parts may with pleasure
fill a couple of pages with suppositions--which of all these was the cause, let the curious
physiologist, or the curious any body determine--'tis certain, at least, the corporal went
on thus with his harangue.

For my own part, I declare it, that out of doors, I value not death at all:--not this...added
the corporal, snapping his fingers,--but with an air which no one but the corporal could have
given to the sentiment.--In battle, I value death not this...and let him not take me cowardly,
like poor Joe Gibbins, in scouring his gun.--What is he? A pull of a trigger--a push of a bayonet
an inch this way or that--makes the difference.--Look along the line--to the right--see! Jack's
down! well,--'tis worth a regiment of horse to him.--No--'tis Dick. Then Jack's no worse.--Never
mind which,--we pass on,--in hot pursuit the wound itself which brings him is not felt,--the
best way is to stand up to him,--the man who flies, is in ten times more danger than the man
who marches up into his jaws.--I've look'd him, added the corporal, an hundred times in the
face,--and know what he is.--He's nothing, Obadiah, at all in the field.--But he's very frightful
in a house, quoth Obadiah.--I never mind it myself, said Jonathan, upon a coach-box.--It must,
in my opinion, be most natural in bed, replied Susannah.--And could I escape him by creeping
into the worst calf's skin that ever was made into a knapsack, I would do it there--said Trim--but
that is nature.

--Nature is nature, said Jonathan.--And that is the reason, cried Susannah, I so much pity
my mistress.--She will never get the better of it.--Now I pity the captain the most of any
one in the family, answered Trim.--Madam will get ease of heart in weeping,--and the Squire
in talking about it,--but my poor master will keep it all in silence to himself.--I shall hear
him sigh in his bed for a whole month together, as he did for lieutenant Le Fever. An' please
your honour, do not sigh so piteously, I would say to him as I laid besides him. I cannot help
it, Trim, my master would say,--'tis so melancholy an accident--I cannot get it off my heart.--Your
honour fears not death yourself.--I hope, Trim, I fear nothing, he would say, but the doing
a wrong thing.--Well, he would add, whatever betides, I will take care of Le Fever's boy.--And
with that, like a quieting draught, his honour would fall asleep.

I like to hear Trim's stories about the captain, said Susannah.--He is a kindly-hearted gentleman,
said Obadiah, as ever lived.--Aye, and as brave a one too, said the corporal, as ever stept
before a platoon.--There never was a better officer in the king's army,--or a better man in
God's world; for he would march up to the mouth of a cannon, though he saw the lighted match
at the very touch-hole,--and yet, for all that, he has a heart as soft as a child for other
people.--He would not hurt a chicken.--I would sooner, quoth Jonathan, drive such a gentleman
for seven pounds a year--than some for eight.--Thank thee, Jonathan! for thy twenty shillings,--as
much, Jonathan, said the corporal, shaking him by the hand, as if thou hadst put the money
into my own pocket.--I would serve him to the day of my death out of love. He is a friend and
a brother to me,--and could I be sure my poor brother Tom was dead,--continued the corporal,
taking out his handkerchief,--was I worth ten thousand pounds, I would leave every shilling
of it to the captain.--Trim could not refrain from tears at this testamentary proof he gave
of his affection to his master.--The whole kitchen was affected.--Do tell us the story of the
poor lieutenant, said Susannah.--With all my heart, answered the corporal.

Susannah, the cook, Jonathan, Obadiah, and corporal Trim, formed a circle about the fire; and
as soon as the scullion had shut the kitchen door,--the corporal begun.

Chapter 3.XI.

I am a Turk if I had not as much forgot my mother, as if Nature had plaistered me up, and set
me down naked upon the banks of the river Nile, without one.--Your most obedient servant, Madam--I've
cost you a great deal of trouble,--I wish it may answer;--but you have left a crack in my back,--and
here's a great piece fallen off here before,--and what must I do with this foot?--I shall never
reach England with it.

For my own part, I never wonder at any thing;--and so often has my judgment deceived me in
my life, that I always suspect it, right or wrong,--at least I am seldom hot upon cold subjects.
For all this, I reverence truth as much as any body; and when it has slipped us, if a man will
but take me by the hand, and go quietly and search for it, as for a thing we have both lost,
and can neither of us do well without,--I'll go to the world's end with him:--But I hate disputes,--and
therefore (bating religious points, or such as touch society) I would almost subscribe to any
thing which does not choak me in the first passage, rather than be drawn into one--But I cannot
bear suffocation,--and bad smells worst of all.--For which reasons, I resolved from the beginning,
That if ever the army of martyrs was to be augmented,--or a new one raised,--I would have no
hand in it, one way or t'other.

Chapter 3.XII.

--But to return to my mother.

My uncle Toby's opinion, Madam, 'that there could be no harm in Cornelius Gallus, the Roman
praetor's lying with his wife;'--or rather the last word of that opinion,--(for it was all
my mother heard of it) caught hold of her by the weak part of the whole sex:--You shall not
mistake me,--I mean her curiosity,--she instantly concluded herself the subject of the conversation,
and with that prepossession upon her fancy, you will readily conceive every word my father
said, was accommodated either to herself, or her family concerns.

--Pray, Madam, in what street does the lady live, who would not have done the same?

From the strange mode of Cornelius's death, my father had made a transition to that of Socrates,
and was giving my uncle Toby an abstract of his pleading before his judges;--'twas irresistible:--not
the oration of Socrates,--but my father's temptation to it.--He had wrote the Life of Socrates
(This book my father would never consent to publish; 'tis in manuscript, with some other tracts
of his, in the family, all, or most of which will be printed in due time.) himself the year
before he left off trade, which, I fear, was the means of hastening him out of it;--so that
no one was able to set out with so full a sail, and in so swelling a tide of heroic loftiness
upon the occasion, as my father was. Not a period in Socrates's oration, which closed with
a shorter word than transmigration, or annihilation,--or a worse thought in the middle of it
than to be--or not to be,--the entering upon a new and untried state of things,--or, upon a
long, a profound and peaceful sleep, without dreams, without disturbance?--That we and our
children were born to die,--but neither of us born to be slaves.--No--there I mistake; that
was part of Eleazer's oration, as recorded by Josephus (de Bell. Judaic)--Eleazer owns he had
it from the philosophers of India; in all likelihood Alexander the Great, in his irruption
into India, after he had over-run Persia, amongst the many things he stole,--stole that sentiment
also; by which means it was carried, if not all the way by himself (for we all know he died
at Babylon), at least by some of his maroders, into Greece,--from Greece it got to Rome,--from
Rome to France,--and from France to England:--So things come round.--

By land carriage, I can conceive no other way.--

By water the sentiment might easily have come down the Ganges into the Sinus Gangeticus, or
Bay of Bengal, and so into the Indian Sea; and following the course of trade (the way from
India by the Cape of Good Hope being then unknown), might be carried with other drugs and spices
up the Red Sea to Joddah, the port of Mekka, or else to Tor or Sues, towns at the bottom of
the gulf; and from thence by karrawans to Coptos, but three days journey distant, so down the
Nile directly to Alexandria, where the Sentiment would be landed at the very foot of the great
stair-case of the Alexandrian library,--and from that store-house it would be fetched.--Bless
me! what a trade was driven by the learned in those days!

Chapter 3.XIII.

--Now my father had a way, a little like that of Job's (in case there ever was such a man--if
not, there's an end of the matter.--

Though, by the bye, because your learned men find some difficulty in fixing the precise aera
in which so great a man lived;--whether, for instance, before or after the patriarchs, &c.--to
vote, therefore, that he never lived at all, is a little cruel,--'tis not doing as they would
be done by,--happen that as it may)--My father, I say, had a way, when things went extremely
wrong with him, especially upon the first sally of his impatience,--of wondering why he was
begot,--wishing himself dead;--sometimes worse:--And when the provocation ran high, and grief
touched his lips with more than ordinary powers--Sir, you scarce could have distinguished him
from Socrates himself.--Every word would breathe the sentiments of a soul disdaining life,
and careless about all its issues; for which reason, though my mother was a woman of no deep
reading, yet the abstract of Socrates's oration, which my father was giving my uncle Toby,
was not altogether new to her.--She listened to it with composed intelligence, and would have
done so to the end of the chapter, had not my father plunged (which he had no occasion to have
done) into that part of the pleading where the great philosopher reckons up his connections,
his alliances, and children; but renounces a security to be so won by working upon the passions
of his judges.--'I have friends--I have relations,--I have three desolate children,'--says
Socrates.--

--Then, cried my mother, opening the door,--you have one more, Mr. Shandy, than I know of.

By heaven! I have one less,--said my father, getting up and walking out of the room.

Chapter 3.XIV.

--They are Socrates's children, said my uncle Toby. He has been dead a hundred years ago, replied
my mother.

My uncle Toby was no chronologer--so not caring to advance one step but upon safe ground, he
laid down his pipe deliberately upon the table, and rising up, and taking my mother most kindly
by the hand, without saying another word, either good or bad, to her, he led her out after
my father, that he might finish the ecclaircissement himself.

Chapter 3.XV.

Had this volume been a farce, which, unless every one's life and opinions are to be looked
upon as a farce as well as mine, I see no reason to suppose--the last chapter, Sir, had finished
the first act of it, and then this chapter must have set off thus.

O! there is--whom I could sit and hear whole days,--whose talents lie in making what he fiddles
to be felt,--who inspires me with his joys and hopes, and puts the most hidden springs of my
heart into motion.--If you would borrow five guineas of me, Sir,--which is generally ten guineas
more than I have to spare--or you Messrs. Apothecary and Taylor, want your bills paying,--that's
your time.

Chapter 3.XVI.

The first thing which entered my father's head, after affairs were a little settled in the
family, and Susanna had got possession of my mother's green sattin night-gown,--was to sit
down coolly, after the example of Xenophon, and write a Tristra-paedia, or system of education
for me; collecting first for that purpose his own scattered thoughts, counsels, and notions;
and binding them together, so as to form an Institute for the government of my childhood and
adolescence. I was my father's last stake--he had lost my brother Bobby entirely,--he had lost,
by his own computation, full three-fourths of me--that is, he had been unfortunate in his three
first great casts for me--my geniture, nose, and name,--there was but this one left; and accordingly
my father gave himself up to it with as much devotion as ever my uncle Toby had done to his
doctrine of projectils.--The difference between them was, that my uncle Toby drew his whole
knowledge of projectils from Nicholas Tartaglia--My father spun his, every thread of it, out
of his own brain,--or reeled and cross-twisted what all other spinners and spinsters had spun
before him, that 'twas pretty near the same torture to him.

In about three years, or something more, my father had got advanced almost into the middle
of his work.--Like all other writers, he met with disappointments.--He imagined he should be
able to bring whatever he had to say, into so small a compass, that when it was finished and
bound, it might be rolled up in my mother's hussive.--Matter grows under our hands.--Let no
man say,--'Come--I'll write a duodecimo.'

My father gave himself up to it, however, with the most painful diligence, proceeding step
by step in every line, with the same kind of caution and circumspection (though I cannot say
upon quite so religious a principle) as was used by John de la Casse, the lord archbishop of
Benevento, in compassing his Galatea; in which his Grace of Benevento spent near forty years
of his life; and when the thing came out, it was not of above half the size or the thickness
of a Rider's Almanack.--How the holy man managed the affair, unless he spent the greatest part
of his time in combing his whiskers, or playing at primero with his chaplain,--would pose any
mortal not let into the true secret;--and therefore 'tis worth explaining to the world, was
it only for the encouragement of those few in it, who write not so much to be fed--as to be famous.

I own had John de la Casse, the archbishop of Benevento, for whose memory (notwithstanding
his Galatea,) I retain the highest veneration,--had he been, Sir, a slender clerk--of dull
wit--slow parts--costive head, and so forth,--he and his Galatea might have jogged on together
to the age of Methuselah for me,--the phaenomenon had not been worth a parenthesis.--

But the reverse of this was the truth: John de la Casse was a genius of fine parts and fertile
fancy; and yet with all these great advantages of nature, which should have pricked him forwards
with his Galatea, he lay under an impuissance at the same time of advancing above a line and
a half in the compass of a whole summer's day: this disability in his Grace arose from an opinion
he was afflicted with,--which opinion was this,--viz. that whenever a Christian was writing
a book (not for his private amusement, but) where his intent and purpose was, bona fide, to
print and publish it to the world, his first thoughts were always the temptations of the evil
one.--This was the state of ordinary writers: but when a personage of venerable character and
high station, either in church or state, once turned author,--he maintained, that from the
very moment he took pen in hand--all the devils in hell broke out of their holes to cajole
him.--'Twas Term-time with them,--every thought, first and last, was captious;--how specious
and good soever,--'twas all one;--in whatever form or colour it presented itself to the imagination,--'twas
still a stroke of one or other of 'em levell'd at him, and was to be fenced off.--So that the
life of a writer, whatever he might fancy to the contrary, was not so much a state of composition,
as a state of warfare; and his probation in it, precisely that of any other man militant upon
earth,--both depending alike, not half so much upon the degrees of his wit--as his Resistance.

My father was hugely pleased with this theory of John de la Casse, archbishop of Benevento;
and (had it not cramped him a little in his creed) I believe would have given ten of the best
acres in the Shandy estate, to have been the broacher of it.--How far my father actually believed
in the devil, will be seen, when I come to speak of my father's religious notions, in the progress
of this work: 'tis enough to say here, as he could not have the honour of it, in the literal
sense of the doctrine--he took up with the allegory of it; and would often say, especially
when his pen was a little retrograde, there was as much good meaning, truth, and knowledge,
couched under the veil of John de la Casse's parabolical representation,--as was to be found
in any one poetic fiction or mystic record of antiquity.--Prejudice of education, he would
say, is the devil,--and the multitudes of them which we suck in with our mother's milk--are
the devil and all.--We are haunted with them, brother Toby, in all our lucubrations and researches;
and was a man fool enough to submit tamely to what they obtruded upon him,--what would his
book be? Nothing,--he would add, throwing his pen away with a vengeance,--nothing but a farrago
of the clack of nurses, and of the nonsense of the old women (of both sexes) throughout the
kingdom.

This is the best account I am determined to give of the slow progress my father made in his
Tristra-paedia; at which (as I said) he was three years, and something more, indefatigably
at work, and, at last, had scarce completed, by this own reckoning, one half of his undertaking:
the misfortune was, that I was all that time totally neglected and abandoned to my mother;
and what was almost as bad, by the very delay, the first part of the work, upon which my father
had spent the most of his pains, was rendered entirely useless,--every day a page or two became
of no consequence.--

--Certainly it was ordained as a scourge upon the pride of human wisdom, That the wisest of
us all should thus outwit ourselves, and eternally forego our purposes in the intemperate act
of pursuing them.

In short my father was so long in all his acts of resistance,--or in other words,--he advanced
so very slow with his work, and I began to live and get forwards at such a rate, that if an
event had not happened,--which, when we get to it, if it can be told with decency, shall not
be concealed a moment from the reader--I verily believe, I had put by my father, and left him
drawing a sundial, for no better purpose than to be buried under ground.

Chapter 3.XVII.

--'Twas nothing,--I did not lose two drops of blood by it--'twas not worth calling in a surgeon,
had he lived next door to us--thousands suffer by choice, what I did by accident.--Doctor Slop
made ten times more of it, than there was occasion:--some men rise, by the art of hanging great
weights upon small wires,--and I am this day (August the 10th, 1761) paying part of the price
of this man's reputation.--O 'twould provoke a stone, to see how things are carried on in this
world!--The chamber-maid had left no .......... under the bed:--Cannot you contrive, master,
quoth Susannah, lifting up the sash with one hand, as she spoke, and helping me up into the
window-seat with the other,--cannot you manage, my dear, for a single time, to..................?

I was five years old.--Susannah did not consider that nothing was well hung in our family,--so
slap came the sash down like lightning upon us;--Nothing is left,--cried Susannah,--nothing
is left--for me, but to run my country.--My uncle Toby's house was a much kinder sanctuary;
and so Susannah fled to it.

Chapter 3.XVIII.

When Susannah told the corporal the misadventure of the sash, with all the circumstances which
attended the murder of me,--(as she called it,)--the blood forsook his cheeks,--all accessaries
in murder being principals,--Trim's conscience told him he was as much to blame as Susannah,--and
if the doctrine had been true, my uncle Toby had as much of the bloodshed to answer for to
heaven, as either of 'em;--so that neither reason or instinct, separate or together, could
possibly have guided Susannah's steps to so proper an asylum. It is in vain to leave this to
the Reader's imagination:--to form any kind of hypothesis that will render these propositions
feasible, he must cudgel his brains sore,--and to do it without,--he must have such brains
as no reader ever had before him.--Why should I put them either to trial or to torture? 'Tis
my own affair: I'll explain it myself.

Chapter 3.XIX.

'Tis a pity, Trim, said my uncle Toby, resting with his hand upon the corporal's shoulder,
as they both stood surveying their works,--that we have not a couple of field-pieces to mount
in the gorge of that new redoubt;--'twould secure the lines all along there, and make the attack
on that side quite complete:--get me a couple cast, Trim.

Your honour shall have them, replied Trim, before tomorrow morning.

It was the joy of Trim's heart, nor was his fertile head ever at a loss for expedients in doing
it, to supply my uncle Toby in his campaigns, with whatever his fancy called for; had it been
his last crown, he would have sate down and hammered it into a paderero, to have prevented
a single wish in his master. The corporal had already,--what with cutting off the ends of my
uncle Toby's spouts--hacking and chiseling up the sides of his leaden gutters,--melting down
his pewter shaving-bason,--and going at last, like Lewis the Fourteenth, on to the top of the
church, for spare ends, &c.--he had that very campaign brought no less than eight new battering
cannons, besides three demi-culverins, into the field; my uncle Toby's demand for two more
pieces for the redoubt, had set the corporal at work again; and no better resource offering,
he had taken the two leaden weights from the nursery window: and as the sash pullies, when
the lead was gone, were of no kind of use, he had taken them away also, to make a couple of
wheels for one of their carriages.

He had dismantled every sash-window in my uncle Toby's house long before, in the very same
way,--though not always in the same order; for sometimes the pullies have been wanted, and
not the lead,--so then he began with the pullies,--and the pullies being picked out, then the
lead became useless,--and so the lead went to pot too.

--A great Moral might be picked handsomely out of this, but I have not time--'tis enough to
say, wherever the demolition began, 'twas equally fatal to the sash window.

Chapter 3.XX.

The corporal had not taken his measures so badly in this stroke of artilleryship, but that
he might have kept the matter entirely to himself, and left Susannah to have sustained the
whole weight of the attack, as she could;--true courage is not content with coming off so.--The
corporal, whether as general or comptroller of the train,--'twas no matter,--had done that,
without which, as he imagined, the misfortune could never have happened,--at least in Susannah's
hands;--How would your honours have behaved?--He determined at once, not to take shelter behind
Susannah,--but to give it; and with this resolution upon his mind, he marched upright into
the parlour, to lay the whole manoeuvre before my uncle Toby.

My uncle Toby had just then been giving Yorick an account of the Battle of Steenkirk, and of
the strange conduct of count Solmes in ordering the foot to halt, and the horse to march where
it could not act; which was directly contrary to the king's commands, and proved the loss of
the day.

There are incidents in some families so pat to the purpose of what is going to follow,--they
are scarce exceeded by the invention of a dramatic writer;--I mean of ancient days.--

Trim, by the help of his fore-finger, laid flat upon the table, and the edge of his hand striking
across it at right angles, made a shift to tell his story so, that priests and virgins might
have listened to it;--and the story being told,--the dialogue went on as follows.

Chapter 3.XXI.

--I would be picquetted to death, cried the corporal, as he concluded Susannah's story, before
I would suffer the woman to come to any harm,--'twas my fault, an' please your honour,--not her's.

Corporal Trim, replied my uncle Toby, putting on his hat which lay upon the table,--if any
thing can be said to be a fault, when the service absolutely requires it should be done,--'tis
I certainly who deserve the blame,--you obeyed your orders.

Had count Solmes, Trim, done the same at the battle of Steenkirk, said Yorick, drolling a little
upon the corporal, who had been run over by a dragoon in the retreat,--he had saved thee;--Saved!
cried Trim, interrupting Yorick, and finishing the sentence for him after his own fashion,--he
had saved five battalions, an' please your reverence, every soul of them:--there was Cutt's,--continued
the corporal, clapping the forefinger of his right hand upon the thumb of his left, and counting
round his hand,--there was Cutt's,--Mackay's,--Angus's,--Graham's,--and Leven's, all cut to
pieces;--and so had the English life-guards too, had it not been for some regiments upon the
right, who marched up boldly to their relief, and received the enemy's fire in their faces,
before any one of their own platoons discharged a musket,--they'll go to heaven for it,--added
Trim.--Trim is right, said my uncle Toby, nodding to Yorick,--he's perfectly right. What signified
his marching the horse, continued the corporal, where the ground was so strait, that the French
had such a nation of hedges, and copses, and ditches, and fell'd trees laid this way and that
to cover them (as they always have).--Count Solmes should have sent us,--we would have fired
muzzle to muzzle with them for their lives.--There was nothing to be done for the horse:--he
had his foot shot off however for his pains, continued the corporal, the very next campaign
at Landen.--Poor Trim got his wound there, quoth my uncle Toby.--'Twas owing, an' please your
honour, entirely to count Solmes,--had he drubbed them soundly at Steenkirk, they would not
have fought us at Landen.--Possibly not,--Trim, said my uncle Toby;--though if they have the
advantage of a wood, or you give them a moment's time to intrench themselves, they are a nation
which will pop and pop for ever at you.--There is no way but to march coolly up to them,--receive
their fire, and fall in upon them, pell-mell--Ding dong, added Trim.--Horse and foot, said
my uncle Toby.--Helter Skelter, said Trim.--Right and left, cried my uncle Toby.--Blood an'
ounds, shouted the corporal;--the battle raged,--Yorick drew his chair a little to one side
for safety, and after a moment's pause, my uncle Toby sinking his voice a note,--resumed the
discourse as follows.

Chapter 3.XXII.

King William, said my uncle Toby, addressing himself to Yorick, was so terribly provoked at
count Solmes for disobeying his orders, that he would not suffer him to come into his presence
for many months after.--I fear, answered Yorick, the squire will be as much provoked at the
corporal, as the King at the count.--But 'twould be singularly hard in this case, continued
be, if corporal Trim, who has behaved so diametrically opposite to count Solmes, should have
the fate to be rewarded with the same disgrace:--too oft in this world, do things take that
train.--I would spring a mine, cried my uncle Toby, rising up,--and blow up my fortifications,
and my house with them, and we would perish under their ruins, ere I would stand by and see
it.--Trim directed a slight,--but a grateful bow towards his master,--and so the chapter ends.

Chapter 3.XXIII.

--Then, Yorick, replied my uncle Toby, you and I will lead the way abreast,--and do you, corporal,
follow a few paces behind us.--And Susannah, an' please your honour, said Trim, shall be put
in the rear.--'Twas an excellent disposition,--and in this order, without either drums beating,
or colours flying, they marched slowly from my uncle Toby's house to Shandy-hall.

--I wish, said Trim, as they entered the door,--instead of the sash weights, I had cut off
the church spout, as I once thought to have done.--You have cut off spouts enow, replied Yorick.

Chapter 3.XXIV.

As many pictures as have been given of my father, how like him soever in different airs and
attitudes,--not one, or all of them, can ever help the reader to any kind of preconception
of how my father would think, speak, or act, upon any untried occasion or occurrence of life.--There
was that infinitude of oddities in him, and of chances along with it, by which handle he would
take a thing,--it baffled, Sir, all calculations.--The truth was, his road lay so very far
on one side, from that wherein most men travelled,--that every object before him presented
a face and section of itself to his eye, altogether different from the plan and elevation of
it seen by the rest of mankind.--In other words, 'twas a different object, and in course was
differently considered:

This is the true reason, that my dear Jenny and I, as well as all the world besides us, have
such eternal squabbles about nothing.--She looks at her outside,--I, at her in.... How is it
possible we should agree about her value?

Chapter 3.XXV.

'Tis a point settled,--and I mention it for the comfort of Confucius, (Mr Shandy is supposed
to mean..., Esq; member for...,--and not the Chinese Legislator.) who is apt to get entangled
in telling a plain story--that provided he keeps along the line of his story,--he may go backwards
and forwards as he will,--'tis still held to be no digression.

This being premised, I take the benefit of the act of going backwards myself.

Chapter 3.XXVI.

Fifty thousand pannier loads of devils--(not of the Archbishop of Benevento's--I mean of Rabelais's
devils), with their tails chopped off by their rumps, could not have made so diabolical a scream
of it, as I did--when the accident befel me: it summoned up my mother instantly into the nursery,--so
that Susannah had but just time to make her escape down the back stairs, as my mother came
up the fore.

Now, though I was old enough to have told the story myself,--and young enough, I hope, to have
done it without malignity; yet Susannah, in passing by the kitchen, for fear of accidents,
had left it in short-hand with the cook--the cook had told it with a commentary to Jonathan,
and Jonathan to Obadiah; so that by the time my father had rung the bell half a dozen times,
to know what was the matter above,--was Obadiah enabled to give him a particular account of
it, just as it had happened.--I thought as much, said my father, tucking up his night-gown;--and
so walked up stairs.

One would imagine from this--(though for my own part I somewhat question it)--that my father,
before that time, had actually wrote that remarkable character in the Tristra-paedia, which
to me is the most original and entertaining one in the whole book;--and that is the chapter
upon sash-windows, with a bitter Philippick at the end of it, upon the forgetfulness of chamber-maids.--I
have but two reasons for thinking otherwise.

First, Had the matter been taken into consideration, before the event happened, my father certainly
would have nailed up the sash window for good an' all;--which, considering with what difficulty
he composed books,--he might have done with ten times less trouble, than he could have wrote
the chapter: this argument I foresee holds good against his writing a chapter, even after the
event; but 'tis obviated under the second reason, which I have the honour to offer to the world
in support of my opinion, that my father did not write the chapter upon sash-windows and chamber-pots,
at the time supposed,--and it is this.

--That, in order to render the Tristra-paedia complete,--I wrote the chapter myself.

Chapter 3.XXVII.

My father put on his spectacles--looked,--took them off,--put them into the case--all in less
than a statutable minute; and without opening his lips, turned about and walked precipitately
down stairs: my mother imagined he had stepped down for lint and basilicon; but seeing him
return with a couple of folios under his arm, and Obadiah following him with a large reading-desk,
she took it for granted 'twas an herbal, and so drew him a chair to the bedside, that he might
consult upon the case at his ease.

--If it be but right done,--said my father, turning to the Section--de sede vel subjecto circumcisionis,--for
he had brought up Spenser de Legibus Hebraeorum Ritualibus--and Maimonides, in order to confront
and examine us altogether.--

--If it be but right done, quoth he:--only tell us, cried my mother, interrupting him, what
herbs?--For that, replied my father, you must send for Dr. Slop.

My mother went down, and my father went on, reading the section as follows,

...--Very well,--said my father,...--nay, if it has that convenience--and so without stopping
a moment to settle it first in his mind, whether the Jews had it from the Egyptians, or the
Egyptians from the Jews,--he rose up, and rubbing his forehead two or three times across with
the palm of his hand, in the manner we rub out the footsteps of care, when evil has trod lighter
upon us than we foreboded,--he shut the book, and walked down stairs.--Nay, said he, mentioning
the name of a different great nation upon every step as he set his foot upon it--if the Egyptians,--the
Syrians,--the Phoenicians,--the Arabians,--the Cappadocians,--if the Colchi, and Troglodytes
did it--if Solon and Pythagoras submitted,--what is Tristram?--Who am I, that I should fret
or fume one moment about the matter?

Chapter 3.XXVIII.

Dear Yorick, said my father smiling (for Yorick had broke his rank with my uncle Toby in coming
through the narrow entry, and so had stept first into the parlour)--this Tristram of ours,
I find, comes very hardly by all his religious rites.--Never was the son of Jew, Christian,
Turk, or Infidel initiated into them in so oblique and slovenly a manner.--But he is no worse,
I trust, said Yorick.--There has been certainly, continued my father, the deuce and all to
do in some part or other of the ecliptic, when this offspring of mine was formed.--That, you
are a better judge of than I, replied Yorick.--Astrologers, quoth my father, know better than
us both:--the trine and sextil aspects have jumped awry,--or the opposite of their ascendents
have not hit it, as they should,--or the lords of the genitures (as they call them) have been
at bo-peep,--or something has been wrong above, or below with us.

'Tis possible, answered Yorick.--But is the child, cried my uncle Toby, the worse?--The Troglodytes
say not, replied my father. And your theologists, Yorick, tell us--Theologically? said Yorick,--or
speaking after the manner of apothecaries? (footnote in Greek Philo.)--statesmen? (footnote
in Greek)--or washer-women? (footnote in Greek Bochart.)

--I'm not sure, replied my father,--but they tell us, brother Toby, he's the better for it.--Provided,
said Yorick, you travel him into Egypt.--Of that, answered my father, he will have the advantage,
when he sees the Pyramids.--

Now every word of this, quoth my uncle Toby, is Arabic to me.--I wish, said Yorick, 'twas so,
to half the world.

--Ilus, (footnote in Greek Sanchuniatho.) continued my father, circumcised his whole army one
morning.--Not without a court martial? cried my uncle Toby.--Though the learned, continued
he, taking no notice of my uncle Toby's remark, but turning to Yorick,--are greatly divided
still who Ilus was;--some say Saturn;--some the Supreme Being;--others, no more than a brigadier
general under Pharaoh-neco.--Let him be who he will, said my uncle Toby, I know not by what
article of war he could justify it.

The controvertists, answered my father, assign two-and-twenty different reasons for it:--others,
indeed, who have drawn their pens on the opposite side of the question, have shewn the world
the futility of the greatest part of them.--But then again, our best polemic divines--I wish
there was not a polemic divine, said Yorick, in the kingdom;--one ounce of practical divinity--is
worth a painted ship-load of all their reverences have imported these fifty years.--Pray, Mr.
Yorick, quoth my uncle Toby,--do tell me what a polemic divine is?--The best description, captain
Shandy, I have ever read, is of a couple of 'em, replied Yorick, in the account of the battle
fought single hands betwixt Gymnast and captain Tripet; which I have in my pocket.--I beg I
may hear it, quoth my uncle Toby earnestly.--You shall, said Yorick.--And as the corporal is
waiting for me at the door,--and I know the description of a battle will do the poor fellow
more good than his supper,--I beg, brother, you'll give him leave to come in.--With all my
soul, said my father.--Trim came in, erect and happy as an emperor; and having shut the door,
Yorick took a book from his right-hand coat-pocket, and read, or pretended to read, as follows.

Chapter 3.XXIX.

--'which words being heard by all the soldiers which were there, divers of them being inwardly
terrified, did shrink back and make room for the assailant: all this did Gymnast very well
remark and consider; and therefore, making as if he would have alighted from off his horse,
as he was poising himself on the mounting side, he most nimbly (with his short sword by this
thigh) shifting his feet in the stirrup, and performing the stirrup-leather feat, whereby,
after the inclining of his body downwards, he forthwith launched himself aloft into the air,
and placed both his feet together upon the saddle, standing upright, with his back turned towards
his horse's head,--Now, (said he) my case goes forward. Then suddenly in the same posture wherein
he was, he fetched a gambol upon one foot, and turning to the left-hand, failed not to carry
his body perfectly round, just into his former position, without missing one jot.--Ha! said
Tripet, I will not do that at this time,--and not without cause. Well, said Gymnast, I have
failed,--I will undo this leap; then with a marvellous strength and agility, turning towards
the right-hand, he fetched another striking gambol as before; which done, he set his right
hand thumb upon the bow of the saddle, raised himself up, and sprung into the air, poising
and upholding his whole weight upon the muscle and nerve of the said thumb, and so turned and
whirled himself about three times: at the fourth, reversing his body, and overturning it upside
down, and foreside back, without touching any thing, he brought himself betwixt the horse's
two ears, and then giving himself a jerking swing, he seated himself upon the crupper--'

(This can't be fighting, said my uncle Toby.--The corporal shook his head at it.--Have patience,
said Yorick.)

'Then (Tripet) pass'd his right leg over his saddle, and placed himself en croup.--But, said
he, 'twere better for me to get into the saddle; then putting the thumbs of both hands upon
the crupper before him, and there-upon leaning himself, as upon the only supporters of his
body, he incontinently turned heels over head in the air, and strait found himself betwixt
the bow of the saddle in a tolerable seat; then springing into the air with a summerset, he
turned him about like a wind-mill, and made above a hundred frisks, turns, and demi-pommadas.'--Good
God! cried Trim, losing all patience,--one home thrust of a bayonet is worth it all.--I think
so too, replied Yorick.--

I am of a contrary opinion, quoth my father.

Chapter 3.XXX.

--No,--I think I have advanced nothing, replied my father, making answer to a question which
Yorick had taken the liberty to put to him,--I have advanced nothing in the Tristra-paedia,
but what is as clear as any one proposition in Euclid.--Reach me, Trim, that book from off
the scrutoir:--it has oft-times been in my mind, continued my father, to have read it over
both to you, Yorick, and to my brother Toby, and I think it a little unfriendly in myself,
in not having done it long ago:--shall we have a short chapter or two now,--and a chapter or
two hereafter, as occasions serve; and so on, till we get through the whole? My uncle Toby
and Yorick made the obeisance which was proper; and the corporal, though he was not included
in the compliment, laid his hand upon his breast, and made his bow at the same time.--The company
smiled. Trim, quoth my father, has paid the full price for staying out the entertainment.--He
did not seem to relish the play, replied Yorick.--'Twas a Tom-fool-battle, an' please your
reverence, of captain Tripet's and that other officer, making so many summersets, as they advanced;--the
French come on capering now and then in that way,--but not quite so much.

My uncle Toby never felt the consciousness of his existence with more complacency than what
the corporal's, and his own reflections, made him do at that moment;--he lighted his pipe,--Yorick
drew his chair closer to the table,--Trim snuff'd the candle,--my father stirr'd up the fire,--took
up the book,--cough'd twice, and begun.

Chapter 3.XXXI.

The first thirty pages, said my father, turning over the leaves,--are a little dry; and as
they are not closely connected with the subject,--for the present we'll pass them by: 'tis
a prefatory introduction, continued my father, or an introductory preface (for I am not determined
which name to give it) upon political or civil government; the foundation of which being laid
in the first conjunction betwixt male and female, for procreation of the species--I was insensibly
led into it.--'Twas natural, said Yorick.

The original of society, continued my father, I'm satisfied is, what Politian tells us, i.
e. merely conjugal; and nothing more than the getting together of one man and one woman;--to
which, (according to Hesiod) the philosopher adds a servant:--but supposing in the first beginning
there were no men servants born--he lays the foundation of it, in a man,--a woman--and a bull.--I
believe 'tis an ox, quoth Yorick, quoting the passage (Greek)--A bull must have given more
trouble than his head was worth.--But there is a better reason still, said my father (dipping
his pen into his ink); for the ox being the most patient of animals, and the most useful withal
in tilling the ground for their nourishment,--was the properest instrument, and emblem too,
for the new joined couple, that the creation could have associated with them.--And there is
a stronger reason, added my uncle Toby, than them all for the ox.--My father had not power
to take his pen out of his ink-horn, till he had heard my uncle Toby's reason.--For when the
ground was tilled, said my uncle Toby, and made worth inclosing, then they began to secure
it by walls and ditches, which was the origin of fortification.--True, true, dear Toby, cried
my father, striking out the bull, and putting the ox in his place.

My father gave Trim a nod, to snuff the candle, and resumed his discourse.

--I enter upon this speculation, said my father carelessly, and half shutting the book, as
he went on, merely to shew the foundation of the natural relation between a father and his
child; the right and jurisdiction over whom he acquires these several ways--

1st, by marriage.

2d, by adoption.

3d, by legitimation.

And 4th, by procreation; all which I consider in their order.

I lay a slight stress upon one of them, replied Yorick--the act, especially where it ends there,
in my opinion lays as little obligation upon the child, as it conveys power to the father.--You
are wrong,--said my father argutely, and for this plain reason....--I own, added my father,
that the offspring, upon this account, is not so under the power and jurisdiction of the mother.--But
the reason, replied Yorick, equally holds good for her.--She is under authority herself, said
my father:--and besides, continued my father, nodding his head, and laying his finger upon
the side of his nose, as he assigned his reason,--she is not the principal agent, Yorick.--In
what, quoth my uncle Toby? stopping his pipe.--Though by all means, added my father (not attending
to my uncle Toby), 'The son ought to pay her respect,' as you may read, Yorick, at large in
the first book of the Institutes of Justinian, at the eleventh title and the tenth section.--I
can read it as well, replied Yorick, in the Catechism.

Chapter 3.XXXII.

Trim can repeat every word of it by heart, quoth my uncle Toby.--Pugh! said my father, not
caring to be interrupted with Trim's saying his Catechism. He can, upon my honour, replied
my uncle Toby.--Ask him, Mr. Yorick, any question you please.--

--The fifth Commandment, Trim,--said Yorick, speaking mildly, and with a gentle nod, as to
a modest Catechumen. The corporal stood silent.--You don't ask him right, said my uncle Toby,
raising his voice, and giving it rapidly like the word of command:--The fifth--cried my uncle
Toby.--I must begin with the first, an' please your honour, said the corporal.--

--Yorick could not forbear smiling.--Your reverence does not consider, said the corporal, shouldering
his stick like a musket, and marching into the middle of the room, to illustrate his position,--that
'tis exactly the same thing, as doing one's exercise in the field.--

'Join your right-hand to your firelock,' cried the corporal, giving the word of command, and
performing the motion.--

'Poise your firelock,' cried the corporal, doing the duty still both of adjutant and private man.

'Rest your firelock;'--one motion, an' please your reverence, you see leads into another.--If
his honour will begin but with the first--

The First--cried my uncle Toby, setting his hand upon his side--....

The Second--cried my uncle Toby, waving his tobacco-pipe, as he would have done his sword at
the head of a regiment.--The corporal went through his manual with exactness; and having honoured
his father and mother, made a low bow, and fell back to the side of the room.

Every thing in this world, said my father, is big with jest, and has wit in it, and instruction
too,--if we can but find it out.

--Here is the scaffold work of Instruction, its true point of folly, without the Building behind
it.

--Here is the glass for pedagogues, preceptors, tutors, governors, gerund-grinders, and bear-leaders
to view themselves in, in their true dimensions.--

Oh! there is a husk and shell, Yorick, which grows up with learning, which their unskilfulness
knows not how to fling away!

--Sciences May Be Learned by Rote But Wisdom Not.

Yorick thought my father inspired.--I will enter into obligations this moment, said my father,
to lay out all my aunt Dinah's legacy in charitable uses (of which, by the bye, my father had
no high opinion), if the corporal has any one determinate idea annexed to any one word he has
repeated.--Prithee, Trim, quoth my father, turning round to him,--What dost thou mean, by 'honouring
thy father and mother?'

Allowing them, an' please your honour, three halfpence a day out of my pay, when they grow
old.--And didst thou do that, Trim? said Yorick.--He did indeed, replied my uncle Toby.--Then,
Trim, said Yorick, springing out of his chair, and taking the corporal by the hand, thou art
the best commentator upon that part of the Decalogue; and I honour thee more for it, corporal
Trim, than if thou hadst had a hand in the Talmud itself.

Chapter 3.XXXIII.

O blessed health! cried my father, making an exclamation, as he turned over the leaves to the
next chapter, thou art before all gold and treasure; 'tis thou who enlargest the soul,--and
openest all its powers to receive instruction and to relish virtue.--He that has thee, has
little more to wish for;--and he that is so wretched as to want thee,--wants every thing with thee.

I have concentrated all that can be said upon this important head, said my father, into a very
little room, therefore we'll read the chapter quite through.

My father read as follows:

'The whole secret of health depending upon the due contention for mastery betwixt the radical
heat and the radical moisture'--You have proved that matter of fact, I suppose, above, said
Yorick. Sufficiently, replied my father.

In saying this, my father shut the book,--not as if he resolved to read no more of it, for
he kept his fore-finger in the chapter:--nor pettishly,--for he shut the book slowly; his thumb
resting, when he had done it, upon the upper-side of the cover, as his three fingers supported
the lower side of it, without the least compressive violence.--

I have demonstrated the truth of that point, quoth my father, nodding to Yorick, most sufficiently
in the preceding chapter.

With two strokes, the one at Hippocrates, the other at Lord Verulam, did my father achieve it.

The stroke at the prince of physicians, with which he began, was no more than a short insult
upon his sorrowful complaint of the Ars longa,--and Vita brevis.--Life short, cried my father,--and
the art of healing tedious! And who are we to thank for both the one and the other, but the
ignorance of quacks themselves,--and the stage-loads of chymical nostrums, and peripatetic
lumber, with which, in all ages, they have first flatter'd the world, and at last deceived it?

--O my lord Verulam! cried my father, turning from Hippocrates, and making his second stroke
at him, as the principal of nostrum-mongers, and the fittest to be made an example of to the
rest,--What shall I say to thee, my great lord Verulam? What shall I say to thy internal spirit,--thy
opium, thy salt-petre,--thy greasy unctions,--thy daily purges,--thy nightly clysters, and
succedaneums?

--My father was never at a loss what to say to any man, upon any subject; and had the least
occasion for the exordium of any man breathing: how he dealt with his lordship's opinion,--you
shall see;--but when--I know not:--we must first see what his lordship's opinion was.

Chapter 3.XXXV.

'The two great causes, which conspire with each other to shorten life, says lord Verulam, are
first--

'The internal spirit, which like a gentle flame wastes the body down to death:--And secondly,
the external air, that parches the body up to ashes:--which two enemies attacking us on both
sides of our bodies together, at length destroy our organs, and render them unfit to carry
on the functions of life.'

This being the state of the case, the road to longevity was plain; nothing more being required,
says his lordship, but to repair the waste committed by the internal spirit, by making the
substance of it more thick and dense, by a regular course of opiates on one side, and by refrigerating
the heat of it on the other, by three grains and a half of salt-petre every morning before
you got up.--

Still this frame of ours was left exposed to the inimical assaults of the air without;--but
this was fenced off again by a course of greasy unctions, which so fully saturated the pores
of the skin, that no spicula could enter;--nor could any one get out.--This put a stop to all
perspiration, sensible and insensible, which being the cause of so many scurvy distempers--a
course of clysters was requisite to carry off redundant humours,--and render the system complete.

What my father had to say to my lord of Verulam's opiates, his salt-petre, and greasy unctions
and clysters, you shall read,--but not to-day--or to-morrow: time presses upon me,--my reader
is impatient--I must get forwards--You shall read the chapter at your leisure (if you chuse
it), as soon as ever the Tristra-paedia is published.--

Sufficeth it, at present to say, my father levelled the hypothesis with the ground, and in
doing that, the learned know, he built up and established his own.--

Chapter 3.XXXVI.

The whole secret of health, said my father, beginning the sentence again, depending evidently
upon the due contention betwixt the radical heat and radical moisture within us;--the least
imaginable skill had been sufficient to have maintained it, had not the school-men confounded
the task, merely (as Van Helmont, the famous chymist, has proved) by all along mistaking the
radical moisture for the tallow and fat of animal bodies.

Now the radical moisture is not the tallow or fat of animals, but an oily and balsamous substance;
for the fat and tallow, as also the phlegm or watery parts, are cold; whereas the oily and
balsamous parts are of a lively heat and spirit, which accounts for the observation of Aristotle,
'Quod omne animal post coitum est triste.'

Now it is certain, that the radical heat lives in the radical moisture, but whether vice versa,
is a doubt: however, when the one decays, the other decays also; and then is produced, either
an unnatural heat, which causes an unnatural dryness--or an unnatural moisture, which causes
dropsies.--So that if a child, as he grows up, can but be taught to avoid running into fire
or water, as either of 'em threaten his destruction,--'twill be all that is needful to be done
upon that head.--

Chapter 3.XXXVII.

The description of the siege of Jericho itself, could not have engaged the attention of my
uncle Toby more powerfully than the last chapter;--his eyes were fixed upon my father throughout
it;--he never mentioned radical heat and radical moisture, but my uncle Toby took his pipe
out of his mouth, and shook his head; and as soon as the chapter was finished, he beckoned
to the corporal to come close to his chair, to ask him the following question,--aside.--....
It was at the siege of Limerick, an' please your honour, replied the corporal, making a bow.

The poor fellow and I, quoth my uncle Toby, addressing himself to my father, were scarce able
to crawl out of our tents, at the time the siege of Limerick was raised, upon the very account
you mention.--Now what can have got into that precious noddle of thine, my dear brother Toby?
cried my father, mentally.--By Heaven! continued he, communing still with himself, it would
puzzle an Oedipus to bring it in point.--

I believe, an' please your honour, quoth the corporal, that if it had not been for the quantity
of brandy we set fire to every night, and the claret and cinnamon with which I plyed your honour
off;--And the geneva, Trim, added my uncle Toby, which did us more good than all--I verily
believe, continued the corporal, we had both, an' please your honour, left our lives in the
trenches, and been buried in them too.--The noblest grave, corporal! cried my uncle Toby, his
eyes sparkling as he spoke, that a soldier could wish to lie down in.--But a pitiful death
for him! an' please your honour, replied the corporal.

All this was as much Arabick to my father, as the rites of the Colchi and Troglodites had been
before to my uncle Toby; my father could not determine whether he was to frown or to smile.

My uncle Toby, turning to Yorick, resumed the case at Limerick, more intelligibly than he had
begun it,--and so settled the point for my father at once.

Chapter 3.XXXVIII.

It was undoubtedly, said my uncle Toby, a great happiness for myself and the corporal, that
we had all along a burning fever, attended with a most raging thirst, during the whole five-and-twenty
days the flux was upon us in the camp; otherwise what my brother calls the radical moisture,
must, as I conceive it, inevitably have got the better.--My father drew in his lungs top-full
of air, and looking up, blew it forth again, as slowly as he possibly could.--

--It was Heaven's mercy to us, continued my uncle Toby, which put it into the corporal's head
to maintain that due contention betwixt the radical heat and the radical moisture, by reinforceing
the fever, as he did all along, with hot wine and spices; whereby the corporal kept up (as
it were) a continual firing, so that the radical heat stood its ground from the beginning to
the end, and was a fair match for the moisture, terrible as it was.--Upon my honour, added
my uncle Toby, you might have heard the contention within our bodies, brother Shandy, twenty
toises.--If there was no firing, said Yorick.

Well--said my father, with a full aspiration, and pausing a while after the word--Was I a judge,
and the laws of the country which made me one permitted it, I would condemn some of the worst
malefactors, provided they had had their clergy...--Yorick, foreseeing the sentence was likely
to end with no sort of mercy, laid his hand upon my father's breast, and begged he would respite
it for a few minutes, till he asked the corporal a question.--Prithee, Trim, said Yorick, without
staying for my father's leave,--tell us honestly--what is thy opinion concerning this self-same
radical heat and radical moisture?

With humble submission to his honour's better judgment, quoth the corporal, making a bow to
my uncle Toby--Speak thy opinion freely, corporal, said my uncle Toby.--The poor fellow is
my servant,--not my slave,--added my uncle Toby, turning to my father.--

The corporal put his hat under his left arm, and with his stick hanging upon the wrist of it,
by a black thong split into a tassel about the knot, he marched up to the ground where he had
performed his catechism; then touching his under-jaw with the thumb and fingers of his right
hand before he opened his mouth,--he delivered his notion thus.

Chapter 3.XXXIX.

Just as the corporal was humming, to begin--in waddled Dr. Slop.--'Tis not two-pence matter--the
corporal shall go on in the next chapter, let who will come in.--

Well, my good doctor, cried my father sportively, for the transitions of his passions were
unaccountably sudden,--and what has this whelp of mine to say to the matter?

Had my father been asking after the amputation of the tail of a puppy-dog--he could not have
done it in a more careless air: the system which Dr. Slop had laid down, to treat the accident
by, no way allowed of such a mode of enquiry.--He sat down.

Pray, Sir, quoth my uncle Toby, in a manner which could not go unanswered,--in what condition
is the boy?--'Twill end in a phimosis, replied Dr. Slop.

I am no wiser than I was, quoth my uncle Toby--returning his pipe into his mouth.--Then let
the corporal go on, said my father, with his medical lecture.--The corporal made a bow to his
old friend, Dr. Slop, and then delivered his opinion concerning radical heat and radical moisture,
in the following words.

Chapter 3.XL.

The city of Limerick, the siege of which was begun under his majesty king William himself,
the year after I went into the army--lies, an' please your honours, in the middle of a devilish
wet, swampy country.--'Tis quite surrounded, said my uncle Toby, with the Shannon, and is,
by its situation, one of the strongest fortified places in Ireland.--

I think this is a new fashion, quoth Dr. Slop, of beginning a medical lecture.--'Tis all true,
answered Trim.--Then I wish the faculty would follow the cut of it, said Yorick.--'Tis all
cut through, an' please your reverence, said the corporal, with drains and bogs; and besides,
there was such a quantity of rain fell during the siege, the whole country was like a puddle,--'twas
that, and nothing else, which brought on the flux, and which had like to have killed both his
honour and myself; now there was no such thing, after the first ten days, continued the corporal,
for a soldier to lie dry in his tent, without cutting a ditch round it, to draw off the water;--nor
was that enough, for those who could afford it, as his honour could, without setting fire every
night to a pewter dish full of brandy, which took off the damp of the air, and made the inside
of the tent as warm as a stove.--

And what conclusion dost thou draw, corporal Trim, cried my father, from all these premises?

I infer, an' please your worship, replied Trim, that the radical moisture is nothing in the
world but ditch-water--and that the radical heat, of those who can go to the expence of it,
is burnt brandy,--the radical heat and moisture of a private man, an' please your honour, is
nothing but ditch-water--and a dram of geneva--and give us but enough of it, with a pipe of
tobacco, to give us spirits, and drive away the vapours--we know not what it is to fear death.

I am at a loss, Captain Shandy, quoth Doctor Slop, to determine in which branch of learning
your servant shines most, whether in physiology or divinity.--Slop had not forgot Trim's comment
upon the sermon.--

It is but an hour ago, replied Yorick, since the corporal was examined in the latter, and passed
muster with great honour.--

The radical heat and moisture, quoth Doctor Slop, turning to my father, you must know, is the
basis and foundation of our being--as the root of a tree is the source and principle of its
vegetation.--It is inherent in the seeds of all animals, and may be preserved sundry ways,
but principally in my opinion by consubstantials, impriments, and occludents.--Now this poor
fellow, continued Dr. Slop, pointing to the corporal, has had the misfortune to have heard
some superficial empiric discourse upon this nice point.--That he has,--said my father.--Very
likely, said my uncle.--I'm sure of it--quoth Yorick.--

Chapter 3.XLI.

Doctor Slop being called out to look at a cataplasm he had ordered, it gave my father an opportunity
of going on with another chapter in the Tristra-paedia.--Come! cheer up, my lads; I'll shew
you land--for when we have tugged through that chapter, the book shall not be opened again
this twelve-month.--Huzza--!

Chapter 3.XLII.

--Five years with a bib under his chin;

Four years in travelling from Christ-cross-row to Malachi;

A year and a half in learning to write his own name;

Seven long years and more (Greek)-ing it, at Greek and Latin;

Four years at his probations and his negations--the fine statue still lying in the middle of
the marble block,--and nothing done, but his tools sharpened to hew it out!--'Tis a piteous
delay!--Was not the great Julius Scaliger within an ace of never getting his tools sharpened
at all?--Forty-four years old was he before he could manage his Greek;--and Peter Damianus,
lord bishop of Ostia, as all the world knows, could not so much as read, when he was of man's
estate.--And Baldus himself, as eminent as he turned out after, entered upon the law so late
in life, that every body imagined he intended to be an advocate in the other world: no wonder,
when Eudamidas, the son of Archidamas, heard Xenocrates at seventy-five disputing about wisdom,
that he asked gravely,--If the old man be yet disputing and enquiring concerning wisdom,--what
time will he have to make use of it?

Yorick listened to my father with great attention; there was a seasoning of wisdom unaccountably
mixed up with his strangest whims, and he had sometimes such illuminations in the darkest of
his eclipses, as almost atoned for them:--be wary, Sir, when you imitate him.

I am convinced, Yorick, continued my father, half reading and half discoursing, that there
is a North-west passage to the intellectual world; and that the soul of man has shorter ways
of going to work, in furnishing itself with knowledge and instruction, than we generally take
with it.--But, alack! all fields have not a river or a spring running besides them;--every
child, Yorick, has not a parent to point it out.

--The whole entirely depends, added my father, in a low voice, upon the auxiliary verbs, Mr.
Yorick.

Had Yorick trod upon Virgil's snake, he could not have looked more surprised.--I am surprised
too, cried my father, observing it,--and I reckon it as one of the greatest calamities which
ever befel the republic of letters, That those who have been entrusted with the education of
our children, and whose business it was to open their minds, and stock them early with ideas,
in order to set the imagination loose upon them, have made so little use of the auxiliary verbs
in doing it, as they have done--So that, except Raymond Lullius, and the elder Pelegrini, the
last of which arrived to such perfection in the use of 'em, with his topics, that, in a few
lessons, he could teach a young gentleman to discourse with plausibility upon any subject,
pro and con, and to say and write all that could be spoken or written concerning it, without
blotting a word, to the admiration of all who beheld him.--I should be glad, said Yorick, interrupting
my father, to be made to comprehend this matter. You shall, said my father.

The highest stretch of improvement a single word is capable of, is a high metaphor,--for which,
in my opinion, the idea is generally the worse, and not the better;--but be that as it may,--when
the mind has done that with it--there is an end,--the mind and the idea are at rest,--until
a second idea enters;--and so on.

Now the use of the Auxiliaries is, at once to set the soul a-going by herself upon the materials
as they are brought her; and by the versability of this great engine, round which they are
twisted, to open new tracts of enquiry, and make every idea engender millions.

You excite my curiosity greatly, said Yorick.

For my own part, quoth my uncle Toby, I have given it up.--The Danes, an' please your honour,
quoth the corporal, who were on the left at the siege of Limerick, were all auxiliaries.--And
very good ones, said my uncle Toby.--But the auxiliaries, Trim, my brother is talking about,--I
conceive to be different things.--

--You do? said my father, rising up.

Chapter 3.XLIII.

My father took a single turn across the room, then sat down, and finished the chapter.

The verbs auxiliary we are concerned in here, continued my father, are, am; was; have; had;
do; did; make; made; suffer; shall; should; will; would; can; could; owe; ought; used; or is
wont.--And these varied with tenses, present, past, future, and conjugated with the verb see,--or
with these questions added to them;--Is it? Was it? Will it be? Would it be? May it be? Might
it be? And these again put negatively, Is it not? Was it not? Ought it not?--Or affirmatively,--It
is; It was; It ought to be. Or chronologically,--Has it been always? Lately? How long ago?--Or
hypothetically,--If it was? If it was not? What would follow?--If the French should beat the
English? If the Sun go out of the Zodiac?

Now, by the right use and application of these, continued my father, in which a child's memory
should be exercised, there is no one idea can enter his brain, how barren soever, but a magazine
of conceptions and conclusions may be drawn forth from it.--Didst thou ever see a white bear?
cried my father, turning his head round to Trim, who stood at the back of his chair:--No, an'
please your honour, replied the corporal.--But thou couldst discourse about one, Trim, said
my father, in case of need?--How is it possible, brother, quoth my uncle Toby, if the corporal
never saw one?--'Tis the fact I want, replied my father,--and the possibility of it is as follows.

A White Bear! Very well. Have I ever seen one? Might I ever have seen one? Am I ever to see
one? Ought I ever to have seen one? Or can I ever see one?

Would I had seen a white bear! (for how can I imagine it?)

If I should see a white bear, what should I say? If I should never see a white bear, what then?

If I never have, can, must, or shall see a white bear alive; have I ever seen the skin of one?
Did I ever see one painted?--described? Have I never dreamed of one?

Did my father, mother, uncle, aunt, brothers or sisters, ever see a white bear? What would
they give? How would they behave? How would the white bear have behaved? Is he wild? Tame?
Terrible? Rough? Smooth?

--Is the white bear worth seeing?--

--Is there no sin in it?--

Is it better than a Black One?

Chapter 3.XLIV.

--We'll not stop two moments, my dear Sir,--only, as we have got through these five volumes
(In the first edition, the sixth volume began with this chapter.), (do, Sir, sit down upon
a set--they are better than nothing) let us just look back upon the country we have pass'd
through.--

--What a wilderness has it been! and what a mercy that we have not both of us been lost, or
devoured by wild beasts in it!

Did you think the world itself, Sir, had contained such a number of Jack Asses?--How they view'd
and review'd us as we passed over the rivulet at the bottom of that little valley!--and when
we climbed over that hill, and were just getting out of sight--good God! what a braying did
they all set up together!

--Prithee, shepherd! who keeps all those Jack Asses?....

--Heaven be their comforter--What! are they never curried?--Are they never taken in in winter?--Bray
bray--bray. Bray on,--the world is deeply your debtor;--louder still--that's nothing:--in good
sooth, you are ill-used:--Was I a Jack Asse, I solemnly declare, I would bray in G-sol-re-ut
from morning, even unto night.

Chapter 3.XLV.

When my father had danced his white bear backwards and forwards through half a dozen pages,
he closed the book for good an' all,--and in a kind of triumph redelivered it into Trim's hand,
with a nod to lay it upon the 'scrutoire, where he found it.--Tristram, said he, shall be made
to conjugate every word in the dictionary, backwards and forwards the same way;--every word,
Yorick, by this means, you see, is converted into a thesis or an hypothesis;--every thesis
and hypothesis have an off-spring of propositions;--and each proposition has its own consequences
and conclusions; every one of which leads the mind on again, into fresh tracks of enquiries
and doubtings.--The force of this engine, added my father, is incredible in opening a child's
head.--'Tis enough, brother Shandy, cried my uncle Toby, to burst it into a thousand splinters.--

I presume, said Yorick, smiling,--it must be owing to this,--(for let logicians say what they
will, it is not to be accounted for sufficiently from the bare use of the ten predicaments)--That
the famous Vincent Quirino, amongst the many other astonishing feats of his childhood, of which
the Cardinal Bembo has given the world so exact a story,--should be able to paste up in the
public schools at Rome, so early as in the eighth year of his age, no less than four thousand
five hundred and fifty different theses, upon the most abstruse points of the most abstruse
theology;--and to defend and maintain them in such sort, as to cramp and dumbfound his opponents.--What
is that, cried my father, to what is told us of Alphonsus Tostatus, who, almost in his nurse's
arms, learned all the sciences and liberal arts without being taught any one of them?--What
shall we say of the great Piereskius?--That's the very man, cried my uncle Toby, I once told
you of, brother Shandy, who walked a matter of five hundred miles, reckoning from Paris to
Shevling, and from Shevling back again, merely to see Stevinus's flying chariot.--He was a
very great man! added my uncle Toby (meaning Stevinus)--He was so, brother Toby, said my father
(meaning Piereskius)--and had multiplied his ideas so fast, and increased his knowledge to
such a prodigious stock, that, if we may give credit to an anecdote concerning him, which we
cannot withhold here, without shaking the authority of all anecdotes whatever--at seven years
of age, his father committed entirely to his care the education of his younger brother, a boy
of five years old,--with the sole management of all his concerns.--Was the father as wise as
the son? quoth my uncle Toby:--I should think not, said Yorick:--But what are these, continued
my father--(breaking out in a kind of enthusiasm)--what are these, to those prodigies of childhood
in Grotius, Scioppius, Heinsius, Politian, Pascal, Joseph Scaliger, Ferdinand de Cordoue, and
others--some of which left off their substantial forms at nine years old, or sooner, and went
on reasoning without them;--others went through their classics at seven;--wrote tragedies at
eight;--Ferdinand de Cordoue was so wise at nine,--'twas thought the Devil was in him;--and
at Venice gave such proofs of his knowledge and goodness, that the monks imagined he was Antichrist,
or nothing.--Others were masters of fourteen languages at ten,--finished the course of their
rhetoric, poetry, logic, and ethics, at eleven,--put forth their commentaries upon Servius
and Martianus Capella at twelve,--and at thirteen received their degrees in philosophy, laws,
and divinity:--but you forget the great Lipsius, quoth Yorick, who composed a work (Nous aurions
quelque interet, says Baillet, de montrer qu'il n'a rien de ridicule s'il etoit veritable,
au moins dans le sens enigmatique que Nicius Erythraeus a ta he de lui donner. Cet auteur dit
que pour comprendre comme Lipse, il a pu composer un ouvrage le premier jour de sa vie, il
faut s'imaginer, que ce premier jour n'est pas celui de sa naissance charnelle, mais celui
au quel il a commence d'user de la raison; il veut que c'ait ete a l'age de neuf ans; et il
nous veut persuader que ce fut en cet age, que Lipse fit un poeme.--Le tour est ingenieux,
&c. &c.) the day he was born:--They should have wiped it up, said my uncle Toby, and said no
more about it.

Chapter 3.XLVI.

When the cataplasm was ready, a scruple of decorum had unseasonably rose up in Susannah's conscience,
about holding the candle, whilst Slop tied it on; Slop had not treated Susannah's distemper
with anodynes,--and so a quarrel had ensued betwixt them.

--Oh! oh!--said Slop, casting a glance of undue freedom in Susannah's face, as she declined
the office;--then, I think I know you, madam--You know me, Sir! cried Susannah fastidiously,
and with a toss of her head, levelled evidently, not at his profession, but at the doctor himself,--you
know me! cried Susannah again.--Doctor Slop clapped his finger and his thumb instantly upon
his nostrils;--Susannah's spleen was ready to burst at it;--'Tis false, said Susannah.--Come,
come, Mrs. Modesty, said Slop, not a little elated with the success of his last thrust,--If
you won't hold the candle, and look--you may hold it and shut your eyes:--That's one of your
popish shifts, cried Susannah:--'Tis better, said Slop, with a nod, than no shift at all, young
woman;--I defy you, Sir, cried Susannah, pulling her shift sleeve below her elbow.

It was almost impossible for two persons to assist each other in a surgical case with a more
splenetic cordiality.

Slop snatched up the cataplasm--Susannah snatched up the candle;--A little this way, said Slop;
Susannah looking one way, and rowing another, instantly set fire to Slop's wig, which being
somewhat bushy and unctuous withal, was burnt out before it was well kindled.--You impudent
whore! cried Slop,--(for what is passion, but a wild beast?)--you impudent whore, cried Slop,
getting upright, with the cataplasm in his hand;--I never was the destruction of any body's
nose, said Susannah,--which is more than you can say:--Is it? cried Slop, throwing the cataplasm
in her face;--Yes, it is, cried Susannah, returning the compliment with what was left in the pan.

Chapter 3.XLVII.

Doctor Slop and Susannah filed cross-bills against each other in the parlour; which done, as
the cataplasm had failed, they retired into the kitchen to prepare a fomentation for me;--and
whilst that was doing, my father determined the point as you will read.

Chapter 3.XLVIII.

You see 'tis high time, said my father, addressing himself equally to my uncle Toby and Yorick,
to take this young creature out of these women's hands, and put him into those of a private
governor. Marcus Antoninus provided fourteen governors all at once to superintend his son Commodus's
education,--and in six weeks he cashiered five of them;--I know very well, continued my father,
that Commodus's mother was in love with a gladiator at the time of her conception, which accounts
for a great many of Commodus's cruelties when he became emperor;--but still I am of opinion,
that those five whom Antoninus dismissed, did Commodus's temper, in that short time, more hurt
than the other nine were able to rectify all their lives long.

Now as I consider the person who is to be about my son, as the mirror in which he is to view
himself from morning to night, by which he is to adjust his looks, his carriage, and perhaps
the inmost sentiments of his heart;--I would have one, Yorick, if possible, polished at all
points, fit for my child to look into.--This is very good sense, quoth my uncle Toby to himself.

--There is, continued my father, a certain mien and motion of the body and all its parts, both
in acting and speaking, which argues a man well within; and I am not at all surprised that
Gregory of Nazianzum, upon observing the hasty and untoward gestures of Julian, should foretel
he would one day become an apostate;--or that St. Ambrose should turn his Amanuensis out of
doors, because of an indecent motion of his head, which went backwards and forwards like a
flail;--or that Democritus should conceive Protagoras to be a scholar, from seeing him bind
up a faggot, and thrusting, as he did it, the small twigs inwards.--There are a thousand unnoticed
openings, continued my father, which let a penetrating eye at once into a man's soul; and I
maintain it, added he, that a man of sense does not lay down his hat in coming into a room,--or
take it up in going out of it, but something escapes, which discovers him.

It is for these reasons, continued my father, that the governor I make choice of shall neither
(Vid. Pellegrina.) lisp, or squint, or wink, or talk loud, or look fierce, or foolish;--or
bite his lips, or grind his teeth, or speak through his nose, or pick it, or blow it with his
fingers.--He shall neither walk fast,--or slow, or fold his arms,--for that is laziness;--or
hang them down,--for that is folly; or hide them in his pocket, for that is nonsense.--

He shall neither strike, or pinch, or tickle--or bite, or cut his nails, or hawk, or spit,
or snift, or drum with his feet or fingers in company;--nor (according to Erasmus) shall he
speak to any one in making water,--nor shall he point to carrion or excrement.--Now this is
all nonsense again, quoth my uncle Toby to himself.--

I will have him, continued my father, cheerful, facete, jovial; at the same time, prudent,
attentive to business, vigilant, acute, argute, inventive, quick in resolving doubts and speculative
questions;--he shall be wise, and judicious, and learned:--And why not humble, and moderate,
and gentle-tempered, and good? said Yorick:--And why not, cried my uncle Toby, free, and generous,
and bountiful, and brave?--He shall, my dear Toby, replied my father, getting up and shaking
him by his hand.--Then, brother Shandy, answered my uncle Toby, raising himself off the chair,
and laying down his pipe to take hold of my father's other hand,--I humbly beg I may recommend
poor Le Fever's son to you;--a tear of joy of the first water sparkled in my uncle Toby's eye,
and another, the fellow to it, in the corporal's, as the proposition was made;--you will see
why when you read Le Fever's story:--fool that I was! nor can I recollect (nor perhaps you)
without turning back to the place, what it was that hindered me from letting the corporal tell
it in his own words;--but the occasion is lost,--I must tell it now in my own.

Chapter 3.XLIX.

The Story of Le Fever.

Chapter 3.L.

The Story of Le Fever Continued.

It was not till my uncle Toby had knocked the ashes out of his third pipe, that corporal Trim
returned from the inn, and gave him the following account.

Chapter 3.LI.

The Story of Le Fever Continued.

Chapter 3.LIII.

The Story of Le Fever Continued.

I am so impatient to return to my own story, that what remains of young Le Fever's, that is,
from this turn of his fortune, to the time my uncle Toby recommended him for my preceptor,
shall be told in a very few words in the next chapter.--All that is necessary to be added to
this chapter is as follows.--

That my uncle Toby, with young Le Fever in his hand, attended the poor lieutenant, as chief
mourners, to his grave.

That the governor of Dendermond paid his obsequies all military honours,--and that Yorick,
not to be behind-hand--paid him all ecclesiastic--for he buried him in his chancel:--And it
appears likewise, he preached a funeral sermon over him--I say it appears,--for it was Yorick's
custom, which I suppose a general one with those of his profession, on the first leaf of every
sermon which he composed, to chronicle down the time, the place, and the occasion of its being
preached: to this, he was ever wont to add some short comment or stricture upon the sermon
itself, seldom, indeed, much to its credit:--For instance, This sermon upon the Jewish dispensation--I
don't like it at all;--Though I own there is a world of Water-Landish knowledge in it;--but
'tis all tritical, and most tritically put together.--This is but a flimsy kind of a composition;
what was in my head when I made it?

--N.B. The excellency of this text is, that it will suit any sermon,--and of this sermon,--that
it will suit any text.--

--For this sermon I shall be hanged,--for I have stolen the greatest part of it. Doctor Paidagunes
found me out. > Set a thief to catch a thief.--

On the back of half a dozen I find written, So, so, and no more--and upon a couple Moderato;
by which, as far as one may gather from Altieri's Italian dictionary,--but mostly from the
authority of a piece of green whipcord, which seemed to have been the unravelling of Yorick's
whip-lash, with which he has left us the two sermons marked Moderato, and the half dozen of
So, so, tied fast together in one bundle by themselves,--one may safely suppose he meant pretty
near the same thing.

There is but one difficulty in the way of this conjecture, which is this, that the moderato's
are five times better than the so, so's;--show ten times more knowledge of the human heart;--have
seventy times more wit and spirit in them;--(and, to rise properly in my climax)--discovered
a thousand times more genius;--and to crown all, are infinitely more entertaining than those
tied up with them:--for which reason, whene'er Yorick's dramatic sermons are offered to the
world, though I shall admit but one out of the whole number of the so, so's, I shall, nevertheless,
adventure to print the two moderato's without any sort of scruple.

What Yorick could mean by the words lentamente,--tenute,--grave,--and sometimes adagio,--as
applied to theological compositions, and with which he has characterised some of these sermons,
I dare not venture to guess.--I am more puzzled still upon finding a l'octava alta! upon one;--Con
strepito upon the back of another;--Scicilliana upon a third;--Alla capella upon a fourth;--Con
l'arco upon this;--Senza l'arco upon that.--All I know is, that they are musical terms, and
have a meaning;--and as he was a musical man, I will make no doubt, but that by some quaint
application of such metaphors to the compositions in hand, they impressed very distinct ideas
of their several characters upon his fancy,--whatever they may do upon that of others.

Amongst these, there is that particular sermon which has unaccountably led me into this digression--The
funeral sermon upon poor Le Fever, wrote out very fairly, as if from a hasty copy.--I take
notice of it the more, because it seems to have been his favourite composition--It is upon
mortality; and is tied length-ways and cross-ways with a yarn thrum, and then rolled up and
twisted round with a half-sheet of dirty blue paper, which seems to have been once the cast
cover of a general review, which to this day smells horribly of horse drugs.--Whether these
marks of humiliation were designed,--I something doubt;--because at the end of the sermon (and
not at the beginning of it)--very different from his way of treating the rest, he had wrote--Bravo!

--Though not very offensively,--for it is at two inches, at least, and a half's distance from,
and below the concluding line of the sermon, at the very extremity of the page, and in that
right hand corner of it, which, you know, is generally covered with your thumb; and, to do
it justice, it is wrote besides with a crow's quill so faintly in a small Italian hand, as
scarce to solicit the eye towards the place, whether your thumb is there or not,--so that from
the manner of it, it stands half excused; and being wrote moreover with very pale ink, diluted
almost to nothing,--'tis more like a ritratto of the shadow of vanity, than of Vanity herself--of
the two; resembling rather a faint thought of transient applause, secretly stirring up in the
heart of the composer; than a gross mark of it, coarsely obtruded upon the world.

With all these extenuations, I am aware, that in publishing this, I do no service to Yorick's
character as a modest man;--but all men have their failings! and what lessens this still farther,
and almost wipes it away, is this; that the word was struck through sometime afterwards (as
appears from a different tint of the ink) with a line quite across it in this manner, BRAVO
(crossed out)--as if he had retracted, or was ashamed of the opinion he had once entertained of it.

These short characters of his sermons were always written, excepting in this one instance,
upon the first leaf of his sermon, which served as a cover to it; and usually upon the inside
of it, which was turned towards the text;--but at the end of his discourse, where, perhaps,
he had five or six pages, and sometimes, perhaps, a whole score to turn himself in,--he took
a large circuit, and, indeed, a much more mettlesome one;--as if he had snatched the occasion
of unlacing himself with a few more frolicksome strokes at vice, than the straitness of the
pulpit allowed.--These, though hussar-like, they skirmish lightly and out of all order, are
still auxiliaries on the side of virtue;--tell me then, Mynheer Vander Blonederdondergewdenstronke,
why they should not be printed together?

Chapter 3.LV.

When my uncle Toby had turned every thing into money, and settled all accounts betwixt the
agent of the regiment and Le Fever, and betwixt Le Fever and all mankind,--there remained nothing
more in my uncle Toby's hands, than an old regimental coat and a sword; so that my uncle Toby
found little or no opposition from the world in taking administration. The coat my uncle Toby
gave the corporal;--Wear it, Trim, said my uncle Toby, as long as it will hold together, for
the sake of the poor lieutenant--And this,--said my uncle Toby, taking up the sword in his
hand, and drawing it out of the scabbard as he spoke--and this, Le Fever, I'll save for thee,--'tis
all the fortune, continued my uncle Toby, hanging it up upon a crook, and pointing to it,--'tis
all the fortune, my dear Le Fever, which God has left thee; but if he has given thee a heart
to fight thy way with it in the world,--and thou doest it like a man of honour,--'tis enough
for us.

As soon as my uncle Toby had laid a foundation, and taught him to inscribe a regular polygon
in a circle, he sent him to a public school, where, excepting Whitsontide and Christmas, at
which times the corporal was punctually dispatched for him,--he remained to the spring of the
year, seventeen; when the stories of the emperor's sending his army into Hungary against the
Turks, kindling a spark of fire in his bosom, he left his Greek and Latin without leave, and
throwing himself upon his knees before my uncle Toby, begged his father's sword, and my uncle
Toby's leave along with it, to go and try his fortune under Eugene.--Twice did my uncle Toby
forget his wound and cry out, Le Fever! I will go with thee, and thou shalt fight beside me--And
twice he laid his hand upon his groin, and hung down his head in sorrow and disconsolation.--

My uncle Toby took down the sword from the crook, where it had hung untouched ever since the
lieutenant's death, and delivered it to the corporal to brighten up;--and having detained Le
Fever a single fortnight to equip him, and contract for his passage to Leghorn,--he put the
sword into his hand.--If thou art brave, Le Fever, said my uncle Toby, this will not fail thee,--but
Fortune, said he (musing a little),--Fortune may--And if she does,--added my uncle Toby, embracing
him, come back again to me, Le Fever, and we will shape thee another course.

The greatest injury could not have oppressed the heart of Le Fever more than my uncle Toby's
paternal kindness;--he parted from my uncle Toby, as the best of sons from the best of fathers--both
dropped tears--and as my uncle Toby gave him his last kiss, he slipped sixty guineas, tied
up in an old purse of his father's, in which was his mother's ring, into his hand,--and bid
God bless him.

Chapter 3.LVI.

Le Fever got up to the Imperial army just time enough to try what metal his sword was made
of, at the defeat of the Turks before Belgrade; but a series of unmerited mischances had pursued
him from that moment, and trod close upon his heels for four years together after; he had withstood
these buffetings to the last, till sickness overtook him at Marseilles, from whence he wrote
my uncle Toby word, he had lost his time, his services, his health, and, in short, every thing
but his sword;--and was waiting for the first ship to return back to him.

As this letter came to hand about six weeks before Susannah's accident, Le Fever was hourly
expected; and was uppermost in my uncle Toby's mind all the time my father was giving him and
Yorick a description of what kind of a person he would chuse for a preceptor to me: but as
my uncle Toby thought my father at first somewhat fanciful in the accomplishments he required,
he forbore mentioning Le Fever's name,--till the character, by Yorick's inter-position, ending
unexpectedly, in one, who should be gentle-tempered, and generous, and good, it impressed the
image of Le Fever, and his interest, upon my uncle Toby so forcibly, he rose instantly off
his chair; and laying down his pipe, in order to take hold of both my father's hands--I beg,
brother Shandy, said my uncle Toby, I may recommend poor Le Fever's son to you--I beseech you
do, added Yorick--He has a good heart, said my uncle Toby--And a brave one too, an' please
your honour, said the corporal.

--The best hearts, Trim, are ever the bravest, replied my uncle Toby.--And the greatest cowards,
an' please your honour, in our regiment, were the greatest rascals in it.--There was serjeant
Kumber, and ensign--

--We'll talk of them, said my father, another time.

Chapter 3.LVII.

What a jovial and a merry world would this be, may it please your worships, but for that inextricable
labyrinth of debts, cares, woes, want, grief, discontent, melancholy, large jointures, impositions,
and lies!

Doctor Slop, like a son of a w..., as my father called him for it,--to exalt himself,--debased
me to death,--and made ten thousand times more of Susannah's accident, than there was any grounds
for; so that in a week's time, or less, it was in every body's mouth, That poor Master Shandy...entirely.--And
Fame, who loves to double every thing,--in three days more, had sworn, positively she saw it,--and
all the world, as usual, gave credit to her evidence--'That the nursery window had not only...;--but
that.. .'s also.'

Could the world have been sued like a Body-Corporate,--my father had brought an action upon
the case, and trounced it sufficiently; but to fall foul of individuals about it--as every
soul who had mentioned the affair, did it with the greatest pity imaginable;--'twas like flying
in the very face of his best friends:--And yet to acquiesce under the report, in silence--was
to acknowledge it openly,--at least in the opinion of one half of the world; and to make a
bustle again, in contradicting it,--was to confirm it as strongly in the opinion of the other
half.--

--Was ever poor devil of a country gentleman so hampered? said my father.

I would shew him publickly, said my uncle Toby, at the market cross.

--'Twill have no effect, said my father.

Chapter 3.LVIII.

--I'll put him, however, into breeches, said my father,--let the world say what it will.

Chapter 3.LIX.

There are a thousand resolutions, Sir, both in church and state, as well as in matters, Madam,
of a more private concern;--which, though they have carried all the appearance in the world
of being taken, and entered upon in a hasty, hare-brained, and unadvised manner, were, notwithstanding
this, (and could you or I have got into the cabinet, or stood behind the curtain, we should
have found it was so) weighed, poized, and perpended--argued upon--canvassed through--entered
into, and examined on all sides with so much coolness, that the Goddess of Coolness herself
(I do not take upon me to prove her existence) could neither have wished it, or done it better.

Of the number of these was my father's resolution of putting me into breeches; which, though
determined at once,--in a kind of huff, and a defiance of all mankind, had, nevertheless, been
pro'd and conn'd, and judicially talked over betwixt him and my mother about a month before,
in two several beds of justice, which my father had held for that purpose. I shall explain
the nature of these beds of justice in my next chapter; and in the chapter following that,
you shall step with me, Madam, behind the curtain, only to hear in what kind of manner my father
and my mother debated between themselves, this affair of the breeches,--from which you may
form an idea, how they debated all lesser matters.

Chapter 3.LX.

The ancient Goths of Germany, who (the learned Cluverius is positive) were first seated in
the country between the Vistula and the Oder, and who afterwards incorporated the Herculi,
the Bugians, and some other Vandallick clans to 'em--had all of them a wise custom of debating
every thing of importance to their state, twice, that is,--once drunk, and once sober:--Drunk--that
their councils might not want vigour;--and sober--that they might not want discretion.

Now my father being entirely a water-drinker,--was a long time gravelled almost to death, in
turning this as much to his advantage, as he did every other thing which the ancients did or
said; and it was not till the seventh year of his marriage, after a thousand fruitless experiments
and devices, that he hit upon an expedient which answered the purpose;--and that was, when
any difficult and momentous point was to be settled in the family, which required great sobriety,
and great spirit too, in its determination,--he fixed and set apart the first Sunday night
in the month, and the Saturday night which immediately preceded it, to argue it over, in bed
with my mother: By which contrivance, if you consider, Sir, with yourself,.. ..

These my father, humorously enough, called his beds of justice;--for from the two different
counsels taken in these two different humours, a middle one was generally found out which touched
the point of wisdom as well, as if he had got drunk and sober a hundred times.

I must not be made a secret of to the world, that this answers full as well in literary discussions,
as either in military or conjugal; but it is not every author that can try the experiment as
the Goths and Vandals did it--or, if he can, may it be always for his body's health; and to
do it, as my father did it,--am I sure it would be always for his soul's.

My way is this:--

In all nice and ticklish discussions,--(of which, heaven knows, there are but too many in my
book)--where I find I cannot take a step without the danger of having either their worships
or their reverences upon my back--I write one-half full,--and t'other fasting;--or write it
all full,--and correct it fasting;--or write it fasting,--and correct it full, for they all
come to the same thing:--So that with a less variation from my father's plan, than my father's
from the Gothick--I feel myself upon a par with him in his first bed of justice,--and no way
inferior to him in his second.--These different and almost irreconcileable effects, flow uniformly
from the wise and wonderful mechanism of nature,--of which,--be her's the honour.--All that
we can do, is to turn and work the machine to the improvement and better manufactory of the
arts and sciences.--

Now, when I write full,--I write as if I was never to write fasting again as long as I live;--that
is, I write free from the cares as well as the terrors of the world.--I count not the number
of my scars,--nor does my fancy go forth into dark entries and bye-corners to ante-date my
stabs.--In a word, my pen takes its course; and I write on as much from the fulness of my heart,
as my stomach.--

But when, an' please your honours, I indite fasting, 'tis a different history.--I pay the world
all possible attention and respect,--and have as great a share (whilst it lasts) of that under
strapping virtue of discretion as the best of you.--So that betwixt both, I write a careless
kind of a civil, nonsensical, good-humoured Shandean book, which will do all your hearts good--

--And all your heads too,--provided you understand it.

Chapter 3.LXI.

We should begin, said my father, turning himself half round in bed, and shifting his pillow
a little towards my mother's, as he opened the debate--We should begin to think, Mrs. Shandy,
of putting this boy into breeches.--

We should so,--said my mother.--We defer it, my dear, quoth my father, shamefully.--

I think we do, Mr. Shandy,--said my mother.

--Not but the child looks extremely well, said my father, in his vests and tunicks.--

--He does look very well in them,--replied my mother.--

--And for that reason it would be almost a sin, added my father, to take him out of 'em.--

--It would so,--said my mother:--But indeed he is growing a very tall lad,--rejoined my father.

--He is very tall for his age, indeed,--said my mother.--

--I can not (making two syllables of it) imagine, quoth my father, who the deuce he takes after.--

I cannot conceive, for my life, said my mother.--

Humph!--said my father.

(The dialogue ceased for a moment.)

--I am very short myself,--continued my father gravely.

You are very short, Mr. Shandy,--said my mother.

Humph! quoth my father to himself, a second time: in muttering which, he plucked his pillow
a little further from my mother's,--and turning about again, there was an end of the debate
for three minutes and a half.

--When he gets these breeches made, cried my father in a higher tone, he'll look like a beast
in 'em.

He will be very awkward in them at first, replied my mother.

--And 'twill be lucky, if that's the worst on't, added my father.

It will be very lucky, answered my mother.

I suppose, replied my father,--making some pause first,--he'll be exactly like other people's
children.--

Exactly, said my mother.--

--Though I shall be sorry for that, added my father: and so the debate stopp'd again.--

--They should be of leather, said my father, turning him about again.--

They will last him, said my mother, the longest.

But he can have no linings to 'em, replied my father.--

He cannot, said my mother.

'Twere better to have them of fustian, quoth my father.

Nothing can be better, quoth my mother.--

--Except dimity,--replied my father:--'Tis best of all,--replied my mother.

--One must not give him his death, however,--interrupted my father.

By no means, said my mother:--and so the dialogue stood still again.

I am resolved, however, quoth my father, breaking silence the fourth time, he shall have no
pockets in them.--

--There is no occasion for any, said my mother.--

I mean in his coat and waistcoat,--cried my father.

--I mean so too,--replied my mother.

--Though if he gets a gig or top--Poor souls! it is a crown and a sceptre to them,--they should
have where to secure it.--

Order it as you please, Mr. Shandy, replied my mother.--

--But don't you think it right? added my father, pressing the point home to her.

Perfectly, said my mother, if it pleases you, Mr. Shandy.--

--There's for you! cried my father, losing his temper--Pleases me!--You never will distinguish,
Mrs. Shandy, nor shall I ever teach you to do it, betwixt a point of pleasure and a point of
convenience.--This was on the Sunday night:--and further this chapter sayeth not.

Chapter 3.LXII.

After my father had debated the affair of the breeches with my mother,--he consulted Albertus
Rubenius upon it; and Albertus Rubenius used my father ten times worse in the consultation
(if possible) than even my father had used my mother: For as Rubenius had wrote a quarto express,
De re Vestiaria Veterum,--it was Rubenius's business to have given my father some lights.--On
the contrary, my father might as well have thought of extracting the seven cardinal virtues
out of a long beard,--as of extracting a single word out of Rubenius upon the subject.

Upon every other article of ancient dress, Rubenius was very communicative to my father;--gave
him a full satisfactory account of

 The Toga, or loose gown.
 The Chlamys.
 The Ephod.
 The Tunica, or Jacket.
 The Synthesis.
 The Paenula.
 The Lacema, with its Cucullus.
 The Paludamentum.
 The Praetexta.
 The Sagum, or soldier's jerkin.
 The Trabea: of which, according to Suetonius, there was three kinds.--

--But what are all these to the breeches? said my father.

Rubenius threw him down upon the counter all kinds of shoes which had been in fashion with
the Romans.--

