Then he departed quickly, for Cæsar's whole retinue had pushed forward considerably. The Apostle
Peter blessed him with a slight sign of the cross; but the kindly Ursus began at once to glorify
him, glad that his young mistress listened eagerly and was grateful to him for those praises.

The retinue moved on and hid itself in clouds of golden dust; they gazed long after it, however,
till Demas the miller approached, he for whom Ursus worked in the night-time. When he had kissed
the Apostle's hand, he entreated them to enter his dwelling for refreshment, saying that it
was near the Emporium, that they must be hungry and wearied since they had spent the greater
part of the day at the gate.

They went with him, and, after rest and refreshment in his house, returned to the Trans-Tiber
only toward evening. Intending to cross the river by the Æmilian bridge, they passed through
the Clivus Publicus, going over the Aventine, between the temples of Diana and Mercury. From
that height the Apostle looked on the edifices about him, and on those vanishing in the distance.
Sunk in silence he meditated on the immensity and dominion of that city, to which he had come
to announce the word of God. Hitherto he had seen the rule of Rome and its legions in various
lands through which he had wandered, but they were single members as it were of the power,
which that day for the first time he had seen impersonated in the form of Nero. That city,
immense, predatory, ravenous, unrestrained, rotten to the marrow of its bones, and unassailable
in its preterhuman power; that Cæsar, a fratricide, a matricide, a wife-slayer, after him dragged
a retinue of bloody spectres no less in number than his court. That profligate, that buffoon,
but also lord of thirty legions, and through them of the whole earth; those courtiers covered
with gold and scarlet, uncertain of the morrow, but mightier meanwhile than kings,--all this
together seemed a species of hellish kingdom of wrong and evil. In his simple heart he marvelled
that God could give such inconceivable almightiness to Satan, that He could yield the earth
to him to knead, overturn, and trample it, to squeeze blood and tears from it, to twist it
like a whirlwind, to storm it like a tempest, to consume it like a flame. And his Apostle-heart
was alarmed by those thoughts, and in spirit he spoke to the Master: "O Lord, how shall I begin
in this city, to which Thou hast sent me? To it belong seas and lands, the beasts of the field,
and the creatures of the water; it owns other kingdoms and cities, and thirty legions which
guard them; but I, O Lord, am a fisherman from a lake! How shall I begin, and how shall I conquer
its malice?"

Thus speaking he raised his gray, trembling head toward heaven, praying and exclaiming from
the depth of his heart to his Divine Master, himself full of sadness and fear.

Meanwhile his prayer was interrupted by Lygia.

"The whole city is as if on fire," said she.

In fact the sun went down that day in a marvellous manner. Its immense shield had sunk half-way
behind the Janiculum, the whole expanse of heaven was filled with a red gleam. From the place
on which they were standing, Peter's glance embraced large expanses. Somewhat to the right
they saw the long extending walls of the Circus Maximus; above it the towering palaces of the
Palatine; and directly in front of them, beyond the Forum Boarium and the Velabrum, the summit
of the Capitol, with the temple of Jupiter. But the walls and the columns and the summits of
the temples were as if sunk in that golden and purple gleam. The parts of the river visible
from afar flowed as if in blood; and as the sun sank moment after moment behind the mountain,
the gleam became redder and redder, more and more like a conflagration, and it increased and
extended till finally it embraced the seven hills, from which it extended to the whole region
about.

"The whole city seems on fire!" repeated Lygia.

Peter shaded his eyes with his hand, and said--

"The wrath of God is upon it."

Chapter XXXVII

VINCIUS to LYGIA:

"The slave Phlegon, by whom I send this letter, is a Christian; hence he will be one of those
to receive freedom from thy hands, my dearest. He is an old servant of our house; so I can
write to thee with full confidence, and without fear that the letter will fall into other hands
than thine. I write from Laurentum, where we have halted because of heat. Otho owned here a
lordly villa, which on a time he presented to Poppæa; and she, though divorced from him, saw
fit to retain the magnificent present. When I think of the women who surround me now and of
thee, it seems to me that from the stones hurled by Deucalion there must have risen people
of various kinds, altogether unlike one another, and that thou art of those born of crystal.

"I admire and love thee from my whole soul, and wish to speak only of thee; hence I am forced
to constrain myself to write of our journey, of that which happens to me, and of news of the
court. Well, Cæsar was the guest of Poppæa, who prepared for him secretly a magnificent reception.
She invited only a few of his favorites, but Petronius and I were among them. After dinner
we sailed in golden boats over the sea, which was as calm as if it had been sleeping, and as
blue as thy eyes, O divine one. We ourselves rowed, for evidently it flattered the Augusta
that men of consular dignity, or their sons, were rowing for her. Cæsar, sitting at the rudder
in a purple toga, sang a hymn in honor of the sea; this hymn he had composed the night before,
and with Diodorus had arranged music to it. In other boats he was accompanied by slaves from
India who knew how to play on sea-shells while round about appeared numerous dolphins, as if
really enticed from Amphitrite's depths by music. Dost thou know what I was doing? I was thinking
of thee, and yearning. I wanted to gather in that sea, that calm, and that music, and give
the whole to thee.

"Dost thou wish that we should live in some place at the seashore far from Rome, my Augusta?
I have land in Sicily, on which there is an almond forest which has rose-colored blossoms in
spring, and this forest goes down so near the sea that the tips of the branches almost touch
the water. There I will love thee and magnify Paul's teaching, for I know now that it will
not be opposed to love and happiness. Dost thou wish?--But before I hear thy answer I will
write further of what happened on the boat.

"Soon the shore was far behind. We saw a sail before us in the distance, and all at once a
dispute rose as to whether it was a common fishing-boat or a great ship from Ostia. I was the
first to discover what it was, and then the Augusta said that for my eyes evidently nothing
was hidden, and, dropping the veil over her face on a sudden, she inquired if I could recognize
her thus. Petronius answered immediately that it was not possible to see even the sun behind
a cloud; but she said, as if in jest, that love alone could blind such a piercing glance as
mine, and, naming various women of the court, she fell to inquiring and guessing which one
I loved. I answered calmly, but at last she mentioned thy name. Speaking of thee, she uncovered
her face again, and looked at me with evil and inquiring eyes.

"I feel real gratitude to Petronius, who turned the boat at that moment, through which general
attention was taken from me; for had I heard hostile or sneering words touching thee, I should
not have been able to hide my anger, and should have had to struggle with the wish to break
the head of that wicked, malicious woman with my oar. Thou rememberest the incident at the
pond of Agrippa about which I told thee at the house of Linus on the eve of my departure. Petronius
is alarmed on my account, and to-day again he implored me not to offend the Augusta's vanity.
But Petronius does not understand me, and does not realize that, apart from thee, I know no
pleasure or beauty or love, and that for Poppæa I feel only disgust and contempt. Thou hast
changed my soul greatly,--so greatly that I should not wish now to return to my former life.
But have no fear that harm may reach me here. Poppæa does not love me, for she cannot love
any one, and her desires arise only from anger at Cæsar, who is under her influence yet, and
who is even capable of loving her yet; still, he does not spare her, and does not hide from
her his transgressions and shamelessness.

"I will tell thee, besides, something which should pacify thee. Peter told me in parting not
to fear Cæsar, since a hair would not fall from my head; and I believe him. Some voice in my
soul says that every word of his must be accomplished; that since he blessed our love, neither
Cæsar, nor all the powers of Hades, nor predestination itself, could take thee from me, O Lygia.
When I think of this I am as happy as if I were in heaven, which alone is calm and happy. But
what I say of heaven and predestination may offend thee, a Christian. Christ has not washed
me yet, but my heart is like an empty chalice, which Paul of Tarsus is to fill with the sweet
doctrine professed by thee,--the sweeter for me that it is thine. Thou, divine one, count even
this as a merit to me that I have emptied it of the liquid with which I had filled it before,
and that I do not withdraw it, but hold it forth as a thirsty man standing at a pure spring.
Let me find favor in thy eyes.

"In Antium my days and nights will pass in listening to Paul, who acquired such influence among
my people on the first day that they surround him continually, seeing in him not only a wonder-worker,
but a being almost supernatural. Yesterday I saw gladness on his face, and when I asked what
he was doing, he answered, 'I am sowing!' Petronius knows that he is among my people, and wishes
to see him, as does Seneca also, who heard of him from Gallo.

"But the stars are growing pale, O Lygia, and 'Lucifer' of the morning is bright with growing
force. Soon the dawn will make the sea ruddy; all is sleeping round about, but I am thinking
of thee and loving thee. Be greeted together with the morning dawn, sponsa mea!"

Chapter XXXVIII

VINICIUS to LYGIA:

"Hast thou ever been in Antium, my dear one, with Aulus and Pomponia? If not, I shall be happy
when I show this place to thee. All the way from Laurentum there is a line of villas along
the seashore; and Antium itself is an endless succession of palaces and porticos, whose columns
in fair weather see themselves in the water. I, too, have a residence here right over the sea,
with an olive garden and a forest of cypresses behind the villa, and when I think that the
place will sometime be thine, its marble seems whiter to me, its groves more shady, and the
sea bluer. Oh, Lygia, how good it is to live and love! Old Menikles, who manages the villa,
planted irises on the ground under myrtles, and at sight of them the house of Aulus, the impluvium,
and the garden in which I sat near thee, came to my mind. The irises will remind thee, too,
of thy childhood's home; therefore I am certain that thou wilt love Antium and this villa.

"Immediately after our arrival I talked long with Paul at dinner. We spoke of thee, and afterward
he taught. I listened long, and I say only this, that even could I write like Petronius, I
should not have power to explain everything which passed through my soul and my mind. I had
not supposed that there could be such happiness in this world, such beauty and peace of which
hitherto people had no knowledge. But I retain all this for conversation with thee, for at
the first free moment I shall be in Rome.

