Some of the sailors wished him to take the first course, but the others, and all the sick men,
said: "Nay, let us fall into the hands of God, and not into the hands of Spain." This they
said because they thought it better to die, than to be made prisoners by the cruel Spaniards.

Sir Richard made up his mind to fight. It was after noon when the firing began, and all night
long, until daylight came, the little English ship kept the fifty Spanish vessels at bay. Then
it was found that all the powder was gone, and all the English were dead or dying. And then
only was the flag of the Revenge pulled down, to show that she surrendered to her enemies.

The brave Sir Richard was taken on board a Spanish ship, where he soon died of his wounds.

=The Pilgrim Fathers=

There was a time when the people of England were not allowed to pray to God in the way they
thought right, but were punished if they did not worship as the king ordered. This was very
hard, and when James I was king, a little band of brave people, who found that they could not
obey the king, left their country to make a new home across the sea, where they could be free.
They are called the "Pilgrim Fathers".

A hundred people--men, women, and children--set sail in a little ship called the Mayflower
for the new world which a great explorer called Columbus had discovered away in the west, and
which we now call America. They had a long and stormy voyage, but at last, in mid-winter, they
landed on the shores of North America, and set up their huts.

At first they had much trouble, for the ground was frozen and barren. They suffered from hunger
and sickness, and the wild Indians who lived in that land came down upon them and tried to
drive them away. But the Pilgrim Fathers did not lose courage. They were free, and they worked
hard, and waited in patience for brighter days. By and by other ships from England brought
food to keep them alive, and more people to help them. Then they made friends with the Indians,
and when spring came they planted seeds and grew crops for themselves.

After a time many other Englishmen, who wished to be free, followed the Pilgrim Fathers, and
settled in America. They founded the colonies of New England, which are now a part of the United
States.

=Guy Fawkes=

In the time of James I, many of the English people were very hardly treated because of their
religion. At last they could bear the ill-usage no longer, and they thought of a plan to get
rid of the king and queen and their eldest son.

Many barrels of gunpowder were secretly put into a cellar under the Parliament House, where
James was to meet his lords and commons on November 5; and a man named Guy Fawkes was hired
to set fire to it at the right time, and so to blow up the hall above, and all in it.

All was ready, when one of the plotters remembered that a friend of his would be at the meeting
next day. As he did not wish him to be killed, he sent him a letter, without signing his name,
saying: "Do not go to the House, for there shall be a sudden blow to many, and they shall not
see who hurts them".

The lord who received this letter took it to the King's Council, and when King James saw it,
he guessed what the "sudden blow" would be. Men were sent to search the cellars, and there,
on the very night before the deed was to be done, Guy Fawkes was found waiting till the time
should come to set fire to the powder. He was cruelly tortured to make him tell all he knew,
but he was a brave man, and he died without betraying his friends.

Since that time, every year, on the 5th of November, bonfires have been lighted in many places
in England, and "guys" burned, to remind people how an English king was once saved from a great
danger.

=Cromwell and his Ironsides=

When Charles I came to the throne of England, it was soon seen that he was as bad a king as
his father James I had been.

He did not care at all for the good of his country and his people, but thought only of his
own pleasure. He took away men's money and lands, and if they offended him he took their lives too.

Englishmen would not bear this unjust treatment for long, and soon a war began between the
king and the people, who were determined to be free.

At first the king and his men were victorious everywhere, for they were all used to horses
and arms, and fought so well and so bravely that the people could not stand against them. But
at last a great leader arose among the people. This leader, who was called Oliver Cromwell,
was a rough man, but he was just, good, and honest.

He saw at once that the people would never gain the victory over the brave gentlemen-soldiers
of King Charles, unless they had obedient and well-trained men to fight for them. So he chose
a band of plain, hard-working men who feared God, and loved duty and right, and he spent all
his money in fitting them with arms and horses, and in training them sternly, until they became
the finest soldiers the world has ever known. Cromwell called his men his "lovely company",
and others called them "Ironsides", for they were strong and firm as iron, and were never beaten.
It was these brave, sober, obedient soldiers who at last defeated the king's army, and won
freedom for the people of England.

=The Spanish Armada=

The Armada was a great fleet which the King of Spain sent to attack England, in the days of
Queen Elizabeth. There were more than a hundred ships, so large and high that they looked like
towers on the sea; and they came sailing along arranged in the shape of a big half-moon.

The great English admiral, Sir Francis Drake, was playing at bowls when messengers came hurrying
to tell him that the Armada was approaching. He quietly finished his game, and then set sail
to fight the Spaniards. His fleet was not so large as the Armada, and the ships were small,
but they were light and fast. They met the Armada in the English Channel, and sailed round
it, attacking any ship that dropped out of line, and speeding away before the clumsy Spanish
vessels could seize them. In this way they did much harm to the enemy. Then, one night, when
it was dark, and the Spanish vessels were lying quietly at anchor, Admiral Drake sent eight
blazing fire-ships into their midst. In great fear, the Spaniards cut their anchor-ropes, and
sailed out to the open sea, and the English ships followed, firing upon them as they fled.
For two days the English chased the flying Spaniards. Then their powder and shot failed, and
a storm arose; so they had to go back. The Armada sailed on, hoping to escape, but the wild
tempest tossed many of the great vessels on the rocks and cliffs of the coast, and dashed them
to pieces. Only a few, broken and battered, with starving and weary men on board, ever reached
Spain again. And so England was saved.

=The Defence of Lathom House=

Lathom House is an old English castle. When the war broke out between King Charles I and his
people, the Earl of Derby, who was the master of this castle, went away to fight for the king.
He left the Countess at home with her children, with a small band of armed men to guard her
and the castle. One day an army of the people's soldiers came to the castle, and the leader
of the army sent word to the Countess that she must give up the castle at once.

But the Countess was a brave woman. She replied that she would rather set fire to the castle,
and die with her children in the flames, than give it up to the king's enemies.

Then began a fight which lasted many weeks. The large army outside the walls did their best
to break a way in, but the small company inside defended the castle bravely. At last the leader
of the besiegers brought a strong new gun, and it was soon seen that this would break down
the walls. Then one night the Countess sent out a party of brave men, who seized the new gun
and brought it into the castle, and so the worst danger was over. Soon afterwards Prince Rupert,
one of the king's generals, came with an army to help the Countess, and Lathom House was saved.

The prince drove away the soldiers of the people, and took from them twenty-two banners, which
he sent as a present to the Countess, to show how much he admired her bravery.

THE OUTLAWED ARCHERS.

Many years ago there dwelt in the forest of Inglewood, in the North country, three yeomen,
who had been outlawed for killing the king's deer. They were all famous archers, and defying
every attempt to arrest them, they lived a free life in the green wood. But finally growing
tired of this dangerous life, they went to the king to sue for pardon. It happened that the
king's archers were exhibiting their skill by shooting at marks, which none of them missed.
But one of the outlawed archers, named Cloudesly, made light of their skill, and told the king
that he could do better than any of his archers had done. "To prove the truth of my claim,"
he said, "I will take my son, who is only seven years old and is dear to me, and I will tie
him to a stake, and lay an apple on his head, and go six score paces from him, and with a broad
arrow I will cleave the apple in two."

"Now listen," said the king, "and do as you say; but if you touch his head, or his dress, you
shall be hanged all three."

"I will not go back on my word," said Cloudesly; and driving a stake into the ground, he bound
thereto his little son, and placed an apple on his head. All being ready he bent his bow, the
arrow flew from the string, the apple was cleft in twain, and the child was unhurt. The king
thereupon pardoned the three outlaws and received them into his service.

=Elizabeth and Raleigh=

Sir Walter Raleigh was a favourite courtier of Queen Elizabeth. An old story tells us of the
way he won her favour.

One day, as the queen and her ladies were out walking, dressed in fine robes of silk and lace,
they came to a miry puddle in the road. The queen stopped in dismay, for she did not like getting
her feet wet and dirty. As she was thinking how best to step through the mud, a young man in
a rich suit came along the road.

Directly he saw the queen, young Raleigh, for it was he, sprang forward, and, taking off his
velvet cloak, spread it over the mud for her to walk upon.

Elizabeth was much pleased; she rewarded Raleigh with a post in the palace. There, one day,
he wrote upon a window which he knew the queen would pass: "Fain would I climb, but that I
fear to fall". When Elizabeth saw this, she added these words: "If thy heart fail thee, climb
not at all". However, Raleigh did climb very soon to a high place, for he was clever and brave
as well as polite, and he served the queen in many ways.

It is said that his ships first brought potatoes and tobacco to England from America, and that
he was the first man in this country to smoke. One day, a servant brought a jug of ale into
the room where Raleigh was sitting and smoking. The man was much alarmed to see smoke coming
from his master's mouth, and he quickly emptied the jug of ale over Raleigh's head, to put
out the fire which he thought was burning within him.