All the morning at the office.  After dinner my wife, and Deb., and I, to the King's house
again, coming too late yesterday to hear the prologue, and do like the play better now than
before; and, indeed, there is a great deal of true wit in it, more than in the common sort
of plays, and so home to my business, and at night to bed, my eyes making me sad.

2nd. (Lord's day).  Up and at home all the morning, hanging, and removing of some pictures,
in my study and house.  At noon Pelling dined with me. After dinner, I and Tom, my boy, by
water up to Putney, and there heard a sermon, and many fine people in the church.  Thence walked
to Barne Elmes, and there, and going and coming, did make the boy read to me several things,
being now-a-days unable to read myself anything, for above two lines together, but my eyes
grow weary.  Home about night, and so to supper and then to bed.

3rd.  Up, and by water to White Hall and St. James's, where I did much business, and about
noon meeting Dr. Gibbons, carried him to the Sun taverne, in King Street, and there made him,
and some friends of his, drink; among others, Captain Silas Taylor, and here did get Gibbons
to promise me some things for my flageolets.  So to the Old Exchange, and then home to dinner,
and so, Mercer dining with us, I took my wife and her and Deb. out to Unthanke's, while I to
White Hall to the Commissioners of the Treasury, and so back to them and took them out to Islington,
where we met with W. Joyce and his wife and boy, and there eat and drank, and a great deal
of his idle talk, and so we round by Hackney home, and so to sing a little in the garden, and
then to bed.

4th.  Up, and to my office a little, and then to White Hall about a Committee for Tangier at
my Lord Arlington's, where, by Creed's being out of town, I have the trouble given me of drawing
up answers to the complaints of the Turks of Algiers, and so I have all the papers put into
my hand.  Here till noon, and then back to the Office, where sat a little, and then to dinner,
and presently to the office, where come to me my Lord Bellassis, Lieutenant-Colonell Fitzgerald,
newly come from Tangier, and Sir Arthur Basset, and there I received their informations, and
so, they being gone, I with my clerks and another of Lord Brouncker's, Seddon, sat up till
two in the morning, drawing up my answers and writing them fair, which did trouble me mightily
to sit up so long, because of my eyes.

5th.  So to bed about two o'clock, and then up about seven and to White Hall, where read over
my report to Lord Arlington and Berkeley, and then afterward at the Council Board with great
good liking, but, Lord! how it troubled my eyes, though I did not think I could have done it,
but did do it, and was not very bad afterward.  So I away home, and there bespeak a coach;
and so home and to bed, my wife being abroad with the Mercers walking in the fields, and upon
the water.  So to bed.

8th.  Up, and I walked out, and met Uncle Wight, whom I sent to last night, and Mr. Wight coming
to see us, and I walked with them back to see my aunt at Katherine Hill, and there walked up
and down the hill and places, about: but a dull place, but good ayre, and the house dull. 
But here I saw my aunt, after many days not seeing her--I think, a year or two; and she walked
with me to see my wife.  And here, at the Red Lyon, we all dined together, and mighty merry,
and then parted: and we home to Fox Hall, where Fitzgerald and I 'light, and by water to White
Hall, where the Duke of York being abroad, I by coach and met my wife, who went round, and
after doing at the office a little, and finding all well at home, I to bed.  I hear that Colbert,
the French Ambassador, is come, and hath been at Court incognito.  When he hath his audience,
I know not.

9th (Lord's day).  Thence to White Hall, and thence to visit Lord Brouncker, and back to White
Hall, where saw the Queen and ladies; and so, with Mr. Slingsby, to Mrs. Williams's, thinking
to dine with Lord Brouncker there, but did not, having promised my wife to come home, though
here I met Knepp, to my great content.  So home; and, after dinner, I took my wife and Deb.
round by Hackney, and up and down to take the ayre; and then home, and made visits to Mrs.
Turner, and Mrs. Mercer, and Sir W. Pen, who is come from Epsom not well, and Sir J. Minnes,
who is not well neither.  And so home to supper, and to set my books a little right, and then
to bed. This day Betty Michell come and dined with us, the first day after her lying in, whom
I was glad to see.

10th.  Thence to Westminster Hall, and so by coach to the old Exchange, and there did several
businesses, and so home to dinner, and then abroad to Duck Lane, where I saw my belle femme
of the book vendor, but had no opportunity para hazer con her. 4d.; and which I sent him this
night, that I might be out of debt. Thence my people home, and I to Westminster Hall about
a little business, and so by water home [to] supper, and my wife to read a ridiculous book
I bought today of the History of the Taylors' Company,

     [The title of this book was, "The Honour of the Merchant Taylors."
     Wherein is set forth the noble acts, valliant deeds, and heroick
     performances of Merchant Taylors in former ages; their honourable
     loves, and knightly adventures, their combating of foreign enemies
     and glorious successes in honour of the English nation: together
     with their pious....]

and all the while Deb. did comb my head, and I did toker her with my main para very great pleasure,
and so to bed.

11th.  In the early period of the war between
     the king and the parliament, a course of sermons or lectures was
     projected in aid of the parliamentary cause.  These lectures, which
     were preached by eminent Presbyterian divines at seven o'clock on
     the Sunday mornings, were commenced in the church of St. Mary
     Magdalen in Milk Street, but were soon afterwards removed to St.
     Giles's, Cripplegate.  After the Restoration the lectures were
     collected in four volumes, and published under the title of the
     "Cripplegate Morning Exercises," vol. i. in 1661; vol. ii. in 1674;
     vol. iii. in 1682; and vol. iv. in 1690.  In addition there were two
     volumes which form a supplement to the work, viz., "The Morning
     Exercises methodized," preached at St. Giles's-in-the-Fields, edited
     by the Rev. Thomas Case in 1660, and the "Exercises against Popery,"
     preached in Southwark, and published in 1675 (see Demon's "Records
     of St. Giles's, Crinnlegate," 1883, pp. 55-56).]

up again, which is pretty strange; and they are connived at by the King every where, I hear,
in City and country.  So to visit W. Pen, who is yet ill, and then home, where W. Batelier
and Mrs. Turner come and sat and supped with us, and so they gone we to bed.  This afternoon
my wife, and Mercer, and Deb., went with Pelting to see the gypsies at Lambeth, and have their
fortunes told; but what they did, I did not enquire.

12th.  Up, and all the morning busy at my office.  Thence to the Excise Office, and so to the
Temple to take counsel about Major Nicholls's business for the King.  So to several places
about business, and among others to Drumbleby's about the mouths for my paper tubes, and so
to the 'Change and home.  Home to dinner, where Pelting dines with us, and brings some partridges,
which is very good meat; and, after dinner, I, and wife, and Mercer, and Deb., to the Duke
of York's house, and saw "Mackbeth," to our great content, and then home, where the women went
to the making of my tubes, and I to the office, and then come Mrs. Turner and her husband to
advise about their son, the Chaplain, who is turned out of his ship, a sorrow to them, which
I am troubled for, and do give them the best advice I can, and so they gone we to bed.

13th.  Up, and Greeting comes, and there he and I tried some things of Mr. Locke's for two
flageolets, to my great content, and this day my wife begins again to learn of him; for I have
a great mind for her to be able to play a part with me.  Thence I to the Office, where all
the afternoon [morning??], and then to dinner, where W. Howe dined with me, who tells me for
certain that Creed is like to speed in his match with Mrs. Betty Pickering.  Here dined with
me also Mr. Hollier, who is mighty vain in his pretence to talk Latin.  So to the Office again
all the afternoon till night, very busy, and so with much content home, and made my wife sing
and play on the flageolet to me till I slept with great pleasure in bed.

14th.  Up, and by water to White Hall and St. James's, and to see Sir W. Coventry, and discourse
about business of our Office, telling him my trouble there, to see how things are ordered.
I told him also what Cocke told me the other day, but he says there is not much in it, though
he do know that this hath been in the eye of some persons to compass for the turning all things
in the navy, and that it looks so like a popular thing as that he thinks something may be done
in it, but whether so general or no, as I tell it him, he knows not.  Thence to White Hall,
and there wait at the Council-chamber door a good while, talking with one or other, and so
home by water, though but for a little while, because I am to return to White Hall.  At home
I find Symson, putting up my new chimney-piece, in our great chamber, which is very fine, but
will cost a great deal of money, but it is not flung away.

15th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning busy, and after dinner with my wife, Mercer,
and Deb., to the King's playhouse, and there saw "Love's Mistresse" revived, the thing pretty
good, but full of variety of divertisement.  So home and to my business at the office, my eyes
bad again, and so to bed.

16th (Lord's day).  At noon to dinner, and again with him to work all the afternoon till night,
till I was weary and had despatched a good deal of business, and so to bed after hearing my
wife read a little.

17th.  Thence to the Duke of York's house, and there saw "Cupid's Revenge," under the new name
of "Love Despised," that hath something very good in it, though I like not the whole body of
it.  This day the first time acted here. Thence home, and there with Mr. Hater and W. Hewer
late, reading over all the principal officers' instructions in order to my great work upon
my hand, and so to bed, my eyes very ill.

18th.  Up, and to my office about my great business betimes, and so to the office, where all
the morning.  At noon dined, and then to the office all the afternoon also, and in the evening
to Sir W. Coventry's, but he not within, I took coach alone to the Park, to try to meet him
there, but did not; but there were few coaches, but among the few there were in two coaches
our two great beauties, my Lady Castlemayne and Richmond; the first time I saw the latter since
she had the smallpox.  I had much pleasure to see them, but I thought they were strange one
to another. Thence going out I met a coach going, which I thought had Knepp in it, so I went
back, but it was not she.  So back to White Hall and there took water, and so home, and busy
late about my great letter to the Duke of York, and so to supper and to bed .  .  .  .

19th.  Up betimes, and all day and afternoon without going out, busy upon my great letter to
the Duke of York, which goes on to my content. W. Hewer and Gibson I employ with me in it.
This week my people wash, over the water, and so I little company at home.  In the evening,
being busy above, a great cry I hear, and go down; and what should it be but Jane, in a fit
of direct raving, which lasted half-an-hour.  Beyond four or five of our strength to keep her
down; and, when all come to all, a fit of jealousy about Tom, with whom she is in love.  So
at night, I, and my wife, and W. Hewer called them to us, and there I did examine all the thing,
and them, in league.  She in love, and he hath got her to promise him to marry, and he is now
cold in it, so that I must rid my hands of them, which troubles me, and the more because my
head is now busy upon other greater things.  I am vexed also to be told by W. Hewer that he
is summoned to the Commissioners of Accounts about receiving a present of L30 from Mr. Mason,
the timber merchant, though there be no harm in it, that will appear on his part, he having
done them several lawful kindnesses and never demanded anything, as they themselves have this
day declared to the Commissioners, they being forced up by the discovery of somebody that they
in confidence had once told it to. So to supper vexed and my head full of care, and so to bed.

20th.  Betimes at my business again, and so to the office, and dined with Brouncker and J.
Minnes, at Sir W. Pen's at a bad pasty of venison, and so to work again, and at it till past
twelve at night, that I might get my great letter

     [In the Pepysian Library is a MS. (No. 2242), entitled, "Papers
     conteyning my addresse to his Royall Highnesse James Duke of Yorke,
     Lord High Admirall of England, &c., by letter dated the 20th of
     August, 1668, humbly tendering him my advice touching the present
     State of the Office of the Navy, with his Royall Highness's
     proceedings upon the same, and their result."]

to the Duke of York ready against to-morrow, which I shall do, to my great content.  So to
bed.  So back home and to the 'Change, in my way calling at Morris', my vintner's, where I
love to see su moher, though no acquaintance accostais this day con her.  Did several things
at the 'Change, and so home to dinner.

     [The set of portraits known as "King Charles's Beauties," formerly
     in Windsor Castle, but now at Hampton Court.--B.]

Thence to Reeves's, and bought a reading-glass, and so to my bookseller's again, there to buy
a Book of Martyrs,

     [The popular name of John Fox's "Acts and Monuments," first
     published in 1562-63.]

which I did agree for; and so, after seeing and beginning acquaintance con his femme, but very
little, away home, and there busy very late at the correcting my great letter to the Duke of
York, and so to bed.

22nd.  Up betimes, at it again with great content, and so to the Office, where all the morning,
and did fall out with W. Pen about his slight performance of his office, and so home to dinner,
fully satisfied that this Office must sink or the whole Service be undone.  To the office all
the afternoon again, and then home to supper and to bed, my mind being pretty well at ease,
my great letter being now finished to my full content; and I thank God I have opportunity of
doing it, though I know it will set the Office and me by the ears for ever.  This morning Captain
Cocke comes, and tells me that he is now assured that it is true, what he told me the other
day, that our whole Office will be turned out, only me, which, whether he says true or no,
I know not, nor am much concerned, though I should be better contented to have it thus than
otherwise.  This afternoon, after I was weary in my business of the office, I went forth to
the 'Change, thinking to have spoke with Captain Cocke, but he was not within.  The jade was
surprised, and did not deny it, and the woman so silly, as to let her go that took it, only
taking the meat.

23rd (Lord's day).  Up betimes, my head busy in my great letter, and I did first hang up my
new map of Paris in my green room, and changed others in other places.  Then to Captain Cocke's,
thinking to have talked more of what he told me yesterday, but he was not within.  Then home
to dinner, where Mr. Pelting, who brought us a hare, which we had at dinner, and W. Howe. And
so I away, and got a coach, and home, and there with my wife and W. Hewer, talking all the
evening, my mind running on the business of the Office, to see what more I can do to the rendering
myself acceptable and useful to all and to the King.  We to supper, and to bed.

24th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning upon considerations on the Victualler's
contract, and then home to dinner, where my wife is upon hanging the long chamber where the
girl lies, with the sad stuff that was in the best chamber, in order to the hanging that with
tapestry. So to dinner, and then to the office again, where all the afternoon till night, we
met to discourse upon the alterations which are propounded to be made in the draft of the victualler's
contract which we did lately make, and then we being up comes Mr. Child, Papillion and Littleton,
his partners, to discourse upon the matter with me, which I did, and spent all the evening
with them at the office, and so, they being gone, I to supper and talk with my wife, and so
to bed.  So home to dinner at noon, and all the afternoon busy at the office till night, and
then with my mind full of business now in my head, I to supper and to bed.

26th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning almost, busy about business against the
afternoon, and we met a little to sign two or three things at the Board of moment, and thence
at noon home to dinner, and so away to White Hall by water.  In my way to the Old Swan, finding
a great many people gathered together in Cannon Street about a man that was working in the
ruins, and the ground did sink under him, and he sunk in, and was forced to be dug out again,
but without hurt.  At White Hall we met at the Treasury chamber, and there before the Lords
did debate our draft of the victualling contract with the several bidders for it, which were
Sir D. Gawden, Mr. Child and his fellows, and Mr. Dorrington and his, a poor variety in a business
of this value.  Mrs. Pierce and her people went home betimes, she being big with child; but
Knepp and the rest staid till almost three in the morning, and then broke up.

27th.

     [A copy of this letter is in the British Museum, Harl.  MS. 6003.
     See July 24th, ante, and August 29th, Post.  In the Pepysian
     Collection are the following: An Inquisition, by his Royal Highness
     the Duke of York, when Lord High Admiral of England, into the
     Management of the Navy, 1668, with his Regulations thereon, fol.  Which pleases me, though I do not much shew it to him, but
as a thing indifferent.

28th.  Busy at the office till toward 10 o'clock, and then by water to White Hall, where attending
the Council's call all the morning with Lord Brouncker, W. Pen, and the rest, about the business
of supernumeraries in the fleete, but were not called in. Thence; with much ado, by several
coaches home, to supper and to bed. Writing to my father to-night not to unfurnish our house
in the country for my sister, who is going to her own house, because I think I may have occasion
myself to come thither; and so I do, by our being put out of the Office, which do not at all
trouble me to think of.  Coming into the Park, and the door kept strictly, I had opportunity
of handing in the little, pretty, squinting girl of the Duke of York's house, but did not make
acquaintance with her; but let her go, and a little girl that was with her, to walk by themselves.
So with full content, declaring all our content in being released of my employment, my wife
and I to bed, and W. Hewer home, and so all to bed.

31st.  Thence to the Fayre, and saw "Polichinelle," and so home, and after a little supper
to bed.  This night lay the first night in Deb.'s chamber, which is now hung with that that
hung our great chamber, and is now a very handsome room.  This day Mrs. Batelier did give my
wife a mighty pretty Spaniel bitch [Flora], which she values mightily, and is pretty; but as
a new comer, I cannot be fond of her.

