I was determined to say nothing that I did not feel from the bottom of my heart to be true
and right. When the invitation came to me, there was not one word of intimation as to what
I should say or as to what I should omit. In this I felt that the Board of Directors had paid
a tribute to me. They knew that by one sentence I could have blasted, in a large degree, the
success of the Exposition. I was also painfully conscious of the fact that, while I must be
true to my own race in my utterances, I had it in my power to make such an ill-timed address
as would result in preventing any similar invitation being extended to a black man again for
years to come. I was equally determined to be true to the North, as well as to the best element
of the white South, in what I had to say.

The papers, North and South, had taken up the discussion of my coming speech, and as the time
for it drew near this discussion became more and more widespread. Not a few of the Southern
white papers were unfriendly to the idea of my speaking. From my own race I received many suggestions
as to what I ought to say. I prepared myself as best I could for the address, but as the eighteenth
of September drew nearer, the heavier my heart became, and the more I feared that my effort
would prove a failure and a disappointment.

The invitation had come at a time when I was very busy with my school work, as it was the beginning
of our school year. After preparing my address, I went through it, as I usually do with those
utterances which I consider particularly important, with Mrs. Washington, and she approved
of what I intended to say. On the sixteenth of September, the day before I was to start for
Atlanta, so many of the Tuskegee teachers expressed a desire to hear my address that I consented
to read it to them in a body. When I had done so, and had heard their criticisms and comments,
I felt somewhat relieved, since they seemed to think well of what I had to say.

On the morning of September 17, together with Mrs. Washington and my three children, I started
for Atlanta. I felt a good deal as I suppose a man feels when he is on his way to the gallows.
In passing through the town of Tuskegee I met a white farmer who lived some distance out in
the country. In a jesting manner this man said: "Washington, you have spoken before the Northern
white people, the Negroes in the South, and to us country white people in the South; but Atlanta,
to-morrow, you will have before you the Northern whites, the Southern whites, and the Negroes
all together. I am afraid that you have got yourself in a tight place." This farmer diagnosed
the situation correctly, but his frank words did not add anything to my comfort.

In the course of the journey from Tuskegee to Atlanta both coloured and white people came to
the train to point me out, and discussed with perfect freedom, in my hearings, what was going
to take place the next day. We were met by a committee in Atlanta. Almost the first thing that
I heard when I got off the train in that city was an expression something like this, from an
old coloured man near by: "Dat's de man of my race what's gwine to make a speech at de Exposition
to-morrow. I'se sho' gwine to hear him."

Atlanta was literally packed, at the time, with people from all parts of the country, and with
representatives of foreign governments, as well as with military and civic organizations. The
afternoon papers had forecasts of the next day's proceedings in flaring headlines. All this
tended to add to my burden. I did not sleep much that night. The next morning, before day,
I went carefully over what I planned to say. I also kneeled down and asked God's blessing upon
my effort. Right here, perhaps, I ought to add that I make it a rule never to go before an
audience, on any occasion, without asking the blessing of God upon what I want to say.

I always make it a rule to make especial preparation for each separate address. No two audiences
are exactly alike. It is my aim to reach and talk to the heart of each individual audience,
taking it into my confidence very much as I would a person. When I am speaking to an audience,
I care little for how what I am saying is going to sound in the newspapers, or to another audience,
or to an individual. At the time, the audience before me absorbs all my sympathy, thought,
and energy.

Early in the morning a committee called to escort me to my place in the procession which was
to march to the Exposition grounds. In this procession were prominent coloured citizens in
carriages, as well as several Negro military organizations. I noted that the Exposition officials
seemed to go out of their way to see that all of the coloured people in the procession were
properly placed and properly treated. The procession was about three hours in reaching the
Exposition grounds, and during all of this time the sun was shining down upon us disagreeably
hot. When we reached the grounds, the heat, together with my nervous anxiety, made me feel
as if I were about ready to collapse, and to feel that my address was not going to be a success.
When I entered the audience-room, I found it packed with humanity from bottom to top, and there
were thousands outside who could not get in.

The room was very large, and well suited to public speaking. When I entered the room, there
were vigorous cheers from the coloured portion of the audience, and faint cheers from some
of the white people. I had been told, while I had been in Atlanta, that while many white people
were going to be present to hear me speak, simply out of curiosity, and that others who would
be present would be in full sympathy with me, there was a still larger element of the audience
which would consist of those who were going to be present for the purpose of hearing me make
a fool of myself, or, at least, of hearing me say some foolish thing so that they could say
to the officials who had invited me to speak, "I told you so!"

One of the trustees of the Tuskegee Institute, as well as my personal friend, Mr. William H.
Baldwin, Jr. was at the time General Manager of the Southern Railroad, and happened to be in
Atlanta on that day. He was so nervous about the kind of reception that I would have, and the
effect that my speech would produce, that he could not persuade himself to go into the building,
but walked back and forth in the grounds outside until the opening exercises were over.

Chapter XIV. The Atlanta Exposition Address

The Atlanta Exposition, at which I had been asked to make an address as a representative of
the Negro race, as stated in the last chapter, was opened with a short address from Governor
Bullock. After other interesting exercises, including an invocation from Bishop Nelson, of
Georgia, a dedicatory ode by Albert Howell, Jr., and addresses by the President of the Exposition
and Mrs. Joseph Thompson, the President of the Woman's Board, Governor Bullock introduce me
with the words, "We have with us to-day a representative of Negro enterprise and Negro civilization."

When I arose to speak, there was considerable cheering, especially from the coloured people.
As I remember it now, the thing that was uppermost in my mind was the desire to say something
that would cement the friendship of the races and bring about hearty cooperation between them.
So far as my outward surroundings were concerned, the only thing that I recall distinctly now
is that when I got up, I saw thousands of eyes looking intently into my face. The following
is the address which I delivered:--

Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Board of Directors and Citizens.

One-third of the population of the South is of the Negro race. No enterprise seeking the material,
civil, or moral welfare of this section can disregard this element of our population and reach
the highest success. I but convey to you, Mr. President and Directors, the sentiment of the
masses of my race when I say that in no way have the value and manhood of the American Negro
been more fittingly and generously recognized than by the managers of this magnificent Exposition
at every stage of its progress. It is a recognition that will do more to cement the friendship
of the two races than any occurrence since the dawn of our freedom.

Not only this, but the opportunity here afforded will awaken among us a new era of industrial
progress. Ignorant and inexperienced, it is not strange that in the first years of our new
life we began at the top instead of at the bottom; that a seat in Congress or the state legislature
was more sought than real estate or industrial skill; that the political convention or stump
speaking had more attractions than starting a dairy farm or truck garden.

A ship lost at sea for many days suddenly sighted a friendly vessel. From the mast of the unfortunate
vessel was seen a signal, "Water, water; we die of thirst!" The answer from the friendly vessel
at once came back, "Cast down your bucket where you are." A second time the signal, "Water,
water; send us water!" ran up from the distressed vessel, and was answered, "Cast down your
bucket where you are." And a third and fourth signal for water was answered, "Cast down your
bucket where you are." The captain of the distressed vessel, at last heading the injunction,
cast down his bucket, and it came up full of fresh, sparkling water from the mouth of the Amazon
River. To those of my race who depend on bettering their condition in a foreign land or who
underestimate the importance of cultivating friendly relations with the Southern white man,
who is their next-door neighbour, I would say: "Cast down your bucket where you are"--cast
it down in making friends in every manly way of the people of all races by whom we are surrounded.

Cast it down in agriculture, mechanics, in commerce, in domestic service, and in the professions.
And in this connection it is well to bear in mind that whatever other sins the South may be
called to bear, when it comes to business, pure and simple, it is in the South that the Negro
is given a man's chance in the commercial world, and in nothing is this Exposition more eloquent
than in emphasizing this chance. Our greatest danger is that in the great leap from slavery
to freedom we may overlook the fact that the masses of us are to live by the productions of
our hands, and fail to keep in mind that we shall prosper in proportion as we learn to dignify
and glorify common labour and put brains and skill into the common occupations of life; shall
prosper in proportion as we learn to draw the line between the superficial and the substantial,
the ornamental gewgaws of life and the useful. No race can prosper till it learns that there
is as much dignity in tilling a field as in writing a poem. It is at the bottom of life we
must begin, and not at the top. Nor should we permit our grievances to overshadow our opportunities.

To those of the white race who look to the incoming of those of foreign birth and strange tongue
and habits of the prosperity of the South, were I permitted I would repeat what I say to my
own race: "Cast down your bucket where you are." Cast it down among the eight millions of Negroes
whose habits you know, whose fidelity and love you have tested in days when to have proved
treacherous meant the ruin of your firesides. Cast down your bucket among these people who
have, without strikes and labour wars, tilled your fields, cleared your forests, builded your
railroads and cities, and brought forth treasures from the bowels of the earth, and helped
make possible this magnificent representation of the progress of the South. Casting down your
bucket among my people, helping and encouraging them as you are doing on these grounds, and
to education of head, hand, and heart, you will find that they will buy your surplus land,
make blossom the waste places in your fields, and run your factories. While doing this, you
can be sure in the future, as in the past, that you and your families will be surrounded by
the most patient, faithful, law-abiding, and unresentful people that the world has seen. As
we have proved our loyalty to you in the past, nursing your children, watching by the sick-bed
of your mothers and fathers, and often following them with tear-dimmed eyes to their graves,
so in the future, in our humble way, we shall stand by you with a devotion that no foreigner
can approach, ready to lay down our lives, if need be, in defence of yours, interlacing our
industrial, commercial, civil, and religious life with yours in a way that shall make the interests
of both races one.

There is no defence or security for any of us except in the highest intelligence and development
of all. If anywhere there are efforts tending to curtail the fullest growth of the Negro, let
these efforts be turned into stimulating, encouraging, and making him the most useful and intelligent
citizen. Effort or means so invested will pay a thousand per cent interest. These efforts will
be twice blessed--"blessing him that gives and him that takes."

Nearly sixteen millions of hands will aid you in pulling the load upward, or they will pull
against you the load downward. We shall constitute one-third and more of the ignorance and
crime of the South, or one-third its intelligence and progress; we shall contribute one-third
to the business and industrial prosperity of the South, or we shall prove a veritable body
of death, stagnating, depressing, retarding every effort to advance the body politic.

Gentlemen of the Exposition, as we present to you our humble effort at an exhibition of our
progress, you must not expect overmuch. Starting thirty years ago with ownership here and there
in a few quilts and pumpkins and chickens (gathered from miscellaneous sources), remember the
path that has led from these to the inventions and production of agricultural implements, buggies,
steam-engines, newspapers, books, statuary, carving, paintings, the management of drug-stores
and banks, has not been trodden without contact with thorns and thistles. While we take pride
in what we exhibit as a result of our independent efforts, we do not for a moment forget that
our part in this exhibition would fall far short of your expectations but for the constant
help that has come to our education life, not only from the Southern states, but especially
from Northern philanthropists, who have made their gifts a constant stream of blessing and
encouragement.

The wisest among my race understand that the agitation of questions of social equality is the
extremest folly, and that progress in the enjoyment of all the privileges that will come to
us must be the result of severe and constant struggle rather than of artificial forcing. No
race that has anything to contribute to the markets of the world is long in any degree ostracized.
It is important and right that all privileges of the law be ours, but it is vastly more important
that we be prepared for the exercises of these privileges. The opportunity to earn a dollar
in a factory just now is worth infinitely more than the opportunity to spend a dollar in an
opera-house.

In conclusion, may I repeat that nothing in thirty years has given us more hope and encouragement,
and drawn us so near to you of the white race, as this opportunity offered by the Exposition;
and here bending, as it were, over the altar that represents the results of the struggles of
your race and mine, both starting practically empty-handed three decades ago, I pledge that
in your effort to work out the great and intricate problem which God has laid at the doors
of the South, you shall have at all times the patient, sympathetic help of my race; only let
this be constantly in mind, that, while from representations in these buildings of the product
of field, of forest, of mine, of factory, letters, and art, much good will come, yet far above
and beyond material benefits will be that higher good, that, let us pray God, will come, in
a blotting out of sectional differences and racial animosities and suspicions, in a determination
to administer absolute justice, in a willing obedience among all classes to the mandates of
law. This, this, coupled with our material prosperity, will bring into our beloved South a
new heaven and a new earth.

The first thing that I remember, after I had finished speaking, was that Governor Bullock rushed
across the platform and took me by the hand, and that others did the same. I received so many
and such hearty congratulations that I found it difficult to get out of the building. I did
not appreciate to any degree, however, the impression which my address seemed to have made,
until the next morning, when I went into the business part of the city. As soon as I was recognized,
I was surprised to find myself pointed out and surrounded by a crowd of men who wished to shake
hands with me. This was kept up on every street on to which I went, to an extent which embarrassed
me so much that I went back to my boarding-place. The next morning I returned to Tuskegee.
At the station in Atlanta, and at almost all of the stations at which the train stopped between
that city and Tuskegee, I found a crowd of people anxious to shake hands with me.

The papers in all parts of the United States published the address in full, and for months
afterward there were complimentary editorial references to it. Mr. Clark Howell, the editor
of the Atlanta Constitution, telegraphed to a New York paper, among other words, the following,
"I do not exaggerate when I say that Professor Booker T. Washington's address yesterday was
one of the most notable speeches, both as to character and as to the warmth of its reception,
ever delivered to a Southern audience. The address was a revelation. The whole speech is a
platform upon which blacks and whites can stand with full justice to each other."

The Boston Transcript said editorially: "The speech of Booker T. Washington at the Atlanta
Exposition, this week, seems to have dwarfed all the other proceedings and the Exposition itself.
The sensation that it has caused in the press has never been equalled."

I very soon began receiving all kinds of propositions from lecture bureaus, and editors of
magazines and papers, to take the lecture platform, and to write articles. One lecture bureau
offered me fifty thousand dollars, or two hundred dollars a night and expenses, if I would
place my services at its disposal for a given period. To all these communications I replied
that my life-work was at Tuskegee; and that whenever I spoke it must be in the interests of
Tuskegee school and my race, and that I would enter into no arrangements that seemed to place
a mere commercial value upon my services.

Some days after its delivery I sent a copy of my address to the President of the United States,
the Hon. Grover Cleveland. I received from him the following autograph reply:--

Gray Gables, Buzzard's Bay, Mass.,

October 6, 1895.

Booker T. Washington, Esq.:

My Dear Sir: I thank you for sending me a copy of your address delivered at the Atlanta Exposition.

I thank you with much enthusiasm for making the address. I have read it with intense interest,
and I think the Exposition would be fully justified if it did not do more than furnish the
opportunity for its delivery. Your words cannot fail to delight and encourage all who wish
well for your race; and if our coloured fellow-citizens do not from your utterances gather
new hope and form new determinations to gain every valuable advantage offered them by their
citizenship, it will be strange indeed.

Yours very truly,

Grover Cleveland.

Later I met Mr. Cleveland, for the first time, when, as President, he visited the Atlanta Exposition.
At the request of myself and others he consented to spend an hour in the Negro Building, for
the purpose of inspecting the Negro exhibit and of giving the coloured people in attendance
an opportunity to shake hands with him. As soon as I met Mr. Cleveland I became impressed with
his simplicity, greatness, and rugged honesty. I have met him many times since then, both at
public functions and at his private residence in Princeton, and the more I see of him the more
I admire him. When he visited the Negro Building in Atlanta he seemed to give himself up wholly,
for that hour, to the coloured people. He seemed to be as careful to shake hands with some
old coloured "auntie" clad partially in rags, and to take as much pleasure in doing so, as
if he were greeting some millionaire. Many of the coloured people took advantage of the occasion
to get him to write his name in a book or on a slip of paper. He was as careful and patient
in doing this as if he were putting his signature to some great state document.

Mr. Cleveland has not only shown his friendship for me in many personal ways, but has always
consented to do anything I have asked of him for our school. This he has done, whether it was
to make a personal donation or to use his influence in securing the donations of others. Judging
from my personal acquaintance with Mr. Cleveland, I do not believe that he is conscious of
possessing any colour prejudice. He is too great for that. In my contact with people I find
that, as a rule, it is only the little, narrow people who live for themselves, who never read
good books, who do not travel, who never open up their souls in a way to permit them to come
into contact with other souls--with the great outside world. No man whose vision is bounded
by colour can come into contact with what is highest and best in the world. In meeting men,
in many places, I have found that the happiest people are those who do the most for others;
the most miserable are those who do the least. I have also found that few things, if any, are
capable of making one so blind and narrow as race prejudice. I often say to our students, in
the course of my talks to them on Sunday evenings in the chapel, that the longer I live and
the more experience I have of the world, the more I am convinced that, after all, the one thing
that is most worth living for--and dying for, if need be--is the opportunity of making some
one else more happy and more useful.

The coloured people and the coloured newspapers at first seemed to be greatly pleased with
the character of my Atlanta address, as well as with its reception. But after the first burst
of enthusiasm began to die away, and the coloured people began reading the speech in cold type,
some of them seemed to feel that they had been hypnotized. They seemed to feel that I had been
too liberal in my remarks toward the Southern whites, and that I had not spoken out strongly
enough for what they termed the "rights" of my race. For a while there was a reaction, so far
as a certain element of my own race was concerned, but later these reactionary ones seemed
to have been won over to my way of believing and acting.

While speaking of changes in public sentiment, I recall that about ten years after the school
at Tuskegee was established, I had an experience that I shall never forget. Dr. Lyman Abbott,
then the pastor of Plymouth Church, and also editor of the Outlook (then the Christian Union),
asked me to write a letter for his paper giving my opinion of the exact condition, mental and
moral, of the coloured ministers in the South, as based upon my observations. I wrote the letter,
giving the exact facts as I conceived them to be. The picture painted was a rather black one--or,
since I am black, shall I say "white"? It could not be otherwise with a race but a few years
out of slavery, a race which had not had time or opportunity to produce a competent ministry.

What I said soon reached every Negro minister in the country, I think, and the letters of condemnation
which I received from them were not few. I think that for a year after the publication of this
article every association and every conference or religious body of any kind, of my race, that
met, did not fail before adjourning to pass a resolution condemning me, or calling upon me
to retract or modify what I had said. Many of these organizations went so far in their resolutions
as to advise parents to cease sending their children to Tuskegee. One association even appointed
a "missionary" whose duty it was to warn the people against sending their children to Tuskegee.
This missionary had a son in the school, and I noticed that, whatever the "missionary" might
have said or done with regard to others, he was careful not to take his son away from the institution.
Many of the coloured papers, especially those that were the organs of religious bodies, joined
in the general chorus of condemnation or demands for retraction.

During the whole time of the excitement, and through all the criticism, I did not utter a word
of explanation or retraction. I knew that I was right, and that time and the sober second thought
of the people would vindicate me. It was not long before the bishops and other church leaders
began to make careful investigation of the conditions of the ministry, and they found out that
I was right. In fact, the oldest and most influential bishop in one branch of the Methodist
Church said that my words were far too mild. Very soon public sentiment began making itself
felt, in demanding a purifying of the ministry. While this is not yet complete by any means,
I think I may say, without egotism, and I have been told by many of our most influential ministers,
that my words had much to do with starting a demand for the placing of a higher type of men
in the pulpit. I have had the satisfaction of having many who once condemned me thank me heartily
for my frank words.

The change of the attitude of the Negro ministry, so far as regards myself, is so complete
that at the present time I have no warmer friends among any class than I have among the clergymen.
The improvement in the character and life of the Negro ministers is one of the most gratifying
evidences of the progress of the race. My experience with them, as well as other events in
my life, convince me that the thing to do, when one feels sure that he has said or done the
right thing, and is condemned, is to stand still and keep quiet. If he is right, time will show it.

In the midst of the discussion which was going on concerning my Atlanta speech, I received
the letter which I give below, from Dr. Gilman, the President of Johns Hopkins University,
who had been made chairman of the judges of award in connection with the Atlanta Exposition:--

Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,

President's Office, September 30, 1895.

Dear Mr. Washington: Would it be agreeable to you to be one of the Judges of Award in the Department
of Education at Atlanta? If so, I shall be glad to place your name upon the list. A line by
telegraph will be welcomed.

Yours very truly,

D.C. Gilman

I think I was even more surprised to receive this invitation than I had been to receive the
invitation to speak at the opening of the Exposition. It was to be a part of my duty, as one
of the jurors, to pass not only upon the exhibits of the coloured schools, but also upon those
of the white schools. I accepted the position, and spent a month in Atlanta in performance
of the duties which it entailed. The board of jurors was a large one, containing in all of
sixty members. It was about equally divided between Southern white people and Northern white
people. Among them were college presidents, leading scientists and men of letters, and specialists
in many subjects. When the group of jurors to which I was assigned met for organization, Mr.
Thomas Nelson Page, who was one of the number, moved that I be made secretary of that division,
and the motion was unanimously adopted. Nearly half of our division were Southern people. In
performing my duties in the inspection of the exhibits of white schools I was in every case
treated with respect, and at the close of our labours I parted from my associates with regret.

I am often asked to express myself more freely than I do upon the political condition and the
political future of my race. These recollections of my experience in Atlanta give me the opportunity
to do so briefly. My own belief is, although I have never before said so in so many words,
that the time will come when the Negro in the South will be accorded all the political rights
which his ability, character, and material possessions entitle him to. I think, though, that
the opportunity to freely exercise such political rights will not come in any large degree
through outside or artificial forcing, but will be accorded to the Negro by the Southern white
people themselves, and that they will protect him in the exercise of those rights. Just as
soon as the South gets over the old feeling that it is being forced by "foreigners," or "aliens,"
to do something which it does not want to do, I believe that the change in the direction that
I have indicated is going to begin. In fact, there are indications that it is already beginning
in a slight degree.

Let me illustrate my meaning. Suppose that some months before the opening of the Atlanta Exposition
there had been a general demand from the press and public platform outside the South that a
Negro be given a place on the opening programme, and that a Negro be placed upon the board
of jurors of award. Would any such recognition of the race have taken place? I do not think
so. The Atlanta officials went as far as they did because they felt it to be a pleasure, as
well as a duty, to reward what they considered merit in the Negro race. Say what we will, there
is something in human nature which we cannot blot out, which makes one man, in the end, recognize
and reward merit in another, regardless of colour or race.

I believe it is the duty of the Negro--as the greater part of the race is already doing--to
deport himself modestly in regard to political claims, depending upon the slow but sure influences
that proceed from the possession of property, intelligence, and high character for the full
recognition of his political rights. I think that the according of the full exercise of political
rights is going to be a matter of natural, slow growth, not an over-night, gourd-vine affair.
I do not believe that the Negro should cease voting, for a man cannot learn the exercise of
self-government by ceasing to vote, any more than a boy can learn to swim by keeping out of
the water, but I do believe that in his voting he should more and more be influenced by those
of intelligence and character who are his next-door neighbours.

I know coloured men who, through the encouragement, help, and advice of Southern white people,
have accumulated thousands of dollars' worth of property, but who, at the same time, would
never think of going to those same persons for advice concerning the casting of their ballots.
This, it seems to me, is unwise and unreasonable, and should cease. In saying this I do not
mean that the Negro should truckle, or not vote from principle, for the instant he ceases to
vote from principle he loses the confidence and respect of the Southern white man even.

I do not believe that any state should make a law that permits an ignorant and poverty-stricken
white man to vote, and prevents a black man in the same condition from voting. Such a law is
not only unjust, but it will react, as all unjust laws do, in time; for the effect of such
a law is to encourage the Negro to secure education and property, and at the same time it encourages
the white man to remain in ignorance and poverty. I believe that in time, through the operation
of intelligence and friendly race relations, all cheating at the ballot-box in the South will
cease. It will become apparent that the white man who begins by cheating a Negro out of his
ballot soon learns to cheat a white man out of his, and that the man who does this ends his
career of dishonesty by the theft of property or by some equally serious crime. In my opinion,
the time will come when the South will encourage all of its citizens to vote. It will see that
it pays better, from every standpoint, to have healthy, vigorous life than to have that political
stagnation which always results when one-half of the population has no share and no interest
in the Government.

As a rule, I believe in universal, free suffrage, but I believe that in the South we are confronted
with peculiar conditions that justify the protection of the ballot in many of the states, for
a while at least, either by an education test, a property test, or by both combined; but whatever
tests are required, they should be made to apply with equal and exact justice to both races.

Chapter XV. The Secret Of Success In Public Speaking

As to how my address at Atlanta was received by the audience in the Exposition building, I
think I prefer to let Mr. James Creelman, the noted war correspondent, tell. Mr. Creelman was
present, and telegraphed the following account to the New York World:--

Atlanta, September 18.

While President Cleveland was waiting at Gray Gables to-day, to send the electric spark that
started the machinery of the Atlanta Exposition, a Negro Moses stood before a great audience
of white people and delivered an oration that marks a new epoch in the history of the South;
and a body of Negro troops marched in a procession with the citizen soldiery of Georgia and
Louisiana. The whole city is thrilling to-night with a realization of the extraordinary significance
of these two unprecedented events. Nothing has happened since Henry Grady's immortal speech
before the New England society in New York that indicates so profoundly the spirit of the New
South, except, perhaps, the opening of the Exposition itself.

When Professor Booker T. Washington, Principal of an industrial school for coloured people
in Tuskegee, Ala. stood on the platform of the Auditorium, with the sun shining over the heads
of his auditors into his eyes, and with his whole face lit up with the fire of prophecy, Clark
Howell, the successor of Henry Grady, said to me, "That man's speech is the beginning of a
moral revolution in America."

It is the first time that a Negro has made a speech in the South on any important occasion
before an audience composed of white men and women. It electrified the audience, and the response
was as if it had come from the throat of a whirlwind.

Mrs. Thompson had hardly taken her seat when all eyes were turned on a tall tawny Negro sitting
in the front row of the platform. It was Professor Booker T. Washington, President of the Tuskegee
(Alabama) Normal and Industrial Institute, who must rank from this time forth as the foremost
man of his race in America. Gilmore's Band played the "Star-Spangled Banner," and the audience
cheered. The tune changed to "Dixie" and the audience roared with shrill "hi-yis." Again the
music changed, this time to "Yankee Doodle," and the clamour lessened.

All this time the eyes of the thousands present looked straight at the Negro orator. A strange
thing was to happen. A black man was to speak for his people, with none to interrupt him. As
Professor Washington strode to the edge of the stage, the low, descending sun shot fiery rays
through the windows into his face. A great shout greeted him. He turned his head to avoid the
blinding light, and moved about the platform for relief. Then he turned his wonderful countenance
to the sun without a blink of the eyelids, and began to talk.

There was a remarkable figure; tall, bony, straight as a Sioux chief, high forehead, straight
nose, heavy jaws, and strong, determined mouth, with big white teeth, piercing eyes, and a
commanding manner. The sinews stood out on his bronzed neck, and his muscular right arm swung
high in the air, with a lead-pencil grasped in the clinched brown fist. His big feet were planted
squarely, with the heels together and the toes turned out. His voice range out clear and true,
and he paused impressively as he made each point. Within ten minutes the multitude was in an
uproar of enthusiasm--handkerchiefs were waved, canes were flourished, hats were tossed in
the air. The fairest women of Georgia stood up and cheered. It was as if the orator had bewitched
them.

I have heard the great orators of many countries, but not even Gladstone himself could have
pleased a cause with most consummate power than did this angular Negro, standing in a nimbus
of sunshine, surrounded by the men who once fought to keep his race in bondage. The roar might
swell ever so high, but the expression of his earnest face never changed.

A ragged, ebony giant, squatted on the floor in one of the aisles, watched the orator with
burning eyes and tremulous face until the supreme burst of applause came, and then the tears
ran down his face. Most of the Negroes in the audience were crying, perhaps without knowing
just why.

At the close of the speech Governor Bullock rushed across the stage and seized the orator's
hand. Another shout greeted this demonstration, and for a few minutes the two men stood facing
each other, hand in hand.

So far as I could spare the time from the immediate work at Tuskegee, after my Atlanta address,
I accepted some of the invitations to speak in public which came to me, especially those that
would take me into territory where I thought it would pay to plead the cause of my race, but
I always did this with the understanding that I was to be free to talk about my life-work and
the needs of my people. I also had it understood that I was not to speak in the capacity of
a professional lecturer, or for mere commercial gain.

In my efforts on the public platform I never have been able to understand why people come to
hear me speak. This question I never can rid myself of. Time and time again, as I have stood
in the street in front of a building and have seen men and women passing in large numbers into
the audience room where I was to speak, I have felt ashamed that I should be the cause of people--as
it seemed to me--wasting a valuable hour of their time. Some years ago I was to deliver an
address before a literary society in Madison, Wis. An hour before the time set for me to speak,
a fierce snow-storm began, and continued for several hours. I made up my mind that there would
be no audience, and that I should not have to speak, but, as a matter of duty, I went to the
church, and found it packed with people. The surprise gave me a shock that I did not recover
from during the whole evening.

