Of course you must make this excursion in good company, and I affirm that I was in the very
best. The company prefers, equally of course, to have its breakfast in the orchard in front
of the house; which, if the repast is good, will make it seem better still, and if it is poor,
will carry off its poorness. Clever innkeepers should always make their victims (in tolerable
weather) eat in the garden. I forget whether Ernestine's breakfast was intrinsically good or
bad, but I distinctly remember enjoying it, and making everything welcome. Everything, that
is, save the party at the other table--the Paris actresses and the American gentlemen. The
combination of these two classes of persons, individually so delightful, results in certain
phenomena which seem less in harmony with appleboughs and summer breezes than with the gas
lamps and thick perfumes of a cabinet particulier, and yet it was characteristic of this odd
mixture of things that Mlle. Ernestine, coming to chat with her customers, should bear a beautiful
infant on her arm, and smile with artless pride on being assured of its filial resemblance
to herself. She looked decidedly handsome as she caressed this startling attribute of quiet
spinsterhood.

St. Jouin is close to the sea and to the finest cliffs in the world. One of my companions,
who had laden the carriage with his painting traps, went off into a sunny meadow to take the
portrait of a windmill, and I, choosing the better portion, wandered through a little green
valley with the other. Ten minutes brought us to the edge of the cliffs, which at this point
of the coast are simply sublime. I had been thinking the white sea-walls of Etretal the finest
thing conceivable in this way, but the huge red porphoritic-looking masses of St. Jouin have
an even grander character. I have rarely seen anything more picturesque. They are strange,
fantastic, out of keeping with the country, and for some rather arbitrary reason suggested
to me a Spanish or even African landscape. Certain sun-scorched precipices in Spanish Sierras
must have very much the same warmth of tone and desolation of attitude. A very picturesque
feature of the cliffs of St. Jouin is that they are double in height, as one may say. Falling
to an immense depth, they encounter a certain outward ledge, or terrace, where they pause and
play a dozen fantastic tricks, such as piling up rocks into the likeness of needles and watch-towers;
then they plunge again, and in another splendid sweep descend to the beach. There was something
very impressive in the way their evil brows, looking as if they were all stained with blood
and rust, were bent upon the blue expanse of the sleeping sea.

III.

In a month of beautiful weather at Etretal, every day was not an excursion, but every day seemed
indeed a picked day. For that matter, as I lay on the beach watching the procession of the
easy-going hours, I took a good many mental excursions. The one, perhaps, on which I oftenest
started was a comparison between French manners, French habits, French types, and those of
my native land. These comparisons are not invidious; I don't conclude against one party and
in favor of the other; as the French say, je constate simply. The French people about me were
"spending the summer" just as I had so often seen my fellow countrymen spend it, and it seemed
to me, as it had seemed to me at home, that this operation places men and women under a sort
of monstrous magnifying glass. The human figure has a higher relief in the country than in
town, and I know of no place where psychological studies prosper so as at the seaside. I shall
not pretend to relate my observations in the order in which they occurred to me (or indeed
to relate them in full at all); but I may say that one of the foremost was to this effect--that
the summer question, for every one, had been more easily settled than it usually is at home.
The solution of the problem of where to go had not been a thin-petalled rose, plucked from
among particularly sharp-pointed thorns. People presented themselves with a calmness and freshness
very different from the haggard legacy of that fevered investigation which precedes the annual
exodus of the American citizen and his family. This impression, with me, rests perhaps on the
fact that most Frenchwomen turned of thirty--the average wives and mothers--are so comfortably
fat. I have never seen such massive feminine charms as among the mature baigneuses of Etratal.
The lean and desiccated person into whom a dozen years of matrimony so often converts the blooming
American girl has no apparent correlative in the French race. A majestic plumpness flourished
all around me--the plumpness of triple chins and deeply dimpled hands. I mused upon it, and
I concluded that it was the result of the best breakfasts and dinners in the world. It was
the corpulence of ladies who are thoroughly well fed, and who never walk a step that they can
spare. The assiduity with which the women of America measure the length of our democratic pavements
is doubtless a factor in their frequent absence of redundancy of outline. As a "regular boarder"
at the Hotel Blanquet--pronounced by Anglo-Saxon visitors Blanket--I found myself initiated
into the mysteries of the French dietary system. I assent to the common tradition that the
French are a temperate people, so long as it is understood in this sense--that they eat no
more than they want to. But they want to eat so much! Their capacity strikes me as enormous,
and we ourselves, if we are less regulated, are certainly much more slender consumers.

The American breakfast has, I believe, long been a subject of irony to the foreign observer;
but the American breakfast is an ascetic meal compared with the French déjeuner à la fourchette.
The latter, indeed, is simply a dinner without soup; it differs neither generically nor specifically
from the evening repast. If it excludes soup, it includes eggs, prepared in a hundred forms;
and if it proscribes champagne, it admits beer in foaming pitchers, so that the balance is
fairly preserved. I think it is rarely that an American will not feel a certain sympathetic
heaviness in the reflection that a French family that sits down at half past eleven to fish
and entrées and roasts, to asparagus and beans, to salad and dessert, and cheese and coffee,
proposes to do exactly the same thing at dinner time. But we may be sure at any rate that the
dinner will be as good as the breakfast, and that the breakfast has nothing to fear from prospective
comparison with the dinner; and we may further reflect that in a country where eating is a
peculiarly unalloyed pleasure it is natural that this pleasure should be prolonged and reiterated.
Nothing is more noticeable among the French than their superior intelligence in dietary matters;
every one seems naturally a judge, a dilettante. They have analyzed tastes and savors to a
finer point than we; they are aware of differences and relations of which we take no heed.
Observe a Frenchman of any age and of any station (I have been quite as much struck with it
in the very young men as in the old) as he orders his breakfast or his dinner at a Parisian
restaurant, and you will perceive that the operation is much more solemn than it is apt to
be in New York or in London. (In London, indeed, it is intellectually positively brutal.) Monsieur
has, in a word, a certain ideal for that particular repast, and it will make a difference in
his happiness whether the kidneys, for instance, of a certain style, are chopped to the ultimate
or only to the penultimate smallness. His directions and admonitions to the waiter are therefore
minute and exquisite, and eloquently accentuated by the pressure of thumb and forefinger; and
it must be added that the imagination of the waiter is usually quite worthy of the refined
communion thus opened to it.

This subtler sense of quality is observable even among those classes in which in other countries
it is generally forestalled by a depressing consciousness on the subject of quantity. Watch
your Parisian porter and his wife at their mid-day meal, as you pass up and down stairs. They
are not satisfying nature upon green tea and potatoes; they are seated before a meal which
has been reasoned out, which, on its modest scale, is served in courses, and has a beginning,
a middle, and an end. I will not say that the French sense of comfort is confined to the philosophy
of nutrition, but it is certainly higher at this point (and perhaps one other) than it is elsewhere.
French people must have a good dinner and a good bed; but they are willing that the bed should
be stationed and the dinner be eaten in the most unpleasant neighborhoods. Your porter and
his wife dine grandly and sleep soft in their lodge, but their lodge is in all probability
a fetid black hole, five feet square, in which, in England or in America, people of their talents
would never consent to live. French people consent to live in the dark, to huddle together,
to forego privacy, and to let bad smells grow great among them. They have an accursed passion
for coquettish furniture: for cold, brittle chairs, for tables with scolloped edges, for ottomans
without backs, for fireplaces muffled in plush and fringe and about as cheerful as a festooned
hearse. A French bedroom is a bitter mockery--a ghastly attempt to serve two masters which
succeeds in being agreeable to neither. It is a thing of traps and delusions, constructed on
the assumption that it is inelegant to be known to wash or to sleep, and yet pervaded with
suggestions of uncleanness compared with which a well-wrung bathing sponge, well en evidence,
is a delightful symbol of purity. This comes of course from that supreme French quality, the
source of half the charm of the French mind as well of all its dryness, the genius for economy.
It is wasting a room to let it be a bedroom alone; so it must be tricked out as an ingeniously
contrived sitting-room, and ends by being (in many cases) insufferable both by night and by
day. But allowing all weight to these latter reflections, it is still very possible that the
French have the better part. If you are well fed, you can perhaps afford to be ill lodged;
whereas, I doubt whether enjoyment of the most commodious apartments is compatible with inanition
and dyspepsia.

IV.

If I had not cut short my mild retrospect by these possibly milder generalizations, I should
have touched lightly upon some of the social phenomena of which the little beach at Etretal
was the scene. I shall have narrated that the French, at the seaside, are not "sociable" as
Americans affect to be in a similar situation, and I should subjoin that at Etretal it was
very well on the whole that they were not. The immeasurably greater simplicity of composition
of American society makes sociability with us a comparatively untaxed virtue; but anything
like an equal exercise of it in France would be attended with alarming perils and inconveniences.
Sociability (in the American sense of the word) in any aristocratic country would indeed be
very much like an attempt to establish visiting relations between birds and fishes. At Etretal
no making of acquaintance was observable; people went about in compact, cohesive groups, of
natural formation, governed doubtless, internally, by humane regulation, but presenting to
the world an impenetrable defensive front. These groups usually formed a solid phalanx about
two or three young girls, compressed into the centre, the preservation of whose innocence was
their chief solicitude. Here, doubtless, the groups were acting wisely, for with half a dozen
cocottes, in scarlet petticoats, scattered over the sunny, harmless looking beach, what were
mammas and duennas to do? In order that there should be a greater number of approachable-irreproachable
young girls in France there must first be a smaller number of cocottes. It is not impossible,
indeed, that if the approachable-irreproachable young ladies were more numerous, the cocottes
would be less numerous. If by some ingenious sumptuary enactment the latter class could be
sequestrated or relegated to the background for a certain period--say ten years--the latter
might increase and multiply, and quite, in vulgar parlance, get the start of it.

And yet after all this is a rather superficial reflection, for the excellent reason that the
very narrow peep at life allowed to young French girls is not regarded, either by the young
girls themselves or by those who have their felicity most at heart, as a grave privation. The
case is not nearly so hard as it would be with us, for there is this immense difference between
the lot of the jeune fille and her American sister, that the former may as a general thing
be said to be certain to marry. "Ay, to marry ill," the Anglo-Saxon objector may reply. But
the objection is precipitate; for if French marriages are almost always arranged, it must be
added that they are in the majority of cases arranged well. Therefore, if a jeune fille is
for three or four years tied with a very short rope and compelled to browse exclusively upon
the meagre herbage which sprouts in the maternal shadow, she has at least the comfort of reflecting
that according to the native phrase, on s'occupe de la marier--that measures are being carefully
taken to promote her to a condition of unbounded liberty. Whatever, to her imagination, marriage
may fail to mean, it at least means freedom and consideration. It does not mean, as it so often
means in America, being socially shelved--and it is not too much to say, in certain circles,
degraded; it means being socially launched and consecrated. It means becoming that exalted
personage, a mère de famille. To be a mère de famille is to occupy not simply (as is rather
the case with us) a sentimental, but a really official position. The consideration, the authority,
the domestic pomp and circumstance allotted to a French mamma are in striking contrast with
the amiable tolerance which in our own social order is so often the most liberal measure that
the female parent may venture to expect at her children's hands, and which, on the part of
the young lady of eighteen who represents the family in society, is not infrequently tempered
by a conscientious severity. All this is worth waiting for, especially if you have not to wait
very long. Mademoiselle is married certainly, and married early, and she is sufficiently well
informed to know, and to be sustained by the knowledge, that the sentimental expansion which
may not take place at present will have an open field after her marriage. That it should precede
her marriage seems to her as unnatural as that she should put on her shoes before her stockings.
And besides all this, to browse in the maternal shadow is not considered in the least a hardship.
A young French girl who is bien élevée--an expression which means so much--will be sure to
consider her mother's company the most delightful in the world, and to think that the herbage
which sprouts about this lady's petticoats is peculiarly tender and succulent. It may be fanciful,
but it often seems to me that the tone with which such a young girl says Ma mère has a peculiar
intensity of meaning. I am at least not wrong in affirming that in the accent with which the
mamma--especially if she be of the well-rounded order alluded to above--speaks of Ma fille
there is a kind of sacerdotal dignity.

V.

After this came two or three pictures of quite another complexion--pictures of which a long
green valley, almost in the centre of France, makes the general setting. The valley itself,
indeed, forms one delightful picture, although the country which surrounds it is by no means
a show region. It is the old region of the Gâtinais, which has plenty of history, but no great
beauty. It is very still, deliciously rural, and immitigably French. Normandy is Norman, Gascony
is Gascon, but this is France itself--the typical, average, "pleasant" France of history, literature,
and art--of art, of landscape art, perhaps, especially. Wherever I look in the country I seem
to see one of the familiar pictures on a dealer's wall--a Lambinet, a Troyon, a Daubigny, a
Diaz. The Lambinets perhaps are in the majority; the mood of the landscape usually expresses
itself in silvery lights and vivid greens. The history of this part of France is the history
of the monarchy, and its language is, I won't say absolutely the classic tongue, but a nearer
approach to it than any local patois. The peasants deliver themselves with rather a drawl,
but what they speak is good clean French that any cockney can understand, which is more than
can be said sometimes for the violent jargon that emanates from the fishing folk of Etretal.

Each side of the long valley is a long low ridge, which offers it a high, bosky horizon, and
through the middle of it there flows a charming stream, wandering, winding, and doubling, smothered
here and there in rocks, and spreading into lily-coated reaches, beneath the clear shadow of
tall, straight, light-leaved trees. On each side of the stream the meadows stretch away flat,
clean, and magnificent, lozenged across with rows of sober foliage under which a cow-maiden
sits on the grass hooting now and then, nasally, to the large-uddered browsers in front of
her. There are no hedges, nor palings, nor walls; it is all a single estate. Here and there
in the meadows stands a cluster of red-roofed hovels--each a diminutive village. At other points,
at about half an hour's walk apart, are three charming old houses. The châteaux are extremely
different, but, both picturesquely and conveniently, each has its points. They are very intimate
with each other, so that these points may be amicably discussed. The points in one case, however,
are remarkably strong. The château stands directly in the little river I have mentioned, on
an island just great enough to hold it, and the garden flowers grow upon the further bank.
This, of course, is a most delightful affair. But I found something very agreeable in the aspect
of one of the others, when I made it the goal of certain of those walks before breakfast which
of cool mornings in the late summer do not fall into the category of ascetic pleasures. (In
France, indeed, if one did not do a great many things before breakfast, the work of life would
be but meagerly performed.)

The dwelling in question stands on the top of the long ridge which encloses the comfortable
valley to the south, being by its position quite in the midst of its appurtenant acres. It
is not particularly "kept up," but its quiet rustiness and untrimmedness only help it to be
picturesque. A grassy plateau approaches it from the edge of the hill, bordered on one side
by a short avenue of horse-chestnuts, and on the other by a dusky wood. Beyond the chestnuts
are the steep-roofed, yellow-walled farm buildings, and under cover of the wood a stretch of
beaten turf, where, on Sundays and holidays, the farm-servants play at bowls. Directly before
the château is a little square garden enclosed by a low stone parapet, interrupted by a high
gateway of mossy pillars and iron arabesques, the whole of it overclambered by flowering vines.
The house, with its yellow walls and russet roof, is ample and substantial; it is a very proper
gentilhommière. In a corner of the garden, at the angle of the parapet, rises that classic
emblem of rural gentility, the pigeonnier, the old stone dovecote. It is a great round tower,
as broad of base as a lighthouse, with its roof shaped like an extinguisher, and a big hole
in its upper portion, in and out of which a dove is always fluttering.

You see all this from the windows of the drawing-room. Be sure that the drawing-room is pannelled
in white and gray, with old rococo moulding over the doorways and mantlepiece. The open garden
gateway, with its tangled vines, makes a frame for the picture that lies beyond the little
grassy esplanade where the thistles have been suffered to grow around a disused stone well,
placed at quaint remoteness from the house (if, indeed, it is not a relic of an earlier habitation),
a picture of a wide green country rising beyond the unseen valley, and stretching away to a
far horizon in deep blue lines of wood. Behind, through other windows, you look out on the
gardens proper. There are places that take one's fancy by some accident of expression, by some
mystery of accident. This one is high and breezy, both sunny and shady, plain yet picturesque,
extremely cheerful, and a little melancholy. It has what in the arts is called "style," and
so it took mine.

Going to call on the peasants was as charming an affair as a chapter in one of George Sand's
rural tales. I went one Sunday morning with my hostess, who knew them well and engaged their
most garrulous confidence. I don't mean that they told her all their secrets, but they told
her a good many; if the French peasant is a simpleton, he is a very shrewd simpleton. At any
rate, of a Sunday morning in August, when he is stopping at home from work, and he has put
on his best jacket and trowsers, and is loafing at the door of his neighbor's cabin, he is
a very charming person. The peasantry in the region I speak of had admirably good manners.
The curé gave me a low account of their morals; by which he meant, on the whole, I suspect,
that they were moderate church-goers. But they have the instinct of civility and a talent for
conversation; they know how to play the host and the entertainer. By "he," just now, I meant
she quite as much; it is rare that, in speaking superlatively of the French, in any connection,
one does not think of the women even more than of the men. They constantly strike the foreigner
as a stronger expression of the qualities of the race. On the occasion I speak of the first
room in the very humble cabins I successively visited--in some cases, evidently, it was the
only room--had been set into irreproachable order for the day. It had usually a sort of brown-toned
picturesqueness, begotten of the high chimney-place, with its swinging pots, the important
bed, in its dusky niche, with its flowered curtains, the big-bellied earthenware on the cupboard,
the long-legged clock in the corner, the thick, quiet light of the small, deeply-set window;
the mixture, on all things, of smoke-stain and the polish of horny hands. Into the midst of
this "la Rabillon" or "la Mère Léger" brings forward her chairs and begs us to be seated, and
seating herself, with crossed hands, smiles handsomely and answers abundantly all questions
about her cow, her husband, her bees, her eggs, and her last-born. The men linger half outside
and half in, with their shoulders against dressers and door-posts; every one smiles, with that
simple, clear-eyed smile of the gratified peasant; they talk much more like George Sand's Berrichons
than might be supposed. And if they receive us without gross awkwardness, they speed us on
our way with proportionate urbanity. I go to six or eight little hovels, all of them dirty
outside and clean within; I am entertained everywhere with the bonhomie, the quaintness, the
good faces and good manners of their occupants, and I finish my tour with an esteem for my
new acquaintance which is not diminished by learning that several of them have thirty or forty
thousand francs securely laid by.

And yet, as I say, M. le Curé thinks they are in a bad way, and he knows something about them.
M. le Curé, too, is not a dealer in scandal; there is something delightfully quaint in the
way in which he deprecates an un-Christian construction of his words. There is more than one
curé in the valley whose charms I celebrate; but the worthy priest of whom I speak is the pearl
of the local priesthood. He has been accused, I believe, of pretentions to what is called illuminisme;
but even in his most illuminated moments it can never occur to him that he has been chronicled
in an American magazine, and therefore it is not indiscreet to say that he is the curé, not
of Gy, but of the village nearest to Gy. I write this sentence half for the pleasure of putting
down that briefest of village names and seeing how it looks in print. But it may be elongated
at will, and yet be only improved. If you wish to be very specific, you may call it Gy-les-Nonnains--Gy
of the Little Nuns. I went with my hostess, another morning, to call upon M. le Curé, who himself
opened his garden door to us (there was a crooked little black cross perched upon it), and,
lifting his rusty calotte, stood there a moment in the sunshine, smiling a greeting more benignant
than words.

A rural presbytère is not a very sumptuous dwelling, and M. le Curé's little drawing room reminded
me of a Yankee parlor (minus the subscription books from Hartford, on the centre-table) in
some out-of-the-way corner of New England. But he took us into his very diminutive garden,
and showed us an ornament that would not have flourished in the shade of a Yankee parlor--a
rude stone image of the Virgin, which he had become possessed of I know not how, and for which
he was building a sort of niche in the wall. The work was going on slowly, for he must take
the labor as he could get it; but he appealed to his visitors, with a smile of indulgent irony,
for an assurance that his little structure would not make too bad a figure. One of them told
him that she would send him some white flowers to set out round his statue; whereupon he clasped
his hands together over his snuff-box and expressed cheerful views of the world we live in.
A couple of days afterward he came to breakfast, and, of course, he arrived early, in his new
cassock and band. I found him in the billiard-room, walking up and down alone, and reading
his breviary. The combination of the locality, the personage, and the occupation made me smile;
and I smiled again when, after breakfast, I found him walking up and down the garden, puffing
a cigarette. Of course he had an excellent appetite; but there is something rather cruel in
those alternations of diet to which the French parish priest is subjected. At home he lives
like a peasant--a fact which, in itself, is not particularly cruel, inasmuch as he is usually
a peasant born. But his fellow peasants don't breakfast at the château and gaze adown the savory
vistas opened by cutlets à la Soubise. They have not the acute pain of being turned back into
the stale atmosphere of bread and beans. Of course it is by no means every day or every week
even that M. le Curé breakfasts at the château; but there must nevertheless be a certain uncomfortable
crookedness in his position. He lives like a laborer, and yet he is treated like a gentleman.
The latter character must seem to him sometimes a rather heavy irony on the other. But to the
ideal curé, of course, all characters are equal; he thinks neither too ill of his bad breakfasts,
nor too well of his good ones. I won't say that the excellent man I speak of is the ideal curé,
but I suspect he is an approach to it; he has a grain of epicureanism to an ounce of stoicism.
In the garden path, beside the moat, while he puffed his cigarette, he told me how he had held
up his head to the Prussians; for, hard as it seemed to believe it, that pastoral valley had
been occupied by ravaging Teutons. According to this recital, he had spoken his mind civilly,
but most distinctly, to the group of officers who had made themselves at home in his dwelling--had
informed them that it grieved him profoundly that he was obliged to meet them standing there
in his cassock, and not out in the fields with a musket in his hands and a dozen congenial
spirits at his side. The scene must have been picturesque. The first of the officers got up
from table and asked for the privilege of shaking his hand. "M. le Curé," he said, "j'estime
hautement votre caractère."

Six miles away--or nearer, by a charming shaded walk along a canal--was an ancient town with
a legend--a legend which, as a child, I read in my lesson-book at school, marvelling at the
wood-cut above it, in which a ferocious dog was tearing a strange man to pieces, while the
king and his courtiers sat by as if they were at the circus. I allude to it chiefly in order
to mention the name of one of its promenades, which is the stateliest, beyond all comparison,
in the world; the name, I mean, not the street. The latter is called Les Belles Manières. Could
anything be finer than that? With what a sweep gentlemen must once have taken off their hats
there; how ladies must once have curtsied, regardless of gutters, and how people must have
turned up their toes as they walked!

VI.

My next impressions were gathered on the margin of a southern sea--if the Bay of Biscay indeed
deserves so soft-sounding a name. We generally have a mental image beforehand of a place we
think of going to, and I supposed I had a tolerably vivid prevision of Biarritz. I don't know
why, but I had a singular sense of having been there; the name always seemed to me expressive.
I saw the way it lay along its gleaming beach; I had taken in imagination the long walks toward
Spain over the low cliffs, with the blue sea always to my right, and the blue Pyrenees always
before me. My only fear was that my mental picture was not brilliant enough; but this could
easily be touched up on the spot. In truth, however, I was exclusively occupied in toning it
down. Biarritz seemed to be decidedly below its reputation; I am at a loss to see how its reputation
was made. There is a partial explanation that is obvious enough. There is a low, square, bare
brick mansion seated on the sands, under shelter of a cliff; it is one of the first objects
to attract the attention of an arriving stranger. It is not picturesque, it is not romantic,
and even in the days of its prosperity it never can have been impressive. It is called the
Villa Eugénie, and it explains in a great measure, as I say, the Biarritz which the arriving
stranger, with some dismay, perceives about him. It has the aspect of one of the "cottages"
of Newport during the winter season, and is surrounded by an even scantier umbrage than usually
flourishes in the vicinity of those establishments. It was what the newspapers call the "favorite
resort" of the ex-Empress of the French, who might have been seen at her imperial avocations
with a good glass at any time from the Casino. The Casino, I hasten to add, has quite the air
of an establishment frequented by gentlemen who look on ladies' windows with telescopes. There
are Casinos and Casinos, and that of Biarritz is, in the summary French phrase, "impossible."
Except for its view, it is moreover very unattractive. Perched on the top of a cliff which
has just space enough to hold its immense brick foundations, it has no garden, no promenade,
no shade, no place of out-of-door reunion--the most indispensable feature of a Casino. It turns
its back to the Pyrenees and to Spain, and looks out prettily enough over a blue ocean to an
arm of the low French coast.

Biarritz, for the rest, scrambles over two or three steep hills, directly above the sea, in
a promiscuous, many-colored, noisy fashion. It is a watering-place, pure and simple; every
house has an expensive little shop in the basement, and a still more expensive set of rooms
to let above stairs. The houses are blue, and pink, and green; they stick to the hillsides
as they can, and being near Spain, you try to fancy they look Spanish. You succeed perhaps,
even a little, and are rewarded for your zeal by finding, when you cross the border a few days
afterward, that the houses at San Sebastian look strikingly French. Biarritz is bright, crowded,
irregular, filled with many sounds, and not without a certain second-rate picturesqueness;
but it struck me as common and cocknified, and my vision travelled back to modest little Etretal,
by its northern sea, as to a more truly delectable resting-place. The southwestern coast of
France has little of the exquisite charm of the Mediterranean shore. It has of course a southern
expression which in itself is always delightful. You see a brilliant, yellow sun, with a pink-faced,
red-tiled house staring up at it. You can see here and there a trellis and an orange tree,
a peasant woman in gold necklace, driving a donkey, a lame beggar adorned with ear-rings, a
glimpse of blue sea between white garden walls. But the superabundant detail of the French
Riviera is wanting; the softness, luxuriousness, enchantment.

The most picturesque thing at Biarritz is the Basque population, which overflows from the adjacent
Spanish provinces and swarms in the crooked streets. It lounges all day in the public places,
sprawls upon the curbstones, clings to the face of the cliffs, and vociferates continually
in a shrill, strange tongue, which has no discoverable affinity with any other. The Basques
look like the hardier and thriftier Neapolitan lazzaroni; if the superficial resemblance is
striking, the difference is very much in their favor. Although those specimens which I observed
at Biarritz appeared to enjoy an excess of leisure, they had nothing of a shiftless or beggarly
air, and seemed as little disposed to ask favors as to confer them. The roads leading into
Spain were dotted with them, and here they were coming and going as if on important business--the
business of the abominable Don Carlos himself. They struck me as a very handsome race. The
men are invariably clean shaved; smooth chins seem a positively religious observance. They
wear little round, maroon-colored caps, like those of sailor-boys, dark stuff shirts, and curious
white shoes, made of strips of rope laid together--an article of toilet which makes them look
like honorary members of base-ball clubs. They sling their jackets, cavalier fashion, over
one shoulder, hold their heads very high, swing their arms very bravely, step out very lightly,
and when you meet them in the country at eventide, charging down a hillside in companies of
half a dozen, make altogether a most impressive appearance. With their smooth chins and childish
caps, they may be taken, in the distance, for a lot of very naughty little boys. They have
always a cigarette in their teeth.

The best thing at Biarritz is your opportunity for driving over into Spain. Coming speedily
to a consciousness of this fact, I found a charm in sitting in a landau and rolling away to
San Sebastian, behind a driver in a high glazed hat with long streamers, a jacket of scarlet
and silver, and a pair of yellow breeches and of jack-boots. If it has been the desire of one's
heart and the dream of one's life to visit the land of Cervantes, even grazing it so lightly
as by a day's excursion from Biarritz is a matter to set one romancing. Everything helping--the
admirable scenery, the charming day, my operatic coachman, and smooth-rolling carriage--I am
afraid I romanced more than it is decent to tell of. You face toward the beautifully outlined
mass of the Pyrenees, as if you were going to plunge straight into them, but in reality you
travel beneath them and beside them; you pass between their expiring spurs and the sea. It
is on proceeding beyond San Sebastian that you seriously attack them. But they are already
extremely picturesque--none the less so that in this region they abound in suggestion of the
recent Carlist war. Their far-away peaks and ridges are crowned with lonely Spanish watch-towers
and their lower slopes are dotted with demolished dwellings. It was hereabouts that the fighting
was most constant. But the healing powers of nature are as remarkable as the destructive powers
of man, and the rich September landscape appeared already to have forgotten the injuries of
yesterday. Everything seemed to me a savory foretaste of Spain. I discovered an unconscionable
amount of local color. I discovered it at St. Jean de Luz, the last French town, in a great
brown church, filled with galleries and boxes, like a playhouse--the altar and chair, indeed,
looked very much like a proscenium; at Bohebia, on the Bidassoa, the small yellow stream which
divides France from Spain, and which at this point offers to view the celebrated Isle of Pheasants,
a little bushy strip of earth adorned with a decayed commemorative monument, on which, in the
seventeenth century, the affairs of Louis XIV. and his brother monarch were discussed in ornamental
conference; at Fuentarabia (glorious name), a mouldering relic of Spanish stateliness; at Hondaye,
at Irun, at Renteria, and finally at San Sebastian. At all of these wayside towns the houses
show marks of Alphonsist bullets (the region was strongly Carlist); but to be riddled and battered
seems to carry out the meaning of the pompous old escutcheons carven above the doorways, some
of them covering almost half the house. It seemed to me, in fact, that the narrower and shabbier
was the poor little dusky dwelling, the grander and more elaborate was this noble advertisement.
But it stood for knightly prowess, and pitiless Time had taken up the challenge. I found it
fine work to rumble through the narrow single street of Irun and Renteria, between the strange-colored
houses, the striped awnings, the universal balconies, and the heraldic doorways.

San Sebastian is a lively watering-place, and is set down in the guidebooks as the Biarritz
or the Brighton of Spain. It has of course a new quarter in the provincial-elegant style (fresh
stucco cafés, barber shops, and apartments to let), looking out upon a planted promenade and
a charming bay, locked in fortified heights, with a narrow portal to the ocean. I walked about
for two or three hours, and devoted most of my attention to the old quarter, the town proper,
which has a great frowning gate upon the harbor, through which you look along a vista of gaudy
house fronts, balconies, and awnings, surmounted by a narrow strip of sky. Here the local color
was richer, the manners more naïf. Here too was a church with a flamboyant Jesuit façade and
an interior redolent of Spanish Catholicism. There was a life-sized effigy of the Virgin perched
upon a table beside the great altar (she appeared to have been walking abroad in a procession),
whom I looked at with extreme interest. She seemed to me a heroine, a solid Spanish person,
as perfect a reality as Don Quixote or St. Theresa. She was dressed in an extraordinary splendor
of laces, brocades, and jewels, her coiffure and complexion were of the finest, and she evidently
would answer to her name if you spoke to her. Improving the stateliest title I could think
of, I addressed her as Doña Maria of the Holy Office; whereupon she looked round the great
dusky, perfumed church, to see whether we were alone, and then she dropped her fringed eyelids
and held out her hand to be kissed. She was the Sentiment of Spanish Catholicism: gloomy, yet
bedizened, emotional as a woman, and yet mechanical as a doll. After a moment I grew afraid
of her, and went slinking away. After this I didn't really recover my spirits until I had the
satisfaction of hearing myself addressed as "Cabellero." I was hailed with this epithet by
a ragged infant, with sickly eyes and a cigarette in his lips, who invited me to cast a copper
into the sea, that he might dive for it; and even with these limitations, the sensation seemed
worth the cost of my excursion. It appeared kinder, to my gratitude, to make the infant dive
upon the pavement.

A few days later I went back to San Sebastian, to witness a bull fight; but I suppose my right
to descant upon this entertainment should be measured less by the gratification it afforded
me than by the question whether there is room in literature for another bull fight. I incline
to think there is not; the Spanish diversion is the best described thing in the world. Besides,
there are other reasons for not describing it. It is extremely disgusting, and one should not
describe disgusting things--except (according to the new school) in novels, when they have
not really occurred, and are manufactured on purpose. But one has taken a certain sort of pleasure
in the bull fight, and yet how is one to state gracefully that one has taken pleasure in a
disgusting thing? It is a hard case. If you record your pleasure, distinctly, you seem to exaggerate
it and to calumniate your delicacy; and if you record nothing but your displeasure, you feel
rather crabbed and stingy. This much I can say, at any rate, that as there had been no bull
fights in that part of the country during the Carlist war, the native dilettanti (and every
man, woman, and child of them comes under this denomination) returned to their previous pastime
with peculiar zest. The spectacle, therefore, had an unusual splendor. Under these circumstances
it is highly picturesque. The weather was beautiful; the near mountains peeped over the top
of the vast open arena, as if they too were curious; weary of disembowelled horses and posturing
espadas, the spectator (in the boxes) might turn away and look through an unglazed window at
the empty town and the cloud-shadowed sea. But few of the native spectators availed themselves
of this privilege. Beside me sat a blooming matron, in a white lace mantilla, with three very
juvenile daughters; and if these ladies sometimes yawned, they never shivered. For myself,
I confess that if I sometimes shivered, I never yawned. A long list of bulls was sacrificed,
each of whom had pretentions to originality. The banderillos, in their silk stockings and embroidered
satin costumes, skipped about with a great deal of elegance; the espada folded his arms, within
six inches of the bull's nose, and stared him out of countenance; but I thought the bull, in
any case, a finer fellow than any of his tormentors, and I thought his tormentors finer fellows
than the spectators. In truth, we were all, for the time, rather sorry fellows together. A
bull fight will, to a certain extent, bear looking at, but it will not bear thinking of. There
was a more innocent picturesqueness in what I saw afterward, when we all came away, in the
late afternoon, as the shadows were at their longest: the bright-colored southern crowd, spreading
itself over the grass, and the women, with mantillas and fans, strolling up along before the
mountains and the sea.

                                        HENRY JAMES, JR.

THE BALLAD OF CONSTANCE.

                   I.

   With diamond dew the grass was wet,
     T'was in the spring, and gentlest weather,
   And all the birds of morning met,
     And carolled in her heart together.

                  II.

   The wind blew softly o'er the land,
     And softly kissed the joyous ocean:
   He walked beside her, on the sand,
     And gave and won a heart's devotion.

                 III.

   The thistledown was in the breeze,
     With birds of passage homeward flying:
   His fortune called him o'er the seas,
     And on the shore he left her sighing.

                  IV.

   She saw his barque glide down the bay--
     Through tears and fears she could not banish;
   She saw his white sails melt away;
     She saw them fade; she saw them vanish.

                   V.

   And "Go," she said; "for winds are fair,
     And love and blessing round you hover:
   When you sail backward through the air,
     Then I will trust the word of lover."

                  VI.

   Still ebbed, still flowed the tide of years,
     Now chilled with snows, now bright with roses,
   And many smiles were turned to tears,
     And sombre morns to radiant closes.

                 VII.

   And many ships came gliding by,
     With many a golden promise freighted:
   But nevermore from sea or sky
     Came love to bless her heart that waited.

                 VII.

   Yet on, by tender patience led,
     Her sacred footsteps walked unbidden,
   Wherever sorrow bows its head,
     Or want and care and shame are hidden.

                  IX.

                   X.

   Till once, at shut of autumn day,
     In marble chill she paused and harkened,
   With startled gaze where far away
     The waste of sky and ocean darkened.

                  XI.

   There, for a moment, faint and wan,
     High up in air, and landward striving,
   Stern-fore a spectral barque came on,
     Across the purple sunset driving.

                 XII.

   Then something out of night she knew,
     Some whisper heard, from heaven descended,
   And peacefully as falls the dew
     Her long and lonely vigil ended.

                XIII.

   The violet and the bramble-rose
     Make glad the grass that dreams above her;
   And freed from time and all its woes,
     She trusts again the word of lover.

                                        WILLIAM WINTER.

THE HEARTBREAK CAMEO.

                                        LIZZIE W. CHAMPNEY.

MONSIEUR DELILLE.

NOTE-BOOK OF A SECRETARY OF LEGATION.

The newspapers of Berlin announced the arrival of a superior artist, the celebrated M. Delille
of the Théâtre Français de Paris, where he had played first parts. Born and bred in the French
metropolis, it was believed he would not only open new sources of amusement to the public,
but add elegance to the French even of the highest regions. Everybody was talking of him. His
acquisition, rendered possible only by a différend with the Paris manager, was a triumph for
Berlin. I was quite curious to see him.

One day I stepped into Rey's perfumery shop to buy some cologne water. The rooms were crowded
with fashionable ladies looking over the glittering and fragrant assortment of savons de toilette,
pâtes d'amandes, huiles essentielles, eaux de vie aromatisées, etc. While making my purchase,
a very handsome fellow came in who excited unusual attention. His toilette recherchée, his
noble but modest air made one look at him again and again. He spoke with Rey in a voice so
harmonious and in such French as one does not hear every day even in Paris. I heard a lady
whisper to another: "Ah, voilà qui est parlez Français (that is the way to speak French)."
The stranger was certainly somebody, or so many furtive glances would not have been cast at
him. I might, by inquiry, easily have ascertained who he was, but I found a kind of pleasure
in prolonging my curiosity. The Emperor Nicholas of Russia was daily expected. He was supposed
to be the handsomest man in the world. But he was six feet two, taller than this person. The
Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin had arrived the previous afternoon; but, it seemed to me,
no German could speak French with just that modulation. The Prince de Joinville was expected.
Perhaps it was he.

"Will you kindly give yourself the trouble to send the box to M. Delille, Friedrich strasse 30?"

Ah ha! Le voilà! There was my man. Strange I had not thought of him.

I had a season ticket at the French theatre for the purpose of learning French, and I had been
as much entertained as instructed (I mean instructed in the language). Every one knows a Frenchman
can infuse airy elegance into a button, bestow a marketable value upon a straw, breathe esprit
into a feather, and make ten dishes out of a nettle-top. So the poet can transform any incident
into an attractive vaudeville. The tender situation dramatique, the humorous coup de théâtre,
the jeu d'esprit sparkling up into music, the elevated sentiment, the merciless exposure of
vice and folly, the purest and noblest morality, largely mixed with an ostentatious ridicule
of every sacred truth, and an absolute disregard of every principle of decency and duty, give
strange glimpses into French social life.

As a school for the French student, however, the theatre is a useful institution. For French
has got to be learned somehow or other. A dancing master of my acquaintance used always to
commence his course by a short address to his class in which he remarked: "Mesdemoiselles!
La chose la plus importante du monde c'est la danse!" (the most important thing in the world
is dancing.) Perhaps he was right. In that case I must add that the next most important thing
in the world is the French language; at least to a foreigner on the continent of Europe. Without
that you do not know anything. You are a straw man. You are a deaf and dumb creature. Ladies
gaze at you with compassion, gentlemen with contempt, children with wonder, while waiters quiz
you, cheat you, and make the imaginary mill behind your back.

Impressed with the inconvenience of this position, I had long ago commenced a siege of the
French language. I studied it a fond. I looked into every y and en. I had attended the French
theatre as a school, and profited by the performances. The company was excellent, particularly
one young girl, Mlle. Fontaine. Her playing was unsurpassable. She knew always when to go on
and when to stop. Perfect simplicity, a taste never at fault, delightful humor, a high tragic
power; to these add a lovely face, a beautiful form, grace in every movement, a voice just
as sweet as a voice could be, and you have a dim idea of Mlle. Fontaine. In her private life,
moreover, she enjoyed the reputation of being without reproach. The whole world repeated of
her the old saying: "Elle n'a qu'un défaut, celui de mettre de l'esprit partout!" (She has
but one fault: she touches nothing without importing to it a charm of her own.)

When M. Delille came out, Mlle. Fontaine and he generally played together, amid thundering
plaudits of overflowing audiences. Delille himself was a perfect artist. The French theatre
was in its glory.

One morning, hard at work in my office, I was surprised by a card, "Monsieur Delille, du Théâtre
Français." The gentleman wished to have the honor of a few moments' conversation.

The theatre and all the various personages of its imaginary world were so completely apart
from my real life, that I could scarcely have been more surprised at receiving a card from
Louis XIV., or hearing that the General Napoleon Bonaparte was waiting at the door, and desired
the honor of my acquaintance.

M. Delille entered, hat in hand, with bow and smile, as I had so often seen him do in the theatre
drawing-rooms. We had a pleasant chat. He spoke no English, which forced upon me the necessity
of exhibiting my dazzling French. He complimented me upon it. I told him it was principally
owing to himself and to Mlle. Fontaine. This brought out the object of his visit. He was going
to be married. He had been in America, which emboldened him to consider himself in some sort
my countryman, and to request the honor of my presence at the ceremony.

"And the lady?"

"Monsieur," he said, "peut-on douter? (can you doubt?) Mlle. Fontaine! You are to come to the
French church at 3. You will, then, will you not, do us the honor to dine at our lodgings,
Friedrich strasse, No. 30?"

I returned his own answer:

"Monsieur, peut-on douter?"

At the hour appointed I was at the church. I found quite an assembly--artists, painters, sculptors,
actors, critics, poets, newspaper writers, several members of the corps diplomatique, some
officers, a few gentlemen of the court, etc.

The bride and groom appeared very simply attired. Their deportment was perfect. The ceremony
was impressive. In a short time the holy bands had made them one. There was no acting about
either of them. M. Delille was pale; Mademoiselle still paler. Their emotion was obviously
genuine. Some folks think when actors tremble or shed tears, it must be only acting; and that
they can get married or die as easily in the world as on the stage. This is a mistake. Getting
really married is as serious a step to them as to you; and they know that real dying is a very
different thing from those exits which they make at the end of the tragedy. They struggle with
life, and walk forward toward death just as do their fellow-creatures, who preach from the
pulpit, speak in the Senate, or congregate on the exchange. The rich banker; the self-important
diplomat; the general, covered with orders; the minister, who holds the helm of state; the
emperor, the queen, who deign to honor the representation with their presence, smile when they
behold themselves reflected on the stage. But there is not so much difference, as they are
pleased to suppose, between themselves and their theatre colleagues. Shakespeare says:

             All the world's a stage,
   And all the men and women merely players.

The question is, which of these men and women are the best? Perhaps the theatre statesman would
have administered the affairs of his country with more wisdom; the dramatic banker would have
made his money more honestly and used it with greater discretion; the stage general would have
conducted the war with more humanity and success; and the senators, in "Julius Cæsar" and "Damon
and Pythias," would have been less open to bribery and corruption than the gentlemen who have
really occupied similar positions in the world. Perhaps, if M. Delille had been Admiral Blank,
he would have looked at his chart, and not run his ship upon that rock in the Mediterranean
on a clear summer morning. Perhaps, if Mme. Delille had been Empress of France, she would not
have striven quite so hard to bring on the last war with Prussia.

From the church to the lodgings of Monsieur and Madame Delille. On passing through the entrance,
in Berlin generally a way for horses and carriages, you would scarcely expect such elegant
apartments. The moment you crossed the threshold you were in another world. Everything rich,
tasteful, new; the walls superbly papered; the woodwork painted like snow and varnished like
a mirror: Brussels carpet, then not over-common in the richest houses; lounges, chaises longues,
sofas, divans; a strong smell of Russia binding from splendid volumes on the table, and gleaming
from mahogany book-cases; beautiful paintings and engravings; a lavish display of clocks on
tables and writing-desks; one, looking down from a loftier pedestal, clicked audibly the seconds
and struck the quarters with a solemn sound, like the booming of some far-off old cathedral
bell hanging in the clouds. Everything told of the new married man: everything new, bright,
unexceptionable, faultless, perfect--like the new wife, the new husband, the new affection,
the new hopes, yet unexposed to the wear and tear of years.

I was among the first. My host and hostess awaited their guests. Mademoiselle--I beg her pardon--madame
received me with graceful cordiality. The company immediately began to appear, principally
performers whose faces I had never seen before, except on the stage, associated with incidents,
words, actions, intrigues, and scenes of the poet's imagination. I enjoyed as if I had been
a boy, recognizing the various characters whose pranks, joys, and sorrows I had followed with
so much interest: the wicked "jeune homme à la mode," the bewitching "femme de chambre," the
vieux "général sous l'empire," the rich banquier de Paris, the handsome, dangerous guardien,
the naughty husband who had exclaimed, "Ciel ma femme!" the jealous lover, the hard-hearted
landlord, and the comique of the troupe, upon whose mobile face I could scarcely look without
laughing when he asked me: "Voulez-vous bien avoir la bonté de passer le sel?" There were present
several from the court: the Marquis de B----, who in private theatricals at the King's had
distinguished himself; M. le Comte de S----, supposed to be a little impressionné by Mlle.
Zoé, the last successful débutante, and now among the guests.

Mme. Delille looked like a lady born, and did the honors of her house like one. The servant
announced the dinner, and we adjourned to the dining-room.

The dinner was on ne peut pas mieux. I sat between the lady of the house and Mlle. Zoé. One
of the French arts is that of placing people at ease in society. It is not uncommon to meet
persons not wanting in intelligence, yet who, unless you draw them out, will simply remain
in the whole evening. My charming neighbors drew me out immediately. They possessed a magnetism
which made talking, and in one's best style, as easy as flying to a bird. Mlle. Zoé said a
great many brilliant and surprising things; but Mme. Delille's manners and conversation were
far superior. I found in her a thoughtful, cultivated, balanced mind, inspiring genuine esteem.
I was struck by her views of political events and characters. She touched lightly and skilfully
upon various personages with wisdom and humor, but with charity. She referred to her own position
in life as an actress in a way which interested me extremely, and she found opportunity amid
the miscellaneous conversation to relate her history, and how she came to adopt a profession
contrary to her taste; and a more touching story I never heard. The conversation even ascended
to higher subjects. I was not a little astonished to find in a young and universally flattered
French actress a noble-minded, superior woman, who had suffered deeply, and thought seriously
and spiritually upon subjects generally considered irreconcileable with her profession.

The dinner was finished; the nuts and the jokes were cracked; the café, the chasse-café, the
enigmas, the conundrums, the anecdotes, the songs, the tableaux-vivants followed each other.
My amiable hostess seemed to think I must have had enough of it, and, with her graceful acquiescence,
I stole out after a confidential pantomimic leave-taking with her and my host.

I became subsequently well acquainted with Monsieur and Madame Delille, and have seldom known
more interesting persons. Occasionally they invited me to a quiet family dinner, where I always
met one or two distinguished guests; and sometimes I had the pleasure of having them at my
house in a quiet way. They both rose more and more in my esteem the more I observed their inner
life and character. As years rolled on, my visits were enlivened by the sight of small drums,
trumpets, horses with their tails pulled out, and dolls with their noses knocked off. Sometimes
very pretty little cherubs peeped in at the door, or were invited for half an hour to the dinner
table.

The world went on with its ways. More than one throne was vacated and filled anew. Great knotty
questions of diplomacy rose and disappeared. Mehemet Ali, M. Thiers, the King of Hanover, Metternich,
the Chartist, the anti-corn law league, Sir Robert and Mr. Cobden filled the newspapers. Nations
growled at each other like bulldogs, and we had wars and rumors of wars a plenty.

One day who should come in but Monsieur and Madame Delille, the very picture of a perfectly
happy man and wife. They came to bid me good-by. He had made his fortune, wound up his affairs
with the theatre, and abandoned his profession for ever. Madame was at the summit of earthly
felicity. She spoke with inexpressible delight of the change in her life. She had longed so
often to quit the theatre, and now at last her dream was realized. M. Delille was going to
buy a cottage in the south of France, and to be perfectly happy with his dear wife and four
children. Amid oranges, lemons, and grapes, beneath the blue summer sky, surrounded by flowers,
the waves of the beautiful Mediterranean breaking at his feet, he intended to pass the rest
of his days in unclouded peace and joy. He had worked all his life, and now he was going to
take his reward.

"But," said I, "did you say four children?"

"Mais oui! I have four.

"Why, it seems but yesterday that----"

"Comptez donc! Six years and six months."

His picture of future felicity was very bright. I thought in my heart that such plans of retirement
were--but I suppressed my sermon and congratulated him upon his prospects. Why should I disturb
his happiness even though it might be a dream? What but a dream would have been even the realization
of all his hopes?

We parted after embracing like old friends. I had more respect for those two than I had for
a great many whose sonorous titles did not cover qualities half so estimable, manners half
so agreeable, characters half so pure, or a sense of religion half so true and deep.

The French theatre declined after the departure of Monsieur and Madame Delille. I had entirely
ceased attending or taking any interest in it.

Two years passed, when one day, in a lonely part of the Thiergarten, I met--whom do you think?
M. Delille; but pale, sad, solitary, subdued.

"Well, here I am again," said he. "All my fine dreams have disappeared. I won't bore you with
the story. The fact is--that is to say--one can never count upon one's plans in this world.
I have lost my fortune, and accepted an invitation to become director of the Berlin French
theatre. I am to form a new company. There is a great opposition to this, and the matter has
raised up against me furious enemies. They accuse me of everything base. You know me. You know
I would not be guilty of anything dishonorable."

I looked into his sad, ingenuous face, and replied:

"I am sure you would not."

"Oh, I thank you. But the worst remains to be told. My wife--my poor, dear wife--who had been
my consolation in all this trouble! Pauvre Marie! she is very ill, and I was obliged to leave
her in Paris, or to lose all our prospects. She would have it so. This annoys me. This makes
me unhappy. With her I am proof against all troubles. Ah, monsieur, you do not know my Marie.
The most faithful, the most gentle, the purest, the----"

"But is she so dangerously ill?"

"I hope not. I think not. She will be here in a few weeks. The doctor has given me his word
of honor."

A couple of months more. A series of articles, in the mean time, appeared in the newspapers
against M. Delille and the new French theatre government. The venomous shafts were launched
by an able hand. Gall is sweet compared with them. An actor is the most sensitive of human
beings. His reputation is his all. The personal malice and interest of the writer were obvious,
but the public were too busy to examine. The crowd enjoy a battle, without caring much about
the right.

I met M. Delille a few days after the appearance of the fifth of these articles, and expressed
my indignation. His manner of viewing the subject was really noble and more instructive to
me than many a sermon. He spoke temperately of the désagrément of his position and the wisdom
of keeping on his way calmly. "An actor," he said, "is a public target. Every one has the right
to shoot at him. I cannot always forget, but I try to forgive."

"And your wife?"

His face darkened.

"Oh, I am weary. She does not get well. She lingers on. She is not strong enough to come to
me. I cannot go to her. She will not consent. They would declare I had run away. Her short
letters are full of encouragement and consolation. Ah, if these men knew--but we must be patient.
The doctor positively assures me she is doing very well."

Three weeks later I was again taking a walk through the Thiergarten, wrapped in my cloak, for
it was winter, when I perceived M. Delille sitting on a quite wet bench. His face was very
pale. I never saw a sadder expression. Hoping to rally him, I said:

"What a melancholy countenance! What a brown study! Come, I have arrived in time to laugh to
you and of it!"

His face did not reply to my gayety. He asked after my health.

"But you are sitting on a wet, snowy bench. You will take cold."

"No, I shall not take cold."

"And how," said I, "is your----"

I paused, for I now for the first time remarked a black crape on his hat.

He perceived my embarrassment and relieved me.

"My children?"

I was silent.

"They are very well, I thank you--they are very well."

"Come," added he, with an effort, after covering his eyes a moment with his hand, "what have
we now? Is there really to be a war?"

                                        THEODORE S. FAY.

INFLUENCES.

   The southern bird, which, swift in airy speed,
     Toward ruder regions wings its careless way,
   Wafts from its plumage oft a floating seed,
     Unheeded relic of some tropic day.

   And lo! a wonder! on the spot beneath
     The tiny germ asserts its mystic power;
   With sudden bloom illumes the rugged heath,
     And bursts at once to fragrance, light, and flower.

   All the sad woodland flushes at the sight:
     The brook, which murmured, sparkles now, and sings:
   The cowslips watch, with yearning, strange delight,
     The bird which shed such glories from its wings,

   Watching it hover onward free and far;
     Breathing farewell with restless doubt and pain.
   What were a heaven with but one only star?
     Must this be all? Will it not come again?

   While the new lily, lonely in her pride,
     Sighing through silver bells, repeats the strain,
   Longing for sister blossoms at her side,
     And whispering soft, Will it not come again?

                                        CHARLES CARROLL.

DRIFT-WOOD.

THE TWELVE-MONTH SERMON.

The year's end is traditionally the season for moralizing and retrospect. Eheu! fugaces anni
is a sigh that even the Latin primer teaches us; and though in schoolbook days calling the
years fugacious seems absurd, we catch the meaning as they glide away. To schoolboys the man
of fifty is immoderately old: thirty marks a milestone on the downhill of life. People whom
we looked upon as of great antiquity, in childhood, turn out to have been mere striplings.
I saw "old Kent" yesterday after the lapse of thirty years, and protest he was younger than
when he rapped sepulchral silence from his resounding desk. "How are you, Quilibet First?"
he said, quite in the ancient way; he seemed once more to brandish the ferrule on his awful throne.

Boys always call schoolmasters and sextons "old," irrespective of their years. Clerks in the
shop style their employer "the old gentleman" without meaning to impute antiquity. Gray-haired
diggers and pounders speak of their overseer as "the old man," even though he be a rosy-cheeked
youth of two-and-twenty. Lexicographers should look to this. "Old" evidently means sometimes
"having independent authority," and does not necessarily signify either lack of freshness or
being stricken in years. Thus Philip Festus Bailey's dictum, that "we live in deeds, not years,"
is borne out by common parlance, and future Worcesters and Websters must make a note of it.

Whoever, also, reaches a fixed position of authority, seems (rightly enough, as the world goes)
to have achieved success in life. This measurement of success by the kind of occupation one
follows begins with us in short clothes. Mary's ambition is to be "either a milliner, a queen,
or a cook;" the ideal of Augustus is a woodchopper, killing bears when they attack him at his
work, and living in a hut. The sons of confectioners must be marvels if they grow up alike
unspoiled in morals by the universal envy of comrades, and unspoiled in teeth by the parental
sugar-plums. People of older growth attach childish importance to the trade one plies. Nobs
and nabobs (at least on the stage) disinherit daughters offhand for marrying grocers, and groan
over sons who take to high art. The smug and prudent citizen shudders at the career of the
filibuster, while the adventurer would commit suicide rather than achieve a modest livelihood
in tape and needles. The mother of Sainte Beuve was sorely distressed at his pursuit of literature,
a career that she reckoned mere vagabondage, despite his brilliant feats in it, until the day
he was elected to the French Academy, and thereby became entitled to $300 a year. "Then my
mother was a little reassured; thenceforth, j'avais une place."

When the close of the year sets us to reckoning up how much we have made of life, pray what
is that "success" of which we all talk so glibly? It is plainly a standard varying according
to each man's taste and temperament, his humility or vanity, and shifting as his life advances.
What to the Bohemian is success to the Philistine is stark failure. The anchoret looks on this
sublunary sphere as one of sighing, the attorney as one of suing--there being all that difference
betwixt law and gospel. Sixty years cannot see life through the eyes of sixteen. When men,
fearing to measure themselves, seek the judgment of their fellows, adulation or affection may
lead astray. In the year's retrospect of science, touching the solar eclipse it is said: "Cape
Flattery is our northwestern cape, and there occurred the largest obscuration of the sun in
the United States." "Cape Flattery," I fear, is the locus of largest obscuration for the United
States every year, and was particularly so in the past twelvemonth of jubilee and gratulation;
and what the mantle of flattery is for the sunlight of truth in the nation it is in the individual.
In politics, at any rate, the centennial year is closing with some reproof of our all-summer
conceit. Our frame of government is not so flawless as we fancied; the pharisaic contrast we
drew between our politics and those of other nations is no longer so effective.

And with men as with nations, a ray of clear light reveals the shams and shortcomings of what
is hastily styled success. The pushing, elbowing fellow gets ahead in the struggle of life,
but his success is a questionable one. The bargaining man, who, partly by instinct and partly
by practice, judges everything from the point of view, "How is that going to affect me?" will
no doubt make money. Even his most disinterested advice pivots on the thought, "What will pay
me best?" as the magnet surely wheels to the pole. But when all is done, to have achieved this
artistic perfection of self-seeking is a sorry account to give of life.

Thus, the very successes on which we plume ourselves are sometimes badges of disaster, as we
ourselves may secretly know if others do not. "When one composes long speeches," says Jarno,
"with a view to shame his neighbors, he should speak them to a looking-glass." If not a hypocrite
or a vain man, he may find himself blushing at the thought de me fabula narratur. The only
alteration that our satire on others may require is to change the name of the folly or fault
we lash, and then the stripes will be merited by ourselves. The other day Temple and I listened
to a discourse of the Rev. Dr. Waddell of St Magdalen's on the perils of novel-reading. I think
the worthy doctor really refrains from that sin; he is certainly severe on those who are given
to it. "That fat man," said Temple, as we strolled away from St. Magdalen's sanctuary, "is
too greedy, too gluttonous to listen to any cry but that of his own stomach. His god is his
belly. His indifference to the sufferings of others amounts to a disease."

"What disease do you call it?" I asked.

"Fatty degeneration of the heart," replied Temple, with a laugh. On the other hand, quite shocked
at people who "make pigs" of themselves, is Mrs. Pavanne, who starves her stomach to beautify
her back, and who, I assure you, would prefer after three days' fasting a new boiled silk and
trimmings to any similarly treated leg of mutton and capers.

Grundy is a model of social demeanor and domesticity, but occasionally cheats in a bargain
wherever it is safe; Gregory, honest as the day, gets tipsy. Let Gregory remember his own weakness
before scorning Grundy, and let Grundy respect the good in Gregory before holding him up to
disgrace. The question is often not whether X is a saint and Y a Satan, but rather what road
a man's indulgence takes. Is it body or spirit that rules him--his fear, lust, vanity, gluttony,
surliness, or sloth? his humility, generosity, piety, sense of justice, sense of duty? Is his
cardinal weakness a vice or only a foible--a crime that degrades or only a pettiness that narrows
him?

If we hold with Scripture that he who ruleth his spirit is greater than he that taketh a city,
we must not give all the laurels of success to the mighty, wealthy, witty, and renowned. Poor
John Jones, the clerk yonder at a thousand a year, if we reckon at anything gentleness, courage,
simplicity, devotion to mother, wife, and babes, has made as great a success of life as old
Rollin Ritchie, the head of the house. You would imagine a first use of wealth to be the liberty
to pick at will one's employees and allies, one's friends and agents, to repel the dishonest
and rebuke the impudent, dealing with those whom one chooses to deal with, where personal choice
can fairly be exercised; but such a privilege is Utopian in business, even among men of fortune,
and envied Ritchie has little more freedom than humble Jones. Besides, the pursuit of startling
success, though it often ruins possibilities of contentment, rarely creates them. Frédéric
Soulié, having had the misfortune to gain $16,000 in one year by his pen, refused a government
place at $3,000, with leisure to write an occasional play or a novel; he was eager to produce
half a dozen plays and novels in a twelvemonth, says a biographer, and to repeat his $16,000;
and he died of work and watching in two years more.

We are not, in these kindly Christmas days, to cynically deny to unpromising careers all power
of recovery. Temple was telling me the other day of this instance known to him: Honorius had
an exceedingly dissolute son, who pursued his vicious courses almost unchecked by parental
rein, until he seemed to think his iniquities the rather fostered than forbidden. But one day
a friend of both questioned the father why he allowed his son such abused license? "Sir," replied
he, "if my son chooses to go to the devil, as he is now fast going, he alone must take the
consequences." The conversation being reported to our young rake, he was so affected by the
view of his responsibility, which he now appreciated for the first time, as to turn back toward
the way of virtue. And as before he had conceived his father in some sort liable for those
scandalous excesses, so now, being driven from that strange error, he chooses for himself the
path of honor and usefulness.

In judging unsuccessful lives, too, we need to make large allowance for the unknown elements
of fortune. "It is fate," says the Greek adage, "that bringeth good and bad to men; nor can
the gifts of the immortals be refused." But we can find justification for charitable judgments
without resorting to this general theory. We discover one youth, who promised well, ruined
by a bad choice of profession, while a second, who selected well, finds the immediate problem
in life to be not personal eminence, but providing for a wife and half a dozen children: and
if he does fitly provide for them, pray, why set down his life, however pruned of its first
ambitious pinions, as a failure?

So, finally, our unaspiring old-year homily simply chimes in with the traditional spirit of
Christmastide--season of hopeful words and wishes, of kindness for the struggling, of encouragement
for the discouraged, of charity for the so-called failures.

RIBBONS AND CORONETS AT MARKET RATES.

It is said that a Yankee has arranged to furnish foreign titles (warranted genuine) of "earl
or count for $10,000; European orders, from $250 to $10,000; membership in foreign scientific
and literary societies, $250 and upward." The story is plausible. Impecunious princes and potentates
have been known to replenish their purses in this way, though hitherto usually by private sale
rather than market quotations. It is not probable that our ingenious countryman has the Order
of the Seraphim or of the Annonciade at disposal, or that he can supply the Golden Fleece to
whoever will "gif a good prishe," or even that he would pretend to furnish the Black Eagle
of Prussia in quantities to suit purchasers. He can hardly be the medium of creating many Knights
of the Garter, nor can the Bath or the St. Michael and St. George very well be in his list
of decorations "to order." But we know from the Paris and Vienna fairs that a Cross of the
Legion is obtainable by Americans of the mercantile class; and as for the Lion and the Sun,
it was an order created by some bygone shah for the express purpose of rewarding strangers
who had rendered service to Persia; and what service more substantial, pray, than helping to
fill the Persian purse? When you come to central and southern Europe, titles are going a-begging,
and hard-up princelets will presumably be eager to raise the wind with them.

And there will be buyers as well as sellers. To the democratic mind a royal star or ribbon
is an object of befitting reverence. None of our countrymen would, indeed, on purchasing a
title, really ask to be addressed as "Your lordship," or even to be familiarly called Grand
Forester or Sublime Bootjack to His Serene Highness--unless in private, by some very much indulged
servitor or judicious retainer. But though the badge of nobility may not be worn in the streets
by the happy purchaser, for fear of attracting a rabble of the curious, he can fondly gaze
upon it in the privacy of home, or try it on for the admiration of the domestic circle, or
haply submit it to the inspection of discreet friends.

The case is different with the "bogus diploma" trade. Business and not vanity is doubtless
the ruling motive with the foreigners who strut in plumage bought of the Philadelphia "university."
The diploma of M. D. is worth its price for display before the eyes of the patients waiting
in the "doctor's" office, while to Squeers of Dotheboys Hall the degree of A. M. is good for
at least three new pupils, and Ph. D. for a dozen. I presume that in some of the foreign magazines
and weekly newspapers of a certain class, D. D. or L.L. D. has a real cash value of at least
five per cent. more in pay, or perhaps it may turn the scale in favor of an article which,
without that honorary signature, might be put in the waste-paper basket. So long as such practical
results can be had the diploma trade is likely to flourish, with full variety offered to buyers.

Now, it is not impossible to turn to trade account an Order of the Elephant, of the Iron Crown,
of the Legion of Honor, or of the Medjidieh, as probably shrewd mechanics,contractors, and
tradesmen in America and England can attest. But while this is an additional inducement to
buyers, I am sure the new industry appeals to a loftier emotion than that of mere money-making.
America, in fact, is ripe for this improvement. The modern phrase of ambition here in America
is "social status;" and dealers in heraldry are doing a business so thriving in coats of arms
for seal rings and scented note-paper, that I fancy it is this that has suggested the trade
in noble titles. The village of Podunk looks down on the neighboring town of Hardscrabble.
"Hardscrabble," say the scornful Podunkers, "plumes itself on its wealth, but Podunk prides
herself on her birth--on her extremely old families!" In fact you find all over the republic
people talking of their aristocratic families, and their "refined neighborhood," and "refined
birth"--even where, after all, it may be only a case of refined petroleum.

Here, then, is the sphere and the opportunity for the enterprising middleman. He appeals to
a tuft-hunting instinct so deep in human nature that the mere surface difference of republic
or monarchy hardly touches it. In a London church you will see a pew full of ladies' maids,
and presently there is a great crowding and squeezing, and a low whisper of "make room for
Lady Philippa." It is only another lady's maid joining her friends; but they all get titles
by reflection. Turn from this scene to the New York area steps, and the artful little rascal
who is peddling strawberries, says to Bridget, who answers the bell, "Have some berries, lady?"
knowing that this will make a market, if anything can. The fact is, we all like to be "Colonel"
and "Deacon" and "Doctor," instead of simple Jones, Brown, and Robinson; calling us "the judge"
or "alderman" is a perpetual titillation of a pleasant feeling.

Macte virtute I would say, then, to the peddlers of stars, crosses, garters, and A. S. S.'s.
There are poverty-stricken principalities and hard-up beys and khedives enough to find ribbons
for a thousand American buttonholes, and to turn ten thousand of our exemplary fellow citizens
to chevaliers. An envious public sentiment might prevent the wearing of all the ribbons and
crosses that a liberal man of means could buy; but decorations, like doorplates, are "so handy
to have in the house." The centennial year, by bringing to our shores a shoal of titled personages,
has presumably whetted the appetite of our people for heraldic distinctions. But for years
before we had even the village tailor appearing occasionally in the local newspaper as Sir
Knight Shears, and the apothecary as Most Worthy Grand Commander and Puissant Potentate Senna.
If it is pleasant for Bobby Shears and Sammy Senna to be knighted by their cronies and customers,
how much more agreeable to the American mind a decoration and investiture from a real prince!

The possibilities, to be sure, are limited. Aristocratic exclusiveness confines the Garter
to twenty-five persons, the Order of the Thistle is only for Scotch nobles, and the Iron Cross
of Savoy is purely Italian; military or naval services are required for the St. George of Russia
and the Victoria Cross; and it is to be feared that some sort of illustrious services would
be needed even for the Leopold of Belgium, the Iron Cross of Prussia, the St. James of Spain,
or the Tower and Sword of Portugal. But in the little principalities of Germany, where the
people are ravenous for titular distinctions, there is a large supply; and as, in fine, there
are said to be sixscore orders of chivalry scattered over both Christian and Mussulman lands,
a wealthy aspirant may not despair of reaching one or two of them without the pangs of knight
errantry.

                                        PHILIP QUILIBET.

SCIENTIFIC MISCELLANY.

COMPLICATIONS OF THE CHANNEL TUNNEL.

Baron von Weber, a distinguished English engineer, predicts that the Channel tunnel between
England and France, if constructed, will be the cause of great annoyance to English railway
managers, and bring forward some very acute observations in support of this opinion.

The English railway system was a world of its own; it was an insular world which could hardly
have been more peculiar if it had belonged to another quarter of the globe altogether. All
this, however, will change as soon as the tunnel is pierced between England and the Continent.

England will then no longer be an island, but a peninsula, and although the isthmus which connects
it with the Continent will be submarine, its effect on the railway system will be exactly the
same as if it were a natural one.

If the importance of the object to be attained by the Channel tunnel is to bear any rational
proportion at all to the means required, the tunnel will be constructed only if a very considerable
goods traffic between the two shores is expected, besides the large passenger traffic. Such
a traffic, which would have to compete with sea carriage, is only possible for goods if shifting
the loads is completely avoided, and the wagons and trucks can run from England far into the
Continent and vice versa. Now the English exports to the Continent far exceed the imports from
it. The English trucks, therefore, loaded with rails, machines, coals, cotton goods, etc.,
will, after passing the tunnel, be scattered far and wide on the continental railways (whose
length exceeds threefold that of the whole British system), and will have to run distances
five times as great as from London to the Highlands.

The English railway companies, who are now able to follow their rolling stock almost with the
naked eye, who know exactly how long each truck will take to run the short distances in their
island, who can, therefore, provide proper loads both for the up and down journeys, hence making
the best use of their stock, and who are always aware in whose hands their trucks are, will
suddenly see a great number of them disappear out of their sight and beyond their control on
long journeys and unknown routes. They will no longer be able to calculate, even approximately,
when the stock will return. England will therefore lose an important percentage of its rolling
stock, which will be but incompletely replaced by the foreign wagons, which will remain in
England a much shorter time on account of the shorter distances. The deficiency will have to
be made up at considerable expense. The stock will travel as far as the shores of the Black
and Egean seas, to the east coast of the Baltic, to the southernmost point of Italy, and to
the Pyrenees; it will pass over the lines of a dozen or more foreign companies, be brought
under the influence of three or four different legislatures, police regulations, by-laws, Government
inspections, etc., and where three or four different languages are officially in use.

Quite new legal obligations and intricacies will appear if the companies having to forward
goods direct into foreign countries send their wagons into the territories of different jurisdictions.
It will not be of much use if the English companies attempt formally to confine their transactions
to the French railway which joins theirs. Claims from Turkish, Russian, Austrian, Italian,
German, Belgian, and French railways will still be brought against them, in some cases requiring
direct and immediate communication.

A TOWN OF DWARFS.

A writer in the London "Times" describes the effect of excessive intermarriage on the inhabitants
of Protés, a little town in the province of Santander, Spain. Until eighteen or nineteen years
ago, the village was quite shut off from the rest of the world. Its inhabitants, from their
ever-recurring intermarriages, had become quite a race of dwarfs. On market days the priests
might be seen, with long black coats and high black hats, riding in to purchase the simple
provision for the week's consumption--men of little intelligence and no learning, sprung from
the lowest ranks. About eighteen years ago the Galician laborers, or Gallegos, from the mines
of Galicia, swarmed into the town for lodgings, etc., and since their colonization the population
has increased in strength, stature, education, intellect, and morality. Their intellects, also,
have improved--intellects which had been stunted, dwarfed, and ruined by their frequent intermarriages.

WHOOPING COUGH.

According to Dr. Sturges, an English physician, whooping cough is not always to be escaped
by preventing contagion, for at a certain age the disposition toward this disease is so great
that the child will originate it. He says: "Whooping cough is a nervous disease of immature
life, due immediately, like nervous asthma, to a morbid exaltation of sensibility of the bronchial
mucous membrane. Although possible in a modified form at all ages, it has its period of special
liability and full development simultaneously with that time of life when the nervous system
is irritable and the mechanism of respiration diaphragmatic. A child of the proper age with
catarrh and cough is thus on the very brink of whooping cough. A large proportion of such children
will develop the disease for themselves upon casual provocation, all contagion and all epidemic
influence apart." Therefore he does not think contagion plays the important part generally
supposed, and the assumption of a specific morbid poison is in his opinion entirely gratuitous.
As to treatment he says:

"The specific remedies for whooping cough (which have their season and may be said now to include
all drugs whatever of any potency) have all of them a certain testimony in their favor. They
agree in a single point: whether by their nauseousness, the grievous method of their application,
or the disturbance they bring to the child's habits and surroundings, the best vaunted remedies--emetics,
sponging of the larynx, ill-flavored inhalation, change of scene, beating with the rod--all
are calculated to impress the patient, and find their use accordingly.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION NOTES.

The committee appointed to test experimentally Ohm's law, that with any conductor the electromotive
force is proportioned to the current produced, reports that this law is absolutely correct.
If a conductor of iron, platinum, or German silver of one square centimetre in section has
a resistance of one ohm for infinitely small currents, its resistance when acted on by an electromotive
force of one volt (provided its temperature is kept the same) is not altered by so much as
the millionth of a millionth part. This fine result is the more gratifying since Ohm's law
is entirely empirical and does not rest at all upon logical deduction.

The vast amount of water circulating through the solid earth is shown by the calculations of
the committee on the underground waters of the Permian and New Red sandstones.

Taking an average rainfall of 30 inches per annum, and granting that only 10 inches percolate
into the rock, the supply of water stored up by the Permian and New Red formations was estimated
by the committee to amount to 140,800,000 gallons per square mile per year. This rate would
give, for the 10,000 square miles covered by the formations, in Great Britain, 1,408,000,000,000
gallons. Only a very small proportion of this amount is made available for the supply of cities
and towns.

The subject of the chemical constitution of matter was taken up by Mr. Johnstone Stoney, F.
R. S., who amused and interested the chemical section by a number of drawings of tetrahedra,
octahedra, etc., on to which he dexterously stuck representations of oxygen atoms, chlorine
atoms, and so on. His general endeavor seemed to be to convince his auditors that in most basic
salts oxygen is divalent, being in direct combination with the acidifying constituent of the
molecule, but that when oxygen is not so directly related to this constituent in basic salts
it is tetravalent.

In the geological section, Dr. Bryce observed that there are two lines along which earthquakes
are commonly observed in Scotland, the one running from Inverness, through the north of Ireland,
to Galway bay, and the other passing east and west through Comrie. The phenomena of earthquakes
in the latter district are now being systematically observed and recorded, under the direction
of a committee appointed by the British Association, seismometers being employed on the two
principles of vertical pendulum and delicately poised cylinders. Arrangements have been made
to ascertain whether shocks in this region can be traced to any common central point, there
being reason to believe them to be connected with a mass of granite in Glen Lednoch, whose
position was indicated on a map exhibited by the author. He thought the Comrie earthquakes
may be explained on Mr. Mallet's theory of a shock produced by the fall of huge masses of rock
from the roof of huger caverns in the earth's crust.

In a paper on the plants of the coal measures, Prof. W. C. Williamson expressed his strong
conviction that the flora of the coal measures would ultimately become the battlefield on which
the question of evolution with reference to the origin of species would be fought out. There
would probably never be found another unbroken period of a duration equal to that of the coal
measures. Further, the roots, seeds, and the whole reproductive structure of the coal-measure
plants are all present in an unequalled state of preservation. With reference to calamites,
Prof. Williamson said that what had formerly been regarded as such had turned out to be only
casts in sand and mud of the pith of the true plant. He had lately obtained a specimen of calamite
with the bark on which showed a nucleal cellular pith, surrounded by canals running lengthwise
down the stem; outside of these canals wedges of true vascular structure; and lastly, a cellular
bark.

In the department of anthropology, Dr. Phené read a paper "On Recent Remains of Totemism in
Scotland." He defined Totemism as a form of idolatry; a totem was either a living creature
or a representation of one, mostly an animal, very seldom a man. It was considered, from reference
to Pictish and other devices, that a dragon was a favorite representative among such people
of Britain as had not been brought under Roman sway.

Mr. W. J. Knowles read a paper "On the Classification of Arrowheads," recommending the use
of the following terms: stemmed, indented, triangular, leaf-shaped, kite-shaped, and lozenge-shaped.
Commander Cameron, the African explorer, mentioned that arrow-heads of the same shape as many
exhibited by Mr. Knowles were in use in various African tribes. One shape was formed so as
to cause the arrow to rotate, and was principally used for shooting game at long distances.
The shape of the arrows varied according to the taste of the makers; in one district there
were forty or fifty different shapes.

Commander Cameron gave drawings of the men with horns, a tribe of which has been found by Captain
J. S. Hay. According to the reproductions of these drawings by the illustrated papers, these
horns are very prominent, and project forward from the cheekbone.

Mr. Gwin-Jeffreys, whose experience in deep-sea dredging makes his opinion valuable, said that
telegraph engineers did not sufficiently take account of the sharp stones on the sea bottom,
but assumed too readily that they had to deal with a soft bottom only.

Mr. John Murray of the Challenger expedition announced that meteoric dust is found in the sea
ooze, a result that follows as a matter of course from the discovery that this cosmic dust
is falling all over the earth.

AN ENGLISH CROP.

The yearly trial of harvesting machines was made this year at Leamington, and the rye grass
field, where the reapers and mowers were worked, has its history given in the "Engineer," London.
"It will be interesting if we first describe this rye grass crop and the preceding crop. A
crop of wheat was grown in this field of seven acres last year, and by the end of September
it was well cultivated and sown with rye grass seed. Three crops before this have been cut
this year, the weight of which was about eight tons to the acre for each crop, and as the selling
price was 1s. 6d. (36 cents) per cwt., this was at the rate of £12 ($60) per acre per crop,
or £36 per acre for the three crops. Had not the last crop been set apart for the reaper and
mower trials, it would have been cut three weeks ago, when there were again about eight tons
to the acre. As it was, however, last week the crop had gone too much to seed, and was too
much laid for being of prime quality; the result of which is, Mr. Tough, the owner, reckons
the plants are too much spent to stand well through a second year, and he therefore contemplates
turning it over in the spring for mangolds. Mr. Tough calculated, however, that there were
ten tons to the acre this cut, and lots of carts and vans came to take the best of it; that
is, the parts which were not laid and yellow at the bottom, at the same price, 1s. 6d. per
cwt. The carts are weighed in over a weigh-bridge, and weighed out again after the buyers have
loaded up as much as they choose or require. We may add this is better than selling by square
measure. As to the next growth, Mr. Tough says he shall get two more fair cuts this autumn
if the weather be warm, and he expects the two together will weigh eight tons per acre more.
As there will be a certain sale for this at 1s. 6d. per cwt., this year's yield will realize
the great return of £60 ($300) per acre.

INFLUENCE OF WHITE COLORS.

Prof. Wallace gave at Glasgow some curious speculations based upon the peculiarities observable
in white animals. He had been discussing at great length and with rare knowledge the distribution
of butterflies, remarking that some of the island groups were noticeably light-colored, and
endeavored to connect their color with their environment as follows:

Some very curious physiological facts, bearing upon the presence or absence of white colors
in the higher animals, have lately been adduced by Dr. Ogle. In these cases the creature is
almost without smell or taste. This, Dr. Ogle believes, explains the curious case of the pigs
in Virginia adduced by Mr. Darwin, white pigs being poisoned by a poisonous root, which does
not affect black pigs. Mr. Darwin imputed this to a constitutional difference accompanying
the dark color, which rendered what was poisonous to the white-colored animals quite innocuous
to the black. Dr. Ogle, however, observes, that there is no proof that the black pigs eat the
root, and he believes the more probable explanation to be that it is distasteful to them, while
the white pigs, being deficient in smell and taste, eat it, and are killed. Analogous facts
occur in several distinct families. White sheep are killed in the Tarentino by eating Hypericum
Criscum, while black sheep escape: white rhinoceroses are said to perish from eating Euphorbia
Candelabrum; and white horses are said to suffer from poisonous food, where colored ones escape.
Now it is very improbable that a constitutional immunity from poisoning by so many distinct
plants should in the case of such widely different animals be always correlated with the same
difference of color; but the facts are readily understood if the senses of smell and taste
are dependent on the presence of a pigment which is deficient in wholly white animals. The
explanation has, however, been carried a step further, by experiments showing that the absorption
of odors by dead matter, such as clothing, is greatly affected by color, black being the most
powerful absorbent, then blue, red, yellow, and lastly white. We have here a physical cause
for the sense inferiority of totally white animals which may account for their rarity in nature.
For few, if any, wild animals are wholly white. The head, the face, or at least the muzzle
or the nose, are generally black. The ears and eyes are also often black; and there is reason
to believe that dark pigment is essential to good hearing, as it certainly is to perfect vision.
We can therefore understand why white cats with blue eyes are so often deaf; a peculiarity
we notice more readily than their deficiency of smell or taste.

If then the prevalence of white-coloration is generally accompanied with some deficiency in
the acuteness of the most important senses, this color becomes doubly dangerous, for it not
only renders its possessor more conspicuous to its enemies, but at the same time makes it less
ready in detecting the presence of danger. Hence, perhaps, the reason why white appears more
frequently in islands where competition is less severe and enemies less numerous and varied.
Hence, also, a reason why albinoism, although freely occurring in captivity, never maintains
itself in a wild state, while melanism does. The peculiarity of some islands in having all
their inhabitants of dusky colors--as the Galapagos--may also perhaps be explained on the same
principles; for poisonous fruits or seeds may there abound, which weed out all white or light-colored
varieties, owing to their deficiency of smell and taste. We can hardly believe, however, that
this would apply to white-colored butterflies, and this may be a reason why the effect of an
insular habitat is more marked in these insects than in birds or mammals. But though inapplicable
to the lower animals, this curious relation of sense acuteness with colors may have had some
influence on the development of the higher human races. If light tints of the skin were generally
accompanied by some deficiency in the senses of smell, hearing, and vision, the white could
never compete with the darker races, so long as man was in a very low and savage condition,
and wholly dependent for existence on the acuteness of his senses. But as the mental faculties
become more fully developed and more important to his welfare than mere sense acuteness, the
lighter tints of skin, and hair, and eyes, would cease to be disadvantageous whenever they
were accompanied by superior brain power. Such variations would then be preserved; and thus
may have arisen the Xanthochroic race of mankind, in which we find a high development of intellect
accompanied by a slight deficiency in the acuteness of the senses as compared with the darker
forms.

AN INVOLVED ACCIDENT.

Though American recklessness of life is proverbial among foreigners, we may be thankful that
India-rubber bags of explosive gases are not carried by ignorant boys through our streets,
as in Newcastle, England. The practice resulted by a singular chain of mishaps in a violent
explosion. The first error was in using a bag for conveying an explosive gas; the second in
using a leaky bag; the third in the experimenter, who put coal gas into a bag containing oxygen;
the fourth in sending a boy to deliver it. Then comes a chapter of results. The boy became
tired and stopped to rest, dropping the bag on the pavement. Just as he did so a passer-by
lit his pipe and threw the burning match down. By chance it fell upon the innocent looking
bag, and probably just at the spot where it leaked. After the consequent explosion only two
pieces of the bag could be found, one of which was thrown through the top windows of the bank.
Even the sound wave, or wave of concussion, had a mind to distinguish itself. It entirely missed
the first floor windows of the bank, and left them uninjured, though the windows in both the
ground floor and the second floor were broken. The wave seems to have crossed the street, smashing
the ground windows there, and then been deflected back across the street and upward to the
top story of the bank.

AN OLD AQUEDUCT SYSTEM.

Ancient life is not usually considered to have been very cleanly, but it is to the credit of
the Romans that as much as 2,200 years ago they made up their minds to reject the water of
the Tiber as unfit to drink. They hunted for springs in the mountains, and in the course of
a few centuries so many aqueducts were built that Rome had theoretically a better supply of
water than any modern city enjoys. Practically, however, the Romans suffered from a peculiar
kind of water pilfering. Instead of 400,000,000 gallons daily which the springs furnished,
the city received only 208,000,000 gallons. This immense loss, says a careful paper by the
Austrian engineer, E. H. d'Avidor, arose partly through neglect of the necessary repairs in
the aqueducts, but still more through the water being positively stolen. For one of the principal
favors by which the State and the emperors were in the habit of rewarding minor services was
by granting concessions for the lost water; that is, for the water which escaped through the
overflow of the reservoirs, cisterns, and public fountains, or through the defects in the aqueducts
and mains. The consequence, of course, was that every landed proprietor who had obtained a
concession for the waste water escaping from an aqueduct passing through his grounds was anxious
to increase this waste as much as possible--and from this wish to intentional injury was but
a step. The overseers and slaves in charge were constantly bribed to abstain from repairing
damages which had arisen, or to cause new ones to arise, and these abuses reached such a pitch
that one aqueduct (Tepula) brought no water whatever to Rome during several years, the whole
having been wasted, or rather abstracted on its way. The irregularities of the water supply
were still further increased by the nature of the mains and distributing pipes, which, as I
have mentioned, were mere lead plates soldered into a pear-shaped section, incapable of resisting
even the most moderate pressure and liable to injury by a common knife, so that any evil-disposed
person could tap the main almost wherever he pleased. At a later period, indeed, the Romans
appear to have used short clay pipes; lengths of such mains have been discovered, consisting
of two-feet spigot and socket pipes carefully laid in and covered with a bed of concrete. These
have outlasted all the lead pipes, and are still frequently found in good condition.

In the reign of Augustus, when Rome had about 350,000 inhabitants within its walls, there was
a supply of something like 680 gallons per head; that is, about forty times as much as the
valuation for Vienna. But there were in ancient Rome no less than 1,352 public fountains, 591
jet fountains, 19 large fortified camps or barracks, 95 thermæ or immense public baths, and
39 arenas or theatres, all of which were supplied with a superfluity of constantly flowing
water. The reservoirs contained only about 6,000,000 gallons, and the distribution must have
been very irregular, and it has been calculated that some houses received ten times as much
water as others. Just as the Western miner reckons the quantity of water by the inch, the Roman
estimated it by the quinarius, or amount that could flow through a pipe of one and a quarter
finger diameter, under a head of twelve inches. This would yield about ninety-two gallons in
twelve hours, and the price was so low that the householder paid only about half a cent per
year for each gallon supplied daily. Ninety-two gallons a day would therefore cost less than
half a dollar a year. (In New York it would cost nearly $18.) But though cheap, the water was
not a vested right of all citizens. The poor had it for nothing in the ample baths, wash houses,
and fountains, but householders could only obtain the right of water supply by a petition to
the consul, and in later times to the emperor himself; even then, however, with difficulty.
It was a matter of favor and a reward of merit, that applied only to the person to whom it
was granted, not transferable by gift or sale, and which lapsed with the death of the owner
or the sale of the house for which it had been granted.

GALVANISM CANNOT RESTORE EXHAUSTED VITALITY.

Dr. B. W. Richardson says that artificial respiration is a much more effective means of restoring
the drowned or asphyxiated than galvanism. By the use of an intermittent current of galvanism
it is possible to make the respiratory muscles of an animal recently dead act in precise imitation
of life, and the heart can be excited into brisk contraction by the same means. But the result
was that "the muscles excited by the current dropped quickly into irrevocable death through
becoming exhausted under the stimulus, and that in fact the galvanic battery, according to
our present knowledge of its use in these cases, is an all but certain instrument of death.
By subjecting animals to death from the vapor of chloroform in the same atmosphere, and treating
one set by artificial respiration with the double-acting pump, and the other set by artificial
respiration excited by galvanism, I found that the first would recover in the proportion of
five out of six, the second in proportion of one out of six. Further, I found that if during
the performance of mechanical artificial respiration the heart were excited by galvanism, death
is all but invariable." This results from the fact that "the passage of a galvanic current
through the muscles of a body recently dead confers on those muscles no new energy; that the
current in its passage only excites temporary contraction; that the force of contraction resident
in the muscles themselves is but educed by the excitation, and to strike the life out of the
muscles by the galvanic shock without feeding the force, expended by contraction, from the
centre of the body, is a fatal principle of practice."

CURIOUS OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.

Prof. Nipher of the Washington university at St. Louis describes some optical illusions, easily
tried and apparently very singular, as follows: 1. Fold a sheet of writing paper into a tube
whose diameter is about three cm. Keeping both eyes open, look through the tube with one eye,
and look at the hand with the other, the hand being placed close by the tube. An extraordinary
phenomenon will be observed. A hole the size of the tube will appear cut through the hand,
through which objects are distinctly visible. That part of the tube between the eye and the
hand will appear transparent, as though the hand was seen through it. This experiment is not
new, but I have never seen it described. The explanation of it is quite evident.

2. Drop a blot of ink upon the palm of the hand, at the point where the hole appears to be,
and again observe as before. Unless the attention be strongly concentrated upon objects seen
through the tubes the ink-spot will be visible within the tube (apparently), but that part
of the hand upon which it rests will be invisible, unless special attention be directed to
the hand. Ordinarily the spot will appear opaque. By directing the tube upon brilliantly illuminated
objects, it will, however, appear transparent, and may be made to disappear by proper effort.
By concentrating the attention upon the hand, it may also be seen within the tube (especially
if strongly illuminated), that part immediately surrounding the ink spot appearing first.

3. Substitute for the hand a sheet of unruled paper, and for the ink spot a small hole cut
through the paper. The small hole will appear within the tube, distinguishing itself by its
higher illumination, the paper immediately surrounding it being invisible. Many other curious
experiments will suggest themselves. For example: if an ink spot somewhat larger than the tube
be observed, the lower end of the tube will appear to be blackened on the inside.

ICE MACHINES.

Ice machines are constructions designed to employ the heat generated from coal in extracting
the heat stored up in water at the ordinary temperature. One ton of coal will make 15 tons
of ice, and yet only about 1 per cent. of the power used is utilized, these machines being
especially wasteful of heat. The work is done through the medium of some volatile fluid, like
ether or ammonia, or by the use of previously cooled air. Raoul Pictet, who advocates the employment
of another fluid--sulphurous acid solution--says that every machine must comply with five conditions:
1. Too great pressure must not occur in any part of the apparatus. 2. The volatile liquid employed
ought to be so volatile that there will be no danger of air entering. 3. It is necessary to
have a system of compression which does not require the constant introduction of grease or
of foreign materials into the machine. 4. The liquid must be stable, it must not decompose
by the frequent changes of condition, and it must not exert chemical action on the metals of
which the apparatus is constructed. 5. Lastly, it is necessary, as far as possible, to remove
all danger of explosion and of fire, and for this reason the liquid must not be combustible.
The only substance, in his opinion, that answers these requirements is sulphurous acid. This
subject is a very important one. If the utilization of heat could be carried to 3 per cent.,
as in most machines, it might be possible to make ice cheaper in New York than to gather, store,
and transport it.

AMERICAN ANTIQUITIES.

Some months ago the telegraph announced that a Congress of Americanistes had met in Nancy in
France, and few people in this country could imagine who the congressmen were or whether they
were of this country. It was, in fact, the meeting of a society, composed chiefly of Europeans,
which means to prosecute studies in the history, language, and character of American aborigines.
This is a laudable work. America probably offers the most important field for ethnological
study in the world. The great extent of her two continents gave the freest scope for the complete
development of whatever capacity for civilization her people had; and yet savagism continued
here for many centuries after it had ceased in Europe. Thus the student in going back three
hundred years can penetrate the past as far in this country as he can reach in Europe by pursuing
his inquiries back for two to three thousand years. Under ordinary circumstances this fact
would make American history much easier to study than those of Europe where the remnants left
by the savage tribes are dimmed by an extraordinary progress or covered by the débris of centuries
of movement. But the truth is it is about as easy to learn the habits of the ancient Britons
as those of the American tribes, even the most civilized, five centuries ago. This is partly
due to the wanton destruction of valuable records by the early conquerors and partly to the
prepossession that most men, even able ones, seem to be shackled with; namely, that the origin
of America's former inhabitants is to be sought in some people of Asia. If they would leave
that question for the twentieth century to decide, and begin a painstaking inquiry into what
was going on in this country before its discovery, ask not who, but what sort of men inhabited
it, their habits and their relations, the gentlemen who compose this society of Americanistes
would probably reach valuable results. There is plenty to occupy them. If they do not want
to grapple at once such a knotty subject as the relation of the Mound Builders to the existing
tribes, let them explore Spain for relics of the Aztecs. It is highly probable that records
of the most precious character are still to be found there in public archives and in private
hands, the descendants perhaps of common soldiers of Cortes's army, who were quite likely to
send home during and after the Conquest things that were odd and quaint to them and which would
be invaluable to us now. As it is, the time of the Nancy Congress of Americanistes has been
too much occupied with efforts to make the ancient inhabitants of this country a tag to one
of the numerous Asian migrations. All such attempts have been failures, for the simple reason
that we do not have facts enough to prove any theory. Still they have done some good work,
and though the subject is not of the most importance, we can but think that M. Comettant's
paper on "Music in America" before its discovery by Columbus must have been as correct in purpose
as it appears daring in subject.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some seeds will germinate when placed between pieces of ice and kept at a freezing temperature;
and it is thought that, this method will afford an easy means of selecting varieties of seed
which will bear a cold climate.

       *       *       *       *       *

The explosion in the coal mines at Jabin, Belgium, last February, was due to the ignition of
fine coal powder suspended in the air.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Vienna lady, who had been maid of honor to the Empress Maria Theresa, lately died in that
city at the age of one hundred and nineteen years. That is certainly a well established case
of longevity extending beyond a century.

       *       *       *       *       *

The rare metal vanadium is worth 13,000 francs ($2,600) per pound; about eight times as much
as gold. And yet vanadium is, as Dr. Hayes has shown, a very widely diffused metal. It forms,
however, only a mere trace in most rocks.

       *       *       *       *       *

W. Siemens has lately determined velocity of propagation of electricity in suspended iron telegraph
wires, and finds it to be between 30,000 and 35,000 miles per second. Kirchhoff had determined
it at 21,000 miles and Wheatstone at 61,900 miles.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prof. Forel of Switzerland has proved that the water of lakes oscillates almost constantly
from one bank to another, and this not only from end to end, but also from side to side. Thus
the Swiss lakes have two Seiches, as they are called, in opposite directions.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sewage schemes have had a good many indignant critics and fervent defenders. Of the former
is Mr. Louis Thompson, who says that the sewage discharged into seacoast harbors floats on
the surface, being lighter than salt water. Its solid portions are cast up on the shore and
in shoal places, there to become the food of animals, among which are shell fish, that serve
for man's food.

       *       *       *       *       *

Boys' kites can be kept from plunging by making both the wood cross pieces in the form of a
bow, instead of flat. The string is placed a little above the centre of the upright bow, and
a very light tail attached. These kites are very steady, and if a string attached to one side
of the centre is pulled after the kite has risen, it can be made to fly as much as thirty degrees
from the wind. For this reason it is proposed to use kites for bringing a vessel to windward.

CURRENT LITERATURE.

Mrs. Annie Edwards's last book[K] does not open well in point of style. The first paragraph
of the first chapter is: "She was a woman of nearly thirty when I first saw her; a woman spiritless
and worn beyond her years," etc. This beginning not only a chapter but a book with a pronoun
implying an antecedent is very bad, in the low and vulgar way of badness. It brings to mind
the superhuman daily efforts of the "American humorist" of journalism to be funny; and it should
be left to him and to his kind. And in the next paragraph Mrs. Edwards describes her heroine
as "walking wearily along the weary street of Chesterford St. Mary." Bad style again, and this
time in the way of affectation. A man's way may be weary if he is tired or weak; but not even
then should it be so called, when he has just been spoken of as weary himself, or as walking
wearily; and weary as applied descriptively to a village street is almost nonsense. These defects
are not important, but they arrest attention as being at the very opening of the story. And
it must be confessed that for a chapter or two "A Point of Honor" is rather slight in texture
and commonplace. It is, however, interesting enough to lead us on, and the reader who holds
his way into the third or fourth chapter is repaid. The authoress then warms up to her work,
and begins to show her quality, which is that of a true literary artist. We do not say a great
artist, be it observed, but a true artist. She paints only genre pictures; but unlike most
works of that class (on canvas at least), they are not mere representations of pretty faces
and pretty clothes. She works with a real knowledge of the human heart, and her work is full
of feeling. She does nothing in the grand style; even her most loving women do not have grand
passions; but all her work is truthful and warm with real life, and her earnest people are
really in earnest. The story of "A Point of Honor" is interesting, although its incidents are
not all out of the common way. Gifford Mohun, the handsome young heir of Yatton, an estate
in Devonshire, loves, when he is only twenty, one Jane Grand, a beautiful and sweet-natured
girl who is only a year younger than himself. Nothing is known of her history. She herself
does not know her own parentage. All this has been concealed from her at her father's request,
and with some reason; for it comes out that she is the daughter of a felon, who died in the
hulks, by a minor French actress, a modification of whose name, Grandet, she bears. When she
knows this, she refuses to taint Mohun's name and life with such dishonor, and he accepts her
decision; doing so with two implications on the part of the authoress: first, that he was selfish
in doing so at all; next, that doing it he did it coldly and with a false affectation of feeling.
He leaves Yatton and its neighborhood, and plunges into dissipation. Jane remains at Chesterford,
leading her solitary life and loving him. Meantime the vicar, Mr. Follett, a man of strong
nature, much tenderness, and great tact, whose character is admirably drawn, loves Jane, and
quietly bides his time. After ten years, however, Mohun returns, walks into Jane's parlor,
and asks her to be friends with him. She, loving him no less than ever, assents gladly, and
thereafter he is almost domesticated in her cottage. He has become somewhat gross in manner
and in speech, as well as in person; but Jane loves him, and watches for his coming, day by
day, as when she was a girl. This goes on for some months, with a slight admixture of the curate,
when all at once a new personage appears upon the scene. Mohun receives a letter, which he
shows to Jane, and asks her advice about. It is from a Matty Fergusson, whom he remembers as
the untidy little daughter of some disreputable people he knew something of at a German watering
place. She tells a sad tale of destitution, and asks him to recommend her to some of his friends
as a governess or companion. He is disgusted and angered at the intrusion, and proposes to
send her a five-pound note, or perhaps ten pounds, and so end the matter. But Jane, whom he
asks to write the letter for him, is touched with pity for the poor girl's forlornness and
suffering, and writes an invitation to her to come to Chesterford and visit her for a week.
She brings a Greek horse within the walls of her little Troy. She and Gifford expect to see
a poor, meek, limp, shabbily dressed slip of a girl; but Miss Matty Fergusson enters the cottage
a tall and magnificently beautiful young woman; her grandeur both of toilet and person quite
dwarfing the poor little cottage and its poor little mistress. The end is now visible. Matty
Fergusson is the adventuress daughter of an adventuress mother. Nothing was true in her letter
except the story of her poverty; and she has played this game with the direct purpose of catching
the master of Yatton. She succeeds; and when Jane speaks to him about its being time for his
overwhelming young friend to depart, he becomes rude and makes a brutal speech, which undeceives
Jane, and kills her love for him. Mohun, however, does not give himself up to the Fergusson
without an attempt at freedom, and an endeavor to resume his relations with Jane, whom he now
appreciates at her full worth. He confesses and deplores his fault and begs forgiveness, and
offers to break with Miss Fergusson at any cost, if Jane will give him back her love. But she,
although she forgives, will not receive him again on the old footing, and he drives off with
his handsome adventuress wife, and Jane loves and is married to Mr. Follett. The story is told
with great and yet with very simple skill, and the characters of the few personages are revealed
rather than portrayed. And by the way, we remark upon Mrs. Edwards's ability to interest her
readers and work out a story with few materials. She rarely depends for her effects upon more
than four or five personages. She is equally reserved in her manner. She does not paint black
and white, but with human tints only in light and shadow. In this book Mohun's selfishness
is shown with a very delicate hand, and although we are left in no doubt as to his real character,
he is dealt with in such an impartial and artistic spirit, that some similarly selfish men
will apologize for him and some others will, it may be hoped, read themselves in him and struggle
against the worse part of their natures. Jane is, perhaps, more angel than woman, but then
a good woman who loves is so often truly angelic with an admixture of human passion that makes
her more loveable as well as more loving than any angel ever was, that we cannot find fault
with poor Jane's perfection. In reading this book we cannot but remark the common nature of
its subject in women's novels nowadays. The themes on which they write endless variations are
the selfishness of men, and the unselfishness of women in love. Of the men in the women-written
novels of the day, so many are plausible, agreeable, clever, accomplished, heartless creatures;
only a few escape the general condemnation, and they are those queer creatures "women's men"--impossible,
and bores, like Daniel Deronda. The heroines, major and minor, love devotedly. But George Eliot
does not fall into the latter blunder. For some reason she is able to see the feminine as well
as the masculine side of social and sexual selfishness. This treatment of men on the part of
the sex is remarkable, for women themselves will admit and do admit, in unguarded moments,
that there is somewhat less of disinterestedness in this matter on woman's side than on man's.
But the point, we suppose, is this, that woman, when she does love with all her heart, loves
with a blind devotion, an exclusiveness of admiration and of passion, and a persistency, which
she demands from man, which, not having, she doubts whether she is loved at all, and which,
it must be confessed, rare in woman, is much more rare in man, with whom indeed it is exceptional.
The truth is that man's love is as different from woman's as his body is; but it is, therefore,
none the less worth having if she would only think so. Man is made to have less exclusiveness
of feeling in this respect than woman has. He would not be man else, nor she woman if she were
otherwise. The mistake is in her expectation of receiving exactly the same as she gives. She
has found out that she does not get it, or does so very rarely, and the men in women's novels
of the Gifford Mohun type are one of the ways in which she proclaims and avenges her wrongs.

--"The Barton Experiment," by "the author of 'Helen's Babies,'"[L] cannot be called a novel--hardly
a tale--and yet it is a story--the story of a great "temperance movement" at Barton, which
is supposed to be a village somewhere at the west--in Kentucky, we should say, from certain
local references. We do not know who the author of Helen's Babies is--he, and Helen, and her
babies being alike strangers to us; but he is a clever writer, and a humorist, with no little
dramatic power. His personages are studies from nature, and have individuality and life; albeit
they reveal a somewhat narrow horizon of observation. He uses largely, but always humorously,
the western style of exaggeration; as, for example, when he makes one of his reformers tell
a steamboat captain that if he will stop drinking whiskey, he will make a reputation, and "be
as famous as the Red River raft or the Mammoth Cave--the only thing of the sort west of the
Alleghanies." He describes his people in a way that shows that he has them in the eye of his
imagination; as in this portrait of a Mrs. Tappelmine: "With face, hair, eyes, and garments
of the same color, the color itself being neutral; small, thin, faded, inconspicuous, poorly
clad, bent with labors which had yielded no return, as dead to the world as saints strive to
be, yet remaining in the world for the sake of those whom she had often wished out of it,"
etc. The book is in every way clever, and its purpose is admirable--the lesson which it is
written to teach being that personal effort and personal sacrifice on the part of reformers
is necessary to reclaim hard drinkers. But the radical fault of all such moral story writing
is that the writer makes his puppets do as he likes. The drinking steamboat captain yields
to the persuasions of his friend, and even submits to necessary personal restraint. But how
if he had not yielded? Old Tappelmine gives up his whiskey for the sake of money and employment,
which inducements are strongly backed by his neutral-colored wife; but how if he had been brutally
selfish and immovable? In both these cases, and in all the others, failure was at least quite
as likely as success. People in real life cannot be managed as they can upon paper. Still the
book contains a truth, and is likely to do good.

--The same publishers have also brought out an illustrated book by Bayard Taylor,[M] which
is suitable to the coming holiday season. It is a collection of short tales of adventure in
different parts of the world, in which boys take a prominent part. It is one of the fruits
of the author's extended travels, and is manly, simple, and healthy--a very good sort of book
for those for whom it is intended, which, in these days of mawkish or feverish "juvenile" literature,
is saying much for it.

--Why Miss Thacher should call a little book, which contains a little collection of little
sketches, "Seashore and Prairie," we do not see. It is rather a big and an affected name for
such a slight thing. But it is bright and pleasant, and well suited to the needs of those who
cannot fix their attention long upon any subject. We regret to see in it marks of that extravagance
and affectation in the use of language which are such common blemishes of style in our ephemeral
literature. For example: a very sensible and much needed plea for the preservation of birds,
is called "The Massacre of the Innocents;" and we are told that "a St. Bartholomew of birds
has been inaugurated." Miss Thacher should leave this style of writing to the newspaper reporters.

--The large circle of readers who are interested in Palestine, and the lands and waters round
about it, will find Mr. Warner's last book of travel[N] very pleasant reading--full of information
and suggestion. He observes closely, describes nature with a true feeling for her beauties,
and men with spirit and a fine apprehension of their peculiarities. He is not very reverent,
and breaks some idols which have been worshipped. He is not an admirer of the Hebrews, or of
anything that is theirs, except their literature. His style is lively and agreeable, but we
cannot call it either elegant or correct. He tells some "traveller's stories;" for instance,
one about catching an eagle's feather on horseback (pp. 103, 104). True he "has the feather
to show;" but on the whole he makes not too many overdrafts upon the credulity of his readers,
and does not color much too highly.

--In his latest tale[O] Mr. Yates introduces American characters, following what seems to be
the prevailing fashion among English authors, especially those who are not of the first rank.
Mr. Yates manages his foreign scenes and characters with good judgment, but his Americans we
should not recognize as such without his introduction. The scene of the story is in England.
Sir Frederick Randall, a dissolute young nobleman, is condemned to imprisonment, under an assumed
name, for forgery. Making his escape, he woos a beautiful and innocent American girl, the daughter
of a petroleum millionaire from Oil City. As he is already married, it is necessary to dispose
of one wife before he takes another. This he does by throwing madam over a cliff by the seashore.
Caught by projecting bushes, she is, without his knowledge, rescued alive by some Americans,
who are yachting off the coast. One of these Americans has long loved Minnie Adams, the pretty
American girl, but she and her parents are fascinated by Sir Frederick's title and the expected
introduction to high-class English society. Minnie marries the would-be murderer, and after
a year of trouble and brutal treatment, severe sickness ensues, during which she is nursed
by her husband's first and only legal wife. Finally Sir Frederick is murdered by an old comrade
of his debaucheries, and the two wives are equitably distributed between the two American gentlemen.

--Messrs. Hurd & Houghton are doing good service in reissuing the Riverside edition of the
Waverley Novels.[P] The well-chosen proportion of page and type and the excellent work of the
Riverside press have combined to make these volumes, what American books are too apt not to
be--a thing of permanent beauty. The publishers intend to bring out the edition quite rapidly.
Five volumes are ready, and the others will follow at the rate of one each month. The present
is the great era of mediocre men. A horde of novel writers gain their living successfully enough,
and we take them up and talk about what they are doing, and how their works compare with each
other, as if their doings had real importance. But what are they to the enduring genius of
Abbotsford? He has not only proved an inexhaustible source of delight to two generations of
readers, but has founded an industry--the publication of his works--which is likely to be for
scores of years to come a permanent source of livelihood to hundreds.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is evident that we have not a new light of poetry in Mr. Voldo.[Q] He tells us that this
is a first attempt, and it may well be the last, for he seems to have been led--and misled--into
the practice of poetic expression by a certain gift, in his case fatal, of rhythm. The flow
of his lines is far superior to the meaning or the expression. In fact the latter is so involved
and farfetched, that the former is often entirely obscured. To find out what it is he tries
to tell us would really be a painful process, and the few attempts we have made were too immediately
fatiguing to produce any results. Two of his poems are worth reading, one because its versification
is well managed, and the other because its story is simple and naturally told. It is a relief
after so many pages of overstraining at words, and it shows that Mr. Voldo can be really pleasant,
if he will only be simple. Well, two out of fifty is above the average!

       *       *       *       *       *

It is only two years since a prominent American geologist wrote to a foreign scientific paper
that he had been on the point of sending to Germany for two or three men to assist him in an
important State survey.[R] His reason for this determination was that our country did not possess
men competent to find and follow up intelligently the different strata; except those who were
already engaged on other surveys. Luckily this discreditable act was prevented by the sudden
abandonment of one of these other surveys, which released assistants enough to satisfy this
extremely difficult gentleman. The truth is that, by some means, geological science has been
pushed in this country with great vigor and with grand results. Within the last ten years there
has been a revival of energy in that particular science which recalls the golden days of Hugh
Miller, Murchison, Agassiz, and Lyell. The time when the very exacting gentleman, above alluded
to, could not find helpers on this side of the Atlantic, was the middle point around which
were grouped the surveys of Newberry and Andrews in Ohio, Clarence King in Nevada, Whitney
in California, Wheeler and Powell south of the Pacific Railroad, and Hayden north of that line.
Michigan was just finishing a partial, but extremely productive, survey of her mineral regions.
Missouri had plunged hopefully into another. Pennsylvania was planning the comprehensive work
in which Leslie and his aids are now engaged. Indiana, New Jersey, and other States had taken
the great steps so much desired by the initiated all over the world, and had made the geologist
a standing member of their government. All this had been done without the necessary importation
of a foreigner. One or two foreigners had obtained employment on these surveys, but only because
they came here and sought the work. Nearly every one of the young men who performed the work
of assistants was an American. It is safe to say that in this revival of geological work from
twenty to fifty young Americans have learned to be scientific men. As to the results of their
activity, it is sufficient to read a report like that of Mr. Powell, to find how rapidly they
are adding to our knowledge of the earth's history, and even altering the canons of scientific
belief. Mr. Powell tells us that in his first expedition, eight years ago, and for three years
after that, he tried hard to find in the west the equivalents of the State epochs and periods
so well known as the basis of geological nomenclature, and nearly all taken from the exposures
in New York and other Eastern and Southeastern States. It was not until this attempt was abandoned
that he began to make progress. He had to study the western regions by themselves, and leave
correspondences to the future. That was the experience of all the workers in the west, and
it brings plainly to view the great fact, of which not all, even of our best known geologists,
are yet fully persuaded, that the geological record, though doubtless a unit, is not uniform
over the whole country. These shackles thrown off, the geology of the west leaped up with a
vigor which is astonishing. It seemed to be pretty evident, from Prof. Huxley's lectures here,
that he had not before imagined what results had been obtained in America. This is not surprising.
Few foreigners are able to keep along with the work performed in this country, where there
is such a direful supposed lack of workers! It is a fact that at present there is no part of
the world where the discoveries made in this science are of so general importance as here.
The Rocky mountains owe their name "to great and widely spread aridity," the mountains being
"scantily clothed with vegetation and the indurated lithologic formations rarely masked with
soils." But there are many systems of uplifts in this region, and Mr. Powell distinguishes
three in the field covered by his report. They are the Park mountains ("the lofty mountains
that stand as walls about the great parks of Southern Wyoming, Colorado, and Northern New Mexico");
the Basin Range system (named by Gilbert from the fact that many of them surround basins that
have no drainage to the sea); and the Plateau Province. It is worth remarking that in the west
the geologist precedes or accompanies the topographer, and accordingly has an opportunity to
name the regions according to real peculiarities rather than chance suggestions. The future
map will be significant of the past history as well as of the ocular features of the landscape.
Mr. Powell gives careful sections of the strata in the Plateau Province, where they are about
46,000 feet thick. Few persons imagine the vast amount of work, exploration, and comparison
which such drawings embody. The beds form a series of groups unlike those of the New York geologists,
but the great geologic ages are as well defined as elsewhere. The synchronism remains to be
fully established by palæontological proofs. He thinks he has been able to fix upon the true
point of division between the Mesozoic and Cenozoic ages, and to prove that coal was deposited
through about 7,000 feet of Cretaceous and about 4,500 feet of Cenozoic beds. Mr. Powell's
literary style is excellent--not involved, but clear and energetic. He was wise to abandon
the idea of publishing an itinerary, which would, as he says, "encumber geological literature
with a mass of undigested facts of little value." Geology has enough of such meaningless reports.
As it is, we follow him with confidence, and he gives us a story that is plain and comprehensible.

       *       *       *       *       *

The publications of the Massachusetts Board of Health[S] have been of a superior character,
and have given that organization decided prominence among similar American boards. The question
of how to prevent river pollution in their State they think can best be solved by placing advisory
power in the hands of some Government officer, upon whose conclusions legislative action for
each case should be based. This officer would be paid by the parties in interest. Good results
are to be obtained only by comparing and altering when necessary what is done. In this country
too little is known about this subject, and the appointment of an official "with power" is
the first step toward knowledge. The suggestions made as to the way to deal with sewage are
also mostly good, but it is doubtful whether general purification can wisely be enforced in
the present state of sanitary science. If there are any very bad cases of pollution, they may
properly be provided for in the way suggested, and experience gained from them. The lack of
experience here is partially corrected by studying the work accomplished abroad; but a rapid
review of such work can never replace the slower results of individual experience. The report
of Mr. Kirkwood, the engineer, adds to the abundant testimony we already have of the efficacy
and power of Nature's quietest work. Analyses show that the water of Charles river above the
Newton lower falls is, when filtered, fit, though barely fit, to drink, and yet it has received
the refuse of forty-two mills and factories, with a population of 14,000 persons known to be
sewering into the river, and a population in the basin of three times that number. The river
has a dry-weather flow of only twenty million gallons in twenty-four hours. On the general
subject of sewage utilization the secretary concludes that in this country the sewage has no
value, but can in some places, at least, be utilized without loss. In the death rate of Massachusetts
towns the village of Canton (4,192 population) carries the palm, with only 11.9 deaths per
thousand. Holyoke, 56.5 per thousand, has the highest.

--The report that a city is to be built in England on strict sanitary principles, in which
man may, if he will, live to a hundred and fifty years of age, will give additional interest
to this address[T] in which Dr. Richardson develops the project. The address was delivered
a year ago, when the Doctor was president of the Health Department of the Social Science Association.
It deserves attention because it indicates, pretty nearly, the goal toward which all the conscious
and unconscious improvement in our living for centuries has tended. Whether man can obtain
such control over the duration of his life depends very largely upon whether he finds himself
able to submit to the discipline and self-abnegation without which the mechanical improvements
made will have only partial success. Perfect living is not merely a thing of appliances. These
are necessary, but the subjection of the will to the requirements of orderly conduct is equally
necessary. However, Dr. Richardson says that "Utopia is but another word for time," and it
is certain that his ideal of public and private life will be at least approached by the slow
progress of small improvements. Some people have objected that they don't want to live a century
and a half, and that a city where men two hundred years of age might occasionally be seen walking
about is just the place they would most carefully avoid. But we can none of us escape our fate.
If society is progressing toward that end, let us accept it, and even allow the men of science
to hurry up matters a century or two. It is, perhaps, significant that this change in man's
estate comes just at the time when a reduction in the rate of interest is taking place, and
it seems likely that a man will have to live to a hundred years in order to accumulate enough
to buy him a house. When he has it, he will need another half century to enjoy it. At all events
read this ideal, extraordinary, and learned exposition of the health of the future.

--The idea of collecting in one volume a concise statement of modern theories of the mode in
which we receive impressions is excellent, and it has been well carried out by Prof. Bernstein.[U]
Touch, sight, hearing, smell, and taste are treated from an anatomical and experimental point
of view, and the researches of Helmholtz, Weber, and the numerous band of investigators who
have in late years devised so many ingenious modes of testing the operation of these senses
are well represented. The book contains probably as much exact and accurate information, and
as thorough a treatment of the subject, as can be contained in a volume of this size. It is
an advanced treatise that places the reader in possession of the latest theories on these occult
subjects. Of necessity it is not new; but this treatment and the facts here given will be found
novel by most readers.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote K: "A Point of Honor." By MRS. ANNIE EDWARDS. 16mo, pp. 325. New York: Sheldon & Co.]

[Footnote L: "The Barton Experiment." By the author of "Helen's Babies." New York: G. P. Putnam's
Sons.]

[Footnote M: "Boys of Other Countries. Stories for American Boys." By BAYARD TAYLOR. 12mo,
pp. 164. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.]

[Footnote N: "In the Levant." By C. D. WARNER. 12mo, pp. 374. Boston: J. R. Osgood & Co.]

[Footnote O: "Going to the Bad. A Novel." By EDMUND YATES. Boston: William F. Gill & Co. 75 cts.]

[Footnote P: "Waverley Novels." Riverside Edition. "Waverley," "Guy Mannering," "Rob Roy,"
"The Antiquary." New York: Hurd & Houghton. $3.50 per volume.]

[Footnote Q: "A Song of America, and Minor Lyrics." By V. VOLDO. New York: Hanscom & Co.]

[Footnote R: "Report on the Geology of the Eastern Portion of the Unita Mountains and Adjacent
Country." With Atlas. By J. W. POWELL. Washington: Department of the Interior.]

[Footnote S: "Seventh Annual Report of the State Board of Health of Massachusetts." Boston:
Wright & Potter.]

[Footnote T: "Hygeia: A City of Health." By BENJAMIN WARD RICHARDSON. MacMillan & Co.]

[Footnote U: "The Five Senses of Man." By JULIUS BERNSTEIN. Illustrated. New York: D. Appleton
& Co. (International Scientific Series.)]

BOOKS RECEIVED.

"Outlines of Lectures on the History of Philosophy." By J. J. ELMENDORF, L.L. D. G. P. Putnam's
Sons, New York.

"Modern Materialism; its Attitude Toward Theology." By J. MARTINEAU, L.L. D. The same.

"A Child's Book of Religion." By O. B. FROTHINGHAM. The same.

"An Alphabet in Finance." By G. MCADAM. The same.

"Roddy's Ideal." By HELEN K. JOHNSON. The same.

"History of French Literature." By HENRI VAN LAREN. The same.

"Lectures on the History of Preaching." By J. A. BROADUS, D. D., LL. D. Sheldon & Co., New York.

"Why Four Gospels?" By Rev. D. D. GREGORY. The same.

"Rules for Conducting Business in Deliberative Assemblies." By P. H. MELL, D.D., LL.D. The same.

"A Young Man's Difficulties with His Bible." By D. W. FAUNCE, D.D. The same.

"A Vocabulary of English Rhymes." By Rev. S. W. BARNUM. D. Appleton & Co., New York.

"The Carlyle Anthology." By E. BARRETT. H. Holt & Co., New York.

"Our Mutual Friend." By CHARLES DICKENS. Condensed by R. Johnson. The same.

"Life and Times of William Samuel Johnston, LL.D." By E. E. BEARDSLEY, D.D., LL.D. Hurd & Houghton,
New York.

"Washington. A Drama in Five Acts." By MARTIN F. TUPPER. J. Miller, New York.

"Castle Windows." By L. C. STRONG. H. B. Nims & Co., Troy, N. Y.

"That New World, and Other Poems." By Mrs. S. M. B. PIATT. J. R. Osgood & Co., Boston.

"Light on the Clouds; or, Hints of Comfort for Hours of Sorrow." By M. J. SAVAGE. Lockwood,
Brooks & Co., Boston.

"In the Sky Garden." By L. W. CHAMPNEY. The same.

"The Religion of Evolution." By M. J. SAVAGE. The same.

"Student Life at Harvard." The same.

"Long Ago. (A year of Child life)." By ELLIS GRAY. The same.

"The Young Trail Hunters; or, The Wild Riders of the Plains." By S. W. COZZENS. Lee & Sheppard,
Boston.

"Vine and Olive; or, Young America in Spain and Portugal." By W. T. ADAMS (Oliver Optic). The same.

"The National Ode." By BAYARD TAYLOR. W. F. Gill & Co., Boston.

"Hold the Fort." By P. P. BLISS. The same.

"The Poetical and Prose Writings of Charles Sprague." A. Williams & Co., Boston.

"Corinne; or, Italy. A Love Story." By MME. DE STAEL. T. B. Peterson & Bro., Philadelphia.

"Frank Nelson in the Forecastle; or, The Sportsman's Club among the Whalers." By HARRY CASTLEMON.
The same.

"Fridthjof's Saga. A Norse Romance." By E. FEGNER, Bishop of Mexico. S. C. Griggs & Co., Chicago.

"Viking Tales of the North." By ANDERSON. The same.

"Michigan Board of Agriculture. 1875." Lansing, Mich.

NEBULÆ.

--During the progress of the canvass for the Presidential election--in our September number--we
made a promise which seemed about the safest that could be made, but which proved to be a rash
one--so rash that at this moment we are entirely unable to redeem it--as unable as if we had
undertaken to say which exhibitor at the Philadelphia Exhibition would not get a medal. We
said that we would give our readers accurate information, in our December number, as to which
party was likely to carry the day. What may happen before these words are printed and laid
before our readers we cannot tell; and the experience of the past few weeks has taught us caution
as to prediction and promise, even upon apparent certainty; but although the election is more
than a month past, we do not know who is to be President, and no one is wiser on this subject
than we are. The matter is not one to be treated lightly. It is of the gravest possible importance.
No consequence of our civil war is more serious or more deplorable than that condition of the
former slave States, which has caused this prolonged uncertainty with regard to the result
of the election, and that political state of the whole country which has made this uncertainty
the occasion of such intense and embittered feeling, and such desperate measures by the managers
of both the great political parties. In fact, the war of secession is not at an end. Twelve
years have passed since the military forces of the seceders surrendered to those of the Government,
but the contest, or one arising from it, prolongs itself into the present, when those are men
who, when the war broke out, were too young to understand its causes. And at the same time
we are suffering, in our prostrate trade and almost extinguished commerce, another grievous
consequence of the same dire internecine struggle. Truly ourselves and our institutions are
sorely tried. A like combination of disastrous circumstances would bring about a revolution
in any other country. If we go through this trial safely, we may not only feel thankful, but
take some reasonable pride in the national character and in the political institutions that
will bear such a long and severe strain without breaking. And yet we all have faith that we
shall endure it and come out in the end more stable and more prosperous than ever.

--The cause of this trouble is a change in the political substance and the political habits
of the country, of which the average citizen seems to have little knowledge and of which he
takes less thought. We do not refer to the change of the functions of the Electoral College
from those of a real electing body to those of a mere recorder of the votes of the people of
the several States, which has been much remarked upon of late years. That change took place
very early; and thus far it has been productive of no trouble or even of inconvenience. If
that were all, there would be little need of any modification of our system of electing the
President. But there has been of later years--say within the last half century--a change from
the political condition of the country to which the Electoral College was adapted. We are in
the habit, in patriotic moments, of lauding the wisdom and the foresight of the fathers of
the republic. And they were wise, and good, and patriotic men; but as to their foresight, it
would seem that we are to-day a living witness that they were quite incapable of seeing into
the political future. We are now demanding that the Electoral College shall be abolished, and
the President be elected by a direct popular vote; and yet nothing is surer than that the distinct
purpose of the founders of our Federal Union was to prevent such an election. Their design
was to establish, not a democratic government, working more or less by mass-meeting--a direct
vote of the mass of the citizens--but a representative republican government, in which the
people should commit their affairs to their representatives, who should have full power to
manage them according to their discretion, entirely irrespective of the dictation of their
constituents, although not without respect for their opinions and wishes. The doctrine of instruction,
by which the representative is turned into a mere delegate--a sort of political attorney--is
new and is entirely at variance with the design of the founders of the republic, to which,
of course, the Constitution was adapted. It was supposed, assumed as a matter of course, by
them that there would always be a body of men of high character and intelligence, who would
have sufficient leisure to perform the functions of legislators, governors, and other officers,
for a small compensation, and that the people at large would freely commit their affairs to
these gentlemen, choosing, of course, those whose general political views were most in accordance
with their own. So it was at the time of the war of Independence, and at that of the formation
of the Constitution. Of such a political conception the Electoral College was a legitimate
product. The "Fathers" didn't mean that the people should decide between the merits of the
candidates for the Presidency. They thought--and shall we therefore decry their wisdom?--that
a small body of intelligent and well educated men, men of character and social position, accustomed
to the study of public affairs, was better fitted to choose such an officer as the President
of the United States than the whole mass of the people. Moreover, the people themselves have
changed, and have become in substance and in condition something that the "Fathers" did not
dream of. States in which the vote of the mass of the citizens should be in the hands of negroes
or of emigrants from the peasant class of Europe were not among the political conditions for
which their foresight provided.

--The great controlling fact in our politics is this one, so little regarded not only by the
general public, but by men in active political life--the thorough change which has taken place
in our society and in the attitude of the people toward the Government. As a consequence of
this change, political power has passed almost entirely out of the hands of the class of men
to whom the framers of our Constitution intended to commit the administration of the Government
which they called into being. It has fallen into those of men generally much inferior in cultivation
and in position. And as we have already said, the very substance of the political constituency
has changed. A suffrage practically universal and a controlling vote in one part of the country
of emancipated negro slaves and in the other of uneducated foreign emigrants was not the political
power to which Franklin, and Jefferson, and Hamilton and Adams, and their co-workers, supposed
they were required to adapt their frame of government. And now no small part of our difficulty
arises from the failure of a very large portion of our people, North as well as South, to perceive
or at least fully to appreciate this change and its inevitable consequences. It is agreed by
all students of political history, that the weakness of a written constitution lies in its
inflexibility; and the error of many of our political managers lies in their failure to appreciate
this truth and their assumption that the country is to be governed now just as it was in the
days of Washington. But the fact is that such a condition of political affairs as now exists
in South Carolina and in Louisiana would have been not only morally but physically impossible
in the earlier years of the republic. "The people" in those States, and to a certain extent
in all the States, but chiefly at the South, has not the same meaning that it had three-quarters
of a century ago. Over the whole country the conditions of our political problem have changed;
but most of all there; and the result is a strain upon our political institutions, and even
upon our social institutions, which taxes their stability to the utmost. The present crisis
is only inferior in its gravity to that which preceded the attempted secession; and now as
then South Carolina takes the lead. But serious as the peril is, we shall pass through it safely.
We did not emerge safely from the greater danger, to be overwhelmed by the less. Wisdom and
firmness in the highest degree are demanded by the emergency; but wisdom and firmness will
control it, and whatever measures may become necessary we may be sure that they will be fraught
with no peril to our liberties, or to the stability of our Government. The nervous apprehension
exhibited by some people that any grave political disturbance and consequent manifestation
of power on the part of the central Government is likely to end in a usurpation, and an enslavement
of the American people, may be surely characterized, if not as weak, at least as unwarranted.
Think of it coolly for a moment, and see how absurd it is. Any man born and bred in the United
States ought to be ashamed to entertain such a notion for a moment. If we look back through
the long and weary years of our civil war, we shall find that mistakes were made on the side
of the arbitrary exercise of power, from which a few individuals suffered; but indefensible
as some of these were, according to the strict letter of the law, we can now see their real
harmlessness to the public as clearly as we see the error of those who committed them. At no
time have our liberties been in less peril than when the President of the United States had
under his absolute command an army larger than that ever actually controlled by any monarch
(fables and exaggerations allowed for), and when the warrant of the Secretary of War would
have lodged any man in a Federal fortress. We see now the folly of the vaticinations against
the endurance of our liberty which were uttered by many foreign wiseacres and some weak-kneed
natives. Whatever may come of our present trouble, let us not forget the lessons of our recent
experience. In spite of any bugaboo we shall remain a Federal republic and a free people.

--One accompaniment of the singular result of the election has been sufficiently ridiculous--the
daily reports of "the situation" as they appeared in the columns and at the doors of the Republican
and Democratic newspapers. The phrase "to lie like a bulletin" has been justified to the fullest
extent. On which side lay the deviation from truth it was impossible to say; but if one respectable
journal's assertions were true, the others surely were false. It was strange and laughable
to read on one bulletin board, "Republican Victory! Election of Hayes! South Carolina and Florida
ours by large majorities!" and then to find only a few yards off a no less flaming announcement
of "Democratic Triumph! Tilden elected! South Carolina and Florida give decided Democratic
majorities!" And this was not only ridiculous, but somewhat incomprehensible. For the newspapers
which made these flatly contradictory announcements at the same time and within short distances,
all equally prided themselves on their reputation as purveyors of news--news that could be
relied upon. Moreover, their means of obtaining news are pretty well known to the public and
quite well to each other. True the "reliable gentleman," and the "distinguished member of Congress,"
figured somewhat largely as the sources of those very discrepant statements; and those persons
are notoriously untrustworthy; even more so than the "intelligent contraband" of the war times.
But after all it was a puzzle--unless, indeed, upon the assumption that these newspapers published
each of them, not what they knew to be the fact, but what they thought their readers would
like to be told; a theory not to be entertained for a moment. Nevertheless the facts as they
presented themselves did seem to be worthy of some candid consideration by the journalistic
mind; for to mere outsiders they seemed to point to the prudence and safety, to say the least,
of more caution and reserve of assertion, with the certainty that the introduction of these
new elements into the news department of journalism would tend to the elevation of the profession,
and would beget a confidence in that department of our leading journals which it may perhaps
be safely said does not exist in a very high degree at present. Possibly, however, the question
may have presented itself in this form to the journalistic mind: "If we continue to announce
victory for our own party, and it so turns out in the end, we are all right, and we shall have
pleased our readers." If the contrary, we shall merely have to denounce the frauds of our opponents
which have falsified the truth that we told, and we shall have pleased our readers all the
same." Ingenious gentlemen.

--Among the humors of the election is one so significant that it should not be allowed to pass
by unrecorded. One Irish "American" was describing to another the glories of a procession which
had made night hideous to those not particularly interested in it; and he closed the glowing
account by saying, "Oh, it wuz an illigent purrceshin intoirely! Div'l a naygur or a Yankee
int' ut!" Doubtless this gentleman would think an election equally illigant in which neither
a naygur nor a Yankee presumed to vote.

--The period of the election excitement was marked also by the close of the great Centennial
Exhibition, which must be regarded as a very great success, and which, we are pleased to record,
proved far more successful pecuniarily than we anticipated that it would. Among the grand expositions
of the world's industry this one stands alone, we believe, in its possession of a surplus over
and above its enormous expenses. This, however, is but one witness to the admirable manner
in which it was managed. But even if it had failed in this respect, as at first it seemed probable
that it would, the money lost would have been well spent in producing the impression which
it left upon all, or nearly all, of the intelligent foreigners whom it drew to Philadelphia.
We happen to have heard some of these, who had not only been present at other exhibitions of
the same kind in Europe, but had held the position of judges there, say that the Philadelphia
exhibition was superior to all the others, not, it is true, in the beauty and value of the
foreign articles exhibited, but in the native productions and in the arrangement, the system
and discipline of the whole affair. The American machinery and tools elicited the highest admiration
from qualified European judges. They found in them the results of a union of the highest scientific
acquirement with a corresponding excellence of material and exactness in manufacture. All the
tools used in the higher departments of mechanics elicited this expression of admiration, and
with regard to those exhibited by two or three manufacturers the approbation was without qualification
and in the highest terms. This result will be largely beneficial to our national reputation;
for it was just in these respects, science, thoroughness, and exactness, that our foreign critics
were prepared to find us wanting.

--The richness and variety of American slang is remarked upon by almost all English travellers,
who, however, might find at home, in the language of high-born people, departures from purity
quite as frequent and as great as those prevalent with us, although perhaps not so gross; for
it must be confessed that most of our slang is coarse and offensive, at least in form. But
the most remarkable American peculiarity in regard to slang, or indeed in regard to any new
fangle in language, is the quickness with which it is adopted, and comes, if not into general
use, into general knowledge. This readiness of adaptability to slang may, however, be attributed
almost entirely to the reporters and correspondents, and "makers-up" of our newspapers, who
catch eagerly at anything new in phraseology as well as in fact, to give a temporary interest
to their ephemeral writing. Here, for example, is the word "bulldose," the occasion of our
remarks. A man who went on a journey to South America or to Europe four months ago would have
departed in the depths of deplorable ignorance as to the very existence of this lovely word;
returning now, he would find it in full possession of the newspapers--appearing in correspondence,
in reports, in sensation headlines, and even in leading articles. Although to the manner born,
he would be puzzled at the phraseology of the very newspaper which mingled itself with his
earliest recollections and with his breakfast; for there he would find the new word in all
possible forms and under all possible modifications: bulldose, the noun, to bulldose, the verb,
bulldosing, the present participle, bulldosed, the past participle, and even, to the horror
of the author of "Words and their Uses," and in spite of him, being bulldosed, "the continuing
participle of the passive voice." Such a phenomenon in language is peculiar to this country.
But notwithstanding the fears of the purists and the philologers, it does not threaten the
existence of the English language here, nor is it at all likely to affect it permanently even
by the addition of one phrase or word. For our use of slang of this kind is the most fleeting
of temporary fashions. Such slang passes rapidly into use and into general recognition, and
passes as quickly out again. Bartlett's "Dictionary of Americanisms" is full of words of this
kind--locofoco, for example--which lived their short lives, and then passed not only out of
use, but out of memory. While they are in vogue, however, they deform our speech, and they
tend to increase our habits of looseness in language; and they bring reproach upon us such
as that with an allusion to which we began this item. For our reputation's sake we should stop
this; it subjects us with some reason to ridicule. But we shall not stop, because the men who
could stop it--the editors--will not do so. Very few newspapers in the country--only two or
three--are really edited as to the language used in them; and as to slang of this sort, it
is regarded as something pleasant to the ears of the average reader, who is supposed to think
it funny. This is enough. If the readers want it, the editors will furnish it; and so we may
expect to be "bulldosed," or otherwise dosed with some like nauseous mess of language, until
journalism has some other purpose than to pander to the lower cravings of the moment.

--It is said that in the schools for girls it is now becoming the fashion to teach the large
angular handwriting which is commonly used by Englishwomen. The announcement is welcome and
surprising in one respect; for it implies that writing is taught in schools, as to which an
acquaintance with the chirography of the rising generation justly awakens some doubts. But
as to the beneficial result of the adoption of the style in question, that is a matter of some
uncertainty. This angular English hand is very elegant and lovely to look upon in a little
note, particularly if it assures you of the fair writer's high regard, or asks you to dinner.
But in fact it is so uncertain in its forms that sometimes it is quite difficult to tell which
is meant, the high regard or the dinner. We have heard of one case of deplorable uncertainty.
A lady going out of town hastily on a short visit left a key upon her husband's table with
a slip of paper on which was written in the new style a few words which after much toil and
with the hint from the key, he deciphered and read as "Key of wine closet. Please put on gin-sling."
He was amazed; for whatever his fondness might have been for gin-sling, it was not his habit
to put it on the table. Wherefore he inferred that instead of "gin-sling" he should read "green
seal," but there was none of that brand of champagne in the wine closet. Further investigation
led him to adopt the reading, "please put on full swing." This, however, he abandoned as not
exactly a feminine exhortation in that particular matter. Then for "gin-sling" he read "gunning,"
and "gun sing," and "grinning," all of course to be abandoned in their turn. Submitted to an
expert, the elegant lines were pronounced to be unmistakably, "Key of wine closet. Recase pat
on gnu eing," not a highly intelligible letter of instruction. Finally, in his perplexity,
he remembered something that the lady had once said upon the subject of the danger of leaving
the particular key in question lying about loose or even in an accessible drawer, and then
it flashed upon him that the writing was, or was meant to be, "Key of wine closet. Please put
on your ring." Hence it appears that the elegant English hand is very easily read when you
know what the fair writer means to say. Observe, too, that the perplexity would have been obviated
by the introduction of a much needed pronoun--it. If the lady had written, "Put it," etc.,
there would have been a guide out of the labyrinth. No small part of the obscurity found in
writing arises from compression. It is better to take the trouble to write two words, and thereby
be understood, than to write one, in angular Anglican elegance, and leave your reader in darkness.