Mr C---- found Ballyvourney in the inaccessible state I have described. The people held every
year, on Whitsunday, a royal faction-fight; and for this, preparation was made almost every
Sunday in the year. They fought with deadly weapons, sticks loaded with lead, and stones. Pensioners,
who were accustomed to firearms, were hired for the occasion; but the weapon chiefly used was
a short scythe, and men may still be found bearing its mark in contracted legs and arms: one
man having Tim Halisy, his mark; another, Paddy Murphy, his mark, indelibly inscribed on his
body. They had little or no agriculture--no wheeled cart, and scarcely even a spade. A crop
of oats was a curiosity; and when there was such a thing, the only mode of conveying it to
market was on a horse's back. Their agricultural operations were confined to feeding cattle,
and they depended on their milk and butter for paying their rent, and purchasing the necessaries
of life. Their mode of carrying butter to Cork was curious. I have often seen crowds of thirty,
forty, or fifty men, seated on little ill-formed horses, which had two panniers swinging on
the back, containing frequently only a single firkin of butter in one, and a stone in the other,
the man being seated between. They fed their horses on the road-side, never entering an inn-yard;
and they generally travelled by night. No one would trust another with his property; and on
their journey of forty Irish miles, they expended no money. The scythe was their farming-implement
to cut such coarse hay as grew in the bottoms near rivers. On Whitsunday, whoever could keep
possession of a large stone called Carrigun na Killeagh, was champion for the year, and the
party to which he belonged was triumphant until the next annual battle. On one occasion, the
battle was almost ended, the champion was possessor of the stone for nearly the prescribed
time; he gave one cheer of victory, then another, and was about to give the crowning cheer,
when a signal was made to a pensioner, who had been hired for the purpose, and placed in ambush.
He fired, and the ball pierced the conqueror's neck, without mortally wounding him. The man
fell, and while on the ground, was seen pulling the moss and grass around him, and stuffing
them into the wound, to prevent the flow of blood, that he might again mount the rock of victory.
The next day he was seen out of doors by the doctor, for whom his wife had secretly sent; and
after much entreaty, his determination not to allow the opposite party to know that he had
been seriously hurt was overcome, and he permitted the doctor to examine the wound, and replace
the styptics of his own providing with more scientific remedies.

Another story of the barbarism of the people was told me on my journey. A farmer's cow had
momentarily trespassed on another man's land, one of a hostile faction. The farmer offered
to pay for the damage, but the reply he received was a shot which killed him on the spot. His
brother, who saw the catastrophe, ran to raise the victim; but the man had already reloaded
his gun, and shot the brother dead. A third brother, having seen the two fall, ran to the succour
so quickly, that the murderer had not time to complete the reloading of his gun; and as a crowd
was collecting, he ran off. Mr C---- used every exertion to have him taken, and for three years
was unsuccessful; until obtaining the aid of a neighbour, a petty chieftain of a hostile clan,
he at last succeeded. On the trial, one of the men who had witnessed the murders, and whom
Mr C---- called to swear informations, denied the guilt of the accused, swore an alibi, and
declared that he had on the day in question sold him a cow at a fair twenty miles distant.
He was, however, convicted, and hanged on the spot where the murders were committed. By punishments
of various kinds--transporting the most hardened, and sending others to the treadmill--the
people were at length brought into some sort of order.

Tim Halisy was Mr C----'s right-hand man--his manager, sub-agent, &c.: he was rich in cows
and sheep; and though rather advanced in life, he married a very young girl, who had a fortune
of forty cows. By degrees, Tim grew careless, lost his office, and resolved henceforth to enjoy
a life of luxury. His habits became deteriorated; and during the latter years of his life,
a gallon of whisky was sent for daily to the public-house; and this was put into the milk-pails,
and the cows milked into it. Upon this sustenance, Tim and his wife lived; they spent the whole
day at home drinking, and were not known to use bread or animal food. As may be supposed, the
cows soon came to the market one by one; and Tim and his wife, after years of misery, died
in great indigence.

In the year 1822, Mr C---- commenced his local improvements. The first thing he did was to
obtain the opening of a new line of road from Macroom to Killarney, and another to Kenmare.
In the various works connected with these, the people first learned the use of the spade and
shovel, and became inured to a continued day's work. There was now a possibility of carrying
corn to market if grown, or of bringing it into the parish; and Mr C---- built a mill for grinding
it. He also built an inn, and induced a coach-proprietor to run his coach from Cork to Killarney
through Ballyvourney, it being a better line in distance, level, picturesque, and beautiful--far
surpassing in every respect the old road by Millstreet. He gave sixty acres of land for a clergyman's
glebe, built a house for him, and undertook--long previous to the late laws--the payment of
the incumbent. The Board of First Fruits built a church, but were obliged during the work to
have the protection of the military. In a very extensive culture of turnip and corn crops;
in drainage on a large scale; in the building of capacious farm-offices; in planting the land
not of an arable quality; and latterly, in the thinning of these plantations--all under the
direction of a Scotch steward--almost unlimited employment was given; in addition to which,
the establishment of a dispensary, the constant residence of a valuable clergyman, a station
for police, and the intercourse carried on by the daily running of two public vehicles, have
combined to render the inhabitants of Ballyvourney as industrious and civilised as those in
any part of the British islands. They have become a quiet and peaceable race; a riot is never
heard of among them; and the Stone of Victory has long been covered with lichen, moss, and
grass. The people annually assemble at the Holy Well, and go their rounds at the station; and
the little image of St Gobnet, in the walls of an old church, is still looked on with adoration,
and handkerchiefs thrown up to touch it, that they may bring healing virtue to the sick. The
rector's residence is closely adjacent to the Holy Well, the station, and the image of St Gobnet,
and the stone of victory within a few feet of his hall door. Yet he can go to bed at night
without a lock to a door, or a bar to a window. Women and girls may be found in abundance who
can thin and hoe turnips in the best manner. As good ploughmen and agriculturists in the various
departments may now be had in Ballyvourney as in most places. All faction-fights are at an
end; and although, little more than twenty years ago, these were the weekly Sabbath occupation,
they are now like an item of an old almanac. By employing similar means, might not other parts
of this naturally fine country be equally improved, and made the abode of a thriving and contented
people?

THE DAUGHTER OF THE BARDI.

A TRUE OLD TALE.

The Via dei Bardi is one of the most ancient streets of Florence. Long, dark, and narrow, it
reaches from the extremity of the Ponte Rubaconte to the right of the Ponte Vecchio. Its old
houses look decayed and squalid now; but in former days they were magnificent and orderly,
full of all the state of those times, being the residences of many of the Florentine nobility.
How many struggles of faction, how many scenes of civil war, have these old houses witnessed!
for in the period of their splendour, Florence was torn by intestine feuds; from generation
to generation, Guelfs and Ghibelines, Bianchi and Neri, handed down their bitter quarrels,
private and personal animosity mingling with public or party spirit, and ending in many a dark
and violent deed. These combatants are all sleeping now: the patriot, the banished citizen,
the timid, the cruel--all, all are gone, and have left us only tales to read, or lessons to
learn, if we can but use them. But we are not skilled to teach a lesson; we would rather tell
a legend of those times, recalled to mind, especially at present, because it has been chosen
as the subject of a fine picture recently finished by a Florentine artist, Benedetto Servolino.

In the Via dei Bardi stood, probably still stands, the house inhabited by the chief of the
great and noble family from whom it takes its name--we write of the period of the fiercest
struggles between the Guelfs and Ghibelines; and the Bardi were powerful partisans of the latter
party. In that house dwelt a young girl of uncommon beauty, and yet more uncommon character.
An old writer thus describes her: 'To look on her was enchantment; her eyes called you to love
her; her smile was like heaven; if you heard her speak, you were conquered. Her whole person
was a miracle of beauty, and her deportment had a certain maidenly pride, springing from a
pure heart and conscious integrity.'

From the troubled scenes she had witnessed, her mind had acquired composure and courage unusual
with her sex, and it was of that high stamp that is prone to admire with enthusiasm all generous
and self-devoting deeds. Such a being, however apt to inspire love, was not likely to be easily
won; accordingly, the crowd of lovers who at first surrounded Dianora gradually dropped off,
for they gained no favour. All were received with the same bright and beautiful smile, and
a gay, charming grace, which flattered no man's vanity; so they carried their homage to other
shrines where it might be more prized, though by an inferior idol. And what felt Dianora when
her votaries left her? We are not told; but not long after, you might see, if you walked along
the street of the Bardi towards evening, a beautiful woman sitting near a balcony: a frame
of embroidery is before her; but her eyes are oftener turned to the street than to the lilies
she is working. It is Dianora. But surely it is not idle curiosity that bends her noble brow
so often this way, and beams in her bright, speaking eyes, and sweet, kind smile. On whom is
it turned, and why does her cheek flush so quickly? A youth of graceful and manly appearance
is passing her window; his name is Hyppolito: he has long cherished the image of Dianora as
Dante did that of his Beatrice. In loving her, he loved more ardently everything that is good
and noble in the world; he shunned folly and idleness, and strove to make himself worthy of
what he believed Dianora to be. At length, one of Cupid's emissaries--whether nurse or friend
the chronicle does not tell--aided Hyppolito in meeting Dianora. One meeting succeeded another,
till she gave him her heart, as such a true, young heart is given, with entire confidence,
and a strength of feeling peculiar to herself. But what could they hope? Hyppolito's family
were of the opposite party, and they knew it was vain to expect from them even a patient bearing;
nor were the Bardi behind in proper feelings of hatred. What was to be done? There was but
one Dianora--but one Hyppolito in the world; so have many wise young people thought of each
other both before and since the days of the Ghibelines; but these two might be excused for
thinking so, for many who saw them were of the same opinion. To part--what was the world to
them if they were parted? Their station, their years, their tastes--so removed from noisy and
frivolous pleasures--their virtuous characters, seemed to point out that they were born for
each other. What divided them? One only point--the adverse political feelings of their families.
Shall they sacrifice themselves to these? No. Thus reasoned Hyppolito; but we think the chronicles
exaggerate the virtues of Dianora's character; for how many a girl unchronicled by fame has,
before the still tribunal of her own sense of duty to God and her parents, sacrificed her dearest
hopes rather than offend them; and this, with all her heroism, Dianora did not, but gave up
all these dear early claims for her new love.

Delays were needless, for time could do nothing to smooth their path; so it was determined
that Hyppolito should bring a ladder to Dianora's window, and, aided by their friend, they
should find their way to a priest prepared to give them his blessing. The night appointed came--still
and beautiful as heart could wish; the stars sparkling in the deep blue sky, bright as they
may now be seen in that fair clime. Hyppolito has reached the house; he has fixed the ladder
of ropes; there is no moon to betray him; in a minute, his light step will have reached the
balcony. But there is a noise in the street, and lights approaching; the night-guard is passing;
they have seen the ladder, for the street is narrow. Hyppolito is down, and tries to escape--in
vain. They seize and drag him to prison. What was he doing there? What can he reply? That he
meant to enter the house, to carry something from it, or commit some bad deed, cannot be denied.
He will not betray Dianora; it would only be to separate them for ever, and leave her with
a stained name. He yields to his fate; the proofs are irresistible, and, by the severe law
of Florence at that period, Hyppolito must die. All Florence is in amazement. So estimable
a youth, to all outward appearance, to be in reality addicted to the basest crimes! Who could
have believed it? But he confesses; there is no room for doubt. Pardon is implored by his afflicted
friends; but no pardon can be granted for so flagrant a crime.

Hyppolito had one consolation--his father never doubted him; if he had, one glance of his son's
clear though sad eye, and candid, open brow, would have reassured him. He saw there was a mystery,
but he was sure it involved no guilt on Hyppolito's part. Hyppolito also believed that his
good name would one day be cleared, and that his noble Dianora would in due time remove the
stain that clouded it. He consented to die, rather than live separated from her. Yet poor Hyppolito
was sorry to leave the world so young; and sadly, though calmly, he arranged his small possessions,
for the benefit of those he loved, and of the poor, to whom he had always been a friend.

He slept quietly the night preceding the time fixed for his execution, and was early ready
to take his place in the sad procession. Did no thought cross Hyppolito's clear mind, that
he was throwing away, in weak passion, a life given to him by God for noble ends? We know not;
but there he was--calm, firm, and serious. His only request was, that the procession might
pass through the street of the Bardi, which some thought was a sign of penitence, an act of
humiliation. The sad train moves on. An old man sitting at a door rises, strains his eyes to
catch a last glimpse of Hyppolito, and then covers them in anguish, and sinks down again. This
is an old man he had saved from misery and death. Two youths, hand in hand, are gazing with
sad faces, and tears run down their cheeks. They are orphans: he had clothed and fed them.
Hyppolito sees them, and even in that moment remembers it is he who deprives them of a protector:
but it is too late to think now; for he is approaching the scene of his fault and the place
of his punishment, and other feelings swell in his heart. His brows are contracted; his eyes
bent on the house of the Bardi, as if they would pierce the stones of its walls; and now they
are cast down, as though he would raise them no more on earth. But he starts, for he hears
a loud shriek, a rushing, and an opening of the crowd: they seem to be awed by something that
approaches. It is a woman, whoso violent gestures defy opposition; she looks like a maniac
just escaped from her keepers; she has reached Hyppolito; his fettered arms move as if they
would receive her, but in vain. She turns to the crowd, and some among them recognise the modest
and beautiful daughter of Bardi. She calls out: 'He is innocent of every crime but having loved
me. To save me from shame, he has borne all this disgrace. And he is going to death; but you
cannot kill him now. I tell you he is guiltless; and if he dies, I die with him.'

The people stand amazed. At last there is a shout: 'It must be true! he is innocent!' The execution
is stopped till the truth is ascertained, and Dianora's statement is fully confirmed. And who
shall paint the return from death to life of poor Hyppolito? and to such a life! for blazoned
as the story of her love had been, Dianora's parents, considering also her firm character,
subjected even the spirit of party to the voice of affection and reason; and Hyppolito's family,
softened by sorrow, gladly embraced their Ghibeline daughter. Whether in after-life Hyppolito
and Dianora were distinguished by the qualities they had shewn in youth, and whether the promise
of affection was realised by time and intimate acquaintance, no chronicle remains to tell.
This short glimpse of both is all that is snatched from oblivion--this alone stands out in
bright relief, to shew us they once were; the rest is lost in the darkness of time.

The moment chosen by the artist is when Dianora rushes from her house into the midst of the
crowd, and reaches Hyppolito, surrounded by priests and soldiers. It is easy to see to what
a varied expression of passion and action this point of the story gives rise.

A CURIOSITY IN NATURAL HISTORY.

The crustacean class of animals, of which the lobster, crab, and shrimp are familiar examples,
have this peculiarity of structure--that their soft bodies are enclosed within a coat-of-mail
formed of carbonate and phosphate of lime. In fact, they carry their skeleton outside their
bodies, both for defence of the vital parts within, and for the attachment of the muscles which
move their limbs, and every part of their frame. No warrior of old was ever more completely
enveloped in his hard coat-of-mail, with its jointed greaves and overlapping scales, than is
the lobster in its crustaceous covering; with this exception, that the warrior could at pleasure
unbuckle himself from his armour, whereas the body and limbs of the crustacea are completely
incased in hollow cylinders, firmly and accurately jointed, from which there is no such ready
release. Now, as this shelly integument envelops them from their earliest youth, and as it
does not expand and grow, the natural growth of the soft body beneath would be entirely prevented
did not nature supply a remedy of a very curious kind--the exuviation, or periodical throwing
off of the external crust, and the formation of a larger shell-covering fitted for the increasing
growth of the animal. This is a circumstance which has long been familiar to naturalists, and
indeed the most ordinary observer must have often remarked in the crabs and lobsters brought
to table, appearances indicative of their change of external coverings. In the back of the
edible crab, may often be noticed a red membrane lining the inner side of the shell, but so
loose as to be readily detached. Along the greater part of its course this membrane has already
assumed a half-crustaceous consistence, and is just the preparatory process to the old shell
being thrown off by the animal. There is another curious circumstance which has also been long
known--that crabs and lobsters can renew lost limbs. Some misconception, however, had existed
regarding the manner in which this was effected, until the observations of the late Sir John
Dalyell have thrown more accurate light on the subject.

This most amiable and eminent zoologist, who was lost to science last year, afforded a pleasing
illustration of the solace and delight which the pursuit of the study of nature yields to the
diligent inquirer into her mysteries. With a feeble constitution and frame of body, which precluded
his mingling in the more active pursuits of everyday life, this sedentary philosopher collected
around him examples of minute and curious being from the depths of the ocean, from lake and
river, and for many long years found the delight of his leisure hours in watching the habits
of the animals, and in discovering and describing many singular circumstances in the constitution
of their bodies, and the peculiar adaptations of their structure and instincts to their modes
of existence. One of his last communications to the public, imparted with all the modesty and
simplicity of true genius, at the last meeting of the British Association in Edinburgh, was
on this subject of the exuviation of the crustacea.[2]

It appears from Sir John's observations that crustaceans begin to throw off their shells at
a very early period of their life, even in that embryo state in which they first appear after
having left the egg, and before they have yet assumed the real form of their mature state.
During every successive exuviation in this embryo state, they assume more and more of their
perfect and established form. While the crab is young and rapidly growing, frequent exuviations
take place at short intervals, from three to five times in the course of one year. Previous
to the change, the animal almost ceases to feed, and becomes rather inactive; the proper time
having at length arrived, exuviation is effected in the course of a few hours, body and limbs
being alike relieved from their hard covering. Until the new shell acquires firmness and strength,
the creature is very shy, and in the state of nature, retires into cavities below rocks or
heaps of protecting sea-weed. Sir John had kept for some time one of our smaller species of
shore-crabs (Carcinus monas), of medium size, of a brown colour, with one white limb. One summer
evening it was put outside the window in a capacious glass-vessel of sea-water. In the morning
a form exactly resembling its own, only somewhat larger, lay in the vessel. This was the same
animal, which had performed exuviation, and extricated itself from the old shell during the
night. The resemblance between both forms was complete--everything was the same, even the white
limb was seen in both. Another specimen kept was of smaller size, the opposite extremities
of the limbs being only thirteen lines asunder; its colour was green, with three white patches
on the back. In the course of little more than a year five exuviations took place at irregular
intervals, the new shell and animal becoming larger each time. The third shell came on uniformly
green, the white spots being entirely obliterated. On the fourth exuviation, the limbs expanded
two inches and a half. From the long slender form of the limbs of crustacea, they are very
liable to mutilation. Crabs are also a very pugnacious family, and in their battles limbs are
often snapped off. These mutilations, however, are readily repaired; although, contrary to
what was the common belief, the restoration takes place only at the next regular period of
exuviation.

The full-grown common crab (Cancer pagurus) is of a reddish-brown colour, the claws tipped
black; but some of the young are naturally of the purest white, which remains long unsullied.
This does not arise from confinement, which, according to Sir John, has no influence on colour.
'A young white specimen of the common crab was subjected to observation on 29th September.
The body might have been circumscribed in a circle three-quarters of an inch in diameter, and
the extended limbs by one-and-a-half inch in diameter. Its first exuviation ensued on 8th November,
the second on the 30th of April following, and the shell then produced subsisted till 12th
September, when another exuviation took place, introducing a new shell of such transparent
white that the interior almost shone through it. All the shells were white, and increased somewhat
in size successively. This last shell of 12th September subsisted until 29th March, being 197
days, when it was thrown off during another exuviation.'

But what was remarkable, the animal now had only the two large claws, the other eight limbs
were deficient. 'Resting on its breast as it was, I did not at first discover the fact, that
the creature presented a strange and very uncouth aspect. However, it fed readily, and proved
very tame, though helpless; often falling on its back, and not being able to recover itself
from the deficiency of its limbs. I preserved this mutilated object with uncommon care, watching
it almost incessantly day and night: expecting another exuviation which might be attended with
interesting consequences, I felt much anxiety for its survivance. My solicitude was not vain.
After the defective shell had subsisted eighty-six days, its tenant meantime feeding readily,
the desired event took place in a new exuviation on 23d June. On this occasion a new animal
came forth, and in the highest perfection, quite entire and symmetrical, with all the ten limbs
peculiar to its race, and of the purest and most beautiful white. I could not contemplate such
a specimen of nature's energies restoring perfection, and through a process so extraordinary,
without admiration. Something yet remained to be established: was this perfection permanent,
or was it only temporary? Like its precursor, this specimen was quite tame, healthy, and vigorous.
In 102 days it underwent exuviation, when it appeared again, perfect as before, with a shell
of snowy white, and a little red speckling on the limbs. Finally, its shell having subsisted
189 days, was succeeded by another of equal beauty and perfection, the speckling on the legs
somewhat increased. As all the shells had gradually augmented, so was this larger than the
others. The extended limbs would have occupied a circle of four inches diameter. About a month
after this exuviation the animal perished accidentally, having been two years and eight months
under examination. It was an interesting specimen, extremely tame and tranquil, always coming
to the side of the vessel as I approached, and holding up its little claws as if supplicating
food.'

The shrimp when in confinement becomes very tame, and readily exuviates. The process is frequent,
the integument separates entire, and is almost colourless. In female crustaceans the roe is
placed outside the shell to which it adheres. During the period of such adherence, the female
crab, so far as observation goes, does not change its shell--a marked provision of nature to
preserve the spawn.

