Looking at all the circumstances in this investigation it must be admitted as being uncommonly
remarkable, and, therefore, uncommonly suspicious, that the note should have been made by one
of whom such very little is known as Salustius; consequently, the very little that would be
known of what he did, or what might be affirmed of him that he did:--we have seen from what
is said of him by Fabricius that it is not positively known, but only shrewdly conjectured,
that he wrote the treatise "De Diis et Mundo";--it is not ascertained whether he was the Salustius
who was Consul with the Emperor Julian IV. in the year 363;--it is not settled what were his
other names, some, such as Lempriere, taking them to be Secundus Promotus, others, such as
M. Weiss, in the "Biographie Universelle", Secundus Promotius, a third set questioning whether
he had any such names as "Secundus" and "Promotus" or "Promotius":--finally, it is not determined
how his name, Salustius, ought to be spelt, whether with one or with two l's, when in Suidas
it is spelt "Salustius" [Greek: Saloustios], and in Theodoretus "Sallustius" [Greek letters:
Salloustios]. And "who shall decide" when a lexicographer and a bishop "disagree?"

There is not yet an end to all the mystery and confusion hanging around this Praefectus Praetorio.
Was he ever a Praefectus Praetorio? One cannot then understand why Theodoretus, when speaking
of his being [Greek: huparchos] (Hist. Eccl. I. 6 post init.), should express his surprise
at it, from Salustius "being a slave to impiety." The general of the Imperial Guard could have
discharged his duties just as well whether he was pious or impious: So could the Praefectus
Urbi; but this would not have been the case with the officer who was the superintendent of
the public morals,--the Praefectus Morum: It would therefore seem that this was the post held
by Salustius, when Ammianus Marcellinus informs us in his History that the Emperor Julian "promoted
him to be Prefect and sent him into Gaul:"--"Salustium Praefectum promotum in Galliam missus
est" (Lib. XXI. c. 8): Otherwise it is not clear why Theodoretus should write thus in his Ecelesiastical
History:--"At this time Sallustius who was Prefect, ALTHOUGH he was a slave to impiety:--[Greek:
Salloustios de hyparchos on taenikauta, KAITOI tae dussebeia douleuon"] (L. c.)

With all this mystery and confusion attaching to Salustius, there is almost as much confusion
and mystery attaching to Sanctus Severus Endelechius,--or Severus, as he is mostly known to
the writers of ecclesiastical history. Possevino, the Elder, in the second volume (p. 398)
of his "Apparatus Sacer" speaks of him as a teacher of oratory and a poet in the Christian
world:--"Severi Rectoris et Poetae Christiani, Carmen Bucolicon". Rheinesius, in one of his
Letters (VIII.) to Daumius, misquotes this, by substituting "Rhetoris "for "Rectoris"; in the
course of the same letter he makes a remark which causes one to understand what is meant by
"declaiming controversies in the Forum of Mars to the Orator Endelechius": Rheinesius says
that, the custom of rhetoricians was to bring forward into the forum set matters, or themes"
[Greek: Theseis] "for the sake of intellectual exercitation":--"solebant enim oratores etiam
fictas materias, seu [Greek: Theseis], in forum producere exercendi ingenii gratia"; --from
this being done, we learn towards the close of the letter, when he is speaking of this very
note to the Second Florentine MS., that "Endelechius was a master to Sallustius"--"Endelechius
... Sallustio magister fuit."

It is clear that Rheinesius believes everything about the note to the Second Florence MS. But
how came a Heathen philosopher,--a very impious one, too, (according to Theodoretus), like
Salustius, to be so cordially connected in the fourth century with a devout Christian teacher,
like Sanctus Severus Endelechius? Even admitting that there was this freedom of intercourse
between the two, do dates agree for the kind of relationship that is said to have existed between
them? The time when Salustius was learning oratory from Endelechius was, as the note tells
us, the year 395. But Endelechius was the contemporary of Paulinus, the date of whose death
was 431, and Endelechius died a little before or after him, (See Rheinesius Epist. ad Daumium
VIII. p. 25.) Endelechius must have then been a remarkably juvenile instructor in rhetoric.
Shall we say at ten years of age? or eight? or six? or when he was in his cradle? for he died
before he was 50.

Why, also, should there have been any written declaration on the part of Salustius, that he
had revised the copy? Does it not look as if his certificate of revision was meant to establish
this as a fact not to be contravened,--that the Manuscript is as old as the fourth century?
The trick is clearly the artifice of an impostor, who wants an attestation, when no attestation
is required to substantiate a thing except when the thing to be substantiated is, as in this
instance, a falsification. The Benedictine monks say in their "Nouveau Traite de Diplomatique"
(III. 279), "they never saw in any manuscript an attestation of corrections"; more so, when
the manuscript is a copy, and not an original, and does not bear any corrections on its margin;--"sur
un tres grand nombre de mss. que nous avons vus, jamais nous n'ayons remarque d'attestations
de corrections, transcrites dans les copies." I will be bound to say that they never saw in
any other manuscript than this, (the vellum of which is, I suspect, of the 15th century), the
letters formed and the words placed at the distance between each other as obtained in the tenth
century, along with the abbreviations and the punctuations of that period.

Nor is this an end of the marks of imposture about this Second Florence MS.

The reader will admit that a very great (and what looks like an insuperable) difficulty was
to be got over by some amazingly clever trick not easily conceivable, when a number of books,
as if written by Tacitus, were to precede a history which he had composed, commencing: "When
I begin this work"--"Initium mihi operis;" those words which now in all the editions properly
stand at the head of a separate and substantive work, "Historiarum Liber I." stand in the Second
Florence MS. at the head of what is designated the "Seventeenth Book" of the whole production.
The device had recourse to is ingenious in the extreme, yet as arrant a mark of imposture as
anything that we have pointed out.

The last Six Books of what we now know as "The Annals" are headed "Cornelii Taciti Historiae
Augustae LI. XI. Actionum Diurnalium:" that is, "The Books of the History of the Emperors by
Cornelius Tacitus, the 11th of the Daily Transactions." The first book of what we now know
as "The History" has this change in the heading: "Actorum Diurnalium XVII."; that is "the 17th
book of the Daily Affairs." The implication is that Tacitus meant a vast difference between
"Actiones Diurnales" and "Actus Diurnales"; so to leave the reader in doubt as to whether Tacitus
had given any explanations as to why he meant to change the character of the narrative but
not the numbering of the books, the Sixteenth Book breaks off abruptly; the kind of explanation
that must have been given by Tacitus is thus left entirely to the imagination of the reader,
for everybody must conjecture, if the affair was genuine, that some sort of explanation was
given in the lost part. This is certain that, from the manner in which he wrote the Annals,
Bracciolini gave a larger meaning to "actus" than to "actiones," the former meaning "public
affairs," and the other "things that were done" of any note or interest; clearly showing that
nobody was more conscious than Bracciolini himself how he had failed in attempting to write
history in the exact manner in which it was written by Tacitus. I may now place before the
reader the astonishment which Seemiller expresses in his "Incrementa Typographica" (pp. 10,
11), that the books about the Emperors of Rome in the first edition of the works of Tacitus
printed at Venice in 1469 by the then unrivalled master of his art, Vindelinus of Spire, should
not have the titles of "Annals" and "History." The reader now sees the reason why; and, moreover,
the reader knows that Seemiller must have seen very few editions of the works of Tacitus.

VI. One or two things more ought to be taken notice of, because they connect Bracciolini with
the forged manuscript.

It was usual for monastic transcribers to follow the text of the writer as closely as printers
in these days follow the copy of an author. Everybody has his peculiarities: Bracciolini was
no exception to this rule. He was in the habit of writing "incipit feliciter" at the commencement
of a work: this maybe seen in an old MS. copy of his "Facetiae", preserved in the British Museum,
and supposed to have been written at Nuremberg in 1470. This also runs through the headings
to the books in the Second Florence MS. To either "feliciter" or "felix," he was so partial,
that he shows it in the attestation of Salustius, who is made to write "Ego Salustius legi
et emendavi Romae felix."

There is another point, which, though as trifling, is as striking. MSS. were sometimes found
with two or more authors bound up together, and these, in the majority of cases, were very
old ones. To give the Second Florence MS. an air of antiquity Tacitus is bound up with Apuleius.
If an author was to be selected to be bound up with anything done by Bracciolini at this date,
and he had been consulted in the matter, there was none more likely for him to have chosen
than Apuleius, for his thoughts were now running altogether upon that writer, of whose "Golden
Ass" he gave a Latin translation; and the particular part of Apuleius bound up with Tacitus
only begins at the 10th chapter, that is, with only what he writes "De Asino Aureo."

These are, as I have said, small points; but looking at surrounding circumstances, they are
significant; and stand forth as additional proofs of Bracciolini being concerned not only in
the forgery of the last Six Books of the Annals, but also in the forgery of the Second Florence MS.

VII. Another point ought not to be passed over in silence, as it is of much importance.

It has been said in the first part of this investigation that no authentic mention is to be
found of the Annals of Tacitus from the second to the fifteenth century; for the simple reason
that it was not then in existence. But if it was forged, copied and issued by 1429, it would
almost follow that some mention would be made of it not very long after that date: this was
actually the case: the first authentic mention of the Annals is by Zecco Polentone, in the
Sixth Book of his "De Scriptoribus Illustribus Latinae Linguae": he says that he would "not
venture to state very positively what was the number of the books of Tacitus's History; but
for himself he had seen the eleventh book (in a fragmentary form) and all the others down to
the twenty-first, in which abundant materials had been furnished in an elaborate manner of
the life of Claudius and of the succeeding emperors down to Vespasian." This work of Polentone
I have never seen, and quote the extract as it is given by the Abbe Mehus in his Preface to
the works of Traversari: "Librorum ejus" (Taciti nempe) "numerum affirmare satis certe non
audeo. Fragmenta quidem libri undecimi, et reliquos deinceps ad vigesimum primum vidi, in quis
vita Claudii, et qui fuerunt postea Caesares ad Vespasianum usque, ornate, ut dixi, et copiose
ornavit" (Mehus. Praef. ad Latinas Epistolas Traversarii p. XLVII.). The question now arises
when did Polentone write this? It could not have been before 1429, because the last six books
of the Annals had not yet been given to the world; nor would it have been after 1463, for that
date was, according to Pignorius, the year of his death. The first authentic mention of the
last six books of the Annals might then have been in the first year after its publication,
or it might not have been till the thirty-third; but this is certain, that those books, as
might have been expected from their most remarkable character, attracted attention, as they
have not ceased to do down to the present day, in the very first generation when they were
placed before the public.

VIII. I cannot see that anything I can think of and investigate invalidates my theory: on the
contrary, everything that suggests itself immediately and strictly tallies with the truth of
it; but if this be not the case with every theory, then that theory is not, and cannot be correct.
Take and test any; take and test the theory, for example, of Sir George Cornewall Lewis with
respect to the ancient monarchy of Rome; he considered it to be a myth, his principal argument,
in my opinion, being, on account of the number of years the seven kings had reigned,--244;--he
maintained that such a length of years in such an exceedingly small number of consecutive reigns
is not to be found in the history of any other country; that may be true enough; but only turn
the eye to the country contiguous to ours; the land which almost seems to present itself as
a matter of course for its great fame and splendour, France; then turn to the most striking
and memorable period of its monarchy,--the time of the seven last kings, the Henries and the
Louises, just preceding the Great Revolution: the years of their consecutive reigns number
233, so that there are 11 years to the good of Sir George Cornewall Lewis's theory; but if
two of those French kings, Henry III. and Henry IV., had not been assassinated, and the last
of them, Louis XVI., deprived of his life by an infuriated people, the number of years of those
seven monarchs' reigns might have been 270 or 280, possibly even 300. That theory of Sir George
Cornewall Lewis cannot then be accepted; there being nothing,--for the leading reason given
by him,--that should induce us to question the accuracy of history as regards the Roman monarchy.

IX. But it does strike me most forcibly that after what I have advanced, (it may be, feebly,--I
am certain in a manner that is very faulty),--it is simply aversion to novelty that can cause
the reader still to believe that Tacitus wrote that part of his History which passes by the
name of "Annals": I do not see how the reader can be of that opinion when he ponders over the
numerous literary doubts I have raised as to its authenticity, more particularly, of the last
six books;--when, too, he remembers how I have shown by facts, dates and circumstances the
period when that portion came into existence;--the year when it was begun and the year when
it was completed;--the people who were engaged in its production;--the writer who composed
it;--the individual who suggested it;--the book-collector who instigated it;--the monk who
transcribed it;--the rich man who purchased it;--and, just now, the author who made the first
authentic mention of it; and last, but not least, the condition (that is, the exact age and
undoubted spuriousness) of the oldest MS. that we have of it:--all goes to prove that, if not
the whole work, at any rate, the last Six Books of the Annals are a forgery;--and a forgery,
too, so audacious in its conception, and so extraordinary in its bungling,--while all the steps
of its execution have been so distinctly set forth according to data that have been given and
authorities that have been cited,--that it seems to me to be nothing more nor less than sheer
obstinacy, after such clear demonstration, for any body to entertain a doubt about it.

END OF BOOK THE THIRD.

BOOK THE FOURTH.

THE FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ANNALS.

 Hunc lege quaeso librum, quem condidit ore disertus,
 Et Latiae linguae Poggius ipse decus.
 BEBELIUS. Utilissimus Liber.

I. When Bracciolini completed the first instalment of his forgery he was in his fiftieth year.
From that date, for the remainder of his life, in consequence of the large remuneration he
received for his audacious imposition, he lived in comparatively affluent circumstances. He
permanently fixed his residence in a villa which he purchased in the pleasant district of Valdarno
in the Tuscan territory;--a villa made profitable by a vineyard, and beautiful by a garden
adorned with tasteful ornaments, fountains and classic statues, the workmanship of ancient
Greek and Roman sculptors. With the lucrative contingencies attached to his forgery, such as
disposing of copies from the original, a privilege which he, doubtless, obtained from his friend
Cosmo de' Medici, and for which he must have frequently got large sums of money, he may have
gratified the inclination he expressed six years before to his friend, Niccoli, of spending
400 gold sequins a year;--"non sum pecuniosus ... erat animus expendere usque ad CCCC. aureos,
non quod tot habeam." (Ep. II. 3.) He now had the means, that sum being equivalent to from
8 to 10 thousand pounds a year in these days. That he made a splendid fortune there can be
no question, were it only for the words used by Poliziano in his History of the Pazzi and Salviati
Conspiracy against Lorenzo de' Medici, while speaking of his eldest son James "squandering
in a few years the ample patrimony which he had inherited": "patrimonium quod ipse amplum ex
haereditate paterna obvoverat totum paucis annis profuderat" (Polit. De Pact. Conj. Hist. p.
637), the language used showing that Jacopo Bracciolini was not sole inheritor but co-heir
with his brothers. Certain it is that the circumstances of Bracciolini were so much improved
after his forgery of the Annals that from that time he had the opportunity of indulging a cherished
idea of his earlier manhood devoting himself to literary undertakings. He started off with
his treatise on Avarice, (a subject of which he was a very good judge): composition after composition
then issued rapidly from his pen; they were no longer anonymous; they were attended by fame;
he thus made ample amends for the "inglorius labor", as he styles it himself (An. IV, 32),
of the Annals.

These works have been extremely valuable in the course of this inquiry; they are more especially
valuable just now in enabling me to trace home to him the authorship of the first six books
of the Annals; these works were 15 in number, namely 1. Historia Disceptativa de Avaritia;
2. Two books of Historiae Convivales; 3. An essay De Nobilitate; 4. Ruinarum Urbis Romae Descriptio;
5. A treatise De Humanae Conditionis Miseria; 6. Controversial Writings; 7. Funeral Orations;
8. Epistles; 9. Fables; 10. Facetiae; 11. A Dialogue De Infelicitate Principum; 12. Another
entitled "An Seni sit Uxor ducenda"? first published in Liverpool in 1807, and edited by the
Rev. William Shepherd; 13. Four books De Varietate Fortunae first published in 1723 by the
Abbe Oliva; 14. History of Florence in 8 books, published by Muratori in the 20th volume of
his Rerum Italicarum Scriptores; and 15. A Dialogue on Hypocrisy printed in the Appendix to
the Fasciculus Rerum Expetendarum et Fugiendarum first published at Cologne in 1535 by Orthuinus
Gratius, and in 1689 by Edward Brown with considerable additions.

But these were not his only literary productions. Fazio tells us that he wrote a book upon
the manners of the Indians: "scripsit ... de Moribus Indorum" (Facius. De Viris Illustr. p.
17): this is the same as the fourth book of his "De Varietate Fortunae," which is a translation
or version of the travels in India of Niccolo di Conti. The same authority also informs us
that "he translated the Cyropaedeia of Xenophon, which he dedicated to Alphonso I, King of
Naples, from whom he received a very large sum of money for his dedication, even as he dedicated
to Pope Nicholas V. his translation of the six books of the historian Diodorus Siculus": --"Cyripaediam,
quam Xenophon ille scripsit, latinam reddidit, atque Alphonso Regi dedicavit, pro qua a Rege
magnam mercedem accepit. Ejusdem est traductio Diodori Siculi historiographi ad Nicolaum Quintum
Pontificem Maximum libri sex" (L. c.) Another translation of his was "The Golden Ass" of Apuleius
in ten books; and he edited, (but without notes), the "Astronomicon" of Manilius, --whom, by
the way, he misstyles "Manlius."

The advantage which he obtained from the publication of these works was as nothing compared
to the large and repeated sums he must have got from his fabrication of the Annals; and the
knowledge that he would always have a ready and munificent purchaser in Cosmo de' Medici, induced
him to continue his wondrous and daring forgery.

II. We have seen how, at the very least, 500 gold sequins were given by Cosmo de' Medici, for
the last six books of the Annals. After the lapse of nearly 90 years, exactly the same sum
was awarded for the discovery of the first six books by another de' Medici, Leo X., to Arcimboldi,
afterwards Archbishop of Milan, --the 122nd, according to the Abbot Ughelli, in his work that
occupied him thirty years,--"Italia Sacra".

Now, it is a very remarkable circumstance that, at the time when Arcimboldi gave out that he
had discovered the first six books of the Annals in the Abbey of Corvey, the fourth son of
Bracciolini, Giovanni Francesco, then a man 68 years of years, was holding the same office
that his father had held before him in the Pontifical Court as Papal Secretary. We have no
record that Giovanni Francesco Bracciolini knew anything about the opening books of the Annals,
nor where they were to be found: we are not told that he was in any communication on the matter
with Arcimboldi: all we know is that he was a colleague in the court of Leo X. of the finder
of those books.

On this fact, nevertheless, I build up the following theory:--That Bracciolini having found
what a good thing he had made of it in forging the last six books of the Annals, along with
the great success that had attended it, set about forging an addendum, with a view of disposing
of it when completed to Cosmo de' Medici; --that while he was engaged in the composition, he
was surprised by death on the 30th of October, 1459, leaving behind his friend and patron,
Cosmo de' Medici, to survive him nearly five years, till the 1st of August, 1464;--that Bracciolini,
when he saw that he was approaching the end of his days, must necessarily and naturally have
made his sons acquainted with the existence of the work, on account of the great profit that
could be made by the disposal of it whenever the favourable opportunity presented itself;--that
Giovanni Francesco Bracciolini, in 1513 when John de' Medici was elected to the Pontifical
throne, having outlived all his brothers, had then this MS. in his keeping; knowing that it
was in an unfinished state, from his father being engaged upon it when he died,--also being
aware that there was an ugly gap of three years between the imprisonment of Drusus and the
fall of Sejanus,--believing in the necessity of this gap being supplied, --and regarding Arcimboldi
as a greater Latinist and scholar generally than himself, therefore more capable of adding
this fresh matter,--at any rate, of putting the manuscript in order for transcription,--he
apprised the Pope's Receiver of the treasure; --and that the time which elapsed between the
offering of the reward by Leo X. and the turning up of the first six books of the Annals, something
more than a year, or even a year and a half, was occupied by Arcimboldi in the revision of
the MS. and by a monk in the Abbey of Corvey in transcribing the forgery along with the works
of Tacitus.

This theory, founded altogether on the imagination, may be right, or it may be quite wrong;
but whether it be wrong or right, it is impossible to believe that Tacitus wrote those books:
it is equally impossible to believe that they were forged by Arcimboldi, or that more than
one man composed the first six and the last six books of the Annals, were it only on account
of the close identity of the character, and the conspicuous splendour of the peculiar ability
manifested in both parts.

III. We must, therefore, now endeavour by internal evidence, and by that alone, to convince
the reader that Bracciolini, and nobody else but he, forged the first portion of the Annals:
too many proofs stand prominently forward to prevent our doubting for a moment that this really
was the case, however unaccountable it may seem that 86 years should have intervened between
the appearance of the two parts, and 56 after the death of the author.

IV. One strong reason for believing that Bracciolini wrote the first six books is the far greater
superiority of the workmanship to that in the last six books, showing that the author was then
older, more matured in his mental powers, more experienced in the ways of the world and better
acquainted with the workings of the human heart;--for if it be true what Goethe said that no
young man can produce a masterpiece, it is, certainly, quite as true that a man's work in the
way of intellect, information and wisdom, is better after he is fifty than before he reaches
that age,-- provided always that he retains the full vigour of his faculties. Now no one will
for a moment say that such workmanship as the delineation of character, say, for example, of
Nero and Seneca, in the last part of the Annals can stand by the side of the finished picturing
of Tiberius and Sejanus in the first part.

V. Another reason for entertaining this belief is that there is a still further departure in
the first six than in the last six books from the method pursued by Tacitus: greater attention
is paid to acts of individuals than to events of State: the writer seems to have been emboldened
by his first success to follow more closely the bent of his genius, and that was, to make of
history a school of morals for imparting instruction by means of revealing the springs of human
action and the workings of the human heart.

VI. That, indeed, the two parts proceeded from the same hand is seen in the symmetry of the
framework. Each book contains the actions of two, three, four or six years. The latter is the
case in the last part,--in the 12th book,--and in the first part,--in the 4th and 6th books.
The narrative extends to four years in the 13th book, and to about the same time in the 14th
in the last part, and in the first part to the 2nd book; a little more than three years occupies
the 15th book in the last part and the 3rd and 5th in the first part; two years the 11th and
nearly two years the 1st; in both parts one book is left in a fragmentary state, it being the
16th in the last part, and in the first part the 5th.

These circumstances go a considerable way towards supporting the hypothesis that the first
six books of the Annals were written by the same man who wrote the last six books.

VII. A further evidence of the same authorship is found in the close resemblance which the
openings of both parts bear to one another: each refers to crime, the last part opening with
the hideous accusations against Silius, and the adulteries of Messalina, while the first part
opens with the murder of Agrippa Posthumus.

VIII. The same tone and colouring, too, are thrown over both parts: an unbroken moodiness pervades
them; one unceasing series of repulsive pictures of the vices and immoralities of a country
fallen into servility and hastening to destruction; men and women commit revolting crimes;
the human race is a prey to calamity; individuals are feared and followed by oppression, and
that, too, simply because they are distinguished by nobility of birth, or because they are
excellent rhetoricians, or popular with the multitude, or endowed with faculties equal to all
requirements in public emergencies and State difficulties: we have the same terrible deaths
of ministers,--Seneca and Sejanus; the same blending of ferocity and lust in emperors,--Nero
and Tiberius; the same accusations and sacrifices of men who are free of speech and honourable
in their proceedings.

IX. Statements are made in both parts that appear to be the outcome only of inventive ingenuity
and a malignant humour. Thus Sejanus, who is depicted as a peril to the State, both when he
flourished and when he fell, has, after his execution, his body ignominiously drawn through
the streets, (which looks, by the way, like a custom of the fifteenth century), and those who
are accused of attachment to him, including his innocent little children, are all put to death.
This seems to be said merely with the view of blackening the character of Tiberius, as the
character of Nero is blackened by the statements made about Antonius Natalis. Antonius Natalis
takes part in the Pisonian Conspiracy against Nero (An. XV. 54, 55); then he betrays Seneca
and the companions of Seneca (ib. 56); after that he gets off with impunity (ib. 71). I may
be wrong, but it strikes me that this statement is merely made with the view of attacking Nero
as a bad administrator for not punishing a mean conspirator and cruel traitor: Tiberius is
similarly assailed for cruelly killing harmless children.

There are no means of showing that what is said of the children of Sejanus is fiction; it can
only be surmised: but it can be proved as a fact that what is stated about Antonius Natalis
is nothing more nor less than pure romance. He was dead before the conspiracy of Piso: Bracciolini
could have seen that had he read carefully the letters of Seneca himself; for the philosopher
and statesman speaks of Natalis at the time when he wrote the letter numbered in his works
87, as being dead some time, and "having many heirs" as he had been "the heir of many":--"Nuper
Natalis ... et multorum haeres fuit, et multos habuit haeredes" (Ep. LXXXVII.)

X. This statement then about Nero having no foundation, seems to have been merely made out
of that spirit of detraction which we have already noticed as characterizing both parts of
the Annals: it is the same spirit which runs through the works of Bracciolini: first he praises
an individual, and then mars the eulogy of him by introducing some little bit of defamation.
To give examples:--We open his collected works, and begin to read his treatise on Avarice:
turning over the first page we find him speaking of a great preaching friar, named Bernardino,
whom he lauds as most extraordinary in the command he held over the feelings of his congregation,
moving them, as he pleased, to tears or laughter; but he adds that Bernardino did not adapt
his sermons to the good of those who heard him, but, like the rest of his class, to his own
reputation as a preacher: "Una in re maxime excellit in persuadendo, ac excitandum affectibus
flectit populum, et quo vult deducit, movens ad lachrymas, et cum res patitur ad risum....
Verum ... ipse, et caeteri hujusmodi praedicatores, ... non accommodant orationes suas ad nostram
utilitatem sed ad suam loquacitatem" (De Avaritia. Pog. Op. p. 2). A few pages further on,
we find him speaking of Robert, King of Sicily, as unsurpassed by any living prince in reputation
and the glory of his deeds, but the meanness of his avarice, we are told, clouded the splendour
of his virtues: "At quid illustrius est etiam hodie regis illius memoria, fama, nomine, gloria
rerum gestarum ... si avaritia in eo virtutis laudem extinxisset" (ib. p. 14).

XI. Other resemblances in both parts denote identity of authorship. Mean individuals are magnified
and inconsiderable nations exalted; their wars and deeds are related with pompous particularity;
battles are fought not worth recording, and enterprizes undertaken not worth reading; Tacitus
would have deemed such incidents unworthy of mention; for he takes no more notice of the Hermundurians,
than to speak of them as a German tribe faithful to the Romans, and living in friendly relations
with them: but in the Annals they are put forward for the admiration of posterity as waging
a war with the Callians, and fighting a severe battle with those little creatures. In the last
part of the Annals (XII. 55) the Clitae tribes of Cilician boors rush down from their rugged
mountains upon maritime regions and cities under the conduct of their leader, Throsobor; so
in the first part (III. 74) Tacfarinas makes depredations upon the Leptuanians, and then retreats
among the Garamantes. The same Numidian savage in the same part leads his disorderly gang of
vagabonds and robbers against the Musulanians, an uncivilized people without towns (II. 52);
in the last part Eunones, prince of the Adorsians, fights with Zorsines, king of the Siracians,
besieges his mud-huts, and, the historian gravely informs us, had not night interrupted the
assault, would have carried his moats in a single day. "These are

    "the battles, sieges, fortunes,--
    The most disastrous chances
    Of moving accidents by flood and field,"

that enlist our sympathies in both parts of the Annals; and of these people, with their

    "hair-breadth 'scapes in the imminent deadly breach,"

"you have little else," says that severe critic of the Annals, the Vicar of Wrexham (p. 89),
"but tumults, advances, retreats, kings recalled, kings banished, kings slain, and all in such
confusion and hurry," as to be devoid of "satisfaction and pleasure"; and the Rev. Thomas Hunter
likens these mean tribes so signalized by immortality to the ill-conditioned natives of India
whom the Great Mogul styled "Mountain Rats."

XII. Another great resemblance which induces the reader to believe that both parts of the Annals
were composed by a single author is a monotony so very peculiar as to be characteristic of
the same individual: it is a monotony quite equal to that of an ancient mansion in an English
county, where one passes from apartment to apartment to be reminded of Gray's "Long Story,"
for the rooms are still spacious, the ceilings still fretted, the panels still gilded, the
portraits still those of beauties rustling in silks and tissues, and still those of grave Lord
Keepers in high crowned hats and green stockings;--or the monotony is like that which meets
one when walking about a town, where at the corners of all the streets and squares and the
beginning and end of every bridge and viaduct; the entrance to a palace or a public office;
the gateway to a market or a subway, a park or a garden; the foot of a lamp-post or a statue;
a curbstone running round an open space, or a wall abutting on a roadway, the same thing is
always found for the purpose of keeping off the wheels of vehicles as they roll by,--a round
stone: so one finds in the Annals always the same form given to every subject: that form is
policy; through policy everything is done; by policy every person is actuated; policy is the
motive of every action; policy is the solution of every difficulty.

Augustus on his deathbed chooses a worse master than himself to be his successor in order that
his loss may be the more regretted by the State. Tiberius makes Piso governor of Syria only
that he may have a spy for Germanicus as governor of Egypt, for he was envious of the fame
and virtues of the successful, popular young general. Nero sends Sylla into exile from mistaking
his dullness for dissimulation. Arruntius kills himself because he is intolerant of iniquity.
The stupidity of Claudius is discovered to be astuteness, the bestialities of Nero elegance.
Nothing is easy, nothing natural; everything is forced, everything artificial.

XIII. Nor does Bracciolini shine as a depicter of character. What a contrast between him and
Livy in that respect! And as a describer of imperial occurrences, what a contrast between him
and Tacitus! He does not touch the Paduese in his grand form of painting all people and all
things in their proper colours: Livy places before us the Kings of old Rome in their pride
and the Consuls in their variety; the former with their fierce virtue, the latter with their
degraded love of luxury;--Decemvirs in the austerity of their rule and Tribunes with their
popular impulses. Tacitus makes us see the movements of mighty events, as clearly as we behold
objects shining in the broad light of day,--their vicissitudes, relations, causes and issues;--armies
with their temper and feelings; provinces with their disposition and sentiments;--the Empire
in the elements of its strength and weakness; the Capital in its distracted and fluctuating
state; --all political phaenomena that marked the dreary reality of dominion in the declining
days of the Roman Commonwealth. But Bracciolini puts before us nothing like this;--only incongruous,
unimaginable and un-Romanlike personages,--people who gibber at us, as idiots in their asylums,
as that unfortunate simpleton, the Emperor Claudius;--murderous criminals who glower and scowl
upon us, as those two monsters of iniquity, Tiberius and Nero;--pimps and parasites beyond
number, who so plague us with their perpetual presence, that the revolted soul at length wonders
how so many such beings can be acting together, and be so degenerate, when Nature might have
designed most, if not all, of them, for greater and more salutary purposes. While Bracciolini
does not, in the least, resemble either of the two great historians of Rome, he is the very
reverse of the historical classic of Spain, Mariana, who, in the thirty volumes of his Historia
de Rebus Hispaniae, places before us the different characters of different people, distinguishing
Mussulmans from Christians, Moors from Arabs, and Carthaginians from Romans; whereas, in the
Annals, we perceive no difference between the Parthians and the Suevians, the Romans and the
Germans, the Dandarides and the Adiabenians, the Medes and the Iberians. Polysyllabic words
ending consecutive sentences. --XIV. Omission of prepositions: (a) in; (b) with names of nations.

I. Any student of Thucydides and Tacitus must have observed that, though both support their
opinions by sober, rational remarks, Thucydides expresses himself with logical accuracy in
the calm and cold phraseology of passionless prose, whereas Tacitus ever and anon indulges
in figures of rhetoric and poetic diction.

He changes things which can be considered only with reference to thought into solid, visible
forms, as when he speaks of "wounds," instead of "the wounded," being taken to mothers and
wives: "ad matres, ad conjuges vulnera ferunt" (Germ. 7). He ascribes to the lifeless what
can be properly attributed only to the living, as when he makes "day and the plain reveal,"
"detexit dies et campus" (Hist. II. 62). He speaks of things done in a place as if they were
done by the place itself, as Judaea elevating Libanon into its principal mountain": "praecipuum
montium Libanon erigit" i.e., Judaea (Hist. V. 6). He applies epithets to objects that are
local, as if they were mental or moral, as we hear of "a chaste grove" ("nemus castum") in
the Germany (40).

Any one who had carefully analyzed his writings with the view of imitating him by forgery could
not have failed to notice this; the consequence is that if we were to have a forgery, we should
have a very close reproduction of this style of expression, and it would show itself to be
forgery, by being without the boldness, spontaneity and novelty of the original; it would be
timid, forced, and elaborately close and cramped. Now just this copying of a fabricator is
what we find in the Annals. Exactly corresponding, to Tacitus's "wounds" instead of "the wounded,"
is seeing blood streaming in families," meaning "suicides," and "the hands of executioners,"
meaning "the executed": "aspiciens undantem per domos sanguinem aut manus carnificum (An. VI.
39). Precisely akin to Tacitus's "day and the plain revealing" is "night bursting into wickedness":
"noctem in scelus erupturam" (An. I. 28). For "a country lifting up a mountain into its highest
altitude," is the analogous substitute, "the upper part of a town on fire burning everything":
"incensa super villa omnes cremavit" (An. III. 37): Here, too, is a further extension of poetical
phraseology, more clearly proving forgery by denoting the hand of nobody so much as Bracciolini,
who was remarkably fond of borrowing the language of Virgil, (never resorted to by Tacitus),
"super" for "desuper":

    "Haec super e vallo prospectant Troies"
    (Aen. IX. 168).

For Tacitus's "chaste grove" we have the expression, like the note of a mockbird, "just places",--when
places do not favour either combatant: ("fundi Germanos acie et justis locis" An. II. 5).

This imitation is found not only in the first but also in the last part of the Annals.

By tropes of verbs, nouns, adjectives, and in other ways, Tacitus produces effects that we
look for in poets, but not in historians, as he uses "bosom" or "lap" ("sinus"), in the metaphorical
sense of a "hiding place", ("latebrae"), in the History (II. 92), and of "a retreat", ("recessus"),
in the Agricola (30). So, instead of his "bosom," or "lap", for "hiding place," or "retreat,"
we find "tears" for "weeping persons," where Seneca endeavours to recall his distracted friends
to composure by words of suasion or authority: "Simul lacrymas eorum modo sermone, modo intentior
in modum coercentis, ad firmitudinem revocat" (An. XV. 62).

The close crampness of the whole of these instances raises a very strong suspicion that it
cannot be the writing of Tacitus, but merely a servile imitation of his manner. It shows, too,
that both parts of the Annals proceeded from the same hand.

II. When in the course of the autumn before last an announcement was made of this work in some
of the public journals, the compliment was paid to me in one of the most enlightened of them,
the Daily News, by a brilliant and learned writer, who was a perfect master of his subject,
questioning whether it could be possible that Bracciolini had forged the Annals, on account
of his mode of composition being so thoroughly different from that of Tacitus. The passages
of Bracciolini were properly pronounced to be florid at times, and to bear resemblance to the
high-flown magniloquence of Chateaubriand rather than the classic staidness of Tacitus. I have
already pointed out how varied was Bracciolini in style, and his variety proved how by an effort
he could, if it pleased him, imitate anybody. Still there is truth in the remark, that let
him be as guarded as he might, he would, sometimes, fall quite unconsciously into a natural
peculiarity.

I cannot do better than give the four instances that are adduced by Famianus Strada in his
Prolusions (II. 3) by way of illustrating how every now and then Bracciolini wrote sentences
that are marked by the qualities of poetry rather than of prose.

The first occurs in the eleventh book, where Messalina is described in the following manner:
"such was her furious lust, that, in mid autumn, she would celebrate in her home the vintage
festival; the presses were plied, the vats flowed, and women girt with skins bounded about
like sacrificing or raving Bacchantes, she, with hair flowing loosely, waving the thyrsus,
and Silius by her side wreathed with ivy and shod with the cothurnus, tossing his head, while
a crew of female wantons shrieked around them":--"Messalina non alias solutior luxu, adulto
autumno, simulacrum vindemiae per domum celebrabat: urgeri prela, fluere lacus, et faeminae
pellibus accinetae assultabant, ut sacrificantes vel insanientes Bacchae; ipsa crine fluxo,
thyrsum quatiens, juxtaque Silius hedera vinetus, gerere cothurnos, jacere caput, strepente
circum procaci choro." (An. XI. 31).

The second instance given by Famianus Strada is in the first part of the Annals, where the
Roman commander in Lower Germany, Aulus Caecina, is beset by Armin and the Germans at the causeway
called the Long Bridges. Speaking of both armies, the historian says: "It was a restless night
to them from different causes whilst the barbarians with their festive carousals, their triumphal
songs or their savage yells woke the echoes in the low-lying parts of the vallies and the resounding
groves, among the Romans there were feeble fires, broken murmurs, and everywhere the sentinels
leant drooping against the pales, or wandered about the tents more asleep than awake: awful
dreams, too, horrified the commander; for he seemed to see and hear Quinctilius Varus, smeared
with blood and rising out of the marsh, calling aloud, as it were, to him he paying no heed,
and pushing back the hand that was held forth to him." "Nox per diversa inquies: cum barbari
festis epulis, laeto cantu aut truci sonore subjecta vallium ac resultantis saltus complerent;
apud Romanos invalidi ignes, interruptae voces, atque ipsi passim adjacerent vallo, oberrarent
tentoriis, insomnes magis quam pervigiles; ducemque terruit dira quies: nani Quinctilium Varum
sanguine oblitum et paludibus emersum, cernere et audire visus est, velut vocantem, non tamen
obsecutus, et manum intendentis repulisse" (An. I. 65). [Endnote 357]

Famianus Strada was also struck at the extravagantly florid phraseology in the fifteenth book
with respect to Scaevina's dagger being sharpened to a point the day before the intended execution
of a plot: "Finding fault with the poniard which he drew from its sheath that it was blunted
by time, he gave orders it should be whetted on a stone, and be made to FLAME UP into a point."
"Promptam vagina pugionem 'vetustatem obtusum,' increpans, asperari saxo, et in mucronem ARDESCERE"
(An. XV. 24).

High-flown, poetical language is also used in the first book when the Romans visit the scene
of the defeat of Varus. "Caecina," says the historian, "having been sent on to explore the
hidden recesses of the forest, and make bridges and conveyances over the waters of the bog
and the insecure places in the plains, the soldiers reach the sad spot, hideous both in its
appearance and from association." "Praemisso Caecina, ut occulta saltuum scrutaretur, pontesque
et aggeres humido paludum et fallacibus campis imponeret, incedunt moestos locos, visuque ac
memoria deformes" (An. I. 61).

III. A writer so poetically inclined would naturally fall every now and then without being
aware of it into metrical composition; Bracciolini frequently does so: for instance: writing
to his friend Niccoli from London, he says that at that moment he fancies he is speaking to
him, "hearing his tones and returning his speeches": --"jam jam videor tecum loqui, et au/dire
no/tas et/reddere voces" (Ep. II. 1).

In another of his letters he falls into hexametrical measure: "la/bris nos/tris om/ni re/rum
strepi/tu vacu/us" (Ep. II. 17), about as inharmonious as the complete, inelegant hexameter
which we find him writing in the opening words of the Annals:--

 "Urbem / Romam a / principi/o re/ges habu/ere."

The whole of this is in imitation of his two favorite authors, --Sallust, who occasionally
wrote in hexametrical measure as, "ex vir/tute fu/it mul/ta et prae/clara re/i mili/taris."
Jug. V.; --and Livy, who, if Sallust sometimes exceeded the number of feet, sometimes fell
short of them, as in the opening words of the Preface to his History: "factu rusne oper/ae
preti/um sim."

IV. Another circumstance which causes us to credit Bracciolini with having written the first
part of the Annals is that we find there certain poetical or figurative words, which are nowhere
to be found in any of the works of Tacitus. One of these is "pessum dare," which means literally
"to sink to the bottom," but is figuratively used for "destroying" or "ruining," as when Bracciolini
in one of his letters says that he is "desirous of guarding against the weight of present circumstances
sinking him to the bottom," that is "ruining him:" "id vellem curare, ne praesentiarum onus
me pessumdaret" (Ep. II. 3). So in the first book of the Annals (9), he speaks of Mark Antony
being "sunk to the bottom," that is "ruined" "by his sensualities": "per libidines pessum datus
sit"; or of the over-eagerness of Brutidius to grasp at honours undoing him, as it had "sunk
to the bottom" "many, even good men": "multos etiam bonos pessumdedit" (An. III. 66).

Bracciolini uses "voluntas" as the equivalent of "benevolentia." In the second "Disceptatio"
of his Historia Tripartita, "where he means to speak of laws being framed for the good they
do the greatest number," he expresses himself: "leges pro voluntate" (i.e. benevolentia) "majorum
conditae" (Op. p. 38). So in the first part of the Annals when he says that "there was no getting
any good to be done by Sejanus except by committing crime," he expresses himself in the same
way: "neque Sejani voluntas" (i.e. benevolentia) "nisi scelere, quaerebatur" (An. IV. 68).

V. The meaning "to disgrace," or "dishonour" is given to the verb "foedare." In the first part
of the Annals when it is said that silk clothes are a disgrace to men," the expression is "vestis
serica viros foedat" (II. 33). When in the last part eloquence (periphrastically styled "the
first of the fine arts") is spoken of as "disgraced when turned to sordid purposes," the phrase
is "bonarum artium principem sordidis ministeriis foedari" (An. XI. 6). This meaning is not
to be found in any ancient Roman work, in prose or poetry; it might then be taken to be mediaeval;
but it seems to be classical; for this reason: Bracciolini in one of his letters to Niccoli
says, and truly enough, that he had formed himself on Cicero: whence it is easy to see that
the idea occurred to him of coining that signification for the verb from the meaning which
is given to the adjective by the writer whom he regarded as the greatest among the Romans,
for Cicero certainly gives that meaning to "foedus" in this passage in his "Atticus" (VIII.
11) "nihil fieri potest miserius, nihil perditius, nihil foedius," that is, "nothing can be
more miserably, nothing more flagitiously, nothing more disgracefully done"; and this other
passage in his Offices (I. 34): "lust is most disgraceful to old age": "luxuria ... senectuti
foedissima est": directly following Cicero, and altogether ignoring Tacitus, Bracciolini in
the first part of the Annals, when speaking of the dishonourable fawning of the Roman senators,
expresses "that disgraceful servility," "foedum illud servitium" (IV. 74).

VI. As this is the language of Cicero, and not Tacitus, so we find in other places in both
parts of the Annals Bracciolini using the language of other leading Roman writers, in preference
to that of the historian whom he was feigning himself to be. The following few instances will
suffice:--Tacitus makes the adjective agree with the substantive: Livy does not. In imitation
of Livy Bracciolini, throughout both parts of the Annals, puts the adjective in the neuter,
and makes the substantive depend upon it in the genitive. Tacitus never uses the rare form
"jutum." It is used in both parts of the Annals (III. 35, XIV. 4). Quintus Curtius uses the
form of ere instead of erunt as the termination of the third person plural of the perfect active:
it is then in imitation of Quintus Curtius that Bracciolini uses the form ere so constantly
throughout the Annals. Tacitus always uses "dies" in the masculine, but Livy sometimes in the
feminine when speaking of a specified day. "Postera die" in the third book of the Annals (10
in.) is then more in the style of Livy than Tacitus.

As for Sallust, Bracciolini was never able to conceal his unbounded admiration of him; nor
forbear from imitating him: this did not escape the notice of his contemporaries, who likened
him to that ancient historian: he is perpetually borrowing his phrases, from the very first
words in the Annals: "Urbem Romam a principio reges habuere," after Sallust's "Urbem Romam
... habuere initio Trojani" (Cat. 6) down to the close of his forgery, as in the XVth book
(36), "haec atque talia plebi volentia fuere," after Sallust's "multisque suspicionibus plebi
volentia facturus habebatur" (Fragmenta. Lib. IV. Delph. Ed. p. 317). To give a few instances
from the First Six Books of the Annals: his "ambulantis Tiberii genua advolveretur" (I. 13)
is Sallust's "genua patrum" advol- vuntur (Fragm.): his "adepto principatu" (I. 7) is Sallust's
"magistratus adeptus" (Jug. IV.), and "adepta libertate" (Cat.7): his "spirantem adhuc Augustum"
(I. 5) is Sallust's "Catilina paullulam etiam spirans" (Cat. in fin. 61): his "excepere Graeci
quaesitissimis honoribus" (II. 53) is Sallust's "epulae quaesitis- simae" (Frag.): his "magnitudinem
paecuniae malo vertisse" (VI. 7) is Sallust's "magnitudine paecuniae a bono honestoque in pravum
abstractus est" (Jug. 24); and numerous other phrases are so precisely and peculiarly of the
same kind as Sallust's, that we know they were taken or stolen from him. But Tacitus does not
borrow from anybody; he is himself a great original. As in his unadmitted forgeries, so in
his acknowledged works, whether it be a treatise as in his "De Miseria Humanae Conditionis"
(I. Op. p. 107), Bracciolini goes on borrowing his choice phrases from Sallust, as "libidini
obnoxios fortuna fecit," which is Sallust's "neque delicto, neque libidini obnoxius" (Cat.
52); or whether it be one of his Funeral Orations as in that over Cardinal Florian (Op. p.
258), "nunquam ne parvula quidem nota ejus fama labefactaretur," or one of his essays, as that
from which we have just quoted,--"On the Misery of the Human Condition,"--"vires Imperii labefactarent
flagitiis" (Op. p. 125), which are both Sallust's "vitiis obtentui quibus labefactatis" (Fragm.
p. 357).

So he prefers Sallust's archaic word "inquies"; for just as Sallust writes "humanum ingenium
inquies atque indomitum" (Frag. Lib. p. 172), he, too, writes "nox per diversa inquies" (I.
65), and "dies ploratibus inquies" (An. III. 4), forgetting that Tacitus always uses the modern
word, "inquietus," as "inquieta urbs" (Hist. I. 20).

VII. The phrase in the Annals "non modo ... sed," instead of "non modo ... sed etiam" is peculiar,
being at variance with the measured style of all the old Roman writers. It occurs several times
in the first part, as "non modo portus et proxima maris, sed moenia ac tecta" (III. 1), as
well as in the last part, "non modo milites, sed populus" (XVI. 3). In both instances Tacitus
would have written "sed etiam moenia--sed etiam populus."

Nor would Tacitus have erred in using the anomalous expressions pointed out by Nicholas Aagard
in his treatise about him, entitled "In C.C. Tacitum Disputatio." Tacitus would never have
written, as in the Fourth Book of the Annals (56): "missa navali copia, non modo externa ad
bella"; he would have used the plural instead of the singular; and, just as he would have used
"copiis" instead of "copia", he would have used "ejus" for "sua" in this passage in the sixth
book (6): "adeo facinora atque flagitia sua ipsi quoque in supplicium verterant":--we know
that he would not have constructed an adjective in the positive when it ought to be in the
comparative, as: "quanto quis audacia promtus" (An. I. 57); for we have almost just seen how
in such a phrase he properly constructs promtus in the comparative: "tanto ad discordias promtior"
(Hist. II. 99).

VIII.--He now and then forgets himself by using words that clearly never could have been known
to Tacitus, because they were words that sprang up in an after age. Thus on one occasion he
is led into this error from the desire to express a poetical idea by a poetical word: just
as Statius writes "distinctus" in the sense that his predecessors of ages before had used "distinctio":

    "Viridis quum regula longo
    Synnada distinctu variat:"
    Sylv. I. 5. 41.;

so he falls into the blunder of making Tacitus say;--"ore ac distinctu pennarum a ceteris avibus
diversum" (An. VI. 28); at the same time he commits another mistake, of which he is repeatedly
guilty, and which a Roman carefully avoided--using the rhythm of the hexameter in prose,--(if
the Greek quantity with "ceterus" be taken:--

    "penna/rum a cete/ris avi/bus di/versum."

In both parts of the Annals "codicillus" is used in the plural as signifying "the codicil to
a will" (VI. 9): "precatusque per codicillos, immiti rescripto, venas absolvit"; and in An.
XV. 64 Seneca is described as "writing in the codicil of his will" "in codicillis rescripserat."
Such Latin not only would not have been written but would not have been even understood by
Tacitus; because when he lived his countrymen confined the meaning of "codicillus" to a wooden
table for writing on, and thence, figuratively, for "a note" or "letter": it was not till several
centuries after,--the first part of the fifth (409-450),--in the reign of the Emperor Theodosius
the Younger, that the lawyers used the word to signify "an imperial patent or diploma"; for
"codicillariae dignitates" in the Theodosian Codex (VI. 22. 7) means "offices given by the
patent of the Emperor." It is also put here and there in the same Codex (VIII. 18. 7 and XVI.
5. 40) for the "codicil to a will"; but it is used in the singular: the meaning so given to
it in the plural, (as in both parts of the Annals), did not come into vogue till a century
after, in the time of Justinian, as may be seen by consulting the Twenty-ninth Chapter of the
Pandects which treats of the Law of Codicils ("De Jure Codicillorum"); and Marcian is quoted
to this effect: that "a man who can make a will can, certainly, also make a codicil", the language
being "codicillos is demum facere potest, qui et testamentum facere potest" (Lib. VI. c. 3.
Marcian VII. Instit.). It looks then tolerably clear that the author of the Annals got his
Latin about "codicillus" in the plural signifying the "codicil to a will" either from the Institutes
of Marcian or the Pandects of Justinian.

IX. Alliterations occur in the Annals at the end of words four times repeated, as "Cui superpositum
convivium navium aliarum tractu moverentur" (XV. 37), which is in the style not of Tacitus,
but Bracciolini, as "ad liberandos praeclarissimos illos viros ex ergastulis barbarorum," already
quoted from the treatise "De Infelicitate Principum"; or "multis captis, trecentis occisis,"
in his History of Florence (Lib. V. See Muratori XX. p.346).

Another very peculiar alliteration of Bracciolini's is with the
letter c. Sometimes he alternates it after two words, as in
a letter to his friend Niccoli, Commisi hoc idem cuidam amico
meo civi Senensi" (Ep. II. 3), exactly as we find it towards the
beginning of the first book of the Annals (9) Cuncta inter se
connexa: jus apud cives modestiam"; or at the end of the second
book (88): cum varia fortuna certaret, dolo propinquorum cecidit
liberator." He repeats, too, this favourite alliteration four times,
sometimes after one word, sometimes after two, as in a letter to
Cardinal Julian, the Pope's Legate in Germany: "certissima quadam
conjectura, qua praeteritis connectens praesentia causasque"
(Op. p. 309). In his History of Florence this quadrupled alliteration
of c occurs thus (Lib. But these alliterations with c four
times repeated, which occur frequently in the Annals generally take
place with three or more words intervening between each alliteration,
as in this sentence in the first part: "confertus pedes, dispositae
turmae cuncta praelio provisa: hostibus contra, omnium nesciis,
non arma, non ordo, non consilium" (An. IV. 25); or in this sentence
in the last part: "compertum sibi, referens, ex commentariis patris
sui nullam cujusquam accusationem ab eo coactam."
(XIII.
    Aen. VIII. 353-4.

But it is not at all in imitation of the manner of Tacitus, who, certainly, sometimes has an
alliteration after two words, but it is not with the letter c, nor does he alternate it; if
an alliteration again occurs immediately afterwards, it is of quite a different character,
as in his Agricola (45): "omnia sine dubio, optime parentum, assidente amantissima uxore";
and in his History (III. 36) "praeterita, instantia, futura, pari oblivione dimiserat; atque
illum in nemore Aricino."

Bracciolini distinctly shows himself to be the author of the Annals by a very peculiar kind
of composition to which he is uncommonly partial,--joining together with an enclitic polysyllabic
words of the same length and the same long ending, as "contemplationem cogitationemque" in
his "De Miseria Humanae Conditionis" (Op. p. 130); in the first part of the Annals, "extollebatur,
arguebaturque" (I. 9) and in the last part, respectantes, rogitantesque" (An. XII. 69);--and
it is difficult to say whether this is to be found oftener in his acknowledged productions
or in his famous forgery.

He is much given to placing together several words ending with i, as in the first part of the
Annals: "sed pecorum modo, trahi, occidi, capi" (IV. 25); and in the last part "illustri memoria
Poppaei Sabini consulari" (XIII. 45).

