  "'Yesterday morning, March 30th, a company of infantry, having
  received orders to the railroad front, was ordered out of the barracks
  for the purpose of packing sleds for the trip across the river to the
  railroad station. The non-commissioned officer that was in charge of
  the packing soon reported to the officers that the men refused to
  obey. At this some of the officers took charge, and all except one man
  began reluctantly to pack after a considerable delay. The soldier who
  continued to refuse was placed in confinement. Colonel Stewart, having
  been sent for, arrived and had the men assembled to talk with them.
  Upon the condition that the prisoner above mentioned was released, the
  men agreed to go. This was done, and the company then proceeded to the
  railway station and entrained there for the front. That they would not
  go to the front line positions was openly stated by the men, however,
  and they would only go to Obozerskaya. They also stated that general
  mutiny would soon come if there was not some definite movement
  forthcoming from Washington with regard to the removal of American
  troops from Russia at the earliest possible date.'

"The War Department on April 10, 1919, authorized the publication of this cablegram, and on
April 12, 1919, authorized the statement that the report from Murmansk was to the effect that
the organization which was referred to was Company "I" of the 339th Infantry, and that the
dispatch stated:

  "'It is worthy to note that the questions that were put to the
  officers by the men were identical with those that the Bolshevik
  propaganda leaflets advised them to put to them.'

"If reports differing from the above appeared in the newspapers, they were secured from sources
other than the War Department and published without its authority.

"On March 16, 1920, Brigadier General Wilds P. Richardson, U. S. Army, was ordered by the Commanding
General, American Expeditionary Forces, to proceed to North Russia and to assume command of
the American Forces in that locality. General Richardson arrived at Murmansk on April 8, 1920,
where it was reported to him that a company of American troops at Archangel had mutinied and
that his presence there was urgently needed. He arrived at Archangel on April 17, 1920, and
found that conditions had been somewhat exaggerated, especially in respect to the alleged mutiny
of the company of the 339th Infantry. General Richardson directed an investigation of this
matter by the Acting Inspector General, American Forces in North Russia. This officer states
the facts to be as follows:

  "'Company "I", 339th Infantry, was in rest area at Smallney Barracks,
  in the outskirts of Archangel, Russia, when orders were received to go
  to the railroad point and relieve another company. The following
  morning the first sergeant ordered the company to turn out and load
  sleds. He reported to the captain that the men did not respond as
  directed. The captain then went to the barracks and demanded of the
  men standing around the stove: "Who refuses to turn out and load
  sleds?" No reply from the men. The captain then asked the trumpeter,
  who was standing nearby, if he refused to turn out and load the sleds,
  and the trumpeter replied he was ready if the balance were, but that
  he was not going out and load packs of others on the sleds by himself,
  or words to that effect. The captain then went to the phone and
  reported the trouble as "mutiny" to Col. Stewart, the Commanding
  Officer, American Forces in North Russia. Col. Stewart directed him to
  have the men assemble in Y. M. C. A. hut and he would be out at once
  and talk to them. The colonel arrived and read the Article of War as
  to mutiny and talked to the men a few minutes. He then said he was
  ready to answer any questions the men cared to ask. Some one wanted to
  know 'What are we here for and what are the intentions of the U. S.
  Government?' The colonel answered this as well as he could. He then
  asked if there was anyone of the company who would not obey the order
  to load the sleds; if so, step up to the front. No one moved. The
  colonel then directed the men to load the sleds without delay, which
  was done.

  "'The testimony showed that the captain commanding Company "I", 339th
  Infantry, did not order his company formed nor did he ever give a direct
  order for the sleds to be loaded. He did not report this trouble to the
  commanding officer (a field officer) of Smallney Barracks, but
  hastened to phone his troubles to the Commanding Officer, American
  Forces in North Russia.'

"The inspector further states that the company was at the front when the investigation was
being made (May, 1919) and that the service of all concerned, at that time, was considered
satisfactory by the battalion commander.

"The conclusions of the inspector were that from such evidence as could be obtained the alleged
mutiny was nothing like as serious as had been reported, but that it was of such a nature that
it could have been handled by a company officer of force.

"The inspector recommended to the Commanding General, American Forces, North Russia, that the
matter be dropped and considered closed. The Commanding General, American Forces, North Russia,
concurred in this recommendation.

"General Richardson, in his report of operations on the American Forces in North Russia, referring
to this matter states:

  "'MORALE. Archangel and North Russia reflected in high degree during
  the past winter the disturbed state of the civilized world after four
  years of devastating war. The military situation was difficult and at
  times menacing.

  "'Our troops in this surrounding, facing entirely new experiences and
  uncertain as to the future, bore themselves as a whole with courageous
  and creditable spirit. It was inevitable that there should be unrest,
  with some criticism and complaint, which represented the normal per
  cent chargeable to the human equation under such conditions. This
  culminated, shortly before my arrival, in a temporary disaffection of
  one of the companies. This appears not to have extended beyond the
  privates in ranks, and was handled by the regimental commander with
  discretion and good judgment.

  "'This incident was given wide circulation in the States, and I am
  satisfied from my investigation that an exaggerated impression was
  created as to its seriousness. It is regrettable that it should have
  happened at all, to mar in any degree the record of heroic and valiant
  service performed by this regiment under very trying conditions.' "The
  above are the facts in regard to this matter, and it is hoped that
  this information may meet your requirements.
                                          "Very sincerely yours,
                                          "NEWTON D. BAKER,
                                          "Secretary of War."

However, as a matter of history the facts must be told in this volume. "I" Company of the 339th
Infantry, commanded by Captain Horatio G. Winslow, was on the 30th of March stationed at Smolny
Barracks, Archangel, Russia. It had been resting for a few days there after a long period of
service on the front. The spirit of the men had been high for the most part, although as usual
in any large group of soldiers at rest there was some of what Frazier Hunt, the noted war correspondent,
calls "good, healthy grousing." The men had the night before given a fine minstrel entertainment
in the Central Y. M. C. A.

Group psychology and atmospheric conditions have to be taken into consideration at this point.
By atmospheric conditions we mean the half-truths and rumors and expressions of feeling that
were in the air. A sergeant of the company questioned carefully by the writer states positively
that the expressions of ugliness were confined to comparatively few members of the company.
The feeling seemed to spread through the company that morning that some of the men were going
to speak their minds.

Here another fact must be introduced. A few nights before this there had been a fire in camp
that spread to their barracks and burned the company out, resulting in the splitting of the
company into two separated parts, and in giving the little first sergeant and commanding officer
inconvenience in conveying orders and directions to the men. And it was rumored in the morning
in one barracks that the men of the other barracks were starting something. The platoon officer
in command there had gone to the front to make arrangements for the billeting and transportation
of troops, who were to start that day for the front some several miles south of Obozerskaya.
Now the psychology began to work. Why hurry the loading, let's see what the men of that platoon
now will do.

The captain notices the delay in proceedings. He has heard a little something of what is in
the air. It is nothing serious, yet he is nervous about it. His first sergeant, a nervous and
a nervy little man too, for Detroit has seen the Croix de Guerre he won, showed anxiety over
the dilatoriness of the men in loading the sleighs. And the men were only just human in wanting
to see what the captain was going to do about that other platoon that was rumored to be starting
something. Of course in the psychology of the thing it was not in their minds that they would
be called upon to express themselves. The others were going to do that.

But when the captain went directly to the men and asked them what they were thinking and feeling
they found themselves talking to him. Here and there a man spoke bitterly about the Russian
regiments in Archangel not doing anything but drill in Archangel. Of course he had only half-truth.
That is the way misunderstandings and bad feelings feed. At that moment a company of the Archangel
Regiment was at a desperate front, Bolsheozerki, standing shoulder to shoulder with "M" Company
out of "I" Company's own battalion. But these American soldiers at that moment with their feelings
growing warmer with expression of them, thought only of the drilling Russian soldiers in Archangel
and of the S. B. A. L. soldiers who had mutinied earlier in the winter and been subdued by
American soldiers in Archangel. And so if the truth be told, those soldiers spoke boldly enough
to their captain to alarm him. He thought that he really had a serious condition before him.

From remarks by the men he judged that for the sake of the men and the chief commanding officer,
Colonel Stewart, it would be well to have a meeting in the Y. M. C. A. where they could be
properly informed, where they could see ALL that was going on and not be deluded by the rumors
that other groups of the company were doing something else, and where the common sense of the
great, great majority of the men would show them the foolishness of the whole thing. And he
invited the colonel to appear.

Meanwhile the senior first lieutenant of the company, Lieut. Albert E. May, one of the levelest-headed
officers in the regiment, had put the first and only man who showed signs of insubordination
to an officer under arrest. It developed afterward that the lieutenant was a little severe
with the man as he really had not understood the command, he being a man who spoke little English
and in the excitement was puzzled by the order and showed the "hesitation" of which so much
was made in the wild accounts that were published. This arrest was afterward corrected when
three sergeants of the platoon assured the officer that the man had not really intended insubordination.

It is regrettable that the War Department was so nervous about this affair that it would be
fooled into making the explanation of this "hesitation" on the ground of the man's Slavic genesis
and the pamphlet propaganda of the Reds. The first three men who died in action were Slavs.
The Slavs who went from Hamtramck and Detroit to Europe made themselves proud records as fighters.
Hundreds of them who had not been naturalized were citizens before they took off the O. D.
uniform in which they had fought. It was a cruel slur upon the manhood of the American soldier
to make such explanations upon such slight evidences. It would seem as though the War Department
could have borne the outcry of the people till the Commanding Officer of those troops could
send detailed report. And as for the Red pamphlets, every soldier in North Russia was disgusted
with General March's explanations and comments.

To return to the account, let it be said, Colonel Stewart, when he appeared at the Y. M. C.
A. saw no murmurous, mutinous, wildly excited men, such as the mob psychology of a mutiny would
necessarily call for. Instead, he saw men seated orderly and respectfully. And they listened
to his remarks that cleared up the situation and to his proud declaration that American soldiers
on duty never quit till the job is done or they are relieved. Questions were allowed and were
answered squarely and plainly.

While the colonel had been coming from his headquarters the remainder of the loading had been
done under direction of Lieut. May as referred to before, and at the conclusion of the colonel's
address, Captain Winslow moved his men off across the frozen Dvina, proceeded as per schedule
to Obozerskaya, put them on a troop train, and as related elsewhere took over the front line
at a critical time, under heavy attack, and there the very next day after the little disaffection
and apparent insubordination, which was magnified into a "mutiny," his company added a bright
page to its already shining record as fighters. The editors have commented upon this at another
place in the narrative. We wish here to state that we do not see how an unbiased person could
apply so harsh a term as mutiny to this incident.

The allegation has been proved to be false. There was no mutiny. Any further repetition of
the allegation will be a cruel slander upon the good name of the heroic men who were killed
in action or died of wounds received in action in that desperate winter campaign in the snows
of Russia. And further repetition of the allegation will be insult to the brave men who survived
that campaign and now as citizens have a right to enjoy the commendations of their folks and
friends and fellow citizens because of the remarkably good record they made in North Russia
as soldiers and men.

XXXI

OUR ALLIES, FRENCH, BRITISH AND RUSSIANS

Kaleidoscopic Picture And Chop Suey Talk In Archangel--Poilu Comrades--Captain Boyer--Dupayet,
Reval And Major Alabernarde--"Ze French Sarzhont, She Say"--Scots And British Marines Fine
Soldiers--Canadians Popular--Yorks Stand Shoulder To Shoulder--Tribute To General Ironside--Daredevil
"Bob" Graham Of "Australian Light Horse"--Commander Young Of Armored Train--Slavo-British Allied
Legion--French Legion--White Guards--Archangel Regiments--Chinese--Deliktorsky, Mozalevski, Akutin.

What a kaleidoscopic recollection of uniforms and faces we have when one asks us about our
allies in North Russia. What a mixture of voices, of gutturals and spluttering and yeekings
and chatterings, combined with pursing of lips, eyebrow-twistings, bugging eyes, whiskers and
long hair, and common hand signs of distress or delight or urgency or decisiveness: Nitchevo,
bonny braw, tres bien, khorashaw, finish, oi soiy, beaucoup, cheerio, spitzka, mozhnya barishna,
c'mon kid, parlezvous, douse th' glim, yah ocean, dobra czechinski, amia spigetam, ei geh ha
wa yang wa, lubloo, howse th' chow, pardonne, pawrdun, scuse, eesveneets,--all these and more
too, strike the ear of memory as we tread again the board sidewalks of far off smelly Archangel.

What antics we witnessed, good humored miscues and errors of form in meeting our friends of
different lands all gathered there in the strange potpourri. Soldiers and "civies" of high
and low rank, cultured and ignorant, and rich and poor, hearty and well, and halting and lame,
mingled in Archangel, the half-shabby, half-neat, half-modern, half-ancient, summer-time port
on the far northern sea. Rags and red herrings, and broadcloth and books, and O. D. and Khaki,
and horizon blue, crowded the dinky ding-ding tramway and counted out kopecs to the woman conductor.

And many are the anecdotes that are told of men and occasions in North Russia where some one
of our allies or bunch of them figures prominently, either in deed of daring, or deviltry,
or simply good humor. Chiefly of our own buddies we recall such stories to be sure, but in
justice to the memory of some of the many fine men of other lands who served with us we print
a page or two of anecdotes about them. And we hope that some day we may show them Detroit or
some other good old American burg, or honk-honk them cross country through farm lands we now
better appreciate than before we saw Europe, by woods, lake and stream to camp in the warm
summer, or spend winter nights in a land with us as hosts, a land where life is really worth
living.

Those "mah-sheen" gunners in blue on the railroad who stroked their field pets with pride and
poured steady lines of fire into the pine woods where lay the Reds who were encircling the
Americans with rifle and machine gun fire. How the Yankee soldiers liked them. And many a pleasant
draught they had from the big pinaud canteen that always came fresh from the huge cask. How
courteously they taught the doughboy machine gunner the little arts of digging in and rejoiced
at the rapid progress of the American.

How now, Paul, my poilu comrade, bon ami, why don't you add the house itself to the pack on
your back? Sure, you'll scramble along somehow to the rest of the camp in the rear, and on
your way you will pass bright remarks that we non compree but enjoy just the same, for we know
you are wishing the doughboy good luck. How droll your antics when hard luck surprises. We
swear and you grimace or paw wildly the air. And we share a common dislike for the asperity
shown by the untactful, inefficient, bulldozing old Jack.

Here is a good story that "Buck" Carlson used to tell in his inimitable way. Scene is laid
in the headquarters of the British Colonel who is having a little difficulty with his mixed
command that contains soldiers of America, France, Poland, China, where not, but very few from
England at that time. A French sergeant with an interpreter enters the room and salutes are
exchanged. The sergeant then orders his comrade to convey his request to the colonel.

"Ker-nell, par-don," says the little interpreter after a snappy French salute which is recognized
by a slight motion of the colonel's thumb in the general direction of his ear. "Ze sarzhont,
she say, zat ze French man will please to have ze tobak, ze masheen gun am-mu-nish-own and
ze soap."

"But, my man," says the colonel reddening, "I told you to tell the sergeant he should go on
as ordered and these things will come later, I have none of these things now to give him, but
they will soon arrive and he shall be supplied. But now he must hurry out with his detachment
of machine gunners to help the Americans. Go, my man." More salutes and another conversation
between the two French soldiers with arms and spit flying furiously.

"Ker-nell, sir, par-don, again, but ze sar-zhont, she say, zat wiz-out ze to-bak, ze am-mu-nish-own
and ze soap, he weel not go, par-don, ker-nell!"

This time the colonel was angered to popping point and he smote the table with a thump that
woke every bedbug and cockroach in the building and the poor French interpreter looked wildly
from the angry British colonel to his tough old French sergeant who now leaped quickly to his
side and barked Celtic rejoinder to the colonel's fist thumping language. No type could tell
the story of the critical next moment. Suffice it to say that after the storm had cleared the
colonel was heard reporting the disobedience to a French officer miles in the rear. The officer
had evidently heard quickly from his sergeant and was inclined to back him up, for in substance
he said to the offended British officer: "Wee, pardon, mon ker-nell, it eez bad," meaning I
am sorry, "but will ze gallant ker-nell please to remember zat consequently zare eez no French
offitzair wiz ze French de-tach-mont, ze sar-zhont will be treated wiz ze courtesy due to ze
offitzair."

And it was true that the sergeant, backed up by his French officer, refused to go as ordered
till his men had been supplied with the necessary ammunition and "ze to-bak and ze soap." The
incident illustrates the fact that the French officer's relation to his enlisted men is one
of cordial sympathy. He sees no great gulf between officer and enlisted man which the British
service persists to set up between officers and enlisted men.

Hop to it, now Frenchie, you surely can sling 'em. We need a whole lot from your 75's. We are
guarding your guns, do not fear for the flanks. Just send that barrage to the Yanks at the
front. And how they do send it. And we remember that the French artillery officers taught the
Russians how to handle the guns well and imbued them with the same spirit of service to the
infantry. And many a Red raid in force and well-planned attack was discouraged by the prompt
and well-put shrapnel from our French artillery.

And there was Boyer. First we saw him mud-spattered and grimy crawling from a dugout at Obozerskaya,
day after his men had won the "po-zee-shown." His animation he seems to communicate to his
leg-wearied men who crowd round him to hear that the Yanks are come to relieve them. With great
show of fun but serious intent, too, he "marries the squads" of Americans and Frenchies as
they amalgamate for the joint attack. "Kat-tsank-awn-tsank" comes to mean 455 as he talks first
in French to his poilus and then through our Detroit doughboy French interpreter to the doughboys.
Captain he is of a Colonial regiment, veteran of Africa and every front in Europe, with palm-leafed
war cross, highest his country can give him, Boyer. He relies on his soldiers and they on him.
"Fires on your outposts, captain?" "Oui, oui, nitchevo, not ever mind, oui, comrade," he said
laughingly. His soldiers built the fires so as to show the Reds where they dare not come. Truth
was he knew his men must dry their socks and have a warm spot to sit by and clean their rifles.
He trusted to their good sense in concealing the fire and to know when to run it very low with
only the glowing coals, to which the resting soldier might present the soles of his snoozing
shoes. Captain Boyer, to you, and to your men.

It is not easy to pass over the names of Dupayet and Reval and Alebernarde. For dynamic energy
the first one stands. For linguistic aid the second. How friendly and clear his interpretation
of the orders of the French command, given written or oral. Soldier of many climes he. With
songs of nations on his lips and the sparkle of mirth in his eye. "God Save the King," he uttered
to the guard as password when he supposed the outguard to be a post of Tommies, and laughingly
repeated to the American officer the quick response of the Yank sentry man who said: "To hell
with any king, but pass on French lieutenant, we know you are a friend."

And Alabernarde, sad-faced old Major du Battalion, often we see you passing among the French
and American soldiers along with Major Nichols. Your eyes are crow-tracked with experiences
on a hundred fields and your bronzed cheek hollowed from consuming service in the World War.
We see the affectionate glances of poilus that leap out at sight of you. You hastened the equipment
of American soldiers with the automatics they so much needed and helped them to French ordnance
stores generously. Fate treated you cruelly that winter and left you in a wretched dilemma
with your men in March on the railroad. We would forget that episode in which your men figured,
and remember rather the comradery of the fall days with them and the inspiration of your soldierly
excellence. To you, Major Alabernarde.

On the various fronts in the fall the doughboy's acquaintance with the British allies was limited
quite largely, and quite unfortunately we might say, to the shoulder strappers. And all too
many of those out-ranked and seemed to lord it over the doughboy's own officers, much to his
disgust and indignation. What few units of Scots and English Marines and Liverpools got into
action with the Americans soon won the respect and regard of the doughboys in spite of their
natural antipathy, which was edged by their prejudice against the whole show which was commonly
thought to be one of British conception. Tommie and Scot were often found at Kodish and Toulgas
and on the Onega sharing privations and meagre luxuries of tobacco and food with their recently
made friends among the Yanks.

And in the winter the Yorks at several places stood shoulder to shoulder with doughboys on
hard-fought lines. Friendships were started between Yanks and Yorks as in the fall they had
grown between Frenchies and Americans, Scots and Yanks, and Liverpools and Detroiters. Bitter
fighting on a back-to-the-wall defense had brought the English and American officers together
also. Arrogance and antipathy had both dissolved largely in the months of joint military operations
and better judgment and kinder feelings prevailed. Grievances there are many to be recalled.
And they were not all on one side. But except as they form part of the military narrative with
its exposure of causes and effects in the fall and winter and spring campaigns, those grievances
may mostly be buried. Rather may we remember the not infrequent incidents of comradeship on
the field or in lonely garrison that brightened the relationships between Scots and Yorks and
Marines and Liverpools in Khaki on the one hand and the O. D. cousins from over the sea who
were after all not so bad a lot, and were willing to acknowledge merit in the British cousin.

It must be said that Canadians, Scots, Yorks and Tommies stood in about this order in the affections
of the Yankee soldiers. The boys who fought with support of the Canadian artillery up the rivers
know them for hard fighters and true comrades. And on the railroad detachment American doughboys
one day in November were glad to give the Canadian officer complimentary present-arms when
he received his ribbon on his chest, evidence of his election to the D. S. O., for gallantry
in action. Loyally on many a field the Canadians stood to their guns till they were exhausted,
but kept working them because they knew their Yankee comrades needed their support.

One of the pictures in this volume shows a Yank and a Scot together standing guard over a bunch
of Bolshevik prisoners at a point up the Dvina River. American doughboys risked their lives
in rescuing wounded Scots and the writer has a vivid remembrance of seeing a fine expression
of comradeship between Yanks and Scots and American sailors starting off on a long, dangerous
march.

Mention has been made in another connection of the friendship and admiration of the American
soldiers for the men of the battalion of Yorks. In the three day's battle at Verst 18 a York
sergeant over and over assured the American officer that he would at all times have a responsible
York standing beside the Russki machine gunner and prevent the green soldiers from firing wildly
without order in case the Bolshevik should gain some slight advantage and a necessary shift
of American soldiers might be interpreted by the green Russian machine gunners as a movement
of the enemy. And those machine guns which were stationed at a second line, in rear of the
Americans, never went off. The Yorks were on the job. And after the crisis was past an American
corporal asked his company commander to report favorably upon the gallant conduct of a York
corporal who had stood by him with six men all through the fight.

Of the King's Liverpools and other Tommies mention has been made in these pages. Sometimes
we have to fight ourselves into favor with one another. Really there is more in common between
Yank and Tommie than there is of divergence. Hardship and danger, tolerance and observation,
these brought the somewhat hostile and easily irritated Yank and Tommie together. Down underneath
the rough slams and cutting sarcasm there exists after all a real feeling of respect for the other.

This volume would not be complete without some mention of that man who acted as commanding
general of the Allied expedition, William Edmund Ironside. He was every inch a soldier and
a man. American soldiers will remember their first sight of him. They had heard that a big
man up at Archangel who had taken Gen. Poole's job was cleaning house among the incompetents
and the "John Walkerites" that had surrounded G. H. Q. in Poole's time. He was putting pep
into G. H. Q. and reorganizing the various departments.

When he came, he more than came up to promises. Six foot-four and built accordingly, with a
bluff, open countenance and a blue eye that spoke honesty and demanded truth. Hearty of voice
and breathing cheer and optimism, General Ironside inspired confidence in the American troops
who had become very much disgruntled. He was seen on every front at some time and often seen
at certain points. By boat or sledge or plane he made his way through. He was the soldier's
type of commanding officer. Never dependent on an interpreter whether with Russian, Pole, or
French, or Serbian, or Italian, he travelled light and never was seen with a pistol, even for
protection. Master of fourteen languages it was said of him, holder of an Iron Cross bestowed
on him by the Kaiser in an African war when he acted as an ox driver but in fact was observing
for the British artillery, on whose staff he had been a captain though he was only a youth,
he was a giant intellectually as well as physically.

When British fighting troops could not be spared from the Western Front in the fall of 1918
and the British War Office gambled on sending category B men to Archangel--men not considered
fit to undergo active warfare, a good healthy general had to be found. Ironside, lover of forlorn
hopes, master of the Russian language, a good mixer, and experienced in dealing with amalgamated
forces, was the obvious man. Of course, there were some British officers who bemoaned the fact,
in range of American ears too, that some titled high ranking officers were passed over to reach
out to this Major of Artillery to act as Major-General. And he was on the youthful side of
forty, too.

Edmund Ironside ought to have been born in the days of Drake, Raleigh, and Cromwell. He would
have a bust in Westminster and his picture in the history books. But in his twenty years of
army life he has done some big things and it can be imagined with what gusto he received his
orders to relieve Poole and undertook to redeem the expedition, to make something of the perilous,
forlorn hope under the Arctic winter skies.

In The American Sentinel issue of December 10th, which was the first issue of our soldier paper,
we read:

  "It is a great honor for me to be able to address the first words in
  the first Archangel paper for American soldiers. I have now served in
  close contact with the U. S. Army for eighteen months and I am proud
  to have a regiment of the U. S. Army under my command in Russia.

  "I wish all the American soldiers the best wishes for the coming
  Christmas and New Year and I want them to understand that the Allied
  High Command takes the very greatest interest in their welfare at all
  times."
                                        EDMUND IRONSIDE, Major-General.

Without doubt the General was sincere in his efforts to bring about harmony and put punch and
strength into the high command sections as well as into the line troops. But what a bag Poole
left him to hold. Vexed to death must that big man's heart have been to spend so much time
setting Allies to rights who had come to cross purposes with one another and were blinded to
their own best interests. British thought he was too lenient with the willful Americans. Americans
thought he was pampering the French. British, French and Americans thought he was letting the
Russkis slip something over on the whole Allied expedition. Green-eyed jealousy, provincial
jealousy, just plain foolish jealousy tormented the man who was soon disillusioned as to the
glories to be won in that forlorn expedition but who never exhibited anything but an undaunted
optimistic spirit. He was human. When he was among the soldiers and talking to them it was
not hard for them to believe the tale that after all he was an American himself, a Western
Canadian who had started his career as a military man with the Northwest Mounted Police.

An American corporal for several weeks had been in the field hospital near the famous Kodish
Front. One day General Ironside leaned over his bunk and said: "What's the trouble, corporal?"
The reply was, "Rheumatism, sir." At which the British hospital surgeon asserted that he thought
the rheumatism was a matter of the American soldier's imagination. But he regretted the remark,
for the general, looking sternly at the officer, said: "Don't talk to me that way about a soldier.
I know, if you do not, that many a young man, with less exposure than these men have had in
these swamps, contracts rheumatism. Do not confuse the aged man's gout with the young man's
muscular rheumatism." Then he turned his back on the surgeon and said heartily to the corporal:
"You look like a man with lots of grit. Cheer up, maybe the worst is over and you will be up
and around soon. I hope so."

And there was many a British officer who went out there to Russia who won the warm friendship
of Americans. Of course, those were short friendships. But men live a lot in a small space
in war. One day a young second lieutenant--and those were rare in the British uniforms, for
the British War Office had given the commanding general generous leeway in adding local rank
to the under officers--had come out to a distant sector to estimate the actual needs in signal
equipment. He rode a Russian horse to visit the outpost line of the city. He rode in a reindeer
sled to the lines which the Russian partisan forces were holding. He sat down in the evening
to that old Russian merchant trader's piano, in our headquarters, and rambled from chords and
airs to humoresque and rhapsodies. And the American and Russian officers and the orderlies
and batmen each in his own place in the spacious rooms melted into a tender hearing that feared
to move lest the spell be broken and the artist leave the instrument. Men who did not know
how lonesome they had been and who had missed the refinements of home more than they knew,
blessed the player with their pensive listening, thanked fortune they were still alive and
had chances of fighting through to get home again. And after playing ceased the British officer
talked quietly of his home and the home folks and Americans thought and talked of theirs. And
it was good. It was an event.

In sharp contrast is the vivid memory of that picturesque Lt. Bob Graham of the Australian
Light Horse. He could have had anything the doughboy had in camp and they would have risked
their lives for him, too, after the day he ran his Russian lone engine across the bridge at
Verst 458 into No Man's Land and leaped from the engine into a marsh covered by the Bolo machine
guns and brought out in his own arms an American doughboy. Starting merely a daredevil ride
into No Man's Land, his roving eye had spied the doughboy delirious and nearly dead flopping
feebly in the swamp.

Hero of Gallipoli's ill-fated attempt, scarred with more than a score of wounds; with a dead
man's shin bone in the place of his left upper arm bone that a Hun shell carried off; with
a silver plate in his head-shell; victim of as tragic an occurrence as might befall any man,
when as a sergeant in the Flying Squadron in France he saw a young officer's head blown off
in a trench, and it was his own son, Bob Graham, "Australian Force" on the Railroad Detachment,
was missed by the doughboys when he was ordered to report to Archangel.

There the heroic Bob went to the bad. He participated in the shooting out of all the lights
in the Paris cafe of the city in regular wild western style; he was sent up the river for his
health; he fell in with an American corporal whose acquaintance he had made in a sunnier clime,
when the American doughboy had been one of the Marines in Panama and Bob Graham was an agent
of the United Fruit Company. They stole the British officer's bottled goods and trafficked
unlawfully with the natives for fowls and vegetables to take to the American hospital, rounded
up a dangerous band of seven spies operating behind our lines, but made such nuisances of themselves,
especially the wild Australian "second looie," that he was ordered back to Archangel. There
the old general, who knew of his wonderful fighting record, at last brought him on to the big
carpet. And the conversation was something like this:

"Graham, what is the matter? You have gone mad. I had the order to strip you of your rank as
an officer to see if that would sober you. But an order from the King today by cable raises
you one rank and now no one but the King himself can change your rank. You deserved the promotion
but as you are going now it is no good to you. All I can do is to send you back to England.
But I do not mean it as a disgrace to you. I could wish that you would give me your word that
you would stop this madness of yours." And the general looked kindly at Bob.

"Sir, you have been white with me. You have a right to know why I have been misbehaving these
last weeks. Here, sir, is a letter that came to me the day I helped shoot up the cafe. In Belgium
I married an American Red Cross nurse. This is a picture of her and the new-born son come to
take the place of the grown-up son who fell mortally wounded in my arms in France. To her and
the baby I was bound to go if I had to drink Russia dry of all the shipped-in Scotch and get
myself reduced to the ranks for insubordination and deviltry. Sir, I'm fed up on war. I thank
you for sending me back to England."

And Corporal Aldrich tells us that his old friend Bob Graham's present address is First National
Bank, Mobile, Alabama. His father, an immigrant via Canada from old Dundee in Scotland, was
elected governor of Alabama on the dry issue. And officers and doughboys who knew the wild
Australian in North Russia know that his father might have had some help if Bob were at home.
With a genial word for every man, with a tender heart that winced to see a child cry, with
a nimble wit and a brilliant daring, Lt. Bob Graham won a place in the hearts of Americans
that memory keeps warm.

And other British officers might be mentioned. There was, for example, the grizzled naval officer,
Commander Young, whose left sleeve had been emptied at Zeebrugge, running our first armored
train. We missed his cheery countenance and courteous way of meeting American soldiers and
officers when he left us to return to England to take a seat in Parliament which the Socialists
had elected him to. We can see him again in memory with his Polish gunners, his Russian Lewis
gun men, standing in his car surrounded by sand bags and barbed wire, knocking hot wood cinders
from his neck, which the Russki locomotive floated back to him. And many a time we were moved
to bless him when his guns far in our rear spoke cheeringly to our ears as they sent whining
shells curving over us to fall upon the enemy. It is no discredit to say that many a time the
doughboy's eye was filled with a glistening drop of emotion when his own artillery had sprung
to action and sent that first booming retort. And some of those moments are bound in memory
with the blue-coated figure of the gallant Commander Young.

The Russian Army of the North was non-existent when the Allies landed. All the soldiery previously
in evidence had moved southward with the last of the lootings of Archangel and joined the armies
of the soviet at Vologda, or were forming up the rear guard to dispute the entrance of the
Allies to North Russia. The Allied Supreme Command in North Russia, true to its dream of raising
over night a million men opened recruiting offices in Archangel and various outlying points,
thinking that the population would rally to the banners (and the ration carts) in droves. But
the large number of British officers waited in vain for months and months for the pupils to
arrive to learn all over the arts of war. At last after six months two thousand five hundred
recruits had been assembled by dint of advertising and coaxing and pressure. They were called
the Slavo-British Allied Legion, S. B. A. L. for short.

These Slavo-Brits as they were called never distinguished themselves except in the slow goose
step--much admired by Colonel Stewart, who pointed them out to one of his captains as wonders
of precision, and also distinguished themselves in eating. They failed several times under
fire, once they caused a riffle of real excitement in Archangel when they started a mutiny,
and finally they were used chiefly as labor units and as valets and batmen for officers and
horses. They were charged with having a mutinous spirit and with plotting to go over to the
Bolsheviks. They did in small numbers at times. It is interesting to note that they were trained
under British officers who enlisted them from among renegades, prisoners and deserters from
ranks of the Bolsheviks, refugees and hungry willies, and, that once enlisted they were not
fed the standard British ration of food or tobacco, the which they held as a grievance. It
never made the American soldier feel comfortable to see the prisoners he had taken in action
parading later in the S, B. A. L. uniform, and especially in the case of Russians who came
over from the Bolo lines and gave up with suspiciously strong protestations of dislike for
their late commanders.

The Russians who were recruited and trained by the French in the so-called French Legion, under
the leadership of the old veteran Boyer who is mentioned elsewhere were found usually with
a better record. The Courier du Bois on skiis in white clothing did remarkably valuable scouting
and patrolling work and at times as at Kodish and Bolsheozerki hung off on the flanks of the
encircling Bolo hordes and worried the attackers with great effectiveness.

The French also had better luck in training the Russian artillery officers and personnel than
did the British although some of the latter units did good work. It seemed to be a better class
of Russian recruit that chose the artillery. Doughboys who were caught on an isolated road
like rats in a trap will remember with favor the Russian artillery men who with their five
field pieces on that isolated road ate, slept and shivered around their guns for eight days
without relief, springing to action in a few seconds at any call. By their effective action
they contributed quite largely to the defense, active fighting of which fell upon two hundred
Yanks facing more than ten times the number. Why should it surprise one to find an occasional
Yank returned from Archangel who will say a good word for a Russian soldier. There were cordial
relations between Americans and more than a few Russian units.

In certain localities in the interior where the peasants had organized to resist the rapacious
Red Guard looters, there were little companies of good fighters, in their own way. These were
usually referred to as Partisans or White Guards depending upon the degree to which they were
authorized and organized by the local county governments. They always at first strongly co-operated
with the Allied troops, which they looked upon as friends sent in to help them against the
Bolsheviki. Toward the Americans they maintained their cordial relations throughout, but after
the first months seemed to cool toward the other Allied troops. This sounds conceited, and
possibly is, but the explanation seems to be that the Russian understood American candor and
cordial democracy, the actual sympathetic assistance offered by the doughboy to the Russian
soldier or laborer and took it at par value.

Further explanation of the cooling of the ardor of the local partisans toward the British in
particular may be found in the fact that the British field commanders often found it convenient
and really necessary to send the local troops far distant from their own areas. There they
lost the urge of defending their firesides and their families. They were in districts which
they quite simply and honestly thought should themselves be aiding the British to keep off
the Bolsheviki. They could not understand the military necessities that had perhaps called
these local partisans off to some other part of the fighting line on those long forest fronts.
He lacked the broader sense of nationality or even of sectionalism. And as demands for military
action repeatedly came to him the justice of which he saw only darkly he became a poorer and
poorer source of dependence. He would not put his spirit into fighting, he was quite likely
to hit through the woods for home.

When the Allies early in the fall found they could not forge through to the south, rolling
up a bigger and bigger Russian force to crush the Bolsheviki, who were apparently, as told
us, fighting up to keep us from going a thousand miles or so to hit the Germans a belt--a fly-weight
buffet as it were--and when we heard of the Armistice and began digging in on a real defensive
in the late fall and early winter, the Provisional Government at Archangel under Tchaikowsky
had already made some progress in assembling an army. In the winter small units of this Archangel
army began co-operating in various places, and as the winter wore on, began to take over small
portions of the line, as at Toulgas, Shred Mekrenga, Bolsheozerki, usually however with a few
British officers and some Allied soldiers to stiffen them. Although many of these men had been
drafted by the Archangel government and as we have seen by such local county governments as
Pinega, they were fairly well trained under old Russian officers who crept out to serve when
they saw the new government meant business. And many capable young officers came from the British-Russian
officers' school at Bakaritsa.

RED CROSS PHOTO Canadian Artillery--Americans Were Strong for Them

ROZANSKEY Making "Khleba"--Black Bread

WAGNER Stout Defense of Kitsa

Needless to say, these troops were at their best when they were in active work on the lines.
Rest camp and security from attack quickly reduced their morale. And the next time they were
sent up to the forward posts they were likely to prove undependable.

In doing the ordinary drudgery of camp life the Russian soldier as the doughboy saw him was
very unsatisfactory. Many a Yank has itched to get his hands on the Russian Archangelite soldier,
especially some of our hard old sergeants who wanted to put them on police and scavenger details
to see them work. In this reluctance to work, their refusal sometimes even when the doughboy
pitched into the hateful job and set them a good example, they were only like the civilian
males whose aversion to certain kinds of work has been mentioned before. When some extensive
piece of work had to be done for the Allies like policing a town, that is, cleaning it up for
sake of health of the soldiers or smoothing off a landing place for airplanes, it was a problem
to get the labor.

In the erection of large buildings or bridges the Russian man's axe and saw and mallet and
plane worked swiftly and skillfully and unceasingly and willingly. Those tools were to him
as playthings. Not so with an American-made long-handled shovel in his hands. Then it was necessary
to hire both women and men. The men thought they themselves were earning their pay, but as
the women in Russia do most of the back-breaking, stooping work anyway, they just caught on
to those American shovels and to the astonishment of the American doughboy who superintended
the work they did twice as much as the men for just half the pay and with half the bossing.

It is not a matter of false pride on the part of the Slavic male that keeps him from vying
with his better half in doing praiseworthy work. It is lack of education. He has never learned.
He is so constituted that he cannot learn quickly. He will work himself to exhaustion day after
day in raising a house, cradling grain, playing an accordeon, or performing a folk dance. His
earliest known ancestors did those things with fervor and it is doubtful if the modus operandi
has changed much since the beginning, since Adam was a Russian.

The "H" Company boys could tell you stories of the Chinese outfit of  S. B. A. L. under the
British officer, the likable Capt. Card, who later lost his life in the forlorn hope drive
on Karpogora in March. One day he was approached by a Chinese soldier who begged the loan of
a machine gun for a little while. It seems that the Chinese had gotten into argument with a
company of Russian S. B. A. L. men as to the relative staying qualities of Russians and Chinese
under fire. And they had agreed upon a machine gun duel as a fair test. The writer one night
at four in the morning woke when his Russian sleigh stopped in a village and rubbed his sleepy
eyes open to find himself looking up into the questioning face of a burly sentry of the Chinese
race. And he obeyed the sentry's directions with alacrity. He was not taking any chances on
a misunderstanding that might arise out of an attempted explanation in a three-cornered Russo-Chino-English
conversation.

Captain Odjard's men might tell stories about the redoubtable Russian Colonel Deliktorsky,
who was in the push up the rivers in September. Impetuous to a fault he flung himself and his
men into the offensive movement. "In twelve minutes we take Toulgas," was his simple battle
order to the Americans. No matter to him that ammunition reserves were not ordered up. Sufficient
to him that he showed his men the place to be battled for. And he was a favorite.

On the railroad in the fall a young Bolshevik officer surrendered his men to the French. Next
time the American officer saw him he was reporting in American headquarters at Pinega that
he had conducted his men to safety and dug in. Afterwards Bolshevik assassins or spies shot
him in ambush and succeeded only in angering him and he went into battle two days later with
a bandage covering three wounds in his neck and scalp. "G" and "M" Company men will remember
this fiery Mozalevski.

Then there was the studious Capt. Akutin, a three-year veteran of a Russian machine gun battalion,
a graduate student of science in a Russian university, a man of new army and political ideals
in keeping with the principles of the Russian Revolution. His great success with the Pinega
Valley volunteers and drafted men was due quite largely to his strength of character, his adherence
to his principles. The people did not fear the restoration of the old monarchist regime even
though he was an officer of the Czar's old army. American soldiers in Pinega gained a genuine
respect and admiration for this Russian officer, Capt. Akutin, and he once expressed great
pleasure in the fact that they exchanged salutes with him cordially.

XXXII

FELCHERS, PRIESTS AND ICONS

Felcher Is Student Of Medicine--Or Pill Passer Of Army Experience --Sanitation And Ventilation--Priests
Strange Looking To Soldiers --Duties And Responsibilities--Effect Of Bolshevism On Peasant's
Religious Devotions--The Icons--Interesting Stories--Doughboys Buried By Russian Priests--Respect
For Russian Religion.

During the fall of 1918 when the influenza epidemic was wreaking such great havoc among the
soldiers and natives in the Archangel Province, our medical corps as heretofore explained were
put to almost superhuman efforts in combating the spread of this terrible disease. There were
very few native doctors in the region, and it was, therefore, well nigh impossible to enlist
outside aid. In some of the villages we received word that there were men called felchers who
could possibly be of some assistance. We were at once curious to ascertain just what kind of
persons these individuals were and upon investigation found that the Russian Company located
in our sector had a young officer who was also a felcher and who was giving certain medical
attention to his troops. We immediately sent for him and in answer to our inquiries he explained
as nearly as possible just what a felcher was.

It seems that in Russia, outside the large cities and communities, there is a great scarcity
of regularly licensed medical practitioners, many of these latter upon graduation enter the
army where the pay is fairly good and the work comparatively easy, the rest of them enter the
cities where, of course, practice is larger and the remuneration much better than would be
possible in a small community. These facts developed in the smaller communities the use of
certain second-rate students of medicine or anyone having a smattering of medical knowledge,
called felchers.

In many cases the felcher is an old soldier who has traveled around the world a bit; and from
his association in the army hospitals with doctors and students has picked up the technique
of dressing wounds, setting broken bones and administering physic. Very often they are, of
course, unable to properly diagnose the ailments or conditions of their patients. They, however,
are shrewd enough to follow out the customary army method of treating patients and regardless
of the disease promptly administer vile doses of medicine, usually a physic, knowing full well
that to the average patient, the stronger the medicine and the more of it he gets, the better
the treatment is, and a large percentage of the recoveries effected by these felchers is more
or less a matter of faith rather than physic or medicine.

The regularly licensed practitioners as a rule have great contempt for these felchers, but
the fact remains that in the small communities where they practice the felcher accomplishes
a great amount of good, for having traveled considerably and devoted some time to the study
of medicine he is at least superior in intelligence to the average peasant, and, therefore,
better qualified to meet such emergencies as may arise.

This lack of medical practitioners, coupled with the apathy of the peasants regarding sanitary
precautions and their unsanitary methods of living accounts to some extent for the violence
and spread of plagues, so common throughout Russia.

Regarding the spread of disease and plagues through Russia caused as above stated by lack of
sanitary conditions, a word or two further would not be amiss. In the province of Archangel,
for example, a great majority of houses are entirely of log construction, built and modelled
throughout by the owner, and perhaps some of his good neighbors. They are really a remarkable
example of what may be done in the way of construction without the use of nails and of the
modern improved methods of house construction. It is an actual fact that these simple peasants,
equipped only with their short hand axes, with the use of which they are adepts, can cut down
trees, hew the logs and build their homes practically without the use of any nails whatever.
The logs, of course, are first well seasoned before they are put into the house itself and
when they are joined together they are practically air tight, but to make sure of this fact
the cracks are sealed tight with moss hammered into the chinks. Next the windows of these houses
are always double, that is, there is one window on the outside of the frame and another window
on the inside. Needless to say, during the winter these windows are practically never opened.

During the winter months the entire family--and families in this country are always large--eat,
sleep, and live in one room of the house in which the huge brick home-made stove is located.
In addition to the human beings living in the room there are often a half dozen or more chickens
concealed beneath the stove, sometimes several sheep, and outside the door may be located the
stable for the cattle. Nevertheless, the peasants are remarkably healthy, and in this region
of the world epidemics are rather uncommon which may perhaps be explained by the fact that
the peasants are out of doors a large part of the time and in addition thereto the air is very
pure and healthful. Sewerage systems and such means of drainage are entirely unknown, even
in the city of Archangel, which at the time we were there, contained some hundred thousand
inhabitants. The only sewerage there was an open sewer that ran through the streets of the
city. Small wonder it is under such conditions that when an epidemic does break out that it
spreads so far and so rapidly.

One of the most familiar characters seen in every town, large or small, was the Batushka. This
character is usually attired in a long, black or gray smock and his hair reaches in long curls
to his shoulders. At first sight to the Yankee soldiers he resembled very much the members
of the House of David or so-called "Holy Roller" sect in this country. This mysterious individual,
commonly called Batushka, as we later discovered, was the village priest. The priest of course
belonged to the Russian Orthodox Church and whose head in the old days was the Czar. The priests
differ very greatly from the ministers of the gospel and priests in the English-speaking world.
They have certain religious functions to perform in certain set ways, outside of which they
never venture to stray.  The Russian priest is merely expected to conform to certain observances
and to perform the rites and ceremonies prescribed by the Church. He rarely preaches or exhorts,
and neither has nor seeks to have a moral control over his flock. Marriage among the priests
is not prohibited but is limited, that is to say, the priest is allowed to marry but once,
and consequently, in choosing the wife he usually picks one of the strongest and healthiest
women in the community. This selection is in all seriousness an important matter in the priest's
life because he draws practically no salary from his position and must own a share of the community
land, till and cultivate the same in exactly the same manner as the rest of the community,
consequently his wife must be strong and healthy in order to assist him in the many details
of managing his small holdings. In case she were such a strong and healthy person, the loss
of the wife would be a calamity in more ways than one to the priest as is apparent by the above
statements.

While the religious beliefs and doctrines of the average peasant is only used by him as a practical
means toward an end, yet it must be admitted that the Russian people are in a certain sense
religious.

Of theology in its deeper sense the peasant has no intelligent comprehension.

Men of education and of great influence among the people were these sad-faced priests, until
the Bolsheviks came to undermine their power; for the Bolsheviks have spared not the old Imperial
government. The church had been a potent organization for the Czar to strengthen his sway throughout
his far-reaching dominions and every priest was an enlisted crusader of the Little Father.
So the Bolsheviki, sweeping over the country, have seized, first of all, upon these priests
of Romanoff, torturing them to death with hideous cruelty, if there be any truth in stories,
and finding vindictive delight in deriding sacred things and violating holy places.

The moujik, ever susceptible to influence, has been quick to become infected with this bacillus
of agnosticism, and while he still professes the faith and observes many of the forms as by
habit, his fervor is cooling and already is grown luke-warm. Now on Sundays, despite all of
the execrations of the priest, and the terrible threats of eternal damnation, he often dozes
the Sabbath away unperturbed on the stove; and lets the women attend to the church going. Under
Bolshevik rule Holy Russia will be Agnostic Russia; and it is a pity, for religious teaching
was the guiding star of these poor people, and religious precepts, hard, gloomy and dismal
though they were, the foundation of the best in their character.

Icons are pictorial, usually half length representations of the Saviour or the Madonna or some
patron saint, finished in a very archaic Byzantine style on a yellow or gold background, and
vary in size from a square inch to several square feet. Very often the whole picture is covered
with various ornaments, ofttimes with precious stones. In respect to their religious significance
icons are of two classes, simple or miracle-working. The former are manufactured in enormous
quantities and are to be found in every Russian house, from the lowest peasant to the highest
official. They are generally placed high up in a corner of the living room facing the door,
and every good Orthodox peasant on entering the door bows in the direction of the icon and
crosses himself repeatedly. Before and after meals the same ceremony is always performed and
on holiday or fete days a small taper or candle is kept burning before the icon throughout the day.

An amusing incident is related which took place in the allied hospital in Shenkursk. A young
medical officer had just arrived from Archangel and was sitting in the living room or entrance-way
of the hospital directly underneath one of these icons. One of the village ladies, having occasion
to call at the hospital, entered the front door and as usual stepped toward the center of the
room facing the icon, bowed very low and started crossing herself. The young officer who was
unacquainted with the Russian custom, believing that she was saluting him, quickly stepped
forward and stretched forth his hand to shake hands with her while she was still in the act
of crossing herself. Great was his consternation when he was later informed by his interpreter
of the significance of this operation.

Doughboys on the Railroad front at Obozerskaya will recall the fact that when the first three
Americans killed in action in North Russia were buried, it was impossible to get one of our
chaplains from Archangel to come to Obozerskaya to bury them. The American officer in command
engaged the local Russian priest to perform the religious service. By some trick of fate it
had happened that these first Americans who fell in action were of Slavic blood, so the strange
funeral which the doughboys witnessed was not so incongruous after all.

With the long-haired, wonderfully-robed priest came his choir and many villagers, who occupied
one side of the square made by the soldiers standing there in the dusk to do last honors to
their dead comrades. With chantings and doleful chorus the choir answered his solemn oratory
and devotional intercessions. He swung his sacred censer pot over each body and though we understood
no word we knew he was doing reverence to the spirit of sacrifice shown by our fallen comrades.
There in the darkness by the edge of the forest, the priest and his ceremony, the firing squad's
volley, and the bugler's last call, all united to make that an allied funeral. The American
soldier and the priest and his pitiful people had really begun to spin out threads of sympathy
which were to be woven later into a fabric of friendliness. The doughboy always respected the
honest peasant's religious customs.

XXXIII

BOLSHEVISM

Why Chapter Is Written--Venerable Kropotkin's Message Direct From Central Russia--Official
Report Of United States Department Of State --Conclusions Of Study Prepared For National Chamber
Of Commerce --Authoritative Comment By Men Who Are In Position To Know--A Cartoon And Comment
Which Speak For Veterans.

The writers have an idea that the veterans of the North Russian Expedition would like a short,
up-to-date chapter on Bolshevism. We used to wonder why it was that John Bolo was so willing
to fight us and the White Guards. We would not wish to emphasize the word willing for we remember
the fact that many a time when he was beaten back from our defenses we knew by the sound that
he was being welcomed back to his camp by machine guns. And the prisoners and wounded whom
we captured were not always enthusiastic about the Bolshevism under whose banner they fought.
To be fair, however, we must remark that we captured some men and officers who were sure enough
believers in their cause.

And the general reader will probably like a chapter presented by men who were over in that
civil war-torn north country and who might be expected to gather the very best materials available
on the subject of Bolshevism. And what we have gathered we present with not much comment except
that we ourselves are trying to keep a tolerant but wary eye upon those who profess to believe
in Bolshevism. We say candidly that we think Bolshevism is a failure. But we do not condemn
everyone else who differs with us. Let there be fair play and justice to all, freedom of thought
and speech, with decent respect for the rights of all.

The first article is adapted from an article in The New York Times of recent date, according
to which Margaret Bondfield, a member of the British Labor Delegation which recently visited
Russia, went to see Peter Kropotkin, the celebrated Russian economist and anarchist, at his
home at Dimitroff, near Moscow. The old man gave her a message to the workers of Great Britain
and the western world:

"In the first place, the workers of the civilized world and their friends among other classes
should persuade their governments to give up completely the policy of armed intervention in
the affairs of Russia, whether that intervention is open or disguised, military, or under the
form of subventions by different nations.

"Russia is passing through a revolution of the same significance and of equal importance that
England passed through in 1639-1648 and France in 1789-1794. The nations of today should refuse
to play the shameful role to which England, Prussia, Austria, and Russia sank during the French
Revolution.

"Moreover, it is necessary to consider that the Russian Revolution--which seeks to erect a
society in which the full production of the combined efforts of labor, technical skill and
scientific knowledge shall go to the community itself--is not a mere accident in the struggle
of parties. The revolution has been in preparation for nearly a century by Socialist and Communist
propaganda, since the times of Robert Owen, Saint-Simon, and Fourier. And although the attempt
to introduce the new society by the dictatorship of a party apparently seems condemned to defeat,
it must be admitted that the revolution has already introduced into our life new conceptions
of the rights of labor, its true position in society, and the duties of each citizen.

Not only the workers, but all progressive elements in the civilized nations should bring to
an end the support so far given to the adversaries of the revolution. This does not mean that
there is nothing to oppose in the methods of the Bolshevist government. Far from it! But all
armed intervention by a foreign power necessarily results in an increase of the dictatorial
tendencies of the rulers and paralyzes the efforts of those Russians who are ready to aid Russia,
independent of her government, in the restoration of her life.

"The evils inherent in the party dictatorship have grown because of the war conditions in which
this party has maintained itself. The state of war has been the pretext for increasing the
dictatorial methods of the party as well as the reason for the tendency to centralize each
detail of life in the hands of the government, which has resulted in the cessation of many
branches of the nation's usual activities. The natural evils of state Communism have been multiplied
tenfold under the pretext that the distress of our existence is due to the intervention of
foreigners.

"It is my firm opinion that if the military intervention of the Allies is continued it will
certainly develop in Russia a bitter sentiment with respect to the western nations, a sentiment
that will be utilized some day in future conflicts. This bitter feeling is already growing.

"So far as our present economic and political situation is concerned, the Russian revolution,
being the continuation of the two great revolutions in England and France, undertakes to progress
beyond the point where France stopped when she perceived that actual equality consists in economic
equality.

"Unfortunately, this attempt has been made in Russia under the strongly centralized dictatorship
of a party, the Maximalist Social Democrats. The Baboeuf conspiracy, extremely centralized
and jacobinistic, tried to apply a similar policy. I am compelled frankly to admit that, in
my opinion, this attempt to construct a communist republic with a strongly centralized state
communism as its base, under the iron law of the dictatorship of a party, is bound to end in
a fiasco. We are learning in Russia how communism should not be introduced, even by a people
weary of the ancient regime and making no active resistance to the experimental projects of
the new rulers.

"The Soviet idea--that is to say, councils of workers and peasants, first developed during
the revolutionary uprisings of 1905 and definitely realized during the revolution of February,
1917--the idea of these councils controlling the economic and political life of the country,
is a great conception. Especially so because it necessarily implies that the councils should
be composed of all those who take a real part in the production of national wealth by their
own personal efforts.

"But as long as a country is governed by the dictatorship of a party, the workers' and peasants'
councils evidently lose all significance. They are reduced to the passive role formerly performed
by the states generals and the parliaments when they were convened by the king and had to combat
an all-powerful royal council.

"A labor council ceases to be a free council when there is no liberty of the press in the country,
and we have been in this situation for nearly two years--under the pretext that we are in a
state of war. But that is not all. The workers' and peasants' councils lose all their significance
unless the elections are preceded by a free electoral campaign and when the elections are conducted
under the pressure of the dictatorship of a party. Naturally, the stock excuse is that the
dictatorship is inevitable as a method to fight the ancient regime. But such a dictatorship
evidently becomes a barrier from the moment when the revolution undertakes the construction
of a new society on a new economic basis. The dictatorship condemns the new structure to death.

"The methods resorted to in overthrowing governments already tottering are well known to history,
ancient and modern. But when it is necessary to create new forms of life--especially new forms
of production and exchange--without examples to follow, when everything must be constructed
from the ground up, when a government that undertakes to supply even lamp chimneys to every
inhabitant demonstrates that it is absolutely unable to perform this function with all its
employees, however limitless their number may be, when this condition is reached such a government
becomes a nuisance. It develops a bureaucracy so formidable that the French bureaucratic system,
which imposes the intervention of 40 functionaries to sell a tree blown across a national road
by a storm, becomes a bagatelle in comparison. This is what you, the workers in the occidental
countries, should and must avoid by all possible means since you have at heart the success
of a social reconstruction. Send your delegates here to see how a social revolution works in
actual life.

"The prodigious amount of constructive labor necessary under a social revolution cannot be
accomplished by a central government, even though it may be guided by something more substantial
than a collection of Socialist and anarchistic manuals. It requires all the brain power available
and the voluntary collaboration of specialized and local forces, which alone can attack with
success the diversity of the economic problems in their local aspects. To reject this collaboration
and to rely on the genius of a party dictatorship is to destroy the independent nucleus, such
as the trade unions and the local co-operative societies by changing them into party bureaucratic
organs, as is actually the case at present. It is the method not to accomplish the revolution.
It is the method to make the realization of the revolution impossible. And this is the reason
why I consider it my duty to warn you against adopting such methods.

It must be evident to the reader that Russia is at present being ruled by a system of pyramided
majorities, many of which are doubtful popular majorities. In the name of the Red Party Lenin
and Trotsky rule. They themselves admit it. The dictatorship of the proletariat, and similar
terms are used by them in referring to their highly centralized control. We Americans are in
the habit of overturning state and national administrations when we think one party has ruled
long enough. Even a popular war president at the pinnacle of his power found the American people
resenting, so it has been positively affirmed, his plea for the return of his party to continued
control in 1918. Can we as a self-governing people look with anything but wonder at the occasional
American who fails to see that the perpetual rule of one party year after year which we as
Americans have always doubted the wisdom of, is the very thing that Lenin and Trotsky have
fastened upon Russia. Russia, that wanted to be freed from the Romanoff rule and its bureaucratic
system of fraud, waste, and cruelty, today groans under a system of despotism which is just
as, if not more, wasteful, fraudulent and cruel.

There are sincere people who might think that because the Bolsheviks have kept themselves in
power, that they must be right. We can not agree with the reasoning. Even if we knew nothing
about the bayonets and machine guns and firing squads and prisons, we would not agree to the
reasoning that the Bolshevik government is right just because it is in power.

The Chamber of Commerce of the United States has, through Frederic J. Haskin, Washington, D.
C., distributed an admirable pamphlet, temperate and judicial, which compares the Soviet system
with the American constitutional system. This pamphlet written by Hon. Burton L. French, of
Idaho, concludes his discussion as follows:

"In a government that has been heralded so widely as being the most profound experiment in
democracy that has ever been undertaken, we would naturally expect that the franchise would
be along lines that would recognize all mankind embraced within the citizenship of the nation
as standing upon an equal footing. The United States has for many years adhered to that principle.
It was that principle largely for which our fathers died when they established our government,
and yet that principle seems foreign to the way of thinking of Lenin and Trotsky as they shaped
the Russian constitution.

PARALLEL 8--THOSE WHO MAY VOTE RUSSIA   1. The franchise extends to all over 18 years of age
who have acquired the means of living through manual labor, and also persons engaged in housekeeping
for the former.

2. Soldiers of the army and navy.

3. The former two classes when incapacitated.

UNITED STATES All men (and women in many states, and soon in all) who are citizens and over
21 years of age, excepting those disfranchised on account of illiteracy, mental ailment or
criminal record. Who else? The soldiers of the army and navy. Who else? Any of the former two
classes who have become incapacitated.

"Now turn to the next sections of the Russian constitution and see who are disfranchised.

"The merchant is disfranchised; ministers of all denominations are disfranchised; and then,
while condemning the Czar for tyranny, the soviet constitution solemnly declares that those
who were in the employ of the Czar or had been members of the families of those who had ruled
in Russia for many generations shall be denied suffrage.

"Persons who have income from capital or from property that is theirs by reason of years of
frugality, industry, and thrift are penalized by being denied the right to vote. They are placed
in the class with criminals, while the profligate, the tramp who works enough to obtain the
means by which he can hold body and soul together, is able to qualify under the constitution
of Russia and is entitled to a vote. Under that system in the United States the loyal men and
women who bought Liberty Bonds, in their country's peril would be disfranchised while the slacker
would have the right of suffrage. Under that system the manufacturer who furnishes employment
for a thousand men would be denied the ballot, while those in his employ could freely exercise
the right of franchise. Under that system the farmer who hires a crew of men to help him harvest
his crop is denied the franchise. Under that system the dairyman who hires a boy to milk his
cows or to deliver milk is denied the franchise.

"The constitution of Russia adopts the declaration of rights as part of the organic act to
the extent that changes have not been made, by the constitution. Examine them--the constitution
and the declaration of rights--we find other most astounding doctrines in the soviet fundamental
law. I shall not discuss but merely mention a few of them. They do not pertain so much to the
structure of government as they do to the economic and social conditions surrounding the people
under the soviet system:

"First. Private ownership of land is abolished. (No compensation, open or secret, is paid to
the former owner.)

"Second. Civil marriage alone is legal. By act of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets a marriage
may be accomplished by the contracting parties declaring the fact orally, or by writing to
the department of registry of marriage. Divorce is granted by petition of both or either party
upon proof alone that divorce is desired.

"Third. The teaching of religious doctrines is forbidden in private schools, as well as in
schools that are public.

"Fourth. No church or religious society has the right to own property. (The soviet leaders
boldly proclaim the home and the church as the enemies of their system, and from the foregoing
it would seem that they are trying to destroy them.)

"Fifth. Under the general authority granted to the soviets by the constitution inheritance
of property by law or will has been abolished.

"These amazing features of the constitution and laws enacted under the constitution speak more
eloquently than any words that could be used to amplify them in portraying the hideousness
of a system of government that, if permitted to continue, must inevitably crush out the home
in large part by the flippancy with which marriage and divorce are regarded, by the refusal
of permitting the land to be held in private ownership, and by refusing the parent the right
at death to pass on to his wife or to his children the fruits of years of toil.

"What, then, is my arraignment of sovietism according to the soviet constitution?

"1. The people have no direct vote or voice in government, except the farmers in their local
rural soviets and the city dwellers in their urban soviets.

"2. The rural, county, provincial, regional, and All-Russian soviets are elected indirectly,
and the people have no direct vote in the election.

"3. The people have no voice in the election of executive officers of the highest or lowest
degrees.

"4. There is no mention of independent judicial officers in the constitution.

"5. The people are very largely disfranchised.

"6. The farmer of Russia is discriminated against.

"7. The system raises class against class; the voters vote by trade and craft groups instead
of on the basis of thought units.

"8. The system strikes a blow at the church and the home.

"9. The system is pyramidal and means highly centralized and autocratic power.

"The soviet system of government can not be defended. It is against the interests of the very
men for whom it is supposed to have been established--the laboring man. He is the man most
of all who must suffer under any kind of government or system that is wrong. He is the man
who would be out of bread within the shortest time. He is the man whose family would be destitute
of clothing in the shortest time. He is the man whose family will suffer through disease, famine,
and pestilence in the shortest time.

"As it is against the best interest of the laboring man, so it is against the best interest
of all the people, and, as a matter of fact, the overwhelming mass of people of this country
and all countries is made up of laboring people.

"Finally, the soviet government, as foreshadowed in its constitution, is obviously unjust,
unfair and discriminatory. This fact will appear at once to any mind trained to the American
manner of thought, which takes the trouble to investigate sovietism, and whatever tendency
there may be to approve will disappear with better understanding."

"Men in high places who have had opportunity to get the facts," says Mr. Burton, "give their
impressions of the experiment:

"WOODROW WILSON, President of the United States.--'There is a closer monopoly of power in Moscow
and Petrograd than there ever was in Berlin.'

"SAMUEL GOMPERS, President of the American Federation of Labor.-- 'Bolshevism is as great an
attempt to disrupt the trade unions as it is to overturn the government of the United States.
It means the decadence or perversion of the civilization of our time. This philosophy has stood
this test in the fire of common sense. We have a willingness to abide by the will of the majority.
For all I know it may be necessary to have revolutions in some places in Europe in order to
bring about these things, but it does not follow that such philosophies have any place with us.'

"WILLIAM HOWARD TAFT, Former President of the United States.--'I do not fear bolshevism in
this country. I do not mean that in congested centers foreigners and agitators will not have
influence. But Americans as a whole have a deep love for America. It is a vital love that the
sensational appeals of bolshevists and agitators cannot weaken'."

A yellowed and tattered cartoon that hung on a Company bulletin board at 466 when the snow
was slipping away.

"America Looks Mighty. Good After You've Seen Europe" is the title.

On the right stands the Bolshevik orator on a soap box. His satchel bursting out with propaganda
and pamphlets on Bolshevism from Europe. In his hand he holds a pamphlet that has a message
for the returning doughboys. The agitator's hair and whiskers bristle with hatred and envy.
His yellow teeth look hideous between his snarling lips. And he points a long skinny finger
for the doughboy to see his message, which is, "Down with America, it's all Wrong." So much
for the man who came from Europe to wreck America.

Now look at the Man Who Went to Europe to Save America and is now back on the west side of
the Statue of Liberty. Does he look interested in Bolshevism Or downhearted over America? No.
In his figure a manful contrast to the scraggly agitator. In his face no hate, no malice. He
does not even hate the self-deluded agitator.

His clean-brushed teeth are exposed by a good-humored smile of assurance and confidence. He
does not extend a fist but he waves off the fool Bolshevik orator with a good-natured but nevertheless
final answer. And here it is: "Go on--Take That Stuff Back to Where You Got it--I Wouldn't
Trade a Log Hut on a Swamp in America for the Whole of Europe!"

We are thinking that the cartoon just about says it for all returned soldiers from North Russia.
We want nothing to do with the Bolo agitator in this country who would make another Russia
of the United States. We let them blow off steam, are patient with their vagaries, are willing
to give every man a fair hearing if he has a grievance, but we don't fall for their wild ideas
about tearing things up by the roots.

AMERICA LOOKS MIGHTY GOOD AFTER YOU'VE SEEN EUROPE --COLUMBUS EVENING DISPATCH

XXXIV

Y. M. C. A. AND Y. W. C. A. WITH TROOPS

Justice Where Justice Is Due--Summary Of Work Of "Y" Men--"Y" Women And Hostess House--Seen
Near Front--Devoted Women Stay In Russia When We Leave--Christian Associations Point Way To
Help Russia.

The editors have felt that "justice where justice is due" demands a few pages in this volume
about the service of our Y. M. C. A. with us in North Russia. We know that there is a great
deal of bitterness against the "Y." Much of it was engendered by the few selfish and crooked
and cowardly men who crept into the "Y" service, and the really great service of the Y. M.
C. A. is badly discounted and its war record sadly sullied. We know that here and there in
North Russia a "Y" man failed to "measure up" but we know that on the whole our Y. M. C. A.
in North Russia with us, did great service.

To get a fair and succinct story, we wrote to Mr. Crawford Wheeler, whose statement follows.
He was the Chief Secretary in the North Russia area. The first paragraph is really a letter
of transmissal, but we approve its sentiment and commend its manly straightforwardness to our
comrades and the general reader:

"This is written purely from memory. I haven't a scrap of material at hand and I have hurried
in order that you might have the stuff promptly. Please indicate, in case you use this material,
that it is not based on records,--for I cannot vouch for all the figures. However, in the main,
the outline is right. I wish the "Y" might have a really good chapter in your book, for I always
have felt, with many of the other boys in our service, that we are condemned back here for
the sins of others. If the "Y" in North Russia was not a fairly effective organization which
went right to the front and stayed there, then a lot of officers and men in the 339th poured
slush in my ears. Were it not for the rather unfortunate place which a "Y" man occupies back
here, none of us would seek even an iota of praise, for in comparison with the rest of you,
we deserve none; but I'm sure you understand the circumstances which impel me to insert the
foregoing plea, 'Justice where justice is due.' That's all.

"The Y. M. C. A. shared the lot of the American North Russian Expeditionary Force as an isolated
fighting command from the day it landed until the last soldier left Archangel. It shared in
the successes and the failures of the expedition. It contributed something now and then to
the welfare and comfort and even to the lives of the American and Allied troops both at the
front and in the base camps. It made a record which only the testimony of those who were part
of the expedition is qualified to estimate.

"When the American soldiers of the 339th Infantry landed in Archangel on September 5th, 1918,
they found a "Y" in town ahead of them. The day after the port was captured by allied forces
early in August, Allen Craig of the American Y. M. C. A. had secured a spacious building in
the heart of the city for use as a "Y" hut. With very little equipment he managed to set up
a cocoa and biscuit stand and a reading and writing room and the hall of the building was opened
for band concerts and athletic nights. It really was little more than a barn until the arrival
of secretaries and supplies in October made improvements possible.

"A party of ten secretaries, who had spent the previous year in Central Russia under the Bolshevik
regime, landed in the first week of October, having come around from Sweden and Norway. Two
weeks later another ten secretaries arrived from the same starting point. These men formed
the nucleus of the "Y" personnel which was to serve the American troops through the winter
and spring. They were sent to points at the front immediately after their arrival, and more
than a few doughboys will remember the first trip of the big railroad car to the front south
of Obozerskaya, with Frank Olmstead in charge.

"The British Y. M. C. A. sent a party of twenty-five secretaries to Archangel early in the
fall and considerations of practical policy made it advisable to combine operations under the
title of the Allied Y. M. C. A. To the credit of the British secretaries, it must be said that
they turned over all their supplies to the American management. These supplies constituted
practically all the stock of biscuit and canteen products used until Christmas time, and British
secretaries took their places under the direction of the American headquarters.

"The "Y" was fortunate to have secured several trucks and Ford cars in a shipment before the
Allied landing, and they became part of the expeditionary transport system at once. The Supply
Company of the 339th used one truck, and the British transport staff borrowed the other one.
Major Ely, Quartermaster of the American forces, got one of the Fords, and another one went
to the American Red Cross.

"By the middle of November the "Y" had secretaries on the river fronts near Seletskoe and Beresnik
at the railroad front and with the Pinega detachment. Supplies dribbled through to them in
pitifully small amounts, usually half of the stuff stolen before it reached the front. The
British N. A. B. C. sold considerable quantities of biscuit and cigarettes to the "Y," both
at the front bases and from the Archangel depot. On the railroad front a really respectable
service was maintained, because transport was not so difficult. One secretary made the trip
around the blockhouses and outposts daily with a couple of packsacks filled with gum, candy
and cigarettes, which were distributed as generously as the small capacity of the sacks permitted.
Two cars equipped with tables for reading and writing and with a big cocoa urn were stationed
at Verst 455, where the headquarters train and reserve units stood. These cars were moved to
points north and south on the line twice weekly for small detachments to get their ration of
biscuit and sweets, small as it was.

RED CROSS PHOTO Christmas Dinner, Convalescent Hospital

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO "Come and Get It" at Verst 455

WAGNER Doughboys Drubbed Sailors Brig. Gen. Richardson and Adm. McCully at Army-Navy Game

WAGNER Yank and Scot Guarding Prisoners

"Another row of cars was maintained at Obozerskaya, where the first outpost entertainment hut
was opened about Christmas time with a program of moving pictures, athletic stunts and feeds.
Shipments were made from this base to the secretaries at Seletskoe, who did their best to make
the winter less monotonous and miserable for the second battalion men stationed on that front.
The "Y" opened a hut in Pinega in early November, and by the middle of December had established
a point for the "H" Company men west of Emtsa on, the Onega River line.

"Meanwhile, the Central "Y" hut at Archangel had been remodelled and fully equipped for handling
large crowds, and it served several hundred allied soldiers daily. Whenever a company of Americans
came in from the front, a special night was arranged for them to have a program in the theatre
hall, with movies, songs, stunts and eats on the bill. A series of basketball games was carried
on between the base unit companies and other commands which were in Archangel for a week or
more awaiting transfer to another point. Huts were opened in the Smolny base camp at Solombola,
both of them barely large enough to afford room for a cocoa and biscuit counter, a piano, and
a reading room. Shortly after Christmas another "Y" station was put in commission across the
river at the Preestin railroad terminal, where detachments and individuals often endured a
long wait in the cold or arrived chilled to the bone from a trip on the heatless cars.

"About Christmas time twenty-five more secretaries arrived from the American Y. M. C. A. headquarters
in England, and with this addition to personnel, it was possible to make headquarters something
more than a table and a telephone. A fairly efficient supply and office staff was built up
and with the landing of two or three belated cargoes, "Y" folk began to see a rosier period
ahead. But transport difficulties made it almost impossible to get stuff moved to the front,
where the men needed it most. 'When there are neither guns nor ammunition enough,' said the
British headquarters, 'how can we afford to take sleds for sending up biscuits and cigarettes?'

"Nevertheless, by hook or crook, several convoys were pushed through to Bereznik, each time
reviving the hopes of the men in the outposts, who thought at last they might get some regular
service. Tom Cotton and "Husky" Merrill, two football stars from Dartmouth, were in charge
of the "Y" points on the Dvina advanced front, and whatever success the "Y" attained in that
vicinity belongs primarily to their credit. They ended an eventful career in the spring of
1919 by getting captured when the Bolsheviks and Russian mutineers staged a coup d'etat at
Toulgas and captured the village. Their escape was more a matter of luck than of planning.
They paddled down the river in a boat. In their hasty exit from the village, they left behind
all their personal belongings.

"At Shenkursk the "Y" hut and stock also fell to the Bolos, but the secretaries got out with
the troops. The column which made the terrible retreat from Shenkursk found the "Y" waiting
for it at Shegovari, with hot cocoa and biscuit. Despite the congested transport, the service
on this line was kept up all through the winter and spring, "Dad" Albertson, "Ken" Hollinshead
and Brackett Lewis making themselves mighty effective in their service to the men on this sector.
Albertson has written a book, "Fighting Without a War," which embodies his experiences and
observations with the doughboys at the front.

"One of the best pieces of service performed by the "Y" during the whole campaign was carried
on at the time of the fierce Bolshevik drive for Obozerskaya from the west in February and
March. This drive cost the "Y" two of its best secretaries, but service was maintained without
a break from the first day until the end when the Bolos retreated. Merle Arnold was in the
village running a "Y" post when the attack occurred and was captured along with six American
soldiers. Bryant Ryall, who ran the "Y" tent in the woods at Verst 18, next fell a victim to
the Bolos, while on the way to Obozerskaya for more supplies. Olmstead, who came from 455 to
help in this desperate place, remained, and as a result of his work at this front, received
the French Croix de Guerre and the Russian St. George Cross.

"Other decorations were awarded to Ernest Rand on the Pinega sector and to "Dad" Albertson
on the Dvina front, both of them receiving the St. George Cross. The British military medal
was to have been given Albertson, but technicalities made it impossible. Several other secretaries
were mentioned in despatches by the American and British commands, all of them for service
at the fighting front. It was the policy of the "Y" from the start to send the best men to
the front, rush the best supplies to the front, give the men from the front the best service
while at the base camps, and do it without thought of payment. It is a fact that the Archangel
'show' cost the "Y" more per capita served than any other piece of front service rendered overseas.
The heavy cost was accentuated by the immense loss to supplies in the supply ships, warehouses
and cars or convoys, from theft and breakage and freezing. The totals of the business done
by the "Y" up in the Russian Arctic area are astounding, when the difficulties of transport
are considered More than $1,000,000 worth of supplies were received and distributed before
the American troops left Archangel. This included twenty-five motion picture outfits, everyone
of which was in use by late spring, a million and a half feet of film, fairly large shipments
of athletic goods, baseball equipment and phonographs, and thousands of books and magazines,
which filled a most important part in the program. Until early spring the "Y" bought most of
its canteen supplies from the British N. A. C. B., through a credit established in London.
These stocks were sold to the "Y" virtually at the British retail prices and were resold at
the same figures, with a resulting loss to the "Y," as the loss and damage mounted up to forty
per cent at times. In May, several shipments of American canteen stocks arrived at Archangel,
which enabled the secretaries to cut loose the strings on 'ration plans' before the troops
started home.

"A hut was opened at the embarkation point, Economia, in the early spring, and troops quartered
there had a complete red triangle service ready for them when sailing time arrived. A secretary
or two went with each transport, equipped with a small stock of sweets and cigarettes to distribute
on the voyage. Most of the American secretaries did not leave, however, until after the troops
departed. Some of them remained until the closing act of the show in August. Two more were
captured when the Bolos staged their mutiny at Onega. All these men eventually were released
from captivity in Moscow and reached America safely.

"The Y. M. C. A. received hearty co-operation from the American Red Cross, from the American
Embassy, and from the American headquarters units. Sugar and cocoa were turned over frequently
by the Red Cross when the "Y" ran completely out of stocks and an unstinted use of Red Cross
facilities was open at all times to the "Y" men. The embassy and consulate transmitted the
"Y" cables through their offices to England and America and co-operated with urgent pleas for
aid at times when such pleas were essential to the adoption of policies to better the "Y" service.
The headquarters of the 339th Infantry and the 310th Engineers responded to every reasonable
request made by the "Y" for assignments of helpers, huts or other facilities in the different
areas where work was carried on. The naval command showed special courtesies in forwarding
supplies on cruisers and despatch boats from England and Murmansk and in permitting the "Y"
men to travel on their ships.

"Altogether more than sixty American secretaries took part in the North Russian show. About
eight or ten of them, however, were on the Murmansk line, and were said by the American command
to have done good work with the engineers and sailors in that area. Whatever record the American
"Y" made in North Russia, it can in truth be said of the secretarial force that with few exceptions
they gave the best that was in them and they never felt satisfied with their work. The service
which Olmstead and Cotton and Arnold and Albertson and Beekman and a dozen others rendered,
ranks with the best work done by the Y. M. C. A. men in any part of the world. Correspondents
from the front in France and members of the American command who arrived late in the day, expressed
their surprise and gratification at the spirit which animated the "Y" workers up in the Russian
Arctic region. But the best test is the record which lives in the hearts of American soldiers,
and on their fairminded testimony the "Y" men wish to secure their verdict for whatever they
deserve for their service in North Russia with the American soldiers fighting the Bolsheviki."

TO OUR Y. W. C. A. AMERICAN GIRLS

In that old school reader of ours we used to read with wet eyes and tight throat the story
of the soldier who lay dying at Bingen on the Rhine and told his buddie to tell his sister
to be kind to all the comrades. How he yearned for the touch of his mother's or sister's hand
in that last hour, how the voice of woman and her liquid eye of love could soothe his dying
moments. And the veterans of the World War now understand that poetic sentiment better than
they did when as barefooted boys they tried to conceal their emotions behind the covers of
the book, for in the unlovely grime and grind of war the soldier came to long for the sight
of his own women kind. They will now miss no opportunity to sing the praises of their war time
friends, the Salvation Army Lassies and the girls of the Y. W. C. A.

In North Russia we were out of luck in the lack of Salvation Army Lassies enough to reach around
to our front, but in that isolated war area we were fortunate to receive several representatives
of the American Y. W. C. A. Some were girls who had already been in Russia for several years
in the regular mission work among the Russian people, and two of them we hasten to add right
here, were brave enough to stay behind when we cut loose from the country. Miss Dunham and
Miss Taylor were to turn back into the interior of the country and seek to help the pitiful
people of Russia. We take our hats off to them.

What doughboy will forget the first sight he caught of an American "Y" girl in North Russia?
He gave her his eyes and ears and his heart all in a minute. Was he in the hospital? Her smile
was a memory for days afterward. If a convalescent who could dance, the touch of her arm and
hand and the happy swing of the steps swayed him into forgetfulness of the pain of his wounds.
If he were off outpost duty on a sector near the front line and seeking sweets at a Y. M. C.
A. his sweets were doubled in value to him as he took them from the hand of the "Y" girl behind
the counter. Or at church service in Archangel her voice added a heavenly note to the hymn.
In the Hostess House, he watched her pass among the men showering graciousness and pleasantries
upon the whole lonesome lot of doughboys. One of the boys wrote a little poem for The American
Sentinel which may be introduced here in prose garb a la Walt Mason.

"There's a place in old Archangel, That we never will forget, And of all the cozy places, It's
the soldier's one best bet. It's the place where lonely Sammies Hit the trail for on the run,
There they serve you cake and coffee, 'Till the cake and coffee's done. And they know that
after eating, There's another pleasure yet,-- So to show how they are thoughtful, They include
a cigarette. There's a place back in the corner, Where you get your clothing checked, And the
place is yours, They tell you, --well--Or words to that effect. There are magazines a-plenty,
From the good old U. S. A. There's a cheery home-like welcome for you any time of day. Will
we, can we e'er forget them, In the future golden years, And the kindness that was rendered,
By these Lady Volunteers? Just as soon as work is finished, Don't you brush your hair and blouse,
And go double-double timing, To the cordial Hostess House?"

One of the pretty weddings in Archangel that winter was that celebrated by the boys when Miss
Childs became home-maker for Bryant Ryal, the "Y" man who was later taken prisoner by the Bolsheviki.
She was within twelve miles of him the day he was captured. Doughboys were quick to offer her
comforting assurances that he would be treated well because American "Y" men had done so much
in Russia for the Russian soldiers before the Bolshevik debacle. And when they heard that he
was actually on his way to Moscow with fair chance of liberation, they crowded the taplooska
Ryal home and made it shine radiantly with their congratulations.

But it was not the institutional service such as the Hostess House or the Huts or the box car
canteen, such as it was, which endeared the "Y" girls to the doughboys as a lot. It was the
genuine womanly friendliness of those girls.

The writer will never forget the scene at Archangel when the American soldiers left for Economia
where the ship was to take them to America. Genuine were the affectionate farewells of the
people--men, women and children; and genuine were the responses of the soldiers to those pitiable
people. Our Miss Dickerson, of the Y. W. C. A. Hostess House, was surrounded by a tearful group
of Russian High School girls who had been receiving instruction in health, sanitation and other
social betterments and catching the American Young Women's Christian Association vision of
usefulness to the sick, ignorant and unhappy ones of the community. Around her they gathered,
a beautiful picture of feminine grief in its sweet purity of girlish tears, and at the same
time a beautiful picture of promising hope for the future of Russia when all of that long-suffering
people may be reached by our tactful Christian women.

In this connection now I think of the conversation with our Miss Taylor the last Sunday we
were in Economia. She and Miss Dunham were staying on in Archangel hoping to get permission
to go into the interior of the country again. And it is reported that they did. She said to
me: "Wherever you can, back home among Christian people, tell them that these poor people here
in Russia have had their religious life so torn up by this strife that now they long for teachers
to come and help them to regain a religious expression."

A prominent worker among the College Y. M. C. A.'s in America, "Ken" Hollinshead, who was a
"Y" secretary far up on the Dvina River in the long, cold, desperate winter, also caught the
vision of the needs of the Russian people who had been Rasputinized and Leninized out of the
faith of their fathers and were pitifully like sheep without a shepherd. He remarked to the
writer that when the Bolshevist nightmare is over in Russia, he would like to go back over
there and help them to revive what was vital and essential in their old faith and to improve
it by showing them the American way of combining cleanliness with godliness, education with
creed-holding, work with piety.

Can the Russians be educated? The soldiers know that many a veteran comrade of theirs in the
war was an Americanized citizen. He had in a very few years in America gained a fine education.
The general reader of this page may look about him and discover examples for himself. Last
winter in a little church in Michigan the writer found the people subscribing to the support
of a citizen of the city who, a Russian by birth, came to this country to find work and opportunity.
He was drawn into the so-called mission church in the foreign settlement of the city, learned
to speak and read English, caught a desire for education, is well-educated and now with his
American bride goes to Russia on a Christian mission, to labor for the improvement of his own
nation. He is to be supported by that little congregation of American people who have a vision
of the kind of help Russia needs from our people.

Another story may be told. When the writer saw her first in Russia, she was the centre of interest
on the little community entertainment hall dance floor. She had the manner of a lady trying
to make everyone at ease. American soldiers and Russian soldiers and civil populace had gathered
at the hall for a long program--a Russian drama, soldier stunts, a raffle, a dance which consisted
of simple ballet and folk dances. The proceeds of the entertainment were to go toward furnishing
bed linen, etc., for the Red Cross Hospital being organized by the school superintendent and
his friends for the service of many wounded men who were falling in the defense of their area.

She was trim of figure and animated of countenance. Her hair was dressed as American women
attractively do theirs. Her costume was dainty and her feet shod in English or American shoes.
We could not understand a word of her Russian tongue but were charmed by its friendly and well-mannered
modulations. We made inquiries about her. She was the wife of a man who, till the Bolsheviki
drove the "intelligenza" out, had been a professor in an agricultural school of a high order.
Now they were far north, seeking safety in their old peasant city and she was doing stenographer
duty in the county government office.

We often mused upon the transformation. Only a few years before she had been as one of the
countless peasant girls of the dull-faced, ill-dressed, red-handed, coarse-voiced type which
we had seen everywhere with tools and implements of drudgery, never with things of refinement,
except, perhaps, when we had seen them spinning or weaving. And here before us was one who
had come out from among them, a sight for weary eyes and a gladness to heavy ears. How had
she accomplished the metamorphosis? The school had done it, or rather helped her to the opportunity
to rise. She had come to the city-village high school and completed the course and then with
her ability to patter the keys of a Russian typewriter's thirty-six lettered keyboard, had
travelled from Archangel to Moscow, to Petrograd, to Paris, to complete her education. And
she told the writer one time that she regretted she had not gone to London and New York before
she married the young Russian college professor.

The school,--the common school and the high school--therein lies the hope of Russia. What that
woman has done, has been done by many another ambitious Russian girl and will be done by many
girls of Russia. Russian boys and girls if given the advantages of the public school will develop
the Russian nation.

XXXV

"DOBRA" CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL

Description Of Hospital Building--Grateful Memories--Summary Of Medical And Surgical Cases--Feeding
The Convalescents--Care And Entertainment --Captain Greenleaf Fine Manager.

The American Convalescent Hospital at Archangel, Russia (American Expeditionary Forces, North
Russia), was opened October 1, 1918, in a building formerly used as a Naval School of Merchant
Sailors. A two and one-half story building, facing the Dvina River and surrounded by about
two acres of land, over one-half of which was covered with an attractive growth of white birch
trees. The entire building, with the exception of one room, Chief Surgeon's Office, and two
smaller rooms, for personnel of the Chief Surgeon's Office and the Convalescent Hospital, was
devoted to the American convalescent patients and their care. The half story, eighty-five by
eighty-five feet square, over the main building, was used for drying clothes and as a store
room. The building proper was of wood construction, with two wings (one story) constructed
with 24-inch brick and plaster walls. The floors were wood, the walls smoothly plastered and
the general appearance, inside and outside, attractive.

In addition to the inside latrines, an outside latrine with five seats and a urinal was built
by our men. This latrine contained a heater.

Nearly all the windows, throughout the building, were double sash and glass and could be opened
for sufficient air, dependent upon the outside temperature. The first floor ceilings were fourteen
feet in height, those on the second floor were twelve feet high. No patient had less than six
hundred cubic feet of air space.

Large brick stoves, one in the smaller and two in the larger rooms, heavily constructed and
lined with fire brick, heated the building. A wood fire was built in these stoves twice daily,
with sufficient heat being thrown off to produce a comfortable, uniform temperature at all
times. The building was lighted by electricity. The entire building was rewired by American
electricians and extra lights placed as necessary. The beds were wooden frame with heavy canvas
support. These beds were made by American carpenters. Each patient was supplied with five blankets.

During the first four months it was necessary for the men to use a near-by Russian bath-house
for bathing. This was done weekly and a check kept upon the patients. February 1st, 1919, a
wing was completed with a Thresh Disinfector (for blankets and clothing), a wash room and three
showers. A large boiler furnished hot water at all hours. The construction of this building
was begun November 1st, 1918, but inability to obtain a boiler and plumbing materials deferred
its completion. Three women were employed for washing and ironing, and clean clothing was available
at all times.

Water buckets were located on shelves in accessible places throughout the building for use
in case of fire. Each floor had a hose attachment. Two fires from overheated stoves were successfully
extinguished without injury to patients or material damage to the building. The main floors
were scrubbed daily with a two per cent creosole solution, the entire floor space every other
day. All rooms contained sufficient box cuspidors filled with sawdust.

The kitchen contained a large brick stove and ovens and this, in conjunction with a smaller
stove on the second floor, could be utilized to prepare food for three hundred men. Bartering
with the Russians was permitted. By this means, as well as comforts supplied by the American
Red Cross, such as cocoa, chocolate, raisins, condensed milk, honey, sugar, fruit (dried and
canned), oatmeal, corn meal, rice, dates and egg powder, a well balanced diet was maintained
throughout the winter. Semi-monthly reports of all exchanges, by bartering, were forwarded
to Headquarters. The usual mess kits and mess line were employed. The large dining and recreation
room had sufficient tables and benches to seat all patients. Boiled drinking water was accessible
at all times. During the eight months the Hospital has been operating, over 3,872 pounds of
grease, 2,138 pounds of bones and 8,460 pounds of broken and stale bread have been bartered
with Russian peasants. In return, besides eggs, fish, veal and other vegetables over 32,600
pounds (902 poods) of potatoes have been received. Accompanying this report is a statement
(a) of British rations (one week issue), (b) a statement of food barter (17 days) and (c) the
menu for one week.

The large room, facing the river, twenty-eight feet by sixty-one feet, was available for mess
hall, recreation and entertainments. The space, twenty-eight feet by twenty-one feet, was separated
by a projecting wall and pillars and contained a victrola and records, a piano, a library (one
hundred fifty books furnished by the American Red Cross, exchanged at intervals), a magazine
rack, reading table, machine guns and rack, a bulletin board and several comfortable chairs
made by convalescents. A portable stage for entertainments was placed in this space when required.
A complete set of scenery with flies and curtains was presented by the American Red Cross.
In the center of the room a regulation boxing ring could be strung, the benches and tables
being so arranged as to form an amphitheatre. The entire room could be cleared for dancing.
At one end was a movie screen and in the adjoining room a No. 6 Powers movie machine which
was obtained from the American Y. M. C. A. and installed December 5th, 1918.

During the winter the following entertainments were given:

Vaudeville              5 Boxing exhibitions      4 Lectures                4 Minstrel shows
2 Dances                 10 Musical entertainments  6 Russian                 3 English   
2 Band concert            1 Kangaroo court          1

A twelve-piece orchestra from the 339th Infantry band furnished music for the dances as well
as occasionally during Sunday dinners. Each Wednesday and Sunday nights moving pictures were
shown. These included a number of war films showing operations on the Western Front and productions
of Fairbanks, Farnum, Billy Burke, Eltinge, Hart, Mary Pickford, Kerrigan, Arbuckle, Bunny
and Chaplin. During May baseballs, gloves and bats have been supplied by the American Y. M.
C. A. Sunday afternoons religious services were conducted by chaplains of the American Force.

Canteen supplies, consisting of chocolate, stick candy, gum, cigars, cigarettes, smoking and
chewing tobacco, toilet soap, tooth paste, canned fruits (pineapple, pears, cherries, apricots,
peaches) and canned vegetables could be purchased from the Supply Company, 339th Infantry.
These supplies were drawn on the first of each month and furnished the men at cost.

The personnel consisted of Capt. C. A. Greenleaf, Commanding Officer, Medical Corps; an officer
from the Supply Company, 339th Infantry (charge of equipment); two Sergeants, Medical Corps;
three Privates, Medical Corps. With these exceptions all the details required for the care
and maintenance of the hospital were furnished by men selected from the convalescent patients.

It took seventy-six men every day for the various kitchen, cleaning, clerical and guard details
and in addition other details from convalescent patients were made as follows: Six patrols
of ten men each, each patrol in charge of a non-commissioned officer and three sections of
machine gunners were always prepared for an emergency. Guards were furnished for Headquarters
building. Two type-setters and one proof-reader reported for work, daily, at the office of
The American Sentinel (a weekly publication for the American troops). Typists, stenographers
and clerks were furnished different departments at Headquarters as required. Orderlies, kitchen
police and cooks were furnished to the American Red Cross Hospital and helpers to American
Red Cross Headquarters. This was light work always which was conducive to the convalescence
of the men.

Captain Greenleaf always managed to care for all patients. On January 18th, 1919, a ward was
opened at Olga Barracks which accommodated twenty-five patients. These patients were rationed
by Headquarters Company and reported for sick call at the infirmary located in the same building.

On March 11th, 1919, an Annex was opened at Smolny Barracks with eighty beds. For this purpose
a barracks formerly occupied by enlisted men was remodelled. New floors were put in, the entire
building sheathed on the inside, rooms constructed for office and sick call and a kitchen in
which a new stove and ovens were built. This Annex was operated from the Convalescent Hospital,
one Sergeant, Medical Corps, and two Privates, Medical Corps, were detailed to this building.
Details from the patients operated the mess and took care of the building. Supplies were sent
daily from the hospital to the Annex and the mess was of the same character.

On April 28th, 1919, three tents were erected in the yard of the Hospital. Plank floors were
built, elevated on logs and these accommodated thirty-six patients. On April 28th, 1919, with
the Hospital, Annex and tents two hundred eight-two patients could be accommodated. This number
represents the maximum Convalescent Hospital capacity, during its existence and was sufficient
for the requirements of the American Forces. The ward at Olga Barracks was only used for a
few weeks.

During April eighty-two patients were discharged from the Convalescent Hospital and sent to
Smolny Barracks for "Temporary Light Duty at Base."

The Convalescent Hospital was the best place, bar none, in Russia, to eat in winter of 1918-19.
The commanding officer was fortunate to have as a patient the mess sergeant of Company "D."
That resourceful doughboy took the rations issued by the British and by systematic bartering
with the natives he built up a famous mess. Below is a verbatim extract from Captain Greenleaf's
report.

BARTER RETURN Period: 17 days--from March 27th, 1919, to April 14th. 1919

COMMODITIES BARTERED Bread, stale       372  lbs. Bread, pieces of   403 Grease           
365  lbs. Bones              331  lbs. Beans              425  lbs. Peas               156
lbs. Rice               746  lbs. Dates               25  lbs. Bacon              678  lbs.
Lard               960  lbs. Sugar              274  lbs. Jam                 56  lbs. Pea
Soup           318  pkgs. Limejuice            3  cases

COMMODITIES RECEIVED IN RETURN Potatoes  5281   lbs. Carrots    133   lbs. Cabbage    339.5
lbs. Turnips    851   lbs. Onions     200   lbs. Veal       938   lbs. Liver       76.5  lbs.

From October 1st, 1918, to June 12th, 1919, this American Convalescent Hospital served eleven
hundred and eighty out of the fifty-five hundred Americans of the expeditionary force. From
Captain Greenleaf's official report the following facts of interest are presented.

Of infectious and epidemic diseases there were two hundred and forty-six cases of which four
were mumps, one hundred and sixty-seven were influenza and the remainder complications which
resulted from influenza. The pneumonia cases developed early. One man reported from guard duty,
developed a rapidly involving pneumonia which soon became general and culminated in death within
twenty-four hours. The best results followed the use of Dovers powder and quinine,--alternation
two and one-half grains of Dovers with five grains of quinine every two hours, five to ten
grains of Dovers being given at bedtime. Expectorants were given as required. Very little stimulation
was necessary. Many of these cases, after the acute symptoms subsided, showed a persistent
tachycardia which continued for some days and in a few cases (seven) became chronic. In these
cases medication proved of little benefit, rest and a proper diet being the most efficacious
treatment. Patients convalescing from pneumonia were evacuated to England or given Base Duty.

Of tuberculosis there were only thirteen cases which were as far as possible isolated. Of venereal
cases there were only one hundred and seventy-four. They had received treatment in British
53rd Stationary Hospital, and came to the American Convalescent hospital simply for re-equipment.
Nearly all were immediately discharged to duty.

Of nervous diseases there were nineteen cases, all of which were neuritis except two cases
of paralysis. Of mental diseases and defects there were only fourteen. This is a remarkable
showing when we consider the strain of the strange, long, dark winter campaign, and of these
fourteen cases six were mental deficiency that were not detected by the experts at time of
enlistment and induction, three were hysteria, two neurasthenia, and three psychasthenia. Here
let us add that there was only one case of suicide and one case of attempted suicide.

There were eighteen eye cases and nineteen ear cases, three nose, and eighteen of the throat.
Of the circulatory system the total was sixty-eight of which twenty-two were heart trouble
and thirty-one hemorrhoids brought on by exposure.

There were eighty respiratory cases, ninety-three digestive cases, of which sixteen were appendicitis
and thirty-two were hernia. Of genito-urinary, which were non-venereal, there were twenty cases.
Of skin diseases there were thirty-nine. Scabies was the only skin lesion which has been common
among the troops. Warm baths and sulphur ointment were used with excellent results.

From exposure there were one hundred and one cases of bones and locomotion. Trench feet were
bad to treat. From external causes there were two hundred and fifty-five cases. Of these two
were burns, two dislocation, twenty-six severe frost bite cases, two exhaustion from exposure,
twenty-three fractures and sprains, and two hundred wound cases. Many severely wounded were
sent to Hospital ship "Kalyon," and many were evacuated to Base Section Three in England and
only the convalescent wounded, of course, came to the dobra convalescent hospital.

The following is Capt. Greenleaf's summary:

Patients                             1180 Hospital days, actual               17048 Hospital
days, per patient             14.45 Hospital days, awaiting evacuation  11196 Hospital days,
per patient              9.49 Hospital days, special duty          7273 Hospital days, per
patient              6.16 Hospital days, total                35517 Hospital days, per patient
30.10

NOTE--This table is made out in this manner for several reasons. In the first place evacuation
lists were submitted to the Chief Surgeon each Friday, containing a list of those patients
who were unfit for further front line duty in Russia. Lack of transportation and the long delays
in completing the evacuations should not be charged to actual hospital days. Again it was necessary,
under the conditions and owing to the fact that the hospital was dependent upon patients for
its existence, that men be selected who were competent to have charge of certain work. A most
efficient mess sergeant and competent cooks were selected. The men to have charge of the heating
system and boilers were chosen. Good interpreters were held. And many cases in which a competent
man entered as a patient, who was skillful in certain work, that man was held indefinitely,
for the good of the service and the hospital. In this summary these cases have been listed
as hospital days, special duty.

DISPOSITION OF PATIENTS IN AMERICAN CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL

EVACUATED TO ENGLAND
October  27, 1918   46
December  6, 1918   56
December 27, 1918   10
January  24, 1919    7
February 24, 1919   15
June      1, 1919  183
                   ----
          Total    317

DISCHARGED TO AMERICAN RED CROSS HOSPITAL For surgical attention   24 For medical attention    18

DISCHARGED TO BRITISH HOSPITALS For special treatment    13

DISCHARGED TO DUTY      808

The medical care of our comrades was as well-looked after as possibly could be in North Russia.
All patients were examined, when they entered the hospital and classified. They were marked,--no
duty, light duty inside, light duty outside, light duty sitting, or light duty not involving
the use of right (or left) arm. A record, showing their organization, company, rank, duty,
diagnosis, date of admission, source of admission, room and bed, was made. Their business in
private life was considered and they were assigned to work compatible with their training.
Any medication they might need was prescribed. Owing to lack of bottles patients reported for
medicine four times daily and a record was thus kept of dosage. Patients were examined weekly
and re-classified. Sick call was held, daily, at 8:30 a. m., at which time patients requiring
special attention, reported and also, surgical dressings were applied.

The last patient was discharged to duty June 12th, 1919. We know that the one thousand one
hundred and eighty men who passed through that hospital join the writers in saying that, considering
conditions, the convalescent hospital was a wonder.

XXXVI

AMERICAN RED CROSS IN NORTH RUSSIA

American Red Cross On Errands Of Mercy Precede Troops--Summary Of Aid Given People--Aid And
Comforts Freely Given American Troops --Summary--Commendatory Words Of General Richardson--Our
Weekly "Sentinel" Put Out By Red Cross--Returned Men Strong For American Red Cross Work In
North Russia.

Even before the question of American participation in the Allied expedition to North Russia
had been decided upon, the American Red Cross had dispatched a mission of thirteen persons,
with four thousand two hundred tons of food and medicine, for the relief of the civilian population.
When, shortly thereafter, a considerable detachment of American doughboys, engineers and ambulance
corps troops were landed, the Red Cross had the nucleus of an organization to provide for the
needs of our soldiers as well as for the civilian population.

A report, made public here by the American Red Cross on its work in North Russia, gives an
interesting picture of conditions on our Arctic battle front during the war. The food situation
among the civilian population was acute. With the city swollen in population through a steady
influx of refugees, few fresh supplies were coming in and hoarded supplies were rapidly diminishing.
Coarse bread and fish were staple articles of food, and there was a grave shortage of clothing.

The desperate need for foodstuffs in the regions far north along the Arctic shores was brought
sharply to the attention of the Allied Food Committee when delegates from Pechora arrived by
reindeer teams and camped at the doors of the committee urging assistance. They brought samples
of the bread they were forced to eat. It was made of a small quantity of white flour mixed
with ground-up dried fish. Other samples which were shown were made from immature frostbitten
rye grain, and a third was composed of a small quantity of white flour mixed with reindeer
moss. A small quantity of rye flour mixed with chopped coarse straw, was the basis of a fourth
example.

Much attention was devoted by the Red Cross to caring for school children and orphans. Over
two million hot lunches were distributed, during a period of a few months, to three hundred
and thirty schools with twenty thousand pupils. Every orphanage in the district was outfitted
with the things it needed and received a regular fortnightly issue of food supplies. Over twenty
thousand suits of underwear were given out to refugees. To provide for the many persons separated
from their families or from employment on account of the war, the Red Cross established a regular
free employment agency.

The writer recalls having seen in Pinega in February men who had left their Petchora homes
eight months before to go to Archangel for the precious flour provided by the American Red
Cross. The civil war had made transportation slow and extremely hazardous.

Expeditions were constantly sent out from Archangel to various points with supplies of food,
clothing, and medicaments. The most extensive of the civilian relief enterprises undertaken
by the Red Cross Mission to Russia was the sending of a boat from Archangel to Kern with a
cargo of fifty-five tons. This was distributed either by the Red Cross officials themselves
or by responsible local authorities.

Food rations and clothing were given to three hundred destitute families in Archangel which,
upon careful investigation, were found to be deserving. Housing conditions were improved and
clothing, which had been salvaged from sunken steamers and lay idle in the customs house, was
dried and distributed.

Besides supplying all Russian civilian hospitals in and around Archangel regularly with medicine,
sheets, blankets, pillows and food rations, the Red Cross opened up a Red Cross hospital in
Archangel, which was finally turned over to the local government to be used as a base hospital
for the Russian army. Red Cross medicines are credited with having checked the serious influenza
epidemic and with having worked against its recurrence.

Medicaments worth one million roubles were sent by the Red Cross to the various district zemstvos.
Russian prisoners of war, returning from Germany through the Bolshevik lines to North Russia,
were also taken care of.

Work among the American soldiers in North Russia was thorough and effective. The daily ration
was supplemented and many American soldiers received from the Red Cross quantities of rolled
oats, sugar, milk, and rice, besides all the regular Red Cross comforts, including cigarettes,
stationery, chewing gum, athletic goods, playing cards, toilet articles, phonographs, sweaters,
socks, blankets, etc.

Supplies were sent as regularly as possible to the troops on the line, generally in the face
of apparently insurmountable transportation difficulties. Units of troops, even in the most
inaccessible and out of the way places, were visited by Red Cross workers, occasionally at
great danger to their lives.

With the assistance of the Red Cross The American Sentinel, a weekly newspaper, was printed
and distributed among the troops and did much to keep up their morale. One of the last acts
performed by the Red Cross for the American Expeditionary Forces in Archangel was to help and
speed to their new homes eight war brides.

The veteran of the North Russian expedition will never look at his old knit helmet or wristlets,
scarf, or perhaps eat a rare dish of rolled oats, or bite off a chew of plug, or listen to
a certain piece on the graphaphone, or look at a Red Cross Christmas Seal without a warm feeling
under his left breast pocket for the American Red Cross.

PRIMM View of Archangel in Summer

U S. OFFICIAL PHOTO General Ironside Inspecting Doughboys

U S OFFICIAL PHOTO Burial of Lieut. Clifford Phillips

XXXVII

CAPTIVE DOUGHBOYS IN BOLSHEVIKDOM

Doughboy Captives Still Coming Out Of Red Russia--Red Cross Starts Prisoner Exchange In Archangel
Area--White Flag Incidents In No Man's Land--Remarkable Picture Taken--Men Who Were Liberated--Sergeant
Leitzell's Gripping Story Of Their Captivity.

In August, 1920, came out of Bolshevik Russia, as startlingly as though from the grave, Corp.
Prince of "B" Company, who had been wounded and captured at Toulgas, March 1, 1919. This leads
to our story of the captives in Bolshevikdom. One of the interesting incidents of the spring
defensive was the exchange of prisoners. It was brought about quite largely through the efforts
of the American Red Cross, which was very anxious to try to get help to the Americans still
in interior Russia, especially the prisoners of war. When the Bolsheviki captured the Allied
men at Bolsheozerki in March they took a British chaplain, who pleaded that he was a non-combatant
and belonged to a fraternal order whose principles were similar to the Soviet principles. Thinking
they had a convert, the Soviet Commissar gave Father Roach his freedom and sent him through
the lines at the railroad front in April.

News was brought back by Father Roach that many American and British and French prisoners were
at Moscow or on their way to Moscow.

Accordingly, the American Red Cross was instrumental in prevailing upon the military authorities
to open white flag conversations at the front line in regard to a possible exchange of prisoners.
A remarkable photograph is included in this volume of that first meeting. One or two other
meetings were not quite so formal. At one time the excited Bolos forgot their own men and the
enemy who were parleying in the middle of No Man's Land, and started a lively artillery duel
with the French artillery. At another time the Americans' Russian Archangel Allies got excited
and fired upon the Bolshevik soldiers who were sitting under a white flag on the railroad track
watching the American captain come towards them. Happy to say, there were no casualties by
this mistake. But it sure was a ticklish undertaking for the Americans themselves later in
the day to walk out under a flag of truce to explain the mistake and inquire about the progress
of the prisoners exchange conversations going on. At Vologda, American, British and French
officers were guests of the Bolshevik authorities. Their return was expected and came during
the first week of May.

One American soldier, Pvt. Earl Fulcher, of "H" Company, and one French soldier were brought
back and in exchange for them four former Bolshevik officers were given. Report was brought
that other soldiers were being given their freedom by the Bolshevik government and were going
out by way of Petrograd and Viborg, Finland. It was learned that some American soldiers were
in hospital under care of the Bolshevik medical men. Every effort was made by military authorities
in North Russia to clear up the fate of the many men who had been reported missing in action
and missing after ambush by the Reds who cut off an occasional patrol of Americans or British
or French soldiers.

But the Bolshevik military authorities were unable to trace all of their prisoners. In the
chaos of their organization it is not surprising. We know that our own War Department lost
Comrade Anthony Konjura, Company "A" 310th Engineers, while he was on his way home from Russia,
wounded, on the hospital ship which landed him in England. There his mother went and found
him in a hospital. An American sergeant whose story appears in this volume, says that while
he was in Moscow six British soldiers were luckily discovered by the Red authorities in a foul
prison where they had been lost track of. Even as this book goes to press we are still hoping
that others of our own American comrades and of our allies will yet come to life out of Russia
and be restored to their own land and loved ones.

Corporal Arthur Prince, of "B" Company, who was ambushed and wounded and captured in March,
1919, at Toulgas was, finally in August, 1920, released from hospital and prison in Russia
and crippled and sick joined American troops in Germany. His pluck and stamina must have been
one hundred per cent to stand it all those long seventeen months. His comrade, Herbert Schroeder,
of "B" Company, who was captured on the 21st of September, has never been found. His comrades
still hope that he was the American printer whom the Reds declared was printing their propaganda
in English for them at Viatka.

Comrade George Albers, "I" Company, in November, 1918, was on a lone observation post at the
railroad front. A Bolo reconnaissance patrol surprised and caught him. He was the American
soldier who was shown to the comrades at Kodish on the river bridge after Armistice Day. He
was afterward sent on to Moscow and went out with others to freedom. With him went out Comrades
Walter Huston and Mike Haurlik of "C" Company, who had been taken prisoners in action on November
29th near Ust Padenga on the same day that gallant Cuff and his ten men were trapped and all
were killed or captured. These two men survived. In this liberated party was also Comrade Anton
Vanis, of Company "D" who was lost in the desperate rear guard action at Shegovari. Also came
Comrade William R. Schuelke, "H" Company, who had been given up for dead. And in the party
was Merle V. Arnold, American "Y" man, who had been captured in March at Bolsheozerki. Six
of our allied comrades, Royal Scots, came out with the party. These men all owed their release
chiefly to the efforts of Mr. L. P. Penningroth, of Tipton, Iowa, Secretary of the Prisoners-of-War
Release Station in Copenhagen, who secured the release of the men by going in person to Moscow.

With the return of Comrade Schuelke we learn that he was one of the "H" Company patrol under
Corporal Collins which was ambushed near Bolsheozerki, March 17th. One of his comrades, August
Peterson, died April 12th in a Bolshevik hospital. His Corporal, Earl Collins, was in the same
hospital severely wounded. His fate is still unknown but doubtless he is under the mossy tundra.
His comrade, Josef Romatowski, was killed in the ambush, comrade John Frucce was liberated
via Finland and his comrade, Earl Fulcher, as we have seen, was exchanged on the railroad front
in May.

On March 31st two other parties of Americans were caught in ambush by the Reds who had surrounded
the Verst 18 Force near Bolsheozerki. Mechanic Jens Laursen of "M" Company was captured along
with Father Roach and the British airplane man wounded in the action which cost also the life
of Mechanic Dial of "M" Company. And at the same time another party going from the camp toward
Obozerskaya consisting of Supply Sergeant Glenn Leitzell and Pvt. Freeman Hogan of "M" Company
together with Bryant Ryal, a "Y" man, going after supplies, were captured by the Reds. These
men were all taken to Moscow and later liberated. Their story has been written up in an interesting
way by Comrade Leitzell. It fairly represents the conditions under which those prisoners of
war in Bolshevikdom suffered till they were liberated:

"On March 31st, 1919, at 8:30 a. m. I left the front lines with a comrade, Freeman Hogan, and
a Russian driver, on my way back to Obozerskaya for supplies. About a quarter of a verst, 500
yards, from our rear artillery, we were surprised by a patrol of Bolos, ten or twelve in number,
who leaped out of the snowbanks and held us up at the point of pistols, grenades and rifles.
Then they stripped us of our arms and hurried us off the road and into the woods. To our great
surprise we were joined by Mr. Ryal, the Y. M. C. A. Secretary who had been just ahead of us.

"At once they started us back to their lines with one guard in front, three in the rear and
three on snow skiis on each side of the freshly cut trail in the deep snow. We knew from the
signs and from the fire fight that soon followed that a huge force of the Reds were in rear
of our force. After seven versts through the snow we reached the village of Bolsheozerki. On
our arrival we were met by a great many Bolsheviks who occupied the villages in tremendous
numbers. Some tried to beat us with sticks and cursed and spat on us as we were shoved along
to the Bolshevik commander.

"One of the camp loiterer's scowling eyes caught sight of the sergeant's gold teeth. His cupidity
was aroused. Raising his brass-bound old whipstock he struck at the prisoner's mouth to knock
out the shining prize. But the prisoner guard saved the American soldier from the blow by shoving
him so vigorously that he sprawled in the snow while the heavy whip went whizzing harmlessly
past the soldier's ear. The Bolo sleigh driver swore and the prisoner guard scowled menacingly
at the brutal but baffled comrade. The American soldiers needed no admonitions of skora skora
to make them step lively toward the Red General's headquarters.

"One of the first things we saw on our arrival was a Russian sentry who had gone over from
our lines. They demanded our blouses and fur caps, also our watches and rings. In a little
while we saw three others arrive--Father Roach of the 17th King's Company of Liverpool and
Private Stringfellow of the Liverpools, also Mechanic Jens Laursen of our own "M" Company who
had escaped death in the machine gun ambush that had killed his comrade Mechanic Dial and driver
and horse. Later Lieut. Tatham of the Royal Air Force came in with a shattered arm. His two
companions and the sleigh drivers had been mortally wounded and left by the Bolsheviks on the road.

"After that we had our interview with a Bolshevik Intelligence Officer who tried to get information
from us. But he got no information from us as we pleaded that we were soldiers of supply and
were not familiar with the details of the scheme of defense. And it worked. He sent us away
under guard, who escorted us in safety through the camp to a shack.

"Here we were billetted in a filthy room with a lot of Russian prisoners, some the survivors
of the defense of Bolsheozerki and some the recalcitrants or suspected deserters from the Bolo
ranks. We were given half of a salt fish, a lump of sour black bread and some water for our
hunger. On the bread we had to use an ax as it was frozen. We managed to thaw some of it out
and wash it down with water. After this we stretched in exhaustion on the floor and slept off
the day and night in spite of the constant roar of Bolo guns and the bursting of shells that
were coming from our camp at Verst 18. By that sign we knew the Bolo had not overpowered our
comrades by his day's fighting. It was the only comforting thought we had as we pulled the
dirty old rags about us that the Reds had given us in exchange for our overcoats and blouses,
and went to sleep.

"We woke up in the morning midst the roar of a redoubled fight. A fine April Fool's Day we
thought. We were stiff and sore and desperately hungry. But our breakfast was the remainder
of the fish and sour bread. Later the guard relieved us of some of our trinkets and pocket
money, after which they gave us our rations for the day, consisting of a half can of horse
meat, a salt fish, and twelve ounces of black bread.

"Then we were taken to see the General commanding this huge force. He gave us a cigarette,
which was very acceptable as we were quite unnerved, not knowing what would happen to us afterwards
if we gave no more information than we had the day before. He tried to impress us by taking
his pistol and pointing out on a map of the area just where his troops were that day surrounding
our comrades in the beleagured camp in the woods at Verst 18 on the road, as well as many versts
beyond them cutting a trail through the deep snow to the very railroad in rear of Obozerskaya.
He boasted that his forces that day would crush the opposing force and he would move upon Obozerskaya
and go up and down the railroad and clear away every obstacle as he had done in the Upper Vaga
Valley, where he boasted he had driven the Allied troops from Shenkursk and pursued them for
over sixty miles. Then he informed us that we were to be sent as prisoners to Moscow.

"Later in the morning we were started south toward Emtsa on foot. We could hear the distant
cannonading on the 445 front as we marched along during the day on the winter trail which if
it had been properly patrolled by the French and Russians would not have permitted the surprise
flank march in force by this small army that menaced the whole Vologda force. Our thirty-five
verst march that day and night--for we walked till 10:00 p. m.--was made more miserable by
the thought that our comrades were up against a far greater force than they dreamed, as was
evidenced to us by the hordes of men we had seen in Bolsheozerki and the transportation that
filled every verst of the trail from the south. We made temporary camp in a log hut along the
road, building a roaring fire outside. We would sleep a half hour and then go outside the hut
to thaw out by the fire, and so on through the wretched night.

"At 4:00 a. m. we started again our footsore march, after a fragment of black bread and a swallow
of water, and walked twenty-seven versts to Shelaxa, the Red concentration camp. Here we underwent
a minute search. All papers were taken for examination. Our American money was returned to
us, as was later a check on a London bank which one of my officers had given me. I secreted
it and some money so well in a waist belt that later I had the satisfaction of cashing the
check in Sweden into kronen in King Gustave's Royal Bank in Stockholm. After a meal of salt
fish and black bread fried in fish oil, and some hot water to drink, we were given an hour's
rest and then started on the road again to Emtsa, twenty-four versts away, reaching that railroad
point at midnight. Here we were brought before the camp commandant who roughly stripped us
of all our clothes except our breeches and gave us the Bolshevik underwear and ragged outer
garments that they had discarded. And buddies who have seen Bolo prisoners come into our lines
can imagine how bad a discarded Bolo coat or undershirt must be. After this we were locked
up in a box car with no fire and three guards over us.

"Next morning, April 3rd, the car door was opened and the Bolshevik soldiers made angry demonstrations
toward us and were kept out only by our guards' bayonets. We were fed some barley wash and
the rye bread which tasted wonderful after the previous food. I paid a British two-shilling
piece which I had concealed in my shoe to a guard to get me a tin to put our food in, and we
made wooden spoons. That night we were lined up against the car and asked if we knew that we
were going to be shot. But this event, I am happy to say, never took place. We went by train
to Plesetskaya that day. Father Roach was taken to the commandant's quarters and we did not
see him till the next day, when he told us he had enjoyed a fine night's sleep and expected
to be sent back across the lines and would take messages to our comrades to let them know we
were alive and on our way to Moscow."

It is interesting to note that the American Sergeant's insistence that he and his companions
be given bath and means to shave, won the respect and assistance of the guard and the Bolshevik
officer. Of course in making the two day's march in prisoner convoy from Bolsheozerki to Emtsa
there had been severe hardship and privation and painful uncertainty and mental agony over
their possible fate. And they had not stopped long enough in one place to enable them to make
an appeal for fair treatment.

Imagine the three American soldiers and the "Y" man and the two British soldiers sitting disconsolately
in a filthy taplooshka, hands and faces with three days and nights of grime and dirt, scratching
themselves under their dirty rags, cussing the active cooties that had come with the shirts,
and trying to soothe their itching bewhiskered faces. Here the resourceful old sergeant keenly
picked out the cleanest one of the guards and approached him with signs and his limited Russki
gavareet and made his protest at being left dirty. He won out. The soldier horoshawed several
times and seechassed away to return a few minutes later with a long Russian blade and a tiny
green cake of soap and a tin of hot water. Under the stimulation of a small silver coin from
the sergeant's store he assumed the role of barber and smoothed up the faces of the whole crowd
of prisoners. And then followed the trip under guard to the steaming bath-house that is such
a vivid memory to all soldiers who soldiered up there under the Arctic Circle. In this connection
it may be related that later on at Moscow the obliging Commissar of the block in which they
were quartered hunted up for them razors and soap and even found for them tooth brushes and
tubes of toothpaste which had been made in Detroit, U. S. A., and sold to Moscow merchants
in a happier time.

"On April 5th we left Plesetskaya, after saying good-bye to the English Chaplain who seemed
greatly pleased that he was to get his freedom and had his pockets full of Bolshevik propaganda.
We reached Naundoma after a night of terrible cold in the unheated car and during the next
two days on the railway journey to Vologda had nothing to eat. On April 7th we reached that
city and were locked up with about twenty Russians. Here we got some black bread that seemed
to have sand in it and some sour cabbage soup which we all shared, Russians and all, from a
single bucket. Next day we thought it a real improvement to have a separate tin and a single
wooden spoon for the forlorn group of Americans and British.

"At Plesetskaya we were questioned very thoroughly by a Russian officer who spoke English very
well and showed marked sympathy toward us and saw to it that we were better treated, and later
in Moscow saw to it that we had some small favors. In three days' time we were again on the
train for Moscow, travelling in what seemed luxury after our late experience. The trains to
Moscow ran only once a week as there were no materials to keep up the equipment.

"On our arrival we found the streets sloppy and muddy, with heaps of ice and snow and dead
horses among the rubbish. Few business places were open, all stores having been looted. Here
and there was a semi-illicit stand where horsemeat, salt fish, carrots or cabbage and parsnips,
and sour milk could be bought on the sly if you had the price. But it was very little at any
price and exceedingly uncertain of appearance. We were sent to join the other prisoners, French,
English, Scotch and Americans who had preceded us from the front to Moscow. They had tales
similar to ours to tell us.

"The next morning at 10:00 a. m. we were wondering when we would eat. The answer was: Twelve
noon. Cabbage soup headed the menu, then came dead horse meat, or salt fish if you chose it,
black bread and water. Same menu for supper. We learned that the people of the city fared scarcely
better. All were rationed. The soldiers and officials of the Bolsheviks fared better than the
others. Children were favored to some extent. But the 'intelligenza' and the former capitalists
were in sore straits. Many were almost starving. Death rate was high. The soldier got a pound
of bread, workmen half a pound, others a quarter of a pound. In this way they maintained their
army. Fight, work for the Red government or starve. Some argument. Liberty is unknown under
the Soviet rule. Their motto as I saw it is: What is yours is mine.'"

Captivity with all its desperate hardships and baleful uncertainties, had its occasional brighter
thread. The American boys feel especially grateful to Mr. Merle V. Arnold, of. Lincoln, Nebraska,
the American Y. M. C. A. man who had been captured by the Red Guards a few days preceding their
capture. He was able to do things for them when they reached Moscow. And when he was almost
immediately given his liberty and allowed to go out through Finland, he did not forget the
boys he left behind. He carried their case to the British and Danish Red Cross and a weekly
allowance of 200 roubles found its way over the belligerent lines to Moscow and was given to
the boys, much to the grateful assistance of the starving allied prisoners of war.

But they became resourceful as all American soldiers seem to become, whether at Bakaritza,
Smolny, Archangel, Kholmogora, Moscow or wherenot, and they found ways of adding to their rations.
Imagine one of them lining up with the employees of a Bolo public soup kitchen and going through
ostensibly to do some work and playing now-you-see-it-now-you-don't-see-it with a dish of salt
or a head of cabbage or a loaf of bread or a chunk of sugar, or when on friendly terms with
the Bolshevik public employees volunteering to help do some work that led them to where a little
money would buy something on the side at inside employees' prices. Imagine them with their
little brass kettle, stewing it over their little Russian sheet-iron stove, stirring in their
birdseed substitute for rolled oats and potatoes and cabbage and perhaps a few shreds of as
clean a piece of meat as they could buy, on the sly. See the big wooden spoons travelling happily
from pot to lips and hear the chorus of Dobra, dobra.

They will not ever forget the English Red Cross woman who constantly looked out for the five
Americans, the thirty-five British and fifteen French prisoners, finding ways to get for them
occasional morsels of bacon and bread and small packages of tea and tobacco. On Easter day
she entertained them all in the old palace of Ivan the Terrible.

How good it was one day to meet an American woman who had eighteen years before married a Russian
in Chicago and come to Moscow to live. Her husband was a grain buyer for the Bolshevik government
but she was a hater of the Red Rule and gave the boys all the comfort she could, which was
little owing to the surveillance of the Red authorities.

And one day the sergeant met an American dentist who had for many years been the tooth mechanic
for the old Czar and his family. He fixed up a tooth as best he could for the American soldier.
The Reds had about stripped him but left him his tools and his shop so that he could serve
the Red rulers when their molars and canines needed attention.

The American boys gained the confidence of the Russians in Moscow just as they had always done
in North Russia. They were finally given permission to participate in the privileges of one
of the numerous clubs that the Red officials furnished up lavishly for themselves in the palatial
quarters of old Moscow. Here they could find literature and lectures and lounging room and
for a few roubles often gained a hot plate of good soup or a delicacy in the shape of a horse
steak. Of course the latter was always a little dubious to the American doughboy, for in walking
the street he too often saw the poor horse that dropped dead from starvation or overdriving,
approached by the butcher with the long knife. He merely raised the horse's tail, slashed around
the anal opening of the animal with his blade, then reached in his great arm and drew out the
entrails and cast them to one side for the dogs to growl and fight over. Later would come the
sleigh with axes and other knives to cut up the frozen carcass. On May day the boys nearly
lost their membership in the club, along with its soup and horse-steak privileges because they
would not march in the Red parade to the gaily decorated square to hear Lenin speak to his
subjects.

Was the Red government able to feed the people by commandeering, the food? No. At last the
peasants gained the sufferance of the Red rulers to traffic their foodstuffs on the streets
even as we have seen them with handfuls of vegetables on the market streets of Archangel. Prices
were out of sight. Under a shawl in a tiny box, an old peasant woman on Easter Day was offering
covertly a few eggs at two hundred roubles apiece.

Imagine the feelings of the boys when they walked about freely as they did, being dressed in
the regular Russian long coats and caps and being treated with courtesy by all Russians who
recognized them as Americans. Here they found themselves looking at the great hotel built on
American lines of architecture to please the eye and shelter the American travellers of the
olden times before the great war, a building now used by the Red Department of State. Here
they were examined by one of Tchicherin's men upon their arrival in the Red capital. Further
they could walk about the Kremlin, and visit a part of it on special occasions. They could
see the execution block and the huge space laid out by Ivan the Terrible, where thousands of
Russians bled this life away at the behest of a cruel government.

Or they could stand before the St. Saveur cathedral, a noble structure of solid marble with
glorious murals within to remind the Slavic people of their unconquerable resistance to the
great Napoleon and of his disastrous retreat from their beloved Moscow.

They cannot be blamed for coming out of Moscow convinced that the heart of the Slavic people
is not in this Bolshevik class hatred and class dictatorship stuff of Lenin and Trotsky; equally
convinced that the heart of the Russian people is not unfearful of the attempted return of
the old royalist bureaucrats to their baleful power, and convinced that the heart of this great,
courteous, patient, longsuffering Slavic people is groping for expression of self-government,
and that America is their ideal--a hazy ideal and one that they aspire toward only in general
outlines. Their ultimate self-government may not take the shape of American constitutionalism,
but Russian self-government must in time come out of the very wrack of foreign and internecine
war. And every American soldier who fought the Bolshevik Russian in arms or stood on the battle
line beside the Archangel Republic anti-Bolshevik Russian, might join these returned captives
from Bolshevikdom in wishing that there may soon come peace to that land, and that they may
develop self-government.

"We finally received our release. We had known of the liberation of Mr. Arnold and several
of our North Russian comrades and had been hoping for our turn to come. Mr. Frank Taylor, an
Associated Press correspondent, was helpful to us, declaring to the Bolshevik rulers that American
troops were withdrawing from Archangel. We had been faithful (sic) to the lectures, for a purpose
of dissimulation, and the Red fanatics really thought we were converted to the silly stuff
called bolshevism. It was plain to us also that they were playing for recognition of their
government by the United States. So we were given passports for Finland. The propaganda did
not deceive us.

"At the border a suspicious sailor on guard searched us. He turned many back to Petrograd.
The train pulled back carrying four hundred women and children and babies disappointed at the
very door to freedom, weeping, penniless, and starving, starting back into Russia all to suit
the whim of an ignorant under officer. Under the influence of flattery he softened toward us
and after robbing us of everything that had been provided us by our friends for the journey,
taking even the official papers sent by the Bolshevik government to our government which we
were to deliver to American representatives in Finland, he let us go.

"After he let us go we saw the soldiers in the house grabbing for the American money which
Mr. Taylor had given us. They had not thought it worth while to take the Russian roubles away
from us. Of course they were of no value to us in Finland. After a two kilometer walk, carrying
a sick English soldier with us, my three comrades and I reached the little bridge that gave
us our freedom."--By Sgt. Glenn W. Leitzell, Co. M, 339th Inf.

XXXVIII

MILITARY DECORATIONS

In the North Russian Expedition Fighting the Bolsheviki, American officers and men fought at
one time or another under the field standards of four nations, American, British, French, and
(North) Russian. And for their valor and greatly meritorious conduct, mostly over and beyond
the call of duty, many soldiers were highly commended by their field officers, American, French,
British, and Russian, in their reports to higher military authorities. Many, but not all, of
these officers and soldiers were later cited in orders and awarded decorations. Not every deserving
man received a citation. That is the luck of war.

It was a matter of keen regret to the British Commanding General that he was so hedged by orders
from England that his generous policy of awarding decorations to American soldiers was abruptly
ended in mid-winter when it became apparent that the United States would not continue the campaign
against the Bolsheviki but would withdraw American troops at the earliest possible moment.

The Russian military authorities were eager to show their appreciation of their American soldier
allies, but due to the indifference of Colonel Stewart to this not many soldiers were decorated
with Russian old army decorations.

The French decorations were probably the sincerest marks of esteem and admiration. They were
bestowed by French officers who were close to the doughboy in the field. And they are prized
as tokens of the affection of the French for Americans.

In speaking of American decorations we can hardly write without heat. The doughboy did not
get his just deserts. And he, without doubt, is correct in placing the blame for the neglect
at the door of the American commanding officer, Colonel Stewart. Men and officers who died
heroically up there in that North Russian campaign, and others who carry wound scars, and yet
others who performed valiantly in that desperate campaign, went unrewarded.

AMERICAN DECORATIONS

Distinguished Service Cross

BUGLER JAMES F. REVELS, "I" Co., 339th Inf., for gallantry in action, Sept. 16th, 1918, Obozerskaya,
Russia.

LIEUT. CHARLES F. CHAPPEL, "K" Co., 339th Inf., for gallantry in action, Sept. 27th, 1918,
Kodish, Russia. (Citation posthumous.)

SGT. MATHEW G. GRAHEK, "M" Co., 339th Inf., for gallantry in action, Sept. 29th, 1918, at Verst
458, Obozerskaya, Russia.

SGT. CORNELIUS T. MAHONEY, "K" Co., 339th Inf., for gallantry in action, October 16th, 1918,
Kodish, Russia.

CORP. ROBERT M. PRATT, "M" Co., 339th Inf., for gallantry in action, October 17th, 1918, Verst
445, near Emtsa, Russia.

PVT. VICTOR STIER, "A" Co., 339th Inf., for gallantry in action, January 19th, 1919, Ust Padenga,
Russia. (Citation posthumous.)

PVT. LAWRENCE B. KILROY, 337th Ambulance Company, for gallantry in action, Kodish, Russia.

PVT. HUBERT C. PAUL, 337th Ambulance Company, for gallantry in action, Kodish, Russia.

LIEUT. CLIFFORD F. PHILLIPS, "H" Co., 339th Inf., for gallantry in action, April 2nd, 1919,
near Bolsheozerki. (Citation posthumous.)

CORP. THEODORE SIELOFF, "I" Co., 339th Inf., for gallantry in action, Nov. 4th, 1918, at Verst
445, near Emtsa, Russia.

PVT. CLARENCE H. ZECH, 337th Ambulance Company, for gallantry in action, Kodish, Russia.

CORP. WILLIAM H. RUSSELL, "M" Co., 339th Inf., for gallantry in action, April 1st, 1919, near
Bolsheozerki, Russia. (Citation posthumous.)

PVT. CHESTER H. EVERHARD, 337th Ambulance Company, for gallantry in action, April 2nd, 1919,
near Bolsheozerki, Russia.

FRENCH DECORATIONS

Legion of Honor

MAJOR J. BROOKS NICHOLS, 339th Inf.

COL. GEORGE E. STEWART, 339th Inf.

Croix de Guerre

PVT. WALTER STREIT, "M" Co.

SGT. MATHEW G. GRAHEK, "M" Co.

PVT. JAMES DRISCOLL, "M.G." Co.

PVT. CLARENCE A. MILLER, "M" CO.

PVT. ARTHUR FRANK, "M.G." CO.

PVT. LEO R. ELLIS, "I" Co.

LIEUT. JAMES R. DONOVAN, "M" Co. 339th Inf.

SGT. FRANK GETZLOFF, "M" Co.

CORP. C. A. GROBBELL, "I" Co.

LIEUT. GEORGE W. STONER, "M" Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. JOHN H. ROMPINEN, "M" Co.

PVT. ALFRED FULLER, "K" Co.

MAJOR MICHAEL J. DONOGHUE, 339th Inf.

LIEUT. CLARENCE J. PRIMM, "M" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. DWIGHT FISTLER, "I" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. CHARLES HEBNER, "M" Co.

PVT. OTTO GEORGIA, "K" Co.

LIEUT. PERCIVAL L. SMITH, "Hq." Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. WESLEY K. WRIGHT, "M" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. GILBERT T. SHILLSON, "K" CO., 339th Inf.

SGT. HARVEY B. PETERSON, "M" Co.

PVT. HERMAN A. SODER, "I" Co.

PVT. THOMAS McELROY, "M" Co.

CORP. BENJAMIN JONDRO, "M" Co.

PVT. TOBIAS LePLANT, "K" Co.

PVT. FRANK RANK, "I" Co.

SGT. CHARLES V. RIHA, "M" Co.

LIEUT. ROBERT J. WIECZOREK, "M" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. WOODHULL SPITLER, "M.G." Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. JOHN P. GRAY, "M" CO.

CAPT. JOSEPH ROSENFELD, 337th Amb.

SGT. JACOB KANTROWITZ, "M" Co.

LIEUT. JOHN J. BAKER, "E" Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. CLYDE PETERSON, "K" Co.

CORP. THEODORE H. SIELOFF, "I" Co.

PVT. RAY LAWRENCE, "M" Co.

CAPT. HORATIO G. WINSLOW, "I" Co., 339th Inf.

CORP. JOHN C. SMOLINSKI, "I" Co.

PVT. JOHN KUKORIS, "I" Co.

LIEUT. LEWIS E. JAHNS, "K" Co., 339th Inf.

MAJOR J. BROOKS NICHOLS, 339th Inf., Commanding officer Allied troops, Railway Detachment.

PVT. SAMUEL H. DARRAH, "K" Co.

LIEUT. CHARLES B. RYAN, "K" Co., 339th Inf.

CORP. FRANK L. O'CONNOR, "M" Co.

MR. FRANK OLMSTEAD, Y. M. C. A.

PVT. OSCAR LIGHTER, "M" Co.

PVT. ALFRED STARIKOFF, "M" Co.

CORP. ROBERT M. PRATT, "M" Co.

PVT. ERNEST P. ROULEAU, "M" Co.

CAPT. JOEL R. MOORE, "M" Co., 339th Inf. (with silver star, divisional citation).

BRITISH DECORATIONS

Distinguished Service Order

MAJOR J. BROOKS NICHOLS, 339th Inf. Commanding officer American and Allied troops, Railway
Detachment, fall offensive and winter and spring defensive campaigns of Vologda Force.

MAJOR MICHAEL J. DONOGHUE, 339th Inf. Commanding officer American and Allied troops, Kodish
offensive in fall and winter defensive campaigns of the Seletskoe Detachment of Vologda Force.

CAPTAIN ROBERT P. BOYD, "B" CO., 339th Inf. Commanding officer American and Allied troops left
bank of Dvina, fall offensive and winter defensive campaigns of Dvina-Kotlas Force.

LIEUT.-COL. P. S. MORRIS, JR., 310th Engineers. Chief Engineer A. E. F., North Russia, during
fall offensive and winter and spring campaigns.

Military Cross

CAPT. OTTO A. ODJARD, Commanding Officer "A" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. ALBERT M. SMITH, "B" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. LAWRENCE P. KEITH, "M.G." Co. 339th Inf.

LIEUT. GORDON B. REESE, "I" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. HARRY S. STEELE, "C" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. W. C. GIFFELS, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

LIEUT. HARRY M. DENNIS, "B" Co. 339th Inf.

LIEUT. JOHN A. COMMONS, "K" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. H. D. McPHAIL, "A" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. CHARLES B. RYAN, "K" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. H. T. KETCHAM, "H" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. HARRY J. COSTELLO, "M.G." Co., 339th Inf. (received his medal from the hand of the Prince
of Wales, in Washington, D. C.)

MAJOR CLARE S. McARDLE, Commanding officer 1st Battalion 310th Engrs.

LIEUT. EDWIN J. STEPHENSON, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

LIEUT. B. A. BURNS, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

CAPT. W. O. AXTELL, "B" Co., 310th Engrs.

LIEUT. E. W. LEGIER, "C" Co., 310th Engrs.

Distinguished Conduct Medal

SGT. MATHEW G. GRAHEK, "M" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. F. W. WOLFE, "K" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. G. M. WALKER, "K" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. CHAS. J. HAYDEN, "I" Co.,   339th Inf.

CORP. J. C. DOWNS, "B" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. A. V. TIBBALS, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

CORP. GEORGE R. YOHE, Signal Platoon, "Hq." Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. WALTER A. SPRINGSTEEN, Signal Platoon, "Hq." Co., 339th Inf.

CORP. JAMES MORROW, "B" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. PETER CSATLOS, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

SGT. FLOYD A. WALLACE, "B" Co., 339th Inf.

Military Medal

SGT. CARL W. VENABLE, "L" Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. 1ST CLASS JAMES W. DRISCOLL, "M.G." Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. MICHAEL J. KENNEY, "K" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. E. J. HERMAN, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

CORP. J. S. MANDERFIELD, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

SGT. E. P. TROMBLEY, "A" Co., 339th Inf.

CORP. H. T. DANIELSON, "A" Co., 339th Inf.

CORP. J. FRANCZAC, "A" Co., 339th Inf.

BUGLER C. J. CAMPUS, "A" Co., 339th Inf.

MECH. A. J. HORN, "A" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. J. A. NEES, "A" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. ARNOLD W. NOLF, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

SGT. H. H. HAMILTON, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

PVT. BERGER W. BERGSTROM, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

PVT. RUSSELL F. McGUIRE, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

PVT. MICHAEL KOWALSKI, "H" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. E. W. PAUSCH, "C" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. JOHN BENSON, "C" Co., 310th Engrs.

SGT. SILVER K. PARISH, "B" Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. CHARLES BELL, "B" Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. JOSEPH EDYINSON, "B" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. L. E. STOVER, "B" Co., 310th Engrs.

CORP. W. C. BUTZ, "B" Co., 310th Engrs.

CORP. F. W. WILKIE, "K" Co., 339th Inf.

SGT. L. BARTELS, "K" Co., 339th Inf.

CORP. J. STEYSKAL, "K" Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. E. E. HELMAN, "K" Co., 339th Inf.

CORP. WILLIAM C. SHAUGHNESSEY, Signal Platoon, "Hq." Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. LOUIS L. HOPKINS, "Hq." Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. CHARLES E. GARRETT, "Hq." Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. GUY HINMAN, "Hq." Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. JAMES R. WAGGENER, "Hq." Co., 339th Inf.

PVT. CLARENCE A. MILLER, "M" Co., 339th Inf.

Meritorious Service Medal

SGT. EWALD T. BILLEAU

PVT. A. H. DITTBERNER

SGT. L. S. SCHNEIDER

SGT. DELBERT KRATZ

1ST. SGT. V. B. ROGERS

SGT. F. W. YATES

PVT. JERRY DAUBEK

CORP. A. N. ERICKSON

All of "A" Company, 310th Engineers

RUSSIAN DECORATIONS

St. Vladimir with Swords and Ribbons

REAR-ADMIRAL NEWTON A. McCULLY, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces.

MAJOR MICHAEL J. DONOGHUE, 339th Inf.

MAJOR J. BROOKS NICHOLS, 339th Inf.

COL. JAMES A. RUGGLES, Chief of American Military Mission, Military Attache to Embassy in Russia.

St. Anne With Swords

CAPT. JOEL R. MOORE, "M" Co., 339th Inf. Corps, 339th Inf.

LIEUT. W. C. GIFFELLS, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

LIEUT. E. W. LEGlER, "C" Co., 310th Engrs.

LIEUT. HARRY J. COSTELLO, "M.G." Co., 339th Inf.

CAPT. EUGENE PRINCE, Military Mission.

CAPT. HUGH S. MARTIN, Military Mission.

CAPT. J. A. HARTZFELD, Military Mission.

LIEUT. SERGIUS M. RIIS, Naval Attache to Embassy.

St. Stanislaus

CAPT. OTTO A. ODJARD, "A" Co., 339th Inf.

CAPT. ROBERT P. BOYD, "B" Co., 339th Inf.

MAJOR C. S. McARDLE, 310th Engrs.

CAPT. JOHN J. CONWAY, "G" Co., 339th Inf.

CAPT. WILLIAM KNIGHT, 310th Engrs.

LIEUT. ROBERT J. WIECZOREK, "M" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. DWIGHT FISTLER, "I" Co., 339th Inf.

LIEUT. B. A. BURNS, "A" Co., 310th Engrs.

LIEUT. A. W. KLIEFOTH, Military Mission.

LIEUT. M. B. ROGERS, Military Mission.

LIEUT. E. L. PACKER, Military Mission.

MAJOR D. O. LIVELY, American Red Cross.

CAPT. ROGER LEWIS, American Red Cross.

LIEUT. FRED MASON, American Red Cross.

LIEUT. GEORGE POLLATS, American Red Cross.

Cross of St. George

PVT. JOHN C. ADAMS

PVT. HARRISON BUSH

SGT. JOSEPH CURRY

PVT. FRED DeLANEY

1ST. SGT. W. DUNDON

BUGLER GEORGE GARTON

SGT. M. G. GRAHEK

PVT. GEO. HANRAHAN

SGT. CHAS. A. HEBNER

CORP. FRED HODGES

SGT. WM. R. HUSTON

SGT. JACOB KANTROWITZ

CORP. WM. NIEMAN

CORP. F. L. O'CONNOR

SGT. CHAS. W. PAGE

CORP. ROBT. M. PRATT

SGT. CHAS. V. RIHA

CORP. F. J. ROMANSKI

PVT. JOHN ROMPINEN

CORP. JOS. RYDUCHOWSKI

PVT. LEO SCHWABE

SGT. NORMAN ZAPFE

CORP. W. ZIMMERMAN

All of "M" Company, 339th Infantry.

Also MR. ERNEST RAND, and MR. FRANK OLMSTEAD, Y. M. C. A.

St. Anne Silver Medal

CORPORAL WALTER J. PICARD, "M" Company, 339th Inf.

St. Stanislaus Silver Medal

PVT. HAROLD METCALFE

PVT. ERNEST ROULEAU

PVT. FRANK STEPNAVSKI

COOK JOSEPH PAVLIN

COOK THEODORE ZECH

All of "M" Company, 339th Infantry

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Major Nichols in His Railway Detachment Field Headquarters

LANMAN Ready to Head Memorial Day Parade

LANMAN American Cemetery in Archangel

LANMAN Soldiers and Sailors of Six Nations Reverence Dead

U, S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Graves of First Three Americans Killed Fighting Bolsheviki--Obozerskaya,
Russia

LANMAN Sailors Parade on Memorial Day, Archangel

LANMAN Through Ice Floes in Arctic Homeward-Bound

ROZANSKEY Out of White Sea into Arctic Under Midnight Sun

XXXIX

HOMEWARD BOUND

"At The Earliest Possible Date"--Work Of Detroit's Own Welfare Association--"Getting The Troops
Out Of Russia"--We Assemble At Economia--Delousers And Ball Games--War Mascots--War Brides--Remarkable
Memorial Day Service In American Military Cemetery In Archangel--Tribute To Our Comrades Who
Could Not Go Home--Our Honored Dead.

"At the earliest possible moment" was the date set by the War Department for the withdrawal
of the troops from Russia. This was the promise made the American people during the ice-bound
winter, the promise made more particularly to appease vigorous protests of "The Detroit's Own
Welfare Association," which under the leadership of Mr. D. P. Stafford, had been untiring in
its efforts to move the hand of the War Department. Congressmen Doremus and Nichols and Townsend
had also been very active in "getting the Americans out of North Russia."

To us wearied veterans of that strange war, the nine months of guerrilla war, always strenuous
and at times taking on large proportions,--to us the "earliest possible moment" could not arrive
a minute too soon. We had fought a grim fight against terrible odds, we had toiled to make
the defenses more and more impregnable so that those who relieved us might not be handicapped
as we had been. We hated to be thought of as quitters, we suffered under the reproachful eyes
of newly arriving veteran Scots and Tommies who had been mendaciously deceived into thinking
we were quitters. We suffered from the thought that the distortion, exaggeration and partisan
outcry at home was making use of half-statements of returned comrades or half-statements from
uncensored letters, in such a way as to make us appear cry-babies and quitters. But down in
our hearts we were conscious that our record, our morale, our patriotism were sound. We believed
we were entitled to a speedy getaway for home. We accepted the promise with pleasure. We felt
friendly toward the Detroit's Own Welfare Association for its efforts and the efforts of others.
We could have wished that there had not been so much excitement of needless fears and incitement
of useless outcry. It cost us hard earned money to cable home assurances to our loved ones
that we were well and safe, so that they need not believe the wild tales that we were sleeping
in water forty below zero, or thawing out the cows before we milked them, or simply starving
to death. We could have wished that returned comrades who tried to tell the real facts and
allay needless fears--the actual facts were damnable enough--might not have been treated as
shamefully as some were by a populace fooled by a mixed propaganda that was a strange combination,
as it appears to us now, of earnest, sympathetic attempts to do something for "Detroit's Own,"
of bitter partisan invective, and of insidious pro-bolshevism.

For the cordial welcome home which was given to the Polar Bear veterans in July, our heartfelt
appreciation is due. Veterans who marched behind Major J. Brooks Nichols between solid crowds
of cheering home-folks on July 4th at Belle Isle could not help feeling that the city of Detroit
was proud of the record of the men who had weathered that awful campaign. It was a greeting
that we had not dreamed of those days away up there in the northland when we were watching
the snow and ice melt and waiting news of the approach of troopships.

At Economia we assembled for the purpose of preparing for our voyage home. To the silt-sawdust
island doughboys came from the various fronts. By rail from Obozerskaya and Bolsheozerki, by
barge from Beresnik and Kholmogori and Onega, came the veterans of this late side show of the
great world war. With them they had their mascots and their War Brides, their trophies and
curios, their hopeful good humor and healthy play spirit.

Who will not recall with pleasure the white canvass camp we made on the "policed-up" sawdust
field. Did soldiers ever police quite so willingly as they did there on the improvised baseball
diamond, where "M" Company won the championship and the duffle-bagful of roubles when the first
detachment of the 339th was delousing and turning over Russian equipment, and "F" Company won
the port belt and roubles in the series played while the remainder of the Polar Bears were
getting ready to sail.

Who will forget the day that the Cruiser "Des Moines" steamed in from the Arctic? Every doughboy
on the island rushed to the Dvina's edge. They stood in great silent throat-aching groups,
looking with blurred eyes at the colors that grandly flew to the breeze. And then as the jackies
gave them a cheer those olive drab boys answered till their throats were hoarse. That night
they sat long in their tents--it was not dusk even at midnight, and talked of home. A day or
so later they spied from the fire-house tower vessels that seemed to be jammed in a polar ice
floe which a north wind crowded into the throat of the White Sea. Then to our joy a day or
two later came the three transports, the long deferred hope of a homeward voyage.

Everyone was merry those days. Even the daily practice march with full-pack ordered by Colonel
Stewart, five miles round and round on the rough board walks of the sawdust port, was taken
with good humor. Preparations for departure included arrangements for carrying away our brides
and mascots.

Here and there in the Economia embarkation camp those days and nightless nights in early June
many a secret conclave of doughboys was held to devise ways and means of getting their Russian
mascots aboard ship. Of these boys and youths they had become fond. They wanted to see them
in "civvies" in America and the mascots were anxiously waiting the outcome at the gangplank.

At Chamova one winter night a little twelve-year old Russian boy wandered into the "B" Company
cook's quarters where he was fed and given a blanket to sleep on. Welz, the cook, mothered
him and taught him to open bully cans and speak Amerikanski. This incident had its counterpart
everywhere. At Obozerskaya "M" Company picked up a boy whose father and mother had been carried
off by the Bolsheviks. He and his pony and water-barrel cart became part of the company. At
Pinega the "G" Company boys adopted a former Russian Army youth who for weeks was the only
man who could handle their single Colt machine gun. In trying to get him on board the "Von
Stenben" in Brest--it had been simple in Economia--they got their commanding officer into trouble.
Lt. Birkett was arrested, compelled to remain at Brest but later released and permitted to
bring the youth to America with him where he lives in Wisconsin. And out on a ranch in Wyoming
a Russian boy who unofficially enlisted with the American doughboys to fight for his Archangel
state is now learning to ride the American range with Lt. Smith. Major Donoghue's "little sergeant"
is in America too and goes to school and his Massachusetts school teacher calls him Michael
Donoghue. And others came too.

In marked contrast to these passengers who came with the veterans from North Russia via Brest,
which they remember for its Bokoo Eats and its lightning equipment-exchange mill, is the story
of one of the fifty general prisoners whom they guarded on the "Von Steuben." One of them was
a bad man, since become notorious. He was missing as the ship dropped anchor that night in
the dark harbor. It was feared by the "second looie" and worried old sergeant that the man
was trying to make an escape. When they found him feigning slumber under a life boat on a forbidden
deck they chose opposite sides of the life boat and kicked him fervently, first from one side
then the other till he was submissive. The name of the man at that time meant little to them--it
was Lt. Smith. But a few days afterward they could have kicked themselves for letting Smith
off so easy, for the press was full of the stories of the brutalities of "Hardboiled" Smith.
Lt. Wright and Sergeant Gray are not yearning to do many events of the Russian campaign over
but they would like to have that little event of the homeward bound voyage to do over so they
could give complete justice to "Hardboiled" Smith.

In contrast with the stories of brutal prison camps of the World War we like to think of our
buddies making their best of hardships and trials in North Russia. We have asked two well-known
members of the expedition to contribute reminiscences printed below.

"As ithers see us" is here shown by extract from a letter by a Red Cross man who saw doughboys
as even our Colonel commanding did not see. This Red Cross officer, Major Williams, of Baltimore,
saw doughboys on every front and sector of the far-extended battle and blockhouse line. He
may speak with ample knowledge of conditions. In part he writes:

"Americans, as a rule, are more popular in Russia than any other nationality. The American
soldier in North Russia by his sympathetic treatment of the villagers, his ability to mix and
mingle in a homey fashion with the Russian peasants in their family life and daily toil, and
particularly the American soldier's love of the little Russian children, and the astonishing
affection displayed by Russian children toward the Americans furnishes one of the most illuminating
examples of what was and may be accomplished through measures of peaceful intercourse. The
American soldier demonstrated in North Russia that he is a born mixer.

"I could write a book, giving concrete examples coming under my observation, from voluminous
notes in my possession. As I dictate this, there is a vision of an American soldier who stopped
by my sled, at some remote village in a trackless forest, and urged me to visit with him a
starving family. This soldier, from his own rations, was helping to feed thirteen Russians,
and his joy was as great as theirs when the Red Cross came to their relief."

The next contribution is from the pen of a man who, born in Kiev, Russia, had in youth seen
the Czar's old army, who had served years in the U. S. army after coming to America, who was
one of the finest soldiers and best known men in the North Russian expedition.

"It is almost an axiom with the regular army of our own country and those of foreign nations,
that soldier and discipline are synonymous. Meaning thereby the blind discipline of the Prussian
type.

"That such an axiom is entirely wrong has been shown us by the National Army. No one will affirm
that the new-born army was a model to pass inspection even before our own High Moguls of the
regular army. And yet, what splendid success has that sneered at, 'undisciplined,' army achieved.

"And where is the cause of its success? The 'Uneducatedness' in the sense of the regular army.
The American citizen in a soldier uniform acted like a free human being, possessing initiative,
self-reliance, and confidence, which qualities are entirely subdued by the so called education
of a soldier. It is not the proper salute or clicking of the heels that makes the good soldier,
but the spirit of the man and his character. And these latter qualities has possessed our national
army. Fresh from civilian life with all the liberty-loving tendencies, our boys have thrown
themselves into the fight on their own accord, once they realized the necessity of it. The
whip of discipline could never accomplish so much as the conscience of necessity. And that
is what the national army possessed. And that is the cause of its success. And therefore I love it.

"So long as the United States remains a free country, there is no danger for the American people.
That spirit which has manifested itself in the National Army is capable to accomplish everything.
It is the free institutions of the country that brought us victory, not the so called 'education'
gotten in the barracks.

"I admired the national army man in fight, because I loved him as a citizen. And unless he
changes as a citizen, he will not change as a fighter. To me the citizen and soldier are synonymous.
A good citizen makes a good soldier, and vice versa. Let the American citizen remain as free-loving
and self-reliant as he is now, and he will make one of the best soldiers in the world. Let
him lose that freedom loving spirit, and he will have to be Prussianized.

"I have my greatest respect for the national army man, because I have
seen him at his best. In the moments of gravest danger he has exhibited
that courage which is only inborn in a free man. And when I saw that
courage, I said, He does not need any 'education.' Let him remain a free
man, and God help those who will try to take away his freedom."
                                       SGT. J. KANT, Co. "M" 339th Inf.

From distant Morjagorskaya, hundreds of versts, walked a bright-eyed Slavic village school
teacher to say goodbye to her doughboy friend who was soon to sail for home. But to her great
joy and reward, Nina Rozova found that her lover, George Geren, of Detroit, had found a way
to make her his wife at once. One certain sympathetic American Consul, Mr. Shelby Strother,
had told George he would help him get his bride to America if he wanted to marry the pretty
teacher.

Blessings on that warm-hearted Consul. He helped eight of the boys to bring away their brides.
In this volume is a picture of a doughboy-barishna wedding party, Joe Chinzi and Elena Farizy.
On a boat from Brest to Hoboken, among one hundred sixty-seven war brides from France, Belgium,
England and Russia, Elena was voted third highest in the judges' beauty list. And John Karouch
saw his Russian bride, Alexandra Kadrina, take the first beauty prize. The writer well remembers
the beautiful young Russian woman of Archangel who wore mourning for an American corporal and
went to see her former lover's comrades go away on the tug for the last time. They had been
to the cemetery and they looked respectfully and affectionately at her for they knew it was
her hand that had made the corporal's grave there in the American cemetery in Archangel the
one most marked by evidences of loving care.

One of the last duties of the veterans of this campaign was the paying of honors to their dead
comrades in the American cemetery which Ambassador Francis had purchased for our dead. This
was without doubt the most remarkable Memorial Day service in American history. From The American
Sentinel is taken the following account:

"American Memorial Day was celebrated at Archangel yesterday. Headed by the American Band,
a company of American troops, and detachments of the U. S. Navy, Russian troops, Russian Navy,
British troops, British Navy, French troops, French Navy, Italian and Polish troops, formed
in parade at Sabornaya at ten o'clock in the morning and marched to the cemetery.

"Here a short memorial service was held. Brief addresses were delivered by General Richardson,
General Miller, Charge D'Affaires Poole, and General Ironside.

"In his introductory address General Richardson said:

"'Fellow Soldiers of America and Allied Nations: We are assembled here on the soil of a great
Ally and a traditional friend of our country, to do what honor we may to the memory of America's
dead here buried, who responded to their country's call in the time of her need and have laid
down their lives in her defense. Throughout the world wherever may be found American soldiers
or civilians, are gathered others today for the fulfillment of this sacred and loving duty.
I ask you to permit your thought to dwell at this time with deep reverence upon the fact that
no higher honor can come to a soldier than belongs to those who have made this supreme sacrifice,
and whose bodies lie here before us, but whose spirits, we trust, are with us.'

"Before introducing General Miller, General Richardson thanked the Allied representatives for
their participation in the celebration of Memorial Day.

"Mr. Poole said:

"'This day was first instituted in memory of those who fell in the American Civil War. It became
the custom to place flowers on the graves of soldiers and strew flowers on the water in memory
of the sailor dead, marking in this way one day in each year when the survivors of the war
might join with a later generation to revere the memory of those who had made for the common
good the supreme sacrifice of life. For Americans it is an impressive thought that we are renewing
this consecration today in Russia, in the midst of a civic struggle which recalls the deep
trials of our own past and which is, moreover, inextricably bound up with the World War which
has been our common burden.

"'This war, which was begun to put down imperial aggression upon the political liberties, of
certain peoples, has evolved into a profound social upheaval, touching the most remote countries.
We cannot yet see definitely what the results of its later developments will be, but already
there lies before forward looking men the bright prospect of peace and justice and liberty
throughout the world such as we recently dared hope for only within the narrow confines of
particular countries. To the soldiers of the great war--inspired from the outset by a dim foresight
of this stupendous result--we now pay honor; and in particular, to the dead whose graves are
before us.

"'These men, like their comrades elsewhere in the most endless line of battle, have struck
their blow against the common enemy. They have had the added privilege of assisting in the
most tragic, and at the same time the most hopeful, upheaval for which the war has been the
occasion. Autocracy in Russia is gone. A new democracy is in the struggle of its birth. The
graves before us are tangible evidence of the deep and sympathetic concern of the older democracies.
These men have given their lives to help Russia. They have labored in an enterprise which is
a forecast of a new order in the world's affairs and have made of it a prophecy of success.
Here within this restricted northern area there has been an acid test of the practicability
of co-operation among nations for the attainment of common ends. Nowhere could material and
moral conditions have been more difficult than we have seen them these past months; under no
circumstances could differences in national temperament or the frailties and shortcomings of
individuals be brought into stronger relief. Yet the winter of our initial difficulties is
given way to a summer of maturing success. Co-operation begun in the most haphazard fashion
has developed after a few months of mutual adjustment into concerted and harmonious action.
It seems to me that herein lies striking proof of the generous spirit of modern international
intercourse and proof of the most practical kind that, as nations succeed to doing away with
war, they will be able to apply the energies thus released to common action in the beneficent
field of world wide social and political betterment.  If this ideal is to be measurably attained,
as I believe it is, these men have indeed made their sacrifice to a great cause. They have
given their lives to the progress of civilization and their memory shall be cherished as long
as civilization lasts.'

"The Northern Morning, a Russian daily of Archangel, reported on the Memorial Day Exercises
as follows:

"'In memory of the fallen during the Civil War in America, on the initiative of President Lincoln,
the 30th of May was fixed as a day to remember the fallen heroes. In this year our American
friends have to pass this day far from their country, America, in our cold northland, between
the graves of those who are dear not only to our friends, Allies, but also to us Russians;
the sacred graves beneath which are concealed those who, far from their own country, gave away
their lives to save us. These are now sacred and dear places, and the day of the thirtieth
of May as a day of memorial to them will always be to us a day of mourning. This day will not
be forgotten in the Russian soul. It has to be kept in memory as long as the name of Russian
manhood exists.

"'After the speeches a military salute was fired. A heart-breaking call of the trumpet over
the graves of the fallen sounded the mourning notes. Those who attended the meeting will never
forget this moment of the bugle call. The signal as it broke forth filled the air with sorrowness
and grief, as if it called the whole world to bow before those who, loving their neighbors,
without hesitation gave their lives away for the sacred cause of humanity.'

"Honor be to the fallen: blessings and eternal rest to those protectors of humanity who gave
their lives away for the achievement of justice and right. Sleep quietly now, sons of liberty
and light. You won before the world never-fading honor and eternal glory."

And so at last came the day to sail. We were going out. No Americans were coming to take our
place. We were going to leave the "show" in the hands of the British--who themselves were to
give it up before fall. The derided Bolshevik bands of brigands whom we had set out to chase
to Vologda and Kotlas, had developed into a well-disciplined, well-equipped fighting organization
that responded to the will of Leon Trotsky. Although we had seen an Archangel State military
force also develop behind our lines and come on to the active fighting sectors, we knew that
Archangel was in desperate danger from the Bolshevik Northern Army of Red soldiers. They were
out there just beyond the fringe of the forest only waiting, perhaps, for us to start home.

We must admit that when we thought of those wound-chevroned Scots who had remained on the lines
with the new Archangel troops of uncertain morale and recalled the looks in their eyes, we
sensed a trace of bitter in our cup of joy. Why if the job had been worth doing at all had
it not been worth while for our country to do it wholeheartedly with adequate force and with
determination to see it through to the desired end. We thought of the many officers and men
who had given their lives in this now abandoned cause. And again arose the old question persistent,
demanding an answer: Why had we come at all? Was it just one of those blunders military-political
that are bound to happen in every great war? The thought troubled us even as we embarked for home.

That night scene with the lowering sun near midnight gleaming gold upon the forest-shaded stretches
of the Dvina River and casting its mellow, melancholy light upon the wrecked church of a village,
is an ineffaceable picture of North Russia. For this is our Russia--a church; a little cluster
of log houses, encompassed by unending forests of moaning spruce and pine; low brooding, sorrowful
skies; and over all oppressive stillness, sad, profound, mysterious, yet strangely lovable
to our memory.

Near the shell-gashed and mutilated church are two rows of unadorned wooden crosses, simple
memorials of a soldier burial ground. Come vividly back into the scene the winter funerals
in that yard of our buddies, brave men who, loving life, had been laid away there, having died
soldier-like for a cause they had only dimly understood. And the crosses now rise up, mute,
eloquent testimony to the cost of this strange, inexplicable war of North Russia.

We cast off from the dirty quay and steamed out to sea. On the deck was many a reminiscent
one who looked back bare-headed on the paling shores, in his heart a tribute to those who,
in the battle field's burial spot or in the little Russian churchyards stayed behind while
we departed homeward bound.

This closes our narrative. It is imperfectly told. We could wish we had time to add another
volume of anecdotes and stories of heroic deeds. For errors and omissions we beg the indulgence
of our comrades. We trust that the main facts have been clearly told. Here by way of further
dedication of this book to our honored dead, whose names appear at the head of our lengthy
casualty list of five hundred sixty-three, let us add a few simple verses of sentiment, the
first two of which were written by "Dad" Hillman and the others added on by one of the writers.

THE HONOR ROLL

of the

AMERICAN EXPEDITION WHO FOUGHT AGAINST THE BOLSHEVIKI IN NORTH RUSSIA

1918-1919

IN RUSSIA's FIELDS (After Flanders Fields)

In Russia's fields no poppies grow There are no crosses row on row To mark the places where
we lie, No larks so gayly singing fly As in the fields of Flanders.

We are the dead. Not long ag'o We fought beside you in the snow And gave our lives, and here
we lie Though scarcely knowing reason why Like those who died in Flanders.

At Ust Padenga where we fell On Railroad, Kodish, shot and shell We faced, from just as fierce
a foe As those who sleep where poppies grow, Our comrades brave in Flanders.

In Toulgas woods we scattered sleep, Chekuevo and Kitsa's tangles creep Across our lonely graves.
At night The doleful screech owl's dismal flight Heart-breaking screams in Russia.

Near railroad bridge at Four-five-eight, And Chamova's woods, our bitter fate We met. We fell
before the Reds Where wolves now howl above our heads In far off lonely Russia.

In Shegovari's desperate fight, Vistavka's siege and Seltso's night, In Bolsheozerki's hemmed-in
wood, In Karpogor, till death we stood Like they who died in Flanders.

And some in Archangel are laid 'Neath rows of crosses Russian-made With marker of the Stars
and Stripes Not minding bugle, drum or pipes We sleep, the brave, in Russia.

And comrades as you gather far away In God's own land on some bright day And think of us who
died and rest Just tell our folks we did our best In far off fields of Russia.

Our Roll of Honored Dead

KILLED IN ACTION

AGNEW, JOHN, Sgt. Co. K Sept. 27, 1918, Belfast, Ireland

ANDERSON, JAKE C., Pvt. 1st class Co. B Nov. 11,1918, Cave City, Ky.

ANGOVE, JOHN P., Pvt. Co. B Nov. 13, 1918, Painesdale, Mich.

ASSIRE, MYRON J., Co. A, 310th Engrs Oct. 26,1918

AUSLANDER, FLOYD R., Pvt. Co. H April 2, 1919, Decker, Mich.

AUSTIN, FLOYD E., Pvt. 1st class Co. E Dec. 30, 1918, Scottsburg, Ind.

AVERY, HARLEY, Pvt. Co. H Oct. 1, 1918, Lexington, Mich.

BALLARD, CLIFFORD B., Second Lt. M. G. Co Feb. 7, 1919, Cambridge, Mass.

BERGER, CARL G., Wag. Sup. Co Jan. 19, 1919, Detroit.

BERGER, CARL H., Second Lt. Co. E Dec. 31, 1918, Mayville, Wis.

BORESON, JOHN, Pvt. Co. H, Oct. 1, 1918, Stephenson, Mich.

BOSEL, JOHN J., Corp. Co. C Nov. 29, 1918, Detroit

CHAPPEL, CHARLES F., First Lt. Co. K Sept. 27, 1918, Toledo, Ohio

CHEENEY, Roy D., Corp. Co. C. Nov. 29, 1918, Pueblo, Colo.

CHRISTIAN, ARTHUR, Pvt. Co. L. Oct. 14, 1918, Atlanta, Mich.

CLARK, JOSHUA A., Pvt. Co. C. Feb. 4, 1919, Woodville, Mich.

CLEMENS, RAYMOND C., Pvt. Co. C. Nov. 29, 1918, St. Joseph, Mich.

COLE, ELMER B., Pvt. Co. A Jan. 23, 1919, Hamersluya, Pa.

CONRAD, REX H., Corp. Co. F Mar. 26, 1919, Ponca, Mich.

CROOK, ALVA, Pvt. Co. M April 1, 1919, Lakeview, Mich.

CRONIN, LOUIS, Pvt. Co. K Oct. 13, 1918, Flushing, Mich.

CROWE, BERNARD C., Sgt. Co. K Dec. 30, 1918, Detroit

CUFF, FRANCIS W., First Lt. Co. C Nov. 29, 1918, Rio, Wis.

DeAMICIS, GUISEPPE, Corp. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Detroit

DIAL, CHARLES O., Mech. Co. M Mar. 31, 1919, Carlisle, Ind.

DYMENT, SCHLIOMA, Pvt. Co. M Sept. 30, 1918, Detroit

ELLIS, LEO R, Pvt. Co. I. Nov. 4,1918, Chicago, Ill.

FOLEY, MORRIS J., Corp. Co. B Sept. 20, 1918, Detroit

FULLER, ALFRED W., Pvt. 1st class Co. K Dec. 30, 1918, Trenton, Mich.

GASPER, LEO, Pvt. Co. B Nov. 11, 1918, Chesaning, Mich.

GAUCH, CHARLES D., Pvt. Hq. Co Oct. 1, 1918, Kearney, N. J.

GOTTSCHALK, MILTON E., Corp. Co. A Jan. 22, 1919, Detroit

GRAHAM, CLAUS, Pvt. Co. H Oct. 1, 1918, Toledo, Ohio

HESTER, HARLEY H., Corp. M. G. Co Sept. 27, 1918, Cave City, Ky.

KENNEY, MICHAEL J., Sgt. Co. K Dec. 30, 1918, Detroit

KENNY, BERNARD F., Corp. Co. A Mar. 9, 1919, Hemlock, Mich.

KISSICK, THURMAN L., Pvt. Co. C Nov. 29, 1918, Ringos Mill, Ky.

KREIZINGER, EDWARD, Corp. Co. L. Sept. 27, 1918, Detroit

KUDZBA, PETER, Pvt. CO. B Sept. 20, 1918, Chicago, Ill.

KWASNIEWSKI, IGNACY H., Mech. Co. I. Sept. 16, 1918, Detroit

LADOVICH, NIKODEM, Pvt. Co. C Feb. 4, 1919, Pittsburgh, Pa.

MALM, CLARENCE A., Pvt. 1st class Co. G Dec. 4, 1918, Battle Creek, Mich.

MARRIOTT, FRED R, Sgt. Co. B Nov. 12, 1918, Port Huron, Mich.

McCONVILL, EDWARD, Pvt. Co. H Mar. 23, 1919, Shawmut, Mass.

McLAUGHLIN, FRANK S., Pvt. Co. I Oct. 16, 1918, Elks Rapids, Mich.

MERRICK, WALTER A., Pvt. Co. M Oct. 14, 1918, Sandusky, Mich.

MERTENS, EDWARD L., Corp. Co. L Sept. 27, 1918, Detroit

MOORE, ALBERT E., Corp. Co. A Mar. 7, 1919, Detroit

MUELLER, FRANK J., Pvt. Co. E Dec. 30, 1918, Marshfield, Wis.

OZDARSKI, JOSEPH S., Pvt. Co. L. Oct. 14, 1918, Detroit

PATRICK, RALPH M., Pvt. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Long Lake, Mich.

PAWLAK, JOSEPH, Pvt. Co. B Mar. 1, 1919, Detroit

PILARSKI, ALEK, Pvt. Co. B Nov. 11, 1918, Detroit

PITTS, JAY B., Pvt. Co. G Dec. 4, 1918, Kalamazoo, Mich.

RAMOTOWSKE, JOSEF, Pvt. 1st class Co. H Mar. 22, 1919, Detroit

REDMOND, NATHAN L., Corp. Co. H Mar. 19, 1919, Detroit

RICHARDSON, EUGENE E., Pvt. Co. H Oct. 1, 1918, Detroit

RICHEY, AUGUST K, Corp. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Dowagiac, Mich.

RITCHER, EDWARD, Pvt. Co. H Oct. 1, 1918, Mishawaka, Ind.

ROBBINS, DANIEL, Pvt. Co. B Mar. 1, 1919, Blaine, Mich.

ROGERS, YATES K, Sgt. Co. A Jan. 22, 1919, Memphis, Tenn.

RUTH, FRANK J., Pvt. Co. B Mar. 1, 1919, Detroit

SAPP, FRANK E., Corp. Co. M April 1, 1919, Rodney, Mich.

SAVADA, JOHN, Corp. Co. B Nov. 13, 1918, Hamtramck, Mich.

SCHMANN, ADOLPH, Pvt. Co. C. Nov. 13, 1918, Milwaukee, Wis.

SCRUGGS, FRANK W., Pvt. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Bettelle, Ala.

SILKAITIS, FRANK, Pvt. Co. H Oct. 1, 1918, Chicago, III.

SMITH, WILBUR B., Sgt. Co. C. Jan. 20, 1919, Fort Williams, Canada

SOCZKOSKI, ANTHONY, Pvt. Co. I Sept. 16, 1918, Detroit

SOKOL, PHILIP, Pvt. Co. L. Sept. 16, 1913, Pittsburgh, Pa.

SPELCHER, ELMER E., Cook Co. C Feb. 4, 1919, Akron, Ohio

STALEY, GLENN P., Pvt. Co. K Sept. 17, 1918, Whitemore, Mich.

SWEET, EARL D., Pvt. Co. A Mar. 9, 1919, McGregor, Mich.

SYSKA, FRANK, Pvt. Co. D Jan. 23, 1919, Detroit

TAYLOR, OTTO V., Pvt. Co. K Oct. 16, 1918, Alexandria, Ind.

TRAMMELL, DAUSIE W., Pvt. Co. A Mar. 9, 1919, Clio, Ky.

VanDerMEER, JOHN, Pvt. Co. B Sept. 20, 1918, Kalamazoo, Mich

VanHERWYNEN, JOHN, Pvt. Co. D Sept. 20, 1918, Vriesland, Mich.

VOJTA, CHARLES J., Pvt. Co. K Sept. 27, 1918, Chicago, III.

WAGNER, HAROLD H., Pvt. 1st class Co. E. Dec. 30, 1918, Harlan, Mich.

WELSTEAD, WALTER J., Pvt. Co. A Mar. 9, 1919, Chicago, III.

WENGER, IRVIN, Pvt. Co. C Nov. 29, Grand Rapids, Mich.

ZAJACZKOWSKI, JOHN, Pvt. Co. B Nov. 12, 1918, Detroit

DEATH FROM OTHER CAUSES

BLOOM, ELMER, Sgt. Co. A., 310th Engrs. (drowned)   Oct. 8, 1918

CONNOR, LLOYD, Corp. Co. A., 310th Engrs. (drowned)   Oct. 8, 1918

DARGAN, ARTHUR, Pvt. Co. A., 310th Engrs. (drowned)   Oct. 8, 1918

HILL, C. B., Lt. Co. A., 310th Engrs. (drowned)   Oct. 8, 1918

LOVELL, ALBERT W., Pvt. Hq. Co Aug. 10, 1918 (drowned), England

MARCHLEWSKI, JOSEPH D., Pvt. Co. G Oct. 28, 1918 (accident), Alpena, Mich.

MARTIN, J. C., Corp. Co. E. Oct. 21, 1918 (accidentally shot), Portland, Mich.

RUSSELL, WM. H., Corp. Co. M April 19, 1919 (accident by grenade), Detroit

SAWICKIS, FRANK K, Pvt. Co. I April 29,1919 (Bolo grenade), Racine, Wis.

SICKLES, FLOYD A., Pvt. Co. M Dec. 6,1918 (accident), Deckerville, Mich.

SZYMANSKI, LOUIS A., Pvt. Co. C Nov. 27, 1918 (accidentally shot), Detroit

WILSON, DALE, Pvt. 1st class Co. B April 3, 1919, Alexander, Mich.

WING, HOMER, Pvt. Co. A, 310th Engrs May 31,1919 (rly. accident), Detroit

YOUNG, EDWARD L., Sgt. Co. G Mar. 14, 1919 (suicide), Moosie, Pa.

FIGHTING THE BOLSHEVIKI

DIED OF WOUNDS RECEIVED IN ACTION

BALL, ELBERT, Pvt. 1st class Co. B Nov. 14, 1918, Henderson, Ky.

BOWMAN, WILLIAM H., Sgt. Co. B Mar. 1, 1919, Penn Laird, Va.

CLISH, FRANK, Pvt. Co. B Mar. 1, 1919, Baraga, Mich.

COLLINS, EDMUND R., First Lt. Co. H Mar. 24, 1919, Racine, Wis.

COOK, CLARENCE, Pvt. Co. A Feb. 20, 1919, Stilton, Kan.

DETZLER, ALLICK F., Pvt. Co. B Nov. 15, 1918, Prescott, Mich.

DUNAETZ, ISIADOR, Pvt. Co. C Jan. 31, 1919, Sodus, Mich.

ETTER, FRANK M., Sgt. Co. C Feb. 6, 1919, Marion, Ind.

FRANKLIN, WALTER E., Pvt. Co. E Dec. 31, 1918, Bellevue, Mich.

GRAY, ALSON W., Corp. Co. K Nov. 8, 1918, South Boston, Va.

KOSLOUSKY, MATTIOS, Pvt. Co. H April 2, 1919, Chicago, Ill.

LEHMANN, WILLIAM J., Corp. Co. A Jan. 23, 1919, Danville, III.

LENCIONI, SEBASTIANO, Pvt. Co. A Jan. 22, 1919, Whitewater, Wis.

LYTTLE, ALFRED E., Corp. Co. A., 310th Engrs Oct. 31, 1918

MEISTER, EMANUEL A., Sgt. Co. C Sept. 27, 1918, Detroit

MORRIS, JOHN H. W., Pvt. Co. B, 310th Engrs Oct. 18, 1918

MYLON, JAMES J., Corp. Co. E Dec. 31, 1918, Detroit

NIEMI, MATTIE I, Pvt. Co. M Sept. 30, 1918, Verona, Mich.

PETERSON, AUGUST B., Pvt. Co. H Mar. 22, 1919, Whitehall, Mich.

PHILLIPS, CLIFFORD F., First Lt. Co. H May 10,1919, Lincoln, Nebr.

POWERS, RALPH E., Lt. 337th Amb. Co Jan. 22, 1919, Detroit

ROSE, BENJAMIN, Pvt. Co. A Mar. 11, 1919, Packard, Ky.

SKOSELAS, ANDREW, Pvt. Co. C Feb. 4, 1919, Eastlake, Mich.

SMITH, GEORGE J., Pvt. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Yale, Mich.

STIER, VICTOR, Pvt. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Cincinnati, Ohio

TAMAS, STANLEY P., Pvt. Co. D Oct. 29, 1918, Manistee, Mich.

ZIEGENBEIN, WILLIAM J., Corp. Co. A, 310th Engrs Oct. 16, 1918

MISSING IN ACTION

BABINGER, WILLIAM R., Corp. Hq. Co Oct. 2, 1918, Detroit

CARTER, JAMES, Pvt. Hd. Co. Oct. 2, 1918, Cornwall, England

CARTER, WILLIAM J., Pvt. 1st class Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Detroit

COLLINS, EARL W., Corp. Co. H Mar. 18, 1919, Detroit

CWENK, JOSEPH, Pvt. 1st class Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Milan, Mich.

FRANK, ARTHUR, Pvt. M. G. Co Sept. 29, 1918, Detroit

GUTOWSKI, BOLESLAW, Pvt. Co. C Nov. 29, 1918, Wyandotte, Mich.

HODGE, ELMER W., Pvt. Co. C Nov. 29, 1918, Shelby, Mich.

HUTCHINSON, ALFRED G., Pvt. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Plainwell, Mich.

JENKS, STILLMAN V., Pvt. 1st class Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Shelby, Mich.

JONKER, NICHOLAS, Pvt. Co. C. Nov. 29, 1918, Grand Rapids, Mich.

KEEFE, THOMAS H., Pvt. Co. C Feb. 4, 1919, Chicago, Ill.

KIEFFER, SIMON P., Pvt. M. G. Co Sept. 29, 1918, Detroit

KOWALSKI, STANLEY, Pvt. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Lodz, Poland

KUSSRATH, CHARLES AUG., JR., Pvt. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Chicago, Ill.

KUROWSKI, MAX J., Pvt. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Grand Rapids, Mich.

MANNOR, JOHN T., Pvt. 1st class Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Menominee, Mich.

MARTIN, WILLIAM J., Pvt. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Detroit

McTAVISH, STEWART M., Pvt. 1st class Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Stratford, Can.

PEYTON, EDWARD W., Corp. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Richmond, Ky.

POTH, RUSSELL A., Pvt. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Brown City, Mich.

RAUSCHENBERGER, ALBERT, Corp. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Grand Rapids, Mich.

RETHERFORD, LINDSAY, Pvt. 1st class Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Hustonville, Ky.

RUSSELL, ARCHIE E., Pvt. 1st class Co. A Jan. 19. 1919, Hesperia. Mich.

SAJNAJ, LEO, Pvt. 1st class Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Chicago, Ill.

SCHROEDER, HERBERT A., Corp. Co. B Sept. 20, 1918, Detroit

SCOTT, PERRY C, Corp. Hq. Co Oct. 2, 1918, Detroit

WEITZEL, HENRY R., Pvt. Co. C Nov. 29, 1918. Bay City, Mich.

WILLIAMS, EDSON A., Pvt. Co. A Jan. 19, 1919, Minneapolis. Minn.

PRISONERS OF WAR

ALBERS, GEORGE, Pvt. 1st class Co. I Nov. 3, 1918, Muskegon, Mich.

FRUCCE, JOHN, Pvt. Co. H Mar. 22. 1919, Muskegon, Mich.

FULCHER, EARL W., Pvt. Co. H Mar. 22, 1919, Tyre, Mich.

HAURILIK, MIKE M., Pvt. Co. C Nov. 29, 1918, Detroit

HOGAN, FREEMAN, Pvt. Co. M Mar. 31, 1919, Detroit

HUSTON, WALTER L.. Pvt. Co. C. Nov. 29. 1918. Muskegon, Mich.

LAURSEN, JENS C. Mech. Co. M May 1, 1919. Marlette, Mich.

LEITZELL, GLENN W., Sgt. Co. M Mar. 31. 1919, Mifflinburg. Pa.

PRINCE, ARTHUR, Corp. Co. B Mar. 1. 1919, Onaway, Mich.

TRIPLETT, JOHNNIE, Pvt. Co. C Nov. 29, 1918, Lackay, Ky.

SCHEULKE, WILLIAM R. Pvt. Co. H Mar. 22, 1919, Stronach, Mich.

VANIS, ANTON J., Pvt. Co. D Jan. 23, 1919, Chicago, Ill.

DIED OF DISEASE

BAYER, ARTHUR, Pvt. Co. G Sept. 12, 1918, Kalamazoo, Mich.

BAYER, CHARLES, Pvt. Co. F Sept. 12, 1918, Detroit

BERRYHILL, CHESTER W., Pvt. Co. F Sept. 11, 1918, Midland, Mich.

RICKERT, ALBERT F., Pvt. Co. c. Sept. 5. 1918, Mt. Clemens, Mich.

BIGELOW, JOHN W., Pvt. Co. E Sept. 10. 1918, Copefish, Mich.

BRIEVE, JOSEPH, Pvt. Co. E Sept. 7. 1918, Holland, Mich.

BURDICK, ANDREW, Pvt. Co. B Sept. 19, 1918, Manitou Island, Mich.

BYLES, JAMES B., Wag. Sup. Co Feb. 21, 1919, Valdosta, Ga.

CANNIZZARO, RAYFIELD, Pvt. Co. K Sept. 13, 1918. Edmore, Mich.

CASEY, MARCUS T., Second Lt. Co. C Sept. 16. 1918, New Richmond, Wis.

CIESIELSKI, WALTER, Pvt. 1st class Co. E Feb. 27, 1919, Detroit

CLARK, CLYDE, Pvt. Co. L. Sept. 18, 1918, Lansing. Mich.

DUSABLOM, WILLIAM H., Pvt. Co. I Sept. 18, 1918, Trenton, Mich.

EASLEY, ALBERT H., Pvt. Co. L. Sept. 13, 1918, Kewadin, Mich.

FARRAND, RAY, Pvt. Co. I. Sept. 13, 1918, Armada, Mich.

FIELDS, CLARENCE, Pvt. Co. F Sept. 19, 1918. Bay City. Mich.

FINNEGAN, LEO, Pvt. Co. B Sept. 17, 1918, Grand Rapids, Mich.

GARIEPY, HENRY, Sergt. Co. B Sept. 10, 1918. Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.

GRESSER, JOSEPH A., Pvt. Co. C. Sept. 8, 1918. Wyandotte, Mich.

HENDY, ALFRED H., Pvt. Co. C. Sept. 23, 1918, Grosse Ile, Mich.

HENLEY, JOHN T., Pvt. Co. I. Sept. 11, 1918, Chicago. Ill.

HODGSON, FRED L., Pvt. Co. M Sept. 14. 1918, Cassopolis, Mich.

HUNT, BERT, Pvt. Co. D Sept. 16, 1918, Hudsonville, Mich.

JACKSON, JESSE C, Pvt. 1st class Hq. Co Sept. 15, 1918, Detroit

JORDAN, CARL B., Pvt. Co. B Sept. 10, 1918. Ferry, Mich.

KALASKA, JOSEPH. Pvt. Co. I Sept. 18, 1918, Trenton, Mich.

KEICZ, ANDRZEI, Pvt. Co. C Sept. 13, 1918, Detroit

KISTLER, HERBERT B., Pvt. Co. I Sept. 11, 1918, Lancaster Pa.

KROLL, JOHN, JR., Pvt. Co. D Sept. 10, 1918, Holland, Mich.

KUKLA, VALENTINE, Pvt. Co. K Sept. 12. 1918, Kawkawlin, Mich.

KULWICKI, ANDREW J., Pvt. Co. K Jan. 28, 1918. Milwaukee, Wis.

LANTER, MARION F., Pvt. Co. I April 26, 1919, Savoy, Ky.

LAUZON, HENRY, Pvt. Co. L Sept. 28, 1918, Pinconning. Mich.

LINK, STEPHEN J., First Lt. Hq. Co Sept. 20, 1918, Taylorville, Ill.

MALUSKY, JOSEPH, Pvt. Co. C Sept. 10, 1919, Fountain, Mich.

MAYBAUM, HAROLD, Pvt. Co. E Sept. 9, 1918, Ainsworth, Ind.

McDONALD, ANGUS, Pvt. Co. E Sept. 12, 1918, Marilla, Mich.

MEAD, WILLIAM C, Pvt. Co. B Sept. 14, 1918, Mayville, Mich.

MICHEL, LEWIS M., Pvt. Co. c. Sept. 10, 1918, Parnassus, Pa.

NERI, VINCENT, Bug. Co. C Sept. 11, 1918, Detroit

NICHOLLS, CHARLES B., Pvt. Co. B Sept. 12, 1918, Rose City, Mich.

NUNN, ARTHUR, Pvt. Co. M Sept. 13,1918. Croswell, Mich.

O'BRIEN, RAYMOND, Pvt. Hq. Co Sept. 12, 1918, Saginaw, Mich.

O'CONNOR, LAWRENCE S., Corp. Co. C Sept. 8, 1918, Lancaster, Ohio

PARROTT, JESSE F., Pvt. Co. K Sept. 25, 1918, Mt. Clemens, Mich.

PASSOW, FERDINAND, Pvt. Co. D Sept. 11. 1918, Mosinee, Wis.

PETRASKA, OSCAR H., Pvt. Co. K Sept. 10, 1918. Wyandotte, Mich.

PETULSKI, JOHN, Pvt. CO. K Sept. 15, 1918, Detroit

ROSE, FLOYD, Pvt. Co. I. Sept. 10, 1918. Vicksburg, Mich.

ROWE, EZRA T., Pvt. M. G. Co Sept. 16, 1918, Hart, Mich.

RYNBRANDT, RAYMOND R, Pvt. Co. D Sept. 11, 1918, Byron Center, Mich.

SCHEPEL, TIEMON, Pvt. Co. D Sept. 11, 1918, Holland, Mich.

SHAUGHNESSY, JOHN, Pvt. Hq. Co Sept. 15, 1918, Missoula, Mont.

SHINGLEDECKER, DWIGHT, Pvt. Co. A Sept. 11, 1918, Dowagiac, Mich.

STOCKEN, ORVILLE I., Pvt. Co. A Sept. 13, 1918, Battle Creek, Mich.

SURRAN, HARRY H., Pvt. Co. A Sept. 14, 1918, Culver, Ind.

TEGGUS, WILLIAM G., Corp. Hq. Co Sept. 11, 1918, Pontiac, Mich.

THOMPSON, HENRY, Pvt. Co. A Sept. 16, 1918, Elkhart, Ind.

VAN DEVENTER, GEORGE E., Pvt. Co. C Sept. 11, 1918, Rupert, Idaho

WADSWORTH, LAURENCE L., Pvt. Co. I Sept. 20, 1918, Aurora, Ind.

WALDEYER, NORBERT C, Pvt. Co. D Sept. 16, 1918, Detroit

WAPRZYCKI, SYLVESTER, Pvt. 337th Amb. Co Sept. 14. 1918

WEAVER, LEWIS T., Pvt. Co. A Sept. 15, 1918. Marlette, Mich.

WEESNER, CLIFFFORD E., Pvt. Co. F Sept. 11. 1918, Jackson, Mich.

WETERSHOF, JOHN T., Pvt. Co. B Sept. 11, 1918, Grand Rapids. Mich.

WHITFORD, JASON, Pvt. Co. C. Sept. 19, 1918, Whitemore, Mich.

WITT, LOUIS C, Pvt. Hq. Co Sept. 13. 1918, Detroit

WOOD, STEWART W., Corp. Co. C Sept. 7. 1918, Atlanta, Ga.

ZLOTCHA, MIKE, Pvt. Co. E Sept. 23, 1918. Hamtramck, Mich.