Then he set his helmet on his head, and put himself at the head of his army. First of all Rustem
began the attack, charging the center of the enemy's army. He directed his course straight
to the place where the King of Mazanderan stood, surrounded with his chiefs and a great host
of elephants. When the King saw the shine of his lance, he lost courage, and would have fled.
But Rustem, with a cry like a lion's roar, charged him, and struck him on the girdle with his
spear. The spear pierced the steel, and would have slain the King, but that by his magic art
he changed himself, before the eyes of all the Persian army, into a mass of rock. Rustem stood
astonished to see such a marvel.

When King Kaoüs came up with his warriors, he said to Rustem, "What is it? What ails you that
you tarry here, doing no thing?"

"My lord," answered Rustem, "I charged the King of Mazanderan, spear in hand; I struck him
on the girdle, but when I thought to see him fall from his saddle, he changed himself into
a rock before my eyes, and now he feels nothing that I can do."

Then King Kaoüs commanded that they should take up the rock and put it before his throne. But
when the strongest men in the army came to handle the rock, or sought to draw it with cords,
they could do nothing; it remained immovable. Rustem, however, without any one to help him,
lifted it from the earth, and carrying it into the camp, threw it down before the King's tent,
and said, "Give up these cowardly tricks and the art of magic, else I will break this rock
into pieces."

When the King of Mazanderan heard this, he made himself visible, black as a thunder-cloud,
with a helmet of steel upon his head and a coat of mail upon his breast. Rustem laughed, and
caught him by the hand, and brought him before the King.

"See," said he, "this lump of rock, who, for fear of the hatchet has given himself up to me!"

When Kaoüs looked at him and observed how savage of aspect he was, with the neck and tusks
of a wild boar, he saw that he was not worthy to sit upon a throne, and bade the executioner
take him away and cut him in pieces. This done, he sent to the enemies' camp, and commanded
that all the spoil, the King's throne, and his crown and girdle, the horses and the armor,
the swords and jewels, should be gathered together. Then he called up his army, and distributed
to them rewards in proportion to what they had done and suffered. After this he spent seven
days in prayer, humbling himself before God, and offering up thanksgiving. On the eighth day
he seated himself on his throne, and opened his treasures, and gave to all that had need. Thus
he spent another seven days. On the fifteenth day, he called for wine and cups of amber and
rubies, and sat for seven days on his throne, with the wine-cup in his hand.

He sent for Rustem, and said, "It is of your doing, by your strength and courage, that I have
recovered my throne."

Rustem answered, "A man must do his duty. As for the honors that you would give me, I owe them
all to Aulad, who has always guided me on the right way. He hopes to be made king of Mazanderan.
Let the King, therefore, if it please him, invest him with the crown."

And this the King did.

The next day Kaoüs and his army set out to return to the land of Persia. When he had reached
his palace, he seated himself upon his throne, and sending for Rustem, put him at his side.

Rustem said, "My lord, permit me to go back to the old man Zal, my father."

