Commercial Amusements; Moving Pictures.--A certain form of recreation may be secured through
amusements which involve mere passive participation upon the part of the spectators, as in
various entertainments, dramatics, etc. As long as those giving the entertainment are local
people, friends or relatives, the audience takes a more or less sympathetic part in the performance
and is not actuated solely by the desire to purchase pleasurable sensations as is the case
with commercial amusements. I mean by commercial amusements those which are operated solely
for profit, whose advantages the individual purchases for his own pleasure rather than with
any idea of participating in a group activity. Commercial amusements have their place and may
be of great benefit, but they are largely an individualistic form of enjoyment and tend to
make the spectator increasingly dependent upon passive pleasurable sensations, and do not have
the social value of those forms of play in which one actively participates as a member of a group.

Although commercial amusements have these limitations, yet they have very real values which
might be secured for many rural communities if they were operated on a coöperative basis by
the people themselves rather than merely for profit by an individual. Motion pictures are now
the most popular form of commercial amusement and have unlimited possibilities when operated
for the good of the community rather than for profit alone. It is now possible to secure relatively
cheap projection outfits and electric plants, so that many small communities are now operating
their own motion picture shows. In many places this is one of the leading attractions at the
community building and is a source of revenue for its maintenance. In such places the motion
picture entertainment is becoming a sort of family affair, and when it can be so operated as
to secure the attendance of the family as a group the objectionable features will soon disappear.
Indeed, there is a well-organized effort on the part of certain motion picture firms to supply
films for just this type of entertainments. Moreover, the picture show may possibly be supplemented
with other features which will make a more attractive evening's entertainment, especially in
small places where it is practicable to operate but one show during an evening. During the
war community singing was tried at the opening and between reels in many movie houses with
conspicuous success, and should be encouraged wherever suitable leadership can be secured.
The speeches of the "four-minute" men were also an innovation which might well be tried further
in a modified form. Would not a four-minute speech on some current topic by a live speaker,
given in an uncontroversial manner, be a welcome feature of the movie show between reels, and
an effective means of educating public opinion? The community orchestra or community band might
well receive encouragement and financial aid by occasional programs at the community movies.

