In consequence of what Mr. Hallam stated concerning these Letters of a Turkish Spy, I sent
a communication to the Gent. Mag., which appeared{13} in vol. xiv. N.S. 142., on the subject,
which gave rise to several interesting articles in the same and subsequent vol. from other
more able writers. To these I would refer Dr. Rimbault, and it will afford me much satisfaction
if he will aid in elucidating what still remains a vexata questio.

F.R.A.

Dr. Maginn's Miscellanies (Vol. i., p. 470.).--In reply to J.M.B., I beg to state that the
"Magazine Miscellanies" of Dr. Maginn were published in numbers, at 3d. each, by Dodsley and
Co., Crane Court, Fleet St. I have nine numbers of it, all that were published, I believe,
containing several tales, serious and humorous Poems, Irish Melodies, Maxims of Mr. O'Doherty,
Miscellaneous Papers, The Tobias Correspondence, a translation of Lucian's Timon, Shakspere
Papers on Sir John Falstaff Jaques, Romeo, Bottom the Weaver, Lady Macbeth, and Timon; a Translation
of the Batrachomyomachia, and three or four of the Homeric Ballads.

WILLIAM CARPENTER.

Adelphi.

As your correspondent J.M.B. appears to be inquiring into the earliest contributions of Dr.
Maginn to the periodical press in England, you may inform him that he communicated a great
number of papers, &c., to the Literary Gazette before he left Cork, and wrote articles in Blackwood's
Magazine. The former were his first appearances in print in England, though the Cork journals
published many of his productions whilst yet a mere boy.

TEUTHA.

Trianon (Vol. i., p. 439.).--The meaning of this word is "a pavilion," and was applied, doubtless,
to the elegant structures to which your correspondent refers, on account of the light and graceful
style of their architecture. J.K.R.W.

Lee Trianons.--I have always understood that these gardens, &c., took their name from the village
of Trianon, the site of which they occupy, and which village Louis XIV. purchased from the
monks of St. Geneviève.

AREDJID KOOEZ.

Pimlico (Vol. i. p. 383. and 474.).--Would it not be worth the while of some of your ingenious
correspondents to inquire whether the following extract may not give a clue to the origin of
this word?

In an enumeration of "strange birds" to be found in Barbadoes, there is mention of "the Egge
Bird, the Cahow, the Tropick Bird, the Pemlico which presageth storms." America painted to
the life. (The True History of the Spaniards' Proceedings in America, by Ferdinando Gorges,
Esq., Lond. 4to. 1659.)

BR.

The Arms of Godin.--My attention has been drawn to a Query from Mr. KERSLEY, in page 439. of
Vol. i., relative to the arms of Godin. I have seen these arms blazoned variously. Mr. Godin
Shiffner bears them quarterly with his own coat of Shiffner, and blazons them thus:--Party
per fess, azure and gules, a barr or; in chief, a dexter and sinister hand grasping a cup,
all proper.

I am inclined to think this is an innovation upon the original arms, as I have them painted
on an old piece of china azure, a cup or. They are here impaled with the arms of Du Fon, an
ancient French family that intermarried with the Godins.

In the Théâtre de la Noblesse de Brabant, I find that "François Godin, Secrétaire ordinaire
du Roy Philippe II., en grand conseil séant à Malines," was ennobled by letters patent, dated
Madrid, 7th January, 1589, and "port les armoiries suivantes, qui sont, un escu de sinople
à une coupe lasalade, ou couverture ouverte d'or; ledit escu sommé d'un heaume d'argent grillé
et liséré d'or; aux bourlet et hachements d'or et de sinople: cimier une coupe de l'escu."

This blazoning is corrected in the index, where the arms are stated to be "un escu de sinople
à la coupe couverte d'or."

In the Nobiliaire des Pays-Bas, I find that Daniel Godin, Seigneur de Beauvois, was enobled
by Philip IV. in 1623, and "les armes sont, de sinople à une coupe couverte d'or."

In 1642, "Jean-François Godin, Seigneur de Baumez, Baillé et haut Justicier de Reumes" (son
of François Godin, who was ennobled by Philip II.), obtained permission from Philip IV. to
alter his paternal coat, and to carry "un écu de sinople à trois coupes couvertes d'or; cet
écu timbré d'un casque d'argent, grillé, liséré, et couronné d'or, orné de ses lambrequins
d'or et de sinople, et au-dessus en cimier, une tête et col de licorne au naturel."

His son, Jaques-François Godin, appears afterwards to have obtained the title of Baron.

The earliest mention I can find of the Godin arms is in 1588, when Christopher Godin carried
"de sinople à une coupe couverte d'or." He was a son of Jacques Seigneur d'Aubrecicourt and
of Françoise Lettin, and brother to the first-named François Godin. There appears to have been
another brother, Jaques; and they were all three ennobled by Philip II., probably for their
public services, as Christopher was Conseiller et Receveur-général des Domaines et Finances
des Pays-Bas; Jacques, Conseiller et Maître de la Chambre des Comptes en Hollande; and François,
Secrétaire du Grand Conseil à Malines.

I am not aware what connection existed between these Godins and the family of that name in
Normandy (now extinct); but the cup in the arms, though borne differently, proves that they
were of the same race.

J.R.C.

May 23, 1850.

The Title of D.D.--The remarks of your correspondent "BROWN RAPPEE" (Vol. I. p. 438.){14} induced
me to turn to the List of the Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries, and I find it in my power
to exonerate the compiler of the list on one point from the carelessness he imputes. "BROWN
RAPPEE" says, "We see one or two D.D.'s deprived of their titles of 'Rev.'" I find but one
D.D. in that condition, and in that instance the list is correct, and the usual prefix would
have been an error; the gentleman in question not being in orders, although his services in
Biblical literature have been acknowledged with the degree of D.D. Your correspondent does
not seem to be aware that this doctorate is, like all others, an academical, and not a clerical,
distinction and that, although it is seldom dissociated from the clerical office in this country,
any lay scholar of adequate attainments in theology is competent to receive this distinction,
and any university to bestow it upon him.

EYE-SNUFF.

Emancipation of the Jews (Vol. i. p. 479.).--The following extract from Tovey's Anglia Judaica,
p. 259., may be acceptable in connection with this subject:--

    "As soon as King Charles was murther'd, the Jews petitioned the
    Council of War to endeavour a repeal of that act of parliament
    which had been made against them; promising, in return, to make
    them a present of five hundred thousand pounds: Provided that
    they could likewise procure the cathedral of St. Paul to be
    procured them for a synagogue, and the Bodleian Library at Oxford
    to begin their traffic with, which piece of service it seems was
    undertaken by those honest men, at the solicitation of Hugh
    Peters and Henry Masters, whom the Jews employed as their brokers
    but without any success."

