In this design we give a small Green House which has been erected in a substantial and permanent
manner. The Green House is quite small, being only 20 by 30 feet. It is intended to keep bedding
plants, Camellias, Oranges, and similar things, during the winter, and also to propagate such
plants as may be wanted for bedding purposes on a place of moderate dimensions. This house
runs east and west. Its position was determined partly by the nature of the ground, but mainly
by the propagating bed. Fig. 28 is the ground plan. The large compartment is nearly twenty
feet square. The potting-room, which is at the west end of the house, is eight by ten feet,
and is fitted up with desks, drawers, and other necessary conveniences. The furnace pit, at
the same end of the house, is eight by eight feet, and contains ample room for coal. The house
is heated by two four-inch pipes. The large compartment has a side table for plants. On the
north side of the house there is a propagating bed, the bottom heat for which is supplied by
a hot-air chamber. This hot-air chamber is formed by simply inclosing a portion of the iron
pipes. In the plan there is a large table in the centre of this compartment; but this was not
put in, the owner adopting the suggestion of setting his large plants on the floor of the house;
a very excellent plan in itself, but which was subsequently very much marred by filling in
the whole floor of the house to the depth of six inches with coarse pebbles, to the injury,
we think, of the subsequent well-being of the house. The idea was, an appearance of neatness,
the preservation of the tubs, and to prevent the roots from running through; but an inch of
nice gravel would have secured the first without the objections that lie against the thick
coat of pebbles, while the other objects will not be secured; for the tubs will rot, and the
roots will not thus be prevented from running through the pots. This object must be secured
by other means than pebbles. The pebbles are unpleasant to walk on, become heated, and dry
off the house too rapidly, to the manifest injury of the plants. We merely mention the subject,
that our readers may avoid a similar error, and save themselves the money thus needlessly spent.

Fig. 72 is a perspective view of the house. The west end is boarded and battened. This corresponds
with the general design of the house, and presents a neat finish. The sides, except the potting
room, are of glass, the sashes being about three feet high. Every other sash is hung at the
bottom, for the purpose of ventilation. The roof is a continuous glazed roof, and is quite
flat, which is a decided advantage to the plants within. There are no ventilators in the roof,
the top ventilation being effected by means of the sashes over the doors at each end, which
are hung at the bottom for this purpose, and afford abundant ventilation for a house the length
of this one. There is an ornamental crest along the ridge, and at each end a neat finial.

DESIGN No. 10.

Our next example is a Cold Grapery, erected at South Manchester, Connecticut.

Fig. 29 is the perspective view of the house, and Fig. 30 is a section. The house is twenty
feet wide and sixty feet long. In Fig. 30, a is a stone wall, with a drain under it. b is a
hollow brick wall. d, d, is the ground level of the house on the inside; the line below b is
the level on the outside, but the earth is embanked against the brick wall to within an inch
of the sill. A small house is shown at the north end which is used for tools, potting, &c.
The border is about three feet deep, and occupies the whole interior of the house. There is
no outside border. On the bottom is placed about one foot of "tussocks" from a neighboring
bog, which may in time decay. The border is made up pretty freely of muck, with the addition
of sand, loam, charcoal dust, bone dust, etc. There is a row of vines, two feet and a half
apart, at each side of the house, at d, d. There are two other rows at e, e. There are also
a few vines at c, and at the ends of the house. The rows at d, d, form fruiting canes half
way up the rafters; those at e, e, go to the roof with a naked trunk, and furnish fruiting
canes for the other half of the rafters. The fruiting canes are thus very short, and easily
managed. The house was planted in the month of April, with such grapes as Black Hamburgh, Victoria
Hamburgh, Wilmot's Hamburgh, Golden Hamburgh, Muscat Hamburgh, Chasselas Fontainebleau, Frontignans,
Muscat of Alexandria, Syrian, Esperione, Tokay, and some others. The plants were very small,
and the wire worm injured some of them so as to make it necessary to replant; but the growth
of those not injured was very good. A fine crop of Melons, Tomatoes, Strawberries, etc., was
taken from the house the first year. The second year a few bunches of grapes were gathered,
and every thing went on finely.

This is the third year in which the house has been in operation. Our last visit was in the
early part of August, 1863, when we counted 734 bunches of grapes, weighing from one to seven
pounds each, the Syrian being the grape which reached the last figure. Almost as many bunches
were thinned out. In some cases too many are left, but they look very fine. The Muscats are
extremely well set, and some of the bunches will weigh fully three pounds. The Black Hamburghs
look quite as well; but the finest show of fruit is on the Esperione. The large number of bunches
is owing to the manner of planting; so many could hardly be taken the third season from a house
planted in the ordinary way. The canes, it will be borne in mind, are now only fruited about
half their length.

The exposure of this house is a very bleak one, and the climate cold and fickle. In order to
provide against a late spring frost, a coil of one inch pipe was inclosed in brick work, with
a fire chamber under it. From this coil a single one inch pipe was carried around the house
next the side sashes. It is found to answer the purpose, having on one occasion kept the frost
out of the house, when the crop in the house of a neighbor was destroyed. In many places, some
resource of this kind is necessary, and a small boiler with a single pipe will in most cases
prove sufficient.

DESIGN No. 11.

The following illustration is of a Plant House attached to a dwelling, and is quite different
in its plan from those before given. It was designed and erected for J. C. Johnston, Esq.,
of Scarborough, N. Y.

It is built on the south side of the dwelling, and is entered from the parlor as well as from
the pleasure grounds. Fig. 32 is a perspective view, which gives the reader a good idea of
its general appearance, though we can not help saying that in this case, at least, the picture
does not flatter; the house looks finer on the ground than in the picture. The circular house
on the southeast corner is strictly an ornamental feature, and a very pretty one.

The interior arrangement is shown in the ground plan, Fig. 33. The house is divided into two
compartments, A and B. The last is intended for growing and propagating plants. The house is
heated by hot water pipes, the boiler being placed in the cellar of the dwelling, which is
entered by the steps, f; e is a propagating tank, fitted with sliding sashes. It is quite large
enough to propagate all the plants the owner will want; d, d, are beds about a foot deep, with
a moderate bottom heat, for plunging pots in when desired; w is the walk. This compartment
is to be used for bringing plants into bloom, after which they are to be taken to the show
room or conservatory, marked A in the plan. The arrangement of this compartment is such, that
all the plants in it may be seen from the parlor door or window, the steps leading to which
are marked b; a, d, d, are tables; c would make a pretty little fountain, but it is intended
at present to put it in the form of a rustic basket, and fill it with ornamental plants. The
effect can not be otherwise than good. Climbing plants of various kinds will be trained up
the mullions and rafters of the circular house, and allowed to hang in festoons from the roof.
When the house is filled with flowering and ornamental-leaved plants, with climbers dependent
from the roof, the effect will be charming.

DESIGN No. 12.

COLD GRAPERIES FOR CITY LOTS.

In this illustration is given three graperies, designed and constructed by us for Mr. John
H. Sherwood of this city, which are among the first, if not the first erected in New York,
as an elegant, substantial and attractive addition to three very superb palatial residences
on Murray Hill, near 5th Avenue. These latter are buildings, such as, in style and workmanship,
very few persons in this country, outside of New York, have seen, and such as but few of the
first class builders of New York are competent to erect.

Centrally located in the aristocratic portion of a city noted for its wealth, taste and influence,
these Graperies will be carefully watched as an index of what the future may do in the increased
demand for houses on city lots for Horticultural purposes.

A full sized lot in the city of New York is twenty-five feet wide by one hundred feet in depth.
The ground attached to each dwelling in this case is equal to two full sized lots, being twenty-five
feet wide and two hundred feet in depth. The dwellings front on Fortieth Street, behind which
are the yards, twenty by twenty-five feet; the Graperies, which are twenty-five feet by forty
feet; then the coach houses, which front on, and are entered from, Thirty-ninth Street, thus
using the whole space.

The graperies are intended to be used without heat; but whenever desirable, heating apparatus
can be easily introduced, and the grape season materially lengthened. For practical purposes
only, and on open grounds, it would, perhaps, have been better to have built the houses lower;
but as grapes are usually fruited next to the glass, the principal objection to high houses
for grape culture is the extra labor in getting up to the vines for pruning and training. These
houses are purposely built higher than is now usual, to give a finer effect from the drawing-room
windows, and to secure, as far as possible, the influence of the sun's rays.

By the use of glass houses on city lots, much enjoyment may be had by all who have a desire
to spend their time in growing fine fruits and flowers. Pot vines and trees condense a vineyard
and orchard into a wonderfully small space, and border vines yield a harvest of glorious fruit
that surprise all not accustomed to seeing and eating such luxuries. Our city lots, with rare
exceptions, are well adapted to the growth, under glass, of grapes and orchard fruit, and the
forcing of vegetables. There are many of them somewhat shaded during portions of the day, yet
the better protection is something of a compensation, and besides that, it is still an open
question whether sun-light is alone essential in perfecting fruit; daylight in many cases does
pretty well.

The failure to receive the sun's rays the entire day would not deter us one moment from the
erection of a horticultural building. Those who grow fruit where all conditions are most favorable
to success, do not enjoy the same pleasure nor attain the same skill as those who battle with
difficulties; success easily acquired has not the same value as success which is reached by
persistent effort against adverse circumstances.

Unlike the garden of a country gentleman that blossoms and fruits and passes away in a season,
the horticultural building properly heated is a perpetual pleasure, a garden the year round;
vegetables and fruit and flowers follow each other without intermission.

Very much is due to the foresight and energy of Mr. Sherwood, in inaugurating the introduction
of horticultural structures of this class in New York. Few gentlemen of wealth have had the
same opportunity, and few less would have the courage to take the first bold step in this matter.
It cannot, however, by horticulturists, be looked upon as an experiment, however much those
inexperienced in such matters may be disposed to criticise.

We are sure that Mr. Sherwood has done something that will advance the cause of Horticulture,
and equally sure that he will be successful in the result. We shall feel much interested in
his progress.

DESIGN No. 13.

In our present illustration we have an example of what may be done with a wall. It was necessary,
for certain purposes, to cut away an embankment, and build a sustaining wall. After this had
been done, we were asked if the wall could not be devoted to some useful purpose, and it was
determined to build a lean-to grapery against it. The chief difficulty in the way was the wet
and springy nature of the ground at the level marked water line in Fig. 38. It was found, however,
that it could be drained; but at certain seasons of the year surface water would accumulate
from the overflow of a milldam. But there is generally some way to overcome difficulties. In
this case, the border was placed inside the house, and well raised, with a firm concrete bottom
between the ground and water lines, and suitable drains connecting with the main drain under
the front wall, to secure the requisite degree of dryness inside. Up to the present time we
believe every thing has gone on very favorably. We have no doubt that many other places, now
deemed useless, might be converted into good graperies at an expense that the results would
fully warrant. In case this was successful, it was the owner's purpose to extend the house
along the wall at the left; and it was therefore deemed best to insert the valley at the angle,
to save future expense in tearing down the end of the house.

Fig. 36 is a perspective view of the house, which, in connection with Fig. 38 will give the
reader a good idea of the general arrangement. Fig. 37 is a plan.

DESIGN No. 14.

Our next illustration is a hot grapery. It is forty-one feet long and twenty feet wide. Fig.
39 is a perspective view. It is covered with a low, continuous, curvilinear roof, and is without
side lights. The omission of side lights materially lessens the cost of the house, and secures
additional warmth. In some cases, side lights serve no other purpose than architectural effect.
Graperies, propagating houses, and plant houses generally may very well be constructed without
them; some of these houses, indeed, are very much better without them.

In the present instance, to prevent what is called a "squatty" appearance, and also to give
additional headway, the side walls were carried up some twenty inches above the ground line.
The house is thus made to assume a handsome appearance. Air is introduced into the house at
the sides, through underground wooden air chambers opening on the inside near the walk. Instead
of these wooden air chambers, we now use six inch glazed pipes, as being more convenient and
durable. It is an effective and excellent mode of introducing fresh air, without letting it
directly on the plants. Ventilation is effected by the sash over the end doors, and also by
ventilators placed along the ridge board.

Fig. 40 is the ground plan. At the north end a small room is partitioned off for a boiler pit.
On one side is a chest of drawers for seeds, &c., and on the other some shelving. In connection
with the boiler pit is a coal bin, not, however, of very large capacity. The house is heated
by two four-inch pipes, the design being not to work the house very early. The border is entirely
inside the house, and is composed principally of sod, muck, and gravel, with the addition of
some old manure and bone shavings. The vines have done well, annually ripening a fine crop
of fruit, and the house has in all respects proved to be satisfactory.

DESIGN No. 15.

This is a plan of a range of houses designed and built for Joseph Howland, Esq., of Matteawan,
N. Y. It is a large and imposing structure, befitting the character of Mr. Howland's ample
grounds. It stands at the north end of the kitchen garden, and conceals it from the dwelling,
from which the range is in full view. A part of the structure on the right, used as a green
house, not shown in ground plan, was built some four or five years ago with the old sliding
sash roof, which was found so unsatisfactory that at the time of the erection of the new portion,
this roof was removed and replaced with a curvilinear fixed roof to correspond with the rest.

It will be observed that the range is divided into two parts by a road-way. The design of this
was to enable the family to visit the houses at any time in the carriage without exposure to
the weather, and enjoy the fruits, flowers, and temperature of tropical climates, without the
necessity of leaving their homes.

The north side of the middle houses is covered with boards and battened. End ventilation being
impracticable here, top ventilation is increased so as to meet all requirements.

Fig. 41 is the ground plan. On the right is the old green house, a portion of the foundation
of which is shown. This communicates with the hot grapery and tool house, under which is a
capacious root cellar. From the covered road-way, all the parts of this extensive range are
easily accessible. Across the road-way, between the houses, is a handsome double gate, a sketch
of which is given in Fig. 42.

Crossing the road-way, we enter the cold grapery. The foundation of this rests on piers, the
border being outside. There are hot-water pipes in this compartment, to be used only to keep
out frost. It may, however, be used as a "second" hot grapery. Passing out of the cold grapery,
we enter what may be called the conservatory, its principal use being for the show of ornamental
plants; and to this end it has several accessories which add much to its beauty. One of these
which may be noticed is a neat fountain in the centre; always a pretty feature wherever it
can be introduced. Another is a rustic niche or alcove in the north wall, built of rough stones,
over and through which the water constantly trickles into a basin. Its full beauty will not
be seen till it has acquired age, and become covered with mosses and ferns. Fortunately for
the plants and for good taste, there is no shelving in this house. Beds are formed of brick,
with a neat coping, in which the pots are set. This arrangement is much more effective than
any manner of staging could possibly be.

In order to give the reader an idea of the interior of this apartment, we have prepared a perspective
view of it. (See Fig. 43.) From this a good conception can be formed of the appearance and
arrangement of the beds, fountain, &c.

Returning through the cold grapery, we have on its north side a boiler and potting room. The
boiler pit is sunk beneath the floor of this room, and has connected with it a coal bin and
shoot. Communicating with the potting-room is a propagating room, in the north end of the conservatory,
and divided from it by a solid partition. It is provided with hot-water pipes for furnishing
bottom heat. It will propagate all the bedding and other plants needed on the place. It will
thus be seen that there are ample facilities for furnishing an abundant supply of grapes and
flowers. The house, as a whole, forms a marked feature of the grounds.

DESIGN No. 16.

The following design was prepared for Dr. Butler, of the Retreat for the Insane at Hartford,
Conn. The doctor had conceived the idea that a green-house might be made to serve a very important
part in the treatment of the insane, having noticed the soothing influence of plants upon his
patients, more especially the females. We have no doubt that his anticipations will be fully
realized; for we can scarcely conceive of anything better calculated to heal the "mind diseased,"
than daily intercourse with these voiceless, but gladsome children of Nature.

Fig. 44 is a perspective view of the house. It is twenty-four feet wide and seventy-five long.
It has a low, curved roof, and side sashes three feet six inches high. We do not make these
roofs low for the sake of architectural effect, though this point is certainly gained; but
rather for the sake of the plants, a low roof, in this respect, possessing incalculable advantages
over one that is steep. When attention is once generally fixed on this point, plant growers
will not be slow to acknowledge the superiority of the low roof. It has often surprised us
that gardeners will assume a great deal of unnecessary labor for the sake of an old prejudice.
Some of them are slow to avail themselves of improvements that not only lessen their toils,
but bring greater certainty and pleasure to the pursuit of their profession. Others, again,
are quick enough to avail themselves of every facility brought within their reach. We could
wish that the latter class might multiply rapidly.

One of the prettiest features about this house is its rounded ends. The pitch of the roof and
the width of the house are such, taken in connection with the circular ends, that all the lines
flow into each other with the utmost harmony. These different parts were studied with reference
to producing this result, and we think it has been done with some degree of success. The finials,
the ornament along the ridge, and the entrance door, are all in keeping with the rest of the
structure.

Fig. 45 is the ground plan. This presents some peculiarities. The house being designed for
the use of the insane, it was desirable to place the heating apparatus out of their reach;
the boiler is therefore placed under ground. For this purpose a vault of sufficient size to
hold the boiler and several tons of coal, is built under ground in front of the house. It is
substantially built of brick, and arched over. The smoke shaft is carried up through the roof,
and finished above ground in the form of a column or pedestal, surmounted with a vase, as seen
in Fig. 44. To harmonize the grounds, and conceal the purpose of this column, another is placed
on the opposite side of the path. In summer, these vases will be filled with plants, and the
columns are intended to be covered with vines, thus making them subserve an ornamental purpose.
There are two entrances to the boiler vault, one from within by a concealed trap-door, and
the other from without. The house will be heated by hot water pipes.

There will be neither shelves nor tables in the house. The plants will be set either on or
in the ground, and the whole interior made to resemble as much as possible a flower garden.
The plants will thus be easier seen, better enjoyed, and more appreciated than if placed either
on tables or staging. In any well-designed house, the plants look and grow infinitely better
upon flat tables; and a large class of plants will grow even better upon the earthen floor
of the house.

DESIGN No. 17.

Our next example is a lean-to grapery for early forcing. It was designed for a gentleman in
Connecticut, and we believe has since been built.

