The author of this strange melange, however, is not without a dash of merit; he possesses a
terrier-like power of poking about into holes and corners, and dragging to light a variety
of facts which might escape the attention of less vigilant tourists. For example, he is not
satisfied with the mere sight or employment of omnibuses, street-porters, chiffonniers, and
other agents of the public service, but must know all about them--how the omnibus horses live,
and how many miles they run per diem; what variety of occupations the porters resort to for
a livelihood; and what are the substances, and their value, that the chiffonniers scrape every
morning from the kennel. Sir Francis is great on pig slaughter-houses, furnished lodgings,
and police-officers. He tells you every particular of his lodging: how he ascended the stair;
what landing-places there were; what price he was to pay; how the servant brought him too few
pieces of butter to breakfast, and what he said in ordering more; how one day he perceived
a bad smell in his sitting-room, and shifted to a higher part of the building, where the bad
smell did not come; how he finally paid his account, and how the concierge bade him good-by.
All important information this. An equally true and particular narrative is given of Sir Francis's
object in visiting Paris, which was to consult an occulist on the subject of his eyes. In going
to the occulist's, we are informed how he left his lodgings at a quarter before seven o'clock;
how he crossed the Place Vendôme, and saw a sentinel pacing at the foot of Napoleon's Column;
how he observed that the sentinel had the misfortune to have a hole in his greatcoat, which
affords an opportunity too good to be lost for quoting that little-known verse of Burns's--'If
there's a hole in a' your coats,' &c.; how he then, being done with looking at the sentinel,
goes on his way, crosses the Boulevard des Italiens, and enters the Rue de la Chaussée d'Antin;
how he looks about him till he sees No. 50, and, having spoken a word to the door-keeper, goes
up stairs. Then, he informs his readers that he rang the doctor's bell; and how, the door being
opened by a boy in livery, he was shewn into a drawing-room. Here, he tells us, he sat down
in company with a number of other patients, waiting their turn to be called by the doctor.
Vastly amusing all this, but nothing to what follows:--'For a considerable time we all sat
in mute silence, and, indeed, in our respective attitudes, almost motionless, save that every
now and then a gentleman, and sometimes a lady, would arise, slowly walk diagonally across
the carpet to a corner close to the window, press with his or her hand the top of a little
mahogany machine that looked like an umbrella-stand, look down into it, and then very slowly,
at a sort of funereal pace, walk back. All this I bore with great fortitude for some time:
at last, overpowered by curiosity, I arose, walked slowly and diagonally across the carpet,
pushed the thing in the corner exactly as I had seen everybody else push it, looked just as
they did, downwards, where, close to the floor, I beheld open, in obedience to the push I had
given from the top, the lid of a spitting-box, from which I very slowly, and without attracting
the smallest observation, walked back to my chair.' Wonderful power of description this!

Having had the honour of receiving an invitation to dinner at the Elysée, Sir Francis of course
goes at the appointed hour, seven o'clock. The following is his account of the affair. After
passing through the entrance-hall, 'I slowly walked through two or three handsome rooms en
suite, full of interesting pictures, into a drawing-room, in which I found assembled, in about
equal proportions, about fifty very well-dressed ladies and gentlemen, the latter being principally
officers, whose countenances, not less clearly than the decorations on their breasts, announced
them to be persons of distinction. The long sofas and chairs, as if they had only just come
out--or rather, as if they had just come up from the country to come out--had arranged themselves
so very formally, and altogether behaved so very awkwardly, that it was almost impossible for
the company assembled to appear as much at their ease as, from their position, education, and
manners, they really were; and accordingly, biassed by the furniture, they kept moving, and
bowing, and courtesying, and sotto-voce talking, until they got into a parallelogram, in the
centre of which stood, distinguished by a broad ribbon, and by a mild, thoughtful, benevolent
countenance, Prince Louis Napoleon, whose gentle and gentleman-like bearing to every person
who approached him entitled him to that monarchical homage in which the majority evidently
delighted, but which it was alike his policy as well as his inclination--at all events to appear--to
suppress; and accordingly the parallelogram, which, generally speaking, was at the point of
congelation, sometimes and of its own accord froze into the formality of a court, and then
all of a sudden appeared to recollect that the Prince was the President, and that the whole
party had assembled to enjoy liberté, fraternité, and égalité. As I was observing the various
phases that one after another presented themselves to view, the principal officer of the household
came up to me, and in a quiet and appropriate tone of voice, requested me to do two things;
one of which appeared to me to be rather easy, and the other--or rather to do both--extremely
difficult. By an inclination of his forehead he pointed to two ladies of rank, whose names
he mentioned to me, but with whom I was perfectly unacquainted, seated on the sofas at different
points of the parallelogram. 'When dinner is announced you will be so good,' he said, 'as to
offer your arm to ---- ' (the one) 'and to seat yourself next to ---- ' (the other.) Of course
I silently bowed assent; but while the officer who had spoken to me was giving similar instructions
to other gentlemen, I own I felt a little nervous, lest, during the polite scramble in which
I was about to engage, like the dog in the fable, grasping at the shadow of the second lady,
I might lose the substance of the first, or vice versâ. However, when the doors were thrown
open, I very quickly, with a profound reverence, obtained my prize, and at once confiding to
her--for had I deliberated I should have been lost--the remainder of the pleasing duty it had
been predestined I was to have the honour to perform, we glided through couples darting in
various directions for similar objects, until, finding ourselves in a formal procession sufficiently
near to the lady in question, we proceeded, at a funereal pace, towards our doom, which proved
to be a most delightful one. Seated in obedience to the orders I had received, we found ourselves
exactly opposite "le Prince," who had, of course, on his right and left, the two ladies of
highest rank. The table was very richly ornamented, and it was quite delightful to observe
at a glance what probably in mathematics, or even in philosophy, it might have been rather
troublesome to explain--namely, the extraordinary difference which existed between forty or
fifty ladies and gentlemen standing in a parallelogram in a drawing-room, and the very same
number and the very same faces, rectilinearly seated in the very same form in a dining-room.
It was the difference between sterility and fertility, between health and sickness, between
joy and sorrow, between winter and summer; in fact, between countenances frozen into Lapland
formality and glowing with tropical animation and delight. Everybody's mouth had apparently
something kind to say to its neighbour's eyes; and the only alloy was that, as each person
had two neighbours, his lips, under a sort of embarras des richesses, occasionally found it
rather difficult to express all that was polite and pleasing to both.' Dinner being over, all
returned to the drawing-room in the same formal order. Each gentleman bowed ceremoniously to
the lady he had conducted, she withdrew her arm, 'and the sofas were again to be seen fringed
by rows of satin shoes; while the carpet, in all other directions, was subjected to the pressure
of boots, that often remained for a short time motionless as before. A general buzz of conversation,
however, soon enlivened the room; and the President, gladly availing himself of it, mingled
familiarly with the crowd.'

In the course of his rambles through Paris, Sir Francis visits various casernes or military
barracks, and military schools. He also makes sundry investigations into the functions and
matériel of the French army, and finally, in company with Louis Napoleon, goes to a review.
The sum of these proceedings is, that he is much struck with the progress made by the French
in strategy and military manoeuvres, especially in their musket-ball firing, against which,
he says, we have no chance. Everybody knows that our author is an alarmist, ever sighing over
our want of national defences, and dreaming of invasion and rapine. At the same time, his details
on military affairs are worth the notice of those to whom the business of military education
is intrusted.

Sir Francis is very much pleased with the Parisian street commissionaires or porters, and wonders
that no such luxury is general in London. One day he invites the nearest commissionaire to
visit his lodging, and tell him his whole story, which the man gladly did. Setting off at a
great rate, he said:--'Sir, I black boots; I saw wood; I take it up into the apartments; I
carry portmanteaus and luggage, and whatever offers itself; I carry letters and parcels; I
rub the floors of apartments and stairs; I wash the floors and the dining-rooms; I change furniture
from one house to another with a handbarrow--carried by two men with leathern straps; I draw
a cart with portmanteaus, wood, or furniture; I beat carpets, take them up out of the apartments,
and carry them to the barrier outside Paris (yes, sir); I bring them back to the persons to
whom they belong; I lay them down. I know how to arrange a room; I make the beds; I colour
the inlaid floors of the apartments; I watch a sick person through the night and day (a shrug)
for so much a day (a shrug), and for the night also (a shrug); I agree as to the price with
those persons who employ me, for five francs the night, eight francs for the twenty-four hours,
when they do not feed me; besides, I watch the dead in the apartment during the twenty-four
hours that they remain exposed; in short (three shrugs), I do whatever is offered to me. I
receive commercial notes for whoever will charge me with the commission, and who will give
me the note to enable me to receive it; I bring back the money to the person who has intrusted
me with the note, and the person pays me for my commission; I pawn at the Mont de Piété whatever
the public is willing to intrust to me--jewels (a shrug), chains, watches, gold or silver;
I pawn silver spoons and forks, for eating; I pawn clocks, linen; they take everything in pawn
(a shrug) at the Mont de Piété--furniture, pianos, mattresses, candelabras, lustres: in short,
they take in pawn everything of value; and I bring back the money and the pawnbroker's ticket
to the person who has intrusted me with the commission, and at the same time that person pays
me for my commission. Afterwards, I redeem pawned articles from the Mont de Piété for all those
persons who choose to honour me with their commissions, provided that the person puts his signature
on the back of the paper which the Mont de Piété delivered to him on the day when he pawned
the aforesaid articles. I act as commissioner throughout all the departments of France, and
also (shrug) in foreign countries, according to the price agreed on, and at a reasonable price;
I travel on the railways (shrug), in the diligence (shrug); I go as quick as I can, and I come
back as quick as I can; I rub down a horse--I can! I feed him; wash the carriage; drive the
carriage; arrange the cellar; rinse out the bottles; bottle the wine; pile up the bottles after
they are corked and stamped; lower the hogsheads of wine into the cellar with a thick rope,
with the help of a comrade, and the price is two francs for each hogshead. In my own country,
I am a labourer, and do everything relating to the cultivation of the ground. I root up the
trees; I saw them into several lengths; I split the wood; pile it up to dry; then load it on
mules, and carry it to the house to be burned; afterwards I mow the hay and corn; carry the
corn into the barn (shrug), and the hay also; thrash the corn, and put it away into the granary;
from whence they take it out by little and little to have it ground and to make bread. I prune
the vines.' Here the commissionaire gives an account of the whole process of wine-making, in
which he is an adept; and then goes on to explain how he is employed as a spy on families and
others, all in the way of business. He ends with saying that trade is dull, and blames the
revolution of 1848 for ruining his employment--for why? 'Everybody is afraid of the future.
Everybody is economical; everybody is hiding, hoarding, or saving his money, because he knows
that affairs cannot continue as they are, that sooner or later there will be another revolution.'
Such a country! The revolution thus anticipated has taken place. By relieving the Parisians
from the fears of a social upbreak--a universal sack of property--for that was preying on their
minds--the grand coup of Louis Napoleon will doubtless set money afloat, and restore occupation
to the humbler classes--the real sufferers by revolutions.

