When, however, it became apparent that George the Fourth was to keep around him the ministers
who had served him when he was Prince Regent, it was determined that the work must go on. 
Edwards, the spy, was able to make it known to Thistlewood that there was to be a dinner of
the members of the Cabinet on February 23, 1820, and the opportunity was thought to be placed
by a kindly fate in the hands of the conspirators. Meanwhile the minister at whose house the
dinner was to take place, Lord {18} Harrowby, was kept fully informed of all that was going
on, and he wisely resolved to take no public notice of the scheme until the day for the dinner
should arrive, when the instruments of the wholesale murder-plot could be suddenly arrested
at the moment of their attempt to carry out their design.  Thistlewood and most of his companions
had their headquarters in the garrets of a house in Cato Street, Edgware Road, and there it
was arranged among them that they should remain until one or two of their accomplices, who
were kept at watch for the purpose, should come to them and report that the doomed dinner-guests
had assembled.  Then the conspirators were to repair to the neighborhood of Lord Harrowby's
house in Grosvenor Square.  One of the outpost men was to knock at Lord Harrowby's door, and
the moment the door was opened all the gang were to rush in and put the ministers to death.
Lord Harrowby took good care not to have any guests that evening, but the outpost men of the
conspiracy were deceived by the fact that a dinner-party was actually going on at the house
of the Archbishop of York next door, and when they saw carriages arriving there they felt sure
this was the dinner-party for which they were waiting.  They waited there until the last of
the guests appeared to have arrived, and then set out to give notice to Thistlewood and his
companions.  Before the outpost men had got back to Cato Street the police were already there,
and an attempt was made to arrest the whole of the conspirators.  A scuffle took place, in
which Thistlewood stabbed one of the policemen to the heart.  The constituted authorities had
contrived to make almost as much of a bungle as the conspirators had done; the military force
did not arrive in time, and Thistlewood and some of his accomplices succeeded, for the moment,
in making their escape.  It was only for the moment.  Thistlewood was arrested next day.  There
was nothing heroic or dramatic about the manner of his capture.  He had sought refuge at the
house of a friend in Moorfields, and he was comfortably asleep in bed when the house was surrounded
and he was made prisoner.  He was put on trial soon after, and, {19} with four of his accomplices,
was sentenced to death, and on May 1 the five were executed.

[Sidenote: 1820--The government and the conspiracy]

The evidence at the trial made it clear to any reasonable mind that the plot was confined altogether
to the small knot of ignorant desperadoes who held their councils in Cato Street, and to the
informer Edwards, who had been in communication with them.  The public were never allowed to
know what had become of this man Edwards.  Had he been pensioned by the Government and been
allowed to pass into honorable and comfortable retirement, or was he to be arrested and put
on his trial like other conspirators?  Several attempts were made to get at the truth by means
of questions to the ministers in the House of Commons, but no satisfactory reply could be extracted
or extorted.  Indeed, it seemed quite probable that the general feeling among the ruling classes
at the time would have been that the Government had done a very good thing by employing a man
to help in working up murderous conspiracies in order that such conspiracies should be frightened
out of existence, and that it was quite right to protect and reward the emissaries who had
rendered such faithful service.  For a time there was a widespread and sincere belief that
the Cato Street conspiracy was only one in a vast network of conspiracies from which nothing
but the severest measures of repression could save England.  The King himself in his royal
message to Parliament was careful to make use of the Cato Street conspiracy as another and
a crowning evidence of the necessity which existed for the wholesale application of the criminal
law in order to save the State from the triumph of anarchy.  A season of absolute panic set
in and the most trivial political disturbance arising in any part of the country was magnified
into another attempt of the emissaries of revolution to upset the Throne, pull down the Church,
and turn the State into the republic of a rabble.

It is quite clear now to all readers of history that such attempts as those planned by the
Cato Street conspirators can only exist at a time when stern and savage restrictions are set
upon all efforts to obtain a free public hearing for {20} the discussion of political and social
grievances.  Where political wrongs can be arraigned in the open day, there is no occasion
for the work of the midnight conspirator.  Already in England public men were coming forward
who were filled with the noble and patriotic desire to give the philosophy of history some
share in the guidance of political life.  Popular education had been totally neglected in England,
and, indeed, the too common impression among the ruling classes was that the lower orders of
the people could never be kept in due obedience to their superiors if they were permitted to
make themselves unfit for their station by learning how to read and write. Even the criminal
laws themselves bore terrible testimony to the prevailing ideas, by the fact that property
was proclaimed as sacred a possession as life itself.

[Sidenote: 1820--Offences that entailed the death penalty]

In the early days of George the Fourth's reign Sir James Mackintosh, the famous historian,
philosopher, and philanthropist, brought into the House of Commons a measure for abolishing
the punishment of death in cases of the stealing of property to the value of five shillings,
and he succeeded in carrying his measure through Parliament.  Up to that time men and women
had been executed, year after year, for stealing from a shop any goods of the value of five
shillings, were the goods but a few loaves of high-priced bread carried off for the purpose
of relieving the sufferings of a hungry family.  Sir James Mackintosh's measure aimed at the
abolition of the death penalty in a large number of other minor offences, but he only succeeded
in robbing the gallows of its victims in two other classes of small offences as well as that
which has just been mentioned.

At this time of day one reads with amazement the arguments which men like Lord Chancellor Eldon
directed against the humane measures introduced by Sir James Mackintosh.  Parliament and the
country were solemnly warned that if such relaxation of the death punishment were sanctioned
by law, the smaller class of tradesmen would have to give up their shops and their business
altogether, because it would be utterly impossible for them {21} to keep any goods in their
windows or on their shelves if the punishment of death were not maintained for the theft of
a shawl or a snuff-box.  At the same time it was well known to everybody who had eyes to see
or ears to hear that numbers of shoplifters escaped punishment altogether because humane juries
refused, even on the plainest evidence, to find a verdict of guilty where such a verdict would
send the prisoner from the dock to the gallows.  Many a jury, too, when it was impossible to
doubt that a theft had been committed, acted on the ingenious plan of declaring in their verdict
that the articles stolen, whatever their obvious market worth, were under the value of five
shillings, thereby saving the offender from the doom of death.  Thus the repressive power of
the law was necessarily diminished by the uncertainty which common humanity put in the way
of its regular enforcement, and that very barbarity of punishment which was intended to keep
men back from crime by its mere terrors gave to the criminal only another chance of escape.

Sir James Mackintosh had brought in his measures as successor, in that line of philanthropic
reform, to the lamented Sir Samuel Romilly, whose melancholy death, already referred to, had
created a profound sensation throughout England and abroad towards the close of the late reign.
About the time when Mackintosh was thus making his partly successful attempt to put some check
on the application of the death penalty, Henry Brougham was arousing the attention of Parliament
and the country to the lamentable and disgraceful absence of anything like a system of national
education.  On June 28, 1820, Brougham brought forward the first definite proposal submitted
to the House of Commons for a scheme of national education designed to apply to England and
Wales.  A parliamentary committee had been sitting for some time to make inquiries and receive
evidence as to the state of education in the poorer districts of the land.  This, too, was
owing almost altogether to the energy and the efforts of Brougham, but the inquiries of the
committee were resulting in nothing very practical, and Brougham therefore {22} went a step
further than he had previously gone and brought forward his definite scheme for national education.
It is hardly necessary to say that he did not succeed in carrying his measure, and that generations
had yet to pass away before any real and comprehensive effort wag made by the State to establish
such a system of popular education in these countries as had been known to Prussia and other
European nations almost for time out of mind.  But Brougham had at least started the question,
and he never ceased to keep it moving during his long life.  Other reformers, too, as well
as Mackintosh and Brougham, were making their voices heard above, or at all events through,
the din and clamor of the controversy between the friends of the King and the champions of
the Queen.  Lord John Russell may be said to have then begun his noble career as reformer of
the system of parliamentary representation, and Mr. Lambton, afterwards to be better known
as Lord Durham, made more than one bold effort in the same direction.

[Sidenote: 1821--George the Fourth visits Ireland]

Russell and Lambton were both unsuccessful just then.  The time had not yet come when the question
of parliamentary reform was to break up ministries, set the country aflame with agitation,
and put a thick-witted Sovereign to the necessity of choosing between submission to the popular
demand or facing the risk of revolution.  But it might have been clear to reflective men that
the days of unconditional loyalty to the will of a monarch had nearly run their course in England,
and that the demand for a reform in the criminal law, a relaxation of the repression of free
speech, the establishment of some system of popular education, and the adoption of a really
representative principle in the construction of Parliament was destined before long to prove
irresistible.  The case of the reformers was emphasized by the widespread agricultural distress
from which the country had long been suffering.  The inevitable reaction had set in, too, after
the spasmodic inflation of trade and commerce which had accompanied the long period of war.
Even if the governing system of England had been as wise and humane as it was {23} unenlightened
and harsh, the condition of the country would, of itself, have favored almost any demand for
reform.  As the Government system actually was, only a national prosperity of universal and
impossible sleekness could have kept the people of England much longer indifferent to the necessity
for reform in almost every department of the political and social system.

Meanwhile the new King was paying his round of State visits to Ireland, to Hanover, and to
Scotland.  We have seen already how the royal progress to Ireland was delayed by the inconvenient
occurrence of the Queen's death.  George soon, however, felt it proper to put away all affectation
of grief, and to pay his visit to Ireland.  Great hopes were entertained there for the beneficent
results of the royal visit. George had been during his earlier days in political sympathy as
well as boon companionship with Fox and with Sheridan.  Fox had always shown himself a true
friend to Ireland.  The Irish national poet, Thomas Moore, had, in one of his songs, described
the Banshee as wailing over the grave of him "on whose burning tongue truth, peace, and freedom
hung."  It was fondly believed in Ireland that the King was returning to the sympathies of
his earlier days, and that his coming to the island must bring blessings with it.  Daniel O'Connell,
the orator and tribune of the Irish people, appears to have been thoroughly impressed with
the same hopes and the same conviction, and he brought on himself some satirical lines from
Byron in scorn of his credulity and his confidence.  We shall soon have occasion to see what
return O'Connell got for his loyalty and his devotion.

The last of the great Irish patriots of the past age, Henry Grattan, had been buried in Westminster
Abbey the year before George's visit to Ireland.  It was well that so pure-minded and austere
a lover of his country should have been spared the necessity of taking any part in the ceremonials
of welcome which attended the arrival of the new Sovereign in Ireland.  George undoubtedly
received what seemed to be a thoroughly national welcome, for it was fully believed all through
the country that his visit was {24} to open a new era of peace, prosperity, and well-merited
loyalty to Ireland.  King George threw himself thoroughly into the spirit of the occasion.
He acted his part with admirable effect.  He was sympathetic, he was convivial, he was pathetic,
he was boisterous, exactly as the theatrical effect of the moment seemed to call for the display
of this or that emotion.  In truth, the character of George the Fourth never can be thoroughly
understood unless we are able to see how much of the artistic, in a certain sense, there was
in his temperament.  He had that peculiar gift which has lately come to be called "artistic"--sincerely
by some critics, satirically by others--the gift which enables a man to throw his whole soul
and spirit into any part which the occasion calls on him to act.  George was almost always
playing a part, but it was his artistic temperament which enabled him to believe that he actually
felt at the moment the very emotions which he tried to express.  The favorite dramatic type
of the conscious hypocrite and the deliberate self-recognized deceiver is much less common
in real life than it was believed to be at one period of our literary history.  We may take
it for granted that George fully believed himself to be acting with perfect sincerity on most
of the occasions in his life when he had to utter eloquent sentiments appropriate to the scene
and the hour, or to fling himself into the different humors of those whom, at different times,
he was anxious to please.

[Sidenote: 1821--The King's reception in Ireland]

During his public performances--for thus they may properly be called--in Ireland, George was
sometimes grave, sometimes gay; shed tears in some places, indulged in touches of buffoonery
in others; and wherever he went seemed to be giving to those around him only the most sincere
outpouring of his own humor and of his own heart.  He appears thoroughly to have enjoyed his
popularity, and to have regarded himself, for the hour, as the justly idolized hero of the
land which he had come to redeem and to bless.  The harbor where he first landed in Ireland,
which was called Dunleary then, has been called Kingstown ever since, for its name was changed
in honor of the monarch's {25} visit to his Irish subjects.  The tourist who has just arrived
at Kingstown by the steamer from Holyhead, and who takes his seat in the train for Dublin,
may see from the window of the railway carriage an obelisk, not very imposing either in its
height or in its sculptured form, which seems a little out of place amid the ordinary accessories
of a railway and steamboat station.  This is the monument which the grateful authorities of
the Irish capital erected to commemorate the spot on which George the Fourth had set his august
feet when he landed on the shores of Ireland.  Except for the obelisk and the change of name
there was not much done to keep the memory of the King green in the recollections of the Irish
people.

On August 12 George landed at Dunleary, where anxious and enthusiastic crowds had long been
waiting to welcome him.  He was received with universal cries of "The King!  God bless him!"
to which he replied by waving the foraging-cap which he had been wearing, and crying out, "God
bless you all; I thank you from my heart."  Then he got into his carriage, and with a cavalcade
of his attendants and a concourse of admiring followers he drove to the Viceregal Lodge in
Phoenix Park, some eight or nine miles' distance.  When he arrived at the Lodge he alighted
from the carriage and proclaimed to the crowd, "In addressing you I conceive that I am addressing
the nobility, gentry, and yeomen of Ireland.  This is one of the happiest moments of my life.
I feel pleased being the first of my family that set foot on Irish ground. Early in my life
I loved Ireland, and I rejoice at being among my beloved Irish friends.  I always considered
them such, and this day proves to me I am beloved by them."  Then he went on to say that "circumstances
of a delicate nature," to which it was needless to advert, had prevented him from visiting
them earlier.  Rank, station, and honor were nothing to him, but "to feel that I live in the
hearts of my Irish subjects is to me the most exalted happiness."  He wound up with the touching
words, "I assure you, my dear friends, I have an Irish heart, and will this night give a proof
of my affection towards you, as I am sure you will towards {26} me, by drinking your health
in a bumper of whiskey punch."

[Sidenote: 1821--The King and the Primacy of all Ireland]

This speech may be taken as the keynote of George's behavior throughout the entire visit. 
On the 17th of the month he made his grand state entrance into Dublin in an open carriage drawn
by eight horses, and he wore in his hat an enormous bunch of shamrocks, to which, by repeated
gestures, he kept incessantly calling the attention of the crowd.  More than once as he gazed
upon his admiring followers he was observed to shed tears.  Afterwards he attended reviews,
showed himself at the theatre, was present at a great ball at the Mansion House, received an
entertainment at Trinity College, and visited the residences of some of the Irish nobility.
He talked to everybody, and sometimes in his conversation showed much of the good sense and
shrewdness which really belonged to him, but in his demeanor towards the general multitude
he always enacted the part of an enthusiastic Sovereign whose enthusiasm sometimes showed itself
in the form of what might have been called, if he were not a Sovereign, outrageous mountebankcry.
On Monday, September 3, he quitted the shores of Ireland.  Just before his departure he received
a deputation headed by Daniel O'Connell, who fell upon his knees, and in that attitude of loyal
devotion presented his Majesty with a laurel crown.  The King was particularly gracious to
O'Connell, shook him warmly by the hand, and accepted gratefully the gift offered to him, and,
for the time, O'Connell divided the applause of the crowd with the monarch.  There was a renewed
interchange of good wishes and blessings, and then the King got into his barge to be conveyed
to the steamer, and several loyal Irishmen, in their enthusiasm, rushing to see the last of
him, tumbled into the sea, and with some difficulty rescued themselves, or were rescued, from
drowning.

This may be said to have ended the royal visit so far as history is concerned, for, although
the King's return to England was delayed for several days by contrary winds, he had nothing
more to do with his Irish subjects.  Byron {27} wrote some satirical verses, which he prefaced
with the words of Curran, the great Irish advocate and orator, describing Ireland like "a bastinadoed
elephant kneeling to receive the paltry rider," and in which he made mockery of O'Connell's
loyalty, paid a just and generous tribute to Grattan, and proclaimed sincerely his own love
for Ireland and his thorough appreciation of her national cause.  Then the royal visit was
over, and the Irish people were soon to learn the value of the King's profession of sympathy
with the wishes and the wants of his devoted Irish subjects.  A curious illustration of the
sincerity of these royal sentiments may be found in a letter written by the King not very long
after to his Prime Minister, Lord Liverpool, and marked "Most secret and confidential."  The
letter had reference to the appointment of a new occupant to the exalted office of Primate
of All Ireland, and the King says, "I do not like, I cannot reconcile myself to have the Primacy
of Ireland filled by an Irishman." The King, when writing this letter, appears to have been
in one of his deeply religious moods.  "I am too far advanced in life," he says, "not to give
subjects of this description the most serious and attentive consideration.  It is, alas! but
too true that policy is too often obliged to interfere with our best intentions, but I do think
where the head of the Church is concerned, especially at such a moment, we ought alone to be
influenced by religious duty.  Do not be surprised at this scrupulous language, for I am quite
sincere."  Very likely King George was quite sincere in this momentary burst of religious emotion.
It was a part of his artistic nature to be able thus to fill himself with any emotion which
helped out the performance he had in hand; but it is at least an odd comment on his recent
emotions of love for the Irish people and absolute trust in their loyal devotion, that he could
not reconcile himself to the idea of allowing any Irishman to occupy the position of Primate
of All Ireland.  There was no question in this of Protestant against Roman Catholic, and that
Coronation Oath, which had in the former reign proved so formidable an obstacle to the recognition
of any Catholic {28} claims, was in no wise brought into question. Nobody suggested that a
Roman Catholic bishop should be made Primate of All Ireland, but it was strange that soon after
George's reiterated professions of love for his Irish people, and absolute trust in them, he
could not reconcile himself to the idea of any Protestant bishop, however meritorious, being
raised to such an office if the Protestant bishop happened to be an Irishman.

[Sidenote: 1822--George the Fourth visits Scotland]

King George had to leave his capital again in order to visit other lands where he had subjects
to gratify with the pleasure of his presence.  He paid a visit to Hanover, and then to Scotland.
George, it need hardly be said, was King of Hanover as well as of England, and he thought it
right that he should illumine the Hanoverians with the light of his royal countenance.  So
he made his way to Hanover, taking Brussels in his course.  He was accompanied thus far by
the Duke of Wellington and other eminent persons, and he took the opportunity of surveying
the field of Waterloo, and having all the striking points of the battle-field pointed out and
explained to him by the Duke of Wellington.  It would appear that the sovereign's personal
survey of the field on which Napoleon's last great battle had been fought only served to strengthen
the impression on his mind that he had himself taken a part, and even a distinguished and heroic
part, in that immortal struggle.  Here again the artistic nature asserted itself.  No doubt
it had long seemed to George that the heir to the English throne ought to have taken a leading
part in a battle which was a turning-point in the history of England, and by degrees he had
contrived to persuade himself into the belief that he had actually done the deeds required
by the dramatic fitness of things, for it was well known that, at certain seasons of inspiration,
he had described himself as leading a desperate charge at Waterloo.  Then he pursued his way
to Hanover, and he made much the same demonstrations of deep emotion as those which had delighted
the crowds at Dunleary and in Dublin.  Again and again he protested his love and his devotion
for his Hanoverian subjects, again and again he accompanied {29} with voice and with gesture
the singing of patriotic hymns, and on more than one occasion the royal eyes were seen to be
streaming over with sympathetic tears.

All this, however, did not prevent him from sometimes making it known to the more intimate
companions of his journey that he was greatly bored by the Germans in general, and that he
was particularly disgusted with the Hanoverians.  George had always some chosen favorite holding
important personal office in his courtly retinue, and to him, in moments of relaxation, he
occasionally let out his real feelings with regard to the ceremonial performances which he
believed it his duty to get through.  Then he visited Scotland, and was welcomed by enthusiastic
crowds at Leith and in Edinburgh.  While he was still on board the royal vessel at Leith he
was waited on by several distinguished representatives of Scottish feeling, and among others
by no less a personage than Sir Walter Scott.  George was very gracious in his reception of
the great novelist, and assured Sir Walter that he was the one man in Scotland whom he most
wished to see.  As had been the fashion during his visit to Ireland, there was a good deal
of spirit-drinking when the King came to testify his gratitude for the loyal welcome given
to him by his Scottish subjects.  His Majesty poured out with his own hand some cherry brandy
into a glass, which he tendered to Sir Walter Scott, and Sir Walter not merely drank off the
liquid thus commended to him, but asked permission to keep the glass as a perpetual relic of
the royal giver and of the august occasion.  One can easily imagine how the sudden fate of
the precious relic must have amused {30} and delighted the satirical genius of Thackeray, who
could not quite forgive even Sir Walter Scott for having lent himself to the fulsome adulation
which it was thought proper to offer to George the Fourth on the occasion of his visit to his
kingdom of Scotland.

Thackeray, indeed, seems to have been a little too hard upon George, and to have regarded him
merely as a worthless profligate and buffoon, who never really felt any of the generous emotions
which the sovereign found it convenient to summon up at the appropriate seasons.  Our own study
of the character leads us to the opinion already expressed, that George did actually believe
for the time in the full sincerity of the feelings he thought proper to call into action on
the occasion of an important ceremonial, and that the feelings were no less genuine at the
moment than those which came on him when the performance was over, and he had an opportunity
of showing the new state of his mind in the reaction of weariness caused by the whole tiresome
proceedings.  George went through the usual rounds of visits in Scotland, and put on an appearance
of absolute enjoyment during the public entertainments and popular acclamations which he had
brought upon himself.  He displayed himself frequently in a suit of Stuart tartan when he did
not array himself in his costume as a field-marshal.  We read that during the singing of royal
songs he not only beat time to the chorus, but actually accompanied it with his voice.  His
parting words when he was leaving the shores of Scotland were the deep-toned and thrilling
benediction, "God bless you all!"  The loyal chroniclers of the time proclaimed that the visit
to Scotland was a perfect success, and if the loyal chroniclers at the time were not in a position
to know, how can we of a later date, who had not the advantage of being present at the scene,
or even of being alive at the time, pretend to dispute the accuracy of their estimate?

{31}

CHAPTER LXV.

GEORGE CANNING.

[Sidenote: 1720-87--Canning and the King]

We have seen how the course of the proceedings taken against the Queen deprived the Liverpool
Ministry of the services of its most brilliant member, George Canning.  Canning had made up
his mind from the beginning that he could not appear as one of the Queen's accusers, although
he had consented, as a compromise, to the omission of her name from the Royal Liturgy.  He
had consented to this compromise because, although he did not believe in the worst of the charges
against the Queen, he could not help admitting that there was much in her conduct which rendered
her unsuitable as the reigning consort of the King; and at the time he did not understand that
the King's disapproval of her actions was to take the form of a prosecution and a demand for
divorce.  He had applied to the King for leave to resign his office in the Ministry, and had
only been induced to remain on the understanding that he was not expected to take any part
in the public proceedings against the unhappy Caroline.  When, however, it became evident that
the whole question would be raised in the House of Commons, and that he must either give a
silent assent to the course taken by the King's advisers or publicly condemn it there, he felt
it his duty to send in his resignation of his place in the Ministry and to stand by his resolve.
Canning withdrew from office and became, for the time, merely a private member of the House
of Commons.  King George got it into his mind that his former minister had deserted his cause
at an anxious and critical moment, and the King, who was flighty enough in most of his purposes,
seldom forgot what he regarded as an injury.  He never forgave Canning, {32} although the time
was now coming when hardly any choice was left him but to take Canning back into his service
again, and under conditions that gave Canning a greater influence over public affairs than
he had ever had before.

[Sidenote: 1720-87--The early life of Canning]

After the group of illustrious men, which included the elder and the younger Pitt, Fox, Burke,
and Sheridan, had disappeared from English public life, Canning was through the whole of his
career the greatest Parliamentary orator and leader in England.  Up to the time at which we
have now arrived, he had not yet won his highest reputation as a statesman.  He was born under
conditions which might have been depressing and disheartening to one of different mould.  His
father was a man of old family and well connected, who had in his earlier years developed some
taste for literature, and was regarded by most of his relatives as one who merely brought discredit
on his kindred by his mean ambition to devote himself to the profession of letters.  The elder
Canning does not seem, however, to have had a capacity for making a real success in that way,
and, indeed, it would appear as if he had too much of the often fatal gift of the amateur in
his composition to allow him to concentrate his energies on any one pursuit.  He sought for
success in various fields and never found it, and he died soon after his son, George Canning,
was born.  The mother of the future statesman was thus left a widow while she was still young,
and, as she had great beauty and believed that she had a vocation for the stage, she did her
best to make a living for herself and her child by becoming a professional actress.  She was
not much of an actress, however, and, being unable to make any mark in London, she passed for
a time into the provinces, and at last married an actor and disappeared from historical notice.

Meanwhile, the education of George Canning the son had been provided for by his uncle, a wealthy
merchant and banker, Stratford Canning, whose son was afterwards famous as Lord Stratford de
Redcliffe, the "great Elchi" of Kinglake.  This uncle seemed anxious to make reparation for
the manner in which his dead brother had been {33} treated by the family in general. The young
Canning was sent to Eton and to Oxford, and began to study for the bar, but he displayed such
distinct talents for literature and for politics that there seemed little likelihood of his
devoting himself to the business of law.  He soon became known at Oxford as a charming poet,
a keen and brilliant satirist, and a public speaker endowed with a voice of marvellous intonation
and an exquisite choice of words.  He made the acquaintance of Sheridan and of Burke; by Burke
he was introduced to Pitt, and by Sheridan to Fox, and it is believed to have been on the suggestion
of Pitt that he resolved to devote himself to a Parliamentary career.  He married a woman who
had a large fortune, and he obtained a seat in the House of Commons.  In that House he remained
silent for a whole session after his election, and devoted himself to a close study of the
rules, the usages, and the manners of the representative chamber.  In those far-off days it
was considered becoming on the part of a young member of the House to observe a modest silence
for a great part of his first session, and to make himself familiar with the assembly before
he ventured on any public display of his eloquence.  The time had not yet come when it was
considered humanly possible for a member of Parliament to make his first speech on the very
day of his first introduction to the House of Commons.

Canning's first speech was a distinct success.  He was thought by some critics to have imitated
too closely the magnificent rhetorical style of Burke, but the exquisite voice and the noble
elocution of Canning were all his own and certainly could not have been improved by any imitation
of the voice and manner of Burke.  Many of Canning's friends took it for granted that the young
member would ally himself with the Whig Opposition, but Canning at once presented himself as
the devoted follower of Pitt.  Canning was afterwards the foremost among the creators of the
Anti-Jacobin, a famous satirical periodical set up to throw ridicule on the principles and
sentiments of the French Revolution, and of all those who encouraged its levelling theories
or who aped its exalted professions of {34} humanity and of universal brotherhood.  Canning
made his way rapidly in public life, and became an Under-Secretary of State three years after
his election to the House of Commons.  His next appointment was that of Treasurer to the Navy,
and in 1807 he became Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.  A quarrel began between him
and Lord Castlereagh, one of his colleagues, arising out of the unfortunate Walcheren expedition,
and the quarrel resulted in a duel, after the fashion of the day, in which Canning received
a wound.

[Sidenote: 1822--Canning and the governorship of India]

The policy of Castlereagh made as strong a contrast with the policy of Canning as even the
contrast which was brought under the notice of every listener by the Parliamentary speeches
of the two men.  Canning was master of a polished eloquence which, at the time, had no rival
in either House of Parliament.  Castlereagh was one of the most singular and striking illustrations
of the fact that a man may sometimes become a power in the House of Commons without the slightest
gift of eloquence. Canning was a master of phrase, tone, and gesture.  Castlereagh's language
was commonplace, uncouth, and sometimes even ridiculous, and it happened only too often that
in his anxiety to get his words out he became positively inarticulate.  His policy represented
the ideas of the Holy Alliance in their narrowest and most reactionary meaning; while Canning,
although entirely opposed to the principles of mere revolution, had an utter contempt for the
notion that a conclave of European sovereigns could lay down limits and laws for the growth
and the government of all the European nationalities.  The policy of Castlereagh has long since
ceased to have any believers even among the advisers of autocratic sovereigns, while the policy
of Canning is the recognized creed of statesmanship all over the civilized world.

Canning resigned his office as Foreign Secretary in 1809, and was for a short time sent on
a special embassy to the Court of Lisbon.  Then he became President of the Board of Control,
which may be said to have divided at that time the management of our Indian possessions with
the East {35} India Company, and he held this important office for about four years.  Meanwhile
he had resigned his seat for Newport, in the Isle of Wight, and had been elected as representative
of the great and growing port of Liverpool in the House of Commons.  The visitor to Liverpool
at the present day can hardly go far through the great city without meeting some memorial of
the veneration in which the illustrious name of Canning is held by the dwellers on the Mersey.
A vacancy arose in the office of Governor-General of India, and the directors of the East India
Company invited Canning to accept the splendid and commanding position.  Canning at once made
up his mind to close with the offer.  The position would in many ways have suited his genius,
his deep interest in the government of states, and the freshness of his ideas on all subjects
connected with the growth of the Empire.  Moreover, he knew that he had offended the King,
and that George was not a man likely to forgive such an offence, and he thought he had reason
to believe that, for the present at least, there was not much prospect for him of advancement
in English political life. Many of his friends endeavored to persuade him against accepting
a position which would make him an exile from England at a time when England's interests on
the European continent required just such a genius as his to guide her foreign policy, and
they felt sure that the time could not be far distant when he must be invited to resume his
former place in the Administration.  Canning, however, held to his purpose, accepted the offer
of the East India Company, and went to Liverpool in order to take farewell of his constituency
before setting out on his voyage to the scene of his new duties.

