"The principle which has generally obtained in regard to the colleges of this country, of making
them merely introductory to a professional education, is one too important in its connections
and results to be hastily relinquished. The correspondence which usually exists between the
genius of civil governments, and the arrangement of literary institutions, has been very happily
exemplified in our system of schools, rising in regular gradation from the primary to the professional,
and wisely accommodated to the public convenience and necessity. This system, whatever defects
may have existed in some of its practical operations, has been found, on the whole, admirably
suited to the condition of society. Its parts having kept their fair proportions, each one
performing its peculiar office, and all acting and reacting upon each other, it is out of question
that the results of the whole, in the general diffusion of knowledge and elevation of the public
character, have been salutary to a degree unprecedented in the history of the world; and its
general adoption, with modifications according to the different circumstances of society, may
be contemplated as one of the surest pledges of our national prosperity. Apart from the multiplied
facilities of instruction, which upon this system are afforded at the cheapest rate to all
who would enjoy the benefits of education, that spirit of fair and honorable competition, which
is necessarily excited between so many kindred institutions, would seem to insure improvements
proportioned to the means which are afforded them, and prove a check upon those abuses which
have usually attended establishments of more extended influence and less responsibility.

"But it would seem important to the continued success of this system, that its several parts
should still be kept distinct and subordinate. I will not say that they may not subsist harmoniously,
and be conducted usefully upon the same ground. I will not say that an university, sectional
or national, that shall, in its separate colleges and halls, prepare our youth for the various
departments of life, may not consist with the spirit of our civil governments, and be guarded
against the evils which have generally attended establishments so complicate, and of such numerous
resort. However this may be judged, it will be found, I apprehend, the wisdom of our scattered
institutions, to preserve their individuality, and remain true, as to their general regulations,
to the purpose of their foundation. With respect, particularly, to the arrangements of a college,
it would seem not less true than in regard to the efforts of an individual mind, or the operations
of a machine, that however numerous and various these arrangements may be in detail, the most
beneficial results cannot be expected without unity of design. Between that kind of cultivation
and discipline necessary as a foundation for professional eminence, and that which is required
for success in mercantile, mechanical, or agricultural occupation, there is a very natural
and obvious distinction. And not only is it desirable that they who will be successful mainly
as they shall be conversant with books, who require to be learned men, and they whose concern
lies principally in the active business of life, in skill or labor, should have in some respects
a different course of study, but be subjected to the influence of different minds, and examples,
and rules, and scenes, and associations, corresponding to the different relations which they
will sustain. 'Non omnia possumus omnes,' is a proverb applicable both to teachers and to pupils,
and it would forbid the supposition, that minds which act upon others for widely different
purposes, should do it always with the best effect, or that they who are so acted upon, should
not sometimes suffer injury from the inadequate or ill appropriated influence that is exerted
over them.

"But the evils of commingling within the walls of college, and subjecting to the same general
influence, persons or classes, requiring a different preparatory training, would not, probably,
be greater than those which would result from an attempt to carry collegial instruction above
the simple groundwork of the professions, and to accommodate the course of study and discipline
to the future intended course of life. To whatever extent improvement should be carried in
the preparatory schools, of whatever qualifications young men should be possessed, at the usual
time of admission to college, their term of residence here cannot reasonably be thought too
long, nor their facilities too ample, for general elementary cultivation. It were not the worst
of the evil of providing for professional education at college, that the time which should
be devoted to mental preparation would be lost, and young men would go forth into life unfurnished;
but many minds uncertain and vacillating soon wearied with the dry elements of one department,
would presently attempt another and a third, and disgusted, at length, with all, would resign
themselves to a stupefying indolence, or a consuming licentiousness. The examples of other
times, when the learning of universities all had respect to the future political and ecclesiastical
relations of the student, and these institutions became little better than panders to allied
despotism and superstition, may teach us to cultivate our youth in the elements of general
knowledge, and impart vigor and force and freeness to their minds, in the course of sound fundamental
study, before they are permitted to engage in any merely professional acquisitions; to practice
them well on the broad threshold of science, before they are exposed to be blasted or bewildered
by the premature unfolding of its mysteries. They will then go forward, prepared, not merely
to acquire the technicalities of a profession, but to investigate its essential principles;
to avoid those ignes fatui, which so often, with the appearance of truth, mislead and destroy,
and draw out from the depths, the living form of truth itself; and thus contribute to the destined
emancipation of the world from ignorance, and prejudice, and misrule, and the worse influence
of false philosophy. I would not be extreme; but when we consider the controlling influence
of mind of those who are accredited as the teachers and guides of other men, and how important
that this should be an influence of reason, of knowledge, and of truth, and how slowly and
carefully its foundation requires to be laid in the youthful mind, we may well dread to embarrass
the process, either by any accidental impressions and associations, or by prematurely trusting
to its completion. Nor should an exception be claimed even in favor of the Christian ministry.
However desirable that they who contemplate this office should be early qualified for the service
of God, and of their fellow men, yet they may not safely trespass upon college hours, by anticipating
those higher studies, which await them on other grounds.

"I shall be obliged to trespass further upon the time of this assembly, while I glance at a
few particulars connected with the attainment of the single end of a collegial education. It
has been alleged, that the preparatory schools have frequently failed in qualifying the mind
for successful application to the exercises of college. And it has been answered, that college
has sent out into the schools inadequate instructors. The evil which is admitted is probably
on both sides, and an obvious remedy will be found, in stating and rigidly exacting such terms
of matriculation as shall at once bring into requisition the most thorough preparatory instruction,
and provide that such instruction may always be obtained.

"It is evident that, other things being equal, those who, by reason of superior early advantages,
are prepared to enter upon the prescribed exercises of college with more readiness and effect
than others, will ordinarily prosecute and finish their course with proportionably higher reputation.
Indeed, to the want of a thorough initiation into the rudiments of learning may be traced much
of that indolence and fickleness and easy yielding to temptation, by which the mind, untaught
in the labor of successful occupation, and discouraged by the failure of its imprudent efforts,
is presently paralyzed, and lost to every honorable and useful purpose. If then it may be provided
that early instruction shall be more adequate, and the mind of the student shall be prepared
to enter with readiness and effect upon the studies of college, we shall inspire him with that
confidence in his own ability and endeavors which is one of the strongest inducements to exertion,
and shall insure a degree of improvement limited only by his capacity and application. It may
be true, that some of our colleges, by reason of the temptations of poverty, and the zeal of
competition, accommodating themselves to the convenience of youth, have not increased in their
demands in proportion to the advances which have been already made in elementary instruction.
Such have doubtless mistaken their true interests. It is believed, that those institutions
which shall lead in exacting the most extensive and thorough preparation, will have a distinction
and a patronage proportioned to the benefits which they shall thus render to society.

"It is of equal importance, that our colleges should be furnished with the materials of study.
It was a significant maxim, I think of Juvenal, that it is a great part of learning to know
where learning may be found. For, after ascertaining the place of treasure, it is usual to
feel the kindling desire of acquisition, and the mind at once receives a corresponding impulse
to exertion. The man who has wasted his best days in mental inaction, may feel himself so humbled
amidst the productions of genius and learning, which have not instructed him, and instruments,
of which he knows not the use, and specimens and models whose properties and beauties he cannot
distinguish, that he will wish rather to retreat and forget his poverty, in the gratifications
of inferior appetite. But, on these same scenes, the fires of youthful unprostituted ambition
glow with a new intensity, and the mind, here waking to the consciousness of its own energies,
aspires to the elevation and dignity for which it is designed. The well stored library and
philosophical room and cabinet, create an atmosphere, in which it acts with an unwonted freedom
and force, and strengthens itself for the high and laborious service to which it is devoted.

"But, apart from the influence of such scenes and their associations, there are more palpable
reasons, which especially at this day, call for a great increase of books and apparatus in
our literary institutions.

"The time has been, when a few worn out text books, descending from one generation of students
to another, were thought sufficient for the purposes of a liberal education. But, in that wider
range of investigation, to which the mind is now directed, in all departments of study, every
source of information requires to be laid open. It is not the lesson from a single author,
that is alone sufficient to be committed, but the subject, of which possibly a score have treated,
that requires to be examined and understood. And neither can the teacher nor the student feel
himself adequate to the services before him while any valuable authority, on the broad field
of his inquiries, is not accessible, or any means of illustration are unattempted. But these
facilities are clearly beyond the resources of individuals, and however voluntary associations
of students may, to some extent, compensate for private inability, there is a point beyond
which public sentiment declares this to be a burden; and it demands that the institutions themselves,
which proffer the benefits of education, should supply the means by which this end is to be
attained. The question between different places of education, is coming to be decided, more
frequently, by reference to the comparative advantages which they afford in this respect; and,
however it may be necessary that a college should hold out some show of other accommodation,
yet neither the convenience of its situation, nor the splendor of its edifices, nor the number
and variety of its departments and instructors, will be held in estimation, without corresponding
advantages for an extended course of study.

"In regard to a course of study, it were almost adventurous for one without the advantages
of experience on this subject, to remark beyond what is already obvious, that it should be
simply accommodated to the most perfect discipline and instruction of the mind. And yet, perhaps,
it were more presumptuous to suppose, that improvement in this respect has already reached
its limits. The changes which have taken place, and are still occurring in the methods of instruction,
at the preparatory schools, may be hoped so far to hasten the development and strengthening
of the intellectual powers as that the student may come, at an earlier period of his college
course, to that class of studies which call more immediately for the use of reason, and give
it direction in its inquiries after truth. The impulse which the mind receives from an acquaintance
with its own powers, and their application to some branches of intellectual philosophy, is
a matter of general experience. Every one recollects the pleasure of his first acquisitions
in this department of study, and the ardor with which he thenceforth aspired to higher attainments.
He breathed a free air, he went forward with a new confidence, and his application to all the
duties before him became more easy and more successful. If, then, we might, almost on the threshold
of a public education, habituate the mind to itself, and aid it in some of the more simple
essays of its own powers, it would seem, that we should prepare it for the readier perception
of classic beauties, and for mastering more effectually the elements of mathematical, political,
and moral science. Study in every department ceases to be a mechanical process, when the mind
is thus accustomed, and then we have assurance that study will be a pleasure, and that what
becomes a pleasure will be gain and glory.

"If it were asked, whether any branch of college study might be spared, few, probably, would
be ready to affirm. However, in the zeal of innovation, the utility of classical learning has
been decried, it is not probable that the name of scholar will ever be awarded to one who has
not loved to spend his days and nights upon the pages of antiquity, nor drunk deep from these
original sources of taste, and genius, and philosophy. We believe it has rarely, if ever happened,
that one has attained to a symmetry and finished excellency of character, in the varieties
of any one department of learning, who has not, at least in the early stages of education,
received inspiration from the oratory and poetry of other times, when language was an index
to the passions and emotions of the soul, and conveyed, not the names only, but the properties
of things, the qualities of mind. The very vigor of thought and power of eloquence with which
many, with a parricidal spirit, have assailed the literature of antiquity, were borrowed from
its stores; and should their schemes of reform prevail we might fear that other generations,
inheriting only their prejudices, without their refinement, would degenerate into comparative
barbarism, and with that of learning, that the light also of religion would be extinguished.
It is the worst of this spirit that it would seal up the treasures of heavenly wisdom, and
take away the armor in which we trust for assailing the enemies of God. And however it may
be with other interests, we will hope that in this respect, as well as ordinarily in all others,
the pulpit will prove a defence of the true interests of man. But, it may be questioned whether,
if the field of labor were narrowed, and instead of gleaning as is usually done, from many
writers, the student should be more thorough in his application to a few of the most approved,
the end of this branch of study would not be as fully answered, and opportunity be afforded
for greater acquisitions in the literature of modern times. It has been said, particularly
in regard to our own language and country, that the style of writing, of conversation, and
of public speaking, among educated men, generally fails of that accuracy, propriety, and refinement
which might reasonably be expected from their course of preparatory and professional study.
The college is undoubtedly the place where the evil, if it be admitted to exist, should be
corrected. And its correction would be found in the greater progress of the student, beyond
the task of composition, to the examination of the most approved vernacular writings. It is
not so much by his own imperfect attempts as by familiarity with the nature and finished productions
of other minds, that he may expect to facilitate his conceptions, to extend the circle of his
thoughts, to correct his judgment and his taste, and thus increase the readiness, propriety,
and effect of his future efforts. A course of thorough reading and comparison of accredited
authors, in connection with occasional researches into the history of English literature and
essays at higher criticism, will probably do more towards the accomplishment of polite scholarship
than all the principles of grammar and rhetoric, however perfectly understood, without opportunity
for such an application.

"The actual instruction of college, and its general economy and administration, are subjects,
doubtless, of yet higher consideration. But, in view of the recent measures of the Trustees
of this institution, to advance its interests in these particulars, remarks in this place,
and on this occasion, might be judged unseasonable. I shall be permitted, however, just to
allude to these measures, as an evidence of the deep solicitude with which the institution
is cherished by its constituted guardians, and as a pledge, that in all things which relate
to its modes of government, discipline, and instruction, they will not be backward to provide
that it shall answer the great purposes of its foundation. And in view of the success which
already appears to have attended the application of these measures, through the zeal of the
Faculty of the college, and the commendable spirit of the students, the hope may well be encouraged,
that this venerable seat of learning, which has been the care of Almighty God, will not fail
of His blessing, nor want the confidence, affection, and patronage of an intelligent community.

"But, what is more necessary than any other means and advantages, and without which the growth
of any literary institution were to be deprecated as one of the greatest of evils, is the pervading
influence of moral and religious principle. The moral dangers of a college life have probably
been sometimes enhanced in the representation. When the arrangement of duties is such as to
require of the student as much use of time, and a habit of application as constant and persevering,
as are ordinarily expected in the employments of active life, he would seem, so far, in respect
to his principles and his habits, to have an advantage over others, inasmuch as intellectual
labor is, in itself, better suited to refine and elevate the affections, and removes one farther
from the scenes and objects of temptation. If we add to this, that the student is usually under
a more uniform superintendence, and comes more frequently and habitually under the influence
of moral precept and religious observances, and that the fact of his supposed dangers makes
him more a subject of parental solicitude and counsel and prayer, his advantage is still proportionably
increased. And in respect to those institutions where these benefits are in the highest degree
enjoined, it is believed that the amount of injury to the youth who frequent them is less than
that which is suffered by any equal number, in any other sphere of occupation.

