    "The establishment of extensive manufactories, and the
    introduction of power-looms and spinning-jennies, has nearly
    destroyed the usual household manufactures, and put our
    other Jennies out of employment. Our ears are seldom greeted
    now a days in the farmer's cottage with the flying of the
    shuttle, or the deep base of the spinning wheel. We confess
    that we have looked upon their departure with a strong
    feeling of regret; and deem it no small abatement of the
    advantages, which the establishment of extensive
    manufactures has obviously yielded to the country, that it
    removes the daughter from the shelter and security of the
    paternal roof, and places her in a situation, which
    certainly furnishes no means of qualifying her for the
    proper department of woman; to preside over our domestic
    establishments; to perform her part in the joint labors of
    the household; and to know how and when and where to use,
    prepare, and to apply to the best advantage within doors,
    the products of man's labor without doors. Many occupations
    of female industry, strictly domestic however, of a healthy
    and agreeable nature, are constantly presenting themselves,
    so that there is little danger that the race of industrious
    women, and accomplished wives, at least among the country
    girls, will soon be extinct; and the silk culture, fast
    gaining ground among us, promises to furnish an unexhausted
    resource and a profitable employment of female labor."

                                        Salem Observer, 1834.

       *       *       *       *       *

In one of the numbers of the London "Spectator" for 1884 is an interesting account of an attempt
to revive the spinning-wheel industry in England, through the kind offices of Mr. Albert Flemming,
for the purpose of helping poor women too old or blind to leave their homes for other work.
After considerable difficulty, a wheel was discovered among a store of ancient articles; but
no one at first knew how to use it. Spinning was one of the lost arts, apparently. At length,
however, an old woman of eighty-four was found who understood the use of the wheel. She taught
Mr. Flemming how to spin. A few more old wheels were found, and some new ones constructed.
Then it was some time before a loom could be discovered. Eventually this was accomplished,
and the art of weaving taught. The account says that twenty women who were unable otherwise
to obtain a living, are now busily at work, happy in being able to provide for their families.
They make, it may be added, a good strong, honest linen, specimens of which have been presented
to Mr. Ruskin. This account is substantially from the "Living Age," Nov. 1, 1884.

            University Press: John Wilson & Son, Cambridge.

    These are mainly excerpts from Newspapers. Original spelling was
    not corrected.