Then I explained to him quite clearly what I should conceive my duty to be if I were in his
place. He assented warmly to my view. I added that if there were any difficulties in his mind
I should advise him to lay the case before my dear friend the Reverend George Alexanderson,
of the Irving Place Church, who was an extraordinarily sensible and human clergyman, and to
whom I would give him a personal letter stating the facts. Upon this we shook hands heartily,
and I went back to Peggy on Thursday morning.

The house was delightfully quiet, and she was perfection as a hostess. I never passed a pleasanter
afternoon. But the evening was interrupted by the arrival of Stillman Dane, who said that he
had run up to say good-bye. That seemed quite polite and proper, so I begged them to excuse
me, while I went into the den to write some letters. They were long letters.

The next morning Peggy was evidently flustered, but divinely radiant. She said that Mr. Dane
had asked her to go driving with him--would that be all right? I told her that I was sure it
was perfectly right, but if they went far they would find me gone when they returned, for I
had changed my mind and was going down to New York to see the voyagers off. At this Peggy looked
at me with tears sparkling in the edge of her smile. Then she put her arms around my neck.
"Good-bye," she whispered, "good-bye! YOU'RE A DANDY TOO! Give mother my love--and THAT--and
THAT--and THAT!"

"Well, my dear," I answered, "I rather prefer to keep THOSE for myself. But I'll give her your
message. And mind this--don't you do anything unless you really want to do it with all your
heart. God bless you! Promise?"

"I promise, WITH ALL MY HEART," said she, and then her soft arms were unloosed from my neck
and she ran up-stairs. That was the last word I heard from Peggy Talbert.

On Saturday morning all the rest of us were on the deck of the Chromatic by half-past nine.
The usual farewell performance was in progress. Charles Edward was expressing some irritation
and anxiety over the lateness of Stillman Dane, when that young man quietly emerged from the
music-room, with Peggy beside him in the demurest little travelling suit with an immense breast-plate
of white violets. Tom Price was the first to recover his voice.

"Peggy!" he cried; "Peggy, by all that's holy!"

"Excuse me," I said, "Mr. and Mrs. Stillman Dane! And I must firmly request every one except
Mr. and Mrs. Talbert, senior, to come with me at once to see the second steward about the seats
in the dining-saloon."

We got a good place at the end of the pier to watch the big boat swing out into the river.
She went very slowly at first, then with astonishing quickness. Charles Edward and Lorraine
were standing on the hurricane-deck, Peggy close beside them. Dane had given her his walking-stick,
and she had tied her handkerchief to the handle. She was standing up on a chair, with one of
his hands to steady her. Her hat had slipped back on her head. The last thing that we could
distinguish on the ship was that brave little girl, her red hair like an aureole, waving her
flag of victory and peace. "And now," said Maria, as we turned away, "I have a lovely plan.
We are all going together to our hotel to have lunch, and after that to the matinee at--"

I knew it was rude to interrupt, but I could not help it.

"Pardon me, dear Maria," I said, "but you have not got it quite right. You and Tom are going
to escort Alice and Billy to Eastridge, with such diversions by the way as seem to you appropriate.
Your father and mother are going to lunch with me at Delmonico's--but we don't want the whole
family."