Six hours later, only waiting for sunrise, Captain Servadac set himself in movement again to
renew his investigations. At this spot the shore, that hitherto had been running in a southeasterly
direction, turned abruptly to the north, being no longer formed by the natural bank of the
Shelif, but consisting of an absolutely new coast-line. No land was in sight. Nothing could
be seen of Orleansville, which ought to have been about six miles to the southwest; and Ben
Zoof, who had mounted the highest point of view attainable, could distinguish sea, and nothing
but sea, to the farthest horizon.

Quitting their encampment and riding on, the bewildered explorers kept close to the new shore.
This, since it had ceased to be formed by the original river bank, had considerably altered
its aspect. Frequent landslips occurred, and in many places deep chasms rifted the ground;
great gaps furrowed the fields, and trees, half uprooted, overhung the water, remarkable by
the fantastic distortions of their gnarled trunks, looking as though they had been chopped
by a hatchet.

The sinuosities of the coast line, alternately gully and headland, had the effect of making
a devious progress for the travelers, and at sunset, although they had accomplished more than
twenty miles, they had only just arrived at the foot of the Merdeyah Mountains, which, before
the cataclysm, had formed the extremity of the chain of the Little Atlas. The ridge, however,
had been violently ruptured, and now rose perpendicularly from the water.

On the following morning Servadac and Ben Zoof traversed one of the mountain gorges; and next,
in order to make a more thorough acquaintance with the limits and condition of the section
of Algerian territory of which they seemed to be left as the sole occupants, they dismounted,
and proceeded on foot to the summit of one of the highest peaks. From this elevation they ascertained
that from the base of the Merdeyah to the Mediterranean, a distance of about eighteen miles,
a new coast line had come into existence; no land was visible in any direction; no isthmus
existed to form a connecting link with the territory of Tenes, which had entirely disappeared.
The result was that Captain Servadac was driven to the irresistible conclusion that the tract
of land which he had been surveying was not, as he had at first imagined, a peninsula; it was
actually an island.

Strictly speaking, this island was quadrilateral, but the sides were so irregular that it was
much more nearly a triangle, the comparison of the sides exhibiting these proportions: The
section of the right bank of the Shelif, seventy-two miles; the southern boundary from the
Shelif to the chain of the Little Atlas, twenty-one miles; from the Little Atlas to the Mediterranean,
eighteen miles; and sixty miles of the shore of the Mediterranean itself, making in all an
entire circumference of about 171 miles.

"What does it all mean?" exclaimed the captain, every hour growing more and more bewildered.

"The will of Providence, and we must submit," replied Ben Zoof, calm and undisturbed. With
this reflection, the two men silently descended the mountain and remounted their horses. Before
evening they had reached the Mediterranean. On their road they failed to discern a vestige
of the little town of Montenotte; like Tenes, of which not so much as a ruined cottage was
visible on the horizon, it seemed to be annihilated.

On the following day, the 6th of January, the two men made a forced march along the coast of
the Mediterranean, which they found less altered than the captain had at first supposed; but
four villages had entirely disappeared, and the headlands, unable to resist the shock of the
convulsion, had been detached from the mainland.

The circuit of the island had been now completed, and the explorers, after a period of sixty
hours, found themselves once more beside the ruins of their gourbi. Five days, or what, according
to the established order of things, would have been two days and a half, had been occupied
in tracing the boundaries of their new domain; and they had ascertained beyond a doubt that
they were the sole human inhabitants left upon the island.

"Well, sir, here you are, Governor General of Algeria!" exclaimed Ben Zoof, as they reached
the gourbi.

"With not a soul to govern," gloomily rejoined the captain.

"How so? Do you not reckon me?"

"Pshaw! Ben Zoof, what are you?"

"What am I? Why, I am the population."

The captain deigned no reply, but, muttering some expressions of regret for the fruitless trouble
he had taken about his rondo, betook himself to rest.

CHAPTER VII. BEN ZOOF WATCHES IN VAIN

In a few minutes the governor general and his population were asleep. The gourbi being in ruins,
they were obliged to put up with the best accommodation they could find in the adjacent erection.
It must be owned that the captain's slumbers were by no means sound; he was agitated by the
consciousness that he had hitherto been unable to account for his strange experiences by any
reasonable theory. Though far from being advanced in the knowledge of natural philosophy, he
had been instructed, to a certain degree, in its elementary principles; and, by an effort of
memory, he managed to recall some general laws which he had almost forgotten. He could understand
that an altered inclination of the earth's axis with regard to the ecliptic would introduce
a change of position in the cardinal points, and bring about a displacement of the sea; but
the hypothesis entirely failed to account, either for the shortening of the days, or for the
diminution in the pressure of the atmosphere. He felt that his judgment was utterly baffled;
his only remaining hope was that the chain of marvels was not yet complete, and that something
farther might throw some light upon the mystery.

Ben Zoof's first care on the following morning was to provide a good breakfast. To use his
own phrase, he was as hungry as the whole population of three million Algerians, of whom he
was the representative, and he must have enough to eat. The catastrophe which had overwhelmed
the country had left a dozen eggs uninjured, and upon these, with a good dish of his famous
couscous, he hoped that he and his master might have a sufficiently substantial meal. The stove
was ready for use, the copper skillet was as bright as hands could make it, and the beads of
condensed steam upon the surface of a large stone al-caraza gave evidence that it was supplied
with water. Ben Zoof at once lighted a fire, singing all the time, according to his wont, a
snatch of an old military refrain.

Ever on the lookout for fresh phenomena, Captain Servadac watched the preparations with a curious
eye. It struck him that perhaps the air, in its strangely modified condition, would fail to
supply sufficient oxygen, and that the stove, in consequence, might not fulfill its function.
But no; the fire was lighted just as usual, and fanned into vigor by Ben Zoof applying his
mouth in lieu of bellows, and a bright flame started up from the midst of the twigs and coal.
The skillet was duly set upon the stove, and Ben Zoof was prepared to wait awhile for the water
to boil. Taking up the eggs, he was surprised to notice that they hardly weighed more than
they would if they had been mere shells; but he was still more surprised when he saw that before
the water had been two minutes over the fire it was at full boil.

"By jingo!" he exclaimed, "a precious hot fire!"

Servadac reflected. "It cannot be that the fire is hotter," he said, "the peculiarity must
be in the water." And taking down a centigrade thermometer, which hung upon the wall, he plunged
it into the skillet. Instead of 100 degrees, the instrument registered only 66 degrees.

"Take my advice, Ben Zoof," he said; "leave your eggs in the saucepan a good quarter of an hour."

"Boil them hard! That will never do," objected the orderly.

"You will not find them hard, my good fellow. Trust me, we shall be able to dip our sippets
into the yolks easily enough."

The captain was quite right in his conjecture, that this new phenomenon was caused by a diminution
in the pressure of the atmosphere. Water boiling at a temperature of 66 degrees was itself
an evidence that the column of air above the earth's surface had become reduced by one-third
of its altitude. The identical phenomenon would have occurred at the summit of a mountain 35,000
feet high; and had Servadac been in possession of a barometer, he would have immediately discovered
the fact that only now for the first time, as the result of experiment, revealed itself to
him--a fact, moreover, which accounted for the compression of the blood-vessels which both
he and Ben Zoof had experienced, as well as for the attenuation of their voices and their accelerated
breathing. "And yet," he argued with himself, "if our encampment has been projected to so great
an elevation, how is it that the sea remains at its proper level?"

Once again Hector Servadac, though capable of tracing consequences, felt himself totally at
a loss to comprehend their cause; hence his agitation and bewilderment!

After their prolonged immersion in the boiling water, the eggs were found to be only just sufficiently
cooked; the couscous was very much in the same condition; and Ben Zoof came to the conclusion
that in future he must be careful to commence his culinary operations an hour earlier. He was
rejoiced at last to help his master, who, in spite of his perplexed preoccupation, seemed to
have a very fair appetite for breakfast.

"Well, captain?" said Ben Zoof presently, such being his ordinary way of opening conversation.

"Well, Ben Zoof?" was the captain's invariable response to his servant's formula.

"What are we to do now, sir?"

"We can only for the present wait patiently where we are. We are encamped upon an island, and
therefore we can only be rescued by sea."

"But do you suppose that any of our friends are still alive?" asked Ben Zoof.

"Oh, I think we must indulge the hope that this catastrophe has not extended far. We must trust
that it has limited its mischief to some small portion of the Algerian coast, and that our
friends are all alive and well. No doubt the governor general will be anxious to investigate
the full extent of the damage, and will send a vessel from Algiers to explore. It is not likely
that we shall be forgotten. What, then, you have to do, Ben Zoof, is to keep a sharp lookout,
and to be ready, in case a vessel should appear, to make signals at once."

"But if no vessel should appear!" sighed the orderly.

"Then we must build a boat, and go in search of those who do not come in search of us."

"Very good. But what sort of a sailor are you?"

"Everyone can be a sailor when he must," said Servadac calmly.

Ben Zoof said no more. For several succeeding days he scanned the horizon unintermittently
with his telescope. His watching was in vain. No ship appeared upon the desert sea. "By the
name of a Kabyle!" he broke out impatiently, "his Excellency is grossly negligent!"

Although the days and nights had become reduced from twenty-four hours to twelve, Captain Servadac
would not accept the new condition of things, but resolved to adhere to the computations of
the old calendar. Notwithstanding, therefore, that the sun had risen and set twelve times since
the commencement of the new year, he persisted in calling the following day the 6th of January.
His watch enabled him to keep an accurate account of the passing hours.

In the course of his life, Ben Zoof had read a few books. After pondering one day, he said:
"It seems to me, captain, that you have turned into Robinson Crusoe, and that I am your man
Friday. I hope I have not become a negro."

"No," replied the captain. "Your complexion isn't the fairest in the world, but you are not
black yet."

"Well, I had much sooner be a white Friday than a black one," rejoined Ben Zoof.

Still no ship appeared; and Captain Servadac, after the example of all previous Crusoes, began
to consider it advisable to investigate the resources of his domain. The new territory of which
he had become the monarch he named Gourbi Island. It had a superficial area of about nine hundred
square miles. Bullocks, cows, goats, and sheep existed in considerable numbers; and as there
seemed already to be an abundance of game, it was hardly likely that a future supply would
fail them. The condition of the cereals was such as to promise a fine ingathering of wheat,
maize, and rice; so that for the governor and his population, with their two horses, not only
was there ample provision, but even if other human inhabitants besides themselves should yet
be discovered, there was not the remotest prospect of any of them perishing by starvation.

From the 6th to the 13th of January the rain came down in torrents; and, what was quite an
unusual occurrence at this season of the year, several heavy storms broke over the island.
In spite, however, of the continual downfall, the heavens still remained veiled in cloud. Servadac,
moreover, did not fail to observe that for the season the temperature was unusually high; and,
as a matter still more surprising, that it kept steadily increasing, as though the earth were
gradually and continuously approximating to the sun. In proportion to the rise of temperature,
the light also assumed greater intensity; and if it had not been for the screen of vapor interposed
between the sky and the island, the irradiation which would have illumined all terrestrial
objects would have been vivid beyond all precedent.

But neither sun, moon, nor star ever appeared; and Servadac's irritation and annoyance at being
unable to identify any one point of the firmament may be more readily imagined than described.
On one occasion Ben Zoof endeavored to mitigate his master's impatience by exhorting him to
assume the resignation, even if he did not feel the indifference, which he himself experienced;
but his advice was received with so angry a rebuff that he retired in all haste, abashed, to
résumé his watchman's duty, which he performed with exemplary perseverance. Day and night,
with the shortest possible intervals of rest, despite wind, rain, and storm, he mounted guard
upon the cliff--but all in vain. Not a speck appeared upon the desolate horizon. To say the
truth, no vessel could have stood against the weather. The hurricane raged with tremendous
fury, and the waves rose to a height that seemed to defy calculation. Never, even in the second
era of creation, when, under the influence of internal heat, the waters rose in vapor to descend
in deluge back upon the world, could meteorological phenomena have been developed with more
impressive intensity.

But by the night of the 13th the tempest appeared to have spent its fury; the wind dropped;
the rain ceased as if by a spell; and Servadac, who for the last six days had confined himself
to the shelter of his roof, hastened to join Ben Zoof at his post upon the cliff. Now, he thought,
there might be a chance of solving his perplexity; perhaps now the huge disc, of which he had
had an imperfect glimpse on the night of the 31st of December, might again reveal itself; at
any rate, he hoped for an opportunity of observing the constellations in a clear firmament above.

The night was magnificent. Not a cloud dimmed the luster of the stars, which spangled the heavens
in surpassing brilliancy, and several nebulae which hitherto no astronomer had been able to
discern without the aid of a telescope were clearly visible to the naked eye.

By a natural impulse, Servadac's first thought was to observe the position of the pole-star.
It was in sight, but so near to the horizon as to suggest the utter impossibility of its being
any longer the central pivot of the sidereal system; it occupied a position through which it
was out of the question that the axis of the earth indefinitely prolonged could ever pass.
In his impression he was more thoroughly confirmed when, an hour later, he noticed that the
star had approached still nearer the horizon, as though it had belonged to one of the zodiacal
constellations.

The pole-star being manifestly thus displaced, it remained to be discovered whether any other
of the celestial bodies had become a fixed center around which the constellations made their
apparent daily revolutions. To the solution of this problem Servadac applied himself with the
most thoughtful diligence. After patient observation, he satisfied himself that the required
conditions were answered by a certain star that was stationary not far from the horizon. This
was Vega, in the constellation Lyra, a star which, according to the precession of the equinoxes,
will take the place of our pole-star 12,000 years hence. The most daring imagination could
not suppose that a period of 12,000 years had been crowded into the space of a fortnight; and
therefore the captain came, as to an easier conclusion, to the opinion that the earth's axis
had been suddenly and immensely shifted; and from the fact that the axis, if produced, would
pass through a point so little removed above the horizon, he deduced the inference that the
Mediterranean must have been transported to the equator.

Lost in bewildering maze of thought, he gazed long and intently upon the heavens. His eyes
wandered from where the tail of the Great Bear, now a zodiacal constellation, was scarcely
visible above the waters, to where the stars of the southern hemisphere were just breaking
on his view. A cry from Ben Zoof recalled him to himself.

"The moon!" shouted the orderly, as though overjoyed at once again beholding what the poet
has called:

     "The kind companion of terrestrial night;"

and he pointed to a disc that was rising at a spot precisely opposite the place where they
would have expected to see the sun. "The moon!" again he cried.

But Captain Servadac could not altogether enter into his servant's enthusiasm. If this were
actually the moon, her distance from the earth must have been increased by some millions of
miles. He was rather disposed to suspect that it was not the earth's satellite at all, but
some planet with its apparent magnitude greatly enlarged by its approximation to the earth.
Taking up the powerful field-glass which he was accustomed to use in his surveying operations,
he proceeded to investigate more carefully the luminous orb. But he failed to trace any of
the lineaments, supposed to resemble a human face, that mark the lunar surface; he failed to
decipher any indications of hill and plain; nor could he make out the aureole of light which
emanates from what astronomers have designated Mount Tycho. "It is not the moon," he said slowly.

"Not the moon?" cried Ben Zoof. "Why not?"

"It is not the moon," again affirmed the captain.

"Why not?" repeated Ben Zoof, unwilling to renounce his first impression.

"Because there is a small satellite in attendance." And the captain drew his servant's attention
to a bright speck, apparently about the size of one of Jupiter's satellites seen through a
moderate telescope, that was clearly visible just within the focus of his glass.

Here, then, was a fresh mystery. The orbit of this planet was assuredly interior to the orbit
of the earth, because it accompanied the sun in its apparent motion; yet it was neither Mercury
nor Venus, because neither one nor the other of these has any satellite at all.

The captain stamped and stamped again with mingled vexation, agitation, and bewilderment. "Confound
it!" he cried, "if this is neither Venus nor Mercury, it must be the moon; but if it is the
moon, whence, in the name of all the gods, has she picked up another moon for herself?"

The captain was in dire perplexity.

CHAPTER VIII. VENUS IN PERILOUS PROXIMITY

The light of the returning sun soon extinguished the glory of the stars, and rendered it necessary
for the captain to postpone his observations. He had sought in vain for further trace of the
huge disc that had so excited his wonder on the 1st, and it seemed most probable that, in its
irregular orbit, it had been carried beyond the range of vision.

The weather was still superb. The wind, after veering to the west, had sunk to a perfect calm.
Pursuing its inverted course, the sun rose and set with undeviating regularity; and the days
and nights were still divided into periods of precisely six hours each--a sure proof that the
sun remained close to the new equator which manifestly passed through Gourbi Island.

Meanwhile the temperature was steadily increasing. The captain kept his thermometer close at
hand where he could repeatedly consult it, and on the 15th he found that it registered 50 degrees
centigrade in the shade.

No attempt had been made to rebuild the gourbi, but the captain and Ben Zoof managed to make
up quarters sufficiently comfortable in the principal apartment of the adjoining structure,
where the stone walls, that at first afforded a refuge from the torrents of rain, now formed
an equally acceptable shelter from the burning sun. The heat was becoming insufferable, surpassing
the heat of Senegal and other equatorial regions; not a cloud ever tempered the intensity of
the solar rays; and unless some modification ensued, it seemed inevitable that all vegetation
should become scorched and burnt off from the face of the island.

In spite, however, of the profuse perspirations from which he suffered, Ben Zoof, constant
to his principles, expressed no surprise at the unwonted heat. No remonstrances from his master
could induce him to abandon his watch from the cliff. To withstand the vertical beams of that
noontide sun would seem to require a skin of brass and a brain of adamant; but yet, hour after
hour, he would remain conscientiously scanning the surface of the Mediterranean, which, calm
and deserted, lay outstretched before him. On one occasion, Servadac, in reference to his orderly's
indomitable perseverance, happened to remark that he thought he must have been born in the
heart of equatorial Africa; to which Ben Zoof replied, with the utmost dignity, that he was
born at Montmartre, which was all the same. The worthy fellow was unwilling to own that, even
in the matter of heat, the tropics could in any way surpass his own much-loved home.

This unprecedented temperature very soon began to take effect upon the products of the soil.
The sap rose rapidly in the trees, so that in the course of a few days buds, leaves, flowers,
and fruit had come to full maturity. It was the same with the cereals; wheat and maize sprouted
and ripened as if by magic, and for a while a rank and luxuriant pasturage clothed the meadows.
Summer and autumn seemed blended into one. If Captain Servadac had been more deeply versed
in astronomy, he would perhaps have been able to bring to bear his knowledge that if the axis
of the earth, as everything seemed to indicate, now formed a right angle with the plane of
the ecliptic, her various seasons, like those of the planet Jupiter, would become limited to
certain zones, in which they would remain invariable. But even if he had understood the rationale
of the change, the convulsion that had brought it about would have been as much a mystery as ever.

The precocity of vegetation caused some embarrassment. The time for the corn and fruit harvest
had fallen simultaneously with that of the haymaking; and as the extreme heat precluded any
prolonged exertions, it was evident "the population" of the island would find it difficult
to provide the necessary amount of labor. Not that the prospect gave them much concern: the
provisions of the gourbi were still far from exhausted, and now that the roughness of the weather
had so happily subsided, they had every encouragement to hope that a ship of some sort would
soon appear. Not only was that part of the Mediterranean systematically frequented by the government
steamers that watched the coast, but vessels of all nations were constantly cruising off the shore.

In spite, however, of all their sanguine speculations, no ship appeared. Ben Zoof admitted
the necessity of extemporizing a kind of parasol for himself, otherwise he must literally have
been roasted to death upon the exposed summit of the cliff.

Meanwhile, Servadac was doing his utmost--it must be acknowledged, with indifferent success--to
recall the lessons of his school-days. He would plunge into the wildest speculations in his
endeavors to unravel the difficulties of the new situation, and struggled into a kind of conviction
that if there had been a change of manner in the earth's rotation on her axis, there would
be a corresponding change in her revolution round the sun, which would involve the consequence
of the length of the year being either diminished or increased.

Independently of the increased and increasing heat, there was another very conclusive demonstration
that the earth had thus suddenly approximated towards the sun. The diameter of the solar disc
was now exactly twice what it ordinarily looks to the naked eye; in fact, it was precisely
such as it would appear to an observer on the surface of the planet Venus. The most obvious
inference would therefore be that the earth's distance from the sun had been diminished from
91,000,000 to 66,000,000 miles. If the just equilibrium of the earth had thus been destroyed,
and should this diminution of distance still continue, would there not be reason to fear that
the terrestrial world would be carried onwards to actual contact with the sun, which must result
in its total annihilation?

The continuance of the splendid weather afforded Servadac every facility for observing the
heavens. Night after night, constellations in their beauty lay stretched before his eyes--an
alphabet which, to his mortification, not to say his rage, he was unable to decipher. In the
apparent dimensions of the fixed stars, in their distance, in their relative position with
regard to each other, he could observe no change. Although it is established that our sun is
approaching the constellation of Hercules at the rate of more than 126,000,000 miles a year,
and although Arcturus is traveling through space at the rate of fifty-four miles a second--three
times faster than the earth goes round the sun,--yet such is the remoteness of those stars
that no appreciable change is evident to the senses. The fixed stars taught him nothing.

Far otherwise was it with the planets. The orbits of Venus and Mercury are within the orbit
of the earth, Venus rotating at an average distance of 66,130,000 miles from the sun, and Mercury
at that of 35,393,000. After pondering long, and as profoundly as he could, upon these figures,
Captain Servadac came to the conclusion that, as the earth was now receiving about double the
amount of light and heat that it had been receiving before the catastrophe, it was receiving
about the same as the planet Venus; he was driven, therefore, to the estimate of the measure
in which the earth must have approximated to the sun, a deduction in which he was confirmed
when the opportunity came for him to observe Venus herself in the splendid proportions that
she now assumed.

That magnificent planet which--as Phosphorus or Lucifer, Hesperus or Vesper, the evening star,
the morning star, or the shepherd's star--has never failed to attract the rapturous admiration
of the most indifferent observers, here revealed herself with unprecedented glory, exhibiting
all the phases of a lustrous moon in miniature. Various indentations in the outline of its
crescent showed that the solar beams were refracted into regions of its surface where the sun
had already set, and proved, beyond a doubt, that the planet had an atmosphere of her own;
and certain luminous points projecting from the crescent as plainly marked the existence of
mountains. As the result of Servadac's computations, he formed the opinion that Venus could
hardly be at a greater distance than 6,000,000 miles from the earth.

"And a very safe distance, too," said Ben Zoof, when his master told him the conclusion at
which he had arrived.

"All very well for two armies, but for a couple of planets not quite so safe, perhaps, as you
may imagine. It is my impression that it is more than likely we may run foul of Venus," said
the captain.

"Plenty of air and water there, sir?" inquired the orderly.

"Yes; as far as I can tell, plenty," replied Servadac.

"Then why shouldn't we go and visit Venus?"

Servadac did his best to explain that as the two planets were of about equal volume, and were
traveling with great velocity in opposite directions, any collision between them must be attended
with the most disastrous consequences to one or both of them. But Ben Zoof failed to see that,
even at the worst, the catastrophe could be much more serious than the collision of two railway
trains.

The captain became exasperated. "You idiot!" he angrily exclaimed; "cannot you understand that
the planets are traveling a thousand times faster than the fastest express, and that if they
meet, either one or the other must be destroyed? What would become of your darling Montmartre
then?"

The captain had touched a tender chord. For a moment Ben Zoof stood with clenched teeth and
contracted muscles; then, in a voice of real concern, he inquired whether anything could be
done to avert the calamity.

"Nothing whatever; so you may go about your own business," was the captain's brusque rejoinder.

All discomfited and bewildered, Ben Zoof retired without a word.

During the ensuing days the distance between the two planets continued to decrease, and it
became more and more obvious that the earth, on her new orbit, was about to cross the orbit
of Venus. Throughout this time the earth had been making a perceptible approach towards Mercury,
and that planet--which is rarely visible to the naked eye, and then only at what are termed
the periods of its greatest eastern and western elongations--now appeared in all its splendor.
It amply justified the epithet of "sparkling" which the ancients were accustomed to confer
upon it, and could scarcely fail to awaken a new interest. The periodic recurrence of its phases;
its reflection of the sun's rays, shedding upon it a light and a heat seven times greater than
that received by the earth; its glacial and its torrid zones, which, on account of the great
inclination of the axis, are scarcely separable; its equatorial bands; its mountains eleven
miles high;--were all subjects of observation worthy of the most studious regard.

But no danger was to be apprehended from Mercury; with Venus only did collision appear imminent.
By the 18th of January the distance between that planet and the earth had become reduced to
between two and three millions of miles, and the intensity of its light cast heavy shadows
from all terrestrial objects. It might be observed to turn upon its own axis in twenty-three
hours twenty-one minutes--an evidence, from the unaltered duration of its days, that the planet
had not shared in the disturbance. On its disc the clouds formed from its atmospheric vapor
were plainly perceptible, as also were the seven spots, which, according to Bianchini, are
a chain of seas. It was now visible in broad daylight. Buonaparte, when under the Directory,
once had his attention called to Venus at noon, and immediately hailed it joyfully, recognizing
it as his own peculiar star in the ascendant. Captain Servadac, it may well be imagined, did
not experience the same gratifying emotion.

On the 20th, the distance between the two bodies had again sensibly diminished. The captain
had ceased to be surprised that no vessel had been sent to rescue himself and his companion
from their strange imprisonment; the governor general and the minister of war were doubtless
far differently occupied, and their interests far otherwise engrossed. What sensational articles,
he thought, must now be teeming to the newspapers! What crowds must be flocking to the churches!
The end of the world approaching! the great climax close at hand! Two days more, and the earth,
shivered into a myriad atoms, would be lost in boundless space!

These dire forebodings, however, were not destined to be realized. Gradually the distance between
the two planets began to increase; the planes of their orbits did not coincide, and accordingly
the dreaded catastrophe did not ensue. By the 25th, Venus was sufficiently remote to preclude
any further fear of collision. Ben Zoof gave a sigh of relief when the captain communicated
the glad intelligence.

Their proximity to Venus had been close enough to demonstrate that beyond a doubt that planet
has no moon or satellite such as Cassini, Short, Montaigne of Limoges, Montbarron, and some
other astronomers have imagined to exist. "Had there been such a satellite," said Servadac,
"we might have captured it in passing. But what can be the meaning," he added seriously, "of
all this displacement of the heavenly bodies?"

"What is that great building at Paris, captain, with a top like a cap?" asked Ben Zoof.

"Do you mean the Observatory?"

"Yes, the Observatory. Are there not people living in the Observatory who could explain all this?"

"Very likely; but what of that?"

"Let us be philosophers, and wait patiently until we can hear their explanation."

Servadac smiled. "Do you know what it is to be a philosopher, Ben Zoof?" he asked.

"I am a soldier, sir," was the servant's prompt rejoinder, "and I have learnt to know that
'what can't be cured must be endured.'"

The captain made no reply, but for a time, at least, he desisted from puzzling himself over
matters which he felt he was utterly incompetent to explain. But an event soon afterwards occurred
which awakened his keenest interest.

About nine o'clock on the morning of the 27th, Ben Zoof walked deliberately into his master's
apartment, and, in reply to a question as to what he wanted, announced with the utmost composure
that a ship was in sight.

"A ship!" exclaimed Servadac, starting to his feet. "A ship! Ben Zoof, you donkey! you speak
as unconcernedly as though you were telling me that my dinner was ready."

"Are we not philosophers, captain?" said the orderly.

But the captain was out of hearing.

CHAPTER IX. INQUIRIES UNSATISFIED

Fast as his legs could carry him, Servadac had made his way to the top of the cliff. It was
quite true that a vessel was in sight, hardly more than six miles from the shore; but owing
to the increase in the earth's convexity, and the consequent limitation of the range of vision,
the rigging of the topmasts alone was visible above the water. This was enough, however, to
indicate that the ship was a schooner--an impression that was confirmed when, two hours later,
she came entirely in sight.

"The Dobryna!" exclaimed Servadac, keeping his eye unmoved at his telescope.

"Impossible, sir!" rejoined Ben Zoof; "there are no signs of smoke."

"The Dobryna!" repeated the captain, positively. "She is under sail; but she is Count Timascheff's
yacht."

He was right. If the count were on board, a strange fatality was bringing him to the presence
of his rival. But no longer now could Servadac regard him in the light of an adversary; circumstances
had changed, and all animosity was absorbed in the eagerness with which he hailed the prospect
of obtaining some information about the recent startling and inexplicable events. During the
twenty-seven days that she had been absent, the Dobryna, he conjectured, would have explored
the Mediterranean, would very probably have visited Spain, France, or Italy, and accordingly
would convey to Gourbi Island some intelligence from one or other of those countries. He reckoned,
therefore, not only upon ascertaining the extent of the late catastrophe, but upon learning
its cause. Count Timascheff was, no doubt, magnanimously coming to the rescue of himself and
his orderly.

The wind being adverse, the Dobryna did not make very rapid progress; but as the weather, in
spite of a few clouds, remained calm, and the sea was quite smooth, she was enabled to hold
a steady course. It seemed unaccountable that she should not use her engine, as whoever was
on board, would be naturally impatient to reconnoiter the new island, which must just have
come within their view. The probability that suggested itself was that the schooner's fuel
was exhausted.

Servadac took it for granted that the Dobryna was endeavoring to put in. It occurred to him,
however, that the count, on discovering an island where he had expected to find the mainland
of Africa, would not unlikely be at a loss for a place of anchorage. The yacht was evidently
making her way in the direction of the former mouth of the Shelif, and the captain was struck
with the idea that he would do well to investigate whether there was any suitable mooring towards
which he might signal her. Zephyr and Galette were soon saddled, and in twenty minutes had
carried their riders to the western extremity of the island, where they both dismounted and
began to explore the coast.

They were not long in ascertaining that on the farther side of the point there was a small
well-sheltered creek of sufficient depth to accommodate a vessel of moderate tonnage. A narrow
channel formed a passage through the ridge of rocks that protected it from the open sea, and
which, even in the roughest weather, would ensure the calmness of its waters.

Whilst examining the rocky shore, the captain observed, to his great surprise, long and well-defined
rows of seaweed, which undoubtedly betokened that there had been a very considerable ebb and
flow of the waters--a thing unknown in the Mediterranean, where there is scarcely any perceptible
tide. What, however, seemed most remarkable, was the manifest evidence that ever since the
highest flood (which was caused, in all probability, by the proximity of the body of which
the huge disc had been so conspicuous on the night of the 31st of December) the phenomenon
had been gradually lessening, and in fact was now reduced to the normal limits which had characterized
it before the convulsion.

Without doing more than note the circumstance, Servadac turned his entire attention to the
Dobryna, which, now little more than a mile from shore, could not fail to see and understand
his signals. Slightly changing her course, she first struck her mainsail, and, in order to
facilitate the movements of her helmsman, soon carried nothing but her two topsails, brigantine
and jib. After rounding the peak, she steered direct for the channel to which Servadac by his
gestures was pointing her, and was not long in entering the creek. As soon as the anchor, imbedded
in the sandy bottom, had made good its hold, a boat was lowered. In a few minutes more Count
Timascheff had landed on the island. Captain Servadac hastened towards him.

"First of all, count," he exclaimed impetuously, "before we speak one other word, tell me what
has happened."

The count, whose imperturbable composure presented a singular contrast to the French officer's
enthusiastic vivacity, made a stiff bow, and in his Russian accent replied: "First of all,
permit me to express my surprise at seeing you here. I left you on a continent, and here I
have the honor of finding you on an island."

"I assure you, count, I have never left the place."

"I am quite aware of it. Captain Servadac, and I now beg to offer you my sincere apologies
for failing to keep my appointment with you."

"Never mind, now," interposed the captain; "we will talk of that by-and-by. First, tell me
what has happened."

"The very question I was about to put to you, Captain Servadac."

"Do you mean to say you know nothing of the cause, and can tell me nothing of the extent, of
the catastrophe which has transformed this part of Africa into an island?"

"Nothing more than you know yourself."

"But surely, Count Timascheff, you can inform me whether upon the northern shore of the Mediterranean--"

"Are you certain that this is the Mediterranean?" asked the count significantly, and added,
"I have discovered no sign of land."

The captain stared in silent bewilderment. For some moments he seemed perfectly stupefied;
then, recovering himself, he began to overwhelm the count with a torrent of questions. Had
he noticed, ever since the 1st of January, that the sun had risen in the west? Had he noticed
that the days had been only six hours long, and that the weight of the atmosphere was so much
diminished? Had he observed that the moon had quite disappeared, and that the earth had been
in imminent hazard of running foul of the planet Venus? Was he aware, in short, that the entire
motions of the terrestrial sphere had undergone a complete modification? To all these inquiries,
the count responded in the affirmative. He was acquainted with everything that had transpired;
but, to Servadac's increasing astonishment, he could throw no light upon the cause of any of
the phenomena.

"On the night of the 31st of December," he said, "I was proceeding by sea to our appointed
place of meeting, when my yacht was suddenly caught on the crest of an enormous wave, and carried
to a height which it is beyond my power to estimate. Some mysterious force seemed to have brought
about a convulsion of the elements. Our engine was damaged, nay disabled, and we drifted entirely
at the mercy of the terrible hurricane that raged during the succeeding days. That the Dobryna
escaped at all is little less than a miracle, and I can only attribute her safety to the fact
that she occupied the center of the vast cyclone, and consequently did not experience much
change of position."

He paused, and added: "Your island is the first land we have seen."

"Then let us put out to sea at once and ascertain the extent of the disaster," cried the captain,
eagerly. "You will take me on board, count, will you not?"

"My yacht is at your service, sir, even should you require to make a tour round the world."

"A tour round the Mediterranean will suffice for the present, I think," said the captain, smiling.

The count shook his head.

"I am not sure," said he, "but what the tour of the Mediterranean will prove to be the tour
of the world."

Servadac made no reply, but for a time remained silent and absorbed in thought.

After the silence was broken, they consulted as to what course was best to pursue; and the
plan they proposed was, in the first place, to discover how much of the African coast still
remained, and to carry on the tidings of their own experiences to Algiers; or, in the event
of the southern shore having actually disappeared, they would make their way northwards and
put themselves in communication with the population on the river banks of Europe.

Before starting, it was indispensable that the engine of the Dobryna should be repaired: to
sail under canvas only would in contrary winds and rough seas be both tedious and difficult.
The stock of coal on board was adequate for two months' consumption; but as it would at the
expiration of that time be exhausted, it was obviously the part of prudence to employ it in
reaching a port where fuel could be replenished.

The damage sustained by the engine proved to be not very serious; and in three days after her
arrival the Dobryna was again ready to put to sea.

Servadac employed the interval in making the count acquainted with all he knew about his small
domain. They made an entire circuit of the island, and both agreed that it must be beyond the
limits of that circumscribed territory that they must seek an explanation of what had so strangely
transpired.

It was on the last day of January that the repairs of the schooner were completed. A slight
diminution in the excessively high temperature which had prevailed for the last few weeks,
was the only apparent change in the general order of things; but whether this was to be attributed
to any alteration in the earth's orbit was a question which would still require several days
to decide. The weather remained fine, and although a few clouds had accumulated, and might
have caused a trifling fall of the barometer, they were not sufficiently threatening to delay
the departure of the Dobryna.

Doubts now arose, and some discussion followed, whether or not it was desirable for Ben Zoof
to accompany his master. There were various reasons why he should be left behind, not the least
important being that the schooner had no accommodation for horses, and the orderly would have
found it hard to part with Zephyr, and much more with his own favorite Galette; besides, it
was advisable that there should be some one left to receive any strangers that might possibly
arrive, as well as to keep an eye upon the herds of cattle which, in the dubious prospect before
them, might prove to be the sole resource of the survivors of the catastrophe. Altogether,
taking into consideration that the brave fellow would incur no personal risk by remaining upon
the island, the captain was induced with much reluctance to forego the attendance of his servant,
hoping very shortly to return and to restore him to his country, when he had ascertained the
reason of the mysteries in which they were enveloped.

On the 31st, then, Ben Zoof was "invested with governor's powers," and took an affecting leave
of his master, begging him, if chance should carry him near Montmartre, to ascertain whether
the beloved "mountain" had been left unmoved.

Farewells over, the Dobryna was carefully steered through the creek, and was soon upon the
open sea.

CHAPTER X. A SEARCH FOR ALGERIA

The Dobryna, a strong craft of 200 tons burden, had been built in the famous shipbuilding yards
in the Isle of Wight. Her sea going qualities were excellent, and would have amply sufficed
for a circumnavigation of the globe. Count Timascheff was himself no sailor, but had the greatest
confidence in leaving the command of his yacht in the hands of Lieutenant Procope, a man of
about thirty years of age, and an excellent seaman. Born on the count's estates, the son of
a serf who had been emancipated long before the famous edict of the Emperor Alexander, Procope
was sincerely attached, by a tie of gratitude as well as of duty and affection, to his patron's
service. After an apprenticeship on a merchant ship he had entered the imperial navy, and had
already reached the rank of lieutenant when the count appointed him to the charge of his own
private yacht, in which he was accustomed to spend by far the greater part of his time, throughout
the winter generally cruising in the Mediterranean, whilst in the summer he visited more northern
waters.

The ship could not have been in better hands. The lieutenant was well informed in many matters
outside the pale of his profession, and his attainments were alike creditable to himself and
to the liberal friend who had given him his education. He had an excellent crew, consisting
of Tiglew the engineer, four sailors named Niegoch, Tolstoy, Etkef, and Panofka, and Mochel
the cook. These men, without exception, were all sons of the count's tenants, and so tenaciously,
even out at sea, did they cling to their old traditions, that it mattered little to them what
physical disorganization ensued, so long as they felt they were sharing the experiences of
their lord and master. The late astounding events, however, had rendered Procope manifestly
uneasy, and not the less so from his consciousness that the count secretly partook of his own
anxiety.

Steam up and canvas spread, the schooner started eastwards. With a favorable wind she would
certainly have made eleven knots an hour had not the high waves somewhat impeded her progress.
Although only a moderate breeze was blowing, the sea was rough, a circumstance to be accounted
for only by the diminution in the force of the earth's attraction rendering the liquid particles
so buoyant, that by the mere effect of oscillation they were carried to a height that was quite
unprecedented. M. Arago has fixed twenty-five or twenty-six feet as the maximum elevation ever
attained by the highest waves, and his astonishment would have been very great to see them
rising fifty or even sixty feet. Nor did these waves in the usual way partially unfurl themselves
and rebound against the sides of the vessel; they might rather be described as long undulations
carrying the schooner (its weight diminished from the same cause as that of the water) alternately
to such heights and depths, that if Captain Servadac had been subject to seasickness he must
have found himself in sorry plight. As the pitching, however, was the result of a long uniform
swell, the yacht did not labor much harder than she would against the ordinary short strong
waves of the Mediterranean; the main inconvenience that was experienced was the diminution
in her proper rate of speed.

For a few miles she followed the line hitherto presumably occupied by the coast of Algeria;
but no land appeared to the south. The changed positions of the planets rendered them of no
avail for purposes of nautical observation, nor could Lieutenant Procope calculate his latitude
and longitude by the altitude of the sun, as his reckonings would be useless when applied to
charts that had been constructed for the old order of things; but nevertheless, by means of
the log, which gave him the rate of progress, and by the compass which indicated the direction
in which they were sailing, he was able to form an estimate of his position that was sufficiently
free from error for his immediate need.

Happily the recent phenomena had no effect upon the compass; the magnetic needle, which in
these regions had pointed about 22 degrees from the north pole, had never deviated in the least--a
proof that, although east and west had apparently changed places, north and south continued
to retain their normal position as cardinal points. The log and the compass, therefore, were
able to be called upon to do the work of the sextant, which had become utterly useless.

On the first morning of the cruise Lieutenant Procope, who, like most Russians, spoke French
fluently, was explaining these peculiarities to Captain Servadac; the count was present, and
the conversation perpetually recurred, as naturally it would, to the phenomena which remained
so inexplicable to them all.

"It is very evident," said the lieutenant, "that ever since the 1st of January the earth has
been moving in a new orbit, and from some unknown cause has drawn nearer to the sun."

"No doubt about that," said Servadac; "and I suppose that, having crossed the orbit of Venus,
we have a good chance of running into the orbit of Mercury."

"And finish up by a collision with the sun!" added the count.

"There is no fear of that, sir. The earth has undoubtedly entered upon a new orbit, but she
is not incurring any probable risk of being precipitated onto the sun."

"Can you satisfy us of that?" asked the count.

"I can, sir. I can give you a proof which I think you will own is conclusive. If, as you suppose,
the earth is being drawn on so as to be precipitated against the sun, the great center of attraction
of our system, it could only be because the centrifugal and centripetal forces that cause the
planets to rotate in their several orbits had been entirely suspended: in that case, indeed,
the earth would rush onwards towards the sun, and in sixty-four days and a half the catastrophe
you dread would inevitably happen."

"And what demonstration do you offer," asked Servadac eagerly, "that it will not happen?"

"Simply this, captain: that since the earth entered her new orbit half the sixty-four days
has already elapsed, and yet it is only just recently that she has crossed the orbit of Venus,
hardly one-third of the distance to be traversed to reach the sun."

The lieutenant paused to allow time for reflection, and added: "Moreover, I have every reason
to believe that we are not so near the sun as we have been. The temperature has been gradually
diminishing; the heat upon Gourbi Island is not greater now than we might ordinarily expect
to find in Algeria. At the same time, we have the problem still unsolved that the Mediterranean
has evidently been transported to the equatorial zone."

Both the count and the captain expressed themselves reassured by his representations, and observed
that they must now do all in their power to discover what had become of the vast continent
of Africa, of which, they were hitherto failing so completely to find a vestige.

Twenty-four hours after leaving the island, the Dobryna had passed over the sites where Tenes,
Cherchil, Koleah, and Sidi-Feruch once had been, but of these towns not one appeared within
range of the telescope. Ocean reigned supreme. Lieutenant Procope was absolutely certain that
he had not mistaken his direction; the compass showed that the wind had never shifted from
the west, and this, with the rate of speed as estimated by the log, combined to assure him
that at this date, the 2d of February, the schooner was in lat. 36 degrees 49 min N. and long.
3 degrees 25 min E., the very spot which ought to have been occupied by the Algerian capital.
But Algiers, like all the other coast-towns, had apparently been absorbed into the bowels of
the earth.

Captain Servadac, with clenched teeth and knitted brow, stood sternly, almost fiercely, regarding
the boundless waste of water. His pulse beat fast as he recalled the friends and comrades with
whom he had spent the last few years in that vanished city. All the images of his past life
floated upon his memory; his thoughts sped away to his native France, only to return again
to wonder whether the depths of ocean would reveal any traces of the Algerian metropolis.

"Is it not impossible," he murmured aloud, "that any city should disappear so completely? Would
not the loftiest eminences of the city at least be visible? Surely some portion of the Casbah
must still rise above the waves? The imperial fort, too, was built upon an elevation of 750
feet; it is incredible that it should be so totally submerged. Unless some vestiges of these
are found, I shall begin to suspect that the whole of Africa has been swallowed in some vast
abyss."

Another circumstance was most remarkable. Not a material object of any kind was to be noticed
floating on the surface of the water; not one branch of a tree had been seen drifting by, nor
one spar belonging to one of the numerous vessels that a month previously had been moored in
the magnificent bay which stretched twelve miles across from Cape Matafuz to Point Pexade.
Perhaps the depths might disclose what the surface failed to reveal, and Count Timascheff,
anxious that Servadac should have every facility afforded him for solving his doubts, called
for the sounding-line. Forthwith, the lead was greased and lowered. To the surprise of all,
and especially of Lieutenant Procope, the line indicated a bottom at a nearly uniform depth
of from four to five fathoms; and although the sounding was persevered with continuously for
more than two hours over a considerable area, the differences of level were insignificant,
not corresponding in any degree to what would be expected over the site of a city that had
been terraced like the seats of an amphitheater. Astounding as it seemed, what alternative
was left but to suppose that the Algerian capital had been completely leveled by the flood?

The sea-bottom was composed of neither rock, mud, sand, nor shells; the sounding-lead brought
up nothing but a kind of metallic dust, which glittered with a strange iridescence, and the
nature of which it was impossible to determine, as it was totally unlike what had ever been
known to be raised from the bed of the Mediterranean.

"You must see, lieutenant, I should think, that we are not so near the coast of Algeria as
you imagined."

The lieutenant shook his head. After pondering awhile, he said: "If we were farther away I
should expect to find a depth of two or three hundred fathoms instead of five fathoms. Five
fathoms! I confess I am puzzled."

For the next thirty-six hours, until the 4th of February, the sea was examined and explored
with the most unflagging perseverance. Its depth remained invariable, still four, or at most
five, fathoms; and although its bottom was assiduously dredged, it was only to prove it barren
of marine production of any type.

The yacht made its way to lat. 36 degrees, and by reference to the charts it was tolerably
certain that she was cruising over the site of the Sahel, the ridge that had separated the
rich plain of the Mitidja from the sea, and of which the highest peak, Mount Boujereah, had
reached an altitude of 1,200 feet; but even this peak, which might have been expected to emerge
like an islet above the surface of the sea, was nowhere to be traced. Nothing was to be done
but to put about, and return in disappointment towards the north.

Thus the Dobryna regained the waters of the Mediterranean without discovering a trace of the
missing province of Algeria.

CHAPTER XI. AN ISLAND TOMB

No longer, then, could there be any doubt as to the annihilation of a considerable portion
of the colony. Not merely had there been a submersion of the land, but the impression was more
and more confirmed that the very bowels of the earth must have yawned and closed again upon
a large territory. Of the rocky substratum of the province it became more evident than ever
that not a trace remained, and a new soil of unknown formation had certainly taken the place
of the old sandy sea-bottom. As it altogether transcended the powers of those on board to elucidate
the origin of this catastrophe, it was felt to be incumbent on them at least to ascertain its
extent.

After a long and somewhat wavering discussion, it was at length decided that the schooner should
take advantage of the favorable wind and weather, and proceed at first towards the east, thus
following the outline of what had formerly represented the coast of Africa, until that coast
had been lost in boundless sea.

Not a vestige of it all remained; from Cape Matafuz to Tunis it had all gone, as though it
had never been. The maritime town of Dellis, built like Algiers, amphitheater-wise, had totally
disappeared; the highest points were quite invisible; not a trace on the horizon was left of
the Jurjura chain, the topmost point of which was known to have an altitude of more than 7,000
feet.

Unsparing of her fuel, the Dobryna made her way at full steam towards Cape Blanc. Neither Cape
Negro nor Cape Serrat was to be seen. The town of Bizerta, once charming in its oriental beauty,
had vanished utterly; its marabouts, or temple-tombs, shaded by magnificent palms that fringed
the gulf, which by reason of its narrow mouth had the semblance of a lake, all had disappeared,
giving place to a vast waste of sea, the transparent waves of which, as still demonstrated
by the sounding-line, had ever the same uniform and arid bottom.

In the course of the day the schooner rounded the point where, five weeks previously, Cape
Blanc had been so conspicuous an object, and she was now stemming the waters of what once had
been the Bay of Tunis. But bay there was none, and the town from which it had derived its name,
with the Arsenal, the Goletta, and the two peaks of Bou-Kournein, had all vanished from the
view. Cape Bon, too, the most northern promontory of Africa and the point of the continent
nearest to the island of Sicily, had been included in the general devastation.

Before the occurrence of the recent prodigy, the bottom of the Mediterranean just at this point
had formed a sudden ridge across the Straits of Libya. The sides of the ridge had shelved to
so great an extent that, while the depth of water on the summit had been little more than eleven
fathoms, that on either hand of the elevation was little short of a hundred fathoms. A formation
such as this plainly indicated that at some remote epoch Cape Bon had been connected with Cape
Furina, the extremity of Sicily, in the same manner as Ceuta has doubtless been connected with
Gibraltar.

Lieutenant Procope was too well acquainted with the Mediterranean to be unaware of this peculiarity,
and would not lose the opportunity of ascertaining whether the submarine ridge still existed,
or whether the sea-bottom between Sicily and Africa had undergone any modification.

Both Timascheff and Servadac were much interested in watching the operations. At a sign from
the lieutenant, a sailor who was stationed at the foot of the fore-shrouds dropped the sounding-lead
into the water, and in reply to Procope's inquiries, reported--"Five fathoms and a flat bottom."

The next aim was to determine the amount of depression on either side of the ridge, and for
this purpose the Dobryna was shifted for a distance of half a mile both to the right and left,
and the soundings taken at each station. "Five fathoms and a flat bottom," was the unvaried
announcement after each operation. Not only, therefore, was it evident that the submerged chain
between Cape Bon and Cape Furina no longer existed, but it was equally clear that the convulsion
had caused a general leveling of the sea-bottom, and that the soil, degenerated, as it has
been said, into a metallic dust of unrecognized composition, bore no trace of the sponges,
sea-anemones, star-fish, sea-nettles, hydrophytes, and shells with which the submarine rocks
of the Mediterranean had hitherto been prodigally clothed.

The Dobryna now put about and resumed her explorations in a southerly direction. It remained,
however, as remarkable as ever how completely throughout the voyage the sea continued to be
deserted; all expectations of hailing a vessel bearing news from Europe were entirely falsified,
so that more and more each member of the crew began to be conscious of his isolation, and to
believe that the schooner, like a second Noah's ark, carried the sole survivors of a calamity
that had overwhelmed the earth.

On the 9th of February the Dobryna passed over the site of the city of Dido, the ancient Byrsa--a
Carthage, however, which was now more completely destroyed than ever Punic Carthage had been
destroyed by Scipio Africanus or Roman Carthage by Hassan the Saracen.

In the evening, as the sun was sinking below the eastern horizon, Captain Servadac was lounging
moodily against the taffrail. From the heaven above, where stars kept peeping fitfully from
behind the moving clouds, his eye wandered mechanically to the waters below, where the long
waves were rising and falling with the evening breeze.

All at once, his attention was arrested by a luminous speck straight ahead on the southern
horizon. At first, imagining that he was the victim of some spectral illusion, he observed
it with silent attention; but when, after some minutes, he became convinced that what he saw
was actually a distant light, he appealed to one of the sailors, by whom his impression was
fully corroborated. The intelligence was immediately imparted to Count Timascheff and the lieutenant.

"Is it land, do you suppose?" inquired Servadac, eagerly.

"I should be more inclined to think it is a light on board some ship," replied the count.

"Whatever it is, in another hour we shall know all about it," said Servadac.

"No, captain," interposed Lieutenant Procope; "we shall know nothing until to-morrow."

"What! not bear down upon it at once?" asked the count in surprise.

"No, sir; I should much rather lay to and wait till daylight. If we are really near land, I
should be afraid to approach it in the dark."

The count expressed his approval of the lieutenant's caution, and thereupon all sail was shortened
so as to keep the Dobryna from making any considerable progress all through the hours of night.
Few as those hours were, they seemed to those on board as if their end would never come. Fearful
lest the faint glimmer should at any moment cease to be visible, Hector Servadac did not quit
his post upon the deck; but the light continued unchanged. It shone with about the same degree
of luster as a star of the second magnitude, and from the fact of its remaining stationary,
Procope became more and more convinced that it was on land and did not belong to a passing vessel.

At sunrise every telescope was pointed with keenest interest towards the center of attraction.
The light, of course, had ceased to be visible, but in the direction where it had been seen,
and at a distance of about ten miles, there was the distinct outline of a solitary island of
very small extent; rather, as the count observed, it had the appearance of being the projecting
summit of a mountain all but submerged. Whatever it was, it was agreed that its true character
must be ascertained, not only to gratify their own curiosity, but for the benefit of all future
navigators. The schooner accordingly was steered directly towards it, and in less than an hour
had cast anchor within a few cables' lengths of the shore.

The little island proved to be nothing more than an arid rock rising abruptly about forty feet
above the water. It had no outlying reefs, a circumstance that seemed to suggest the probability
that in the recent convulsion it had sunk gradually, until it had reached its present position
of equilibrium.

Without removing his eye from his telescope, Servadac exclaimed: "There is a habitation on
the place; I can see an erection of some kind quite distinctly. Who can tell whether we shall
not come across a human being?"

Lieutenant Procope looked doubtful. The island had all the appearance of being deserted, nor
did a cannon-shot fired from the schooner have the effect of bringing any resident to the shore.
Nevertheless, it was undeniable that there was a stone building situated on the top of the
rock, and that this building had much the character of an Arabian mosque.

The boat was lowered and manned by the four sailors; Servadac, Timascheff and Procope were
quickly rowed ashore, and lost no time in commencing their ascent of the steep acclivity. Upon
reaching the summit, they found their progress arrested by a kind of wall, or rampart of singular
construction, its materials consisting mainly of vases, fragments of columns, carved bas-reliefs,
statues, and portions of broken stelae, all piled promiscuously together without any pretense
to artistic arrangement. They made their way into the enclosure, and finding an open door,
they passed through and soon came to a second door, also open, which admitted them to the interior
of the mosque, consisting of a single chamber, the walls of which were ornamented in the Arabian
style by sculptures of indifferent execution. In the center was a tomb of the very simplest
kind, and above the tomb was suspended a large silver lamp with a capacious reservoir of oil,
in which floated a long lighted wick, the flame of which was evidently the light that had attracted
Servadac's attention on the previous night.

"Must there not have been a custodian of the shrine?" they mutually asked; but if such there
had ever been, he must, they concluded, either have fled or have perished on that eventful
night. Not a soul was there in charge, and the sole living occupants were a flock of wild cormorants
which, startled at the entrance of the intruders, rose on wing, and took a rapid flight towards
the south.

An old French prayer-book was lying on the corner of the tomb; the volume was open, and the
page exposed to view was that which contained the office for the celebration of the 25th of
August. A sudden revelation dashed across Servadac's mind. The solemn isolation of the island
tomb, the open breviary, the ritual of the ancient anniversary, all combined to apprise him
of the sanctity of the spot upon which he stood.

"The tomb of St. Louis!" he exclaimed, and his companions involuntarily followed his example,
and made a reverential obeisance to the venerated monument.

It was, in truth, the very spot on which tradition asserts that the canonized monarch came
to die, a spot to which for six centuries and more his countrymen had paid the homage of a
pious regard. The lamp that had been kindled at the memorial shrine of a saint was now in all
probability the only beacon that threw a light across the waters of the Mediterranean, and
even this ere long must itself expire.

There was nothing more to explore. The three together quitted the mosque, and descended the
rock to the shore, whence their boat re-conveyed them to the schooner, which was soon again
on her southward voyage; and it was not long before the tomb of St. Louis, the only spot that
had survived the mysterious shock, was lost to view.

CHAPTER XII. AT THE MERCY OF THE WINDS

As the affrighted cormorants had winged their flight towards the south, there sprang up a sanguine
hope on board the schooner that land might be discovered in that direction. Thither, accordingly,
it was determined to proceed, and in a few hours after quitting the island of the tomb, the
Dobryna was traversing the shallow waters that now covered the peninsula of Dakhul, which had
separated the Bay of Tunis from the Gulf of Hammamet. For two days she continued an undeviating
course, and after a futile search for the coast of Tunis, reached the latitude of 34 degrees.

Here, on the 11th of February, there suddenly arose the cry of "Land!" and in the extreme horizon,
right ahead, where land had never been before, it was true enough that a shore was distinctly
to be seen. What could it be? It could not be the coast of Tripoli; for not only would that
low-lying shore be quite invisible at such a distance, but it was certain, moreover, that it
lay two degrees at least still further south. It was soon observed that this newly discovered
land was of very irregular elevation, that it extended due east and west across the horizon,
thus dividing the gulf into two separate sections and completely concealing the island of Jerba,
which must lie behind. Its position was duly traced on the Dobryna's chart.

"How strange," exclaimed Hector Servadac, "that after sailing all this time over sea where
we expected to find land, we have at last come upon land where we thought to find sea!"

"Strange, indeed," replied Lieutenant Procope; "and what appears to me almost as remarkable
is that we have never once caught sight either of one of the Maltese tartans or one of the
Levantine xebecs that traffic so regularly on the Mediterranean."

"Eastwards or westwards," asked the count--"which shall be our course? All farther progress
to the south is checked."

"Westwards, by all means," replied Servadac quickly. "I am longing to know whether anything
of Algeria is left beyond the Shelif; besides, as we pass Gourbi Island we might take Ben Zoof
on board, and then make away for Gibraltar, where we should be sure to learn something, at
least, of European news."

With his usual air of stately courtesy, Count Timascheff begged the captain to consider the
yacht at his own disposal, and desired him to give the lieutenant instructions accordingly.

Lieutenant Procope, however, hesitated, and after revolving matters for a few moments in his
mind, pointed out that as the wind was blowing directly from the west, and seemed likely to
increase, if they went to the west in the teeth of the weather, the schooner would be reduced
to the use of her engine only, and would have much difficulty in making any headway; on the
other hand, by taking an eastward course, not only would they have the advantage of the wind,
but, under steam and canvas, might hope in a few days to be off the coast of Egypt, and from
Alexandria or some other port they would have the same opportunity of getting tidings from
Europe as they would at Gibraltar.

Intensely anxious as he was to revisit the province of Oran, and eager, too, to satisfy himself
of the welfare of his faithful Ben Zoof, Servadac could not but own the reasonableness of the
lieutenant's objections, and yielded to the proposal that the eastward course should be adopted.
The wind gave signs only too threatening of the breeze rising to a gale; but, fortunately,
the waves did not culminate in breakers, but rather in a long swell which ran in the same direction
as the vessel.

During the last fortnight the high temperature had been gradually diminishing, until it now
reached an average of 20 degrees Cent. (or 68 degrees Fahr.), and sometimes descended as low
as 15 degrees. That this diminution was to be attributed to the change in the earth's orbit
was a question that admitted of little doubt. After approaching so near to the sun as to cross
the orbit of Venus, the earth must now have receded so far from the sun that its normal distance
of ninety-one millions of miles was greatly increased, and the probability was great that it
was approximating to the orbit of Mars, that planet which in its physical constitution most
nearly resembles our own. Nor was this supposition suggested merely by the lowering of the
temperature; it was strongly corroborated by the reduction of the apparent diameter of the
sun's disc to the precise dimensions which it would assume to an observer actually stationed
on the surface of Mars. The necessary inference that seemed to follow from these phenomena
was that the earth had been projected into a new orbit, which had the form of a very elongated
ellipse.

Very slight, however, in comparison was the regard which these astronomical wonders attracted
on board the Dobryna. All interest there was too much absorbed in terrestrial matters, and
in ascertaining what changes had taken place in the configuration of the earth itself, to permit
much attention to be paid to its erratic movements through space.

The schooner kept bravely on her way, but well out to sea, at a distance of two miles from
land. There was good need of this precaution, for so precipitous was the shore that a vessel
driven upon it must inevitably have gone to pieces; it did not offer a single harbor of refuge,
but, smooth and perpendicular as the walls of a fortress, it rose to a height of two hundred,
and occasionally of three hundred feet. The waves dashed violently against its base. Upon the
general substratum rested a massive conglomerate, the crystallizations of which rose like a
forest of gigantic pyramids and obelisks.

But what struck the explorers more than anything was the appearance of singular newness that
pervaded the whole of the region. It all seemed so recent in its formation that the atmosphere
had had no opportunity of producing its wonted effect in softening the hardness of its lines,
in rounding the sharpness of its angles, or in modifying the color of its surface; its outline
was clearly marked against the sky, and its substance, smooth and polished as though fresh
from a founder's mold, glittered with the metallic brilliancy that is characteristic of pyrites.
It seemed impossible to come to any other conclusion but that the land before them, continent
or island, had been upheaved by subterranean forces above the surface of the sea, and that
it was mainly composed of the same metallic element as had characterized the dust so frequently
uplifted from the bottom.

The extreme nakedness of the entire tract was likewise very extraordinary. Elsewhere, in various
quarters of the globe, there may be sterile rocks, but there are none so adamant as to be altogether
unfurrowed by the filaments engendered in the moist residuum of the condensed vapor; elsewhere
there may be barren steeps, but none so rigid as not to afford some hold to vegetation, however
low and elementary may be its type; but here all was bare, and blank, and desolate--not a symptom
of vitality was visible.

Such being the condition of the adjacent land, it could hardly be a matter of surprise that
all the sea-birds, the albatross, the gull, the sea-mew, sought continual refuge on the schooner;
day and night they perched fearlessly upon the yards, the report of a gun failing to dislodge
them, and when food of any sort was thrown upon the deck, they would dart down and fight with
eager voracity for the prize. Their extreme avidity was recognized as a proof that any land
where they could obtain a sustenance must be far remote.

Onwards thus for several days the Dobryna followed the contour of the inhospitable coast, of
which the features would occasionally change, sometimes for two or three miles assuming the
form of a simple arris, sharply defined as though cut by a chisel, when suddenly the prismatic
lamellae soaring in rugged confusion would again recur; but all along there was the same absence
of beach or tract of sand to mark its base, neither were there any of those shoals of rock
that are ordinarily found in shallow water. At rare intervals there were some narrow fissures,
but not a creek available for a ship to enter to replenish its supply of water; and the wide
roadsteads were unprotected and exposed to well-nigh every point of the compass.

But after sailing two hundred and forty miles, the progress of the Dobryna was suddenly arrested.
Lieutenant Procope, who had sedulously inserted the outline of the newly revealed shore upon
the maps, announced that it had ceased to run east and west, and had taken a turn due north,
thus forming a barrier to their continuing their previous direction. It was, of course, impossible
to conjecture how far this barrier extended; it coincided pretty nearly with the fourteenth
meridian of east longitude; and if it reached, as probably it did, beyond Sicily to Italy,
it was certain that the vast basin of the Mediterranean, which had washed the shores alike
of Europe, Asia, and Africa, must have been reduced to about half its original area.

It was resolved to proceed upon the same plan as heretofore, following the boundary of the
land at a safe distance. Accordingly, the head of the Dobryna was pointed north, making straight,
as it was presumed, for the south of Europe. A hundred miles, or somewhat over, in that direction,
and it was to be anticipated she would come in sight of Malta, if only that ancient island,
the heritage in succession of Phoenicians, Carthaginians, Sicilians, Romans, Vandals, Greeks,
Arabians, and the knights of Rhodes, should still be undestroyed.

But Malta, too, was gone; and when, upon the 14th, the sounding-line was dropped upon its site,
it was only with the same result so oftentimes obtained before.

"The devastation is not limited to Africa," observed the count.

"Assuredly not," assented the lieutenant; adding, "and I confess I am almost in despair whether
we shall ever ascertain its limits. To what quarter of Europe, if Europe still exists, do you
propose that I should now direct your course?"

"To Sicily, Italy, France!" ejaculated Servadac, eagerly,--"anywhere where we can learn the
truth of what has befallen us."

"How if we are the sole survivors?" said the count, gravely.

Hector Servadac was silent; his own secret presentiment so thoroughly coincided with the doubts
expressed by the count, that he refrained from saying another word.

The coast, without deviation, still tended towards the north. No alternative, therefore, remained
than to take a westerly course and to attempt to reach the northern shores of the Mediterranean.
On the 16th the Dobryna essayed to start upon her altered way, but it seemed as if the elements
had conspired to obstruct her progress. A furious tempest arose; the wind beat dead in the
direction of the coast, and the danger incurred by a vessel of a tonnage so light was necessarily
very great.

Lieutenant Procope was extremely uneasy. He took in all sail, struck his topmasts, and resolved
to rely entirely on his engine. But the peril seemed only to increase. Enormous waves caught
the schooner and carried her up to their crests, whence again she was plunged deep into the
abysses that they left. The screw failed to keep its hold upon the water, but continually revolved
with useless speed in the vacant air; and thus, although the steam was forced on to the extremest
limit consistent with safety, the vessel held her way with the utmost difficulty, and recoiled
before the hurricane.

Still, not a single resort for refuge did the inaccessible shore present. Again and again the
lieutenant asked himself what would become of him and his comrades, even if they should survive
the peril of shipwreck, and gain a footing upon the cliff. What resources could they expect
to find upon that scene of desolation? What hope could they entertain that any portion of the
old continent still existed beyond that dreary barrier?

It was a trying time, but throughout it all the crew behaved with the greatest courage and
composure; confident in the skill of their commander, and in the stability of their ship, they
performed their duties with steadiness and unquestioning obedience.

But neither skill, nor courage, nor obedience could avail; all was in vain. Despite the strain
put upon her engine, the schooner, bare of canvas (for not even the smallest stay-sail could
have withstood the violence of the storm), was drifting with terrific speed towards the menacing
precipices, which were only a. few short miles to leeward. Fully alive to the hopelessness
of their situation, the crew were all on deck.

"All over with us, sir!" said Procope to the count. "I have done everything that man could
do; but our case is desperate. Nothing short of a miracle can save us now. Within an hour we
must go to pieces upon yonder rocks."

"Let us, then, commend ourselves to the providence of Him to Whom nothing is impossible," replied
the count, in a calm, clear voice that could be distinctly heard by all; and as he spoke, he
reverently uncovered, an example in which he was followed by all the rest.

The destruction of the vessel seeming thus inevitable, Lieutenant Procope took the best measures
he could to insure a few days' supply of food for any who might escape ashore. He ordered several
cases of provisions and kegs of water to be brought on deck, and saw that they were securely
lashed to some empty barrels, to make them float after the ship had gone down.

Less and less grew the distance from the shore, but no creek, no inlet, could be discerned
in the towering wall of cliff, which seemed about to topple over and involve them in annihilation.
Except a change of wind or, as Procope observed, a supernatural rifting of the rock, nothing
could bring deliverance now. But the wind did not veer, and in a few minutes more the schooner
was hardly three cables' distance from the fatal land. All were aware that their last moment
had arrived. Servadac and the count grasped each other's hands for a long farewell; and, tossed
by the tremendous waves, the schooner was on the very point of being hurled upon the cliff,
when a ringing shout was heard. "Quick, boys, quick! Hoist the jib, and right the tiller!"

Sudden and startling as the unexpected orders were, they were executed as if by magic.

The lieutenant, who had shouted from the bow, rushed astern and took the helm, and before anyone
had time to speculate upon the object of his maneuvers, he shouted again, "Look out! sharp!
watch the sheets!"

An involuntary cry broke forth from all on board. But it was no cry of terror. Right ahead
was a narrow opening in the solid rock; it was hardly forty feet wide. Whether it was a passage
or no, it mattered little; it was at least a refuge; and, driven by wind and wave, the Dobryna,
under the dexterous guidance of the lieutenant, dashed in between its perpendicular walls.

Had she not immured herself in a perpetual prison?

CHAPTER XIII. A ROYAL SALUTE

"Then I take your bishop, major," said Colonel Murphy, as he made a move that he had taken
since the previous evening to consider.

"I was afraid you would," replied Major Oliphant, looking intently at the chess-board.

Such was the way in which a long silence was broken on the morning of the 17th of February
by the old calendar.

Another day elapsed before another move was made. It was a protracted game; it had, in fact,
already lasted some months--the players being so deliberate, and so fearful of taking a step
without the most mature consideration, that even now they were only making the twentieth move.

Both of them, moreover, were rigid disciples of the renowned Philidor, who pronounces that
to play the pawns well is "the soul of chess"; and, accordingly, not one pawn had been sacrificed
without a most vigorous defense.

The men who were thus beguiling their leisure were two officers in the British army--Colonel
Heneage Finch Murphy and Major Sir John Temple Oliphant. Remarkably similar in personal appearance,
they were hardly less so in personal character. Both of them were about forty years of age;
both of them were tall and fair, with bushy whiskers and mustaches; both of them were phlegmatic
in temperament, and both much addicted to the wearing of their uniforms. They were proud of
their nationality, and exhibited a manifest dislike, verging upon contempt, of everything foreign.
Probably they would have felt no surprise if they had been told that Anglo-Saxons were fashioned
out of some specific clay, the properties of which surpassed the investigation of chemical
analysis. Without any intentional disparagement they might, in a certain way, be compared to
two scarecrows which, though perfectly harmless in themselves, inspire some measure of respect,
and are excellently adapted to protect the territory intrusted to their guardianship.

English-like, the two officers had made themselves thoroughly at home in the station abroad
in which it had been their lot to be quartered. The faculty of colonization seems to be indigenous
to the native character; once let an Englishman plant his national standard on the surface
of the moon, and it would not be long before a colony was established round it.

The officers had a servant, named Kirke, and a company of ten soldiers of the line. This party
of thirteen men were apparently the sole survivors of an overwhelming catastrophe, which on
the 1st of January had transformed an enormous rock, garrisoned with well-nigh two thousand
troops, into an insignificant island far out to sea. But although the transformation had been
so marvelous, it cannot be said that either Colonel Murphy or Major Oliphant had made much
demonstration of astonishment.

"This is all very peculiar, Sir John," observed the colonel.

"Yes, colonel; very peculiar," replied the major.

"England will be sure to send for us," said one officer.

"No doubt she will," answered the other.

Accordingly, they came to the mutual resolution that they would "stick to their post."

To say the truth, it would have been a difficult matter for the gallant officers to do otherwise;
they had but one small boat; therefore, it was well that they made a virtue of necessity, and
resigned themselves to patient expectation of the British ship which, in due time, would bring
relief.

They had no fear of starvation. Their island was mined with subterranean stores, more than
ample for thirteen men--nay, for thirteen Englishmen--for the next five years at least. Preserved
meat, ale, brandy--all were in abundance; consequently, as the men expressed it, they were
in this respect "all right."

Of course, the physical changes that had taken place had attracted the notice both of officers
and men. But the reversed position of east and west, the diminution of the force of gravity,
the altered rotation of the earth, and her projection upon a new orbit, were all things that
gave them little concern and no uneasiness; and when the colonel and the major had replaced
the pieces on the board which had been disturbed by the convulsion, any surprise they might
have felt at the chess-men losing some portion of their weight was quite forgotten in the satisfaction
of seeing them retain their equilibrium.

One phenomenon, however, did not fail to make its due impression upon the men; this was the
diminution in the length of day and night. Three days after the catastrophe, Corporal Pim,
on behalf of himself and his comrades, solicited a formal interview with the officers. The
request having been granted, Pim, with the nine soldiers, all punctiliously wearing the regimental
tunic of scarlet and trousers of invisible green, presented themselves at the door of the colonel's
room, where he and his brother-officer were continuing their game. Raising his hand respectfully
to his cap, which he wore poised jauntily over his right ear, and scarcely held on by the strap
below his under lip, the corporal waited permission to speak.

After a lingering survey of the chess-board, the colonel slowly lifted his eyes, and said with
official dignity, "Well, men, what is it?"

"First of all, sir," replied the corporal, "we want to speak to you about our pay, and then
we wish to have a word with the major about our rations."

"Say on, then," said Colonel Murphy. "What is it about your pay?"

"Just this, sir; as the days are only half as long as they were, we should like to know whether
our pay is to be diminished in proportion."

The colonel was taken somewhat aback, and did not reply immediately, though by some significant
nods towards the major, he indicated that he thought the question very reasonable. After a
few moments' reflection, he replied, "It must, I think, be allowed that your pay was calculated
from sunrise to sunrise; there was no specification of what the interval should be. Your pay
will continue as before. England can afford it."

A buzz of approval burst involuntarily from all the men, but military discipline and the respect
due to their officers kept them in check from any boisterous demonstration of their satisfaction.

"And now, corporal, what is your business with me?" asked Major Oliphant.

"We want to know whether, as the days are only six hours long, we are to have but two meals
instead of four?"

The officers looked at each other, and by their glances agreed that the corporal was a man
of sound common sense.

"Eccentricities of nature," said the major, "cannot interfere with military regulations. It
is true that there will be but an interval of an hour and a half between them, but the rule
stands good--four meals a day. England is too rich to grudge her soldiers any of her soldiers'
due. Yes; four meals a day."

"Hurrah!" shouted the soldiers, unable this time to keep their delight within the bounds of
military decorum; and, turning to the right-about, they marched away, leaving the officers
to renew the all-absorbing game.

However confident everyone upon the island might profess to be that succor would be sent them
from their native land--for Britain never abandons any of her sons--it could not be disguised
that that succor was somewhat tardy in making its appearance. Many and various were the conjectures
to account for the delay. Perhaps England was engrossed with domestic matters, or perhaps she
was absorbed in diplomatic difficulties; or perchance, more likely than all, Northern Europe
had received no tidings of the convulsion that had shattered the south. The whole party throve
remarkably well upon the liberal provisions of the commissariat department, and if the officers
failed to show the same tendency to embonpoint which was fast becoming characteristic of the
men, it was only because they deemed it due to their rank to curtail any indulgences which
might compromise the fit of their uniform.

On the whole, time passed indifferently well. An Englishman rarely suffers from ennui, and
then only in his own country, when required to conform to what he calls "the humbug of society";
and the two officers, with their similar tastes, ideas, and dispositions, got on together admirably.
It is not to be questioned that they were deeply affected by a sense of regret for their lost
comrades, and astounded beyond measure at finding themselves the sole survivors of a garrison
of 1,895 men, but with true British pluck and self-control, they had done nothing more than
draw up a report that 1,882 names were missing from the muster-roll.

The island itself, the sole surviving fragment of an enormous pile of rock that had reared
itself some 1,600 feet above the sea, was not, strictly speaking, the only land that was visible;
for about twelve miles to the south there was another island, apparently the very counterpart
of what was now occupied by the Englishmen. It was only natural that this should awaken some
interest even in the most imperturbable minds, and there was no doubt that the two officers,
during one of the rare intervals when they were not absorbed in their game, had decided that
it would be desirable at least to ascertain whether the island was deserted, or whether it
might not be occupied by some others, like themselves, survivors from the general catastrophe.
Certain it is that one morning, when the weather was bright and calm, they had embarked alone
in the little boat, and been absent for seven or eight hours. Not even to Corporal Pim did
they communicate the object of their excursion, nor say one syllable as to its result, and
it could only be inferred from their manner that they were quite satisfied with what they had
seen; and very shortly afterwards Major Oliphant was observed to draw up a lengthy document,
which was no sooner finished than it was formally signed and sealed with the seal of the 33rd
Regiment. It was directed:

 To the First Lord of the Admiralty,
  London,

and kept in readiness for transmission by the first ship that should hail in sight. But time
elapsed, and here was the 18th of February without an opportunity having been afforded for
any communication with the British Government.

At breakfast that morning, the colonel observed to the major that he was under the most decided
impression that the 18th of February was a royal anniversary; and he went on to say that, although
he had received no definite instructions on the subject, he did not think that the peculiar
circumstances under which they found themselves should prevent them from giving the day its
due military honors.

The major quite concurred; and it was mutually agreed that the occasion must be honored by
a bumper of port, and by a royal salute. Corporal Pim must be sent for. The corporal soon made
his appearance, smacking his lips, having, by a ready intuition, found a pretext for a double
morning ration of spirits.

"The 18th of February, you know, Pim," said the colonel; "we must have a salute of twenty-one
guns."

"Very good," replied Pim, a man of few words.

"And take care that your fellows don't get their arms and legs blown off," added the officer.

"Very good, sir," said the corporal; and he made his salute and withdrew.

Of all the bombs, howitzers, and various species of artillery with which the fortress had been
crowded, one solitary piece remained. This was a cumbrous muzzle-loader of 9-inch caliber,
and, in default of the smaller ordnance generally employed for the purpose, had to be brought
into requisition for the royal salute.

A sufficient number of charges having been provided, the corporal brought his men to the reduct,
whence the gun's mouth projected over a sloping embrasure. The two officers, in cocked hats
and full staff uniform, attended to take charge of the proceedings. The gun was maneuvered
in strict accordance with the rules of "The Artilleryman's Manual," and the firing commenced.

Not unmindful of the warning he had received, the corporal was most careful between each discharge
to see that every vestige of fire was extinguished, so as to prevent an untimely explosion
while the men were reloading; and accidents, such as so frequently mar public rejoicings, were
all happily avoided.

Much to the chagrin of both Colonel Murphy and Major Oliphant, the effect of the salute fell
altogether short of their anticipations. The weight of the atmosphere was so reduced that there
was comparatively little resistance to the explosive force of the gases, liberated at the cannon's
mouth, and there was consequently none of the reverberation, like rolling thunder, that ordinarily
follows the discharge of heavy artillery.

Twenty times had the gun been fired, and it was on the point of being loaded for the last time,
when the colonel laid his hand upon the arm of the man who had the ramrod. "Stop!" he said;
"we will have a ball this time. Let us put the range of the piece to the test."

"A good idea!" replied the major. "Corporal, you hear the orders."

In quick time an artillery-wagon was on the spot, and the men lifted out a full-sized shot,
weighing 200 lbs., which, under ordinary circumstances, the cannon would carry about four miles.
It was proposed, by means of telescopes, to note the place where the ball first touched the
water, and thus to obtain an approximation sufficiently accurate as to the true range.

Having been duly charged with powder and ball, the gun was raised to an angle of something
under 45 degrees, so as to allow proper development to the curve that the projectile would
make, and, at a signal from the major, the light was applied to the priming.

"Heavens!" "By all that's good!" exclaimed both officers in one breath, as, standing open-mouthed,
they hardly knew whether they were to believe the evidence of their own senses. "Is it possible?"

The diminution of the force of attraction at the earth's surface was so considerable that the
ball had sped beyond the horizon.

"Incredible!" ejaculated the colonel.

"Incredible!" echoed the major.

"Six miles at least!" observed the one.

"Ay, more than that!" replied the other.

Awhile, they gazed at the sea and at each other in mute amazement. But in the midst of their
perplexity, what sound was that which startled them? Was it mere fancy? Was it the reverberation
of the cannon still booming in their ears? Or was it not truly the report of another and a
distant gun in answer to their own? Attentively and eagerly they listened. Twice, thrice did
the sound repeat itself. It was quite distinct. There could be no mistake.

"I told you so," cried the colonel, triumphantly. "I knew our country would not forsake us;
it is an English ship, no doubt."

In half an hour two masts were visible above the horizon. "See! Was I not right? Our country
was sure to send to our relief. Here is the ship."

"Yes," replied the major; "she responded to our gun."

"It is to be hoped," muttered the corporal, "that our ball has done her no damage."

Before long the hull was full in sight. A long trail of smoke betokened her to be a steamer;
and very soon, by the aid of the glass, it could be ascertained that she was a schooner-yacht,
and making straight for the island. A flag at her mast-head fluttered in the breeze, and towards
this the two officers, with the keenest attention, respectively adjusted their focus.

Simultaneously the two telescopes were lowered. The colonel and the major stared at each other
in blank astonishment. "Russian!" they gasped.

And true it was that the flag that floated at the head of yonder mast was the blue cross of Russia.

CHAPTER XIV. SENSITIVE NATIONALITY

When the schooner had approached the island, the Englishmen were able to make out the name
"Dobryna" painted on the aft-board. A sinuous irregularity of the coast had formed a kind of
cove, which, though hardly spacious enough for a few fishing-smacks, would afford the yacht
a temporary anchorage, so long as the wind did not blow violently from either west or south.
Into this cove the Dobryna was duly signaled, and as soon as she was safely moored, she lowered
her four-oar, and Count Timascheff and Captain Servadac made their way at once to land. Captain
Servadac, with the uncontrolled vivacity natural to a Frenchman, was the first to speak.

"A joyful sight, gentlemen!" he exclaimed. "It will give us unbounded pleasure to shake hands
again with some of our fellow-creatures. You, no doubt, have escaped the same disaster as ourselves."

But the English officers, neither by word nor gesture, made the slightest acknowledgment of
this familiar greeting.

"What news can you give us of France, England, or Russia?" continued Servadac, perfectly unconscious
of the stolid rigidity with which his advances were received. "We are anxious to hear anything
you can tell us. Have you had communications with Europe? Have you--"

"To whom have we the honor of speaking?" at last interposed Colonel Murphy, in the coldest
and most measured tone, and drawing himself up to his full height.

"Ah! how stupid! I forgot," said Servadac, with the slightest possible shrug of the shoulders;
"we have not been introduced."

Then, with a wave of his hand towards his companion, who meanwhile had exhibited a reserve
hardly less than that of the British officers, he said:

"Allow me to introduce you to Count Wassili Timascheff."

"Major Sir John Temple Oliphant," replied the colonel.

The Russian and the Englishman mutually exchanged the stiffest of bows.

"I have the pleasure of introducing Captain Servadac," said the count in his turn.

"And this is Colonel Heneage Finch Murphy," was the major's grave rejoinder.

More bows were interchanged and the ceremony brought to its due conclusion. It need hardly
be said that the conversation had been carried on in French, a language which is generally
known both by Russians and Englishmen--a circumstance that is probably in some measure to be
accounted for by the refusal of Frenchmen to learn either Russian or English.

The formal preliminaries of etiquette being thus complete, there was no longer any obstacle
to a freer intercourse. The colonel, signing to his guests to follow, led the way to the apartment
occupied jointly by himself and the major, which, although only a kind of casemate hollowed
in the rock, nevertheless wore a general air of comfort. Major Oliphant accompanied them, and
all four having taken their seats, the conversation was commenced.

Irritated and disgusted at all the cold formalities, Hector Servadac resolved to leave all
the talking to the count; and he, quite aware that the Englishmen would adhere to the fiction
that they could be supposed to know nothing that had transpired previous to the introduction
felt himself obliged to recapitulate matters from the very beginning.

"You must be aware, gentlemen," began the count, "that a most singular catastrophe occurred
on the 1st of January last. Its cause, its limits we have utterly failed to discover, but from
the appearance of the island on which we find you here, you have evidently experienced its
devastating consequences."

The Englishmen, in silence, bowed assent.

"Captain Servadac, who accompanies me," continued the count, "has been most severely tried
by the disaster. Engaged as he was in an important mission as a staff-officer in Algeria--"

"A French colony, I believe," interposed Major Oliphant, half shutting his eyes with an expression
of supreme indifference.

Servadac was on the point of making some cutting retort, but Count Timascheff, without allowing
the interruption to be noticed, calmly continued his narrative:

"It was near the mouth of the Shelif that a portion of Africa, on that eventful night, was
transformed into an island which alone survived; the rest of the vast continent disappeared
as completely as if it had never been."

The announcement seemed by no means startling to the phlegmatic colonel.

"Indeed!" was all he said.

"And where were you?" asked Major Oliphant.

"I was out at sea, cruising in my yacht; hard by; and I look upon it as a miracle, and nothing
less, that I and my crew escaped with our lives."

"I congratulate you on your luck," replied the major.

The count resumed: "It was about a month after the great disruption that I was sailing--my
engine having sustained some damage in the shock--along the Algerian coast, and had the pleasure
of meeting with my previous acquaintance, Captain Servadac, who was resident upon the island
with his orderly, Ben Zoof."

"Ben who?" inquired the major.

"Zoof! Ben Zoof!" ejaculated Servadac, who could scarcely shout loud enough to relieve his
pent-up feelings.

Ignoring this ebullition of the captain's spleen, the count went on to say: "Captain Servadac
was naturally most anxious to get what news he could. Accordingly, he left his servant on the
island in charge of his horses, and came on board the Dobryna with me. We were quite at a loss
to know where we should steer, but decided to direct our course to what previously had been
the east, in order that we might, if possible, discover the colony of Algeria; but of Algeria
not a trace remained."

The colonel curled his lip, insinuating only too plainly that to him it was by no means surprising
that a French colony should be wanting in the element of stability. Servadac observed the supercilious
look, and half rose to his feet, but, smothering his resentment, took his seat again without
speaking.

"The devastation, gentlemen," said the count, who persistently refused to recognize the Frenchman's
irritation, "everywhere was terrible and complete. Not only was Algeria lost, but there was
no trace of Tunis, except one solitary rock, which was crowned by an ancient tomb of one of
the kings of France--"

"Louis the Ninth, I presume," observed the colonel.

"Saint Louis," blurted out Servadac, savagely.

Colonel Murphy slightly smiled.

Proof against all interruption, Count Timascheff, as if he had not heard it, went on without
pausing. He related how the schooner had pushed her way onwards to the south, and had reached
the Gulf of Cabes; and how she had ascertained for certain that the Sahara Sea had no longer
an existence.

The smile of disdain again crossed the colonel's face; he could not conceal his opinion that
such a destiny for the work of a Frenchman could be no matter of surprise.

"Our next discovery," continued the count, "was that a new coast had been upheaved right along
in front of the coast of Tripoli, the geological formation of which was altogether strange,
and which extended to the north as far as the proper place of Malta."

"And Malta," cried Servadac, unable to control himself any longer; "Malta--town, forts, soldiers,
governor, and all--has vanished just like Algeria."

For a moment a cloud rested upon the colonel's brow, only to give place to an expression of
decided incredulity.

"The statement seems highly incredible," he said.

"Incredible?" repeated Servadac. "Why is it that you doubt my word?"

The captain's rising wrath did not prevent the colonel from replying coolly, "Because Malta
belongs to England."

"I can't help that," answered Servadac, sharply; "it has gone just as utterly as if it had
belonged to China."

Colonel Murphy turned deliberately away from Servadac, and appealed to the count: "Do you not
think you may have made some error, count, in reckoning the bearings of your yacht?"

"No, colonel, I am quite certain of my reckonings; and not only can I testify that Malta has
disappeared, but I can affirm that a large section of the Mediterranean has been closed in
by a new continent. After the most anxious investigation, we could discover only one narrow
opening in all the coast, and it is by following that little channel that we have made our
way hither. England, I fear, has suffered grievously by the late catastrophe. Not only has
Malta been entirely lost, but of the Ionian Islands that were under England's protection, there
seems to be but little left."

"Ay, you may depend upon it," said Servadac, breaking in upon the conversation petulantly,
"your grand resident lord high commissioner has not much to congratulate himself about in the
condition of Corfu."

The Englishmen were mystified.

"Corfu, did you say?" asked Major Oliphant.

"Yes, Corfu; I said Corfu," replied Servadac, with a sort of malicious triumph.

The officers were speechless with astonishment.

The silence of bewilderment was broken at length by Count Timascheff making inquiry whether
nothing had been heard from England, either by telegraph or by any passing ship.

"No," said the colonel; "not a ship has passed; and the cable is broken."

"But do not the Italian telegraphs assist you?" continued the count.

"Italian! I do not comprehend you. You must mean the Spanish, surely."

"How?" demanded Timascheff.

"Confound it!" cried the impatient Servadac. "What matters whether it be Spanish or Italian?
Tell us, have you had no communication at all from Europe?--no news of any sort from London?"

"Hitherto, none whatever," replied the colonel; adding with a stately emphasis, "but we shall
be sure to have tidings from England before long."

"Whether England is still in existence or not, I suppose," said Servadac, in a tone of irony.

The Englishmen started simultaneously to their feet.

"England in existence?" the colonel cried. "England! Ten times more probable that France--"

"France!" shouted Servadac in a passion. "France is not an island that can be submerged; France
is an integral portion of a solid continent. France, at least, is safe."

A scene appeared inevitable, and Count Timascheff's efforts to conciliate the excited parties
were of small avail.

"You are at home here," said Servadac, with as much calmness as he could command; "it will
be advisable, I think, for this discussion to be carried on in the open air." And hurriedly
he left the room. Followed immediately by the others, he led the way to a level piece of ground,
which he considered he might fairly claim as neutral territory.

"Now, gentlemen," he began haughtily, "permit me to represent that, in spite of any loss France
may have sustained in the fate of Algeria, France is ready to answer any provocation that affects
her honor. Here I am the representative of my country, and here, on neutral ground--"

"Neutral ground?" objected Colonel Murphy; "I beg your pardon. This, Captain Servadac, is English
territory. Do you not see the English flag?" and, as he spoke, he pointed with national pride
to the British standard floating over the top of the island.

"Pshaw!" cried Servadac, with a contemptuous sneer; "that flag, you know, has been hoisted
but a few short weeks."

"That flag has floated where it is for ages," asserted the colonel.

"An imposture!" shouted Servadac, as he stamped with rage.

Recovering his composure in a degree, he continued: "Can you suppose that I am not aware that
this island on which we find you is what remains of the Ionian representative republic, over
which you English exercise the right of protection, but have no claim of government?"

The colonel and the major looked at each other in amazement.

Although Count Timascheff secretly sympathized with Servadac, he had carefully refrained from
taking part in the dispute; but he was on the point of interfering, when the colonel, in a
greatly subdued tone, begged to be allowed to speak.

"I begin to apprehend," he said, "that you must be la-boring under some strange mistake. There
is no room for questioning that the territory here is England's--England's by right of conquest;
ceded to England by the Treaty of Utrecht. Three times, indeed--in 1727, 1779, and 1792--France
and Spain have disputed our title, but always to no purpose. You are, I assure you, at the
present moment, as much on English soil as if you were in London, in the middle of Trafalgar
Square."

It was now the turn of the captain and the count to look surprised. "Are we not, then, in Corfu?"
they asked.

"You are at Gibraltar," replied the colonel.

Gibraltar! The word fell like a thunderclap upon their ears. Gibraltar! the western extremity
of the Mediterranean! Why, had they not been sailing persistently to the east? Could they be
wrong in imagining that they had reached the Ionian Islands? What new mystery was this?

Count Timascheff was about to proceed with a more rigorous investigation, when the attention
of all was arrested by a loud outcry. Turning round, they saw that the crew of the Dobryna
was in hot dispute with the English soldiers. A general altercation had arisen from a disagreement
between the sailor Panofka and Corporal Pim. It had transpired that the cannon-ball fired in
experiment from the island had not only damaged one of the spars of the schooner, but had broken
Panofka's pipe, and, moreover, had just grazed his nose, which, for a Russian's, was unusually
long. The discussion over this mishap led to mutual recriminations, till the sailors had almost
come to blows with the garrison.

Servadac was just in the mood to take Panofka's part, which drew from Major Oliphant the remark
that England could not be held responsible for any accidental injury done by her cannon, and
if the Russian's long nose came in the way of the ball, the Russian must submit to the mischance.

This was too much for Count Timascheff, and having poured out a torrent of angry invective
against the English officers, he ordered his crew to embark immediately.

"We shall meet again," said Servadac, as they pushed off from shore.

"Whenever you please," was the cool reply.

The geographical mystery haunted the minds of both the count and the captain, and they felt
they could never rest till they had ascertained what had become of their respective countries.
They were glad to be on board again, that they might résumé their voyage of investigation,
and in two hours were out of sight of the sole remaining fragment of Gibraltar.

CHAPTER XV. AN ENIGMA FROM THE SEA

Lieutenant Procope had been left on board in charge of the Dobryna, and on resuming the voyage
it was a task of some difficulty to make him understand the fact that had just come to light.
Some hours were spent in discussion and in attempting to penetrate the mysteries of the situation.

There were certain things of which they were perfectly certain. They could be under no misapprehension
as to the distance they had positively sailed from Gourbi Island towards the east before their
further progress was arrested by the unknown shore; as nearly as possible that was fifteen
degrees; the length of the narrow strait by which they had made their way across that land
to regain the open sea was about three miles and a half; thence onward to the island, which
they had been assured, on evidence that they could not disbelieve, to be upon the site of Gibraltar,
was four degrees; while from Gibraltar to Gourbi Island was seven degrees or but little more.
What was it altogether? Was it not less than thirty degrees? In that latitude, the degree of
longitude represents eight and forty miles. What, then, did it all amount to? Indubitably,
to less than 1,400 miles. So brief a voyage would bring the Dobryna once again to her starting-point,
or, in other words, would enable her to complete the circumnavigation of the globe. How changed
the condition of things! Previously, to sail from Malta to Gibraltar by an eastward course
would have involved the passage of the Suez Canal, the Red Sea, the Indian Ocean, the Pacific,
the Atlantic; but what had happened now? Why, Gibraltar had been reached as if it had been
just at Corfu, and some three hundred and thirty degrees of the earth's circuit had vanished
utterly.

After allowing for a certain margin of miscalculation, the main fact remained undeniable; and
the necessary inference that Lieutenant Procope drew from the round of the earth being completed
in 1,400 miles, was that the earth's diameter had been reduced by about fifteen sixteenths
of its length.

"If that be so," observed the count, "it accounts for some of the strange phenomena we witness.
If our world has become so insignificant a spheroid, not only has its gravity diminished, but
its rotary speed has been accelerated; and this affords an adequate explanation of our days
and nights being thus curtailed. But how about the new orbit in which we are moving?"

He paused and pondered, and then looked at Procope as though awaiting from him some further
elucidation of the difficulty. The lieutenant hesitated. When, in a few moments, he began to
speak, Servadac smiled intelligently, anticipating the answer he was about to hear.

"My conjecture is," said Procope, "that a fragment of considerable magnitude has been detached
from the earth; that it has carried with it an envelope of the earth's atmosphere, and that
it is now traveling through the solar system in an orbit that does not correspond at all with
the proper orbit of the earth."

The hypothesis was plausible; but what a multitude of bewildering speculations it entailed!
If, in truth, a certain mass had been broken off from the terrestrial sphere, whither would
it wend its way? What would be the measure of the eccentricity of its path? What would be its
period round the sun? Might it not, like a comet, be carried away into the vast infinity of
space? or, on the other hand, might it not be attracted to the great central source of light
and heat, and be absorbed in it? Did its orbit correspond with the orbit of the ecliptic? and
was there no chance of its ever uniting again with the globe, from which it had been torn off
by so sudden and violent a disruption?

A thoughtful silence fell upon them all, which Servadac was the first to break. "Lieutenant,"
he said, "your explanation is ingenious, and accounts for many appearances; but it seems to
me that in one point it fails."

"How so?" replied Procope. "To my mind the theory meets all objections."

"I think not," Servadac answered. "In one point, at least, it appears to me to break down completely."

"What is that?" asked the lieutenant.

"Stop a moment," said the captain. "Let us see that we understand each other right. Unless
I mistake you, your hypothesis is that a fragment of the earth, comprising the Mediterranean
and its shores from Gibraltar to Malta, has been developed into a new asteroid, which is started
on an independent orbit in the solar regions. Is not that your meaning?"

"Precisely so," the lieutenant acquiesced.

"Well, then," continued Servadac, "it seems to me to be at fault in this respect: it fails,
and fails completely, to account for the geological character of the land that we have found
now encompassing this sea. Why, if the new land is a fragment of the old--why does it not retain
its old formation? What has become of the granite and the calcareous deposits? How is it that
these should all be changed into a mineral concrete with which we have no acquaintance?"

No doubt, it was a serious objection; for, however likely it might be that a mass of the earth
on being detached would be eccentric in its movements, there was no probable reason to be alleged
why the material of its substance should undergo so complete a change. There was nothing to
account for the fertile shores, rich in vegetation, being transformed into rocks arid and barren
beyond precedent.

The lieutenant felt the difficulty, and owned himself unprepared to give at once an adequate
solution; nevertheless, he declined to renounce his theory. He asserted that the arguments
in favor of it carried conviction to his mind, and that he entertained no doubt but that, in
the course of time, all apparently antagonistic circumstances would be explained so as to become
consistent with the view he took. He was careful, however, to make it understood that with
respect to the original cause of the disruption he had no theory to offer; and although he
knew what expansion might be the result of subterranean forces, he did not venture to say that
he considered it sufficient to produce so tremendous an effect. The origin of the catastrophe
was a problem still to be solved.

"Ah! well," said Servadac, "I don't know that it matters much where our new little planet comes
from, or what it is made of, if only it carries France along with it."

"And Russia," added the count.

"And Russia, of course," said Servadac, with a polite bow.

There was, however, not much room for this sanguine expectation, for if a new asteroid had
thus been brought into existence, it must be a sphere of extremely limited dimensions, and
there could be little chance that it embraced more than the merest fraction of either France
or Russia. As to England, the total cessation of all telegraphic communication between her
shores and Gibraltar was a virtual proof that England was beyond its compass.

And what was the true measurement of the new little world? At Gourbi Island the days and nights
were of equal length, and this seemed to indicate that it was situated on the equator; hence
the distance by which the two poles stood apart would be half what had been reckoned would
be the distance completed by the Dobryna in her circuit. That distance had been already estimated
to be something under 1,400 miles, so that the Arctic Pole of their recently fashioned world
must be about 350 miles to the north, and the Antarctic about 350 miles to the south of the
island. Compare these calculations with the map, and it is at once apparent that the northernmost
limit barely touched the coast of Provence, while the southernmost reached to about lat. 20
degrees N., and fell in the heart of the desert. The practical test of these conclusions would
be made by future investigation, but meanwhile the fact appeared very much to strengthen the
presumption that, if Lieutenant Procope had not arrived at the whole truth, he had made a considerable
advance towards it.

The weather, ever since the storm that had driven the Dobryna into the creek, had been magnificent.
The wind continued favorable, and now under both steam and canvas, she made a rapid progress
towards the north, a direction in which she was free to go in consequence of the total disappearance
of the Spanish coast, from Gibraltar right away to Alicante. Malaga, Almeria, Cape Gata, Carthagena.
Cape Palos--all were gone. The sea was rolling over the southern extent of the peninsula, so
that the yacht advanced to the latitude of Seville before it sighted any land at all, and then,
not shores such as the shores of Andalusia, but a bluff and precipitous cliff, in its geological
features resembling exactly the stern and barren rock that she had coasted beyond the site
of Malta. Here the sea made a decided indentation on the coast; it ran up in an acute-angled
triangle till its apex coincided with the very spot upon which Madrid had stood. But as hitherto
the sea had encroached upon the land, the land in its turn now encroached upon the sea; for
a frowning headland stood out far into the basin of the Mediterranean, and formed a promontory
stretching out beyond the proper places of the Balearic Isles. Curiosity was all alive. There
was the intensest interest awakened to determine whether no vestige could be traced of Majorca,
Minorca, or any of the group, and it was during a deviation from the direct course for the
purpose of a more thorough scrutiny, that one of the sailors raised a thrill of general excitement
by shouting, "A bottle in the sea!"

Here, then, at length was a communication from the outer world. Surely now they would find
a document which would throw some light upon all the mysteries that had happened? Had not the
day now dawned that should set their speculations all at rest?

It was the morning of the 21st of February. The count, the captain, the lieutenant, everybody
hurried to the forecastle; the schooner was dexterously put about, and all was eager impatience
until the supposed bottle was hauled on deck.

It was not, however, a bottle; it proved to be a round leather telescope-case, about a foot
long, and the first thing to do before investigating its contents was to make a careful examination
of its exterior. The lid was fastened on by wax, and so securely that it would take a long
immersion before any water could penetrate; there was no maker's name to be deciphered; but
impressed very plainly with a seal on the wax were the two initials "P. R."

When the scrutiny of the outside was finished, the wax was removed and the cover opened, and
the lieutenant drew out a slip of ruled paper, evidently torn from a common note-book. The
paper had an inscription written in four lines, which were remarkable for the profusion of
notes of admiration and interrogation with which they were interspersed:

     "Gallia???
     Ab sole, au 15 fev. 59,000,000 l.!
     Chemin parcouru de janv. a fev. 82,000,000 l.!!
     Va bene! All right!! Parfait!!!"

There was a general sigh of disappointment. They turned the paper over and over, and handed
it from one to another. "What does it all mean?" exclaimed the count.

"Something mysterious here!" said Servadac. "But yet," he continued, after a pause, "one thing
is tolerably certain: on the 15th, six days ago, someone was alive to write it."

"Yes; I presume there is no reason to doubt the accuracy of the date," assented the count.

To this strange conglomeration of French, English, Italian, and Latin, there was no signature
attached; nor was there anything to give a clue as to the locality in which it had been committed
to the waves. A telescope-case would probably be the property of some one on board a ship;
and the figures obviously referred to the astronomical wonders that had been experienced.

To these general observations Captain Servadac objected that he thought it unlikely that any
one on board a ship would use a telescope-case for this purpose, but would be sure to use a
bottle as being more secure; and, accordingly, he should rather be inclined to believe that
the message had been set afloat by some savant left alone, perchance, upon some isolated coast.

"But, however interesting it might be," observed the count, "to know the author of the lines,
to us it is of far greater moment to ascertain their meaning."

And taking up the paper again, he said, "Perhaps we might analyze it word by word, and from
its detached parts gather some clue to its sense as a whole."

"What can be the meaning of all that cluster of interrogations after Gallia?" asked Servadac.

Lieutenant Procope, who had hitherto not spoken, now broke his silence by saying, "I beg, gentlemen,
to submit my opinion that this document goes very far to confirm my hypothesis that a fragment
of the earth has been precipitated into space."

Captain Servadac hesitated, and then replied, "Even if it does, I do not see how it accounts
in the least for the geological character of the new asteroid."

"But will you allow me for one minute to take my supposition for granted?" said Procope. "If
a new little planet has been formed, as I imagine, by disintegration from the old, I should
conjecture that Gallia is the name assigned to it by the writer of this paper. The very notes
of interrogation are significant that he was in doubt what he should write."

"You would presume that he was a Frenchman?" asked the count.

"I should think so," replied the lieutenant.

"Not much doubt about that," said Servadac; "it is all in French, except a few scattered words
of English, Latin, and Italian, inserted to attract attention. He could not tell into whose
hands the message would fall first."

"Well, then," said Count Timascheff, "we seem to have found a name for the new world we occupy."

"But what I was going especially to observe," continued the lieutenant, "is that the distance,
59,000,000 leagues, represents precisely the distance we ourselves were from the sun on the
15th. It was on that day we crossed the orbit of Mars."

"Yes, true," assented the others.

"And the next line," said the lieutenant, after reading it aloud, "apparently registers the
distance traversed by Gallia, the new little planet, in her own orbit. Her speed, of course,
we know by Kepler's laws, would vary according to her distance from the sun, and if she were--as
I conjecture from the temperature at that date--on the 15th of January at her perihelion, she
would be traveling twice as fast as the earth, which moves at the rate of between 50,000 and
60,000 miles an hour."

"You think, then," said Servadac, with a smile, "you have determined the perihelion of our
orbit; but how about the aphelion? Can you form a judgment as to what distance we are likely
to be carried?"

"You are asking too much," remonstrated the count.

"I confess," said the lieutenant, "that just at present I am not able to clear away the uncertainty
of the future; but I feel confident that by careful observation at various points we shall
arrive at conclusions which not only will determine our path, but perhaps may clear up the
mystery about our geological structure."

"Allow me to ask," said Count Timascheff, "whether such a new asteroid would not be subject
to ordinary mechanical laws, and whether, once started, it would not have an orbit that must
be immutable?"

"Decidedly it would, so long as it was undisturbed by the attraction of some considerable body;
but we must recollect that, compared to the great planets, Gallia must be almost infinitesimally
small, and so might be attracted by a force that is irresistible."

"Altogether, then," said Servadac, "we seem to have settled it to our entire satisfaction that
we must be the population of a young little world called Gallia. Perhaps some day we may have
the honor of being registered among the minor planets."

"No chance of that," quickly rejoined Lieutenant Procope. "Those minor planets all are known
to rotate in a narrow zone between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter; in their perihelia they
cannot approximate the sun as we have done; we shall not be classed with them."

"Our lack of instruments," said the count, "is much to be deplored; it baffles our investigations
in every way."

"Ah, never mind! Keep up your courage, count!" said Servadac, cheerily.

And Lieutenant Procope renewed his assurances that he entertained good hopes that every perplexity
would soon be solved.

"I suppose," remarked the count, "that we cannot attribute much importance to the last line:
'Va bene! All right!! Parfait!!!'"

The captain answered, "At least, it shows that whoever wrote it had no murmuring or complaint
to make, but was quite content with the new order of things."

CHAPTER XVI. THE RESIDUUM OF A CONTINENT

Almost unconsciously, the voyagers in the Dobryna fell into the habit of using Gallia as the
name of the new world in which they became aware they must be making an extraordinary excursion
through the realms of space. Nothing, however, was allowed to divert them from their ostensible
object of making a survey of the coast of the Mediterranean, and accordingly they persevered
in following that singular boundary which had revealed itself to their extreme astonishment.

Having rounded the great promontory that had barred her farther progress to the north, the
schooner skirted its upper edge. A few more leagues and they ought to be abreast of the shores
of France. Yes, of France.

But who shall describe the feelings of Hector Servadac when, instead of the charming outline
of his native land, he beheld nothing but a solid boundary of savage rock? Who shall paint
the look of consternation with which he gazed upon the stony rampart--rising perpendicularly
for a thousand feet--that had replaced the shores of the smiling south? Who shall reveal the
burning anxiety with which he throbbed to see beyond that cruel wall?

But there seemed no hope. Onwards and onwards the yacht made her way, and still no sign of
France. It might have been supposed that Servadac's previous experiences would have prepared
him for the discovery that the catastrophe which had overwhelmed other sites had brought destruction
to his own country as well. But he had failed to realize how it might extend to France; and
when now he was obliged with his own eyes to witness the waves of ocean rolling over what once
had been the lovely shores of Provence, he was well-nigh frantic with desperation.

"Am I to believe that Gourbi Island, that little shred of Algeria, constitutes all that is
left of our glorious France? No, no; it cannot be. Not yet have we reached the pole of our
new world. There is--there must be--something more behind that frowning rock. Oh, that for
a moment we could scale its towering height and look beyond! By Heaven, I adjure you, let us
disembark, and mount the summit and explore! France lies beyond."

Disembarkation, however, was an utter impossibility. There was no semblance of a creek in which
the Dobryna could find an anchorage. There was no outlying ridge on which a footing could be
gained. The precipice was perpendicular as a wall, its topmost height crowned with the same
conglomerate of crystallized lamellae that had all along been so pronounced a feature.

With her steam at high pressure, the yacht made rapid progress towards the east. The weather
remained perfectly fine, the temperature became gradually cooler, so that there was little
prospect of vapors accumulating in the atmosphere; and nothing more than a few cirri, almost
transparent, veiled here and there the clear azure of the sky. Throughout the day the pale
rays of the sun, apparently lessened in its magnitude, cast only faint and somewhat uncertain
shadows; but at night the stars shone with surpassing brilliancy. Of the planets, some, it
was observed, seemed to be fading away in remote distance. This was the case with Mars, Venus,
and that unknown orb which was moving in the orbit of the minor planets; but Jupiter, on the
other hand, had assumed splendid proportions; Saturn was superb in its luster, and Uranus,
which hitherto had been imperceptible without a telescope was pointed out by Lieutenant Procope,
plainly visible to the naked eye. The inference was irresistible that Gallia was receding from
the sun, and traveling far away across the planetary regions.

On the 24th of February, after following the sinuous course of what before the date of the
convulsion had been the coast line of the department of Var, and after a fruitless search for
Hyeres, the peninsula of St. Tropez, the Lerius Islands, and the gulfs of Cannes and Jouar,
the Dobryna arrived upon the site of the Cape of Antibes.

Here, quite unexpectedly, the explorers made the discovery that the massive wall of cliff had
been rent from the top to the bottom by a narrow rift, like the dry bed of a mountain torrent,
and at the base of the opening, level with the sea, was a little strand upon which there was
just space enough for their boat to be hauled up.

"Joy! joy!" shouted Servadac, half beside himself with ecstasy; "we can land at last!"

Count Timascheff and the lieutenant were scarcely less impatient than the captain, and little
needed his urgent and repeated solicitations: "Come on! Quick! Come on! no time to lose!"

It was half-past seven in the morning, when they set their foot upon this untried land. The
bit of strand was only a few square yards in area, quite a narrow strip. Upon it might have
been recognized some fragments of that agglutination of yellow limestone which is characteristic
of the coast of Provence. But the whole party was far too eager to wait and examine these remnants
of the ancient shore; they hurried on to scale the heights.

The narrow ravine was not only perfectly dry, but manifestly had never been the bed of any
mountain torrent. The rocks that rested at the bottom--just as those which formed its sides--were
of the same lamellous formation as the entire coast, and had not hitherto been subject to the
disaggregation which the lapse of time never fails to work. A skilled geologist would probably
have been able to assign them their proper scientific classification, but neither Servadac,
Timascheff, nor the lieutenant could pretend to any acquaintance with their specific character.

Although, however, the bottom of the chasm had never as yet been the channel of a stream, indications
were not wanting that at some future time it would be the natural outlet of accumulated waters;
for already, in many places, thin layers of snow were glittering upon the surface of the fractured
rocks, and the higher the elevation that was gained, the more these layers were found to increase
in area and in depth.

"Here is a trace of fresh water, the first that Gallia has exhibited," said the count to his
companions, as they toiled up the precipitous path.

"And probably," replied the lieutenant, "as we ascend we shall find not only snow but ice.
We must suppose this Gallia of ours to be a sphere, and if it is so, we must now be very close
to her Arctic regions; it is true that her axis is not so much inclined as to prolong day and
night as at the poles of the earth, but the rays of the sun must reach us here only very obliquely,
and the cold, in all likelihood, will be intense."

"So cold, do you think," asked Servadac, "that animal life must be extinct?"

"I do not say that, captain," answered the lieutenant; "for, however far our little world may
be removed from the sun, I do not see why its temperature should fall below what prevails in
those outlying regions beyond our system where sky and air are not." "And what temperature
may that be?" inquired the captain with a shudder.

"Fourier estimates that even in those vast unfathomable tracts, the temperature never descends
lower than 60 degrees," said Procope.

"Sixty! Sixty degrees below zero!" cried the count. "Why, there's not a Russian could endure it!"

"I beg your pardon, count. It is placed on record that the English have survived it, or something
quite approximate, upon their Arctic expeditions. When Captain Parry was on Melville Island,
he knew the thermometer to fall to 56 degrees," said Procope.

As the explorers advanced, they seemed glad to pause from time to time, that they might recover
their breath; for the air, becoming more and more rarefied, made respiration somewhat difficult
and the ascent fatiguing. Before they had reached an altitude of 600 feet they noticed a sensible
diminution of the temperature; but neither cold nor fatigue deterred them, and they were resolved
to persevere. Fortunately, the deep striae or furrows in the surface of the rocks that made
the bottom of the ravine in some degree facilitated their progress, but it was not until they
had been toiling up for two hours more that they succeeded in reaching the summit of the cliff.

Eagerly and anxiously did they look around. To the south there was nothing but the sea they
had traversed; to the north, nothing but one drear, inhospitable stretch.

Servadac could not suppress a cry of dismay. Where was his beloved France? Had he gained this
arduous height only to behold the rocks carpeted with ice and snow, and reaching interminably
to the far-off horizon? His heart sank within him.

The whole region appeared to consist of nothing but the same strange, uniform mineral conglomerate,
crystallized into regular hexagonal prisms. But whatever was its geological character, it was
only too evident that it had entirely replaced the former soil, so that not a vestige of the
old continent of Europe could be discerned. The lovely scenery of Provence, with the grace
of its rich and undulating landscape; its gardens of citrons and oranges rising tier upon tier
from the deep red soil--all, all had vanished. Of the vegetable kingdom, there was not a single
representative; the most meager of Arctic plants, the most insignificant of lichens, could
obtain no hold upon that stony waste. Nor did the animal world assert the feeblest sway. The
mineral kingdom reigned supreme.

Captain Servadac's deep dejection was in strange contrast to his general hilarity. Silent and
tearful, he stood upon an ice-bound rock, straining his eyes across the boundless vista of
the mysterious territory. "It cannot be!" he exclaimed. "We must somehow have mistaken our
bearings. True, we have encountered this barrier; but France is there beyond! Yes, France is
there! Come, count, come! By all that's pitiful, I entreat you, come and explore the farthest
verge of the ice-bound track!"

He pushed onwards along the rugged surface of the rock, but had not proceeded far before he
came to a sudden pause. His foot had come in contact with something hard beneath the snow,
and, stooping down, he picked up a little block of stony substance, which the first glance
revealed to be of a geological character altogether alien to the universal rocks around. It
proved to be a fragment of dis-colored marble, on which several letters were inscribed, of
which the only part at all decipherable was the syllable "Vil."

"Vil--Villa!" he cried out, in his excitement dropping the marble, which was broken into atoms
by the fall.

What else could this fragment be but the sole surviving remnant of some sumptuous mansion that
once had stood on this unrivaled site? Was it not the residue of some edifice that had crowned
the luxuriant headland of Antibes, overlooking Nice, and commanding the gorgeous panorama that
embraced the Maritime Alps and reached beyond Monaco and Mentone to the Italian height of Bordighera?
And did it not give in its sad and too convincing testimony that Antibes itself had been involved
in the great destruction? Servadac gazed upon the shattered marble, pensive and disheartened.

Count Timascheff laid his hand kindly on the captain's shoulder, and said, "My friend, do you
not remember the motto of the old Hope family?"

He shook his head mournfully.

"Orbe fracto, spes illoesa," continued the count--"Though the world be shattered, hope is unimpaired."

Servadac smiled faintly, and replied that he felt rather compelled to take up the despairing
cry of Dante, "All hope abandon, ye who enter here."

"Nay, not so," answered the count; "for the present at least, let our maxim be Nil desperandum!"

CHAPTER XVII. A SECOND ENIGMA

Upon re-embarking, the bewildered explorers began to discuss the question whether it would
not now be desirable to make their way back to Gourbi Island, which was apparently the only
spot in their new world from which they could hope to derive their future sustenance. Captain
Servadac tried to console himself with the reflection that Gourbi Island was, after all, a
fragment of a French colony, and as such almost like a bit of his dear France; and the plan
of returning thither was on the point of being adopted, when Lieutenant Procope remarked that
they ought to remember that they had not hitherto made an entire circuit of the new shores
of the sea on which they were sailing.

"We have," he said, "neither investigated the northern shore from the site of Cape Antibes
to the strait that brought us to Gibraltar, nor have we followed the southern shore that stretches
from the strait to the Gulf of Cabes. It is the old coast, and not the new, that we have been
tracing; as yet, we cannot say positively that there is no outlet to the south; as yet, we
cannot assert that no oasis of the African desert has escaped the catastrophe. Perhaps, even
here in the north, we may find that Italy and Sicily and the larger islands of the Mediterranean
may still maintain their existence."

"I entirely concur with you," said Count Timascheff. "I quite think we ought to make our survey
of the confines of this new basin as complete as possible before we withdraw."

Servadac, although he acknowledged the justness of these observations, could not help pleading
that the explorations might be deferred until after a visit had been paid to Gourbi Island.

"Depend upon it, captain, you are mistaken," replied the lieutenant; "the right thing to do
is to use the Dobryna while she is available."

"Available! What do you mean?" asked the count, somewhat taken by surprise.

"I mean," said Procope, "that the farther this Gallia of ours recedes from the sun, the lower
the temperature will fall. It is likely enough, I think, that before long the sea will be frozen
over, and navigation will be impossible. Already you have learned something of the difficulties
of traversing a field of ice, and I am sure, therefore, you will acquiesce in my wish to continue
our explorations while the water is still open."

"No doubt you are right, lieutenant," said the count. "We will continue our search while we
can for some remaining fragment of Europe. Who shall tell whether we may not meet with some
more survivors from the catastrophe, to whom it might be in our power to afford assistance,
before we go into our winter quarters?"

Generous and altogether unselfish as this sentiment really was, it was obviously to the general
interest that they should become acquainted, and if possible establish friendly relations,
with any human inhabitant who might be sharing their own strange destiny in being rolled away
upon a new planet into the infinitude of space. All difference of race, all distinction of
nationality, must be merged into the one thought that, few as they were, they were the sole
surviving representatives of a world which it seemed exceedingly improbable that they would
ever see again; and common sense dictated that they were bound to direct all their energies
to insure that their asteroid should at least have a united and sympathizing population.

It was on the 25th of February that the yacht left the little creek in which she had taken
refuge, and setting off at full steam eastwards, she continued her way along the northern shore.
A brisk breeze tended to increase the keenness of the temperature, the thermometer being, on
an average, about two degrees below zero. Salt water freezes only at a lower temperature than
fresh; the course of the Dobryna was therefore unimpeded by ice, but it could not be concealed
that there was the greatest necessity to maintain the utmost possible speed.

The nights continued lovely; the chilled condition of the atmosphere prevented the formation
of clouds; the constellations gleamed forth with unsullied luster; and, much as Lieutenant
Procope, from nautical considerations, might regret the absence of the moon, he could not do
otherwise than own that the magnificent nights of Gallia were such as must awaken the enthusiasm
of an astronomer. And, as if to compensate for the loss of the moonlight, the heavens were
illuminated by a superb shower of falling stars, far exceeding, both in number and in brilliancy,
the phenomena which are commonly distinguished as the August and November meteors; in fact,
Gallia was passing through that meteoric ring which is known to lie exterior to the earth's
orbit, but almost concentric with it. The rocky coast, its metallic surface reflecting the
glow of the dazzling luminaries, appeared literally stippled with light, whilst the sea, as
though spattered with burning hailstones, shone with a phosphorescence that was perfectly splendid.
So great, however, was the speed at which Gallia was receding from the sun, that this meteoric
storm lasted scarcely more than four and twenty hours.

Next day the direct progress of the Dobryna was arrested by a long projection of land, which
obliged her to turn southwards, until she reached what formerly would have been the southern
extremity of Corsica. Of this, however, there was now no trace; the Strait of Bonifacio had
been replaced by a vast expanse of water, which had at first all the appearance of being utterly
desert; but on the following morning the explorers unexpectedly sighted a little island, which,
unless it should prove, as was only too likely, to be of recent origin they concluded, from
its situation, must be a portion of the northernmost territory of Sardinia.

The Dobryna approached the land as nearly as was prudent, the boat was lowered, and in a few
minutes the count and Servadac had landed upon the islet, which was a mere plot of meadow land,
not much more than two acres in extent, dotted here and there with a few myrtle-bushes and
lentisks, interspersed with some ancient olives. Having ascertained, as they imagined, that
the spot was devoid of living creature, they were on the point of returning to their boat,
when their attention was arrested by a faint bleating, and immediately afterwards a solitary
she-goat came bounding towards the shore. The creature had dark, almost black hair, and small
curved horns, and was a specimen of that domestic breed which, with considerable justice, has
gained for itself the title of "the poor man's cow." So far from being alarmed at the presence
of strangers, the goat ran nimbly towards them, and then, by its movements and plaintive cries,
seemed to be enticing them to follow it.

"Come," said Servadac; "let us see where it will lead us; it is more than probable it is not
alone."

The count agreed; and the animal, as if comprehending what was said, trotted on gently for
about a hundred paces, and stopped in front of a kind of cave or burrow that was half concealed
by a grove of lentisks. Here a little girl, seven or eight years of age, with rich brown hair
and lustrous dark eyes, beautiful as one of Murillo's angels, was peeping shyly through the
branches. Apparently discovering nothing in the aspect of the strangers to excite her apprehensions,
the child suddenly gained confidence, darted forwards with outstretched hands, and in a voice,
soft and melodious as the language which she spoke, said in Italian:

"I like you; you will not hurt me, will you?"

"Hurt you, my child?" answered Servadac. "No, indeed; we will be your friends; we will take
care of you."

And after a few moments' scrutiny of the pretty maiden, he added:

"Tell us your name, little one."

"Nina!" was the child's reply.

"Well, then, Nina, can you tell us where we are?"

"At Madalena, I think," said the little girl; "at least, I know I was there when that dreadful
shock came and altered everything."

The count knew that Madalena was close to Caprera, to the north of Sardinia, which had entirely
disappeared in the disaster. By dint of a series of questions, he gained from the child a very
intelligent account of her experiences. She told him that she had no parents, and had been
employed in taking care of a flock of goats belonging to one of the landowners, when one day,
all of a sudden, everything around her, except this little piece of land, had been swallowed
up, and that she and Marzy, her pet goat, had been left quite alone. She went on to say that
at first she had been very frightened; but when she found that the earth did not shake any
more, she had thanked the great God, and had soon made herself very happy living with Marzy.
She had enough food, she said, and had been waiting for a boat to fetch her, and now a boat
had come and she was quite ready to go away; only they must let her goat go with her: they
would both like so much to get back to the old farm.

"Here, at least, is one nice little inhabitant of Gallia," said Captain Servadac, as he caressed
the child and conducted her to the boat.

Half an hour later, both Nina and Marzy were safely quartered on board the yacht. It is needless
to say that they received the heartiest of welcomes. The Russian sailors, ever superstitious,
seemed almost to regard the coming of the child as the appearance of an angel; and, incredible
as it may seem, more than one of them wondered whether she had wings, and amongst themselves
they commonly referred to her as "the little Madonna."

Soon out of sight of Madalena, the Dobryna for some hours held a southeasterly course along
the shore, which here was fifty leagues in advance of the former coast-line of Italy, demonstrating
that a new continent must have been formed, substituted as it were for the old peninsula, of
which not a vestige could be identified. At a latitude corresponding with the latitude of Rome,
the sea took the form of a deep gulf, extending back far beyond the site of the Eternal City;
the coast making a wide sweep round to the former position of Calabria, and jutting far beyond
the outline of "the boot," which Italy resembles. But the beacon of Messina was not to be discerned;
no trace, indeed, survived of any portion of Sicily; the very peak of Etna, 11,000 feet as
it had reared itself above the level of the sea, had vanished utterly.

Another sixty leagues to the south, and the Dobryna sighted the entrance of the strait which
had afforded her so providential a refuge from the tempest, and had conducted her to the fragmentary
relic of Gibraltar. Hence to the Gulf of Cabes had been already explored, and as it was universally
allowed that it was unnecessary to renew the search in that direction, the lieutenant started
off in a transverse course, towards a point hitherto uninvestigated. That point was reached
on the 3rd of March, and thence the coast was continuously followed, as it led through what
had been Tunis, across the province of Constantine, away to the oasis of Ziban; where, taking
a sharp turn, it first reached a latitude of 32 degrees, and then returned again, thus forming
a sort of irregular gulf, enclosed by the same unvarying border of mineral concrete. This colossal
boundary then stretched away for nearly 150 leagues over the Sahara desert, and, extending
to the south of Gourbi Island, occupied what, if Morocco had still existed, would have been
its natural frontier.

Adapting her course to these deviations of the coastline, the Dobryna was steering northwards,
and had barely reached the limit of the bay, when the attention of all on board was arrested
by the phenomenon of a volcano, at least 3,000 feet high, its crater crowned with smoke, which
occasionally was streaked by tongues of flame.

"A burning mountain!" they exclaimed.

"Gallia, then, has some internal heat," said Servadac.

"And why not, captain?" rejoined the lieutenant. "If our asteroid has carried with it a portion
of the old earth's atmosphere, why should it not likewise retain something of its central fire?"

"Ah, well!" said the captain, shrugging his shoulders, "I dare say there is caloric enough
in our little world to supply the wants of its population."

Count Timascheff interrupted the silence that followed this conversation by saying, "And now,
gentlemen, as our course has brought us on our way once more towards Gibraltar, what do you
say to our renewing our acquaintance with the Englishmen? They will be interested in the result
of our voyage."

"For my part," said Servadac, "I have no desire that way. They know where to find Gourbi Island;
they can betake themselves thither just when they please. They have plenty of provisions. If
the water freezes, 120 leagues is no very great distance. The reception they gave us was not
so cordial that we need put ourselves out of the way to repeat our visit."

"What you say is too true," replied the count. "I hope we shall show them better manners when
they condescend to visit us."

"Ay," said Servadac, "we must remember that we are all one people now; no longer Russian, French,
or English. Nationality is extinct."

"I am sadly afraid, however," continued the count, "that an Englishman will be an Englishman ever."

"Yes," said the captain, "that is always their failing."

And thus all further thought of making their way again to the little garrison of Gibraltar
was abandoned.

But even if their spirit of courtesy had disposed them to renew their acquaintance with the
British officers, there were two circumstances that just then would have rendered such a proposal
very unadvisable. In the first place, Lieutenant Procope was convinced that it could not be
much longer now before the sea would be entirely frozen; and, besides this, the consumption
of their coal, through the speed they had maintained, had been so great that there was only
too much reason to fear that fuel would fail them. Anyhow, the strictest economy was necessary,
and it was accordingly resolved that the voyage should not be much prolonged. Beyond the volcanic
peak, moreover, the waters seemed to expand into a boundless ocean, and it might be a thing
full of risk to be frozen up while the yacht was so inadequately provisioned. Taking all these
things into account, it was agreed that further investigations should be deferred to a more
favorable season, and that, without delay, the Dobryna should return to Gourbi Island.

This decision was especially welcome to Hector Servadac, who, throughout the whole of the last
five weeks, had been agitated by much anxious thought on account of the faithful servant he
had left behind.

The transit from the volcano to the island was not long, and was marked by only one noticeable
incident. This was the finding of a second mysterious document, in character precisely similar
to what they had found before. The writer of it was evidently engaged upon a calculation, probably
continued from day to day, as to the motions of the planet Gallia upon its orbit, and committing
the results of his reckonings to the waves as the channel of communication.

Instead of being enclosed in a telescope-case, it was this time secured in a preserved-meat
tin, hermetically sealed, and stamped with the same initials on the wax that fastened it. The
greatest care was used in opening it, and it was found to contain the following message:

"Gallia Ab sole, au 1 mars, dist. 78,000,000 l.! Chemin parcouru de fev. a mars: 59,000,000
1.! Va bene! All right! Nil desperandum!

"Enchante!"

"Another enigma!" exclaimed Servadac; "and still no intelligible signature, and no address.
No clearing up of the mystery!"

"I have no doubt, in my own mind," said the count, "that it is one of a series. It seems to
me probable that they are being sent broadcast upon the sea."

"I wonder where the hare-brained savant that writes them can be living?" observed Servadac.

"Very likely he may have met with the fate of AEsop's abstracted astronomer, who found himself
at the bottom of a well."

"Ay; but where is that well?" demanded the captain.

This was a question which the count was incapable of settling; and they could only speculate
afresh as to whether the author of the riddles was dwelling upon some solitary island, or,
like themselves, was navigating the waters of the new Mediterranean. But they could detect
nothing to guide them to a definite decision.

After thoughtfully regarding the document for some time. Lieutenant Procope proceeded to observe
that he believed the paper might be considered as genuine, and accordingly, taking its statements
as reliable, he deduced two important conclusions: first, that whereas, in the month of January,
the distance traveled by the planet (hypothetically called Gallia) had been recorded as 82,000,000
leagues, the distance traveled in February was only 59,000,000 leagues--a difference of 23,000,000
leagues in one month; secondly, that the distance of the planet from the sun, which on the
15th of February had been 59,000,000 leagues, was on the 1st of March 78,000,000 leagues--an
increase of 19,000,000 leagues in a fortnight. Thus, in proportion as Gallia receded from the
sun, so did the rate of speed diminish by which she traveled along her orbit; facts to be observed
in perfect conformity with the known laws of celestial mechanism.

"And your inference?" asked the count.

"My inference," replied the lieutenant, "is a confirmation of my surmise that we are following
an orbit decidedly elliptical, although we have not yet the material to determine its eccentricity."

"As the writer adheres to the appellation of Gallia, do you not think," asked the count, "that
we might call these new waters the Gallian Sea?"

"There can be no reason to the contrary, count," replied the lieutenant; "and as such I will
insert it upon my new chart."

"Our friend," said Servadac, "seems to be more and more gratified with the condition of things;
not only has he adopted our motto, 'Nil desperandum!' but see how enthusiastically he has wound
up with his 'Enchante!'"

The conversation dropped.

A few hours later the man on watch announced that Gourbi Island was in sight.

CHAPTER XVIII. AN UNEXPECTED POPULATION

The Dobryna was now back again at the island. Her cruise had lasted from the 31st of January
to the 5th of March, a period of thirty-five days (for it was leap year), corresponding to
seventy days as accomplished by the new little world.

Many a time during his absence Hector Servadac had wondered how his present vicissitudes would
end, and he had felt some misgivings as to whether he should ever again set foot upon the island,
and see his faithful orderly, so that it was not without emotion that he had approached the
coast of the sole remaining fragment of Algerian soil. But his apprehensions were groundless;
Gourbi Island was just as he had left it, with nothing unusual in its aspect, except that a
very peculiar cloud was hovering over it, at an altitude of little more than a hundred feet.
As the yacht approached the shore, this cloud appeared to rise and fall as if acted upon by
some invisible agency, and the captain, after watching it carefully, perceived that it was
not an accumulation of vapors at all, but a dense mass of birds packed as closely together
as a swarm of herrings, and uttering deafening and discordant cries, amidst which from time
to time the noise of the report of a gun could be plainly distinguished.

The Dobryna signalized her arrival by firing her cannon, and dropped anchor in the little port
of the Shelif. Almost within a minute Ben Zoof was seen running, gun in hand, towards the shore;
he cleared the last ridge of rocks at a single bound, and then suddenly halted. For a few seconds
he stood motionless, his eyes fixed, as if obeying the instructions of a drill sergeant, on
a point some fifteen yards distant, his whole attitude indicating submission and respect; but
the sight of the captain, who was landing, was too much for his equanimity, and darting forward,
he seized his master's hand and covered it with kisses. Instead, however, of uttering any expressions
of welcome or rejoicing at the captain's return, Ben Zoof broke out into the most vehement
ejaculations.

"Thieves, captain! beastly thieves! Bedouins! pirates! devils!"

"Why, Ben Zoof, what's the matter?" said Servadac soothingly.

"They are thieves! downright, desperate thieves! those infernal birds! That's what's the matter.
It is a good thing you have come. Here have I for a whole month been spending my powder and
shot upon them, and the more I kill them, the worse they get; and yet, if I were to leave them
alone, we should not have a grain of corn upon the island."

It was soon evident that the orderly had only too much cause for alarm. The crops had ripened
rapidly during the excessive heat of January, when the orbit of Gallia was being traversed
at its perihelion, and were now exposed to the depredations of many thousands of birds; and
although a goodly number of stacks attested the industry of Ben Zoof during the time of the
Dobryna's voyage, it was only too apparent that the portion of the harvest that remained ungathered
was liable to the most imminent risk of being utterly devoured. It was, perhaps, only natural
that this clustered mass of birds, as representing the whole of the feathered tribe upon the
surface of Gallia, should resort to Gourbi Island, of which the meadows seemed to be the only
spot from which they could get sustenance at all; but as this sustenance would be obtained
at the expense, and probably to the serious detriment, of the human population, it was absolutely
necessary that every possible resistance should be made to the devastation that was threatened.

Once satisfied that Servadac and his friends would cooperate with him in the raid upon "the
thieves," Ben Zoof became calm and content, and began to make various inquiries. "And what
has become," he said, "of all our old comrades in Africa?"

"As far as I can tell you," answered the captain, "they are all in Africa still; only Africa
isn't by any means where we expected to find it."

"And France? Montmartre?" continued Ben Zoof eagerly. Here was the cry of the poor fellow's heart.

As briefly as he could, Servadac endeavored to explain the true condition of things; he tried
to communicate the fact that Paris, France, Europe, nay, the whole world was more than eighty
millions of leagues away from Gourbi Island; as gently and cautiously as he could he expressed
his fear that they might never see Europe, France, Paris, Montmartre again.

"No, no, sir!" protested Ben Zoof emphatically; "that is all nonsense. It is altogether out
of the question to suppose that we are not to see Montmartre again." And the orderly shook
his head resolutely, with the air of a man determined, in spite of argument, to adhere to his
own opinion.

"Very good, my brave fellow," replied Servadac, "hope on, hope while you may. The message has
come to us over the sea, 'Never despair'; but one thing, nevertheless, is certain; we must
forthwith commence arrangements for making this island our permanent home."

Captain Servadac now led the way to the gourbi, which, by his servant's exertions, had been
entirely rebuilt; and here he did the honors of his modest establishment to his two guests,
the count and the lieutenant, and gave a welcome, too, to little Nina, who had accompanied
them on shore, and between whom and Ben Zoof the most friendly relations had already been established.

The adjacent building continued in good preservation, and Captain Servadac's satisfaction was
very great in finding the two horses, Zephyr and Galette, comfortably housed there and in good
condition.

After the enjoyment of some refreshment, the party proceeded to a general consultation as to
what steps must be taken for their future welfare. The most pressing matter that came before
them was the consideration of the means to be adopted to enable the inhabitants of Gallia to
survive the terrible cold, which, in their ignorance of the true eccentricity of their orbit,
might, for aught they knew, last for an almost indefinite period. Fuel was far from abundant;
of coal there was none; trees and shrubs were few in number, and to cut them down in prospect
of the cold seemed a very questionable policy; but there was no doubt some expedient must be
devised to prevent disaster, and that without delay.

The victualing of the little colony offered no immediate difficulty. Water was abundant, and
the cisterns could hardly fail to be replenished by the numerous streams that meandered along
the plains; moreover, the Gallian Sea would ere long be frozen over, and the melted ice (water
in its congealed state being divested of every particle of salt) would afford a supply of drink
that could not be exhausted. The crops that were now ready for the harvest, and the flocks
and herds scattered over the island, would form an ample reserve. There was little doubt that
throughout the winter the soil would remain unproductive, and no fresh fodder for domestic
animals could then be obtained; it would therefore be necessary, if the exact duration of Gallia's
year should ever be calculated, to proportion the number of animals to be reserved to the real
length of the winter.

The next thing requisite was to arrive at a true estimate of the number of the population.
Without including the thirteen Englishmen at Gibraltar, about whom he was not particularly
disposed to give himself much concern at present, Servadac put down the names of the eight
Russians, the two Frenchman, and the little Italian girl, eleven in all, as the entire list
of the inhabitants of Gourbi Island.

"Oh, pardon me," interposed Ben Zoof, "you are mistaking the state of the case altogether.
You will be surprised to learn that the total of people on the island is double that. It is
twenty-two."

"Twenty-two!" exclaimed the captain; "twenty-two people on this island? What do you mean?"

"The opportunity has not occurred," answered Ben Zoof, "for me to tell you before, but I have
had company."

"Explain yourself, Ben Zoof," said Servadac. "What company have you had?"

"You could not suppose," replied the orderly, "that my own unassisted hands could have accomplished
all that harvest work that you see has been done."

"I confess," said Lieutenant Procope, "we do not seem to have noticed that."

"Well, then," said Ben Zoof, "if you will be good enough to come with me for about a mile,
I shall be able to show you my companions. But we must take our guns."

"Why take our guns?" asked Servadac. "I hope we are not going to fight."

"No, not with men," said Ben Zoof; "but it does not answer to throw a chance away for giving
battle to those thieves of birds."

Leaving little Nina and her goat in the gourbi, Servadac, Count Timascheff, and the lieutenant,
greatly mystified, took up their guns and followed the orderly. All along their way they made
unsparing slaughter of the birds that hovered over and around them. Nearly every species of
the feathered tribe seemed to have its representative in that living cloud. There were wild
ducks in thousands; snipe, larks, rooks, and swallows; a countless variety of sea-birds--widgeons,
gulls, and seamews; beside a quantity of game--quails, partridges, and woodcocks. The sportsmen
did their best; every shot told; and the depredators fell by dozens on either hand.

Instead of following the northern shore of the island, Ben Zoof cut obliquely across the plain.
Making their progress with the unwonted rapidity which was attributable to their specific lightness,
Servadac and his companions soon found themselves near a grove of sycamores and eucalyptus
massed in picturesque confusion at the base of a little hill. Here they halted.

"Ah! the vagabonds! the rascals! the thieves!" suddenly exclaimed Ben Zoof, stamping his foot
with rage.

"How now? Are your friends the birds at their pranks again?" asked the captain.

"No, I don't mean the birds: I mean those lazy beggars that are shirking their work. Look here;
look there!" And as Ben Zoof spoke, he pointed to some scythes, and sickles, and other implements
of husbandry that had been left upon the ground.

"What is it you mean?" asked Servadac, getting somewhat impatient.

"Hush, hush! listen!" was all Ben Zoof's reply; and he raised his finger as if in warning.

Listening attentively, Servadac and his associates could distinctly recognize a human voice,
accompanied by the notes of a guitar and by the measured click of castanets.

"Spaniards!" said Servadac.

"No mistake about that, sir," replied Ben Zoof; "a Spaniard would rattle his castanets at the
cannon's mouth."

"But what is the meaning of it all?" asked the captain, more puzzled than before.

"Hark!" said Ben Zoof; "it is the old man's turn."

And then a voice, at once gruff and harsh, was heard vociferating, "My money! my money! when
will you pay me my money? Pay me what you owe me, you miserable majos."

Meanwhile the song continued:

               "Tu sandunga y cigarro,
               Y una cana de Jerez,
               Mi jamelgo y un trabuco,
               Que mas gloria puede haver?"

Servadac's knowledge of Gascon enabled him partially to comprehend the rollicking tenor of
the Spanish patriotic air, but his attention was again arrested by the voice of the old man
growling savagely, "Pay me you shall; yes, by the God of Abraham, you shall pay me."

"A Jew!" exclaimed Servadac.

"Ay, sir, a German Jew," said Ben Zoof.

The party was on the point of entering the thicket, when a singular spectacle made them pause.
A group of Spaniards had just begun dancing their national fandango, and the extraordinary
lightness which had become the physical property of every object in the new planet made the
dancers bound to a height of thirty feet or more into the air, considerably above the tops
of the trees. What followed was irresistibly comic. Four sturdy majos had dragged along with
them an old man incapable of resistance, and compelled him, nolens volens, to join in the dance;
and as they all kept appearing and disappearing above the bank of foliage, their grotesque
attitudes, combined with the pitiable countenance of their helpless victim, could not do otherwise
than recall most forcibly the story of Sancho Panza tossed in a blanket by the merry drapers
of Segovia.

Servadac, the count, Procope, and Ben Zoof now proceeded to make their way through the thicket
until they came to a little glade, where two men were stretched idly on the grass, one of them
playing the guitar, and the other a pair of castanets; both were exploding with laughter, as
they urged the performers to greater and yet greater exertions in the dance. At the sight of
strangers they paused in their music, and simultaneously the dancers, with their victim, alighted
gently on the sward.

Breathless and half exhausted as was the Jew, he rushed with an effort towards Servadac, and
exclaimed in French, marked by a strong Teutonic accent, "Oh, my lord governor, help me, help!
These rascals defraud me of my rights; they rob me; but, in the name of the God of Israel,
I ask you to see justice done!"

The captain glanced inquiringly towards Ben Zoof, and the orderly, by a significant nod, made
his master understand that he was to play the part that was implied by the title. He took the
cue, and promptly ordered the Jew to hold his tongue at once. The man bowed his head in servile
submission, and folded his hands upon his breast.

Servadac surveyed him leisurely. He was a man of about fifty, but from his appearance might
well have been taken for at least ten years older. Small and skinny, with eyes bright and cunning,
a hooked nose, a short yellow beard, unkempt hair, huge feet, and long bony hands, he presented
all the typical characteristics of the German Jew, the heartless, wily usurer, the hardened
miser and skinflint. As iron is attracted by the magnet, so was this Shylock attracted by the
sight of gold, nor would he have hesitated to draw the life-blood of his creditors, if by such
means he could secure his claims.

His name was Isaac Hakkabut, and he was a native of Cologne. Nearly the whole of his time,
however, he informed Captain Servadac, had been spent upon the sea, his real business being
that of a merchant trading at all the ports of the Mediterranean. A tartan, a small vessel
of two hundred tons burden, conveyed his entire stock of merchandise, and, to say the truth,
was a sort of floating emporium, conveying nearly every possible article of commerce, from
a lucifer match to the radiant fabrics of Frankfort and Epinal. Without wife or children, and
having no settled home, Isaac Hakkabut lived almost entirely on board the Hansa, as he had
named his tartan; and engaging a mate, with a crew of three men, as being adequate to work
so light a craft, he cruised along the coasts of Algeria, Tunis, Egypt, Turkey, and Greece,
visiting, moreover, most of the harbors of the Levant. Careful to be always well supplied with
the products in most general demand--coffee, sugar, rice, tobacco, cotton stuffs, and gunpowder--and
being at all times ready to barter, and prepared to deal in secondhand wares, he had contrived
to amass considerable wealth.

On the eventful night of the 1st of January the Hansa had been at Ceuta, the point on the coast
of Morocco exactly opposite Gibraltar. The mate and three sailors had all gone on shore, and,
in common with many of their fellow-creatures, had entirely disappeared; but the most projecting
rock of Ceuta had been undisturbed by the general catastrophe, and half a score of Spaniards,
who had happened to be upon it, had escaped with their lives. They were all Andalusian majos,
agricultural laborers, and naturally as careless and apathetic as men of their class usually
are, but they could not help being very considerably embarrassed when they discovered that
they were left in solitude upon a detached and isolated rock. They took what mutual counsel
they could, but became only more and more perplexed. One of them was named Negrete, and he,
as having traveled somewhat more than the rest, was tacitly recognized as a sort of leader;
but although he was by far the most enlightened of them all, he was quite incapable of forming
the least conception of the nature of what had occurred. The one thing upon which they could
not fail to be conscious was that they had no prospect of obtaining provisions, and consequently
their first business was to devise a scheme for getting away from their present abode. The
Hansa was lying off shore. The Spaniards would not have had the slightest hesitation in summarily
taking possession of her, but their utter ignorance of seamanship made them reluctantly come
to the conclusion that the more prudent policy was to make terms with the owner.

And now came a singular part of the story. Negrete and his companions had meanwhile received
a visit from two English officers from Gibraltar. What passed between them the Jew did not
know; he only knew that, immediately after the conclusion of the interview, Negrete came to
him and ordered him to set sail at once for the nearest point of Morocco. The Jew, afraid to
disobey, but with his eye ever upon the main chance, stipulated that at the end of their voyage
the Spaniards should pay for their passage--terms to which, as they would to any other, they
did not demur, knowing that they had not the slightest intention of giving him a single real.

The Hansa had weighed anchor on the 3rd of February. The wind blew from the west, and consequently
the working of the tartan was easy enough. The unpracticed sailors had only to hoist their
sails and, though they were quite unconscious of the fact, the breeze carried them to the only
spot upon the little world they occupied which could afford them a refuge.

Thus it fell out that one morning Ben Zoof, from his lookout on Gourbi Island, saw a ship,
not the Dobryna, appear upon the horizon, and make quietly down towards what had formerly been
the right bank of the Shelif.

Such was Ben Zoof's version of what had occurred, as he had gathered it from the new-comers.
He wound up his recital by remarking that the cargo of the Hansa would be of immense service
to them; he expected, indeed, that Isaac Hakkabut would be difficult to manage, but considered
there could be no harm in appropriating the goods for the common welfare, since there could
be no opportunity now for selling them.

Ben Zoof added, "And as to the difficulties between the Jew and his passengers, I told him
that the governor general was absent on a tour of inspection, and that he would see everything
equitably settled."

Smiling at his orderly's tactics, Servadac turned to Hakkabut, and told him that he would take
care that his claims should be duly investigated and all proper demands should be paid. The
man appeared satisfied, and, for the time at least, desisted from his complaints and importunities.

When the Jew had retired, Count Timascheff asked, "But how in the world can you ever make those
fellows pay anything?"

"They have lots of money," said Ben Zoof.

"Not likely," replied the count; "when did you ever know Spaniards like them to have lots of
money?"

"But I have seen it myself," said Ben Zoof; "and it is English money."

"English money!" echoed Servadac; and his mind again reverted to the excursion made by the
colonel and the major from Gibraltar, about which they had been so reticent. "We must inquire
more about this," he said.

Then, addressing Count Timascheff, he added, "Altogether, I think the countries of Europe are
fairly represented by the population of Gallia."

"True, captain," answered the count; "we have only a fragment of a world, but it contains natives
of France, Russia, Italy, Spain, and England. Even Germany may be said to have a representative
in the person of this miserable Jew."

"And even in him," said Servadac, "perhaps we shall not find so indifferent a representative
as we at present imagine."

CHAPTER XIX. GALLIA'S GOVERNOR GENERAL

The Spaniards who had arrived on board the Hansa consisted of nine men and a lad of twelve
years of age, named Pablo. They all received Captain Servadac, whom Ben Zoof introduced as
the governor general, with due respect, and returned quickly to their separate tasks. The captain
and his friends, followed at some distance by the eager Jew, soon left the glade and directed
their steps towards the coast where the Hansa was moored.

As they went they discussed their situation. As far as they had ascertained, except Gourbi
Island, the sole surviving fragments of the Old World were four small islands: the bit of Gibraltar
occupied by the Englishmen; Ceuta, which had just been left by the Spaniards; Madalena, where
they had picked up the little Italian girl; and the site of the tomb of Saint Louis on the
coast of Tunis. Around these there was stretched out the full extent of the Gallian Sea, which
apparently comprised about one-half of the Mediterranean, the whole being encompassed by a
barrier like a framework of precipitous cliffs, of an origin and a substance alike unknown.

Of all these spots only two were known to be inhabited: Gibraltar, where the thirteen Englishmen
were amply provisioned for some years to come, and their own Gourbi Island. Here there was
a population of twenty-two, who would all have to subsist upon the natural products of the
soil. It was indeed not to be forgotten that, perchance, upon some remote and undiscovered
isle there might be the solitary writer of the mysterious papers which they had found, and
if so, that would raise the census of their new asteroid to an aggregate of thirty-six.

Even upon the supposition that at some future date the whole population should be compelled
to unite and find a residence upon Gourbi Island, there did not appear any reason to question
but that eight hundred acres of rich soil, under good management, would yield them all an ample
sustenance. The only critical matter was how long the cold season would last; every hope depended
upon the land again becoming productive; at present, it seemed impossible to determine, even
if Gallia's orbit were really elliptic, when she would reach her aphelion, and it was consequently
necessary that the Gallians for the time being should reckon on nothing beyond their actual
and present resources.

These resources were, first, the provisions of the Dobryna, consisting of preserved meat, sugar,
wine, brandy, and other stores sufficient for about two months; secondly, the valuable cargo
of the Hansa, which, sooner or later, the owner, whether he would or not, must be compelled
to surrender for the common benefit; and lastly, the produce of the island, animal and vegetable,
which with proper economy might be made to last for a considerable period.

In the course of the conversation, Count Timascheff took an opportunity of saying that, as
Captain Servadac had already been presented to the Spaniards as governor of the island, he
thought it advisable that he should really assume that position.

"Every body of men," he observed, "must have a head, and you, as a Frenchman, should, I think,
take the command of this fragment of a French colony. My men, I can answer for it, are quite
prepared to recognize you as their superior officer."

"Most unhesitatingly," replied Servadac, "I accept the post with all its responsibilities.
We understand each other so well that I feel sure we shall try and work together for the common
good; and even if it be our fate never again to behold our fellow creatures, I have no misgivings
but that we shall be able to cope with whatever difficulties may be before us."

As he spoke, he held out his hand. The count took it, at the same time making a slight bow.
It was the first time since their meeting that the two men had shaken hands; on the other hand,
not a single word about their former rivalry had ever escaped their lips; perhaps that was
all forgotten now.

The silence of a few moments was broken by Servadac saying, "Do you not think we ought to explain
our situation to the Spaniards?"

"No, no, your Excellency," burst in Ben Zoof, emphatically; "the fellows are chicken-hearted
enough already; only tell them what has happened, and in sheer despondency they will not do
another stroke of work."

"Besides," said Lieutenant Procope, who took very much the same view as the orderly, "they
are so miserably ignorant they would be sure to misunderstand you."

"Understand or misunderstand," replied Servadac, "I do not think it matters. They would not
care. They are all fatalists. Only give them a guitar and their castanets, and they will soon
forget all care and anxiety. For my own part, I must adhere to my belief that it will be advisable
to tell them everything. Have you any opinion to offer, count?"

"My own opinion, captain, coincides entirely with yours. I have followed the plan of explaining
all I could to my men on board the Dobryna, and no inconvenience has arisen."

"Well, then, so let it be," said the captain; adding, "It is not likely that these Spaniards
are so ignorant as not to have noticed the change in the length of the days; neither can they
be unaware of the physical changes that have transpired. They shall certainly be told that
we are being carried away into unknown regions of space, and that this island is nearly all
that remains of the Old World."

"Ha! ha!" laughed Ben Zoof, aloud; "it will be fine sport to watch the old Jew's face, when
he is made to comprehend that he is flying away millions and millions of leagues from all his
debtors."

Isaac Hakkabut was about fifty yards behind, and was consequently unable to overhear the conversation.
He went shambling along, half whimpering and not unfrequently invoking the God of Israel; but
every now and then a cunning light gleamed from his eyes, and his lips became compressed with
a grim significance.

None of the recent phenomena had escaped his notice, and more than once he had attempted to
entice Ben Zoof into conversation upon the subject; but the orderly made no secret of his antipathy
to him, and generally replied to his advances either by satire or by banter. He told him that
he had everything to gain under the new system of nights and days, for, instead of living the
Jew's ordinary life of a century, he would reach to the age of two centuries; and he congratulated
him upon the circumstance of things having become so light, because it would prevent him feeling
the burden of his years. At another time he would declare that, to an old usurer like him,
it could not matter in the least what had become of the moon, as he could not possibly have
advanced any money upon her. And when Isaac, undaunted by his jeers, persevered in besetting
him with questions, he tried to silence him by saying, "Only wait till the governor general
comes; he is a shrewd fellow, and will tell you all about it."

"But will he protect my property?" poor Isaac would ask tremulously.

"To be sure he will! He would confiscate it all rather than that you should be robbed of it."

With this Job's comfort the Jew had been obliged to content himself as best he could, and to
await the promised arrival of the governor.

When Servadac and his companions reached the shore, they found that the Hansa had anchored
in an exposed bay, protected but barely by a few projecting rocks, and in such a position that
a gale rising from the west would inevitably drive her on to the land, where she must be dashed
in pieces. It would be the height of folly to leave her in her present moorings; without loss
of time she must be brought round to the mouth of the Shelif, in immediate proximity to the
Russian yacht.

The consciousness that his tartan was the subject of discussion made the Jew give way to such
vehement ejaculations of anxiety, that Servadac turned round and peremptorily ordered him to
desist from his clamor. Leaving the old man under the surveillance of the count and Ben Zoof,
the captain and the lieutenant stepped into a small boat and were soon alongside the floating
emporium.

A very short inspection sufficed to make them aware that both the tartan and her cargo were
in a perfect state of preservation. In the hold were sugar-loaves by hundreds, chests of tea,
bags of coffee, hogsheads of tobacco, pipes of wine, casks of brandy, barrels of dried herrings,
bales of cotton, clothing of every kind, shoes of all sizes, caps of various shape, tools,
household utensils, china and earthenware, reams of paper, bottles of ink, boxes of lucifer
matches, blocks of salt, bags of pepper and spices, a stock of huge Dutch cheeses, and a collection
of almanacs and miscellaneous literature. At a rough guess the value could not be much under
pounds 5,000 sterling. A new cargo had been taken in only a few days before the catastrophe,
and it had been Isaac Hakkabut's intention to cruise from Ceuta to Tripoli, calling wherever
he had reason to believe there was likely to be a market for any of his commodities.

"A fine haul, lieutenant," said the captain.

"Yes, indeed," said the lieutenant; "but what if the owner refuses to part with it?"

"No fear; no fear," replied the captain. "As soon as ever the old rascal finds that there are
no more Arabs or Algerians for him to fleece, he will be ready enough to transact a little
business with us. We will pay him by bills of acceptance on some of his old friends in the
Old World."

"But why should he want any payment?" inquired the lieutenant. "Under the circumstances, he
must know that you have a right to make a requisition of his goods."

"No, no," quickly rejoined Servadac; "we will not do that. Just because the fellow is a German
we shall not be justified in treating him in German fashion. We will transact our business
in a business way. Only let him once realize that he is on a new globe, with no prospect of
getting back to the old one, and he will be ready enough to come to terms with us."

"Perhaps you are right," replied the lieutenant; "I hope you are. But anyhow, it will not do
to leave the tartan here; not only would she be in danger in the event of a storm, but it is
very questionable whether she could resist the pressure of the ice, if the water were to freeze."

"Quite true, Procope; and accordingly I give you the commission to see that your crew bring
her round to the Shelif as soon as may be."

"To-morrow morning it shall be done," answered the lieutenant, promptly.

Upon returning to the shore, it was arranged that the whole of the little colony should forthwith
assemble at the gourbi. The Spaniards were summoned and Isaac, although he could only with
reluctance take his wistful gaze from his tartan, obeyed the governor's orders to follow.

An hour later and the entire population of twenty-two had met in the chamber adjoining the
gourbi. Young Pablo made his first acquaintance with little Nina, and the child seemed highly
delighted to find a companion so nearly of her own age. Leaving the children to entertain each
other, Captain Servadac began his address.

Before entering upon further explanation, he said that he counted upon the cordial co-operation
of them all for the common welfare.

Negrete interrupted him by declaring that no promises or pledges could be given until he and
his countrymen knew how soon they could be sent back to Spain.

"To Spain, do you say?" asked Servadac.

"To Spain!" echoed Isaac Hakkabut, with a hideous yell. "Do they expect to go back to Spain
till they have paid their debts? Your Excellency, they owe me twenty reals apiece for their
passage here; they owe me two hundred reals. Are they to be allowed...?"

"Silence, Mordecai, you fool!" shouted Ben Zoof, who was accustomed to call the Jew by any
Hebrew name that came uppermost to his memory. "Silence!"

Servadac was disposed to appease the old man's anxiety by promising to see that justice was
ultimately done; but, in a fever of frantic excitement, he went on to implore that he might
have the loan of a few sailors to carry his ship to Algiers.

"I will pay you honestly; I will pay you well," he cried; but his ingrained propensity for
making a good bargain prompted him to add, "provided you do not overcharge me."

Ben Zoof was about again to interpose some angry exclamation; but Servadac checked him, and
continued in Spanish: "Listen to me, my friends. Something very strange has happened. A most
wonderful event has cut us off from Spain, from France, from Italy, from every country of Europe.
In fact, we have left the Old World entirely. Of the whole earth, nothing remains except this
island on which you are now taking refuge. The old globe is far, far away. Our present abode
is but an insignificant fragment that is left. I dare not tell you that there is any chance
of your ever again seeing your country or your homes."

He paused. The Spaniards evidently had no conception of his meaning.

Negrete begged him to tell them all again. He repeated all that he had said, and by introducing
some illustrations from familiar things, he succeeded to a certain extent in conveying some
faint idea of the convulsion that had happened. The event was precisely what he had foretold.
The communication was received by all alike with the most supreme indifference.

Hakkabut did not say a word. He had listened with manifest attention, his lips twitching now
and then as if suppressing a smile. Servadac turned to him, and asked whether he was still
disposed to put out to sea and make for Algiers.

The Jew gave a broad grin, which, however, he was careful to conceal from the Spaniards. "Your
Excellency jests," he said in French; and turning to Count Timascheff, he added in Russian:
"The governor has made up a wonderful tale."

The count turned his back in disgust, while the Jew sidled up to little Nina and muttered in
Italian. "A lot of lies, pretty one; a lot of lies!"

"Confound the knave!" exclaimed Ben Zoof; "he gabbles every tongue under the sun!"

"Yes," said Servadac; "but whether he speaks French, Russian, Spanish, German, or Italian,
he is neither more nor less than a Jew."

CHAPTER XX. A LIGHT ON THE HORIZON

On the following day, without giving himself any further concern about the Jew's incredulity,
the captain gave orders for the Hansa to be shifted round to the harbor of the Shelif. Hakkabut
raised no objection, not only because he was aware that the move insured the immediate safety
of his tartan, but because he was secretly entertaining the hope that he might entice away
two or three of the Dobryna's crew and make his escape to Algiers or some other port.

Operations now commenced for preparing proper winter quarters. Spaniards and Russians alike
joined heartily in the work, the diminution of atmospheric pressure and of the force of attraction
contributing such an increase to their muscular force as materially facilitated all their labors.

The first business was to accommodate the building adjacent to the gourbi to the wants of the
little colony. Here for the present the Spaniards were lodged, the Russians retaining their
berths upon the yacht, while the Jew was permitted to pass his nights upon the Hansa. This
arrangement, however, could be only temporary. The time could not be far distant when ships'
sides and ordinary walls would fail to give an adequate protection from the severity of the
cold that must be expected; the stock of fuel was too limited to keep up a permanent supply
of heat in their present quarters, and consequently they must be driven to seek some other
refuge, the internal temperature of which would at least be bearable.

The plan that seemed to commend itself most to their consideration was, that they should dig
out for themselves some subterraneous pits similar to "silos," such as are used as receptacles
for grain. They presumed that when the surface of Gallia should be covered by a thick layer
of ice, which is a bad conductor of heat, a sufficient amount of warmth for animal vitality
might still be retained in excavations of this kind. After a long consultation they failed
to devise any better expedient, and were forced to resign themselves to this species of troglodyte
existence.

In one respect they congratulated themselves that they should be better off than many of the
whalers in the polar seas, for as it is impossible to get below the surface of a frozen ocean,
these adventurers have to seek refuge in huts of wood and snow erected on their ships, which
at best can give but slight protection from extreme cold; but here, with a solid subsoil, the
Gallians might hope to dig down a hundred feet or so and secure for themselves a shelter that
would enable them to brave the hardest severity of climate.

The order, then, was at once given. The work was commenced. A stock of shovels, mattocks, and
pick-axes was brought from the gourbi, and with Ben Zoof as overseer, both Spanish majos and
Russian sailors set to work with a will.

It was not long, however, before a discovery, more unexpected than agreeable, suddenly arrested
their labors. The spot chosen for the excavation was a little to the right of the gourbi, on
a slight elevation of the soil. For the first day everything went on prosperously enough; but
at a depth of eight feet below the surface, the navvies came in contact with a hard surface,
upon which all their tools failed to make the slightest impression. Servadac and the count
were at once apprised of the fact, and had little difficulty in recognizing the substance that
had revealed itself as the very same which composed the shores as well as the subsoil of the
Gallian sea. It evidently formed the universal substructure of the new asteroid. Means for
hollowing it failed them utterly. Harder and more resisting than granite, it could not be blasted
by ordinary powder; dynamite alone could suffice to rend it.

The disappointment was very great. Unless some means of protection were speedily devised, death
seemed to be staring them in the face. Were the figures in the mysterious documents correct?
If so, Gallia must now be a hundred millions of leagues from the sun, nearly three times the
distance of the earth at the remotest section of her orbit. The intensity of the solar light
and heat, too, was very seriously diminishing, although Gourbi Island (being on the equator
of an orb which had its axes always perpendicular to the plane in which it revolved) enjoyed
a position that gave it a permanent summer. But no advantage of this kind could compensate
for the remoteness of the sun. The temperature fell steadily; already, to the discomfiture
of the little Italian girl, nurtured in sunshine, ice was beginning to form in the crevices
of the rocks, and manifestly the time was impending when the sea itself would freeze.

Some shelter must be found before the temperature should fall to 60 degrees below zero. Otherwise
death was inevitable. Hitherto, for the last few days, the thermometer had been registering
an average of about 6 degrees below zero, and it had become matter of experience that the stove,
although replenished with all the wood that was available, was altogether inadequate to effect
any sensible mitigation of the severity of the cold. Nor could any amount of fuel be enough.
It was certain that ere long the very mercury and spirit in the thermometers would be congealed.
Some other resort must assuredly be soon found, or they must perish. That was clear.

The idea of betaking themselves to the Dobryna and Hansa could not for a moment be seriously
entertained; not only did the structure of the vessels make them utterly insufficient to give
substantial shelter, but they were totally unfitted to be trusted as to their stability when
exposed to the enormous pressure of the accumulated ice.

Neither Servadac, nor the count, nor Lieutenant Procope were men to be easily disheartened,
but it could not be concealed that they felt themselves in circumstances by which they were
equally harassed and perplexed. The sole expedient that their united counsel could suggest
was to obtain a refuge below ground, and that was denied them by the strange and impenetrable
substratum of the soil; yet hour by hour the sun's disc was lessening in its dimensions, and
although at midday some faint radiance and glow were to be distinguished, during the night
the painfulness of the cold was becoming almost intolerable.

Mounted upon Zephyr and Galette, the captain and the count scoured the island in search of
some available retreat. Scarcely a yard of ground was left unexplored, the horses clearing
every obstacle as if they were, like Pegasus, furnished with wings. But all in vain. Soundings
were made again and again, but invariably with the same result; the rock, hard as adamant,
never failed to reveal itself within a few feet of the surface of the ground.

The excavation of any silo being thus manifestly hopeless, there seemed nothing to be done
except to try and render the buildings alongside the gourbi impervious to frost. To contribute
to the supply of fuel, orders were given to collect every scrap of wood, dry or green, that
the island produced; and this involved the necessity of felling the numerous trees that were
scattered over the plain. But toil as they might at the accumulation of firewood, Captain Servadac
and his companions could not resist the conviction that the consumption of a very short period
would exhaust the total stock. And what would happen then?

Studious if possible to conceal his real misgivings, and anxious that the rest of the party
should be affected as little as might be by his own uneasiness, Servadac would wander alone
about the island, racking his brain for an idea that would point the way out of the serious
difficulty. But still all in vain.

One day he suddenly came upon Ben Zoof, and asked him whether he had no plan to propose. The
orderly shook his head, but after a few moments' pondering, said: "Ah! master, if only we were
at Montmartre, we would get shelter in the charming stone-quarries."

"Idiot!" replied the captain, angrily, "if we were at Montmartre, you don't suppose that we
should need to live in stone-quarries?"

But the means of preservation which human ingenuity had failed to secure were at hand from
the felicitous provision of Nature herself. It was on the 10th of March that the captain and
Lieutenant Procope started off once more to investigate the northwest corner of the island;
on their way their conversation naturally was engrossed by the subject of the dire necessities
which only too manifestly were awaiting them. A discussion more than usually animated arose
between them, for the two men were not altogether of the same mind as to the measures that
ought to be adopted in order to open the fairest chance of avoiding a fatal climax to their
exposure; the captain persisted that an entirely new abode must be sought, while the lieutenant
was equally bent upon devising a method of some sort by which their present quarters might
be rendered sufficiently warm. All at once, in the very heat of his argument, Procope paused;
he passed his hand across his eyes, as if to dispel a mist, and stood, with a fixed gaze centered
on a point towards the south. "What is that?" he said, with a kind of hesitation. "No, I am
not mistaken," he added; "it is a light on the horizon."

"A light!" exclaimed Servadac; "show me where."

"Look there!" answered the lieutenant, and he kept pointing steadily in its direction, until
Servadac also distinctly saw the bright speck in the distance.

It increased in clearness in the gathering shades of evening. "Can it be a ship?" asked the
captain.

"If so, it must be in flames; otherwise we should not be able to see it so far off," replied
Procope.

"It does not move," said Servadac; "and unless I am greatly deceived, I can hear a kind of
reverberation in the air."

For some seconds the two men stood straining eyes and ears in rapt attention. Suddenly an idea
struck Servadac's mind. "The volcano!" he cried; "may it not be the volcano that we saw, whilst
we were on board the Dobryna?"

The lieutenant agreed that it was very probable.

"Heaven be praised!" ejaculated the captain, and he went on in the tones of a keen excitement:
"Nature has provided us with our winter quarters; the stream of burning lava that is flowing
there is the gift of a bounteous Providence; it will provide us all the warmth we need. No
time to lose! To-morrow, my dear Procope, to-morrow we will explore it all; no doubt the life,
the heat we want is reserved for us in the heart and bowels of our own Gallia!"

Whilst the captain was indulging in his expressions of enthusiasm, Procope was endeavoring
to collect his thoughts. Distinctly he remembered the long promontory which had barred the
Dobryna's progress while coasting the southern confines of the sea, and which had obliged her
to ascend northwards as far as the former latitude of Oran; he remembered also that at the
extremity of the promontory there was a rocky headland crowned with smoke; and now he was convinced
that he was right in identifying the position, and in believing that the smoke had given place
to an eruption of flame.

When Servadac gave him a chance of speaking, he said, "The more I consider it, captain, the
more I am satisfied that your conjecture is correct. Beyond a doubt, what we see is the volcano,
and to-morrow we will not fail to visit it."

On returning to the gourbi, they communicated their discovery to Count Timascheff only, deeming
any further publication of it to be premature. The count at once placed his yacht at their
disposal, and expressed his intention of accompanying them.

"The yacht, I think," said Procope, "had better remain where she is; the weather is beautifully
calm, and the steam-launch will answer our purpose better; at any rate, it will convey us much
closer to shore than the schooner."

The count replied that the lieutenant was by all means to use his own discretion, and they
all retired for the night.

Like many other modern pleasure-yachts, the Dobryna, in addition to her four-oar, was fitted
with a fast-going little steam-launch, its screw being propelled, on the Oriolle system, by
means of a boiler, small but very effective. Early next morning, this handy little craft was
sufficiently freighted with coal (of which there was still about ten tons on board the Dobryna),
and manned by nobody except the captain, the count, and the lieutenant, left the harbor of
the Shelif, much to the bewilderment of Ben Zoof, who had not yet been admitted into the secret.
The orderly, however, consoled himself with the reflection that he had been temporarily invested
with the full powers of governor general, an office of which he was not a little proud.

The eighteen miles between the island and the headland were made in something less than three
hours. The volcanic eruption was manifestly very considerable, the entire summit of the promontory
being enveloped in flames. To produce so large a combustion either the oxygen of Gallia's atmosphere
had been brought into contact with the explosive gases contained beneath her soil, or perhaps,
still more probable, the volcano, like those in the moon, was fed by an internal supply of
oxygen of her own.

It took more than half an hour to settle on a suitable landing-place. At length, a small semi-circular
creek was discovered among the rocks, which appeared advantageous, because, if circumstances
should so require, it would form a safe anchorage for both the Dobryna and the Hansa.

The launch securely moored, the passengers landed on the side of the promontory opposite to
that on which a torrent of burning lava was descending to the sea. With much satisfaction they
experienced, as they approached the mountain, a sensible difference in the temperature, and
their spirits could not do otherwise than rise at the prospect of having their hopes confirmed,
that a deliverance from the threatened calamity had so opportunely been found. On they went,
up the steep acclivity, scrambling over its rugged projections, scaling the irregularities
of its gigantic strata, bounding from point to point with the agility of chamois, but never
alighting on anything except on the accumulation of the same hexagonal prisms with which they
had now become so familiar.

Their exertions were happily rewarded. Behind a huge pyramidal rock they found a hole in the
mountain-side, like the mouth of a great tunnel. Climbing up to this orifice, which was more
than sixty feet above the level of the sea, they ascertained that it opened into a long dark
gallery. They entered and groped their way cautiously along the sides. A continuous rumbling,
that increased as they advanced, made them aware that they must be approaching the central
funnel of the volcano; their only fear was lest some insuperable wall of rock should suddenly
bar their further progress.

Servadac was some distance ahead.

"Come on!" he cried cheerily, his voice ringing through the darkness, "come on! Our fire is
lighted! no stint of fuel! Nature provides that! Let us make haste and warm ourselves!"

Inspired by his confidence, the count and the lieutenant advanced bravely along the unseen
and winding path. The temperature was now at least fifteen degrees above zero, and the walls
of the gallery were beginning to feel quite warm to the touch, an indication, not to be overlooked,
that the substance of which the rock was composed was metallic in its nature, and capable of
conducting heat.

"Follow me!" shouted Servadac again; "we shall soon find a regular stove!"

Onwards they made their way, until at last a sharp turn brought them into a sudden flood of
light. The tunnel had opened into a vast cavern, and the gloom was exchanged for an illumination
that was perfectly dazzling. Although the temperature was high, it was not in any way intolerable.

One glance was sufficient to satisfy the explorers that the grateful light and heat of this
huge excavation were to be attributed to a torrent of lava that was rolling downwards to the
sea, completely subtending the aperture of the cave. Not inaptly might the scene be compared
to the celebrated Grotto of the Winds at the rear of the central fall of Niagara, only with
the exception that here, instead of a curtain of rushing water, it was a curtain of roaring
flame that hung before the cavern's mouth.

"Heaven be praised!" cried Servadac, with glad emotion; "here is all that we hoped for, and
more besides!"

CHAPTER XXI. WINTER QUARTERS

The habitation that had now revealed itself, well lighted and thoroughly warm, was indeed marvelous.
Not only would it afford ample accommodation for Hector Servadac and "his subjects," as Ben
Zoof delighted to call them, but it would provide shelter for the two horses, and for a considerable
number of domestic animals.

This enormous cavern was neither more or less than the common junction of nearly twenty tunnels
(similar to that which had been traversed by the explorers), forming ramifications in the solid
rock, and the pores, as it were, by which the internal heat exuded from the heart of the mountain.
Here, as long as the volcano retained its activity, every living creature on the new asteroid
might brave the most rigorous of climates; and as Count Timascheff justly remarked, since it
was the only burning mountain they had sighted, it was most probably the sole outlet for Gallia's
subterranean fires, and consequently the eruption might continue unchanged for ages to come.

But not a day, not an hour, was to be lost now. The steam-launch returned to Gourbi Island,
and preparations were forthwith taken in hand for conveying man and beast, corn and fodder,
across to the volcanic headland. Loud and hearty were the acclamations of the little colony,
especially of the Spaniards, and great was the relief of Nina, when Servadac announced to them
the discovery of their future domicile; and with requickened energies they labored hard at
packing, anxious to reach their genial winter quarters without delay.

For three successive days the Dobryna, laden to her very gunwale, made a transit to and fro.
Ben Zoof was left upon the island to superintend the stowage of the freight, whilst Servadac
found abundant occupation in overlooking its disposal within the recesses of the mountain.
First of all, the large store of corn and fodder, the produce of the recent harvest, was landed
and deposited in one of the vaults; then, on the 15th, about fifty head of live cattle--bullocks,
cows, sheep, and pigs--were conveyed to their rocky stalls. These were saved for the sake of
preserving the several breeds, the bulk of the island cattle being slaughtered, as the extreme
severity of the climate insured all meat remaining fresh for almost an indefinite period. The
winter which they were expecting would probably be of unprecedented length; it was quite likely
that it would exceed the six months' duration by which many arctic explorers have been tried;
but the population of Gallia had no anxiety in the matter of provisions--their stock was far
more than adequate; while as for drink, as long as they were satisfied with pure water, a frozen
sea would afford them an inexhaustible reservoir.

The need for haste in forwarding their preparations became more and more manifest; the sea
threatened to be un-navigable very soon, as ice was already forming which the noonday sun was
unable to melt. And if haste were necessary, so also were care, ingenuity, and forethought.
It was indispensable that the space at their command should be properly utilized, and yet that
the several portions of the store should all be readily accessible.

On further investigation an unexpected number of galleries was discovered, so that, in fact,
the interior of the mountain was like a vast bee-hive perforated with innumerable cells; and
in compliment to the little Italian it was unanimously voted by the colony that their new home
should be called "Nina's Hive."

The first care of Captain Servadac was to ascertain how he could make the best possible use
of the heat which nature had provided for them so opportunely and with so lavish a hand. By
opening fresh vents in the solid rock (which by the action of the heat was here capable of
fissure) the stream of burning lava was diverted into several new channels, where it could
be available for daily use; and thus Mochel, the Dobryna's cook, was furnished with an admirable
kitchen, provided with a permanent stove, where he was duly installed with all his culinary
apparatus.

"What a saving of expense it would be," exclaimed Ben Zoof, "if every household could be furnished
with its own private volcano!"

The large cavern at the general junction of the galleries was fitted up as a drawing-room,
and arranged with all the best furniture both of the gourbi and of the cabin of the Dobryna.
Hither was also brought the schooner's library, containing a good variety of French and Russian
books; lamps were suspended over the different tables; and the walls of the apartment were
tapestried with the sails and adorned with the flags belonging to the yacht. The curtain of
fire extending over the opening of the cavern provided it, as already stated, with light and heat.

The torrent of lava fell into a small rock-bound basin that had no apparent communication with
the sea, and was evidently the aperture of a deep abyss, of which the waters, heated by the
descent of the eruptive matter, would no doubt retain their liquid condition long after the
Gallian Sea had become a sheet of ice.

A small excavation to the left of the common hall was allotted for the special use of Servadac
and the count; another on the right was appropriated to the lieutenant and Ben Zoof; whilst
a third recess, immediately at the back, made a convenient little chamber for Nina. The Spaniards
and the Russian sailors took up their sleeping-quarters in the adjacent galleries, and found
the temperature quite comfortable.

Such were the internal arrangements of Nina's Hive, the refuge where the little colony were
full of hope that they would be able to brave the rigors of the stern winter-time that lay
before them--a winter-time during which Gallia might possibly be projected even to the orbit
of Jupiter, where the temperature would not exceed one twenty-fifth of the normal winter temperature
of the earth.

The only discontented spirit was Isaac Hakkabut. Throughout all the preparations which roused
even the Spaniards to activity, the Jew, still incredulous and deaf to every representation
of the true state of things, insisted upon remaining in the creek at Gourbi Island; nothing
could induce him to leave his tartan, where, like a miser, he would keep guard over his precious
cargo, ever grumbling and growling, but with his weather-eye open in the hope of catching sight
of some passing sail. It must be owned that the whole party were far from sorry to be relieved
of his presence; his uncomely figure and repulsive countenance was a perpetual bugbear. He
had given out in plain terms that he did not intend to part with any of his property, except
for current money, and Servadac, equally resolute, had strictly forbidden any purchases to
be made, hoping to wear out the rascal's obstinacy.

Hakkabut persistently refused to credit the real situation; he could not absolutely deny that
some portions of the terrestrial globe had undergone a certain degree of modification, but
nothing could bring him to believe that he was not, sooner or later, to résumé his old line
of business in the Mediterranean. With his wonted distrust of all with whom he came in contact,
he regarded every argument that was urged upon him only as evidence of a plot that had been
devised to deprive him of his goods. Repudiating, as he did utterly, the hypothesis that a
fragment had become detached from the earth, he scanned the horizon for hours together with
an old telescope, the case of which had been patched up till it looked like a rusty stove-pipe,
hoping to descry the passing trader with which he might effect some bartering upon advantageous
terms.

At first he professed to regard the proposed removal into winter-quarters as an attempt to
impose upon his credulity; but the frequent voyages made by the Dobryna to the south, and the
repeated consignments of corn and cattle, soon served to make him aware that Captain Servadac
and his companions were really contemplating a departure from Gourbi Island.

The movement set him thinking. What, he began to ask himself--what if all that was told him
was true? What if this sea was no longer the Mediterranean? What if he should never again behold
his German fatherland? What if his marts for business were gone for ever? A vague idea of ruin
began to take possession of his mind: he must yield to necessity; he must do the best he could.
As the result of his cogitations, he occasionally left his tartan and made a visit to the shore.
At length he endeavored to mingle with the busy group, who were hurrying on their preparations;
but his advances were only met by jeers and scorn, and, ridiculed by all the rest, he was fain
to turn his attention to Ben Zoof, to whom he offered a few pinches of tobacco.

"No, old Zebulon," said Ben Zoof, steadily refusing the gift, "it is against orders to take
anything from you. Keep your cargo to yourself; eat and drink it all if you can; we are not
to touch it."

Finding the subordinates incorruptible, Isaac determined to go to the fountain-head. He addressed
himself to Servadac, and begged him to tell him the whole truth, piteously adding that surely
it was unworthy of a French officer to deceive a poor old man like himself.

"Tell you the truth, man!" cried Servadac. "Confound it, I have told you the truth twenty times.
Once for all, I tell you now, you have left yourself barely time enough to make your escape
to yonder mountain."

"God and Mahomet have mercy on me!" muttered the Jew, whose creed frequently assumed a very
ambiguous character.

"I will tell you what," continued the captain--"you shall have a few men to work the Hansa
across, if you like."

"But I want to go to Algiers," whimpered Hakkabut.

"How often am I to tell you that Algiers is no longer in existence? Only say yes or no--are
you coming with us into winter-quarters?"

"God of Israel! what is to become of all my property?"

"But, mind you," continued the captain, not heeding the interruption, "if you do not choose
voluntarily to come with us, I shall have the Hansa, by my orders, removed to a place of safety.
I am not going to let your cursed obstinacy incur the risk of losing your cargo altogether."

"Merciful Heaven! I shall be ruined!" moaned Isaac, in despair.

"You are going the right way to ruin yourself, and it would serve you right to leave you to
your own devices. But be off! I have no more to say."

And, turning contemptuously on his heel, Servadac left the old man vociferating bitterly, and
with uplifted hands protesting vehemently against the rapacity of the Gentiles.

By the 20th all preliminary arrangements were complete, and everything ready for a final departure
from the island. The thermometer stood on an average at 8 degrees below zero, and the water
in the cistern was completely frozen. It was determined, therefore, for the colony to embark
on the following day, and take up their residence in Nina's Hive.

A final consultation was held about the Hansa. Lieutenant Procope pronounced his decided conviction
that it would be impossible for the tartan to resist the pressure of the ice in the harbor
of the Shelif, and that there would be far more safety in the proximity of the volcano. It
was agreed on all hands that the vessel must be shifted; and accordingly orders were given,
four Russian sailors were sent on board, and only a few minutes elapsed after the Dobryna had
weighed anchor, before the great lateen sail of the tartan was unfurled, and the "shop-ship,"
as Ben Zoof delighted to call it, was also on her way to the southward.

Long and loud were the lamentations of the Jew. He kept exclaiming that he had given no orders,
that he was being moved against his will, that he had asked for no assistance, and needed none;
but it required no very keen discrimination to observe that all along there was a lurking gleam
of satisfaction in his little gray eyes, and when, a few hours later, he found himself securely
anchored, and his property in a place of safety, he quite chuckled with glee.

"God of Israel!" he said in an undertone, "they have made no charge; the idiots have piloted
me here for nothing."

For nothing! His whole nature exulted in the consciousness that he was enjoying a service that
had been rendered gratuitously.

Destitute of human inhabitants, Gourbi Island was now left to the tenancy of such birds and
beasts as had escaped the recent promiscuous slaughter. Birds, indeed, that had migrated in
search of warmer shores, had returned, proving that this fragment of the French colony was
the only shred of land that could yield them any sustenance; but their life must necessarily
be short. It was utterly impossible that they could survive the cold that would soon ensue.

The colony took possession of their new abode with but few formalities. Everyone, however,
approved of all the internal arrangements of Nina's Hive, and were profuse in their expressions
of satisfaction at finding themselves located in such comfortable quarters. The only malcontent
was Hakkabut; he had no share in the general enthusiasm, refused even to enter or inspect any
of the galleries, and insisted on remaining on board his tartan.

"He is afraid," said Ben Zoof, "that he will have to pay for his lodgings. But wait a bit;
we shall see how he stands the cold out there; the frost, no doubt, will drive the old fox
out of his hole."

Towards evening the pots were set boiling, and a bountiful supper, to which all were invited,
was spread in the central hall. The stores of the Dobryna contained some excellent wine, some
of which was broached to do honor to the occasion. The health of the governor general was drunk,
as well as the toast "Success to his council," to which Ben Zoof was called upon to return
thanks. The entertainment passed off merrily. The Spaniards were in the best of spirits; one
of them played the guitar, another the castanets, and the rest joined in a ringing chorus.
Ben Zoof contributed the famous Zouave refrain, well known throughout the French army, but
rarely performed in finer style than by this virtuoso:

     "Misti goth dar dar tire lyre!
     Flic! floc! flac! lirette, lira!
               Far la rira,
               Tour tala rire,
               Tour la Ribaud,
                 Ricandeau,
     Sans repos, repit, repit, repos, ris pot, ripette!
        Si vous attrapez mon refrain,
              Fameux vous etes."

The concert was succeeded by a ball, unquestionably the first that had ever taken place in
Gallia. The Russian sailors exhibited some of their national dances, which gained considerable
applause, even although they followed upon the marvelous fandangos of the Spaniards. Ben Zoof,
in his turn, danced a pas seul (often performed in the Elysee Montmartre) with an elegance
and vigor that earned many compliments from Negrete.

It was nine o'clock before the festivities came to an end, and by that time the company, heated
by the high temperature of the hall, and by their own exertions, felt the want of a little
fresh air. Accordingly the greater portion of the party, escorted by Ben Zoof, made their way
into one of the adjacent galleries that led to the shore. Servadac, with the count and lieutenant,
did not follow immediately; but shortly afterwards they proceeded to join them, when on their
way they were startled by loud cries from those in advance.

Their first impression was that they were cries of distress, and they were greatly relieved
to find that they were shouts of delight, which the dryness and purity of the atmosphere caused
to re-echo like a volley of musketry.

Reaching the mouth of the gallery, they found the entire group pointing with eager interest
to the sky.

"Well, Ben Zoof," asked the captain, "what's the matter now?"

"Oh, your Excellency," ejaculated the orderly, "look there! look there! The moon! the moon's
come back!"

And, sure enough, what was apparently the moon was rising above the mists of evening.

CHAPTER XXII. A FROZEN OCEAN

The moon! She had disappeared for weeks; was she now returning? Had she been faithless to the
earth? and had she now approached to be a satellite of the new-born world?

"Impossible!" said Lieutenant Procope; "the earth is millions and millions of leagues away,
and it is not probable that the moon has ceased to revolve about her."

"Why not?" remonstrated Servadac. "It would not be more strange than the other phenomena which
we have lately witnessed. Why should not the moon have fallen within the limits of Gallia's
attraction, and become her satellite?"

"Upon that supposition," put in the count, "I should think that it would be altogether unlikely
that three months would elapse without our seeing her."

"Quite incredible!" continued Procope. "And there is another thing which totally disproves
the captain's hypothesis; the magnitude of Gallia is far too insignificant for her power of
attraction to carry off the moon."

"But," persisted Servadac, "why should not the same convulsion that tore us away from the earth
have torn away the moon as well? After wandering about as she would for a while in the solar
regions, I do not see why she should not have attached herself to us."

The lieutenant repeated his conviction that it was not likely.

"But why not?" again asked Servadac impetuously.

"Because, I tell you, the mass of Gallia is so inferior to that of the moon, that Gallia would
become the moon's satellite; the moon could not possibly become hers."

"Assuming, however," continued Servadac, "such to be the case--"

"I am afraid," said the lieutenant, interrupting him, "that I cannot assume anything of the
sort even for a moment."

Servadac smiled good-humoredly.

"I confess you seem to have the best of the argument, and if Gallia had become a satellite
of the moon, it would not have taken three months to catch sight of her. I suppose you are right."

