He quickened his pace as the light failed. Presently he saw a figure coming towards him, emerging
from the trees that skirted the main lawn. It was Fontenoy, and Fontenoy's supporter must needs
recollect himself as quickly as possible. He had not seen much of his leader during the day.
But he knew well that Fontenoy never forgot his role, and there were several points, newly
arisen within the last forty-eight hours, on which he might have expected before this to be
called to counsel.

But Fontenoy, when he came up with the wanderer, seemed to have no great mind for talk. He
had evidently been pacing and thinking by himself, and when he was fullest of thought he was
as a rule most silent and inarticulate.

"You are late; so am I," he said, as he turned back with Tressady.

George assented.

"I have been thinking out one or two points of tactics."

But instead of discussing them he sank into silence again. George let him alone, knowing his ways.

Presently he said, raising his powerful head with a jerk, "But tactics are not of such importance
as they were. I think the thing is done--done!" he repeated with emphasis.

George shrugged his shoulders.

"I don't know. We may be too sanguine. It is not possible that Maxwell should be easily beaten."

Fontenoy laughed--a strange, high laugh, like a jay's, that seemed to have no relation to his
massive frame, and died suddenly away.

"But we shall beat him," he said quietly; "and her, too. A well-meaning woman--but what a foolish
one!"

George made no reply.

"Though I am bound to say," Fontenoy went on quickly, "that in private matters no man could
be kinder and show a sounder judgment than Maxwell. And I believe Mrs. Allison feels the same
with regard to her."

His look first softened, then frowned; and as he turned his eyes towards the house, George
guessed what subject it was that he and Maxwell had discussed under the limes in the morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

He found Letty in very good spirits, owing, as far as he could judge, to the civilities and
attentions of Lord Cathedine. Moreover, she was more at ease in her surroundings, and less
daunted by Mrs. Allison.

"And of course, to-morrow," she said, as she put on her diamonds, "it will be nicer still.
We shall all know each other so much better."

In her good-humour she had forgotten her twinge of jealousy, and did not even inquire with
whom he had been wandering so long.

But Letty was disappointed of her last day at Castle Luton. For the party broke up suddenly,
and by ten o'clock on Monday morning all Mrs. Allison's guests but Lord Fontenoy and the Maxwells
had left Castle Luton.

It was on this wise.

After dinner on Sunday night Ancoats, who had been particularly silent and irritable at table,
suddenly proposed to show his guests the house. Accordingly, he led them through its famous
rooms and corridors, turned on the electric light to show the pictures, and acted cicerone
to the china and the books.

Then, suddenly it was noticed that he had somehow slipped away, and that Madeleine Penley,
too, was missing. The party straggled back to the drawing-room without their host.

Ancoats, however, reappeared alone in about half an hour. He was extremely pale, and those
who knew him well, and were perforce observing him at the moment, like Maxwell and Marcella,
drew the conclusion that he was in a state of violent though suppressed excitement. His mother,
however, strange to say, noticed nothing. But she was clearly exhausted and depressed, and
she gave an early signal for the ladies' withdrawal.

The great house sank into quietness. But about an hour after Marcella and Betty had parted
at Betty's door, Betty heard a quick knock, and opened it in haste.

