I hear that Mr. LEONARD BOYNE has received a "licence to ride" from the Jockey Club, and that
his ambition is to ride the winner of the "Grand National"--to which end he has started "schooling"
a well-known chaser over the private training-ground in Drury Lane, belonging to Sir AUGUSTUS
HARRIS--if he hopes to escape observation by training at night, I fear his design will be frustrated,
as, on the evening, I went to witness this "new departure" in training, I found most of the
London racing-touts present, with the inevitable field-glasses!

Next week sees us once more at our beloved Newmarket First October--(this is a Jockey-Club
joke, as the meeting always takes place in September! But what does a little paradox of this
kind matter to such an August body!)--and I shall append my selection for the most important
race of Wednesday, but I also wish to give a hint to the "Worldly Wise" not to miss the October
Handicap, or the match, for which Buccaneer will be favourite at the "fall of the flag!"--(The
flag may fall, but such a Buccaneer as this is will never "strike his flag" I feel sure!) Being
absolutely overloaded with prophecy, I must also have a word to say on the Rutland Plate, which
aristocratically-named race could only be won by the aristocratically-named Buckingham!--Yours
devotedly, LADY GAY.

GREAT-EASTERN RAILWAY HANDICAP SELECTION:--

  Though good his chance to win the prize,
    "Lord HENRY" soon detected,
  That greatest danger would arise,
    From Colonel NORTH's "Selected."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SWORD AND PEN.

A FABLE.

(TRANSLATED FROM THE RUSSO-FRENCH.)

Pen was a busy personage. He was flying from place to place, and had much importance. He was
pompous and mysterious, and puzzled many people. Pen was accompanied by a sheet of paper that
he called Treaty. Pen took Treaty everywhere. To Russia, to France, to Rome, and to Turkey.
No one knew exactly what Treaty was like. Pen said he was satisfied with Treaty, and as Pen
and Treaty were such constant companions, Pen's word on the subject was accepted as authentic.

But one fine day there was a breeze, and Treaty was blown away by the wind.

"Can I not assist?" asked Pen. "Things seem to have gone wrong."

"No, thanks," replied Sword, grimly; "when it comes to close quarters, we find ink not quite
so useful as gunpowder!"

       *       *       *       *       *

SUGGESTION FOR AN OUTSIDE ADVERTISEMENT TO BE DISPLAYED AT THE DOOR OF THE STRAND THEATER.--"Niobe
all tiers" (full).

       *       *       *       *       *

BRIEF INTERVIEW.

"And," asked our deferential Interviewer, "what did your Lordship reply to the deputation about
Uganda?"

Lord ROSEBERY at once answered, "I said little, but I--"

"Ment-more," interrupted the Private Secretary, sticking a label on his Lordship's travelling bag.

"Quite so," said Lord ROSEBERY, and off he went.

       *       *       *       *       *

BAD FOR WOULD-BE "ENGLISH WIVES"--It is reported that "Yankee Girls and American Belles were
the feature of the Miscellaneous Market." This should put our young men on their mettle--tin,
of course, for choice. No reasonable offer refused.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LAYS OF MODERN HOME.

NO. V.--MY BUTTONS!

  It wasn't that he blacked the plate
    And rouged the boots, and breathed, half-choking,
  Half-snorting, when he leaned to wait;
    Although these habits are provoking.

  It wasn't that he sang his fill,
    Although his mouth with food was giving;
  This latter, as a feat of skill,
    Might have procured the lad a living.

  It wasn't that he'd purchase hosts
    Of squibs and sweets to mess the pantry;
  That horrid boy, and broomstick-ghosts
    On timid JANE would oft, and ANN try.

  These petty peccadilloes might
    Have all improved with careful training.--
  It was his shameless appetite
    That gave us cause for most complaining.

  He swilled and stuffed as never mere
    Adult voracity can own to;
  He was a "growing boy," I fear;
    I wonder much what he has grown to!

  He wore away our forks and spoons
    With hard, incessant gormandizing;
  The Baker's, and, for some blue moons,
    The Milkman's bill were quite surprising.

  He cost us more in Butcher's meat
    And Grocer's tea, and things from Cutlers,
  He cost, I solemnly repeat,
    Far more than two or three big Butlers.

  And thus his fat increased until't
    Became a show that sight bewilders;
  We trembled for our mansion built,
    You see, by noted Jerry-builders.

  At length (you'll scarce the fact believe)
    One evening, as we sat at dinner,
  And strove our senses to deceive
    By just imagining him thinner;

  We heard a crack, a burst, a groan,
    We felt a broadside round us battered,
  We saw his buttons fiercely blown
    About our heads, and piecemeal scattered!

  The suit had split; the boy was bare
    Of clothes designed to last for ages;
  We gave him notice then and there--
    This volume, so to speak, of pages!

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG TO BE SUNG IN HAYMARKET ORCHESTRA DURING OVERTURE.--"Oh, why should we wait till to-morrow?
See Queen of Manoa to-night!"

       *       *       *       *       *

ON A GUERNSEY EXCURSION CAR.

    The car, drawn by four horses, and crowded with Excursionists
    on pleasure bent, is toiling up the steep streets of St. Peter
    Port, when it comes to a sudden halt.

Excursionists (impatiently). Now then, what's this? What are we stopping here for?

The Driver. Ladies and Gentlemen, you will thoroughly understand that it is customary for the
car to stop here, in order that the party may be photographed, thus providing an agreeable
souvenir of the trip, and a useful means of identification at Scotland Yard. (A Photographer
appears in the road with a camera, and the party prepare themselves for perpetuation in a pleased
flutter.) P'raps, Sir--(to a Mild Man on the box-seat)--you'd like to be taken 'andling the
ribbons? Most of our Gentlemen do.

    [The Mild Man accepts the reins, and endeavours to assume a
    knowing and horsey expression.

A Timid Lady (behind). I do hope no Gentleman will take the reins, unless he is thoroughly
accustomed to driving four-in-hand. Suppose they took it into their heads to run away suddenly!

Driver (solemnly). Don't you alarm yourself about that, Ma'am, in the very slightest degree.
These 'osses take that pride in themselves, they'd stop here all day rather than spoil their
own likenesses!

    [The M.M. intimates that he is no novice in the art of
    driving, which is fairly true as regards a pony-trap--and the
    fears of the T.L. are allayed.

Photographer. Now, steady all, please, those at the further ends of the seats stand up so as
to come into the picture, a little more to the right, please, the gentleman in the straw 'at,
turn your 'ead a trifle more towards the camera, the lady in the pink shirt,--that's better.
Better take off your spectacles, Sir. Now then--are you ready?

A Comic Exc. 'Old on a bit--I've a fly on my nose.

    [Some of the party giggle; the photograph is successfully
    taken, and the car proceeds.

The Driver. On your left, Ladies and Gentlemen, you have the Prison--the cheapest Hotel in
the Island for parties who intend making a protracted stay here. On our right we are now passing
"Paradise." You will observe that someone has 'ung his 'at and coat up at the entrance, not
being certain of getting in. Notice the tree in front--the finest specimen on the island of
the good old Guernsey hoak.

