 They had passed three or four headlands before the girl halted
and waited for her attendant, who came up muttering to herself and grumbling; compliments from
Jean and caresses from Hilda restored her good humour, and the work of the evening commenced.
"Follow me closely," said the girl; "let your eye be keen and your step firm: the descent is
no child's sport." Jean looked at the cliff, fitted for the flight of gull or cormorant rather
than the foot of man, still less of gentle maiden: Hilda was already over the brink: Jean,
following, saw that she was on a path no broader than a goat's track; the difficulties of the
descent need not be described; it was possible for a clear head and practised foot, to the
nervous or the unsteady the attempt must have been fatal. Arrived at the bottom the climbers
found themselves in a small cleft strewn with huge boulders; the rocks towered high above them.
Hilda glanced at the moon. "We must be quick," said she, showing him some deep caverns in the
rock; "there," she said, "is your home. Here you are safe; my mother alone knows the secret
of these caves. I must mount again; you must climb with me to mark the path more closely."
She sprang to the rock and commenced to ascend as nimbly as she had come down. Jean saw the
necessity of taking every precaution; he noted carefully each feature of the track. Arrived
at the summit she bade him farewell. She pointed out a place where Tita would from time to
time leave him provisions, and said that he would find water in the caves; she then tripped
quickly off. Jean did not linger, seeing that if he did so light would fail him for his return.
He crossed the track for the third time, reached the caves, and slept soundly till dawn.

When he awoke he inspected his strange retreat. He was in a large hall, two hundred feet long,
and some fifty feet high and broad; this chamber was entered by a small orifice of no great
length, through which he had passed on the preceding night; it was warm, and dry except where
the stream of which Hilda had spoken trickled through to the sea. It was the fissure now known
as the Creux Mahie, and to which an easy access has been arranged for the benefit of the curious.
Here Jean passed three months. Hilda frequently visited him, and always kept him supplied with
food; she warned him also when he might safely roam on the cliffs above. There was no obstacle
to her visits, even when they extended to a considerable length, as the mother seemed always
to be satisfied as to her absences when Tita accompanied her; and the latter, whose infirmities
prevented her from descending, had no means of shortening the interviews.

Thus the lovers had opportunity to study each other's characters. The maiden's pure heart knew
no distrust, and Jean was faithful and chivalrous as Sir Galahad. They spoke not always of
love: words were unnecessary to explain what every look betokened. Jean found her skilled in
strange, mystical, lore, but ignorant of all that sways and rules mankind. The history of the
selfish struggles of human interests and passions was to her a sealed book. She had been carefully
shrouded from the knowledge of evil; but, in order to protect her in the rough turbulent little
world in which she lived, it had been necessary to keep her from association with her countrymen,
and so she had never mingled with them except under the charge of her mother, in whose presence
the fiercest were submissive. Jean, therefore, in speaking to her of family intercourse, of
the intermingling of members of the household, of bright chat with friends, opened up to her
views of life of which she had formed no conception. Then he told her of his own people; described
the three generations living under one roof; depicted the daily round, the care of the old
and the young, the work, the return of the workers to their wives, sisters, and children, the
love of the mothers for their infants, the reverence for age, the strong mutual affection of
husband and wife, brother and sister. To these descriptions she listened with a happy smile,
the mission of woman dawning on her; and many were the questions she asked, till she seemed
to have mastered the pictures painted for her. Above all, Jean strained to bring her to the
knowledge of the God of the Christian, for he himself was an earnest, intelligent disciple.
He found her mind clearer than he had expected. Judith (this he now knew was the mother's name)
was a remarkable woman; her mind was lofty, if darkened. While others were satisfied with the
grossness of a material creed her spirit soared aloft. Her Gods commanded her implicit faith,
her unswerving allegiance. Seated on the storm-clouds, sweeping through space, they represented
to her infinite force. She attributed to them no love for mankind, which was in her creed rather
their plaything, but she credited them with the will and the power to scatter good and ill
before they claimed the soul of the hero to their fellowship, or cast into a lower abyss that
of the coward or the traitor. She believed that she saw their giant forms half bending from
their vapoury thrones, and she thought that she read their decrees. Sorceress she may have
been; in those days sorcery was attributed to many who had obtained a knowledge of laws of
nature, then considered occult, now recognized among the guiding principles from which scientific
deductions are drawn. She believed in the power of magic, which she was universally understood
to possess; but she was no vulgar witch: rather was she a worthy priestess of her not ignoble
deities. The effect upon Hilda's mind of the teachings of such a woman is easy to conceive.
She had been allowed to know little of the wild orgies of the barbaric feasts offered to the
Gods by her countrymen, of their brutal excesses, of their human sacrifices: from this knowledge
she had been as far as possible shielded: she knew only of the dim mystic beings, half men,
half Gods, from whose wrath she shrank with terror. To a mind so constituted and trained the
revelation of the story of the infant Christ was a passionate pleasure. She never tired of
listening to the tale of the birth in the stable of Bethlehem; but she loved not to dwell on
the history of the passion and death, which was at that time beyond her understanding. She
drank in with parted lips all that concerned the Holy Mother, of whom she was never weary of
hearing. Jean had a rude drawing of the Madonna and Child, given him by Father Austin: the
figures had the angularity and rigidity of Byzantine art, but the artist had represented his
subject with reverence, and no lack of skill, and she loved to dwell on the pure mother's face,
and on the longing look in the eyes of the Child. She accepted wholly the idea of a God who
loved mankind, of infinite goodness and mercy: if she could not as yet enter into the subtlety
of doctrine she could give that childlike faith which is the envy of doctrinarians.

CHAPTER IV.

REVELATION.

    "I curse the hand that did the deid,
      The heart that thocht the ill,
    The feet that bore him wi' sik speid,
      The comely youth to kill."

    Gil Morrice.--OLD BALLAD.

Jean had often expressed his curiosity to see the interior of the tower, and Hilda had promised
to gratify it. On the 25th of October an opportunity occurred. She informed her lover that
on that day a feast of unusual importance would be held from which none would be absent, and
that her mother would be engaged at it from noon to midnight. On that day, therefore, he walked
freely along the cliffs, and was admitted to the dwelling. He had unconsciously based his idea
of its contents upon his recollections of the squalid abode of Marie Torode, where human skulls,
skeletons, bones of birds and beasts, dried skins, and other ghastly objects had been so grouped
as to add to the superstitious feeling inspired by the repulsive appearance of the crone herself.
His astonishment was therefore proportionate when he saw what to his eyes appeared exceptional
luxury. A wooden partition divided the room on the lower story into two chambers of unequal
size: the larger, in which he stood, was the common dwelling apartment, the other was given
over to Hilda. The upper story, approached by a ladder and also by an external staircase, was
sacred to Judith; Tita occupied some outbuildings. The sitting-room was hung with rich stuffs
of warm and glowing colours; here and there fitful rays of the sun flickered upon gold brocade
and Oriental embroidery; rugs and mats, which must have been offered for sale in the bazaars
of Egypt and Morocco, were littered about in strange contrast with the bracken-strewed floor.
On the walls were inlaid breastplates and helmets, pieces of chain armour, swords and daggers
of exquisite workmanship. On shelves stood drinking vessels of rougher make, but the best that
northern craftsmen could produce. The seats were rude and massive: one of them, placed by a
window fronting the setting sun, was evidently the favourite resting-place of Judith. Above
this seat was a shelf on which lay some of the mysterious scrolls of which Jean had seen specimens
in the possession of the fathers. Instruments of witchcraft, if such existed, must have been
in the upper story: none were visible. All this splendour was manifestly inconsistent with
the homely taste and abstracted mode of thought of the sorceress. In point of fact she was
hardly aware of its existence. The decorator was Tita, in whom was the instinct of the connoisseur,
supported by no inconsiderable knowledge to which she had attained in those early years of
which she never could be induced to speak. When a rich prize was brought into the bay, freighted
with a cargo from Asia, Africa, or the European shores of the Mediterranean, she never failed
to attend the unloading, during which, by the help of cajolery, judicious depreciation, and
other ingenious devices still dear to the virtuoso, she succeeded in obtaining possession of
articles which would have enraptured a modern collector. Judith was apparently indifferent
to a habit which she looked upon as a caprice of her faithful servant, and the only evidence
of her noticing it was her concentration in her own apartments of all that related to her personal
studies and pursuits.

It was now Jean's turn to listen and learn, and Hilda's to explain and instruct. Towards nine
o'clock he was preparing to return. He was indifferent to the darkness, as by this time he
knew the track so well that he crossed it fearlessly at all hours. His hand was on the bolt
when Tita announced in alarm that Judith was returning and was on the point of entering. Hardly
was there time to conceal him behind the hangings before she appeared. Her countenance was
pale and worn, her tone, as Hilda took off her outer garments was weary and sad. "The portents
were hostile and dangerous," she said; "they foretold woe, disaster, ruin. Will the mighty
ones reveal to me the future? I cannot tell! But my spirit must commune with them till dawn
breaks. Dost hear them? They call me now!" She held up her finger as a sudden blast rocked
the tower to its foundations. "Aye," she continued more firmly after a pause, "they will not
forget those who are true to them. But this people! this people!" She hid her face with her
hands as if to cover a painful vision. After a time she rose to her feet and took the girl
by the hand. Leading her to the seat by the window on which she placed herself, and making
her kneel by her side, she said--

"Hilda! the chill mist closes round! my life draws to its end! Nay, weep not, child! were it
not for thee I would long ere this have prayed the gods my masters to remove me from my sojourn
among the degenerate sons of our noble fathers; but I trembled for thy fate, sweet one!" These
last words were almost inexpressibly tender. "I dared not trust thy slight frame to battle
unsheltered with the storm. Now the blast summoning me is sounded. I cannot much longer disobey,
though I may crave for brief respite. But I have found thee refuge! thou wilt be in a safe
haven. Stay! I must speak while the spirit is on me!"

"Mother!" sobbed the girl, clasping the old woman's knees.

"Hilda!" said Judith slowly, "call me no longer by that name! I am not thy mother; before men
only do I call thee daughter. Silence!" she exclaimed imperatively, as Hilda looked quickly
up, doubting whether she heard aright. "Silence! and listen!"

"I have loved thee truly, child, and have nurtured thee as a mother would! and thou art no
stranger! the same blood runs in our veins! Yes! thou art mine! for thy father was my brother.
Does not that give thee to me? Hush! thou shalt hear the tale."

Hilda's were not the only ears that drank in every word of the following story.

"Twenty years ago what a demi-god was Haco! He was a giant, but even men who feared him loved
him. Though brave and strong as Odin himself, his mind was gentle and kind as a maiden's; first
in council, in war, in manly sports, he ever had an open ear and a helping hand for the troubled
and distressed. He was adored, nay, worshipped, by all. What wonder then that when he and the
proud chief Algar courted the same maiden, he was preferred! Thou knowest not, Hilda, the mysteries
of a tender heart; may it be long indeed before thy heart is seared by human passion!" It was
fortunate that darkness hid the burning blush which suffused Hilda's face and neck at this
pious wish. Judith proceeded:--"Thy father wedded and thou wast born. He poured on thy infant
form all the wealth of his great generous heart. Algar nursed his revenge: he dared not act
openly, for our house was as noble as his own--nay, nobler!" she added haughtily, "but he bided
his time. Haco's tower was near the shore, a pleasant, lovely, spot. One night the news was
borne to me that enemies had landed, and that his dwelling was in flames; I hurried towards
it; I was stopped by armed warriors; Algar's men, they said, had hastened to the rescue; the
chief had ordered that no women should leave their homes. It was in vain that I urged and protested.
When at last I reached the spot the struggle was said to be over, and the assailants, beaten
off, were declared to have sailed away. Algar himself came to me with well-assumed grief. He
had arrived, he swore, too late to save. The tower had been fired whilst the inmates slept,
the wife and child had perished; Haco, after performing incredible feats of valour, had fallen
before the strokes of numerous foes; when he himself had come with a chosen band, while sending
the rest of his forces to other posts which the unforeseen danger might threaten, nothing remained
but to avenge the murder. Why recount the caitiffs lies? Where were the signs of landing, of
hasty re-embarkation? Where were the dead of the strangers? Thrown into the sea! he said; it
was foul falsehood, and fouler treachery. I found your father's body; he was smitten and gashed,
but nobler than the living. I touched him and was silent. I knew what none others guessed.
I arose. The spirits of the Gods came over me, and I cursed his slayer. Never had I spoken
so fiercely; men stood and wondered. I prayed the Gods to make the wretch who had caused my
darling's death miserable by land and by sea, by day and by night, in the field and at the
board, loathed by his friends, and scorned by his foes. The Gods heard my imprecations; as
I turned my eyes skywards they looked from their clouds, wrath kindling on their brows, and
Algar's face was white with fear, his hand trembled and his knee shook.

"'We must bury him,' he faltered.

"'Yea,' said I, 'but in a hero's grave, and after the custom of our fathers.'

"There was a murmur of applause. Algar could not refuse.

"They brought the choicest of the boats, they made the sails bright and gay, they put in it
the dead man's arms, and food to accompany him to the land of spirits. Then they bound him
before the mast, his face turned seaward. At sundown they towed the boat to deep water, so
pierced her that she might sink slowly under the waves, and then they left the hero to his
rest. I had gone out with them: alone I said to him my last farewell. But they did not know
my secret. They did not guess that I had ascertained by my art that life was yet in him, that
I had poured between his lips subtle drops which would maintain animation for many days and
nights, during which consciousness might be restored; nor did they imagine that when I kneeled
before him I had stopped the leak by which the water was to flow into the doomed boat. Algar
was now the deceived; it was a living man, not a corpse, who started on that voyage. Haco lives
still, though where my art cannot tell. I thought that Marie Torode knew, and sought her on
her death-bed to question her, but either she could not or she would not tell." Hilda's mind
was in such confusion that she could not speak. The old woman continued. "Algar lived on--yes,
lived that he might suffer all the evils with which my curse loaded him, and died that he might
be hurled into the abyss where traitors and cravens writhe and groan. Enough of him!

"When I returned to my tower, a figure was crouching before the hearth: it was Tita, and you
were in her arms. The faithful creature, whom your father had chosen from a band of captives
to be your nurse, had, unperceived, saved your life from the flames. Thenceforward you were
my care. I took your mother's place as best I could. Others knew not your parentage, nor did
they dare to question me. None suspected the truth."

When she reached this point she bent over the kneeling girl and gave her a kiss, tender as
a mother's if not a mother's kiss; her fingers caressed the head bowed upon her knees; for
a time the silence was only broken by Hilda's sobs. She then spoke again, this time quickly,
sternly, as if to prevent interruption.

"I cannot leave thee alone, and I will not! Listen, child, and be silent! What I now tell thee
is beyond thy young understanding: thou hast but to shape thy will to my bidding: it is for
me to launch thy vessel on its voyage, the Gods will help thy riper judgment to steer its course!
The time has come when thou must wed! I have chosen for thee a suitor, the chief to whom all
thy countrymen bend the knee. Garthmund claims thee as his bride; ere eight days expire the
marriage feast will be held. He is of noble birth, there is none nobler; he is young and strong,
and should be favoured by the Gods if he prove worthy of them. He is a fitting bridegroom for
Haco's daughter."

The girl was dazed and trembling. She knew this chief: he answered Judith's description, but
was rough and coarse. Had she not met Jean she might not have dared to refuse, but now she
felt that death would be more welcome than this marriage. "Spare me, mother!" she said, as
if she had not heard the disclaimer of maternity. "I am too young, too weak." The old woman
pressed her hand on the girl's lips. "We will not speak further to-night," she said; "thou
canst not see Garthmund for three days, for so long the feast will last. May the Gods protect
thee!" She rose: the fitful moonlight streamed on her gaunt form; she turned and slowly ascended
to her chamber.

The terrified girl quickly released Jean, who led her from the tower. If she was broken and
trembling he was erect and resolute; no longer the soft lover, but the prompt man of action.
She felt the bracing influence. "We have three days," he said. "Within that time we must flee.
I will not return to the cave; my task must be to repair the boat." He mentioned certain articles
which he begged her to provide, pressed her to his breast, and disappeared in the darkness.

At daylight he examined the little vessel. She was no worse than she had been, as each incoming
tide, reaching the place where she was secured, had floated her, but the rock had opened a
large jagged fissure. Hilda brought him such materials as she could procure, a log of wood,
bark which she stitched with her own hands, a hatchet and nails. Jean utilized also the vraick
with which the sand was strewn. He worked without fear of detection, knowing that the whole
population was inland; but the lovers had to rely on themselves alone, for, when there was
a question of flight, Tita was no longer to be trusted.

On the third day Jean found the boat fairly seaworthy. Hilda felt a severe pang at leaving
Judith, who had not reverted to the subject of her marriage. Whether her parent or not, she
loved her dearly; she felt also the pain of parting with Tita, but her resolution never swerved.
She had given her heart to Jean; she felt also a presentiment that she would discover her father;
while it was her belief that the parting from her old associates was but temporary.

When the sun went down Jean set his sail, meaning to make a rapid dash across the bay, and
seeing no cause for concealing his movements. There was more swell than he liked for so frail
a craft, but wind and tide were favourable to the enterprise, and the night was exceptionally
bright, the moon being full; this brightness would have been fatal had the inhabitants been
on the alert, but under present circumstances the pale beams were welcome. Hilda took the helm;
she knew every passage in the labyrinth of submerged rocks, and they were soon in comparatively
open water. Jean then assumed control, wrapping the maiden in his cloak, for the waves were
tossing their spray over the boat as she heeled over to the breeze.

They had traversed in safety three-fourths of their course when Jean, looking seaward, saw
a dark sail bearing down on them. One of the pirate ships, delayed by contrary winds, was hurrying
homeward, the crew of five men hoping to arrive ere the feast was over. Jean's hope that the
boat might not be discovered was soon dispelled: the vessel altered her course slightly and
hailed. Jean made no answer. The pirate was evidently in no mood to parley; the crew were in
a fierce temper, angry and discontented at the postponement of their arrival. She made a deliberate
attempt to run the boat down. Jean divined her object and, putting up his helm sharply at the
right moment, let her shoot by him astern; he then resumed his course. A second attempt was
clumsier, and was easily evaded; the assailants were hurried and impatient; nor did they know
the seamanlike qualities of the man with whom they were dealing. But Jean saw that ultimate
escape was hopeless, and this was equally apparent to Hilda who, however, though pale as death,
gave a firm pressure of the hand in response to his grasp. At this moment an object glimmered
under the youth's feet: stooping down he touched the shell. The hermit's parting words flashed
on his mind: he seized on the hope of rescue, and sounded two loud and clear blasts.

The pirates now altered their tactics. Handling their vessel with more care they succeeded,
after two or three unsuccessful attempts, in ranging alongside and grappling the boat. A man
sprung on board and seized Hilda. "A rare booty!" he cried,--"the Gods repent of their waywardness."
Jean was engaged with those of the crew who had seized the boat; the man laughingly gave the
girl a rough embrace: it was the last act he had to record before entering the spirit world.
Hilda drew from her bosom one of the daggers which Jean had noticed on the tower walls, whose
blade, still sharp and keen, might have been forged by a Damascus smith; it struck deep to
the heart of the ruffian, who fell lifeless into the waves. Jean had now freed the craft, but
the respite was short: before she had made much progress she was again captured. The pirates,
furious at the death of their comrade, made a determined onslaught. Jean, fighting desperately,
received from behind a terrific blow which laid him senseless. But a superstitious feeling
made them hesitate before committing further outrage; they had recognized Hilda, and feared
the consequence of Judith's vengeance if she were injured. There was no time, however, for
delay; the, rude repairs, torn by the trampling feet, had given way, and the leak had re-opened:
the boat was fast sinking. The pirates cared not for Jean's lifeless body; that might sink
or swim; but they felt they must save the girl whatever might be her future doom. Even their
hearts softened somewhat as they watched her erect in the sinking boat, her face pallid, her
fair hair shining in the moonlight, but her lips set, her lovely eyes bent tearless on her
prostrate lover, her right hand, holding the blood-stained dagger, hanging listlessly by her side.

Watching an opportunity, a stalwart youth seized her from behind and pinned her arms. The next
moment he himself was seized as if he were a dog, and hurled into the water. The new combatant,
whose arrival had so effectually changed the aspect of affairs, was the hermit, who followed
up his first stroke by another still more decisive. Springing into the pirate craft, wrenching
a weapon from the grasp of the chief of the assailants, he drove before him the three remaining
men, terror-struck at his sudden and inexplicable appearance, his superhuman size and strength.
One by one he swept them overboard; then grasping a huge stone, which formed part of the ballast,
he dashed it with the full force of his gigantic strength through the planks of the boat, which
at once began to fill. All this was the work of a few moments. He then leaped into the skiff,
which sank as he swiftly transferred to his own vessel its two occupants.

Before another hour was over, Jean, stretched on a pallet, was receiving the attention of loving
hands in a cell of the Lihou monastery.

CHAPTER V.

AFFLICTION.

    "The race of Thor and Odin
    Held their battles by my side,
    And the blood of man was mingling
    Warmly with my chilly tide."

    Danube and the Euxine.--AYTOUN.

Father Austin received his pupil's companion with the courtesy due to her distress, but with
much misgiving. After tending his patient, whose situation was critical, he paced thoughtfully
towards the cell in which he had placed her, revolving in his mind the difficulties of the
case. His amazement was intense when he slowly opened the door. The maiden was kneeling, her
back towards him; before her was the little picture of the Madonna; she was praying aloud;
her words were simple but passionately pathetic; she threw herself and her lover upon the mercy
of the Holy Mother with a trust so absolute, a confidence so infinite, that the monk could
hardly refrain from tears. How had he been blinded! as he looked and listened the scales fell
from his eyes: he humbly owned his error.

The noise of his step startled her; she rose and looked at him inquiringly. "Maiden," he said,
answering her appealing look, "his fate is in the hands of God, whose ears are ever open to
the prayers of those that fear Him."

Often and often had Jean spoken to her of Father Austin; she loved him already, but she had
yet to fathom the nobleness of his soul. His single-heartedness and abnegation of self, his
tenderness and quick sympathy (virtues tempering his fierce abhorrence of Paganism), his stern
reprobation of the evil, and his yearning for the good, in the untutored barbarians among whom
he laboured, were gradually revealed in the discourses which they held daily while Jean lay
between life and death. Reaping and garnering what Jean had sown, he scattered fresh seed,
opening out to her the great history of God in man. Qualities hitherto unsuspected in her developed;
if an apt pupil, she was an instructive teacher of the wealth of charity and purity that dwells
in an untainted woman's heart. And she had another friend: the hermit watched over her with
touching care and assiduity. He appeared strangely attracted to her; the holy fathers marvelled
to see this rough being, who had seemed to them an animal to be feared while pitied, caring
for the maiden's comfort with a woman's gentleness: he seemed never weary of contemplating
her, sometimes murmuring to himself as he did so. Any little delicacy that the island could
afford, game, fish, shellfish, was provided for her by him. Once, thinking her couch hard,
he disappeared and returned bearing, whence none knew, soft stuffs better fitted for her tender
form; on this occasion the whole man seemed transformed, when he stepped in with a smile in
his big frank eyes, and a ruddy glow on his bronzed scarred cheeks, placed his offering at
her feet, and strode away. Strange, too, to say, Hilda seemed to return the feeling: happy
in the presence of Austin, she was yet with him as the pupil with the master; but with the
recluse she was gentle, affectionate, and even playful. The monks attempted not to solve the
puzzle of the bond that knitted together the two strange beings; analysis of character troubled
little their saintly minds.

At length consciousness returned; Jean opened his eyes and recognised Austin. This was a joyful
moment. Quiet was all that was now necessary to complete the restoration of his health, which
could not, however, be anticipated for a considerable time. The first inquiry of the patient
was for Hilda, and he was allowed to see her; on the next day they were permitted to interchange
a few words, after which Austin explained what he had already decided. Hilda, he pointed out,
could not fitly remain in Lihou, where she had been allowed to reside only until her lover
was out of danger; the laws of the establishment, which forbade the presence of women, must
now be put in force, but a fitting home had been provided for her; she would be placed with
the Sisters at the Vale; the hermit would conduct her thither on the following day. The girl
bowed to this decision, sorely as she grieved to leave him she loved; the next morning they
parted, and she embarked with her guardian who, shielding her lovingly from all harm, placed
her, ere nightfall, in her new abode.

