YULE-TIDE IN MANY LANDS

                                  BY

                           MARY P. PRINGLE

      Reference Librarian, Minnesota Public Library Commission

                                 and

                            CLARA A. URANN

                             Illustrated

                                  by

                            L.J. Bridgman

                         and from photographs

                                BOSTON

                      LOTHROP.

       *       *       *       *       *

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Thanks are due to the following publishers for permission to reprint poems: Houghton Mifflin
Company for "King Olaf's Christmas" by H. W. Longfellow, "Night of Marvels" by Violante Do
Ceo; Paul Elder & Company for "The Christmas Tree" by H. S. Russell, "At Christmas Time"; Edgar
S. Werner & Company for "The Christmas Sheaf" by Mrs. A. M. Tomlinson; John Lane Company for
"A Palm Branch from Palestine" by M. Y. Lermontov; American Ecclesiastical Review for "The
Eve of Christmas" by Pope Leo XIII; E. P. Dutton & Company for "The Voice of the Christ-child"
by Phillips Brooks.

MARY P. PRINGLE

CLARA A. URANN

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I.    YULE-TIDE OF THE ANCIENTS

II.   YULE-TIDE IN ENGLAND

III.  YULE-TIDE IN GERMANY

IV.   YULE-TIDE IN SCANDINAVIA

V.    YULE-TIDE IN RUSSIA

VI.   YULE-TIDE IN FRANCE

VII.  YULE-TIDE IN ITALY

VIII. YULE-TIDE IN SPAIN

IX.   YULE-TIDE IN AMERICA

      INDEX

ILLUSTRATIONS

Christmas in Naples.

As early as two thousand years before Christ Yule-tide was celebrated by the Aryans. They were
sun-worshipers and believed the sun was born each morning, rode across the upper world, and
sank into his grave at night.

Day after day, as the sun's power diminished, these primitive people feared that he would eventually
be overcome by darkness and forced to remain in the under world.

When, therefore, after many months, he apparently wheeled about and grew stronger and stronger,
they felt that he had been born again. So it came about that at Hweolor-tid, "the turning-time,"[1]
there was great rejoicing at the annual re-birth of the sun.

In the myths and legends of these, our Indo-European ancestors, we find the origin of many
of the Yule-tide customs now in vogue.

[Footnote 1: Yule-tide]

According to the Younger Edda, Wodin or Odin, the pioneer of the North, a descendant of Saturn,
fled out of Asia. Going through Russia to Saxland (Germany), he conquered that country and
left one of his sons as ruler. Then he visited Frankland, Jutland, Sweden, and Norway and established
each one of his many sons on a throne.

This pioneer traveler figures under nearly two hundred different names, and so it is difficult
to follow him in his wanderings. As Wodin, he established throughout the northern nations many
of the observances and customs common to the people of the Northland to-day.

The Edda gives an ancient account of Balder, the sun-god, who was slain because of the jealousy
of Loki (fire). Loki knew that everything in nature except the mistletoe had promised not to
injure the great god Balder. So he searched for the mistletoe until he found it growing on
an oak-tree "on the eastern slope of Valhalla." He cut it off and returned to the place where
the gods were amusing themselves by using Balder as a target, hurling stones and darts, and
trying to strike him with their battle-axes. But all these weapons were harmless. Then Loki,
giving the twig of mistletoe to the blind god, Höder, directed his hand and induced him to
throw it. When the mistletoe struck Balder it pierced him through and through and he fell lifeless.

[Footnote 2: From Matthew Arnold's "Balder Dead."]

Great excitement prevailed among the assembled gods and goddesses when Balder was struck dead
and sank into Hel,[3] and they would have slain the god of darkness had it not occurred during
their peace-stead, which was never to be desecrated by deeds of violence. The season was supposed
to be one of peace on earth and good-will to man. This is generally attributed to the injunction
of the angels who sang at the birth of Christ, but according to a much older story the idea
of peace and good-will at Yule-tide was taught centuries before Christ.

[Footnote 3: Hel or "his grave"; the terms were once synonymous.]

According to the Edda, gifts from the gods and goddesses were laid on Balder's bier and he,
in turn, sent gifts back from the realm of darkness into which he had fallen. However, it probably
is from the Roman Saturnalia that the free exchange of presents and the spirit of revelry have
been derived.

The Druids held the mistletoe in great reverence because of its mysterious birth. When the
first new growth was discovered it was gathered by the white-robed priests, who cut it from
the main bough with a golden sickle never used for any other purpose.

The food peculiar to this season of rejoicing has retained many features of the feasting recorded
among the earlier people. The boar made his appearance in mythological circles when one was
offered as a gift to Frey, god of rain, sunshine, and the fruits of the earth. This boar was
a remarkable animal; he could run faster than a horse, through the air and over water. Darkness
could not overtake him, for he was symbolical of the sun, his golden bristles typifying the
sun's rays.

At one time the boar was believed to be emblematical of golden grain, as he was the first to
teach mankind the art of plowing. Because of this service he was most revered by our mythological
ancestors.

In an account of a feast given in Valhalla to the dead heroes of many battles, Saehrimnir,
a sacred boar, was served. Huge pieces were apportioned to the deceased heroes and the meat
had such a revivifying effect that, restored to life, they called for arms and began to fight
their battles over again.

An abundance of heavenly mead made from goats' milk and honey was provided for the feasts and
on occasions ale, too, was served.

Toasts were usually drunk in honor of Bragi, god of poetry, eloquence, and song. The gods pledged
themselves to perform remarkable deeds of courage and valor as they tossed off horn after horn
of mead and ale. Each time their mighty valor grew until there was no limit set to their attainments.
It is possible that their boastful pledges may have given rise to the term, to brag.

Apples were the favorite fruit, as they prevented the approach of age and kept the gods and
goddesses perpetually young and vigorous.

Certainly Yule-tide was a very merry season among the ancient people who feasted, drank, and
danced in honor of the return of the sun, the god of light and new life.

When messengers went through the various countries bearing tidings of a new religion and of
the birth of a Son who brought light and new life into the whole world, they endeavored to
retain as many of the established customs as possible, but gave to the old-time festivals a
finer character and significance.

As the fact of Christ's birth was not recorded and there was no certainty as to its date, the
early Christian Fathers very wisely ascribed it to Yule-tide, changing the occasion from the
birthday of the sun to that of the Son. For a while the birth of Christ was celebrated on dates
varying from the first to the sixth of January; on the dates of certain religious festivals
such as the Jewish Passover or the Feast of Tabernacles; but the twenty-fifth of December,
the birthday of the sun, was ever the favorite date.

