Transcriber's note: Punctuation normalized, original spelling retained.

LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE OF POPULAR LITERATURE AND SCIENCE.

OCTOBER, 1877.

CHESTER AND THE DEE.

TWO PAPERS.--I.

The history of Chester is that of a key. It was the last city that gave up Harold's unlucky
cause and surrendered to William the Conqueror, and the last that fell in the no less unlucky
cause of the Stuart king against the Parliamentarians. In much earlier times it was held by
the famous Twentieth Legion, the Valens Victrix, as the key of the Roman dominion in the north-west
of Britain, and at present it has peculiarities of position, as well as of architecture, which
make it unique in England and a lodestone to Americans. Curiously planted on the border of
the newest and most bustling manufacturing district in England, close to the coalfields of
North Wales, the mines of Lancashire, the quays of its sea-rival Liverpool and the mills of
grimy, wealthy Manchester, it still exercises, besides its artistic and historic supremacy,
a bonâ fide ecclesiastical sway over most of these new places. It is the first ancient city
accessible to American travellers, many of whom have given practical tokens of their affectionate
remembrance of it by largely subscribing to the fund for the restoration of the cathedral,
a work that has already cost some eighty thousand pounds.

The neighborhood of Chester is as suggestive of antiquity and foreigners as the city itself.
Volumes might be written about the quaint, Dutch-like scenery of the low rich land reclaimed
from the sea; the broad, sandy estuary of the Dee, with the square-headed peninsula, the Wirrall,
which divides this quiet river from the noisy Mersey; the Hoylake, Parkgate and Neston fisher-folk
on the sandy shores, with their queer lives, monotonous scratching-up of mussels and cockles,
a never-failing trade, their terms of praise--"the biggest scrat," for instance, "in all the
island," being the form of commendation for the woman who can with her rake at the end of a
long pole scratch up most shellfish in a given time; the low, fertile green pastures, the creamy
cheese and the eight yearly cheese-fairs. The city itself is the most foreign-looking in all
England, and the inhabitants have the good taste to be proud of this. The river Dee--Milton's
"wizard stream"--celebrated both by English and Welsh bards, is not seen to as much advantage
under the walls of the Roman "camp" (castra=Chester) as elsewhere, but its bridges serve to
supply the want of fine scenery, especially the Old Bridge, which crosses the river just at
its bend, and whose massive pointed arches took the place, when they were first built, of a
ferry by which the city was entered at the "Ship Gate," whence now you look over "the Cop"
or high bank on the right side of the stream, and view, as from a dike in Holland, the reclaimed
land stretching eight miles beyond Chester, though the resemblance ceases at Saltney, where
behind the iron-works tower the Welsh hills--Moel-Famman conspicuous above the rest--that bound
the Vale of Clwyd.

The Dee is more a Welsh than an English river. It rises in the bleak mountain-region of Merionethshire,
the most intensely Welsh of all counties, above Bala Lake, which is commonly but incorrectly
called its source. Thence it flows through the Vale of Llangollen, famous in poetry, and waters
the meadows of Wynnestay, the splendid home of one of Wales's most national representatives,
Sir Watkin Williams Wynn, and only beyond that does it become English by flowing round and
into Cheshire. On a very tiny scale the Dee follows something of the course of the Rhine: three
streamlets combine to form it; these unite at the village of Llanwchllyn, and the river flows
on, a mere mountain-torrent, past an old farmhouse, Caer-gai, lying on a desolate moor at the
head of Bala Lake, and through the lake itself, after which its scenery alternates, like the
Rhine's below Constance, between rocky gorges and flat moist meadows dotted with hamlets, churches
and towns. Bala--otherwise Lin-Jegid and Pimblemere ("Lake of the Five Parishes")--has some
traditional connection with the great British epic, or rather with its accessories--the Morte
d'Arthur--of which Tennyson has availed himself in Enid, mentioning that Enid's gentle ministrations
soothed the wounded Geraint

    As the south-west that blowing Bala Lake,
    Fills all the sacred Dee.

Arthur's own home, according to Spenser, was at the source of the Dee: Vortigern's castle was
near by on the head-waters of the Conway; and "under the foot of Rauran's mossy base" was the
dwelling of old Timon, where Merlin came and gave to his care the wonderful infant who was
to become the Christian Hercules of Britain. "Rauran" is the mountain which in Welsh is Arran-Pon-Llin,
and which with its rocky shelves overlooks the yews of Bala's churches and the unaccustomed
shade trees which the little town boasts in its principal streets. The lake, quiet and hardly
visited as it is now, has great resources which are likely to be called upon in the future,
and a survey was made ten years ago with a view of supplying Liverpool, Manchester, Blackburn,
Birkenhead, etc. with water whenever a fresh demand for it should arise. This would imply the
building of a breakwater at the narrow outlet of the lake, the damming up of a few mountain
passes, and the "impounding" of a tributary of the Dee below the lake--the Tryweryn, which
has an extensive drainage-area; but these works are still only projected.

There is scarcely an English brook that has not some historical associations, some poetical
reminiscences, some attractions beyond those of scenery. Wherever water, forest and meadow
were combined, an abbey was generally planted. Bala Lake, with its fishing-rights, once belonged
to the Cistercian abbey of Basingwerk, while the Dee just above Llangollen was the property
of the abbey of Valle Crucis, whose beautiful ruins still stand on its banks. Before we reach
them we pass by the country of the Welsh hero, Owen Glendower, from whom are descended many
of the families of this neighborhood and others--the Vaughans, for instance; by Glendower's
prison at Corwen, and the Parliament House at Dolgelly, where he signed a treaty with France,
and where the beautiful oak carving of the roof would alone repay a visitor for his trouble
in getting there. The Dee is for the most part wanting in striking natural features, but here
and there steep rocks enclose its foaming waters; deep banks covered with trees break the rugged
shore-line; a village, such as Llanderfel with a tumbledown bridge, lies nestled in the valley;
and coracles shoot here and there over the stream. These primitive boats, basketwork covered
with hides, or, as used now, canvas coated with tar, are propelled by a paddle, and are much
used for netting salmon. Near Bangor the fishermen are so skilful that they generally win in
the coracle-races got up periodically by enthusiastic revivalists of old national sports.

Llangollen Vale has a beauty of its own, the family likeness of which to that of all valleys
in the hearts of mountains makes it none the less welcome. The picturesqueness of thatched
houses and a dilapidation of masonry which only age makes beautiful marks the difference between
this valley and the Alpine ones with their trim, clean toy houses, or the Transatlantic ones
with their square, solid, black log huts and huge well-sweeps; otherwise the fresh greenery,
the purple mountain-shadows, the subdued sounds, no one knows whence, the sense of peace and
solitude, are akin to every other beautiful valley-scene of mingled wildness and cultivation.
A traveller can hardly help making comparisons, yet much escapes him of the peculiar charm
that hangs round every place, and is too subtle to disclose itself to the eye of a mere passer.
You must live at least six months in one place before its true character unfolds: the broad
beauties you see at once, but it needs the microscope of habit to find out the rarest charms.
Therefore it is much easier to descant on the tangible, striking beauty of Valle Crucis Abbey
than on the aggregate loveliness of Llangollen Vale; and perhaps it is this lack of familiarity
that leads novelists, poets and others to dwell so much more and with such detail on buildings
than on natural scenery. It may not be given them to understand upon how much higher a plane
of beauty stands a bed of ferns on a rocky ledge, a clump of trees even on a flat meadow, and
especially a tangled forest-scene or a view of distant mountains in a sunset glow, or the surface
of water undotted by a sail, than the highest effect of man-made beauty, be it even York Minster
or the Parthenon. What man does has value by reason of the meaning in it, and of course man
cannot but fall short of the perfection of his own meaning; whereas Nature is of herself perfection,
and perfection in which there is no effort. Valle Crucis is hardly a rival of Fountains or
Rivaulx. The Cistercians in the beginning of their foundation were reformers, ascetic, and
essentially agriculturists. Their great leader, Bernard of Clairvaux, the advocate of silence
and work, once said, "Believe me, I have learnt more from trees than ever I learnt from men."
But decay came even into this community of farmer-monks, and the praise and panegyric of the
abbey, as handed down to us by a Welsh poet, betray unconsciously things hardly to the credit
of a monastic house, for the abbot, "the pope of the glen," he tells us, gave entertainments
"like the leaves in summer," with "vocal and instrumental music," wine, ale and curious dishes
of fish and fowl, "like a carnival feast," and "a thousand apples for dessert."

