
    Then from a haughty, asking eye
      I scanned the uninvited pair,
      And waited sternly for reply.
    One shape was more than mortal fair;
      He seemed embodied out of light;
      The sunbeams rippled through his hair;
    His cheeks were of the color bright
      That dyes young evening, and his eyes
      Glowed like twin planets, that to sight
    Increase in lustre and in size,
      The more intent and long our gaze.
      Full on the future's pain and prize,
    Half seen through hanging cloud and haze,
      His steady, far, and yearning look
      Blazed forth beneath his crown of bays.
    His radiant vesture, as it shook,
      Dripped with great drops of golden dew;
      And at each step his white steed took,
    The sparks beneath his hoof-prints flew,
      As if a half-cooled lava-flood
      He trod, each firm step breaking through.
    This figure seemed so wholly good,
      That as a moth which reels in light,
      Unknown till then, nor understood,
    My dazzled soul swam; and I might
      Have swooned, and in that presence died,
      From the mere splendor of the sight,
    Had not his lips, serene with pride
      And cold, cruel purpose, made me swerve
      From aught their fierce curl might deride.
    A clarion of a single curve
      Hung at his side by slender bands;
      And when he blew, with faintest nerve,
    Life burst throughout those lonely lands;
      Graves yawned to hear, Time stood aghast,
      The whole world rose and clapped its hands.
    Then on the other shape I cast
      My eyes. I know not how or why
      He held my spellbound vision fast.
    Instinctive terror bade me fly,
      But curious wonder checked my will.
      The mysteries of his awful eye,
    So dull, so deep, so dark, so chill,
      And the calm pity of his brow
      And massive features hard and still,
    Lovely, but threatening, and the bow
      Of his sad neck, as if he told
    Earth's graves and sorrows as they grow,
    Cast me in musings manifold
      Before his pale, unanswering face.
      A thousand winters might have rolled
    Above his head. I saw no trace
      Of youth or age, of time or change,
      Upon his fixed immortal grace.
    A smell of new-turned mould, a strange,
      Dank, earthen odor from him blew,
      Cold as the icy winds that range
    The moving hills which sailors view
      Floating around the Northern Pole,
      With horrors to the shivering crew.
    His garments, black as minèd coal,
      Cast midnight shadows on his way;
      And as his black steed softly stole,
    Cat-like and stealthy, jocund day
      Died out before him, and the grass,
      Then sear and tawny, turned to gray.
    The hardy flowers that will not pass
      For the shrewd autumn's chilling rain
      Closed their bright eyelids, and, alas!
    No summer opened them again.
      The strong trees shuddered at his touch,
      And shook their foliage to the plain.
    A sheaf of darts was in his clutch;
      And wheresoe'er he turned the head
      Of any dart, its power was such
    That Nature quailed with mortal dread,
      And crippling pain and foul disease
      For sorrowing leagues around him spread.
    Whene'er he cast o'er lands and seas
      That fatal shaft, there rose a groan;
      And borne along on every breeze
    Came up the church-bell's solemn tone,
      And cries that swept o'er open graves,
      And equal sobs from cot and throne.
    Against the winds she tasks and braves,
      The tall ship paused, the sailors sighed,
      And something white slid in the waves.
    One lamentation, far and wide,
      Followed behind that flying dart.
      Things soulless and immortal died,
    As if they filled the self-same part;
      The flower, the girl, the oak, the man,
      Made the same dust from pith or heart,
    Then spoke I, calmly as one can
      Who with his purpose curbs his fear,
      And thus to both my question ran:--
    "What two are ye who cross me here,
      Upon these desolated lands,
      Whose open fields lie waste and drear
    Beneath the tramplings of the bands
      Which two great armies send abroad,
      With swords and torches in their hands?"
    To which the bright one, as a god
      Who slowly speaks the words of fate,
      Towards his dark comrade gave a nod,
    And answered:--"I anticipate
      The thought that is your own reply.
      You know him, or the fear and hate
    Upon your pallid features lie.
      Therefore I need not call him Death:
      But answer, soldier, who am I?"
    Thereat, with all his gathered breath,
      He blew his clarion; and there came,
      From life above and life beneath,
    Pale forms of vapor and of flame,
      Dim likenesses of men who rose
      Above their fellows by a name.
    There curved the Roman's eagle-nose,
      The Greek's fair brows, the Persian's beard,
      The Punic plume, the Norman bows;
    There the Crusader's lance was reared;
      And there, in formal coat and vest,
      Stood modern chiefs; and one appeared,
    Whose arms were folded on his breast,
      And his round forehead bowed in thought,
      Who shone supreme above the rest.
    Again the bright one quickly caught
      His words up, as the martial line
      Before my eyes dissolved to nought:--
    "Soldier, these heroes all are mine;
      And I am Glory!" As a tomb
      That groans on opening, "Say, were thine,"
    Cried the dark figure. "I consume
      Thee and thy splendors utterly.
      More names have faded in my gloom
    Than chronicles or poesy
      Have kept alive for babbling earth
      To boast of in despite of me."
    The other cried, in scornful mirth,
      "Of all that was or is thou curse,
      Thou dost o'errate thy frightful worth!
    Between the cradle and the hearse,
      What one of mine has lived unknown,
      Whether through triumph or reverse?
    For them the regal jewels shone,
      For them the battled line was spread;
      Victorious or overthrown,
    My splendor on their path was shed.
      They lived their life, they ruled their day:
      I hold no commerce with the dead.
    Mistake me not, and falsely say,
    'Lo, this is slow, laborious Fame,
      Who cares for what has passed away,'--
    My twin-born brother, meek and tame,
      Who troops along with crippled Time,
      And shrinks at every cry of shame,
    And halts at every stain and crime;
      While I, through tears and blood and guilt,
      Stride on, remorseless and sublime.
    War with his offspring as thou wilt;
      Lay thy cold lips against their cheek.
      The poison or the dagger-hilt
    Is what my desperate children seek.
      Their dust is rubbish on the hills;
      Beyond the grave they would not speak.
    Shall man surround his days with ills,
      And live as if his only care
      Were how to die, while full life thrills
    His bounding blood? To plan and dare,
      To use life is life's proper end:
      Let death come when it will, and where!"--
    "You prattle on, as babes that spend
      Their morning half within the brink
      Of the bright heaven from which they wend;
    But what I am you dare not think.
      Thick, brooding shadow round me lies;
      You stare till terror makes you wink;
    I go not, though you shut your eyes.
      Unclose again the loathful lid,
      And lo, I sit beneath the skies,
    As Sphinx beside the pyramid!"
      So Death, with solemn rise and fall
      Of voice, his sombre mind undid.
    He paused; resuming,--"I am all;
      I am the refuge and the rest;
      The heart aches not beneath my pall.
    O soldier, thou art young, unpressed
      By snarling grief's increasing swarm;
      While joy is dancing in thy breast,
    Fly from the future's fated harm;
      Rush where the fronts of battle meet,
      And let me take thee on my arm!"
    Said Glory,--"Warrior, fear deceit,
      Where Death gives counsel. Run thy race;
      Bring the world cringing to thy feet!
    Surely no better time nor place
      Than this, where all the Nation calls
      For help, and weakness and disgrace
    Lag in her tents and council-halls,
      And down on aching heart and brain
      Blow after blow unbroken falls.
    Her strength flows out through every vein;
      Mere time consumes her to the core;
    Her stubborn pride becomes her bane.
    In vain she names her children o'er;
      They fail her in her hour of need;
      She mourns at desperation's door.
    Be thine the hand to do the deed,
      To seize the sword, to mount the throne,
      And wear the purple as thy meed!
    No heart shall grudge it; not a groan
      Shall shame thee. Ponder what it were
      To save a land thus twice thy own!"
    Use gave a more familiar air
      To my companions; and I spoke
      My heart out to the ethereal pair:--
    "When in her wrath the Nation broke
      Her easy rest of love and peace,
      I was the latest who awoke.
    I sighed at passion's mad increase.
      I strained the traitors to my heart.
      I said, 'We vex them; let us cease.'
    I would not play the common part.
      Tamely I heard the Southrons' brag:
      I said, 'Their wrongs have made them smart.'
    At length they struck our ancient flag,--
      Their flag as ours, the traitors damned!--
      And braved it with their patchwork-rag.
    I rose, when other men had calmed
      Their anger in the marching throng;
      I rose, as might a corpse embalmed,
    Who hears God's mandate, 'Right my wrong!'
      I rose and set me to His deed,
      With His great Spirit fixed and strong.
    I swear, that, when I drew this sword,
      And joined the ranks, and sought the strife,
      I drew it in Thy name, O Lord!
    I drew against my brother's life,
      Even as Abraham on his child
      Drew slowly forth his priestly knife.
    No thought of selfish ends defiled
      The holy fire that burned in me;
      No gnawing care was thus beguiled.
    My children clustered at my knee;
      Upon my braided soldier's coat
      My wife looked,--ah, so wearily!--
    It made her tender blue eyes float.
      And when my wheeling rowels rang,
      Or on the floor my sabre smote,
    The sound went through her like a pang.
      I saw this; and the days to come
      Forewarned me with an iron clang,
    That drowned the music of the drum,
      That made the rousing bugle faint;
      And yet I sternly left my home,--
    Haply to fall by noisome taint
      Of foul disease, without a deed
      To sound in rhyme or shine in paint;
    But, oh, at least, to drop a seed,
      Humble, but faithful to the last,
      Sown by my Country in her need!
    O Death, come to me, slow or fast;
      I'll do my duty while I may!
      Though sorrow burdens every blast,
    And want and hardship on me lay
      Their bony gripes, my life is pledged,
      And to my Country given away!
    Nor feel I any hope, new-fledged,
      Arise, strong Glory, at thy voice.
      Our sword the people's will has edged,
    Our rule stands on the people's choice.
      This land would mourn beneath a crown,
      Where born slaves only could rejoice.
    How should the Nation keep it down?
      What would a despot's fortunes be,
      After his days of strength had flown,
    Amidst this people, proud and free,
      Whose histories from such sources run?
      The thought is its own mockery.
    I pity the audacious one
      Who may ascend that thorny throne,
      And bide a single setting sun.
    Day dies; my shadow's length has grown;
      The sun is sliding down the west.
      That trumpet in my camp was blown.
    From yonder high and wooded crest
      I shall behold my squadron's camp,
      Prepared to sleep its guarded rest
    In the low, misty, poisoned damp
      That wears the strength, and saps the heart,
      And drains the surgeon's watching lamp.
    Hence, phantoms! in God's peace depart!
      I was not fashioned for your will:
      I scorn the trump, and brave the dart!"
    They grinned defiance, lingering still.
      "I charge ye quit me, in His name
      Who bore His cross against the hill!--
    By Him who died a death of shame,
      That I might live, and ye might die,--
      By Christ the Martyr!"--As a flame
    Leaps sideways when the wind is high,
      The bright one bounded from my side,
      At that dread name, without reply;
    And Death drew in his mantle wide,
      And shuddered, and grew ghastly pale,
      As if his dart had pricked his side.
    There came a breath, a lonely wail,
    Out of the silence o'er the land;
      Whether from souls of bliss or bale,
    What mortal brain may understand?
      Only I marked the phantoms went
      Closely together, hand in hand,
    As if upon one errand bent.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRUE STORY OF LUIGI.

A white dove flew down into the market-place one summer morning, and, undisturbed among all
the wheels and hoofs, followed the footsteps of Luigi.

He carried in one hand a sunflower, and thoughtlessly, while it hung there, with nervous fingers
scattered the seeds as he went his way. So that the dove cooed in her little swelling throat,
gathered what Luigi spilled, and, startled at last by a frisking hound, flew up and alighted
on the tray which Luigi's other hand poised airily on his head, and was borne along with all
the company of fair white things there in the sunshine.

The street-urchins warned Luigi of the intruder among his wares, and then, slyly putting up
his hand, the boy tossed the seeds in a shower about the tray. Off flew the dove, and back
with the returning gust she fluttered, and, pausing only to catch her seed, she came and went,
wheeling in flashing circles round his head as he pursued his path.

It was at the pretty picture he thus presented, as, having left the market-place, he came upon
the higher streets of the town, that a lady, looking from her window, made exclaim. The kind
face, the pleasant voice, attracted him; in a moment after, while she was yet thinking of it,
the door was pushed partly open, a dark boy, smiling, appeared, followed by the unslung tray,
and a voice like a flute said,--

"Sono io,--it is I. Will the lady buy?"

And then the image-vender showed his wares.

The lady chaffered with him a moment, and at its close he was evidently paying no attention
to what she said, but was listening to a voice from the adjoining room, the clear voice of
a girl singing her Italian exercises.

His face was in a glow, he bent to catch the words with signalling finger and glittering eyes;
it was plainly neither the deftly sweet accompaniment nor the melody that charmed him, but
the language: the language was his own.

With the cadence of the measure the sound was broken capriciously, the book had been thrown
down, and the singer herself stood balancing in the doorway between the rooms, a hand on either
side,--still lightly trilling her scales, smiling, beaming, blue-eyed, rosy. The sunbeam that
entered behind the shade swinging in the wind fell upon the beautiful masses of her light-brown
hair, and illumined all the shifting color that played with such delicate suffusion upon her
cheek and chin; her face was a deep, innocent smile of joy; she would have been dazzling but
for the blushes that seemed to go and come with her breath and make her human; and so much
did she embody one's ideal of the first woman that no one wondered when all called her Eve,
although her name was Rosamond, and she was the Rose of the World.

Directly Eve saw the boy kneeling there over his tray, the cast suspended in his hand, as he
leaned intently forward with the rich carmine deepening the golden tint of his brow and with
that yellow fire in his wine-dark eyes, she ceased singing, and, not hesitating to mimic the
well-known call, cried,--

"Images?"

Then Luigi remembered where he was, and answered the question asked five minutes since.

"Signora, seven shillings."

"That is reasonable, now," said the lady. "I will have it for that sum. Do you cast these things
yourself?"

"My master and I."

"Have you been long here?"

"Alas! much, much time," said he, with melancholy earnestness.

"And from what part of Italy did you come?" she kindly asked.

"Vengo da Roma" replied the boy, drawing himself up proudly.

"The Roman peasant is a prince, mamma," said Eve quickly, in an undertone.

Luigi glanced up instantly and smiled, and offered to her a little plaster cherub, silver-gilt,
just spreading wings for flight.

"It is for her," said he, with an appealing look at the mother. "For her,--la principessina.
I myself made it."

No one perceived his adroit under-meaning; but Eva bethought herself of her school-phrases,
and venturously selected one.

"È grazioso!" said she.

Luigi's face kindled anew; it seemed as if the sound of his native tongue were like some magic
wand that called the blind blood to his cheek or drove it into the pools of his heart; the
smile broke all over his face as light dances on burnished gold; he turned to her boldly with
outstretched hands, like some one asking an alms.

"Give to me a song," he said.

"Volontieri" quoth Eve, in hesitating accent, and flitted back to her piano. Without a thought,
he followed.

It was a little song of flowers and sunshine that Eve began to carol over the carolling keys;
the words fell into the sweetness of the air, that seemed laden with the morning murmur of
bees and blossoms; it was but a verse or two, with a refrain that went repeating all the honeyed
burden, till Luigi's face fairly burned with pleasure, where he stood at timid distance in
the doorway.

"Ciò mi fa bene! That does me good!" cried he, as she rose. "Ah, Signorina, I am happy here!"

Then he turned and found the elder lady counting out his money. He received the seven shillings
quietly, as his due; but when she would have paid him for the cherub, he pushed the silver
swiftly back.

"It is a gift!" said he, with spirit.

"No, no," said Eve. "I should like it, but I must pay for it. You will be so kind as to take
the price?" she asked, her hand extended, and a winning grace irradiating all her changing
rosy countenance.

A shadow fell over the boy's face, like that of a cloud skimming down a sunny landscape.

"A Lei non posso dar un rifiuto," said he, meeting her shining eyes; and he gravely gathered
the money and slung his tray.

As he raised it, Eve laid along its side a branch of unsullied day-lilies that had been filling
the room with their heavy fragrance. The image-boy interested her; he was a visible creature
of those foreign fairy-shores of which she had dreamed; that she did anything but show kindness
to a vagrant whom she would not see again never crossed her mind; perhaps, too, she liked that
Italy, in his person, should admire her,--that was pardonable. But, at the action, the shadow
swept away from the boy's face again, all his lights and darks came flashing out, eyes and
teeth and color sparkling in his smile, like sunshine after rain; he made his low obeisance,
poised the tray upon his head, and, with a wave of his hand, went out.

"A rivederla!" he called back to her from the door, and was gone.

And soon far down the street they heard his musical cry again; and perhaps the little distant
dove, who had forsaken him on entrance, also caught the sound, and was reminded by it, as he
pecked along the dusty thoroughfare, of some remote and pleasant memory of morning and the
market-place.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a week afterward, that, as Eve and her mother loitered over luncheon, the door again
softly opened, and they saw Luigi standing erect on the threshold, and holding with both hands
above the brightly bronzed face a tall, slender, white jar of ancient and exquisite shape,
carefully painted, and having a glass suspended within, lest any water it might receive should
penetrate the porous plaster.

He did not look at Eve, but marched to her mother, and deposited it upon the floor at her feet.

"For the Signora's lilies," said he.

And remembering the silver pieces of the week before, and fearing lest she should really grieve
him, the Signora perforce accepted it with admiring words; while Eve ran to fill it from the
garden, into which abode of bliss--as gardens always are--the long casement of the music-room
opened. Luigi hesitated, his hand upon the door, wistful wishes in his face; then he cast a
smiling, deprecating glance at the mother, lightly crossed the floor, was over the sill, and
stood beside Eve in the walk.

To right and left the long, straight stems rose in rank, and bore their floral crown of listening
lilies, calm, majestic, pure, and only stirring now and then when the wind shook a waft of
gold-dust down the shining leaf, or rifled the inmost heart of its delicious wealth of odor;
on either side of the path the snowy bloom lay like a fallen cloud.

"It is a company of angels," said Luigi, brokenly, "a cloud of seraphs with their gold harps!
If they should sing," hazarded he, "it would be the song the Signorina gave me,--alas, it is
long since!"

"It is a week," said she, laughing and lingering.

"Eve!" came a warning voice.

"That is the Signorina's name?" questioned Luigi, as he bent to help her cut the stems.

"Eve,--yes, they call me so."

"Certainly I had not thought it," he repeated to himself.

"Why, what did you suppose it was?" she heedlessly asked.

"Luigia!" said he. And his low, rapt tone was indescribably simple, sweet, and intense.

Eve did not know what the boy himself was called.

"I wish it were," said she. "That is a pleasant sound."

And rising with her armful, she went in and heaped the jar with honor, while Luigi, pleased
and proud, lifted it to the level of the black-walnut bracket.

"Signora, behold what is beautiful!" said he, stepping back.

The Signora looked at the lilies, but Luigi looked at Eve.

They had lunched. Eve went into the other room to her exercises. Her mother poured out a glass
of wine for the unbidden guest. He repulsed it with an angry eye and a disdainful gesture.
But then there rose the sound of Eve's voice just beyond;--while he stayed, he could listen.
With sudden change from frown to smile, he stepped forward and took the plate.

"To the Signora's health," said he, with a courtesy that sat well on the supple shape and the
dark beauty of the boy, whose homely garb, whose poverty, and whose profession seemed only
the disguise of some young prince,--and sipped the wine, and broke the fine, white bread, while
his cheek was scarlet with delight at recurrence of the familiar sounds, even though in such
simple phrase.

"That is a proud boy," said Eve's mother, when he had gone, and she paused a moment to see
how Eve went on. "He urges no one."

"Italy is full of its troubles, mia madre. He is the exile of a noble family,--no other beggar
would be so haughty," looked up and answered Eve, laughing between her bars. "Mamma, what different
beings different meridians make!" she exclaimed, dropping her music. "Is he so sweet and lofty
and fiery because he has lived in the shadow of old temples,--because, if he stumbled over
a pebble in the street, it was the marble fragment of a goddess,--because the clay of which
he is made has so many times been moulded into heroes?"

"Are there no further fancies with which you can invest an image-vender?"

"But he is unique. Did you ever see any one like him? Daily beauty has made him beautiful.
Is that what the Doctor means, when he says a Corinthian pillar in the market-place would educate
a generation better than a pulpit would?"

"They have both in Rome," said her mother, with meaning.

"And, in spite of them, perhaps our hero cannot spell! Yet he is more accomplished than we,
mamma. He speaks Italian beautifully," said she, with espièglerie.

"But hardly Tuscan."

"Silver speech for all that. I have reached the end of my idioms, though. I always said school
was good for something, if one could only find it out," she archly cried, her little fingers
running in arpeggios up the keys. "To think he understood them so! Then Dante's women would."

"Heaven forbid!"

"How his face glows at them,--like a light behind a mask! It is quite the opera, when he comes.
I will sing to him an aria, and then it will make a scene."

"You are a madcap. What do you want a scene for?"

"Spice. When my voice fills his handsome eyes with tears, he makes me an artist; when he turns
upon you in that sudden, ardent air, he brings a sting of foreign fire into this quiet summer
noon."

"Amuse yourself sparingly with other people's emotions, Eve."

"Especially when they are suave as olive-oil, pungent as cherry-cordial, and ready to blaze
with a spark, you know. Ah, it is all as interesting to me as when the little sweep last year
looked out from the chimney-top and made the whole sky brim over with his wild music."

Here a clock chimed silverly from below.

"There is the half-hour striking, and you have lost all this time," said the caressing mother,
her fingers lost in the bright locks she lifted.

"Never mind, mother mine," said she, turning in elfish mood to brush her lips across the frustrated
fingers. "Art is long, if time is fleeting," she sang to the measure of her Non più mesta,
beginning again to shower its diamonds about till all the air seemed bright with her young
and sparkling voice.

       *       *       *       *       *

Summer days are never too long for the fortunes of health and happiness, and at the sunset
following this same morning Eve leaned from the casement, watching the retiring rays as if
she fain would pursue. A tender after-glow impurpled all the heaven like a remembered passion,
and bathed field and fallow in its bloom. It gave to her a kind of aureole, as if her beauty
shed a lustre round her. The window where she leaned was separated from the street only by
a narrow inclosure, where grew a single sumach, whose stem went straight and bare to the eaves,
and there branched out, like the picture of a palm-tree, in tossing plumes. Blossoming honeysuckles
wreathed this stem and sweetened every breath.

A figure came sauntering down the street, an upright and pliant form, laden with green boughs.
It was Luigi, with whom it had been a holiday, and who, roaming in the woods, had come across
a wild stock on whose rude flavor the kindly freak of some wayfarer had grafted that of pulpy
wax-heart cherries, tart ruddiness and sugared snow. Pausing before Eve, he gazed at her lingeringly,
then sprang half-way up the adjacent door-steps, and proffered her his fragrant freight. Eve
deliberated for a moment, but the fruit was tempting, the act would be kind. As he stood there,
he wore a certain humility, and yet a certain assurance,--the lover's complicate timidity,
that seems to say he will defend her against all the world, for there is nothing in the world
he fears except herself. Eve bent and broke a little spray of the nearest branch.

"They are all for you," pleaded he,--"all."

"I have enough," said Eve.

"I brought them for the Signorina from the wood. Behold! the tints are hers. The cream upon
Madonna's shoulder,--here; the soft red flame upon her cheek is there."

"Ah! I thank you," said Eve. "Good night."

"Scusi,--I beg that the Signorina take them."

"No, no," answered Eve, obliged to speak, and, hanging on her foot, half turned away, a moment
before flight; "why should I rob you so?"

"It is not take,--but give! Why? Only that to me you are so kind. O quanta bontà! You speak
the speech I love. You sing its songs. I was a wanderer. Io era solo. Alone and sad. But since
I heard your voice, I am at home again, and life is sweet!"

And suddenly and dexterously he flung the boughs past her in at the open window, laughed at
his success till the teeth flashed again in his dusky face, kissed both his hands and ran down
the steps, singing in a ringing recitative something where the bella bellas echoed and reëchoed
each other through the evening as far as they could be heard at all.

Eve smiled to herself, gathered up the scattered boughs, and went into the lighted room behind,
where her gay companions clustered, appearing at the door thus laden, and with a blush upon
her brow.

"Mamma," said she, her lovely head bent on one side and ringed with gloss beneath the burner,
"the fruit is fresh, whether you call it cherry or ciriegia." And straightway planting herself
at her mother's feet, taper fingers twinkled among shadowy leaves till the boughs were bare
of their juicy burden, and they all made merry together upon the spoils of Luigi.

       *       *       *       *       *

July was following June in sunshine down the slope of the year, and Eve, pursuing her pleasures,
might almost have forgotten that an image-boy existed, had Luigi allowed her to forget. But
he was omnipresent as a gnat.

As she walked from church on the next Sunday afternoon alone, gazing at her shadow by the way,
she started to see another shadow fall beside it. In spite of his festal midsummer attire of
white linen, a sidelong glance assured her that it was Luigi; yet she did not raise her eyes.
He continued by her, in silence, several steps.

"Signorina Eve," said he then, "I went that I might worship with you."

But Eve had no reply.

"My prayer mounted with yours,--may he forgive, il padre mio," said Luigi. "Ebbene! It is not
lovely there. It is cold. Your heaven would be a dreary place, perhaps. Come rather to mine!"
For they approached a little chapel, the crystallization in stone of a devout fancy, and through
the open doors rolling organ, purple incense, and softened light invited entrance. "It is the
holy vespers," said the boy. "Ciascuno alia sua volta. The Signorina enters,--forse?"

"Not to-day," answered Eve, gently.

"Kneel we not," then faltered he, "before one shrine,--although," and he grew angry with his
hesitation, "at different gates?"

"Ah, certainly," said Eve. "But now I must go home."

"The Signorina refuses to come with me, then!" he exclaimed, springing forward so that he opposed
her progress. "Her foot is too holy! she herself has said it. Her eyes are too lofty,--gli
occhi azzurri!! It is true; stood she there, who would look at the blessed saints? Ah! you
have a fair face, but it is--traditrice!"

And as he confronted her, with his clenched hands slightly raised and advanced from his side,
the lithe figure drawn back, the swarthy cheek, the eager eyes, aglow, and made more vivid
by his spotless attire, Eve bethought herself that a scene in public had fewer charms than
one in private, and, casting about for escape, quietly stepped across the street. For an instant
Luigi gazed after her like one thunderstruck; then he dashed into the vestibule and was lost
in its shadows.

It was at midnight that Eve's mother, rising to close an open window, caught sight of an outline
in the obscurity, and discerned Luigi leaning on the railing below, with one arm supporting
his upturned face. "Ah, the sad day! the sad day!" he was sighing in his native speech. "Pardon,
pardon, Signorina! Alas! I was beside myself!"

And on the next twilight Eve stood at the gate, her arms and hands full of a flush of rosy
wild azaleas from the swamps, bounty that had been silently laid upon her by a fast and fleeting
shadow. She doubted for a moment, then dropped them where she stood. But a tint as deep as
theirs was broken by the arch and dimpling smile that flickered round her mouth as she went
in, laughing because this devotion was so strange, and blushing because it was so genuine.
"Mamma," said she, her eyes cast down, her head askant like a shy bird's, "I am afraid I have
a lover!" And then to think of it the child grew sad. It pained her to grieve him with the
beautiful pink blossoms she had dropped, and which she knew he would return to find; but better
trivial sting than lasting ache, she had heard. And perhaps in his tropical nature the passion
would be brief as the pain.

       *       *       *       *       *

The broad, bright river flowing past the town by summer noon or night was never left unflecked
with sails. And of all who loved its swinging bridge, its stately shores, its breezy expanses,
none sought them more frequently than Eve.

She had gone out one day with her companions--who, beside her, seemed like the moss that clusters
on a rose-bud--to watch the shoal in the weir as the treacherous ebb forsook it. It was a favorite
diversion of Eve's,--for she always felt as if she were Scheherazade looking into the pools
of her fancy, and viewing the submerged city with its princes and its populace transformed
to fish, when, having entered the heart-shaped inclosure, she leaned over the boat-side and
noted the twin tides of life whose facile and luminous career followed all the outline of the
weir. For the mackerel, swimming in at the two eddies of the mouth, struck straight across
in transverse courses till they met the barrier on either side, and then each slowly felt the
way along to the end of the lobe, where, instead of escaping, they struck freely across again,
and thus pursued their round in everlasting interchase of lustre,--through the darkly transparent
surface each current glancing on its swift and silent way, an arrow of emerald and silver.
Curving, racing, rippling with tints, they circled, till, warned by some subtile instinct that
the river was betraying them, fresh fear swept faster and faster their lines of light, the
rich dyes deepened in the splendid scales, and some huddled into herds, and some, more frantic
than the rest, leaped from the water in shining streaks, and darted away like stars into outer
safety. There the sail-boat already had preceded them, and the master of the weir, having taken
its place, from the dip-net was loading his dory with massive fare of frosted silver and fusing
jewel. As Eve and her friends lingered yet a moment there, watching the picturesque figure
splashing barelegged in the shallow water, one of the droll little craft known as Joppa-chaises
came up beside them, a fulvous face appeared at its helm, a tawny hand was extended, and they
left Luigi bargaining for fish, and stringing these simulations of massed turquoise and scale-ruby
at a penny apiece.

What little wind there was that day blew from the southeast, and sheathed the brightness of
the noonday sky in a soft veil of haze; and having made this pretty sight their own, Eve's
party spread their sail for tacking to and fro, meaning to reach the sea. This, for some hidden
reason, the wind refused to let them do, and when it found them obstinate brought an accomplice
upon the scene, and they suddenly surprised themselves rocking this side the bar, and caught
in the vapory fringes of a dark sea-turn, that, creeping round about, had soon so wrapped and
folded them that they could scarcely see the pennon drooping at their mast-head. This done,
the wind fell altogether, and they lay there a part of the great bank of mist that all day
brooded above the bar. Everywhere around them the gray cloud hung and curled and curdled; it
was impossible to see an oar's-length on either side; their very faces were unfamiliar, and
seemed to be looking like the faces of spirits from a different atmosphere; their little boat
was the whole world, and beyond it was only void. Now and then an idle puff parted the bank
to right and left, their sail flapped impatiently, and in the sudden space they saw the barge
that dashed along with the great white seine-boat heaped high with nets towering in its midst,
the oars of the six red-shirted rowers flashing in the sun as it cut the channel and rushed
by to join the fishing-fleet outside,--or they caught a glimpse of some little gunning-float,
covered with wisps of hay and carrying its single occupant couched perdu along its length,--or,
while they lunched and trifled and jested, Eve with her crumbs tolled about them the dwellers
in the depths, and in the falling flake of sunshine laughed to see a stately aldermanic flounder,
that came paddling after a chicken-bone, put to rout by a satanic sculpin, whereat an eel swiftly
snaked the prize away, and the frost-fish, collecting at a chance of civil war, mingled in
the mêlée, tooth and nail, or rather fin and tail. Then the vapors would darken round them
again, till, with the stray rays caught and refracted in their fleece, it seemed like living
in an opal full of cloudy color and fire. Far off they heard the great ground-swell of the
surf upon the beach, or there came the dull report of the sportsmen in the marsh, or they exchanged
first a laugh and then a yawn with some other unseen party becalmed in the fog and drifting
with the currents; and all day long, on this side and on that, the cloud rang with near and
distant music, as if Ariel and his sprites had lost their way in it, the tinkling of a mandolin,
the singing of a clear, rich voice that had the tenor's golden strain, and yet, in floating
through the mist, was sweet and sighing as a flute. The melody and the undistinguished words
it bore upon its wings, delicious tune and passionate meaning, seemed the speech of another
planet, an orb of song, the delicate sound lost when at sunset the threaded mist broke up and
streamed away in fire, but coming again, as if they were haunted by the viewless voices of
the air, when star-beam and haze tangled together at last in the dusk of summer night and found
them still rocking on the swell, vainly whistling for the wind, and slowly tiding up with the
flood.

It was one of those days so long in the experience, but so charming to remember. Eve, with
her wilful, fearless ways, her quips and joyousness, had been the life and the delight of it;
now, chilled and weary, she hailed the sight of the lamps that seemed to be hung out along
the shore to light them home: for their boatmen were inexperienced, and, though wind failed
them, had not dared before to lift the oars, ignorant as they were of their precise whereabouts,
and even now made no progress like that of the unseen voice still hovering around them. There
had been a season of low tides, and when, to save the weary work of rowing a heavy sail-boat
farther, it was decided to make the shore, they were hindered by a length of shallow water
and weedy flat, through which the ladies of the party must consent to be carried. A late weird
moon was rising down behind the light-houses, all red and angry in the mist still brooding
over the horizon, the boat lay in the deep shade it cast, the river beyond was breaking into
light, reach after reach, like a blossom into bloom. Two of her friends had already been taken
to the bank; Eve stood in the bow, awaiting her bearers, and watching the distant bays of the
stream, each one of which seemed just on the verge of opening into an impossible midnight glory.
She heard the plash of feet in the water, but did not heed it other than to fold her cloak
more conveniently about her, her eye caught the contour of a vague approaching form, and then
shadowy arms were reaching up to encircle her. She was bending, and just yielding herself to
the clasp, when the hearty voice of her bearers sounded at hand, bidding her be of good cheer;
the adumbration shrank back into the gloom, and, before she recovered from her start, firm
arms had borne her to firm land.

"Well, Eve," said one of her awaiting friends, "is the earth going up and down with you? As
for me, my head swims like a buoy. I feel as if I had waltzed all day."

"Nympholeptic, then," said Eve,--

          "'When you do dance, I wish you
    A wave of the sea, that you might ever do
    Nothing but that.'"

"I thought they threw out the anchor down there," said the other. "Are they tying her up for
the night, too? How long it takes them! Oh, for an inquisition and a rack,--I am so cramped!
Eve, here, is extinguished. What a day it has been!"

    "'Oh, sweet the flight, at dead of night,
    When up the immeasurable height
    The thin cloud wanders with the breeze
    That shakes the splendor from the star,
    That stoops and crisps the darkling seas,
    And drives the daring keel afar
    Where loneliness and silence are!
    To cleave the crested wave, and mark
    Drowned in its depth the shattered spark,
    On airy swells to soar, and rise
    Where nothing but the foam-bell flies,
    O'er freest tracts of wild delight,
    Oh, sweet the flight at dead of night!'"

sang Eve. "Ah, there they are! I am so tired that I could fall asleep here, if there were but
a reed to lean against!"

"Appoggiatevi a me" sighed a murmurous voice in her ear, with musical monotone.

A little shiver ran over Eve, but no soul saw it; in an instant she knew the sound that had
all day haunted the sea-turn; yet she could neither smile nor be angry at Luigi's simplicity;
with a peremptory motion of her hand, she only waved him away, and fortified herself among
her companions, who, thoroughly awakened, made the night ring as they wended along. They rallied
Eve, then grew vexed that she refused the sport, and kept silence awhile, only to break it
with gayer laughter, elate with life while half the world was stretched in white repose. At
length they paused to rest in the lee of a cottage that seemed more like a hulk drawn up on
shore than any house, but matted from ground to chimney in a smother of woodbine.

"A picturesque place," said one of the chevaliers.

"And a picturesque body lives in it," replied another. "The beauty of the fisher-maidens. I
have seen her out upon the flats at low tide digging for clams, barefooted, the short petticoats
fluttering, a handkerchief across her ears,--and outline could do no more."

"I have seen her, too," said Eve. "Though she lives in the belt of sunburn, she is white as
snow,--milk-white, with hazel eyes. She has hair like Sordello's Elys. She is a girl that dreams.
Let us serenade her till she sees visions."

And Eve's voice went warbling lightly up, till the others joined, as if the oriole in his hanging
nest not far away had stirred to sing out the seasons of the dark.

    "The hours that bear thy beauty prize
      Star after star sinks numbering,--
    The laden wind at thy lattice sighs
      To find thee slumbering, slumbering!

    "Ah, wantonly why waste these hours
      That love would fain be borrowing?
    Soon youth and joy must fall like flowers,
      And leave thee sorrowing, sorrowing!

    "Ye fleeting hours, ye sacred skies,
      Sweet airs around her hovering,
    Oh, open me the envied eyes
      Your spells are covering, covering!

    "Or only, while the dew's soft showers
      Shake slowly into glistening,
    Let her, O magic midnight hours,
      In dreams be listening, listening!"

And their voices blended so together as they sang, and the plunge of the sea came on the east-wind
in such chiming chord, that they never heeded the old mandolin whose strings in humble remoteness
Luigi struck to their tune. But mingling the sound of the sea and the sound of the strings
in her memory, it seemed to Eve that Luigi was fast becoming the undertone of her life.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Luigi was not to be abashed. Faint heart never won fair lady, he said to himself, in some
answering apophthegm. And thereat he summoned his reserves.

At noon of the next day, Eve, having run down-stairs into the room where her mother sat, stood
before her during the inspection of the attire she had proposed as possible for an approaching
masquerade some weeks hence. She wore a white robe of classic make, and over its trailing folds
her bright hair, all unbound from the heavy braids, streamed in a thousand ripples of scattered
lustre, the brown breaking into gold, the gloss lurking in tremulous jacinth shadows, tresses
like a cascade of ravelled light falling to her feet, shrouding her in a long and luminous
veil,--such "sweet shaken hair" as was never seen since Spenser and Ariosto put their heads
together.

"Come sta?" said some one in the doorway. And there stood Luigi, having deposited his tray
of images on the steps, holding up a long string of birds'-eggs blown, tiny varicolored globes
plundered from the thrushes, bobolinks, blue-jays, and cedar-birds, and trembling upon the
thread as if their concrete melody quivered to open into tune.

For an indignant instant Eve felt her seclusion unwarrantably violated; she turned upon the
invader with her blushes, and the venturesome Luigi blenched before the gaze. Still, though
he retreated, a part of him remained: a slender brown hand, that stretched back in relief against
the white door-post, yet suspended the pretty rosary; and there it caught Eve's eye.

Now it was Euterpe that Eve was to represent at the masquerade; and what ornament so fit and
fanciful as this amulet of spring-time, whose charm commanded all that hour of freshness, fragrance,
and dew, when the burdened heart of the dawn bubbles over with music? Yet the enticement was
brief. Eve looked and longed, and then hurriedly turned her back upon the tempting treasure,
her two hands thrusting it off. "Behind me, Satan!" cried she, tossing a laugh at her mother;
and Paula, the stately servant who had followed her down, signified to Luigi that the door
awaited his movements.

Then the hand quietly withdrew, and his footstep was heard upon the threshold. It was arrested
by a sound: Eve stood in the doorway, gathering her locks in one hand, and blushing and smiling
upon him like sunshine, whether she would or no.

"You are very kind," said she, hesitating, and fluttering out the broad, snowy love-ribbon
that was to ornament her lute, "but, if you please,--indeed"--

"Indeed, the Signorina cares not for such bawbles," said Luigi, sadly, covering her with his
gaze. Then he turned, mounted his tray again, and went slowly down the street, forgetting to
cry his wares.

Perhaps, after this, Luigi felt that his situation was desperate; perhaps despair made him
bold,--for, having already spoiled Eve's pleasure for the day, that same evening found him
in her mother's garden, half hidden in the grape-vines, and watching the movements in the lighted
room opposite, through the long window, whose curtain was seldom dropped.

It was a gay old town in those days, kind to its lads and lasses, and if the streets were grass-grown,
it seemed only that so they might give softer footing to the young feet that trod them. Almost
every night there was a festival at one house or another, and this evening the rendezvous was
with Eve. The guests gathered and dallied, the dancers floated round the room, the lovers uttered
their weighty trifles in such seclusion or shadow as they could secure, the voices melted in
happy unison. Eve, with snowy shoulders and faultless arms escaping from the ruffle of her
rosy gauzes, where skirt over skirt, like clinging petals, made her seem the dryad of a wild
rose-tree just rising and looking from her blushing cup, Eve flitted to and fro among them,
and, all the time, Luigi's gaze brooded over the scene. Sometimes her shadow fell in the lighted
space of turf, and then Luigi went and laid his cheek upon it; it passed, and he returned once
more to his hiding-place, and the dark, motionless countenance, with its wandering, glittering
eyes, appeared to hang upon the dense leafage that sheltered all the rest of him like a vizard
in whose cavities glowworms had gathered. And more than once, in passing, Eve delayed a moment,
and almost caught that gaze; she was sensible of his presence there, felt it, as she might
have felt an apparition, as if the eyes were those of a basilisk and she were fascinated to
look and look again, till filled with a strange fear and unrest. It grew late; by-and-by, before
they separated, Eve sang. It would have been impossible for her to say why she chose a luscious
little Italian air, one that many a time at home, perhaps, Luigi had heard some midnight lover
sing. Through it, as he listened now, he could fancy the fountain's fall, the rustle of the
bough, the half-checked gurgle of the nightingale, upon the scented waft almost the slow down-floating
of the scattered corolla of the full-blown flower. The tears sparkled over his face, first
of delight, and then of anger. Something was wanting in the song,--he missed the passionate
utterance of the lover standing by the gate and pouring his soul in his singing.

Suddenly the room was startled by the ring of a voice from the garden, a voice that outbroke
sweet and strong, that snatched the measure from Eve's lips, flung a fervor into its flow,
a depth into its burden, and carried it on with impetuous fire, lingering with tenderness here,
swift with ardor there, till all hearts bounded in quicker palpitation when the air again was
still. For deep feeling has a potency of its own, and all that careless group felt as if some
deific cloud had passed by.

As for Eve, what coquetry there was in her nature was but the innocent coruscation of happy
spirits, the desire to see her power, the necessity of being dear to all she touched. Far from
pleasant was this vehemence of devotion; the approach of it oppressed her; she comprehended
Luigi as a creature of another species, another race, than herself; she shrank before him now
with a kind of horror. That night in a nervous excitation she did not close an eye, and in
the morning she was wan as a flower after rain.

This state of things found at least one observer, a personage of no less authority in household
matters than Paula, the tall and stately woman of Nubian lineage who had been the nurse of
Eve, and who every morning now stood behind her chair at breakfast, familiarly joining in and
gathering what she chose of the conversation. Erect as a palm-tree, slender, queenly, with
her thin and clearly cut features, and her head like that of some Circassian carved in black
marble, she had a kinship of picturesqueness with Luigi, and could meet him more nearly on
his own ground than another, for her voice was as sweet as his, and he was only less dark than
she. Breakfast over, she took her way into the garden, set open the gate, and busied herself
pinching the fresh shoots of the grape-vine, too luxuriant in leaves. She did not wait long
before Luigi came up the side-street, his tray upon his head, his gait less elastic than beseemed
the fresh, fragrant morning. Paula stepped forward and gave him pause, with a gesture.

"Sir!" said she, commandingly.

Luigi looked up at her inquiringly. Then a pleasant expectation overshot his gloomy face; he
smiled, and his teeth glittered, and his eyes. Instantly he unslung his tray and set it upon
the level gate-post.

"Sir," said Paula, "do you come here often?"

"Tutti i giorni," answered Luigi, scarcely considering her worth wasting his sparse and precious
English upon.

"You come here often," said Paula. "Will you come here no more?"

Luigi opened his eyes in amaze.

"You will come here no more," said Paula.

"Chi lo,--who wishes it?" stammered Luigi.

"My mistress," answered Paula, proudly, as if to be her servant were more than enough distinction,
and to mention her name were sovereign.

"Who commands?" he demanded, imperatively.

"Still my mistress."

"She said--Tell me that!"

"She said, 'Paula, if the boy disturbs us further, we must take measures.'"

"The Signorina?"

"Her mother."

"Not the Signorina, then!" And Luigi's gloomy face grew radiant.

"She and her mother are one," replied Paula.

Luigi was silent for a moment. One could see the shadows falling over him. Then he said, softly,--

"My Paula, you will befriend me?"

Paula bridled at the address; arrogant in family-place, she would have assured him plainly
that she was none of his, to begin with, had he been an atom less disconsolate.

"Never more than now!" said she, loftily.

Luigi did not understand her; her tone was kind, but there was a "never" in her words.

"I should be the most a friend," said Paula, unbending, "in urging you to forget us."

"Ah, never!"

"Let me say. Can you read?"

"Some things," replied Luigi quickly, his brow brightening.

"Can you write?"

"It may be. Alas! I have not tried."

"You see."

There was no appeal from Paula's dictatorial demeanor.

"Dio! I am unfit! Ah, Jesu, I am unfit! But if she cared not--if I learned"--and he paused,
striving now for the purest, most intelligible speech, while his face beamed with his smiling hope.

"Listen," interposed Paula, with the dignity of the headsman. "You have no truer friend than
me at this moment, as some day you will discover. Come, now, will you do me a favor?"

"Di tutto cuore!"

"Then leave us to ourselves."

"Not possible!" cried Luigi, stung with disappointment.

"What would you do, then? Would you wear her life out? Would you keep her in a terror? She
has said to me that she must go away. It suffocates one to be pursued in this manner. You are
not pleasant to her. Hark. She dislikes you!" And Paula bent toward him with uplifted finger,
and, having delivered her stroke, after watching its effect a moment, reared herself and adjusted
her gay turban with internal satisfaction.

Luigi cast his eyes slowly about him; they fell on the smooth grass-plats rising with webs
of shaking sparkle, the opening flowers half-bowed beneath the weight of the shining spheres
they held, the brilliant garden bathed in dew, the waving boughs tossing off light spray on
every ravaging gust, the far fair sky bending over all. Then he hid his face against the great
gate-post, murmuring only in a dry and broken sob,--

"C' è sole?"

Paula herself was touched. She put her hand on his shoulder.

"It is a silly thing," said she. "Do not take it so to heart. Put it out of sight. There is
many a pretty tambourine-tosser to smile upon you, I'll warrant!"

But Luigi vouchsafed no response.

"Come," said she, "pluck up your courage. You will soon be better of it."

"Non sarò meglio!" answered Luigi. "I shall never be better."

He lifted his head and looked at her where she stood in the light, black, but comely, transfixing
her on the burning glances of his bold eyes. "In your need," said he, "may you find just such
friend as I have found!" The words were of his native language, but the malediction was universal.
Paula half shivered, and fingered the amulet that her princely Nubian ancestor had fingered
before her, while he spoke. Then he bowed his head to its burden, fastened the straps, and
went bent and stooping upon his way, repeating sadly to himself, "And does the sun shine?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A week passed. Part of another. Eve saw no more of Luigi, but was yet all the time uncomfortably
conscious of his espionage. He was hardly a living being to her, but, as soon as night fell,
the soft starry nights now in which there was no moon, she felt him like a darker film of spirit
haunting the shadow. In the daytime, sunshine reassured her, and she remained almost at peace.

She was sitting one warm afternoon at the open window up-stairs, looking over a box of airy
trifles, flowers and bows and laces, searching for a parcel of sheer white love-ribbon, a slip
of woven hoarfrost that was not to be found. There was none like it to be procured; this was
the night of the little masquerade; it was indispensable; and immediately she proceeded to
raise the house. In answer to her descriptive inquiry, Paula, who every noon nestled as near
the sun as possible, responded in a high key from the attic a descriptive negative; neither
had her mother, waking from a siesta in the garden, seen any white gauze folderols. The three
voices made the air well acquainted with the affair.

However, Eve was not to be baffled; she remembered distinctly having had the love-ribbon in
her hands on the day she first proposed the dress; it must be found, and she sat down again
at the open casement, intrenched behind twenty boxes of like treasure, in any one of which
the thing might have hidden itself away, while her mother came up and established herself with
a fan at the other window, and Paula, descending from her perch, rummaged the neighboring dressing-room.

On the opposite side of the street stretched a long strip of shaven turf, known as the Parade,
yet seldom used for anything but summer-evening strolls, and below its velvet terraces, in
a green dimple, lay a pool, borrowing all manner of umberous stains from the shore, and yet
in its very heart contriving to reflect a part of heaven. Languishing elm-trees lined its edge,
and beneath the boughs, whose heavily drooping masses seemed like the grapes of Eshcol, rude
benches offered rest to the weary.

On one of these benches now sat a person profoundly occupied in carving something into its
seat. If he could easily have heard the voices in the dwelling opposite, he had not once glanced
up. Now and then he paused and leaned his head upon the arm that lay along the rail, then again
he pursued his task. Once, when his progress, perhaps, had exceeded expectation, or the striking
of a clock beneath some distant spire announced no need of haste, he laid down his knife, left
his occupation, and came to lean against the low fence beneath Eve's window and gaze daringly
up. Eve did not see him. Her mother did, and held her breath lest Eve should turn that way,
and, having directed Eve's glance elsewhere, shook her fan at the bold boy. But there was no
insolence in Luigi's gaze. He seemed merely wishing that his work should be marked; and, having
attracted fit attention, he returned quietly to the bench and the carving once more.

At length the sun hung high over the west, preparing to fall into his hidden resting-place
that colored all the cloudless heaven with its mounting tinge. Luigi rose and inspected his
work. Then again he crossed the street and stood below Eve's window. It was a long time that
he leaned with his arms folded on the bar of the low paling. Perhaps he meant that she should
look at him. She had closed the last of her receptacles, and, dismissing the matter, for want
of better employment, her scissors were tinkering upon a tiny hand-glass with a setting thickly
crusted in crystals, a trifle that one clear day a sailor diving from her father's ship had
found upon the bottom of the sea,--a very mermaid's glass dropped in some shallow place for
Eve herself, a glass that had reflected the rushing of the storm, the sliding of the keel above,
the face of many a drowning mariner. Careless of all that, at the moment, she held it up now
to the light to see if further furbishing could brighten it, and as she did so was hastily
checked. She had caught sight of a dark face just framed and mirrored, the sad eyes raised
and resting on her own, luminous no more, but heavy, and longing, and dull with a weight of
woe. At the same moment, Paula, who had by no means abandoned the lost love-ribbon, cried from
within,--

"Well, Miss, the lutestring has been spirited away, and no less. I've searched the house through,
and nobody has it."

"Qualcheduno l' ha," breathed a sweet, melancholy tone from below; and they turned and saw
it in Luigi's hands, the frosty film of gossamer. He held it up a moment, pressed it to his
lips, folded it again into his breast; and if it was plain that somebody had it, it was plainer
still that somebody meant to keep it. And then, as if twin stars were bending over him out
of the bluest deeps of heaven, Luigi kept Eve's eyes awhile suspended on his despairing gaze,
and without other word or gesture turned and went away.

       *       *       *       *       *

Many days afterward, when it was certain that the little foreign image-vender had indeed departed,
Eve stole over to the bench beneath the lofty arches of the elm-tree, all checkered with flickering
sunlight, and endeavored to read the sentence carved thereon. It was at first undecipherable,
and then, the text conquered, not easy for her to comprehend. But when she had made it hers,
she rose, bathed with blushes, and stole away home again, feeling only as if Luigi had laid
a chain upon her heart.

Years have fled.

Rain and snow have not effaced its intaglio, nor summer's dust, nor winter's wind; and if you
ever pass it, you yet may read,--

    AMOR QUE A NULLO
        AMATO
    AMAR PERDONA.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMUNICATION.

Whether virtue can be taught is a question over which Plato lingers long. And it is a curious
illustration of the different eyes with which different men read, that some students of Plato
are confident he answers the question in the affirmative, while others are equally sure that
he gives it an unqualified negative. "Plato," says Schwegler, "holds fast to the opinion that
virtue is science, and therefore to be imparted by instruction." "We are told," says Burgess,
one of Bohn's translators, "that, as virtue is not a science, it cannot, like a science, be
made a subject of teaching." Professor Blackie, again, an open-minded and eloquent scholar,
cannot doubt that virtue may be verbally imparted, nor, therefore, that the great Athenian
thinker so believed and affirmed.

What is the voice of common sense and the teaching of history touching this matter? Can a liberal
and lofty nature be included in words, and so passed over to another? Elevation of character,
nobility of spirit, wealth of soul,--is any method known, or probably ever to be known, among
men, whereby these can be got into a text-book, and then out of the text-book into a bosom
wherein they had no dwelling before? Alas, is not the story of the world too full of cases
in which the combined eloquence of verbal instruction, vital influence, and lustrous example,
aided even by all the inspirations of the most majestic and moving presence, have failed utterly
to shape the character of disciples? Did Alcibiades profit greatly by the conversation of Socrates?
Was Judas extremely ennobled by the companionship of Jesus? Was it to any considerable purpose
that the pure-minded, earnest, affluent Cicero strewed the seeds of Stoic culture upon the
wayside nature of his son? Did Faustina learn much from Antoninus Pius, or Commodus from Marcus
Aurelius?

I think we must assume it as the judgment of common sense that there neither is nor is likely
to be any educational mortar wherein a fool may be so brayed that he shall come forth a wise
man. The broad, unequivocal sentence of history seems to be that whoever is not noble by nature
will hardly be rendered so by art. Education can do much; it can foster nobilities, it can
discourage vices; but literal conveyance of lofty qualities, can it effect that? Can it create
opulence of soul in a sterile nature? Can it cause a thin soil to do the work of a deep one?
We have seen harsh natures mellowed, violent natures chastened, rough ones refined; but who
has seen an essentially mean nature made large-hearted, self-forgetful, fertile of grandest
faiths and greatest deeds? Who has beheld a Thersites transformed into an Achilles? Who a Shylock,
Iago, or Regan changed into an Antonio, Othello, or Cordelia, or a Simon Magus into a Paul?
What virtue of nature is in a man culture may bring out; but to put nature into any man surpasses
her competence.

Nay, it would even seem that in some cases the finest openings and invitations for what is
best in man must operate inversely, and elicit only what is worst in him. Every profoundest
truth, when uttered with fresh power in history, polarizes men, accumulating atheism at one
pole, while collecting faith and resolve at the other. As the sun bleaches some surfaces into
whiteness, but tans and blackens others, so the sweet shining of Truth illumines some countenances
with belief, but some it darkens into a scowl of hate and denial. The American Revolution gave
us George Washington; but it gave us also Benedict Arnold. One and the same great spiritual
emergency in Europe produced Luther's Protestantism and Loyola's Jesuitism. Our national crisis
has converted General Butler; what has it done for Vallandigham?

It were easy to show that the deepest intelligence of the world concurs with common sense in
this judgment. Its declaration ever is, in effect, that, though Paul plant and Apollos water,
yet fruit can come only out of divine and infinite Nature,--only, that is, out of the native,
incommunicable resources of the soul. "No man can come to me," said Jesus, "except the Father
draw him." "To him that hath shall be given." The frequent formula, "He that hath ears to hear,
let him hear," is a confession that no power of speech, no wisdom of instruction, can command
results. The grandest teacher, like the humblest, can but utter his word, sure that the wealthy
and prepared spirits will receive it, and equally sure that shallow, sterile, and inane natures
will either not receive it at all, or do so to extremely little purpose.

And such, as I read, is the judgment of Plato; though, ever disposed to explore the remote
possibilities of education, he discusses the subject in a tentative spirit, as if vaguely hoping
that more might, through some discovery in method, be accomplished by means of doctrine. But
in the "Republic" his permanent persuasion is shown. He there bases his whole scheme of polity,
as Goethe in the second part of "Wilhelm Meister" bases his scheme of education, upon a primary
inspection of natures, in which it is assumed that culture must begin by humbly accepting the
work of Nature, forswearing all attempt to add one jot or tittle to the native virtue of any
human spirit.

It is always, however, less important for us to know what another thinks upon any high matter
than to know what is our own deepest and inevitable thought concerning it; for, as the man
himself thinketh, not as another thinketh for him, so is he: his own thoughts are forces and
engines in his nature; those of any other are at best but candidates for these profound effects.
I propose, therefore, that we throw open the whole question of man's benefit to man by means
of words. Let us inquire--if possible, with somewhat of courage and vigor--what are the limits
and what the laws of instructive communication.

And our first discovery will be that such communication has adamantine limitations. The off-hand
impression of most persons would probably be that we are able to make literal conveyance of
our thought. But, in truth, one could as soon convey the life out of his veins into the veins
of another as transfer from his own mind to that of another any belief, thought, or perception
whatsoever.

Words are simply the signs, they are not the vehicles, of thought. Like all signs, they convey
nothing, but only suggest. Like all signs, they are intelligible to none but the initiated.
One man, having a certain mental experience, hoists, as it were, a signal, like ships at sea,
whereby he would make suggestion of it to another; and if in the mental experience of that
other be somewhat akin to this, which, by virtue of that kindred, can interpret its symbol,
then only, and to the extent of such interpretation, does communication occur. But the mental
experience itself, the thought itself, does not pass; it only makes the sign.

If, for example, I utter the word God, it conveys nothing out of my mind into the mind of you,
the reader; it simply appeals to your conception of divinity. If I attempt to explain, then
every word of the explanation must be subject to the same conditions; not one syllable of it
can do more than merely appeal to somewhat already in your mind. For instance, suppose I say,
God is love; what then is done? The appeal is shifted to another sign; that is all. What my
own soul, fed from the vital resources and incited by the vital relationships of my life, has
learned of love, that my thought may connect with the word; but of all this nothing passes
when it is uttered; and the sound, arriving at your ear, can do no more than invite you to
summon and bring before the eye of your consciousness that which your own soul, out of its
divine depths and through the instruction of vital relationship, has learned and has privily
whispered to you of this sacred mystery, love. Just so much as each one, in the inviolable
solitudes of his own consciousness, has learned to connect with this, or with any great word,
just that, and never a grain more, it can summon. And if endeavor be made to explain any such
by others, the explanation can come no nearer; it can only send words to your ear, each of
which performs its utmost office by inviting you to call up and bring before your cognizance
this or that portion of your mental experience. But always what answers the call is your mental
experience, no less yours, no less wedded to your life, than the blood in your arteries; it
cannot be that of any other.

And the same is true, or nearly the same, respecting the most obvious outside matters. Suppose
one to make merely this statement, I see a house. Now, if the person addressed has ever had
experience of the act of vision, if he has ever seen anything, he will know what see means;
otherwise not. If, again, he has ever seen a house, he will know what house denotes; not otherwise.
Or suppose, that, not knowing, he ask what a house is, and that the first speaker attempt to
explain by telling him that it is such and such a structure, built of brick, wood, or stone;
then it is assumed that he has seen stone, wood, or brick, that he has seen the act of building,
or at least its result;--and in fine, the explanation, every syllable of it, can do no more
than appeal to perceptions of which the questioner is assumed to have had experience.

We do, indeed, gain an approximate knowledge of things we have never seen. For example, I have
an imperfect notion of a banian-tree, though I have never seen one; but it is only by having
seen other trees, and by having also had the perceptions to which appeal is made in describing
the peculiarities of the banian. So he who is born blind may learn so much concerning outward
objects as the senses of touch, hearing, smell, and taste can impart to him; and he may profit
by verbal information to such extent as these perceptions enable him. But the perception itself,
and so thought, faith, and in fine all mental experience whatsoever, whether of high order
or low, whether relating to objects within us or to objects without, take place only in the
privacy of our own minds, and are in their substance not to be transferred.

Observe with precision what is here said. The mental experience of each man, if it be of any
spiritual depth, has transacted itself in his nature in virtue, to a most important degree,
of spiritual relationship with other human beings. There never was an act of development in
any man's soul that did not imply a humanity, and involve the virtue of social affinity. I
should be dumb, but for the ears of others; I should be deaf, that is, my human ear would be
closed, but for human voices; and there is no particle of human energy, and no tint of human
coloring, for which we are not, in part, indebted to vital human fellowship. Nevertheless,
of this experience, though in the absence of social connection it could not have occurred,
not one jot nor tittle can be made over to another by means of words. It can hoist its verbal
signal, and the like experience in other souls may interpret the sign; it can do no more.

Men may, indeed, commune; that is, they may by verbal conference enter mutually into a sense
of an already existing unity of inward experience; and there are other and eminent uses of
words, of which more anon; but here let it be noted with sufficient emphasis that of minds
there can be no mixture, and that speech can make no substantive conveyance of any mental product
from one mind to another. Each soul must draw from its native fountains; though we must never
forget that without conversation and social relationship its divine thirst would not have been
excited.

Therefore, in the midst of all warmest and quickest verity of social nearness, there is a kind
of sacred and inviolable solitude of the soul. We speak across to each other, as out of different
planets in heaven; and the closest intimacy of souls is like that of double stars which revolve
about each other, not like that of two lumps of clay which are squeezed and confounded together.

So much, then, concerning the limits of verbal communication. Words, we say, are not vehicles.
No perception, no mental possession, passes from mind to mind. You can impart to another no
piece of knowledge whose main elements were not already in his mind, no thought which was not
substantially existent in his consciousness before your voice began to seek his ear. Instructors
may, indeed, put a pupil in the way to obtain fresh perceptions, and more rarely a wise man
may put an apt disciple in the way to obtain deeper insights; but, after all, the learner must
learn; the learner must for himself behold the fact, with the eyes of body or of soul; and
he must behold it as it is in itself, not merely as it is in words.

Hence the new scheme of school-education. Agassiz says, in substance,--"If you would teach
a boy geography, take him out on the hills, and make the earth herself his instructor. If you
would teach him respecting tigers or turtles, show him tiger or turtle. Take him to a Museum
of Natural History; let him always, so far as possible, learn about facts from the facts themselves."
Judicious and important advice. And the basis of it we find in what has been set forth above,
namely, that words convey no perception, whether of physical or of spiritual truth.

It follows, therefore, that only he whose soul is eloquent within him will gain much from any
eloquence of his fellow. Only he whose heart is a prophet will hear the prophet. A divine preparation
of the nature, divine activities of the soul, precede all high uses of communication. Though
Demosthenes or Phillips speak, it is the hearer's own spirit that convinces him. Conviction
cannot be forced upon one from without. Hence the well-known futility of belligerent controversy.
No possible logic will lead a man ahead of his own intelligence; neither will any take from
him the persuasions which correspond to his mental condition. A good logical pose may sometimes
serve to lower the crest of an obstreperous sophist, as boughs of one species of ash are said
to quell the rattlesnake; but with both these sinuous animals the effect is temporary, and
the quality of the creature remains unchanged.

Even though one be sincerely desirous of advancing his intelligence, it is seldom, as Mr. Emerson
has somewhere said, of much use for him to carry his questions to another. He of whom insight
is thus asked may be sage, eloquent, apt to teach; but it will commonly be found, nevertheless,
that his words, for some reason, do not seem to suit the case in hand: admirable words they
are, perhaps, for some cases closely analogous to this, it may be for all such cases, and it
is a thousand pities that the present one does not come within their scope; but this, as ill
luck will have it, is that other case which they do not fit.

And yet, despite these iron limits, communication is not only one of the especial delights,
but also one of the chief uses, of human life. As every spiritual activity implies fellowship,
so does almost every thought, almost every result of spiritual activity, imply some speech
of our fellows. Voices and books,--who would be himself without them? I do not believe myself
to have now in my mind one valuable thought which owes nothing to the written or spoken thought
of other men, living or dead.

How, then, is it that the speech of our fellows renders us aid? What are to us the uses of
the words of others?

And here be it first of all frankly acknowledged, that there is much speech of no remarkable
import, in itself considered, which yet serves good ends. There is much speech whose office
is simply to refresh the sense of fellowship. It will not make a good leading article; but
the leading article which subserves equal uses is not to be contemned. So much are men empowered
by each other, that any careless, kindly chat which gives them the sense of cordial nearness
gives also warmth and invigoration. Better than most ambitious conversation is the light, happy,
bubbling talk which means at bottom simply this:--"We are at home together; we believe in each
other." Words are good, if they only festoon love and trust. Words are good, if they merely
show us that worthy natures do not suspect us, do not lock their closets when we are in the
house, do not put their souls in dress-costume to meet us, but leave their thoughts and hearts
naked in our presence, and are not ashamed. Be it mine sometimes to sit with my friend when
our mere nearness and unity of spirit are felt by us both to be so utterly eloquent, that,
without silence, we forbear to set up any rivalry to them by grave and meditated speech,--observing,
it may be, a falling leaf toyed with by the wind, and speaking words that drop from the lips
like falling leaves, and float down a zephyr that knows not which way to blow. Some of the
sweetest and most fruitful hours of life are these in which we speak half-articulate nothings,
merely airing the sense of fellowship, and so replete with this wealth of vital intimacy that
we have room for nothing more.

But our aim is to regard communication as an instruction, and to consider the more explicit
and definite uses of words.

And of these the first, and one of the chief, is based upon the very limitations which have
been set forth,--upon the very fact that words are not vehicles. I have said that there is
a certain divine solitude of the soul; and of this solitude the uses are infinitely great.
The absolute soul of humanity, we hold, seeks to insphere itself in each person, though in
each giving itself a peculiar or individual representation; and only as this insphering takes
place are the ends of creation attained, only so is man made indeed a human life. Therefore
must we draw out of that, out of that alone; therefore truth is permitted to come to us only
out of these infinite depths, albeit incitement, invitation, and the ability to draw from these
native fountains may be due to social connection. Because our life is really enriched only
as the absolute soul gives itself to us, therefore will it suffer us no otherwise than by its
gift to supply our want. And as it cannot give itself to us save in response to a felt want,
a seeking, an inward demand, it belongs to the chief economies of our life to bring us to this
attitude of inward request, to this call and claim upon the resources of our intelligence.

Now words come to us as empty vessels, which we are to fill from within; and in making for
this purpose a requisition upon the perpetual contents of reason, conscience, and imagination,
we open a valve through which new spiritual powers enter, and add themselves to our being.
If the word God be sometimes spoken simply and spontaneously, a youth who hears it will be
sure upon some day, when the sense of the infinite and divine stirs vaguely within him, to
ask himself what this word means, to require his soul to tell him what is the verity corresponding
thereto; and precisely this requisition is what the soul desires, for only when sought may
its riches be found. The utilities of words in this kind are deserving of very grave estimation.
Words teach us much, but they teach less by what is in them than by what is not in them,--less
by what they give to us than by what they demand from us.

It is, therefore, one of the grand services of communication to bring us to the limits of communication,
making us feel, that, ere it can go farther, there must occur in us new stretches of thought,
new energies of hope, faith, and all noble imagining. It were well, therefore, that, among
other things, we should sometimes thank God for our ignorance and weakness,--thank Him for
what we do not understand and are not equal to; for with every fresh recognition of these,
with every fresh approach to the borders of our intelligence, we are prepared for new requisitions
upon the soul. As in a pump the air is exhausted in order that the water may rise, so a void
in our intelligence caused by its own energy precedes every enrichment. Hence he who will not
admit to his heart the sense of ignorance will always be a fool; he who is perpetually filled
with self-sufficiency will never be filled with much else. And from this point of view one
may discern the significance of that doctrine of humility which belongs equally to Socratic
thinking and Christian believing.

It follows, too, that we need not laboriously push and foist upon the young our faith and experience.
Aside from direct vital influence, which is a powerful propagandist, our simple, natural, inevitable
speech will cause them to do much better than learn from us, it will cause them to learn from
their own souls. And however uncertain may be a harvest from questions asked of others, a great
question rightly put to one's self not only must be fruitful, but carries in it a capacity
for infinite fruitfulness; while the longer and more patiently and persistently one can wait
for an answer, the richer his future is to be. I am sure of him who can put to his heart the
great questions of life, and wait serenely and vigilantly for a response, one, two, ten years,
a lifetime, wellnigh an eternity, if need be, not falling into despondencies and despairing
skepticisms because the universe forbears to babble and tattle its secret ere yet he half or
a thousandth part guesses how deep and holy that secret is, but quietly, heroically asking
and waiting. And toward this posture of asking the profound and vital words assist us by being
heard,--which is their first eminent use to us.

Secondly, they serve us greatly, when they simply cause a preëxisting community of thought
to be mutually recognized. It is much to bring like to like, brand to brand, believing soul
to believing soul. As several pieces of anthracite coal will together make a powerful heat,
but separately will not burn at all, so in the conjunction of similar faiths and beliefs there
is a wholly new effect; it is not at all the mere sum of the forces previously in operation,
but a pure product of union. "My confidence in my own belief," said Novalis, "is increased
infinitely the moment another shares it with me. The reason is obvious. You and I have grown
up apart, and have never conferred together; our temperaments, culture, circumstances are different;
we have come to have certain thoughts which seem to us true and deep, but each of us doubts
whether these thoughts may not be due to his peculiarities of mind, position, and influence.
But to-day we come together, and discover, that, despite these outward diversities in which
we are so widely unlike, our fundamental faiths are one and the same; the same thoughts, the
same beliefs have sprung into life in our separate souls. Instantly is suggested a unity underlying
our divided being, a law of thought abiding in mind itself,--not merely in your mind or mine,
but in the mind and soul of man. What we arrive at, therefore, is not merely the sum of you
and me, the aggregate of two men's opinions, but the universal, the absolute, and spiritually
necessary. Such is always the suggestion which spontaneous unity of faith carries with it;
hence it awakens religion, and gives total peace and rest."

But the faiths which are to be capable of these divine embraces must indeed be spontaneous
and native. Hence those who create factitious unity of creed render these fructifications impossible.
If we agree, not because the absolute soul has uttered in both of us the same word, but because
we have both been fed with dust out of the same catechism, our unity will disgust and weary
us rather than invigorate. Dr. Johnson said he would compel men to believe as he and the Church
of England did, "because," he reasoned, "if another differs from me, he weakens my confidence
in my own scheme of faith, and so injures me." Now this speech is good just so far as it asserts
social dependence in belief; it is bad, it is idiotic or insane, so far as it advocates the
substitution of a factitious and artificial unity for one of spiritual depth and reality. The
fruits of the tree of life are not to be successfully thieved. In dishonest hands they become
ashes and bitterness. He who has more faith in an Act of Parliament than in God and the universe
may be a good conventional believer; but, in truth, the choice he makes is the essence of all
denial and even of all atheism and blasphemy.

Let each, then, bring up out of his own soul its purest, broadest, simplest faith; and when
any ten or ten thousand find that the same faith has come to birth in their several souls,
each one of them all will be exalted to a divine confidence, and will make new requisitions
upon the soul which he has so been taught to trust. Thus, though we tell each nothing new,
though we merely demonstrate our unity of consciousness, yet is the force of each many times
multiplied,--dimless certitude and dauntless courage being bred in hearts where before, perhaps,
were timorous hesitation and wavering.

The third service of words may be compared to the help which the smith renders to the fire
on his forge. True it is that no blowing can enkindle dead coals, and make a flame where was
no spark. True it is that both spark and bellows will be vain, if the fuel is stone or clay.
And so no blowing will enkindle a nature which does not bring in itself the fire to be fanned
and the substance that may support it. But in our being, as at the forge, the flame that languishes
may be taught to leap, and the spark that was hidden may be wrought into blaze.

Simple attraction and encouragement,--there is somewhat of the marvellous in their effects.
Physiologists tell us, that, if two liquids in the body are separated by a moist membrane,
and if one of these fluids be in motion and the other at rest, that which rests will of its
own accord force its way through the membrane and join the one which flows. So it is in history.
Any man who represents a spiritual streaming will command and draw into the current of his
soul those whose condition is one of stagnancy or arrest. Now courage and belief are streamings
forward; skepticism and timidity are stagnancies; panic, fear, and destructive denial are streamings
backward. True, now, it is, that any swift flowing, forward or backward, attracts; but progressive
or affirmative currents have this vast advantage, that they are health, and therefore the healthy
humanity in every man's being believes in them and belongs to them; and they accordingly are
like rivers, which, however choked up temporarily and made refluent, are sure in the end to
force their way; while negative and backward currents are like pestilences and conflagrations,
which of necessity limit themselves by exhaustion, if not mastered by happier means.

We may, indeed, note it as a nicety, that the membrane must be moist through which this transudation
is to take place; and I admit that there are men whose enveloping sheath of individualism and
egotism is so hard and dry, so little interpenetrated by candor and the love of truth, as to
be nearly impervious to noble persuasion; and were whole Missouris of tidings from the highest
intelligence rushing past them, they would still yawn, and say, "Do you get any news?" as innocently
as ever.

Nevertheless, history throbs with the mystery of this influence. A little girl slumping by
her mother's side awoke in a severe thunder-storm, and, nestling in terror near to the mother,
and shrinking into the smallest possible space, said, trembling, "Mother, are you afraid?"
"No, my dear," answered the lady, calmly. "Oh, well," said the child, assuming her full proportions,
and again disposing herself for sleep, "if you're not afraid, I'm not afraid," and was soon
slumbering quietly. What volumes of gravest human history in that little incident! So infinitely
easy are daring and magnanimity, so easy is transcendent height of thought and will, when exalted
spiritually, when imperial valor and purpose breathe and blow upon our souls from the lips
of a living fellow! Not, it may be, that anything new is said. That is not required. What another
now thrills, inspires, transfigures us by saying, we probably knew before, only dared not let
ourselves think that we knew it. The universe, perhaps, had not a nook so hidden that therein
we could have been solitary enough to whisper that divine suggestion to our own hearts. But
now some childlike man stands up and speaks it to the common air, in serenest unconsciousness
of doing anything singular. He has said it,--and lo, he lives! By the help of God, then, we
too, by word and deed, will utter our souls.

Get one hero, and you may have a thousand. Create a grand impulse in history, and no fear but
it will be reinforced. Obtain your champion in the cause of Right, and you shall have indomitable
armies that charge for social justice.

More of the highest life is suppressed in every one of us than ever gets vent; and it is this
inward suppression, after making due account of all outward oppressions and injuries, which
constitutes the chief tragedy of history. Daily men cast to the ground the proffered beakers
of heaven, from mere fear to drink. Daily they rebuke the divine, inarticulate murmur that
arises from the deeps of their being,--inarticulate only because denied and reproved. And he
is greatest who can meet with a certain pure intrepidity those suggestions which haunt forever
the hearts of men.

No greater blunder, accordingly, was ever made than that of attempting to render men brave
and believing by addressing them as cowards and infidels. Garibaldi stands up before his soldiers
in Northern Italy, and says to them, (though I forget the exact words,) "I do not call you
to fortune and prosperity; I call you to hardship, to suffering, to death; I ask you to give
your toil without reward, to spill your blood and lie in unknown graves, to sacrifice all for
your country and kind, and hear no thanks but the Well done of God in heaven." Did they cower
and go back? Ere the words had spent their echoes, every man's will was as the living adamant
of God's purpose, and every man's hand was as the hand of Destiny, and from the shock of their
onset the Austrians fled as from the opening jaws of an earthquake. Demosthenes told Athens
only what Athens knew. He merely blew upon the people's hearts with their own best thoughts;
and what a blaze! True, the divine fuel was nearly gone, Athens wellnigh burnt out, and the
flame lasted not long; but that he could produce such effects, when half he fanned was merest
ashes, serves all the more to show how great such effects may be.

Before passing to the last and profoundest use of communication, I must not omit to mention
that which is most obvious, but not most important,--the giving of ordinary informations and
instructions. These always consist in a suggestion to another of new combinations of his notions,
new societies in his mind. Thus, if I say, Fire burns, I simply assert a connection between
fire and burning,--the notion of both these being assumed as existing in the mind of the person
addressed. Or if I say, God is just, I invite him to associate in his mind the sentiment of
justice and the sense of the infinite and omnipotent. Now in respect to matters of mere external
form we usually confide in the representations of others, and picture to ourselves, so far
as our existing perceptions enable us, the combinations they affirm,--provided always these
have a certain undefined conformity with our own experience. But in respect to association,
not of mere notions, but of spiritual elements in the soul,--of truths evolved by the spiritual
nature of man,--the case is quite different Thus, if the fool who once said in his heart, "There
is no God," should now say openly, (of course by some disguising euphemism,) "God is an egotist,"
I may indeed shape an opinion accordingly, and fall into great confusion in consequence; but
my spiritual nature does not consent to this representation; no real association takes place
within me between the sense of the divine and the conception of egotism. Such opinion may have
immense energy in history, but it has no efficiency in the eliciting and outbuilding of our
personal being; these representations, however we may trust and base action upon them, serve
us inwardly only to such degree as our spiritual nature can ally itself with them and find
expression in them. It is simply impossible for any man to associate the idea of divinity with
the conception of selfishness; but he may associate the notion of Zeus or Allah or the like
with that or any other conception of baseness, and out of the result may form a sort of crust
over his spiritual intelligence, which shall either imprison it utterly, or force it to oblique
and covert expression. And of this last, by the way,--and we may deeply rejoice over the fact,--history
is full.

Yet in this suggestion toward new societies in the soul, in this formal introduction to each
other of kindred elements in the consciousness, there may be eminent service. It is only formal,
it does not make friendship, it leaves our spirits to their own action; but it may prepare
the way for inward unities and communities whose blessedness neither speech nor silence can tell.

Finally, there is an effect of words profounder and more creative than any of these. As a brand
which burns powerfully may at last ignite even green wood, so divine faiths, alive and awake
in one soul, may appeal to the mere elements, to mere possibilities, of such faiths in other
souls, and at length evoke them by that appeal. The process is slow; it requires a celestial
heat and persistency in the moving spirit; it is one of the "all things" that are possible
only with God: but it occurs, and it is the most sacred and precious thing in history.

Every human soul has the absolute soul, has the whole truth, significance, and virtue of the
universe, as its lawful and native resource. Therefore says Jesus, "The kingdom of heaven is
within you"; therefore Antoninus, "Look inwards, within is the fountain of truth"; therefore
Eckart, "Ye have all truth potentially within you." All ideas of truth dwell in every soul,
but in every soul they are at first wrapped in deep sleep, in an infinite depth of sleep; while
the base incense of brutish lives is like chloroform, or the fumes of some benumbing drug,
to steep them ever more and more in oblivion. But to awaken truth thus sleeping in the soul
is the highest use of discipline, the noblest aim of culture, and the most eminent service
which man can render to man. The scheme of our life is providentially arranged with reference
to that end; and the thousand shocks, agitations, and moving influences of our experience,
the supreme invitations of love, the venom of calumny, and all toil, trial, sudden bereavement,
doubt, danger, vicissitude, joy, are hands that shake and voices that assail the lethargy of
our deepest powers. Now it is in the power of truth divinely awakened in one soul to assist
its awakening in another. For as nothing so quickly arouses us from slumber as hearing ourselves
called upon by name, so is it with this celestial inhabitant: whoever by virtue of elder brotherhood
can rightly name him shall cause his spirit to be stirred and his slumber to be broken.

Let him, therefore, in whom any great truth is alive and awake, enunciate, proclaim it steadily,
clearly, cheerily, with a serene and cloudless passion; and wherever a soul less mature than
his own lies open to the access of his tones, there the eye-fast angels of belief and knowledge
shall hear that publication of their own hearts, and, hearing, lift their lids, and rise into
wakefulness and power.

Seldom, indeed, is any voice, though it be in its origin a genuine voice of the soul, pure
and impartial enough, enough delivered from the masks of egotism and accident, to be greatly
competent for these effects. Besides which, there are not a few that have closed their ears,
lest they should hear, not a few that are even filled with base astonishment and terror, and
out of this with base wrath, to find their deafness assailed. And still further, it must be
freely owned that our natures have mysterious elections, and though one desire openness of
soul as much as folly fears it, yet may it happen that some tint of peculiarity in the tone
of a worthy voice shall render it to him opaque and unintelligible.

Yet let us not fear that the product of any sacred and spiritual sincerity will fail of sufficient
uses. If a deep, cordial, and clarified nature will but give us his heart in a pure and boundless
bravery of confession,--if, like autumn plants, that cast forth their seeds, winged with down,
to the four winds of heaven, or like the blossoms of spring and early summer, that yield up
their preciousness of pollen to the forage of bees, and even by being so robbed attain to the
hearts of neighbor-blossoms, and accomplish that mystery of fructification which is to make
glad the maturer year,--if so this inflorescence of eternity that we name a Noble Man will
yield up the golden pollen of his soul, even to those that in visiting him seek but their own
ends, and if so he will intrust winged words, words that are indeed spiritual seeds, purest,
ripest, and most vital products of his being, to the winds of time,--he will be sure to reach
some, and they to reach others, and there is no telling how far the seminal effect may go;
there is no telling what harvests may yellow in the limitless fields of the future, what terrestrial
and celestial reapers may go home rejoicing, bearing their sheaves with them, what immortal
hungers may be fed at the feasts of earth and heaven, in final consequence of that lonely and
faithful sowing. As in the still mornings of summer the earliest awakened bird hesitates to
utter, yet utters, his solitary pipe, timidly rippling the silence, but is not long alone,
for quickly the melodious throb begins to beat in every tree-top, and soon the whole rapturous
grove gushes and palpitates into song,--even so, thus to appearance alone and unsupported,
begins that chant of belief which is destined to heave and roll in billows of melodious confession
over a continent, over a world. Thus does a faith that has lain long silent in the hearts of
nations suddenly answer to the note of its kind, astonishing all bystanders, astonishing most
of all the heart it inhabits. For, lo! the tree-tops of human life are full of slumbering melodies,
and if a song-sparrow pipe sincerely on the hill-sides of Judea, saying, after his own fashion
of speech, "Behold, the divine dawn hath visited my eyes," be sure that the forests of far-off
America, then unknown, will one day reply, and ten thousand thousand throats throbbing with
high response will make it mutually known all round the world that this auroral beam is not
for any single or private eye, but that the broad amber beauty of spiritual morning belongs
to man's being, and that in man's heart, by virtue of its perennial nature, is prophesied the
day whose sun shall be God and its earth heaven.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOUSE AND HOME PAPERS.

BY CHRISTOPHER CROWFIELD.

IX.

       *       *       *       *       *

SERVICE.

    When I beheld a lover woo
      A maid unwilling,
    And saw what lavish deeds men do,
      Hope's flagon filling,--
    What vines are tilled, what wines are spilled,
      And madly wasted,
    To fill the flask that's never filled,
      And rarely tasted:

    Devouring all life's heritage,
      And inly starving;
    Dulling the spirit's mystic edge,
      The banquet carving;
    Feasting with Pride, that Barmecide
      Of unreal dishes;
    And wandering ever in a wide,
      Wide world of wishes:

    For gain or glory lands and seas
      Endlessly ranging,
    Safety and years and health and ease
      Freely exchanging;
    Chiselling Humanity to dust
      Of glittering riches,
    God's blood-veined marble to a bust
      For Fame's cold niches:

    Desire's loose reins, and steed that stains
      The rider's raiment;
    Sorrow and sacrifice and pains
      For worthless payment:--
    When, ever as I moved, I saw
      The world's contagion,
    Then turned, O Love! to thy sweet law
      And compensation,--

    Well might red shame my cheek consume!
      O service slighted!
    O Bride of Paradise, to whom
      I long was plighted!
    Do I with burning lips profess
      To serve thee wholly,
    Yet labor less for blessedness
      Than fools for folly?

    The wary worldling spread his toils
      Whilst I was sleeping;
    The wakeful miser locked his spoils,
      Keen vigils keeping:
    I loosed the latches of my soul
      To pleading Pleasure,
    Who stayed one little hour, and stole
      My heavenly treasure.

    A friend for friend's sake will endure
      Sharp provocations;
    And knaves are cunning to secure,
      By cringing patience,
    And smiles upon a smarting cheek,
      Some dear advantage,--
    Swathing their grievances in meek
      Submission's bandage.

    Yet for thy sake I will not take
      One drop of trial,
    But raise rebellious hands to break
      The bitter vial.
    At hardship's surly-visaged churl
      My spirit sallies;
    And melts, O Peace! thy priceless pearl
      In passion's chalice.

    Yet never quite, in darkest night,
      Was I forsaken:
    Down trickles still some starry rill
      My heart to waken.
    O Love Divine! could I resign
      This changeful spirit
    To walk thy ways, what wealth of grace
      Might I inherit!

    If one poor flower of thanks to thee
      Be truly given,
    All night thou snowest down to me
      Lilies of heaven!
    One task of human love fulfilled,
      Thy glimpses tender
    My days of lonely labor gild
      With gleams of splendor!

    One prayer,--"Thy will, not mine!"--and bright,
      O'er all my being,
    Breaks blissful light, that gives to sight
      A subtler seeing;
    Straightway mine ear is tuned to hear
      Ethereal numbers,
    Whose secret symphonies insphere
      The dull earth's slumbers.

    "Thy will!"--and I am armed to meet
      Misfortune's volleys;
    For every sorrow I have sweet,
      Oh, sweetest solace!
    "Thy will!"--no more I hunger sore,
      For angels feed me;
    Henceforth for days, by peaceful ways,
      They gently lead me.

    For me the diamond dawns are set
      In rings of beauty,
    And all my paths are dewy wet
      With pleasant duty;
    Beneath the boughs of calm content
      My hammock swinging,
    In this green tent my eves are spent,
      Feasting and singing.

       *       *       *       *       *

MADAME RÉCAMIER.

HER LOVERS, AND HER FRIENDS.

As the most beautiful woman of her day, Madame Récamier is widely known; as the friend of Châteaubriand
and De Staël, she is scarcely less so. An historic as well as literary interest is attached
to her name; for she lived throughout the most momentous and exciting period of modern times.
Her relations with influential and illustrious men of successive revolutions were intimate
and confidential; and though the rôle she played was but negative, the influence she exerted
has closely connected her with the political history of her country.

But interesting as her life is from this point of view, in its social aspect it has a deeper
significance. It is the life of a beautiful woman,--and so varied and romantic, so fruitful
in incident and rich in experience, that it excites curiosity and invites speculation. It is
a life difficult, if not impossible, to understand. Herein lies its peculiar and engrossing
fascination. It is a curious web to unravel, a riddle to solve, a problem at once stimulating
and baffling. Like the history of the times, it is full of puzzling contradictions and striking
contrasts. The daughter of a provincial notary, Madame Récamier was the honored associate of
princes. A married woman, she was a wife only in name. A beauty and a belle, she was as much
admired by her own as by the other sex. A coquette, she changed passionate lovers into lifelong
friends. Accepting the open and exclusive homage of married men, she continued on the best
of terms with their wives. One day the mistress of every luxury that wealth can command,--the
next a bankrupt's wife. One year the reigning "Queen of Society,"--the next a suspected exile.
As much flattered and courted when she was poor as while she was rich. Just as fascinating
when old and blind as while young and beautiful. Loss of fortune brought no loss of power,--decline
of beauty, no decrease of admiration. Modelled by artists, flattered by princes, adored by
women, eulogized by men of genius, courted by men of letters,--the beloved of the chivalric
Augustus of Prussia, and the selfish, dreamy Châteaubriand,--with the high-toned Montmorencys
for her friends, and the simple-minded Ballanche for her slave. Such were some of the triumphs,
such some of the contrasts in the life of this remarkable woman.

It is hard to conceive of a more brilliant career, or of one more calculated from its singularity
to give rise to contradictory impressions. This natural perplexity is much increased by the
character of Madame Récamier's memoirs, published in 1859, ten years after her death. They
are from the pen of Madame Lenormant, the niece of Monsieur Récamier, and the adopted daughter
of his wife. To her Madame Récamier bequeathed her papers, with the request that she should
write the narrative of her life. Madame Lenormant had a delicate and difficult task to execute.
The life she was to portray was strictly a social one. It was closely interwoven with the lives
of other persons still living or lately dead. She owed heavy obligations to both. It is, therefore,
not surprising, if her narrative is at times broken and obscure, and she a too partial biographer.
Not that Madame Lenormant can be called untrustworthy. She cannot be accused of misrepresenting
facts, but she does what is almost as bad,--she partially states them. Her vague allusions
and half-and-half statements excite curiosity without gratifying it. We also crave to know
more than she tells us of the heart-history of this woman who so captivated the world,--to
see her sometimes in the silence of solitude, alone with her own thoughts,--to gain an insight
into the inner, that we may more perfectly comprehend the outward life which so perplexes and
confounds. Instead of all this, we have drawing-room interviews with the object of our interest.
We see her chiefly as she appeared in society. We have to be content with what others say of
her, in lieu of what she might say for herself. We hear of her conquests, her social triumphs,
we listen to panegyrics, but are seldom admitted behind the scenes to judge for ourselves of
what is gold and what is tinsel. We, moreover, seek in vain for those unconscious revelations
so precious in divining character. The few letters of Madame Récamier that are published have
little or no significance. She was not fond of writing, still she corresponded regularly with
several of her friends; but her correspondence, it seems, has not been obtained by her biographer.
The best insight we get, therefore, into the emotional part of her nature is from indirect
allusions in letters addressed to her, and from conclusions drawn from her course of conduct
in particular cases. Some of the incidents of her life are so dramatic, that, if fully and
faithfully told, they would of themselves reveal the true character of the woman, but as it
is we have but little help from them. It is impossible to resist the conviction that Madame
Lenormant would not hesitate to suppress any circumstances that might cast a shadow on the
memory of her aunt. It is true that she occasionally relates facts tending to injure Madame
Récamier, but it is plain to be seen that she herself is totally unconscious of the nature
and tendency of these disclosures. Upon the publication of her book, these indiscretions excited
the displeasure of Madame Récamier's warm personal friends. One of them, Madame Möhl, by birth
an Englishwoman, undertook her defence. This lady corrects a few slight inaccuracies of the
"Souvenirs," and since she cannot controvert its more important facts, she attempts to explain
them. Her sketch[A] of Madame Récamier is pleasant, from its personal recollections, but far
inferior to one by Sainte-Beuve,[B] which is eminently significant. Neither, as sources of
information, can supply the place of the more voluminous and explicit "Souvenirs." It is a
little singular that this work has not been translated into English, for, in spite of its lack
of method, its diffuseness and disproportionate developments, it is very attractive and interesting.
It is also highly valuable for its large collection of letters from distinguished people. In
the sketch we propose to make of Madame Récamier's life, we shall rely mainly upon it for our
facts, giving in connection our own view of her character and career.

The beauty which first won celebrity for Madame Récamier was hers by inheritance. Her father
was a remarkably handsome man, but a person of narrow capacity, who owed his advancement in
life solely to the exertions of his more capable wife. Madame Bernard was a beautiful blonde.
She was lively and spirituelle, coquettish and designing. Through her influence with Calonne,
minister under Louis XVI., Monsieur Bernard was made Receveur des Finances. Upon this appointment,
in 1784, they came to Paris, leaving their only child, Juliette, then seven years old, at Lyons,
in the care of an aunt, though she was soon afterward placed in a convent, where she remained
three years. Monsieur and Madame Bernard's style of living in Paris was both elegant and generous.
Their house became the resort of the Lyonnese, and also of literary men,--the latter being
especially courted by Madame Bernard. But, though seemingly given up to a life of gayety and
pleasure, she did not neglect her own interests. Her cleverness was of the Becky-Sharp order.
She knew how to turn the admiration she excited to her own advantage. Having a faculty for
business, she engaged in successful speculations and amassed a fortune, which she carried safely
through the Reign of Terror. This is the more remarkable as Monsieur Bernard was a known Royalist.
He and his family and his wife's friends escaped not only death, but also persecution; and
Madame Lenormant attributes this rare good-fortune to the agency of the infamous Barrère. Barrère's
cruelty was equalled only by his profligacy, his cunning by his selfishness. But even taking
a much milder view of Barrère's character, it is a matter of history by what terms the unfortunate
victims of the Revolution purchased of him their own lives and those of their friends, and
it is certain that his friendship and protection were no honor to any woman. This view of their
intimacy is confirmed by Madame Möhl. In speaking of a rumor current in Madame Récamier's lifetime,
which reflected severely upon her mother, she says that Madame Bernard's reputation had nothing
to lose by this story, and mentions the favors she received at the hands both of Calonne and
Barrère.

Juliette Bernard was ten years old when she joined her parents in Paris, where she was placed
under the care of masters. She played with skill on the harp and piano, and being passionately
fond of music, it became her solace and amusement at an advanced age. In her youth dancing
was equally a passion with her. The grace with which she executed the shawl-dance suggested
to Madame de Staël the dance-scene in "Corinne." It is said that great care was bestowed upon
her education; but as it is also stated that long hours were passed at the toilette, that she
was the pet of all her mother's friends, who, as proud of her daughter's beauty as she was
of her own, took her constantly to the theatre and public assemblies, little time could have
been devoted to systematic instruction. There is no mention made throughout her life of any
favorite studies or favorite books, and she was, moreover, married at fifteen.

Monsieur Récamier was forty-four years old when he proposed for the hand of Juliette Bernard.
She accepted him without either reluctance or distrust. Much sympathy has been lavished upon
Madame Récamier on account of this marriage, and her extreme youth is urged as an excuse for
this false step of her life. Still she did not take it blindly. Her mother thought it her duty
to lay before her all the objections to a union where there existed such a disparity of age.
No undue influence was exerted, therefore, in favor of the marriage. Nor was Mademoiselle Bernard
as unsophisticated as French girls usually are at that age. Her childhood had not been passed
in seclusion. Since she was ten years old she had been constantly in the society of men of
letters and men of the world. Under such influences girls ripen early, and in marrying Monsieur
Récamier she at least realized all her expectations. She did not look for mutual affection;
she expected to find in him a generous and indulgent protector, and this anticipation was not
disappointed. If she discovered too late that she had other and greater needs, she was deeply
to be pitied, but the responsibility of the step must remain with her. Madame Lenormant says
of the union,--"It was simply an apparent one. Madame Récamier was a wife only in name. This
fact is astonishing. But I am not bound to explain it, only to attest its truth, which all
of Madame Récamier's friends can confirm. Monsieur Récamier's relations to his wife were strictly
of a paternal character. He treated the young and innocent child who bore his name as a daughter
whose beauty charmed him and whose celebrity flattered his vanity."

As an explanation of these singular relations, Madame Möhl states that it was the general belief
of Madame Récamier's contemporaries that she was the own daughter of Monsieur Récamier, whom
the unsettled state of the times had induced him to marry; but there is not a shadow of evidence
in support of this hypothesis,--though, to make it more probable, Madame Möhl adds, that "Madame
Lenormant rather confirms than contradicts this rumor." In this she is strangely mistaken.
Madame Lenormant does not allude to the report at all. Still she tacitly contradicts it. Her
account of Monsieur Récamier's course with regard to the divorce proposed between him and his
wife is of itself a sufficient refutation of this idle story.

Monsieur Récamier was a tall, vigorous, handsome man, of easy, agreeable manners. Perfectly
polite, he was deficient in dignity, and preferred the society of his inferiors to that of
his equals. He wrote and spoke Spanish with fluency, had some knowledge of Latin, and was fond
of quoting Horace and Virgil. "It would be difficult to find," says his niece, "a heart more
generous than his, more easily moved, and yet more volatile. Let a friend need his time, his
money, his advice, it was immediately at his service; but let that same friend be taken away
by death, he would scarcely give two days to regret: 'Encore un tiroir fermé', he would say,
and there would end his sensibility. Always ready to give and willing to serve, he was a good
companion, and benevolent and gay in his temper. He carried his optimism to excess, and was
always content with everybody and everything. He had fine natural abilities, and the gift of
expression, being a good story-teller." He was married in 1793, the most gloomy period of the
Reign of Terror, and went every day to see the executions, wishing, he said, to familiarize
himself with the fate he had every reason to fear would be his own.

The first four years of her marriage were passed by Madame Récamier in retirement, but when
the government was settled under the Consulate she mingled freely and gayly in society. This
was probably the happiest period of her life. Her husband was at the height of financial prosperity,
and lavished every luxury upon his beautiful wife. Both their country-seat at Clichy and their
town-house in the Rue Mont Blanc were models of elegant taste. Large dinner-parties and balls
were given at the latter, but all the intimate friends went to Clichy, where Madame Récamier
chiefly resided with her mother. Her husband only dined there, driving in to Paris every night.
She was very fond of flowers, and filled her rooms with them. At that time floral decorations
were a novelty, and another attraction was added to the charms of Clichy. Not only there, but
in society, Madame Récamier reigned a queen. She had been pronounced by acclamation "the most
beautiful," and she enjoyed her triumphs with all the gayety and freshness of youth. Madame
Lenormant asserts that she was unconscious of her beauty, and yet, with an amusing inconsistency,
she adds that Madame Récamier always dressed in white and wore pearls in preference to other
jewels, that the dazzling whiteness of her skin might eclipse their softness and purity. It
was, in fact, impossible to be unconscious of a beauty so ravishing that it intoxicated all
beholders. At the theatre, at the promenade, at public assemblies, she was followed by admiring
throngs.

"She was sensible," writes one who knew her well, "of every look, every word of admiration,--the
exclamation of a child or a woman of the people, equally with the declaration of a prince.
In crowds from the side of her elegant carriage, which advanced slowly, she thanked each for
his admiration by a motion of the head and a smile."

As an instance of the effect she produced, Madame Lenormant gives the testimony of a contemporary,
Madame Regnauld de Saint-Jean d'Angely, who, talking over her own beauty and that of other
women of her youth, named Madame Récamier. "Others," she said, "were more truly beautiful,
but none produced so much effect. I was in a drawing-room where I charmed and captivated all
eyes. Madame Récamier entered. The brilliancy of her eyes, which were not, however, very large,
the inconceivable whiteness of her shoulders, crushed and eclipsed everybody. She was resplendent.
At the end of a moment, however, the true amateurs returned to me."

It was not her own countrymen alone who raved about her beauty. The sober-minded English people
were quite as much impressed. When she visited England during the short peace of Amiens, she
created intense excitement. The journals recorded her movements, and on one occasion in Kensington
Gardens the crowd was so great that she narrowly escaped being crushed. At the Opera she was
obliged to steal away early to avoid a similar annoyance, and then barely succeeded in reaching
her carriage. Châteaubriand tells us that her portrait, engraved by Bartolozzi, and spread
throughout England, was carried thence to the isles of Greece. Ballanche, remarking on this
circumstance, said that it was "beauty returning to the land of its birth."

Years after, when the allied sovereigns were in Paris, and Madame Récamier thirty-eight years
old, the effect of her beauty was just as striking. Madame de Krüdener, celebrated for her
mysticism and the power she exerted over the Emperor Alexander, then held nightly reunions,
beginning with prayer and ending in a more worldly fashion. Madame Récamier's entrance always
caused distraction, and Madame de Krüdener commissioned Benjamin Constant to write and beseech
her to be less charming. As this piquant note will lose its flavor by translation, we give
it in the original.

"Je m'acquitte avec un peu d'embarras d'une commission que Mme. de Krüdener vient de me donner.
Elle vous supplie de venir la moins belle que vous pourrez. Elle dit que vous éblouissez tout
le monde, et que par là toutes les âmes sont troublées, et toutes les attentions impossibles.
Vous ne pouvez pas déposer votre charme, mais ne le rehaussez pas."

Madame Récamier's personal appearance at eighteen is thus described by her niece:--

"A figure flexible and elegant; neck and shoulders admirably formed and proportioned; a well-poised
head; a small, rosy mouth, pearly teeth, charming arms, though a little small, and black hair
that curled naturally. A nose delicate and regular, but bien français, and an incomparable
brilliancy of complexion. A countenance full of candor, and sometimes beaming with mischief,
which the expression of goodness rendered irresistibly lovely. There was a shade of indolence
and pride in her gestures, and what Saint Simon said of the Duchess of Burgundy is equally
applicable to her: 'Her step was that of a goddess on the clouds.'"

Madame Récamier retained her beauty longer than is usual even with Frenchwomen, nor did she
seek to repair it by any artificial means. "She did not struggle," says Sainte-Beuve, "she
resigned herself gracefully to the first touch of Time. She understood, that, for one who had
enjoyed such success as a beauty, to seem yet beautiful was to make no pretensions. A friend
who had not seen her for many years complimented her upon her looks. 'Ah, my dear friend,'
she replied, 'it is useless for me to deceive myself. From the moment I noticed that the little
Savoyards in the street no longer turned to look at me, I comprehended that all was over.'"
There is pathos in this simple acknowledgment, this quiet renunciation. Was it the result of
secret struggles which taught her that all regret was vain, and that to contrast the present
with the past was but a useless and torturing thing for a woman?

But at the time of which we write Madame Récamier had no sad realities to ponder. She was surrounded
by admirers, with the liberty which French society accords to married women, and the freedom
of heart of a young girl. She was still content to be simply admired. She understood neither
the world nor her own heart. Her life was too gay for reflection, nor had the time arrived
for it: "all analysis comes late." It is not until we have in a measure ceased to be actors,
and have accepted the more passive rôle of spectators, that we begin to reflect upon ourselves
and upon life. And Madame Récamier had not tired of herself, or of the world. She was too young
to be heart-weary, and she knew nothing yet of the burdens and perplexities of life. All her
wishes were gratified before they were fairly expressed, and she had neither anxieties nor cares.

Her first vexation came with her first lover. It was in the spring of 1799 that Madame Récamier
met Lucien Bonaparte at a dinner. He was then twenty-four, and she twenty-two. He asked permission
to visit her at Clichy, and made his appearance there the next day. He first wrote to her,
declaring his love, under the name of Romeo, and she, taking advantage of the subterfuge, returned
his letter in the presence of other friends, with a compliment on its cleverness, while she
advised him not to waste his ability on works of imagination, when it could be so much better
employed in politics. Lucien was not thus to be repulsed. He then addressed her in his own
name, and she showed the letters to her husband, and asked his advice. Monsieur Récamier was
more politic than indignant. His wife wished to forbid Lucien the house, but he feared that
such extreme measures toward the brother of the First Consul might compromise, if not ruin,
his bank. He therefore advised her neither to encourage nor repulse him. Lucien continued his
attentions for a year,--the absurd emphasis of his manners at times amusing Madame Récamier,
while at others his violence excited her fears. At last, becoming conscious that he was making
himself ridiculous, he gave up the pursuit in despair. Some time after he had discontinued
his visits he sent a friend to demand his letters; but Madame Récamier refused to give them
up. He sent a second time, adding menace to persuasion; but she was firm in her refusal. It
was rumored that Lucien was a favored lover, and he was anxious to be so considered. His own
letters were the strongest proof to the contrary, and as such they were kept and guarded by
Madame Récamier. But the unpleasant gossip to which his attentions gave rise was a source of
great annoyance to her. If it was her first vexation, it was not the only one of the same kind.
Madame Lenormant makes no allusion, to any other, but in the lately published correspondence
of Madame de Staël[C] we find among the letters to Madame Récamier one which consoles her under
what was probably a somewhat similar trouble. "I hear from Monsieur Hochet that you have a chagrin.

It was at a fête given by Lucien that Madame Récamier had her first and only interview with
the First Consul. On entering the drawing-room, she mistook him for his brother Joseph, and
bowed to him. He returned her salutation with empressement mingled with surprise. Looking at
her closely, he spoke to Fouché, who leaned over her chair and whispered, "The First Consul
finds you charming." When Lucien approached, Napoleon, who was no stranger to his brother's
passion, said aloud, "And I, too, would like to go to Clichy!" When dinner was announced, he
rose and left the room alone, without offering his arm to any lady. As Madame Récamier passed
out, Eliza (Madame Bacciocchi), who did the honors in the absence of Madame Lucien, who was
indisposed, requested her to take the seat next to the First Consul. Madame Récamier did not
understand her, and seated herself at a little distance, and on Cambacères, the Second Consul,
occupying the seat by her side, Napoleon exclaimed, "Ah, ah, citoyen consul, auprès de la plus
belle!" He ate very little and very fast, and at the end of half an hour left the table abruptly,
and returned to the drawing-room. He afterward asked Madame Récamier why she had not sat next
to him at dinner. "I should not have presumed," she said. "It was your place," he replied;
and his sister added, "That was what I said to you before dinner." A concert following, Napoleon
stood alone by the piano, but, not fancying the instrumental part of the performance, at the
end of a piece by Jadin, he struck on the piano and cried, "Garat! Garat!" who then sang a
scene from "Orpheus." Music always profoundly moved Madame Récamier, but whenever she raised
her eyes she found those of the Consul fixed upon her with so much intensity that she became
uncomfortable. After the concert, he came to her and said, "You are very fond of music, Madame,"
and would probably have continued the conversation, had not Lucien interrupted. Madame Récamier
confessed that she was prepossessed by Napoleon at this interview. She was evidently gratified
by his attentions, scanty and slight as they seem to us. Indeed, his whole conduct during the
dinner and concert was decidedly discourteous, if not positively rude. Madame Lenormant attributes
Napoleon's subsequent attempt to attach Madame Récamier to his court to the strong impression
she made upon him at this interview, and gives Fouché as her authority. Still, if this were
the case, it is rather strange that Napoleon did not follow up the acquaintance more speedily.
It was not until five years afterwards that he made the overtures to which Madame Lenormant
refers,--and then Madame Récamier had long been in the ranks of the Opposition. It was Napoleon's
policy to conciliate, if possible, his political opponents. He had succeeded in gaining over
Bernadotte, of whose intrigues against him Madame Récamier had been the confidante, and he
concluded that she also could be as easily won. He accordingly sent Fouché to her, who, after
several preliminary visits, proposed that she should apply for a position at court. As Madame
Récamier did not heed his suggestions, he spoke more openly. "He protested that the place would
give her entire liberty, and then, seizing with finesse upon the inducements most powerful
with a generous spirit, he dwelt upon the eminent services she might render to the oppressed
of all classes, and also the good influence so attractive a woman would exert over the mind
of the Emperor. 'He has not yet,' he added, 'found a woman worthy of him, and no one knows
what the love of Napoleon would be, if he attached himself to a pure person,--assuredly she
would obtain a power over him which would be entirely beneficent.'" If Madame Récamier listened
with politic calmness to these disgraceful overtures, she gave Fouché no encouragement. But
he was not easily discouraged. He planned another interview with her at the house of the Princess
Caroline, who added her persuasions to his. The conversation turning on Talma, who was then
performing at the French theatre, the Princess put her box, which was opposite the Emperor's,
at Madame Récamier's disposal; she used it twice, and each time the Emperor was present, and
kept his glass so constantly in her direction that it was generally remarked, and it was reported
that she was on the eve of high favor. Upon further persistence on the part of Fouché, Madame
Récamier gave him a decided refusal. He was vehemently indignant, and left Clichy never to
return thither. In the St. Helena Memorial, Napoleon attributes Madame Récamier's rejection
of his overtures to personal resentment on account of her father. In 1800 Monsieur Bernard
had been appointed Administrateur des Postes; being implicated in a Royalist conspiracy, he
was imprisoned, but finally set at liberty through the intercession of Bernadotte. Napoleon
believed that Madame Récamier resented her father's removal from office, but she was too thankful
at his release from prison to expect any further favors. Her dislike of the Emperor was caused
by his treatment of her friends, more particularly of the one dearest to her, Madame de Staël.

The friendship between these women was highly honorable to both, though the sacrifices were
chiefly on Madame Récamier's side. She espoused Madame de Staël's cause with zeal and earnestness;
and when the latter was banished forty leagues from Paris, she found an asylum with her. Among
the few fragments of autobiography preserved by Madame Lenormant is this account of the first
interview between the friends.

"One day, which I count an epoch in my life, Monsieur Récamier arrived at Clichy with a lady
whom he did not introduce, but whom he left alone with me while he joined some other persons
in the park. This lady came about the sale and purchase of a house. Her dress was peculiar.
She wore a morning-robe, and a little dress-hat decorated with flowers. I took her for a foreigner,
and was struck with the beauty of her eyes and of her expression. I cannot analyze my sensations,
but it is certain I was more occupied in divining who she was than in paying her the usual
courtesies, when she said to me, with a lively and penetrating grace, that she was truly enchanted
to know me; that her father, Monsieur Necker.... At these words, I recognized Madame de Staël!
I did not hear the rest of her sentence. I blushed. My embarrassment was extreme. I had just
read with enthusiasm her letters on Rousseau, and I expressed what I felt more by my looks
than by my words. She intimidated and attracted me at the same time. I saw at once that she
was a perfectly natural person, of a superior nature. She, on her side, fixed upon me her great
black eyes, but with a curiosity full of benevolence, and paid me compliments which would have
seemed too exaggerated, had they not appeared to escape her, thus giving to her words an irresistible
seduction. My embarrassment did me no injury. She understood it, and expressed a wish to see
more of me on her return to Paris, as she was then on the eve of starting for Coppet. She was
at that time only an apparition in my life, but the impression was a lively one. I thought
only of Madame de Staël, I was so much affected by her strong and ardent nature."

The sweet serenity of Madame Récamier's nature soothed the more restless and tumultuous spirit
of her friend. The unaffected veneration, too, of one so beautiful touched and gratified the
woman of genius. Still, this intimacy was not unmixed with bitterness for Madame de Staël.
But it troubled only her own heart, not the common friendship. She continually contrasted Madame
Récamier's beauty with her own plain appearance, her friend's power of fascination with her
own lesser faculty of interesting, and she repeatedly declared that Madame Récamier was the
most enviable of human beings. But in comparing the lives of the two, as they now appear to
us, Madame de Staël seems the more fortunate. If her married life was uncongenial, she had
children to love and cherish, to whom she was fondly attached. Madame Récamier was far more
isolated. Years had made her entirely independent of her husband, and she had no children upon
whom to lavish the wealth of her affection. Her mother's death left her comparatively alone
in the world, for she had neither brother nor sister, and her father seems to have had but
little hold on her heart, all her love being lavished on her mother. She had a host of friends,
it is true, but the closest friendship is but a poor substitute for the natural ties of affection.
Both these women sighed for what they had not. The one yearned for love, the other for the
liberty of loving. Madame Récamier was dependent for her enjoyments on society, while Madame
de Staël had rich and manifold resources within herself, which no caprice of friends could
materially affect, and no reverse of fortune impair. Her poetic imagination and creative thought
were inexhaustible treasures. Solitude could never be irksome to her. Her genius brought with
it an inestimable blessing. It gave her a purpose in life,--consequently she was never in want
of occupation; and if at intervals she bitterly felt that heart-loneliness which Mrs. Browning
has so touchingly expressed in verse,--

    "'My father!'--thou hast knowledge, only thou! Madame Récamier, though beautiful and
beloved, had no such precious compensations. She depended for her
happiness upon her friends, and they who rely upon others for their
chief enjoyments must meet with bitter and deep disappointments. Madame
Récamier had great triumphs which secured to her moments of rapture.
When the crowd worshipped her beauty, she probably experienced the same
delirium of joy, the same momentary exultation, that a prima donna
feels when called before an excited and enthusiastic audience. But
satiety and chagrin surely follow such triumphs, and she lived to feel
their hollowness.

In a letter to her adopted daughter, she says,--"I hope you will be more happy than I have
been"; and she confessed to Sainte-Beuve, that more than once in her most brilliant days, in
the midst of fêtes where she reigned a queen, she disengaged herself from the crowd surrounding
her and retired to weep in solitude. Surely so sad a woman was not to be envied.

Another friend of Madame Récamier's youth, whose friendship in a marked degree influenced her
life, was Matthieu de Montmorency. He was seventeen years older than she, and may with emphasis
be termed her best friend. A devout Roman Catholic, he awakened and strengthened her religious
convictions, and constantly warned her of the perils surrounding her. Much as he evidently
admired and loved her, he did not hesitate to utter unwelcome truths. Vicomte, afterward Duc
de Montmorency, belonged to one of the oldest families of France, but, espousing the Revolutionary
cause, he was the first to propose the abolition of the privileges of the nobility. He was
married early in life to a woman without beauty, to whom he was profoundly indifferent, and
soon separated from her, though from family motives the tie was renewed in after-years. In
his youth he had been gay and dissipated; but the death of a favorite brother, who fell a victim
to the Revolution, changed and sobered him. From an over-sensibility, he believed himself to
be the cause of his brother's death on account of the part he had taken in hastening the Revolution,
and he strove to atone for this mistake, as well as for his youthful follies, by a life of
austerity and piety. While his letters testify his great affection for Madame Récamier, they
are entirely free from those lover-like protestations and declarations of eternal fidelity
so characterise of her other masculine correspondents. He always addressed her as "amiable
amis", and his nearest approach to gallantry is the expression of a hope that "in prayer their
thoughts had often mingled, and might continue so to do." He ends a long letter of religious
counsel with this grave warning:--"Do what is good and amiable, what will not rend the heart
or leave any regrets behind. But in the name of God renounce all that is unworthy of you, and
which under no circumstances can ever render you happy."

Adrien de Montmorency, Duke of Laval, if not so near and dear a friend, was quite as devoted
an admirer of Madame Récamier as his cousin Matthieu. His son also wore her chains, and frequently
marred the pleasure of his father's visits by his presence. In reference to the family's devotion,
Adrien wrote to her,--"My son is fascinated by you, and you know that I am so also. It is the
fate of the Montmorencys,--

    "'Ils ne mouraient pas tous, mais tout étaient frappés.'"

Adrien was a man of wit, and he had more ability than Matthieu. "Of all your admirers," writes
Madame de Staël, in a letter given in Châteaubriand's Memoirs, "you know that I prefer Adrien
de Montmorency. I have just received one of his letters, which is remarkable for wit and grace,
and I believe in the durability of his affections, notwithstanding the charm of his manners.
Besides, this word durability is becoming in me, who have but a secondary place in his heart.
But you are the heroine of all those sentiments out of which grow tragedies and romances."

Other admirers succeeded the Montmorencys. The masked balls, fashionable under the Empire,
were occasions for fresh conquests. Madame Récamier attended them regularly under the protection
of an elder brother of her husband, and had many piquant adventures. Prince Metternich was
devoted to her one season, and when Lent put an end to festivity, he visited her privately
in the morning, that he might not incur the Emperor's displeasure. Napoleon's animosity had
now become marked and positive. On one occasion, when three of his ministers met accidentally
at her house, he heard of it, and asked petulantly how long since had the council been held
at Madame Récamier's? He was especially jealous of foreign ministers, and treated with so much
haughtiness any who frequented her salon, that, as a matter of prudence, they saw her only
in society or visited her by stealth. The Duke of Mecklenburg, whom she met at one of the masked
balls, was extremely anxious to keep up her acquaintance. She declined the honor, alleging
the Emperor's jealousy as reason for her refusal. He persuaded her, however, to grant him an
interview, and she appointed an evening when she did not generally receive visitors. Stealing
into the house in an undignified manner, the Duke was collared by the concierge, who mistook
him for a thief. This ill-fortune did not deter him, however, from visiting her frequently.
Years after, he wrote,--"Among the precious souvenirs which I owe to you is one I particularly
cherish. It is the eminently noble and generous course you pursued toward me, when Napoleon
had said openly, in the salon of the Empress Josephine, that he 'should regard as his personal
enemy any foreigner who frequented the salon of Madame Récamier.'"

Madame Récamier was to feel yet more severely the effects of the Emperor's displeasure. In
the autumn of 1806 the banking-house of Monsieur Récamier became embarrassed, through financial
disorders in Spain. Their difficulties would have been temporary, had the Bank of France granted
them a loan on good security. This favor was refused, and the house failed. While the decision
of the bank was yet uncertain, Monsieur Récamier confided to his wife the desperate state of
his affairs, and deputed her to do, the next day, the honors of a large dinner-party, which
could not be postponed, lest suspicion should be excited. He went into the country, completely
overwhelmed, and awaited there the result of his application. Madame Récamier forced herself
to appear as usual. No one suspected the agony of her mind. She afterwards said that she felt
the whole evening as though she were a prey to some horrible nightmare. In contrasting the
conduct of the husband and wife, Madame Lenormant is scarcely just to the former. Acutely as
Madame Récamier dreaded the impending ruin, it could not be to her what it was to her husband.
A fearful responsibility rested upon him. The failure of his house was not only disaster and
possible dishonor, but the ruin of thousands who had confided in him. A strong intellect might
well be bowed down under the apprehension of such a catastrophe. Women, too, are proverbially
calmer in such emergencies than men. To them it simply means sacrifice, but to men it is infinitely
more than that.

When the blow fell, Monsieur Récamier met it manfully. He gave up everything to his creditors,
who had so much confidence in his integrity that they put him at the head of the settlement
of liquidation. Madame Récamier was equally honorable. She sold all her jewels. They disposed
of their plate, and offered the house in the Rue Mont Blanc for sale. As a purchaser could
not immediately be found, they removed to the ground-floor and let the other stories. This
reverse of fortune involved more than personal sacrifices. Madame Récamier was both generous
and charitable, and had dispensed her benefits with an open hand. She had, with the aid of
friends, founded a school for orphans, and had numerous claims upon her bounty. To be restricted
in her charities must have been a sore trial. Further mortifications she was spared, for she
was treated with greater deference than ever. Her friends redoubled their attentions, her door
was besieged by callers, who vied with each other in showing sympathy and respect. Junot was
one of her firmest friends at this crisis. Witnessing, in Paris, the attentions she received,
he spoke of them to the Emperor, when he rejoined him in Germany. He was checked by Napoleon,
who pettishly remarked that they could not have paid more homage to the widow of a marshal
of France fallen on the field of battle.

Junot was not the only general of the Emperor who was concerned at her reverse of fortune.
Bernadotte, whom Sainte-Beuve numbers among her lovers, and whose letters confirm this idea,
wrote to her from Germany, expressing his sympathy. Madame de Staël was sensibly afflicted.
"Dear Juliette," she writes, "we have enjoyed the luxury which surrounded you. Your fortune
has been ours, and I feel ruined because you are no longer rich."

Another anxiety now weighed heavily upon Madame Récamier. Her mother's health had long been
failing, and the misfortunes of her son-in-law were more than her shattered constitution could
bear. She died six months after the failure, leaving her fortune to her daughter, though her
husband was still living. To the last she was devoted to dress and society. Throughout her
illness she insisted upon being becomingly dressed every day, and supported to a couch, where
she received her friends for several hours.

After Madame Bernard's death, her daughter passed six months in retirement, but, her grief
affecting her health, she was induced by Madame de Staël to visit her at Coppet. Here she met
the exiled Prince Augustus of Prussia, nephew of Frederick the Great. We find in the "Seaforth
Papers," lately published in England, an allusion to this Prince, who visited London in the
train of the allied sovereigns in 1814. A lady writes, "All the ladies are desperately in love
with him,--his eyes are so fine, his moustaches so black, and his teeth so white." Madame Lenormant
describes him as extremely handsome, brave, chivalric, and loyal. He was twenty-four when he
fell passionately in love with Madame de Staël's beautiful guest, to whom he at once proposed
a divorce and marriage. We give Madame Lenormant's account of his attachment.

"Three months passed in the enchantments of a passion by which Madame Récamier was profoundly
touched, if she did not share it. Everything conspired to favor Prince Augustus. The imagination
of Madame de Staël, easily seduced by anything poetical and singular, made her an eloquent
auxiliary of the Prince. The place itself, those beautiful shores of Lake Geneva, peopled by
romantic phantoms, had a tendency to bewilder the judgment. Madame Récamier was moved. For
a moment she welcomed an offer of marriage which was not only a proof of the passion, but of
the esteem of a prince of a royal house, deeply impressed by the weight of its own prerogatives
and the greatness of its rank. Vows were exchanged. The tie which united the beautiful Juliette
to Monsieur Récamier was one which the Catholic Church itself proclaimed null. Yielding to
the sentiment with which she inspired the Prince, Juliette wrote to Monsieur Récamier, requesting
the rupture of their union. He replied that he would consent to a divorce, if it was her wish,
but he made an appeal to her feelings. He recalled the affection he had shown her from childhood.
He even expressed regret at having respected her susceptibilities and repugnances, thus preventing
a closer bond of union, which would have made all thoughts of a separation impossible. Finally
he requested, that, if Madame Récamier persisted in her project, the divorce should not take
place in Paris, but out of France, where he would join her to arrange matters."

This letter had the desired effect. Madame Récamier concluded not to abandon her husband, and
returned to Paris, but without undeceiving the Prince, who started for Berlin. According to
her biographer, Madame Récamier trusted that absence would soften the disappointment she had
in store for him; but, if this was the case, the means she took to accomplish it were very
inadequate. She sent him her portrait soon after her return to Paris, which the Prince acknowledged
in a letter, of which the following is an extract:--

    "April 24th, 1808.

    "I hope that my letter of the 31st has already been received. I
    could only very feebly express to you the happiness I felt on the
    receipt of your last, but it will give you some idea of my
    sensations when reading it, and in receiving your portrait. For
    whole hours I looked at this enchanting picture, dreaming of a
    happiness which must surpass the most delicious reveries of
    imagination. What fate can be compared to that of the man whom you
    love?"

When Madame Récamier subsequently wrote to him more candidly, the Prince was astonished. "Your
letter was a thunderbolt," he replied; but he would not accept her decision, and claimed the
right of seeing her again. Three years passed in uncertainty, and in 1811 Madame Récamier consented
to meet him at Schaffhausen; but she did not fulfil her engagement, giving the sentence of
exile which had just been passed upon her as an excuse. The Prince, after waiting in vain,
wrote indignantly to Madame de Staël, "I hope I am now cured of a foolish love, which I have
nourished for four years." But when the news of her exile reached him, he wrote to her expressing
his sympathy, but at the same time reproaching her for her breach of faith. "After four years
of absence I hoped to see you again, and this exile seemed to furnish you with a pretext for
coming to Switzerland. But you have cruelly deceived me. I cannot conceive, if you could not
or would not see me, why you did not condescend to tell me so, and I might have been spared
a useless journey of three hundred leagues."

Madame Récamier's conduct to the Prince, even viewed in the light of her biographer's representations,
is scarcely justifiable. Madame Möhl attempts to defend her. She alleges, that, at the time
Prince Augustus was paying his addresses to her, he had contracted a left-handed marriage at
Berlin. Even if this story be true, there is no evidence that Madame Récamier was then acquainted
with the fact, and if she had been, there was only the more reason for breaking with the Prince
at once, instead of keeping him so long alternating between hope and despair. In speaking of
him to Madame Möhl, Madame Récamier said that he was desperately in love, but he was very gallant
and had many other fancies. The impression she made upon him, however, seems to have been lasting.
Three months before his death, in 1845, he wrote to her that the ring she had given him should
follow him to the tomb, and her portrait, painted by Gérard, was, at his death, returned to
her by his orders. Either the Prince had two portraits of Madame Récamier, or else Madame Lenormant's
statements are contradictory. She says that her aunt sent him her portrait soon after her return
to Paris, and the date of the Prince's letter acknowledging the favor confirms this statement.
It is afterward asserted that Madame Récamier gave him her portrait in exchange for one of
Madame de Staël, painted by Gérard, as Corinne.

The next important event in Madame Récamier's life is her exile, caused by a visit she paid
Madame de Staël when the surveillance exercised over the latter by the government had become
more rigorous. Montmorency had been already exiled for the same offence. But, disregarding
this warning, Madame Récamier persisted in going to Coppet, and though she only remained one
night there, she was exiled forty leagues from Paris.

She bore her exile with dignity. She would not solicit a recall, and she forbade those of her
friends, who, like Junot, were on familiar terms with the Emperor, to mention her name in his
presence. She doubtless felt all its deprivations, even more keenly than Madame de Staël, though
she made no complaints. Her means were narrow, as she does not appear to have been in the full
possession of her mother's fortune until after the Restoration. She had lived, with scarcely
an interruption, a life of society; now she was thrown on her own resources, with little except
music to cheer and enliven her. It was not only the loss of Paris that exiles under the Empire
had to endure. They were subjected to an annoying surveillance by the police, and even the
friends who paid them any attention became objects of suspicion.

The first eight months of her exile Madame Récamier passed at Chalons. She had for companionship
a little niece of her husband's, whom she had previously adopted. At the suggestion of Madame
de Staël, she removed to Lyons, where Monsieur Récamier had many influential relatives. Here
she formed an intimacy with a companion in misfortune, the high-spirited Duchess of Chevreuse,
whose proud refusal to enter into the service of the captive Spanish Queen was the cause of
her exile. "I can be a prisoner," she replied, when the offer was made to her, "but I will
never be a jailer."

Though the society of friends offered Madame Récamier many diversions, she was often a prey
to melancholy. The Duchess D'Abrantes, who saw her here, casually mentions her dejection in
her Memoirs, and Châteaubriand says that the separation from Madame de Staël weighed heavily
upon her spirits. He also alludes to a coolness between the friends, caused by Madame de Staël's
marriage with Monsieur de Rocca. The desire to keep this connection secret induced Madame de
Staël to write to her friend, declining a proposed visit from her, on the plea that she was
about to leave Switzerland. Châteaubriand asserts that Madame Récamier felt this slight severely,
but Madame Lenormant makes no allusion to the circumstance.

At Lyons Madame Récamier met the author, Monsieur Ballanche. He was presented to her by Camille
Jordan, and, in the words of her biographer, "from that moment Monsieur Ballanche belonged
to Madame Récamier." He was the least exacting of any of her friends. All he asked was to devote
his life to her, and to be allowed to worship her. His friends called her his Beatrice. As
he was an extremely awkward and ugly man, the two might have been termed with equal propriety
"Beauty and the Beast." Monsieur Ballanche's face had been frightfully disfigured by an operation,
and though his friends thought that his fine eyes and expression redeemed his appearance, he
was, to strangers, particularly unprepossessing. He was, moreover, very absent-minded. When
he joined Madame Récamier at Rome, she noticed, during an evening walk with him, that he had
no hat. In reply to her questions, he quietly said, "Oh, yes, he had left it at Alexandria."
He had, in fact, forgotten it; and it never occurred to him to replace it by another. Madame
Lenormant relates an anecdote of his second interview with Madame Récamier, which is illustrative
of his simplicity.

"He found her alone, working on embroidery. The conversation at first languished, but soon
became interesting,--for, though Monsieur Ballanche had no chit-chat, he talked extremely well
on subjects which interested him, such as philosophy, morals, politics, and literature. Unfortunately,
his shoes had an odor about them which was very disagreeable to Madame Récamier. It finally
made her faint, and, overcoming with difficulty the embarrassment she felt in speaking of so
prosaic an annoyance, she timidly avowed to him that the smell of his shoes was unpleasant.
Monsieur Ballanche apologized, humbly regretting that she had not spoken before, and then went
out of the room. He returned in a few moments without his shoes, resumed his seat, and continued
the conversation. Other persons came in, and noticing him in this situation, he said, by way
of explanation, 'The smell of my shoes annoyed Madame Récamier, so I left them in the antechamber.'"

After the death of his father, Monsieur Ballanche left Lyons, and passed the rest of his life
in the society of her whom he worshipped with so single-minded a devotion.

Madame Récamier subsequently left Lyons for Italy, and the next new admirer whose attentions
we have to chronicle is Canova. During her stay in Rome he wrote a note to her every morning,
and the heat of the city growing excessive, he invited her to share his lodgings at Albano.
Taking with her her niece and waiting-maid, she became his guest for two months. A Roman artist
painted a picture of this retreat, with Madame Récamier sitting near a window, reading. Canova
sent the picture to her in 1816. When she left Rome for a short absence, Canova modelled two
busts of her from memory, in the hope of giving her a pleasant surprise,--one with the hair
simply arranged, the other with a veil. Madame Récamier was not pleased, and her annoyance
did not escape the penetrating eye of the artist. She tried in vain to efface the unfavorable
impression he had received, but he only half forgave her. He added a crown of olives to the
one with the veil, and when she asked him about it, he replied, "It did not please you, so
I made a Beatrice of it."

Madame Récamier left Rome for Naples when Napoleon's power was on the decline. The sovereigns
Murat and Caroline Bonaparte treated her with marked distinction, especially the Queen, who
was not only gracious, but confidential. Madame Récamier was with Caroline the day that Murat
pledged himself to the allied cause. He returned to the palace in great agitation, and, stating
the case to her without telling her that he had already made his decision, asked what course
he ought to pursue. She replied, "You are a Frenchman, Sire. It is to France that you owe allegiance."
Murat turned pale, and, throwing open the window, showed her the English fleet entering the
harbor, and exclaimed, "I am, then, a traitor!" He threw himself on a couch, burst into tears,
covering his face with his hands. Madame Récamier's candor did not affect their friendly relations.
When the Queen acted as Regent in the absence of her husband, she signed the pardon of a condemned
criminal at her request, and, upon her return to Rome, wrote, begging her to come back to Naples.
She did so, though her stay was necessarily short. Paris was again open to her by the overthrow
of Napoleon, and she hastened to rejoin her friends. Still she was not unmindful of the princess
who had shown her such marks of friendship. She did many kind services for her in Paris, and
after the execution of Murat, when Caroline lived in obscurity as the Countess of Lipona, she
paid her a visit, which cheered the neglected woman whose prosperity had been of such short
duration.

The Restoration was the beginning of a new era in the life of Madame Récamier, one even more
brilliant and animated, if not so thoughtlessly gay as that of her youth. Her husband had,
in a measure, retrieved his fallen fortunes. She was in possession of her mother's property,
able to have a box at the Opera, and to keep her carriage, which was a necessity, as she never
walked in the street. Her exile had made her more famous, while her joy at being restored to
Paris and her friends lent another charm to the seduction of her manners. Her association with
the Montmorencys, who were in high favor with the new court, increased her political influence.
She held nightly receptions after the Opera, and her salon was neutral ground, the resort of
persons of all parties. Paris was full of foreigners of distinction, who were curious to know
a person of so much celebrity, and they swelled the ranks of her admirers. Among them was the
Duke of Wellington, who, if Madame Récamier's vanity did not mislead her, was willing and anxious
to wear her chains. But she never forgave his boastful speech after the Battle of Waterloo.
Remembering her personal dislike of the Emperor, and forgetting that she was a Frenchwoman,
he said to her, on his return to Paris, "Je l'ai bien battu." The next time he called he was
not admitted. The Duke complained to Madame de Staël, and when he next met Madame Récamier
in society treated her with coldness, and devoted himself to a young English lady. They rarely
met afterward, though the Duke came once to the Abbaye-aux-Bois.

Madame Récamier had at this time a much more earnest admirer in Benjamin Constant. As common
friends of Madame de Staël, they had been acquainted for years, and had played together in
private theatricals at Coppet. Still it was not until 1814, when Madame Récamier had an interview
with him in regard to the affairs of the King and Queen of Naples, that the relations between
them assumed a serious aspect. He left her at the end of this interview violently enamored.
According to Madame Lenormant, Benjamin Constant had not the slightest encouragement to justify
his madness, but it is clear from other testimony that Madame Récamier was not free from blame
in respect to him. Sainte-Beuve hints that the subject is unpleasant, and summarily dismisses
it; and Madame Möhl, ever ready to defend Madame Récamier, acknowledges that in this case she
was to blame, and that Madame Récamier thought so herself, and wished Constant's letters to
be published after her death, in order to justify him. She adds, that it was a mistake not
to publish them, as their suppression has given occasion for surmises utterly false. There
is nothing in the "Souvenirs" to explain either the vague hints of Sainte-Beuve or the obscure
allusions of Madame Möhl; and the biographical sketches of Constant throw no light upon the
subject: they are chiefly narratives of his political career.

If we except Châteaubriand, who was more loved than loving, Benjamin Constant stands last on
the list of Madame Récamier's conquests; for, after the author of "Atala" and of the "Genius
of Christianity" crossed her path, we hear of no more flirtations, no more despairing lovers.
Châteaubriand and Madame Récamier first met, familiarly, at the death-bed of Madame de Staël,
whose loss they mutually deplored. It was not, however, until the next year, 1818, when Madame
Récamier had retired to the Abbaye-aux-Bois, that the acquaintance ripened into intimacy. A
second reverse of fortune was the cause of this retirement, to which we shall briefly refer
before entering upon the more complicated subject of this friendship.

New and unfortunate speculations on the part of Monsieur Récamier had not only left him penniless,
but had to some extent involved his wife's fortune, which she had confided to him. In this
emergency, Madame Récamier acted with her usual promptitude and decision. She had two objects
in view in her plans for the future,--economy, and a separation from her husband. An asylum
in the Abbaye-aux-Bois secured to her both advantages. She established her husband and father
in the vicinity of the Convent, and they with Ballanche dined with her every day. From Monsieur
Récamier she exacted a promise to engage in no more speculations, while she supplied his wants.
"She anticipated his needs with a filial affection, and until the last studied to make his
life mild and pleasant,--a singularly easy task on account of his optimism." Monsieur Récamier
had need to be a philosopher. The nominal husband of a beautiful woman, with whom he had shared
his prosperity, he had not only to bear her indifference, but to see her form friendships and
make plans from which he was excluded. When his misfortunes left him a dependent upon her bounty,
he was a mere cipher in her household,--kindly treated, but with a kindness that savored more
of toleration than affection. Monsieur Récamier died at the advanced age of eighty. Shortly
before his death, his wife obtained permission from the Convent to remove him to the Abbaye,
where he was tenderly cared for by her in his last moments.

The retirement forced upon Madame Récamier by her husband's reverses was far from being seclusion.
"La petite cellule" as Châteaubriand called her retreat, was as much frequented as her brilliant
salons in Paris had been, and she was even more highly considered. Châteaubriand visited her
regularly at three o'clock; they passed an hour alone, when other persons favored by him were
admitted. In the evening her door was open to all. She no longer mingled in society, people
came to her, and nothing could be more delightful than her receptions. All parties and all
ranks met there, and her salon gradually became a literary centre and focus. Delphine Gay (Madame
Émile de Girardin) recited her first verses there, Rachel declaimed there, and Lamartine's
"Méditations" were read and applauded there before publication. Among distinguished strangers
who sought admittance to the Abbaye, we notice the names of Humboldt, Sir Humphry Davy, and
Maria Edgeworth. De Tocqueville, Monsieur Ampére, and Sainte-Beuve were frequent visitors.
Peace and serenity reigned there, for Madame Récamier softened asperities and healed dissensions
by the mere magnetism of her presence. "It was Eurydice," said Sainte-Beuve, "playing the part
of Orpheus." But while she was the presiding genius of this varied and brilliant society, Châteaubriand
was the controlling spirit. Everybody deferred to him, if not for his sake, then for the sake
of her whose greatest happiness was to see him pleased and amused.

Madame Récamier has frequently been called cold and heartless. English reviewers have doubted
whether she was capable of any warm, deep attachment. Sainte-Beuve even, with all his insight,
believed that the desire to be loved had satisfied her heart, and that she herself had never
loved. But he formed this opinion before the publication of Madame Récamier's memoirs. Châteaubriand's
letters, together with other corroborating facts, warrant a totally different conclusion. It
is very evident that Madame Récamier loved Châteaubriand with all the strength of a reticent
and constant nature. That he was the only man she did love, we think is also clear. Prince
Augustus captivated her for a time, but her conduct toward him, in contrast with that toward
Châteaubriand, proves that her heart had not then been touched. The one she treated with caprice
and coldness, the other with unvarying consideration and tenderness. There is no reason to
conclude that the Prince ever made her unhappy, while it is certain that Châteaubriand made
her miserable, and a mere friendship, however deep, does not render a woman wretched. This
attachment not only shaped and colored the remainder of Madame Récamier's life, but it threatened
at one time to completely subvert all other interests. She who was so equable, such a perfect
mistress of herself, so careful to give every one due meed of attention, became fitful and
indifferent. Her friends saw the change with alarm, and Montmorency remonstrated bitterly with
her. "I was extremely troubled and ashamed," he writes, "at the sudden change in your manner
toward others and myself. Ah, Madame, the evil that your best friends have been dreading has
made rapid progress in a few weeks! Does not this thought make you tremble? Ah, turn, while
yet there is time, to Him who gives strength to them who pray for it! He can cure all, repair
all. God and a generous heart are all-sufficient. I implore Him, from the bottom of my heart,
to sustain and enlighten you."

Ballanche, equally concerned and jealous, strove to interest her in literature, and urged her
to translate Petrarch. Madame Récamier speedily recovered herself. She listened graciously
to the admonitions of Montmorency, and she consented to undertake Petrarch, but made little
progress in the work. Still, as far as her feelings for Châteaubriand were concerned, the efforts
of her friends were in vain. He occupied the first place in her affections, and she regulated
her time and pursuits to please and accommodate him, though for a long time he but poorly repaid
her devotion. He admired and perhaps loved her, as well as he was capable of loving anybody
but himself, but it was not until disappointments had sobered him that he fully appreciated
her worth. At the time their intimacy commenced he was the pet and favorite of the whole French
nation. "The Genius of Christianity" had been received with acclamations by a people just recovering
from the wild skepticism of the Revolution. The reaction had taken place, the Goddess of Reason
was dethroned, and the burning words and vivid eloquence of Châteaubriand appealed at once
to the heart and the imagination of his countrymen. They did not criticise, they only admired.
Politically he was also a rising man. The world, or at least the French world, expected great
things from the writer of the pamphlet, "De Buonaparte et des Bourbons." His manners were courtly
and distinguished, and women especially flattered and courted him. Their attentions fostered
his natural vanity, and his fancy, if not his heart, wandered from Madame Récamier, and she
knew it. The tables were turned: she who had been so passionately beloved was now to feel some
of the pangs she had all her life been unconsciously inflicting. Wounded and jealous, she stooped
to reproaches. The following extracts from letters addressed to her by Châteaubriand while
he was ambassador at London clearly betray the state of her mind.

    "I will not ask you again for an explanation, since you will not
    give it. I have written you by the last courier a letter which
    ought to content you, if you still love me."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Do not delude yourself with the idea that you can fly from me. I
    will seek you everywhere. But if I go to the Congress, it will be
    an occasion to put you to the proof. I shall see then if you keep
    your promises."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Allons,--I much prefer to understand your folly than to read
    mysterious and angry notes. I comprehend now, or at least I think
    I do. It is apparently that woman of whom the friend of the Queen
    of Sweden has spoken to you. But, tell me, have I the means to
    prevent Vernet, Mademoiselle Levert, who writes me declarations,
    and thirty artistes, men and women, from coming to England in
    order to get money? And if I have been culpable, do you think that
    such fancies can do you the least injury, or take from you
    anything which I have given you? You have been told a thousand
    falsehoods. Herein I recognize my friends. But tranquillize
    yourself: the lady leaves, and will never return to England. But
    perhaps you would like me to remain here on that account: a very
    useless precaution; for, whatever happens, Congress or no
    Congress, I cannot live so long separated from you, and am
    determined to see you at any cost."

The letters from which we quote are very characteristic of their author. While protesting eternal
fidelity, and declaring his intention to renounce the world and live but for Madame Récamier,
he begs her at the same time to use all her influence to get him sent to the approaching Congress
at Vienna as one of the French representatives,--an appointment which would necessarily separate
him still longer from her. "Songez au Congrès" is the refrain to all his poetical expressions
of attachment.

It is to be hoped that Madame Récamier did not perceive the inconsistency of which he was totally
unconscious. Though Châteaubriand was perpetually analyzing himself and his emotions, no man
had less self-knowledge. He was too much absorbed by his "self-study, self-wonder, and self-worship,"
as one of his critics styles his egotism, to be clear-sighted. He had generous impulses, but
no uniform generosity of heart; and while glorying in the few ostentatious sacrifices he made
to pet ideas, he had no perception of the nature of self-sacrifice. Much, therefore, as he
was gratified at the devotion of a woman of Madame Récamier's position and influence, he did
not value it sufficiently to make any sacrifices to secure it, and consequently she was continually
annoyed and distressed. Her life was also embittered by his political differences with Mathieu
de Montmorency, to whom, by means which can scarcely be deemed honorable, he had succeeded
as Minister of Foreign Affairs. The confidential friend of both parties, her position was a
very difficult one; but she was equal to the emergency. She satisfied each, without being false
to, or unmindful of, the interests of either.

But her relations to Châteaubriand were fast becoming intolerable, and she resolved to break
her chains and leave Paris. He regarded this resolution as a mere threat. "No," he wrote, "you
have not bid farewell to all earthly joys. If you go, you will return." She did go, however,
taking with her Ballanche and her adopted daughter, whose delicate health was the ostensible
cause of her departure. What it cost her to leave Paris may well be conjectured, and nothing
is more indicative of her power of self-control than this voluntary withdrawal from a companionship
which fascinated while it tortured her. Châteaubriand sent letters after her full of protestations
and upbraidings; but after a while he wrote less frequently, and for a year they ceased to
correspond. To a friend who urged her to return Madame Récamier wrote,--"If I return at present
to Paris, I shall again meet with the agitations that induced me to leave it. If Monsieur Châteaubriand
were unhappy on my account, I should be grieved; if he were not, I should have another trouble,
which I am determined henceforth to avoid. I find here diversion in art, and a support in religion
which shall shelter me from all these storms. It is painful to me to remain absent six months
longer from my friends; but it is better to make this sacrifice, and I confess to you that
I feel it to be necessary."

There was much to make a stay in Italy attractive to Madame Récamier, if she could have forgotten
Châteaubriand, Her old admirer, the Duc de Laval, was ambassador at Rome, and put his horses
and servants at her disposal. She renewed her acquaintance with the celebrated Duchess of Devonshire,
(Lady Elizabeth Foster,) whose career was quite as singular as her own, while it was more open
to reproach. The Duchess was a liberal patron of the fine arts, and the devoted friend of Cardinal
Gonsalvi, from the shock of whose death she never recovered. Madame Récamier also found at
Rome the Duchess of Saint-Leu, whom she had slightly known when she was Queen of Holland. For
political reasons it was unwise for them to visit openly, so they contrived private and romantic
interviews. Their friendship seems to have been close and sincere. Subsequently, Madame Récamier
was able, through her political influence, to serve Hortense in many ways. She also took an
interest in her son Louis Napoleon, and visited him in prison after his unsuccessful attempt
at Strasbourg, which kindness he afterwards acknowledged in several notes preserved by Madame
Lenormant.

But while accepting all the diversions offered her by the pleasant society at, Rome, Madame
Récamier was not unmindful of Châteaubriand. She ordered from the artist Tenerani a bas-relief,
the subject to be taken from Châteaubriand's poem of "The Martyrs." She wrote constantly to
her friends in Paris for intelligence respecting him, and watched his course from afar with
interest and anxiety. It was not one to tranquillize her. He had quarrelled with the President
of the Council, Villèle; and being also personally disliked by the King, he was peremptorily
dismissed, and he bore this disgrace with neither dignity nor composure. Turning his pen against
the government, he did as much by his persistent savage opposition, clothed as it was in the
language of superb invective, to bring about the final overthrow of the elder Bourbon dynasty,
as either the stupid arrogance of Charles X. or the dogged tyranny of Polignac. Yet no man
was more concerned and disgusted than he was at the result of the Revolution of 1830. So far
true to his convictions, he refused office under Louis Philippe, priding himself greatly on
his allegiance to the exiled princes, when neither his loyalty nor his services could be of
any use. The truth is, that, though Châteaubriand was fond of meddling and making a noise,
he had none of the fundamental qualities of a statesman. By the inspiration of his genius,
he could seize the right moment for making a telling speech, or he could promulgate in a pamphlet
a striking truth, calculated to electrify and convince. But he could not be calmly deliberate.
Always enthusiastic, he was never temperate. He was the slave of his partialities and prejudices.
Harriet Martineau, who for keen analysis and nice discrimination of character has few equals
among historians, characterizes him as "the wordy Châteaubriand," and Guizot says of him, "It
was his illusion to think himself the equal of the most consummate statesmen, and his soul
was filled with bitterness because men would not admit him to be the rival of Napoleon as well
as of Milton." It was this bitterness with which Madame Récamier had to contend, for his literary
successes did not console him for his political disappointments, and his temper, never very
equable, was now more variable and uncertain.

After an absence of eighteen months she returned to Paris. She apprised Châteaubriand of her
arrival by a note. He came immediately to see her, and was rapturous with delight. No word
of reproach passed between them, and he fell at once into his old habits. From this time his
behavior was respectful and devoted. Absence and his disappointments had taught him the inestimable
value of such a friend. She daily became more and more necessary to him. After his resignation
of the Roman embassy in 1829, which had been secured to him through her instrumentality, he
no longer engaged actively in politics, and, deprived of the stimulus of ambition, he looked
to her for excitement. She encouraged his literary exertions, drew him out from his fits of
depression, and soothed his wounded self-love. This was no light task; for Châteaubriand's
self-complacency was not of that imperturbable sort which, however intolerable to others, has
at least the merit of keeping its possessor content and tranquil. With him it partook more
of the nature of egotism than of self-conceit, and it therefore made him always restless and
continually dissatisfied. But no effort was too great for Madame Récamier's devotion. Her friends
looked upon her sacrifices with feelings of mingled regret and admiration, but she herself
was unconscious of them. They were simply a labor of love; and much as her tranquillity must
have been disturbed at times by the caprices and exactions of this moody, melancholy man, she
was probably happy in being allowed to sacrifice herself. Of the success of her efforts Sainte-Beuve
thus gracefully speaks:--"Madame de Maintenon was never more ingenious in amusing Louis XIV.
than Madame Récamier in interesting Châteaubriand. 'I have always remarked,' said Boileau,
on returning from Versailles, 'that, when the conversation does not turn on himself, the King
directly gets tired, and is either ready to yawn or to go away.' Every great poet, when he
is growing old, is a little like Louis XIV. in this respect. Madame Récamier had each day a
thousand pleasant contrivances to excite and flatter him. She assembled from all quarters friends
for him,--new admirers. She chained us all to the feet of her idol with links of gold."

One of her most successful efforts in amusing him was the reading of "Les Mémoires d'Outre-Tombe"
to a select and admiring audience at the Abbaye. He first read them in private to Madame Récamier,
who passed judgment upon them, and they were then read aloud by M. Charles Lenormant. This
device worked like a charm; everybody applauded, and the author was content. The personal interest
attached to the chief parties concerned, no doubt, made these readings very delightful. But
it would now be impossible for any reader to be enthusiastic about the Memoirs themselves.
Out of France it would be difficult to find a more egotistical piece of self-portraiture. Châteaubriand
is not quite so ostentatious in his egotism as the Prince de Ligne, who headed the chapters
in his "Mémoires et Mélanges," "De moi pendant le jour," "De moi pendant la nuit," "De moi
encore," "Mémoirs pour mon coeur"; still he parades himself on every possible occasion, and
not always to his own advantage. His conduct in passing himself off as a single man in an English
family who were kind to him during his exile, thereby engaging the daughter's affections, is
entirely inexcusable. That a person of Madame Récamier's good judgment did not perceive the
discredit that must attach to such revelations is only to be accounted for by supposing her
blind to Châteaubriand's follies. But with all her partiality, it is still surprising that
she should have given her sanction to his deliberate and cold analysis of the character of
his parents, and his equally heartless and selfish reflections on his marriage.

Châteaubriand married simply to please his sisters, feeling that he "had none of the qualifications
of a husband," and for years he seemed entirely oblivious of his wife's existence. After he
gave up his wandering life, and became distinguished, he treated her with more consideration.
Madame de Châteaubriand was a pretty, delicate woman, of quick natural intelligence. M. Danielo,
Châteaubriand's secretary, has written an interesting sketch of her, which is affixed to her
husband's memoirs. She was a person of eccentric habits, but of a warm heart and lively sensibilities,
and was devoted to her religious duties and the Infirmary of Maria Theresa. She professed a
great contempt for literature, and asserted that she had never read a line of her husband's
works; but this was regarded as an affectation. Madame de Châteaubriand was not an amiable
person, but very frank and sincere. She often reproached herself for her faults and love of
contradiction. Though she appears to have loved her husband, she was not blind to his weaknesses,
and he was afraid of her sallies. So vain and sensitive a man could not feel comfortable in
the society of a woman of her keen penetration, and her wit was not always tempered by discretion.
Madame Récamier gained by the contrast. She believed in him, and "there are few things so pleasant,"
says a writer in Fraser, "as to have a woman at hand that believes in you." Madame Récamier's
insight never disturbed Châteaubriand, for it was of the heart, not of the intellect. It was
not a critical analysis that probes and dissects, but a sympathy that cheered and tranquillized.
There could be but little in common between two such women, though they were on friendly terms;
and when Châteaubriand left his wife in Paris, he always commended her to Madame Récamier's
care. On one occasion he writes,--"I must again request you to go and see Madame de Châteaubriand,
who complains that she has not seen you. What would you have? Since you have become associated
in my life, it is necessary to share it fully."

There is nothing to indicate Madame Récamier's sentiments toward the wife of her friend, except
a significant passage in one of Châteaubriand's letters:--"Your judgments are very severe on
the Rue du Bac.[D] But think of the difference of habit. If you look upon her occupations as
trifles, she may on her side think the same with regard to yours. It is only necessary to change
the point of view."

Madame de Châteaubriand died in February, 1847, from the effects of dieting. A few months after
her death her husband offered himself in marriage to Madame Récamier, who rejected him. "Why
should we marry?" she said. "There can be no impropriety in my taking care of you at our age.
If you find solitude oppressive, I am willing to live with you. The world, I am confident,
will do justice to the purity of our friendship, and sanction all my efforts to render your
old age comfortable and happy. If we were younger, I would not hesitate,--I would accept with
joy the right to consecrate my life to you. Tears and blindness have given me that right. Let
us change nothing."

We have heard this refusal of Madame Récamier's urged as a proof that she did not love Châteaubriand;
but when we consider their respective ages at the time, this objection has little weight. Châteaubriand
was seventy-nine; Madame Récamier seventy. The former was tottering on the brink of the grave.
He had lost the use of his limbs, and his mind was visibly failing. Madame Récamier was keenly
sensible of the decay of his faculties, though she succeeded so well in concealing the fact
from others that few of the habitual visitors at the Abbaye recognized its extent. The reason
she gave to her friends for refusing him was undoubtedly the true one. She said that his daily
visit to her was his only diversion, and he would lose that, if she married him.

The record of these last years of Madame Récamier's life is inexpressibly touching, telling
as it does of self-denial, patient suffering, and silent devotion. To avert the blindness which
was gradually stealing upon her, she submitted to an operation, which might have been successful,
had she obeyed the injunctions of her physicians. But Ballanche lay dying in the opposite house,
and, true to the noble instincts of her heart, she could not let the friend who had loved her
so long and well die alone. She crossed the street, and took her place by his bedside, thus
sealing her own fate, for all hopes of recovering her sight were lost. Her health also was
extremely delicate; but, much as she needed quiet and repose, she kept up her relations with
society and held her receptions for Châteaubriand's sake. But both their lives were fast approaching
to a close. Châteaubriand died on the 4th of July, 1848. For some time before his death he
was speechless, but kept his dying eyes fixed upon Madame Récamier. She could not see him,
and this dark, dreary silence filled her soul with despair.

Madame Récamier shed no tears over her loss, and uttered no lamentations. She received the
condolences of her friends with gratitude, and strove to interest herself in their pursuits.
But a deadly paleness, which never left her, spread over her face, and "the sad smile on her
lips was heart-breaking." Sightless and sad, it was time for her to die. Madame de Staël and
Montmorency, the friends of her youth, had long since departed. Ballanche was gone, and now
Châteaubriand. She survived the latter only eleven months. Stricken with cholera the following
summer, her illness was short, but severe, and her last words to Madame Lenormant, who bent
over her, were, "Nous nous reverrons,--nous nous reverrons."

So impalpable was the attraction that brought the world to the feet of Madame Récamier that
it is interesting to analyze it. It did not lie in her beauty and wealth alone; for she lost
the one, while time blighted the other. Nor was it due to power of will; for she was not great
intellectually. And had she been a person of strong convictions, she would never have been
so universally popular. As it was, she pleased equally persons of every shade of opinion and
principle. Her instinctive coquetry can partly account for her sway over men, but not over
women. What, then, was the secret of her influence? It lay in the subtile power of a marvellous
tact. This tact had its roots deep in her nature. It was part and parcel of herself, the distinguishing
trait in a rare combination of qualities. Though nurtured and ripened by experience, it was
not the offspring of art. It was an effect, not a cause,--not simply the result of an intense
desire to please, regulated by a fine intuitive perception, but of higher, finer characteristics,
such as natural sweetness of temper, kindness of heart, and forgetfulness of self. Her successes
were the triumph of impulse rather than of design. In order to please she did not study character,
she divined it. Keenly alive to outward influences, and losing in part her own personality
when coming in contact with that of others, she readily adapted herself to their moods,--and
her apprehension was quick, if not profound. It is always gratifying to feel one's self understood,
and every person who talked with Madame Récamier enjoyed this pleasant consciousness. No one
felt a humiliating sense of inferiority in her presence, and this was owing as much to the
character of her intellect as to her tact. Partial friends detected genius in her conversation
and letters, and tried to excite her to literary effort; but other and stronger evidence forces
us to look upon such praise as mere delicate flattery. A woman more beautiful than gifted was
far more likely to be gratified by a compliment to her intellect than to her personal charms,
as Madame de Staël was more delighted at an allusion to the beauty of her neck and arms than
to the merits of "L'Allemagne" or "Corinne." But if Madame Récamier did not possess genius,
she had unerring instincts which stood her in lieu of it, and her mind, if not original, was
appreciative. The genuine admiration she felt for her literary friends stimulated as well as
gratified them. She drew them out, and, dazzled by their own brilliancy, they gave her credit
for thoughts which were in reality their own. To this faculty of intelligent appreciation was
joined another still more captivating. She was a good listener. "Bien écouter c'est presque
répondre," quotes Jean Paul from Marivaux, and Sainte-Beuve said of Madame Récamier that she
listened "avec séduction." She was also an extremely indulgent and charitable person, and was
severe neither on the faults nor on the foibles of others. "No one knew so well as she how
to spread balm on the wounds that are never acknowledged, how to calm and exorcise the bitterness
of rivalry or literary animosity. For moral chagrins and imaginary sorrows, which are so intense
in some natures, she was, par excellence, the Sister of Charity." The repose of her manner
made this sympathy more effective. Hers was not a stormy nature, but calm and equable. If she
had emotion to master, it was mastered in secret, and not a ripple on the surface betrayed
the agitation beneath. She had no nervous likes or dislikes, no changeful humors, few unequal
moods. She did not sparkle and then die out. The fire was always kindled on the hearth, the
lamp serenely burning. Some women charm by their mutability; she attracted by her uniformity.
But in her uniformity there was no monotony. Like the continuous murmur of a brook, it gladdened
as well as soothed.

It was probably these sweet womanly qualities, together with the meekness with which she bore
her honors, that endeared her to her feminine friends. All her life had been a series of triumphs,
which were not won by any conscious effort on her part, but were spontaneous gifts of fortune,--

    "As though a shower of fairy wreaths
    Had fallen upon her from the sky."

Yet her manner was entirely free from pretension or self-assertion.

It is not one of the least remarkable things about Madame Récamier, that one who had been so
petted from childhood, so exposed to pernicious influences, should have continued unspoiled
by adulation, uncorrupted by example. The gay life she led was calculated to make her selfish
and arrogant, yet she was to an eminent degree self-sacrificing and gentle. Constant in her
affections, she never lost a friend through waywardness, or alienated any by indifference.
It has been prettily said of her, that she brought the art of friendship to perfection. Coquettish
she was,--seldom capricious. Her coquetry was owing more to an instinctive desire to please
than to any systematic attempt to swell the list of her conquests. She had received the gift
of fascination at her birth: and can a woman be fascinating who has not a touch of coquetry?
It was as natural in Madame Récamier to charm as it was to breathe. It was a necessity of her
nature, which her unnatural position developed and fostered to a reprehensible extent. But
while she permitted herself to be loved, and rejoiced in the consciousness of this power, she
never carried her flirtations so far as to lose her own self-respect or the respect of her
admirers. She was ever dignified and circumspect, though gracious and captivating. To most
of her lovers, therefore, she was more a goddess whom they worshipped than a woman whom they
loved. Ballanche compared her to the solitary phoenix, nourished by perfumes, and living in
the purest regions of the air,--

    "Who sings to the last his own death-lay,
    And in music and perfume dies away."

It is a singular fact, that the men who began by loving her passionately usually ended by becoming
her true friends. Still there were exceptions to this rule, exceptions which her biographer
does not care to dwell upon, but which the more candid Sainte-Beuve acknowledges, giving as
his authority Madame Récamier, who was fond of talking over the past with her new friends.
"'C'est une manière,' disait-elle, 'de mettre du passé devant l'amitié.'" The subtile and piquant
critic cannot resist saying, in regard to these reminiscences, that "elle se souvenait avec
goût." Still, pleasant as her recollections were, she often looked back self-reproachfully
upon passages of her youth; and Sainte-Beuve, though he calls her coquetry "une coquetterie
angelique," recognizes it as a blemish. "She, who was so good, brought sorrow to many hearts,
not only to indignant and soured men, but to poor feminine rivals, whom she sacrificed and
wounded without knowing it. It is the dark side of her life, which she lived to comprehend."

This "dark side" suggests itself. It is impossible to read the record of Madame Récamier's
conquests without thinking of women slighted and neglected for her sake. The greater number
of her admirers were married men. That their wives did not hate this all-conquering woman is
strange indeed; that they witnessed her triumphs unmoved is scarcely credible. For, while French
society allows great laxity in such matters, and a domestic husband, as we understand the term,
is a rarity, still French wives, we imagine, differ very little from other women in wishing
to be considered a first object. Public desertion is rarely relished even where there is no
affection to be wounded, for it is not necessary to love to be jealous. But whatever heart-aches
and jealousies were caused by Madame Récamier's conquests, they do not appear on the surface.
In her voluminous correspondence we find tender letters from husbands side by side with friendly
notes from their wives. Her biographer parades the latter with some ostentation, as a proof
of the friendship these women entertained for Madame Récamier. That they respected her is evident;
that they loved her is not so apparent. Mere complimentary notes prove but little. He must
be but a superficial judge of life who draws decided conclusions simply from appearances. Madame
Lucien Bonaparte might invite Madame Récamier to her fêtes; but the consciousness that all
her world knew that her husband was épris with her beautiful guest did not tend to make her
cordial at heart. Madame Moreau, young and lovely, might visit her intimately, and even cherish
friendship for her; but she could scarcely be an indifferent spectator, when the great General
demanded a white ribbon from her friend's dress as a favor, and afterward wrote to her that
he had worn it in every battle, and that it had been the talisman that led him on to victory.
Nor is it probable that Madame de Montmorency and Madame de Châteaubriand, unloved wives, saw
without a pang another woman possess the influence which they exerted in vain. But, if they
suffered, it was in secret; and, moreover, they did justice to the character of their rival.
Madame Récamier's reputation was compromised neither in their eyes nor in the eyes of the world.
Society is seldom just to any woman whose career in life is exceptional; but to her it was
not only just, but indulgent. When we reflect upon her peculiar position, so exposed to injurious
suspicions, the doubtful reputation of some of her associates, the character for gallantry
possessed by many of her avowed admirers, it seems scarcely possible that she should have escaped
calumny. The few scandals caused by some of her early indiscretions were soon dissipated, and
she lived down all unpleasant rumors. She, indeed, seemed to possess some talisman, as potent
as the magic ring that bewitched King Charlemagne, by whose spell she disarmed envy and silenced
detraction. This attaching power she exercised on every person who came within the sphere of
her influence. Even the gossiping Duchess D'Abrantes has only words of respectful admiration
for her. The preconceived prejudices of Madame Swetchine, whom Miss Muloch numbers among her
"Good Women," vanished at a first interview. She wrote to her,--"I found myself a captive before
I dreamt of defending myself. I yielded at once to that penetrating and undefinable charm which
you exert even over those persons to whom you are indifferent." Madame de Genlis, equally prejudiced,
was alike subdued. She made Madame Récamier the heroine of a novel, and addressed letters to
her full of affectionate admiration and extravagant flattery. "You are one of the phenomena
of the age," she writes, "and certainly the most amiable.... You can look back upon the past
without remorse. At any age this is the most beautiful of privileges, but at our time of life
it is invaluable." Madame Lenormant, even more enthusiastic, calls her a saint, which she certainly
was not, but a gracious woman of the world. Some acts of her life it is impossible to defend.
They tarnish the lustre of an otherwise irreproachable career. Still, when we think of the
low tone of morals prevalent in her youth, together with her many and great temptations, it
is surprising that she should have preserved her purity of heart, and earned the respect and
love of the best and wisest of her contemporaries. No woman has ever received more universal
and uniform homage, or has been more deeply lamented. Her death left a void in French society
that has never been filled. The salon, which, from its origin in the seventeenth century, was
so vital an element in Paris life, no longer exists. That of the Hôtel de Rambouillet was the
first; that of the Abbaye-aux-Bois the last. "On se réunit encore, on donne des fêtes splendides,
on ne cause plus."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WELLFLEET OYSTERMAN.

Having walked about eight miles since we struck the beach, and passed the boundary between
Wellfleet and Truro, a stone post in the sand,--for even this sand comes under the jurisdiction
of one town or another,--we turned inland over barren hills and valleys, whither the sea, for
some reason, did not follow us, and, tracing up a hollow, discovered two or three sober-looking
houses within half a mile, uncommonly near the eastern coast. Their garrets were apparently
so full of chambers that their roofs could hardly lie down straight, and we did not doubt that
there was room for us there. Houses near the sea are generally low and broad. These were a
story and a half high; but if you merely counted the windows in their gable-ends, you would
think that there were many stories more, or, at any rate, that the half-story was the only
one thought worthy of being illustrated. The great number of windows in the ends of the houses,
and their irregularity in size and position, here and elsewhere on the Cape, struck us agreeably,--as
if each of the various occupants who had their cunabula behind had punched a hole where his
necessities required it, and according to his size and stature, without regard to outside effect.
There were windows for the grown folks, and windows for the children,--three or four apiece:
as a certain man had a large hole cut in his barn-door for the cat, and another smaller one
for the kitten. Sometimes they were so low under the eaves that I thought they must have perforated
the plate-beam for another apartment, and I noticed some which were triangular, to fit that
part more exactly. The ends of the houses had thus as many muzzles as a revolver; and if the
inhabitants have the same habit of staring out of the windows that some of our neighbors have,
a traveller must stand a small chance with them.

Generally, the old-fashioned and unpainted houses on the Cape looked more comfortable, as well
as picturesque, than the modern and more pretending ones, which were less in harmony with the
scenery, and less firmly planted.

These houses were on the shores of a chain of ponds, seven in number, the source of a small
stream called Herring River, which empties into the Bay. There are many Herring Rivers on the
Cape: they will, perhaps, be more numerous than herrings soon. We knocked at the door of the
first house, but its inhabitants were all gone away. In the mean while we saw the occupants
of the next one looking out of the window at us, and before we reached it an old woman came
out and fastened the door of her bulkhead, and went in again. Nevertheless, we did not hesitate
to knock at her door, when a grizzly-looking man appeared, whom we took to be sixty or seventy
years old. He asked us, at first, suspiciously, where we were from, and what our business was;
to which we returned plain answers.

"How far is Concord from Boston?" he inquired.

"Twenty miles by railroad."

"Twenty miles by railroad," he repeated.

"Didn't you ever hear of Concord of Revolutionary fame?"

"Didn't I ever hear of Concord? Why, I heard the guns fire at the Battle of Bunker Hill." (They
hear the sound of heavy cannon across the Bay.) "I am almost ninety: I am eighty-eight year
old. I was fourteen year old at the time of Concord Fight,--and where were you then?"

We were obliged to confess that we were not in the fight.

"Well, walk in, we'll leave it to the women," said he.

So we walked in, surprised, and sat down, an old woman taking our hats and bundles, and the
old man continued, drawing up to the large, old-fashioned fireplace,--

"I am a poor good-for-nothing crittur, as Isaiah says; I am all broken down this year. I am
under petticoat-government here."

The family consisted of the old man, his wife, and his daughter, who appeared nearly as old
as her mother,--a fool, her son, (a brutish-looking, middle-aged man, with a prominent lower
face, who was standing by the hearth when we entered, but immediately went out,) and a little
boy of ten.

While my companion talked with the women, I talked to the old man. They said that he was old
and foolish, but he was evidently too knowing for them.

"These women," said he to me, "are both of them poor good-for-nothing critturs. This one is
my wife. I married her sixty-four years ago. She is eighty-four years old, and as deaf as an
adder, and the other is not much better."

He thought well of the Bible,--or at least he spoke well, and did not think ill, of it, for
that would not have been prudent for a man of his age. He said that he had read it attentively
for many years, and he had much of it at his tongue's end. He seemed deeply impressed with
a sense of his own nothingness, and would repeatedly exclaim,--

"I am a nothing. What I gather from my Bible is just this: that man is a poor good-for-nothing
crittur, and everything is just as God sees fit and disposes."

"May I ask your name?" I said.

"Yes," he answered,--"I am not ashamed to tell my name. My name is ----. My great-grandfather
came over from England and settled here."

He was an old Wellfleet oysterman, who had acquired a competency in that business, and had
sons still engaged in it.

Nearly all the oyster-shops and stands in Massachusetts, I am told, are supplied and kept by
natives of Wellfleet, and a part of this town is still called Billingsgate, from the oysters
having been formerly planted there; but the native oysters are said to have died in 1770. Various
causes are assigned for this, such as a ground frost, the carcasses of black-fish kept to rot
in the harbor, and the like; but the most common account of the matter is,--and I find that
a similar superstition with regard to the disappearance of fishes exists almost everywhere,--that,
when Wellfleet began to quarrel with the neighboring towns about the right to gather them,
yellow specks appeared in them, and Providence caused them to disappear. A few years ago sixty
thousand bushels were annually brought from the South and planted in the harbor of Wellfleet
till they attained "the proper relish of Billingsgate"; but now they are imported commonly
full-grown, and laid down near their markets, at Boston and elsewhere, where the water, being
a mixture of salt and fresh, suits them better. The business was said to be still good and
improving.

The old man said that the oysters were liable to freeze in the winter, if planted too high;
but if it were not "so cold as to strain their eyes," they were not injured. The inhabitants
of New Brunswick have noticed that "ice will not form over an oyster-bed, unless the cold is
very intense indeed; and when the bays are frozen over, the oyster-beds are easily discovered
by the water above them remaining unfrozen, or, as the French residents say, degèle." Our host
said that they kept them in cellars all winter.

"Without anything to eat or drink?" I asked.

"Without anything to eat or drink," he answered.

"Can the oysters move?"

"Just as much as my shoe."

But when I caught him saying that they "bedded themselves down in the sand, flat side up, round
side down," I told him that my shoe could not do that, without the aid of my foot in it; at
which he said that they merely settled down as they grew; if put down in a square, they would
be found so; but the clam could move quite fast. I have since been told by oystermen of Long
Island, where the oyster is still indigenous and abundant, that they are found in large masses
attached to the parent in their midst, and are so taken up with their tongs; in which case,
they say, the age of the young proves that there could have been no motion for five or six
years at least. And Buckland, in his "Curiosities of Natural History," (page 50,) says,--"An
oyster, who has once taken up his position and fixed himself when quite young, can never make
a change. Oysters, nevertheless, that have not fixed themselves, but remain loose at the bottom
of the sea, have the power of locomotion; they open their shells to their fullest extent, and
then suddenly contracting them, the expulsion of the water forwards gives a motion backwards.
A fisherman at Guernsey told me that he had frequently seen oysters moving in this way."

Some still entertain the question whether the oyster was indigenous in Massachusetts Bay, and
whether Wellfleet Harbor was a natural habitat of this fish; but, to say nothing of the testimony
of old oystermen, which, I think, is quite conclusive, though the native oyster may now be
extinct there, I saw that their shells, opened by the Indians, were strewn all over the Cape.
Indeed, the Cape was at first thickly settled by Indians on account of the abundance of these
and other fish. We saw many traces of their occupancy, after this, in Truro, near Great Hollow,
and at High-Head, near East-Harbor River,--oysters, clams, cockles, and other shells, mingled
with ashes and the bones of deer and other quadrupeds. I picked up half a dozen arrow-heads,
and in an hour or two could have filled my pockets with them. The Indians lived about the edges
of the swamps, then probably in some instances ponds, for shelter and water. Moreover, Champlain,
in the edition of his "Voyages" printed in 1613, says that in the year 1606 he and Poitrincourt
explored a harbor (Barnstable Harbor?) in the southerly part of what is now called Massachusetts
Bay, in latitude 42°, about five leagues south, one point west of Cap Blanc, (Cape Cod,) and
there they found many good oysters, and they named it Le Port aux Huistres (Oyster-Harbor).
In one edition of his map, (1632,) the "R. aux Escailles" is drawn emptying into the same part
of the Bay, and on the map "Novi Belgii" in Ogilby's "America," (1670,) the words "Port aux
Huistres" are set against the same place. Also William Wood, who left New England in 1633,
speaks, in his "New England's Prospect," published in 1634, of "a great oyster-bank" in Charles
River, and of another in the Mystic, each of which obstructed the navigation. "The oysters,"
he says, "be great ones, in form of a shoe-horn; some be a foot long; these breed on certain
banks that are bare every spring-tide. This fish without the shell is so big that it must admit
of a division before you can well get it into your mouth." Oysters are still found there. (See,
also, Thomas Morton's "New English Canaan," page 90.)

Our host told us that the sea-clam, or hen, was not easily obtained; it was raked up, but never
on the Atlantic side, only cast ashore there in small quantities in storms. The fisherman sometimes
wades in water several feet deep, and thrusts a pointed stick into the sand before him. When
this enters between the valves of a clam, he closes them on it, and is drawn out. The clam
has been known to catch and hold coot and teal which were preying on it. I chanced to be on
the bank of the Acushnet at New Bedford one day, watching some ducks, when a man informed me,
that, having let out his young ducks to seek their food amid the samphire (Salicornia) and
other weeds along the river-side at low tide that morning, at length he noticed that one remained
stationary amid the weeds, something preventing it from following the others, and on going
to it he found its foot tightly shut in a quahaug'a shell. He took up both together, carried
them home, and his wife, opening the shell with a knife, released the duck and cooked the quahaug.
The old man said that the great clams were good to eat, but that they always took out a certain
part, which was poisonous, before cooking them. "People said it would kill a cat." I did not
tell him that I had eaten a large one entire that afternoon, but began to think that I was
tougher than a cat. He stated that peddlers came round there, and sometimes tried to sell the
women-folks a skimmer, but he told them that their women had got a better skimmer than they
could make, in the shell of their clams; it was shaped just right for this purpose. They call
them "skim-alls" in some places. He also said that the sun-squawl was poisonous to handle,
and when the sailors came across it, they did not meddle with it, but hove it out of their
way. I told him that I had handled it that afternoon, and had felt no ill effects as yet. But
he said it made the hands itch, especially if they had previously been scratched,--or if I
put it into my bosom, I should find out what it was.

He informed us that ice never formed on the back side of the Cape, or not more than once in
a century, and but little snow lay there, it being either absorbed or blown or washed away.
Sometimes in winter, when the tide was down, the beach was frozen, and afforded a hard road
up the back side for some thirty miles, as smooth as a floor. One winter, when he was a boy,
he and his father "took right out into the back side before daylight, and walked to Provincetown
and back to dinner."

When I asked what they did with all that barren-looking land, where I saw so few cultivated
fields,--

"Nothing," he said.

"Then why fence your fields?"

"To keep the sand from blowing and covering up the whole."

"The yellow sand," said he, "has some life in it, but the white little or none."

When, in answer to his questions, I told him that I was a surveyor, he said that those who
surveyed his farm were accustomed, where the ground was uneven, to loop up each chain as high
as their elbows; that was the allowance they made, and he wished to know if I could tell him
why they did not come out according to his deed, or twice alike. He seemed to have more respect
for surveyors of the old school, which I did not wonder at. "King George the Third," said he,
"laid out a road four rods wide and straight the whole length of the Cape"; but where it was
now he could not tell.

This story of the surveyors reminded me of a Long-Islander, who once, when I had made ready
to jump from the bow of his boat to the shore, and he thought that I underrated the distance
and would fall short,--though I found afterward that he judged of the elasticity of my joints
by his own,--told me, that, when he came to a brook which he wanted to get over, he held up
one leg, and then, if his foot appeared to cover any part of the opposite bank, he knew that
he could jump it. "Why," I told him, "to say nothing of the Mississippi, and other small watery
streams, I could blot out a star with my foot, but I would not engage to jump that distance,"
and asked how he knew when he had got his leg at the right elevation. But he regarded his legs
as no less accurate than a pair of screw-dividers or an ordinary quadrant, and appeared to
have a painful recollection of every degree and minute in the arc which they described; and
he would have had me believe that there was a kind of hitch in his hip-joint which answered
the purpose. I suggested that he should connect his two ankles by a string of the proper length,
which should be the chord of an arc measuring his jumping ability on horizontal surfaces,--assuming
one leg to be a perpendicular to the plane of the horizon, which, however, may have been too
bold an assumption in this case. Nevertheless, this was a kind of geometry in the legs which
it interested me to hear of.

Our host took pleasure in telling us the names of the ponds, most of which we could see from
his windows, and making us repeat them after him, to see if we had got them right. They were
Gull Pond, (the largest and a very handsome one, clear and deep, and more than a mile in circumference,)
Newcomb's, Swett's, Slough, Horse-Leech, Round, and Herring Ponds,--all connected at high-water,
if I do not mistake. The coast-surveyors had come to him for their names, and he told them
of one which they had not detected. He said that they were not so high as formerly. There was
an earthquake about four years before he was born, which cracked the pans of the ponds, which
were of iron, and caused them to settle. I did not remember to have read of this. Innumerable
gulls used to resort to them; but the large gulls were now very scarce, for, as he said, the
English robbed their nests far in the North, where they breed. He remembered well when gulls
were taken in the gull-house, and when small birds were killed by means of a frying-pan and
fire at night. His father once lost a valuable horse from this cause. A party from Wellfleet
having lighted their fire for this purpose, one dark night, on Billingsgate Island, twenty
horses which were pastured there, and this colt among them, being frightened by it, and endeavoring
in the dark to cross the passage which separated them from the neighboring beach, and which
was then fordable at low tide, were all swept out to sea and drowned. I observed that many
horses were still turned out to pasture all summer on the islands and beaches in Wellfleet,
Eastham, and Orleans, as a kind of common. He also described the killing of what he called
"wild hens" here, after they had gone to roost in the woods, when he was a boy. Perhaps they
were "Prairie hens" (pinnated grouse).

He liked the beach pea, (Lathyrus maritimus,) cooked green, as well as the cultivated. He had
seen them growing very abundantly in Newfoundland, where also the inhabitants ate them, but
he had never been able to obtain any ripe for seed. We read, under the head of Chatham, that,
"in 1555, during a time of great scarcity, the people about Orford, in Sussex (England) were
preserved from perishing by eating the seeds of this plant, which grew there in great abundance
on the sea-coast. Cows, horses, sheep, and goats eat it." But the writer who quoted this could
not learn that they had ever been used in Barnstable County.

He had been a voyager, then?

Oh, he had been about the world in his day. He once considered himself a pilot for all our
coast; but now, they had changed the names so, he might be bothered.

He gave us to taste what he called the Summer Sweeting, a pleasant apple which he raised, and
frequently grafted from, but had never seen growing elsewhere, except once,--three trees on
Newfoundland, or at the Bay of Chaleur, I forget which, as he was sailing by. He was sure that
he could tell the tree at a distance.

At length the fool, whom my companion called the wizard, came in, muttering between his teeth,
"Damn book-peddlers,--all the time talking about books. Better do something. Damn 'em, I'll
shoot 'em. Got a doctor down here. Damn him, I'll get a gun and shoot him"; never once holding
up his head. Whereat the old man stood up and said in a loud voice, as if he were accustomed
to command, and this was not the first time he had been obliged to exert his authority there,--"John,
go sit down, mind your business,--we've heard you talk before,--precious little you'll do,--your
bark is worse than your bite." But, without minding, John muttered the same gibberish over
again, and then sat down at the table which the old folks had left. He ate all there was on
it, and then turned to the apples which his aged mother was paring, that she might give her
guests some apple-sauce for breakfast; but she drew them away, and sent him off.

When I approached this house the next summer, over the desolate hills between it and the shore,
which are worthy to have been the birthplace of Ossian, I saw the wizard in the midst of a
cornfield on the hillside, but, as usual, he loomed so strangely that I mistook him for a scarecrow.

This was the merriest old man that we had ever seen, and one of the best-preserved. His style
of conversation was coarse and plain enough to have suited Rabelais. He would have made a good
Panurge. Or rather he was a sober Silenus, and we were the boys Chromis and Mnasilus who listened
to his story.

    "Not by Hæmonian hills the Thracian bard,
    Nor awful Phoebus was on Pindus heard
    With deeper silence or with more regard."

There was a strange mingling of past and present in his conversation, for he had lived under
King George, and might have remembered when Napoleon and the moderns generally were born. He
said that one day, when the troubles between the Colonies and the mother-country first broke
out, as he, a boy of fifteen, was pitching hay out of a cart, one Doane, an old Tory, who was
talking with his father, a good Whig, said to him, "Why, Uncle Bill, you might as well undertake
to pitch that pond into the ocean with a pitchfork as for the Colonies to undertake to gain
their independence." He remembered well General Washington, and how he rode his horse along
the streets of Boston, and he stood up to show us how he looked.

"He was a r-a-ther large and portly-looking man, a manly and resolute-looking officer, with
a pretty good leg, as he sat on his horse.--There, I'll tell you, this was the way with Washington."
Then he jumped up again, and bowed gracefully to right and left, making show as if he were
waving his hat. Said he, "That was Washington."

He told us many anecdotes of the Revolution, and was much pleased when we told him that we
had read the same in history, and that his account agreed with the written.

"Oh," he said, "I know, I know! I was a young fellow of sixteen, with my ears wide open; and
a fellow of that age, you know, is pretty wide awake, and likes to know everything that's going
on. Oh, I know!"

He told us the story of the wreck of the Franklin, which took place there the previous spring:
how a boy came to his house early in the morning to know whose boat that was by the shore,
for there was a vessel in distress; and he, being an old man, first ate his breakfast, and
then walked over to the top of the hill by the shore, and sat down there, having found a comfortable
seat, to see the ship wrecked. She was on the bar, only a quarter of a mile from him, and still
nearer to the men on the beach, who had got a boat ready, but could render no assistance on
account of the breakers, for there was a pretty high sea running. There were the passengers
all crowded together in the forward part of the ship, and some were getting out of the cabin-windows
and were drawn on deck by the others.

"I saw the captain get out his boat," said he; "he had one little one; and then they jumped
into it, one after another, down as straight as an arrow. I counted them. There were nine.
One was a woman, and she jumped as straight as any of them. Then they shoved off. The sea took
them back, one wave went over them, and when they came up there were six still clinging to
the boat: I counted them. The next wave turned the boat bottom upward, and emptied them all
out. None of them ever came ashore alive. There were the rest of them all crowded together
on the forecastle, the other parts of the ship being under water. They had seen all that happened
to the boat. At length a heavy sea separated the forecastle from the rest of the wreck, and
set it inside of the worst breaker, and the boat was able to reach them, and it saved all that
were left, but one woman."

He also told us of the steamer Cambria's getting aground on his shore a few months before we
were there, and of her English passengers who roamed over his grounds, and who, he said, thought
the prospect from the high hill by the shore "the most delightsome they had ever seen," and
also of the pranks which the ladies played with his scoop-net in the ponds. He spoke of these
travellers, with their purses full of guineas, just as our Provincial fathers used to speak
of British bloods in the time of King George III.

Quid loquar? Why repeat what he told us?

    "Aut Scyllam Nisi, quam fama secuta est,
    Candida succinctam latrantibus inguina monstris,
    Dulichias vexâsse rates, et gurgite in alto
    Ah timidos nautas canibus lacerâsse marinis?"

In the course of the evening I began to feel the potency of the clam which I had eaten, and
I was obliged to confess to our host that I was no tougher than the cat he told of; but he
answered, that he was a plain-spoken man, and he could tell me that it was all imagination.
At any rate, it proved an emetic in my case, and I was made quite sick by it for a short time,
while he laughed at my expense. I was pleased to read afterward, in Mourt's Relation of the
Landing of the Pilgrims in Provincetown Harbor, these words:--"We found great muscles," (the
old editor says that they were undoubtedly sea-clams,) "and very fat and full of sea-pearl;
but we could not eat them, for they made us all sick that did eat, as well sailors as passengers,
... but they were soon well again." It brought me nearer to the Pilgrims to be thus reminded
by a similar experience that I was so like them. Moreover, it was a valuable confirmation of
their story, and I am prepared now to believe every word of Mourt's "Relation." I was also
pleased to find that man and the clam lay still at the same angle to one another. But I did
not notice sea-pearl. Like Cleopatra, I must have swallowed it. I have since dug these clams
on a flat in the Bay, and observed them. They could squirt full ten feet before the wind, as
appeared by the marks of the drops on the sand.

"Now I am going to ask you a question," said the old man, "and I don't know as you can tell
me; but you are a learned man, and I never had any learning, only what I got by natur."--It
was in vain that we reminded him that he could quote Josephus to our confusion.--"I've thought,
if I ever met a learned man, I should like to ask him this question. Can you tell me how Axy
is spelt, and what it means? Axy," says he; "there's a girl over here is named Axy. Now what
is it? What does it mean? Is it Scriptur? I've read my Bible twenty-five years over and over,
and I never came across it."

"Did you read it twenty-five years for this object?" I asked.

"Well, how is it spelt? Wife, how is it spelt?"

She said,--"It is in the Bible; I've seen it."

"Well, how do you spell it?"

"I don't know. A c h, ach, s e h, seh,--Achseh."

"Does that spell Axy? Well, do you know what it means?" asked he, turning to me.

"No," I replied,--"I never heard the sound before."

"There was a schoolmaster down here once, and they asked him what it meant, and he said it
had no more meaning than a bean-pole."

I told him that I held the same opinion with the schoolmaster. I had been a schoolmaster myself,
and had had strange names to deal with. I also heard of such names as Zoheth, Beriah, Amaziah,
Bethuel, and Shearjashub, hereabouts.

At length the little boy, who had a seat quite in the chimney-corner, took off his stockings
and shoes, warmed his feet, and went off to bed; then the fool followed him; and finally the
old man. He proceeded to make preparations for retiring, discoursing meanwhile with Panurgic
plainness of speech on the ills to which old humanity is subject. We were a rare haul for him.
He could commonly get none but ministers to talk to, though sometimes ten of them at once,
and he was glad to meet some of the laity at leisure. The evening was not long enough for him.
As I had been sick, the old lady asked if I would not go to bed,--it was getting late for old
people; but the old man, who had not yet done his stories, said,--

"You a'n't particular, are you?"

"Oh, no," said I,--"I am in no hurry. I believe I have weathered the Clam cape."

"They are good," said he; "I wish I had some of them now."

"They never hurt me," said the old lady.

"But then you took out the part that killed a cat," said I.

At last we cut him short in the midst of his stories, which he promised to resume in the morning.
Yet, after all, one of the old ladies who came into our room in the night to fasten the fire-board,
which rattled, as she went out took the precaution to fasten us in. Old women are by nature
more suspicious than old men. However, the winds howled around the house, and made the fire-boards
as well as the casements rattle well that night. It was probably a windy night for any locality,
but we could not distinguish the roar which was proper to the ocean from that which was due
to the wind alone.

The sounds which the ocean makes must be very significant and interesting to those who live
near it. When I was leaving the shore at this place the next summer, and had got a quarter
of a mile distant, ascending a hill, I was startled by a sudden, loud sound from the sea, as
if a large steamer were letting off steam by the shore, so that I caught my breath and felt
my blood run cold for an instant, and I turned about, expecting to see one of the Atlantic
steamers thus far out of her course; but there was nothing unusual to be seen. There was a
low bank at the entrance of the Hollow, between me and the ocean, and suspecting that I might
have risen into another stratum of air in ascending the hill, which had wafted to me only the
ordinary roar of the sea, I immediately descended again, to see if I lost the sound; but, without
regard to my ascending or descending, it died away in a minute or two, and yet there was scarcely
any wind all the while. The old man said that this was what they called the "rut," a peculiar
roar of the sea before the wind changes, which, however, he could, not account for. He thought
that he could tell all about the weather from the sounds which the sea made.

Old Josselyn, who came to New England in 1638, has it among his weather-signs, that "the resounding
of the sea from the shore, and murmuring of the winds in the woods, without apparent wind,
sheweth wind to follow."

Being on another part of the coast one night afterwards, I heard the roar of the surf a mile
distant, and the inhabitants said it was a sign that the wind would work round east, and we
should have rainy weather. The ocean was heaped up somewhere at the eastward, and this roar
was occasioned by its effort to preserve its equilibrium, the wave reaching the shore before
the wind. Also the captain of a packet between this country and England told me that he sometimes
met with a wave on the Atlantic coming against the wind, perhaps in a calm sea, which indicated
that at a distance the wind was blowing from an opposite quarter, but the undulation had travelled
faster than it. Sailors tell of "tide-rips" and "ground-swells," which they suppose to have
been occasioned by hurricanes and earthquakes, and to have travelled many hundred, and sometimes
even two or three thousand miles.

Before sunrise the next morning they let us out again, and I ran over to the beach to see the
sun come out of the ocean. The old woman of eighty-four winters was already out in the cold
morning wind, bare-headed, tripping about like a young girl, and driving up the cow to milk.
She got the breakfast with despatch, and without noise or bustle; and meanwhile the old man
resumed his stories.

After breakfast we looked at his clock, which was out of order, and oiled it with some "hen's
grease," for want of sweet oil, for he scarcely could believe that we were not tinkers or peddlers;
meanwhile he told a story about visions, which had reference to a crack in the clock-case made
by frost one night. He was curious to know to what religious sect we belonged. He said that
he had been to hear thirteen kinds of preaching in one month, when he was young, but he did
not join any of them,--he stuck to his Bible: there was nothing like any of them in his Bible.
While I was shaving in the next room, I heard him ask my companion to what sect he belonged,
to which he answered,--

"Oh, I belong to the Universal Brotherhood."

"What's that?" he asked,--"Sons o' Temperance?"

Finally, filling our pockets with doughnuts, which he was pleased to find that we called by
the same name that he did, and paying for our entertainment, we took our departure; but he
followed us out of doors, and made us tell him the names of the vegetables which he had raised
from seeds that came out of the Franklin. They were cabbage, broccoli, and parsley. As I had
asked him the names of so many things, he tried me in turn with all the plants which grew in
his garden, both wild and cultivated. It was about half an acre, which he cultivated wholly
himself. Besides the common garden-vegetables, there were Yellow-Dock, Lemon-Balm, Hyssop,
Gill-go-over-the-ground, Mouse-ear, Chickweed, Roman Wormwood, Elecampane, and other plants.
As we stood there, I saw a fish-hawk stoop to pick a fish out of his pond.

"There," said I, "he has got a fish."

"Well," said the old man, who was looking all the while, but could see nothing, "he didn't
dive, he just wet his claws."

And, sure enough, he did not this time, though it is said that they often do, but he merely
stooped low enough to pick him out with his talons; but as he bore his shining prey over the
bushes, it fell to the ground, and we did not see that he recovered it. That is not their practice.

Thus, having had another crack with the old man, he standing bareheaded under the eaves, he
directed us "athwart the fields," and we took to the beach again for another day, it being
now late in the morning.

It was but a day or two after this that the safe of the Provincetown Bank was broken open and
robbed by two men from the interior, and we learned that our hospitable entertainers did at
least transiently harbor the suspicion that we were the men.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARLES LAMB'S UNCOLLECTED WRITINGS.

THIRD PAPER. And so kindly and gladly did the public--or at least that portion of the public
that read the "Atlantic Monthly"--receive the specimens of Charles Lamb's uncollected writings,
published somewhile since in these pages, that I am induced to print another paper on the same
pleasant and entertaining subject.

The success of that piece of "ingenious nonsense," that gem of biographical literature, the
unique and veracious "Memoir of Liston," over which the lovers of wit and the lovers of Charles
Lamb have had many a good laugh, was so great that Lamb was encouraged to try his hand at another
theatrical memoir, and produced a mock and mirthful autobiography of his old friend and favorite
comedian, Munden, whom he had previously immortalized in one of the best and most admired of
the "Essays of Elia."

Those who enjoyed the biography of Liston will chuckle over the autobiography of Munden. It
was certainly a happy idea to represent Munden as writing a sketch of his life,--not to gratify
his own vanity, or for the pleasure and entertainment of the public, but solely and purposely
to prevent the truthful and matter-of-fact biographer of Liston from making the old player
the subject of a biographical work. The veteran actor's vehement protests against being represented
as a Presbyterian or Anabaptist, and his brief, but pungent comments on certain passages in
the Liston biography, are delightful. Methinks I see the old man,--

    "The gray-haired man of glee,"--

the great and wonderful impersonator of the "Cobbler of Preston" and "Old Dozey,"--methinks
I see this fine actor, this genial and jovial comedian, and his son, gravely and carefully
examining the great map of Kent in search of Lupton Magna!

Leigh Hunt, in his Autobiography, speaking of some of Elia's contributions to the "London Magazine,"
thus mentions these two "he-children" of Lamb's:--

"He wrote in the same magazine two lives of Liston and Munden, which the public took for serious,
and which exhibit an extraordinary jumble of imaginary facts and truth of by-painting. Munden
he made born at "Stoke Pogis"; the very sound of which was like the actor speaking and digging
his words."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF MR. MUNDEN.

In a Letter to the Editor of the "London Magazine."

Hark'ee, Mr. Editor. A word in your ear. They tell me you are going to put me in print,--in
print, Sir; to publish my life. What is my life to you, Sir? What is it to you whether I ever
lived at all? My life is a very good life, Sir. I am insured at the Pelican, Sir. I am threescore
years and six,--six; mark me, Sir: but I can play Polonius, which, I believe, few of your corre--correspondents
can do, Sir. I suspect tricks, Sir; I smell a rat: I do, I do. You would cog the die upon us:
you would, you would, Sir. But I will forestall you, Sir. You would be deriving me from William
the Conqueror, with a murrain to you. It is no such thing, Sir. The town shall know better,
Sir. They begin to smoke your flams, Sir. Mr. Liston may be born where he pleases, Sir; but
I will not be born at Lup--Lupton Magna for anybody's pleasure, Sir. My son and I have looked
over the great map of Kent together, and we can find no such place as you would palm upon us,
Sir,--palm upon us, I say. Neither Magna nor Parva, as my son says; and he knows Latin, Sir,--Latin.
If you write my life true, Sir, you must set down, that I, Joseph Munden, comedian, came into
the world upon Allhallows Day, Anno Domini 1759,--1759; no sooner nor later, Sir: and I saw
the first light--the first light, remember, Sir--at Stoke Pogis,--Stoke Pogis, comitatu Bucks,
and not at Lup--Lup Magna, which I believe to be no better than moonshine,--moonshine; do you
mark me, Sir? I wonder you can put such flim-flams upon us, Sir: I do, I do. It does not become
you, Sir: I say it,--I say it. And my father was an honest tradesman, Sir: he dealt in malt
and hops, Sir; and was a Corporation-man, Sir; and of the Church of England, Sir; and no Presbyterian,
nor Ana--Anabaptist, Sir; however you may be disposed to make honest people believe to the
contrary, Sir. Your bams are found out, Sir. The town will be your stale puts no longer, Sir;
and you must not send us jolly fellows, Sir,--we that are comedians, Sir,--you must not send
us into groves and Charn--Charnwoods a-moping, Sir. Neither Charns, nor charnel-houses, Sir.
It is not our constitutions, Sir: I tell it you,--I tell it you. I was a droll dog from my
cradle. I came into the world tittering, and the midwife tittered, and the gossips spilt their
caudle with tittering; and when I was brought to the font, the parson could not christen me
for tittering. So I was never more than half baptized. And when I was little Joey, I made 'em
all titter; there was not a melancholy face to be seen in Pogis. Pure nature, Sir. I was born
a comedian. Old Screwup, the undertaker, could tell you, Sir, if he were living. Why, I was
obliged to be locked up every time there was to be a funeral at Pogis. I was, I was, Sir. I
used to grimace at the mutes, as he called it, and put 'em out with my mops and my mows, till
they couldn't stand at a door for me. And when I was locked up, with nothing but a cat in my
company, I followed my bent with trying to make her laugh; and sometimes she would, and sometimes
she would not. And my schoolmaster could make nothing of me: I had only to thrust my tongue
in my cheek,--in my cheek, Sir,--and the rod dropped from his fingers; and so my education
was limited, Sir. And I grew up a young fellow, and it was thought convenient to enter me upon
some course of life that should make me serious; but it wouldn't do, Sir. And I articled to
a dry-salter. My father gave forty pounds premium with me, Sir. I can show the indent--dent--dentures,
Sir. But I was born to be a comedian, Sir: so I ran away, and listed with the players, Sir;
and I topt my parts at Amersham and Gerrard's Cross, and played my own father to his face,
in his own town of Pogis, in the part of Gripe, when I was not full seventeen years of age;
and he did not know me again, but he knew me afterwards; and then he laughed, and I laughed,
and, what is better, the dry-salter laughed, and gave me up my articles for the joke's sake:
so that I came into court afterwards with clean hands,--with clean hands; do you see, Sir?

[Here the manuscript becomes illegible for two or three sheets onwards, which we presume to
be occasioned by the absence of Mr. Munden, jun., who clearly transcribed it for the press
thus far. The rest (with the exception of the concluding paragraph, which seemingly is resumed
in the first handwriting) appears to contain a confused account of some lawsuit in which the
elder Munden was engaged; with a circumstantial history of the proceedings on a case of breach
of promise of marriage, made to or by (we cannot pick out which) Jemima Munden, spinster, probably
the comedian's cousin, for it does not appear he had any sister; with a few dates, rather better
preserved, of this great actor's engagements,--as "Cheltenham, [spelt Cheltnam,] 1776," "Bath,
1779," "London, 1789,"--together with stage-anecdotes of Messrs. Edwin, Wilson, Lee, Lewis,
etc.; over which we have strained our eyes to no purpose, in the hope of presenting something
amusing to the public. Towards the end, the manuscript brightens up a little, as we have said,
and concludes in the following manner.]

---- stood before them for six-and-thirty years, [we suspect that Mr. Munden is here speaking
of his final leave-taking of the stage,] and to be dismissed at last. But I was heart-whole,--heart-whole
to the last, Sir. What though a few drops did course themselves down the old veteran's cheeks?
who could help it, Sir? I was a giant that night, Sir, and could have played fifty parts, each
as arduous as Dozey. My faculties were never better, Sir. But I was to be laid upon the shelf.
It did not suit the public to laugh with their old servant any longer, Sir. [Here some moisture
has blotted a sentence or two.] But I can play Polonius still, Sir: I can, I can.

    Your servant, Sir,
    JOSEPH MUNDEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the "Reflector," a short-lived periodical set up by Leigh Hunt, and in which Lamb's quaint
and beautiful poem, "A Farewell to Tobacco," and his masterly critical essays on "The Tragedies
of Shakspeare," and on "The Genius of Hogarth," and other of his early writings, appeared,
I find the following characteristic article from Elia's pen.

The reader will observe (and smile as he observes) that there is a great difference between
the "good clerk" of fifty years ago and the "good clerk" of to-day. He of yesterday is a wonderfully
simple, humble, automaton-like person, in comparison with the brisk, dashing, independent "votaries
of the desk" of the year eighteen hundred and sixty-four.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GOOD CLERK: A CHARACTER.

THE GOOD CLERK.--He writeth a fair and swift hand, and is competently versed in the four first
rules of arithmetic, in the Rule of Three, (which is sometimes called the Golden Rule,) and
in Practice. We mention these things that we may leave no room for cavillers to say that anything
essential hath been omitted in our definition; else, to speak the truth, these are but ordinary
accomplishments, and such as every understrapper at a desk is commonly furnished with. The
character we treat of soareth higher.

He is clean and neat in his person, not from a vainglorious desire of setting himself forth
to advantage in the eyes of the other sex,--with which vanity too many of our young sparks
nowadays are infected,--but to do credit, as we say, to the office. For this reason, he evermore
taketh care that his desk or his books receive no soil; the which things he is commonly as
solicitous to have fair and unblemished as the owner of a fine horse is to have him appear
in good keep.

He riseth early in the morning,--not because early rising conduceth to health, (though he doth
not altogether despise that consideration,) but chiefly to the intent that he may be first
at the desk. There is his post, there he delighteth to be, unless when his meals or necessity
calleth him away; which time he alway esteemeth as lost, and maketh as short as possible.

He is temperate in eating and drinking, that he may preserve a clear head and steady hand for
his master's service. He is also partly induced to this observation of the rules of temperance
by his respect for religion and the laws of his country; which things, it may once for all
be noted, do add especial assistances to his actions, but do not and cannot furnish the main
spring or motive thereto. His first ambition, as appeareth all along, is to be a good clerk;
his next, a good Christian, a good patriot, etc.

Correspondent to this, he keepeth himself honest, not for fear of the laws, but because he
hath observed how unseemly an article it maketh in the day-book or ledger when a sum is set
down lost or missing; it being his pride to make these books to agree and to tally, the one
side with the other, with a sort of architectural symmetry and correspondence.

He marrieth, or marrieth not, as best suiteth with his employer's views. Some merchants do
the rather desire to have married men in their counting-houses, because they think the married
state a pledge for their servants' integrity, and an incitement to them to be industrious;
and it was an observation of a late Lord-Mayor of London, that the sons of clerks do generally
prove clerks themselves, and that merchants encouraging persons in their employ to marry, and
to have families, was the best method of securing a breed of sober, industrious young men attached
to the mercantile interest. Be this as it may, such a character as we have been describing
will wait till the pleasure of his employer is known on this point, and regulateth his desires
by the custom of the house or firm to which he belongeth.

He avoideth profane oaths and jesting, as so much time lost from his employ. What spare time
he hath for conversation, which in a counting-house such as we have been supposing can be but
small, he spendeth in putting seasonable questions to such of his fellows (and sometimes respectfully
to the master himself) who can give him information respecting the price and quality of goods,
the state of exchange, or the latest improvements in book-keeping; thus making the motion of
his lips, as well as of his fingers, subservient to his master's interest. Not that be refuseth
a brisk saying, or a cheerful sally of wit, when it comes unforced, is free of offence, and
hath a convenient brevity. For this reason, he hath commonly some such phrase as this in his
mouth,--

    "It's a slovenly look
    To blot your book."

Or,

    "Red ink for ornament, black for use:
    The best of things are open to abuse."

So upon the eve of any great holiday, of which he keepeth one or two at least every year, he
will merrily say, in the hearing of a confidential friend, but to none other,--

    "All work and no play'
    Makes Jack a dull boy."

Or,

    "A bow always bent must crack at last."

But then this must always be understood to be spoken confidentially, and, as we say, under
the rose.

Lastly, his dress is plain, without singularity,--with no other ornament than the quill, which
is the badge of his function, stuck behind the dexter ear, and this rather for convenience
of having it at hand, when he hath been called away from his desk, and expecteth to resume
his seat there again shortly, than from any delight which he taketh in foppery or ostentation.
The color of his clothes is generally noted to be black rather than brown, brown rather than
blue or green. His whole deportment is staid, modest, and civil. His motto is "Regularity."

       *       *       *       *       *

This character was sketched in an interval of business, to divert some of the melancholy hours
of a counting-house. It is so little a creature of fancy, that it is scarce anything more than
a recollection of some of those frugal and economical maxims which about the beginning of the
last century (England's meanest period) were endeavored to be inculcated and instilled into
the breasts of the London apprentices[E] by a class of instructors who might not inaptly be
termed "The Masters of Mean Morals." The astonishing narrowness and illiberality of the lessons
contained in some of those books is inconceivable by those whose studies have not led them
that way, and would almost induce one to subscribe to the hard censure which Drayton has passed
upon the mercantile spirit,--

    "The gripple merchant, born to be the curse
    Of this brave isle."

In the laudable endeavor to eke out "a something contracted income," Lamb, in his younger days,
essayed to write lottery-puffs,--(Byron, we know, was accused of writing lottery-puffs,)--but
he did not succeed very well in the task. His samples were returned on his hands, as "done
in too severe and terse a style." Some Grub-Street hack--a nineteenth-century Tom Brown or
Mr. Dash--succeeded in composing these popular and ingenious productions; but the man who wrote
the Essays of Elia could not write a successful lottery-puff. At this exult, O mediocrity!
and take courage, man of genius!

Although Elia was an unsuccessful lottery-puffer, he always took special interest in lotteries,
and was present at the drawing of many of them.

Mr. Bickerstaff, we remember,--though I fear that in these days the pleasant and profitable
pages of "The Father" are hardly more known to the generality of readers than the lost books
of Livy or the missing cantos of the "Faërie Queene,"--possibly we may remember, I say, that
the wise, witty, learned, eloquent, delightful Mr. Bickerstaff, in order to raise the requisite
sum to purchase a ticket in the (then) newly erected lottery, sold off a couple of globes and
a telescope (the venerable Isaac was a Professor of Palmistry and Astrology, as well as Censor
of Great Britain); and finding by a learned calculation that it was but a hundred and fifty
thousand to one against his being worth one thousand pounds for thirty-two years, he spent
many days and nights in preparing his mind for this change of fortune.

And albeit I do not believe that Lamb, in his poorest and most needy days, was ever tempted
by any Alnaschar-dreams of wealth to exchange the raggedest and least valuable of his "midnight
darlings" for the wherewithal to purchase lottery-tickets, I dare say the money which Elia
had saved for the purchase of some choice and long-coveted old folio or other went into the
coffers of the lottery-dealers. Though Lamb drew nothing but blanks, "or those more vexatious
tantalizers of the spirit, denominated small prizes," yet he held himself largely indebted
to the Lottery, and, upon its abolition in England in 1825, he wrote a long, eloquent, pathetic
discourse on the great departed. It appeared in Colburn's "New Monthly Magazine," and is, I
think, a very pleasant, entertaining paper, worthy of its subject, and not unworthy of the
pen of Charles Lamb. I take great pleasure in introducing the article to the readers of the
"Atlantic."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ILLUSTRIOUS DEFUNCT.[F]

    "Nought but a blank remains, a dead void space,
    A step of life that promised such a race."

    --Dryden.

Napoleon has now sent us back from the grave sufficient echoes of his living renown: the twilight
of posthumous fame has lingered long enough over the spot where the sun of his glory set; and
his name must at length repose in the silence, if not in the darkness of night. In this busy
and evanescent scene, other spirits of the age are rapidly snatched away, claiming our undivided
sympathies and regrets, until in turn they yield to some newer and more absorbing grief. Another
name is now added to the list of the mighty departed,--a name whose influence upon the hopes
and fears, the fates and fortunes of our countrymen, has rivalled, and perhaps eclipsed, that
of the defunct "child and champion of Jacobinism," while it is associated with all the sanctions
of legitimate government, all the sacred authorities of social order and our most holy religion.
We speak of one, indeed, under whose warrant heavy and incessant contributions were imposed
upon our fellow-citizens, but who exacted nothing without the signet and the sign-manual of
most devout Chancellors of the Exchequer. Not to dally longer with the sympathies of our readers,
we think it right to premonish them that we are composing an epicedium upon no less distinguished
a personage than the Lottery, whose last breath, after many penultimate puffs, has been sobbed
forth by sorrowing contractors, as if the world itself were about to be converted into a blank.
There is a fashion of eulogy, as well as of vituperation, and, though the Lottery stood for
some time in the latter predicament, we hesitate not to assert that "multis ille bonis flebilis
occidit." Never have we joined in the senseless clamor which condemned the only tax whereto
we became voluntary contributors, the only resource which gave the stimulus without the danger
or infatuation of gambling, the only alembic which in these plodding days sublimized our imaginations,
and filled them with more delicious dreams than ever flitted athwart the sensorium of Alnaschar.

Never can the writer forget, when, as a child, he was hoisted upon a servant's shoulder in
Guildhall, and looked down upon the installed and solemn pomp of the then drawing Lottery.
The two awful cabinets of iron, upon whose massy and mysterious portals the royal initials
were gorgeously emblazoned, as if, after having deposited the unfulfilled prophecies within,
the King himself had turned the lock, and still retained the key in his pocket,--the blue-coat
boy, with his naked arm, first converting the invisible wheel, and then diving into the dark
recess for a ticket,--the grave and reverend faces of the commissioners eying the announced
number,--the scribes below calmly committing it to their huge books,--the anxious countenances
of the surrounding populace,--while the giant figures of Gog and Magog, like presiding deities,
looked down with a grim silence upon the whole proceeding,--constituted altogether a scene
which, combined with the sudden wealth supposed to be lavished from those inscrutable wheels,
was well calculated to impress the imagination of a boy with reverence and amazement. Jupiter,
seated between the two fatal urns of good and evil, the blind goddess with her cornucopia,
the Parcæ wielding the distaff, the thread of life, and the abhorred shears, seemed but dim
and shadowy abstractions of mythology, when I had gazed upon an assemblage exercising, as I
dreamt, a not less eventful power, and all presented to me in palpable and living operation.
Reason and experience, ever at their old spiteful work of catching and destroying the bubbles
which youth delighted to follow, have indeed dissipated much of this illusion; but my mind
so far retained the influence of that early impression, that I have ever since continued to
deposit my humble offerings at its shrine, whenever the ministers of the Lottery went forth
with type and trumpet to announce its periodical dispensations; and though nothing has been
doled out to me from its uudiscerning coffers but blanks, or those more vexatious tantalizers
of the spirit denominated small prizes, yet do I hold myself largely indebted to this most
generous diffuser of universal happiness. Ingrates that we are, are we to be thankful for no
benefits that are not palpable to sense, to recognize no favors that are not of marketable
value, to acknowledge no wealth unless it can be counted with the five fingers? If we admit
the mind to be the sole depositary of genuine joy, where is the bosom that has not been elevated
into a temporary Elysium by the magic of the Lottery? Which of us has not converted his ticket,
or even his sixteenth share of one, into a nest-egg of Hope, upon which he has sat brooding
in the secret roosting-places of his heart, and hatched it into a thousand fantastical apparitions?

What a startling revelation of the passions, if all the aspirations engendered by the Lottery
could be made manifest! Many an impecuniary epicure has gloated over his locked-up warrant
for future wealth, as a means of realizing the dream of his namesake in the "Alchemist":--

    "My meat shall all come in in Indian shells,--
    Dishes of agate set in gold, and studded
    With emeralds, sapphires, hyacinths, and rubies;
    The tongues of carps, dormice, and camels' heels,
    Boiled i' the spirit of Sol, and dissolved in pearl
    (Apicius' diet 'gainst the epilepsy);
    And I will eat these broths with spoons of amber
    Headed with diamant and carbuncle.
    My footboy shall eat pheasants, calvered salmons,
    Knots, goodwits, lampreys. I myself will have
    The beards of barbels served; instead of salads,
    Oiled mushrooms, and the swelling unctuous paps
    Of a fat pregnant sow, newly cut off,
    Dressed with an exquisite and poignant sauce,
    For which I'll say unto my cook, 'There's gold:
    Go forth, and he a knight.'"

Many a doting lover has kissed the scrap of paper whose promissory shower of gold was to give
up to him his otherwise unattainable Danaë; Nimrods have transformed the same narrow symbol
into a saddle by which they have been enabled to bestride the backs of peerless hunters; while
nymphs have metamorphosed its Protean form into

    "Rings, gauds, conceits,
    Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats,"

and all the braveries of dress, to say nothing of the obsequious husband, the two-footmaned
carriage, and the opera-box. By the simple charm of this numbered and printed rag, gamesters
have, for a time at least, recovered their losses, spendthrifts have cleared off mortgages
from their estates, the imprisoned debtor has leaped over his lofty boundary of circumscription
and restraint and revelled in all the joys of liberty and fortune, the cottage-walls have swelled
out into more goodly proportion than those of Baucis and Philemon, poverty has tasted the luxuries
of competence, labor has lolled at ease in a perpetual armchair of idleness, sickness has been
bribed into banishment, life has been invested with new charms, and death deprived of its former
terrors. Nor have the affections been less gratified than the wants, appetites, and ambitions
of mankind. By the conjurations of the same potent spell, kindred have lavished anticipated
benefits upon one another, and charity upon all. Let it be termed a delusion,--a fool's Paradise
is better than the wise man's Tartarus; be it branded as an ignis-fatuus,--it was at least
a benevolent one, which, instead of beguiling its followers into swamps, caverns, and pitfalls,
allured them on with all the blandishments of enchantment to a garden of Eden, an ever-blooming
Elysium of delight. True, the pleasures it bestowed were evanescent: but which of our joys
are permanent? and who so inexperienced as not to know that anticipation is always of higher
relish than reality, which strikes a balance both in our sufferings and enjoyments? "The fear
of ill exceeds the ill we fear"; and fruition, in the same proportion, invariably falls short
of hope. "Men are but children of a larger growth," who may amuse themselves for a long time
in gazing at the reflection of the moon in the water; but, if they jump in to grasp it, they
may grope forever, and only get the farther from their object. He is the wisest who keeps feeding
upon the future, and refrains as long as possible from undeceiving himself by converting his
pleasant speculations into disagreeable certainties.

The true mental epicure always purchased his ticket early, and postponed inquiry into its fate
to the last possible moment, during the whole of which intervening period he had an imaginary
twenty thousand locked up in his desk: and was not this well worth all the money? Who would
scruple to give twenty pounds interest for even the ideal enjoyment of as many thousands during
two or three months? "Crede quod habes, et habes"; and the usufruct of such a capital is sorely
not dear at such a price. Some years ago, a gentleman, in passing along Cheapside, saw the
figures 1,069, of which number he was the sole proprietor, flaming on the window of a lottery-office
as a capital prize. Somewhat flurried by this discovery, not less welcome than unexpected,
he resolved to walk round St. Paul's that he might consider in what way to communicate the
happy tidings to his wife and family; but, upon repassing the shop, he observed that the number
was altered to 10,069, and, upon inquiry, had the mortification to learn that his ticket was
a blank, and had only been stuck up in the window by a mistake of the clerk. This effectually
calmed his agitation; but he always speaks of himself as having once possessed twenty thousand
pounds, and maintains that his ten-minutes' walk round St. Paul's was worth ten times the purchase-money
of the ticket. A prize thus obtained has, moreover, this special advantage: it is beyond the
reach of fate; it cannot be squandered; bankruptcy cannot lay siege to it; friends cannot pull
it down, nor enemies blow it up; it bears a charmed life, and none of woman born can break
its integrity, even by the dissipation of a single fraction. Show me the property in these
perilous times that is equally compact and impregnable. We can no longer become enriched for
a quarter of an hour; we can no longer succeed in such splendid failures: all our chances of
making such a miss have vanished with the last of the Lotteries.

Life will now become a flat, prosaic routine of matter-of-fact; and sleep itself, erst so prolific
of numerical configurations and mysterious stimulants to lottery-adventure, will be disfurnished
of its figures and figments. People will cease to harp upon the one lucky number suggested
in a dream, and which forms the exception, while they are scrupulously silent upon the ten
thousand falsified dreams which constitute the rule. Morpheus will stifle Cocker with a handful
of poppies, and our pillows will be no longer haunted by the book of numbers.

And who, too, shall maintain the art and mystery of puffing in all its pristine glory, when
the lottery-professors shall have abandoned its cultivation? They were the first, as they will
assuredly be the last, who fully developed the resources of that ingenious art,--who cajoled
and decoyed the most suspicious and wary reader into a perusal of their advertisements by devices
of endless variety and cunning,--who baited their lurking schemes with midnight murders, ghost-stories,
crim-cons, bon-mots, balloons, dreadful catastrophes, and every diversity of joy and sorrow,
to catch newspaper-gudgeons. Ought not such talents to be encouraged? Verily the abolitionists
have much to answer for!

And now, having established the felicity of all those who gained imaginary prizes, let us proceed
to show that the equally numerous class who were presented with real blanks have not less reason
to consider themselves happy. Most of us have cause to be thankful for that which is bestowed;
but we have all, probably, reason to be still more grateful for that which is withheld, and
more especially for our being denied the sudden possession of riches. In the Litany, indeed,
we Call upon the Lord to deliver us "in all time of our wealth"; but how few of us are sincere
in deprecating such a calamity! Massinger's Luke, and Ben Jonson's Sir Epicure Mammon, and
Pope's Sir Balaam, and our own daily observation, might convince us that the Devil "now tempts
by making rich, not making poor." We may read in the "Guardian" a circumstantial account of
a man who was utterly ruined by gaining a capital prize; we may recollect what Dr. Johnson
said to Garrick, when the latter was making a display of his wealth at Hampton Court,--"Ah,
David! David! these are the things that make a death-bed terrible"; we may recall the Scripture
declaration as to the difficulty a rich man finds in entering into the kingdom of heaven; and,
combining all these denunciations against opulence, let us heartily congratulate one another
upon our lucky escape from the calamity of a twenty or thirty thousand pound prize! The fox
in the fable, who accused the unattainable grapes of sourness, was more of a philosopher than
we are generally willing to allow. He was an adept in that species of moral alchemy which turns
everything to gold, and converts disappointment itself into a ground of resignation and content.

       *       *       *       *       *

The foregoing article, as the reader may possibly remember, was not Lamb's only contribution
to the "New Monthly Magazine." Indeed, it was in that pleasant and popular periodical,--then
at the height of its popularity, with many of the most admired writers in Great Britain among
its contributors, and edited by the elegant and polished poet who sang the "Pleasures of Hope,"--it
was in this magazine that Elia's admirable "Popular Fallacies" were first given to the world.
(I fear, however, that the exquisite grace, beauty, and polish of these delightful papers were
hardly appreciated by the readers of the "New Monthly.") And it was for this publication that
he undertook to write a novel. Although Elia had but little fancy for novels himself, and in
the writing of them would not have done justice, perhaps, to his rare genius, yet, nevertheless,
I suspect that all admirers of "Rosamund Gray," if not all readers of novels, regret that he
did not complete the work of fiction he began for the "New Monthly Magazine." Judging from
the specimen that was published, it would have been, had the author seen fit to finish it,
quite an original and very characteristic production. Here is the first chapter of the story.
Though advertised to be continued, this is all of it that ever appeared.

       *       *       *       *       *

REMINISCENCES OF JUKE JUDKINS, ESQ., OF BIRMINGHAM

I am the only son of a considerable brazier in Birmingham, who, dying in 1803, left me successor
to the business, with no other incumbrance than a sort of rent-charge, which I am enjoined
to pay out of it, of ninety-three pounds sterling per annum, to his widow, my mother, and which
the improving state of the concern, I bless God, has hitherto enabled me to discharge with
punctuality. (I say, I am enjoined to pay the said sum, but not strictly obligated: that is
to say, as the will is worded, I believe the law would relieve me from the payment of it; but
the wishes of a dying parent should in some sort have the effect of law.) So that, though the
annual profits of my business, on an average of the last three or four years, would appear
to an indifferent observer, who should inspect my shop-books, to amount to the sum of one thousand
three hundred and three pounds, odd shillings, the real proceeds in that time have fallen short
of that sum to the amount of the aforesaid payment of ninety-three pounds sterling annually.

I was always my father's favorite. He took a delight, to the very last, in recounting the little
sagacious tricks and innocent artifices of my childhood. One manifestation thereof I never
heard him repeat without tears of joy trickling down his cheeks. It seems, that, when I quitted
the parental roof, (August 27th, 1788,) being then six years and not quite a month old, to
proceed to the Free School at Warwick, where my father was a sort of trustee, my mother--as
mothers are usually provident on these occasions--had stuffed the pockets of the coach, which
was to convey me and six more children of my own growth that were going to be entered along
with me at the same seminary, with a prodigious quantity of gingerbread, which I remember my
father said was more than was needed: and so, indeed, it was; for, if I had been to eat it
all myself, it would have got stale and mouldly before it had been half spent. The consideration
whereof set me upon my contrivances how I might secure to myself as much of the gingerbread
as would keep good for the next two or three days, and yet none of the rest in a manner be
wasted. I had a little pair of pocket-compasses, which I usually carried about me for the purpose
of making draughts and measurements, at which I was always very ingenious, of the various engines
and mechanical inventions in which such a town as Birmingham abounded. By the means of these,
and a small penknife which my father had given me, I cut out the one half of the cake, calculating
that the remainder would reasonably serve my turn; and subdividing it into many little slices,
which were curious to see for the neatness and niceness of their proportion, I sold it out
in so many pennyworths to my young companions as served us all the way to Warwick, which is
a distance of some twenty miles from this, town: and very merry, I assure you, we made ourselves
with it, feasting all the way. By this honest stratagem, I put double the prime cost of the
gingerbread into my purse, and secured as much as I thought would keep good and moist for my
next two or three days' eating. When I told this to my parents, on their first visit to me
at Warwick, my father (good man) patted me on the cheek, and stroked my head, and seemed as
if he could never make enough of me; but my mother unaccountably burst into tears, and said
"it was a very niggardly action," or some such expression, and that "she would rather it would
please God to take me"--meaning, God help me, that I should die--"than that she should live
to see me grow up a mean man": which shows the difference of parent from parent, and how some
mothers are more harsh and intolerant to their children than some fathers,--when we might expect
quite the contrary. My father, however, loaded me with presents from that time, which made
me the envy of my school-fellows. As I felt this growing disposition in them, I naturally sought
to avert it by all the means in my power; and from that time I used to eat my little packages
of fruit and other nice things in a corner, so privately that I was never found out. Once,
I remember, I had a huge apple sent me, of that sort which they call cats'-heads. I concealed
this all day under my pillow; and at night, but not before I had ascertained that my bed-fellow
was sound asleep,--which I did by pinching him rather smartly two or three times, which he
seemed to perceive no more than a dead person, though once or twice he made a motion as if
he would turn, which frightened me,--I say, when I had made all sure, I fell to work upon my
apple; and though it was as big as an ordinary man's two fists, I made shift to get through
it before it was time to get up. And a more delicious feast I never made,--thinking all night
what a good parent I had (I mean my father) to send me so many nice things, when the poor lad
that lay by me had no parent or friend in the world to send him anything nice; and thinking
of his desolate condition, I munched and munched as silently as I could, that I might not set
him a-longing, if he overheard me. And yet, for all this considerateness and attention to other
people's feelings; I was never much a favorite with my school-fellows; which I have often wondered
at, seeing that I never defrauded any one of them of the value of a halfpenny, or told stories
of them to their master, as some little lying boys would do, but was ready to do any of them
all the services in my power that were consistent with my own well-doing. I think nobody can
be expected to go further than that.--But I am detaining my reader too long in the recording
of my juvenile days. It is time that I should go forward to a season when it became natural
that I should have some thoughts of marrying, and, as they say, settling in the world. Nevertheless,
my reflections on what I may call the boyish period of my life may have their use to some readers.
It is pleasant to trace the man in the boy, to observe shoots of generosity in those young
years, and to watch the progress of liberal sentiments, and what I may call a genteel way of
thinking, which is discernible in some children at a very early age, and usually lays the foundation
of all that is praiseworthy in the manly character afterwards.

With the warmest inclinations towards that way of life, and a serious conviction of its superior
advantages over a single one, it has been the strange infelicity of my lot never to have entered
into the respectable estate of matrimony. Yet I was once very near it. I courted a young woman
in my twenty-seventh year,--for so early I began to feel symptoms of the tender passion! She
was well to do in the world, as they call it, but yet not such a fortune as, all things considered,
perhaps I might have pretended to. It was not my own choice altogether; but my mother very
strongly pressed me to it. She was always putting it to me, that I "had comings-in sufficient,--that
I need not stand upon a portion"; though the young woman, to do her justice, had considerable
expectations, which yet did not quite come up to my mark, as I told you before. She had this
saying always in her mouth: that I "had money enough; that it was time I enlarged my housekeeping,
and to show a spirit befitting my circumstances." In short, what with her importunities, and
my own desires in part coöperating,--for, as I said, I was not yet quite twenty-seven, a time
when the youthful feelings may be pardoned, if they show a little impetuosity,--I resolved,
I say, upon all these considerations, to set about the business of courting in right earnest.
I was a young man then, and having a spice of romance in my character, (as the reader doubtless
has observed long ago,) such as that sex is apt to be taken with, I had reason in no long time
to think my addresses were anything but disagreeable.

Certainly the happiest part of a young man's life is the time when he is going a-courting.
All the generous impulses are then awake, and he feels a double existence in participating
his hopes and wishes with another being. Return yet again for a brief moment, ye visionary
views, transient enchantments! ye moonlight rambles with Cleora in the Silent Walk at Vauxhall,--(N.B.--About
a mile from Birmingham, and resembling the gardens of that name near London, only that the
price of admission is lower,)--when the nightingale has suspended her notes in June to listen
to our loving discourses, while the moon was overhead! (for we generally used to take our tea
at Cleora's mother's before we set out, not so much to save expenses as to avoid the publicity
of a repast in the gardens,--coming in much about the time of half-price, as they call it)--ye
soft intercommunions of soul, when, exchanging mutual vows, we prattled of coming felicities!
The loving disputes we have had under those trees, when this house (planning our future settlement)
was rejected, because, though cheap, it was dull, and the other house was given up, because,
though agreeably situated, it was too high-rented,--one was too much in the heart of the town,
another was too far from business. These minutiæ will seem impertinent to the aged and the
prudent. I write them only to the young. Young lovers, and passionate as being young, (such
were Cleora and I then,) alone can understand me. After some weeks wasted, as I may now call
it, in this sort of amorous colloquy, we at length fixed upon the house in the High Street,
No. 203, just vacated by the death of Mr. Hutton of this town, for our future residence. I
had till that time lived in lodgings (only renting a shop for business) to be near to my mother,--near,
I say: not in the same house with her, for that would have been to introduce confusion into
our housekeeping, which it was desirable to keep separate. Oh, the loving wrangles, the endearing
differences I had with Cleora, before we could quite make up our minds to the house that was
to receive us!--I pretending, for argument's sake, that the rent was too high, and she insisting
that the taxes were moderate in proportion, and love at last reconciling us in the same choice.
I think at that time, moderately speaking, she might have had anything out of me for asking.
I do not, nor shall ever, regret that my character at that time was marked with a tinge of
prodigality. Age comes fast enough upon us, and, in its good time, will prune away all that
is inconvenient in these excesses. Perhaps it is right that it should do so. Matters, as I
said, were ripening to a conclusion between us, only the house was yet not absolutely taken.
Some necessary arrangements, which the ardor of my youthful impetuosity could hardly brook
at that time (love and youth will be precipitate)--some preliminary arrangements, I say, with
the landlord, respecting fixtures,--very necessary things to be considered in a young man about
to settle in the world, though not very accordant with the impatient state of my then passions,--some
obstacles about the valuation of the fixtures,--had hitherto precluded (and I shall always
think providentially) my final closes with his offer, when one of those accidents, which, unimportant
in themselves, often arise to give a turn to the most serious intentions of our life, intervened,
and put an end at once to my projects of wiving and of housekeeping.

I was never much given to theatrical entertainments,--that is, at no time of my life was I
ever what they call a regular play-goer; but on some occasion of a benefit-night, which was
expected to be very productive, and indeed turned out so, Cleora expressing a desire to be
present, I could do no less than offer, as I did very willingly, to squire her and her mother
to the pit. At that time it was not customary in our town for tradesfolk, except some of the
very topping ones, to sit, as they now do, in the boxes. At the time appointed I waited upon
the ladies, who had brought with them a young man, a distant relation, whom it seems they had
invited to be of the party. This a little disconcerted me, as I had about me barely silver
enough to pay for our three selves at the door, and did not at first know that their relation
had proposed paying for himself. However, to do the young man justice, he not only paid for
himself, but for the old lady besides,--leaving me only to pay for two, as it were. In our
passage to the theatre, the notice of Cleora was attracted to some orange-wenches that stood
about the doors vending their commodities. She was leaning on my arm; and I could feel her
every now and then giving me a nudge, as it is called, which I afterwards discovered were hints
that I should buy some oranges. It seems, it is a custom at Birmingham, and perhaps in other
places, when a gentleman treats ladies to the play, especially when a full night is expected,
and that the house will be inconveniently warm, to provide them with this kind of fruit, oranges
being esteemed for their cooling property. But how could I guess at that, never having treated
ladies to a play before, and being, as I said, quite a novice at these kind of entertainments?
At last she spoke plain out, and begged that I would buy some of "those oranges," pointing
to a particular barrow. But when I came to examine the fruit, I did not think that the quality
of it was answerable to the price. In this way I handled several baskets of them; but something
in them all displeased me. Some had thin rinds, and some were plainly over-ripe, which is as
great a fault as not being ripe enough; and I could not (what they call) make a bargain. While
I stood haggling with the women, secretly determining to put off my purchase till I should
get within the theatre, where I expected we should have better choice, the young man, the cousin,
(who, it seems, had left us without my missing him,) came running to us with his pockets stuffed
out with oranges, inside and out, as they say. It seems, not liking the look of the barrow-fruit
any more than myself, he had slipped away to an eminent fruiterer's, about three doors distant,
which I never had the sense to think of, and had laid out a matter of two shillings in some
of the best St. Michael's, I think, I ever tasted. What a little hinge, as I said before, the
most important affairs in life may turn upon! The mere inadvertence to the fact that there
was an eminent fruiterer's within three doors of us, though we had just passed it without the
thought once occurring to me, which he had taken advantage of, lost me the affections of my
Cleora. From that time she visibly cooled towards me, and her partiality was as visibly transferred
to this cousin. I was long unable to account for this change in her behavior; when one day,
accidentally discoursing of oranges to my mother, alone, she let drop a sort of reproach to
me, as if I had offended Cleora by my nearness, as she called it, that evening. Even now, when
Cleora has been wedded some years to that same officious relation, as I may call him, I can
hardly be persuaded that such a trifle could have been the motive to her inconstancy; for could
she suppose that I would sacrifice my dearest hopes in her to the paltry sum of two shillings,
when I was going to treat her to the play, and her mother too, (an expense of more than four
times that amount,) if the young man had not interfered to pay for the latter, as I mentioned?
But the caprices of the sex are past finding out: and I begin to think my mother was in the
right; for doubtless women know women better than we can pretend to know them.

       *       *       *       *       *

WORKS AND DAYS.

                 --"Ritorna a tua scienza!

    Record, O Muse! and let the record stand,
    That, when Bellona ravaged half the land,
    When even these groves, from bloody fields afar,
    Oft shook and shuddered at the sounds of war,
    When the drum drowned the music of the flail,
    And midnight marches broke the peace of Yale,
    Then gathered here amid these vacant bowers
    A band of scholars, men of various powers,
    Various in motion, but with one desire,
    Through wreck and war to watch the sacred fire,
    The authentic fire that great forethoughted Mind
    Stole from the gods for good of humankind.

    Say, Terebinthia, from thy tree of pine,
    Nymph of New England! Muse beyond the Nine!
    Great Berkeley's goddess! giver oftentimes
    Of strength to him, and now and then of rhymes,--
    Whose tears were balsam to the Bishop's brain,
    To cheer, but not infuriate his vein,--
    Tell me, sad virgin, who came after terms
    In these dry fields to stir the slumbering germs?

    Their names were few,--but Agassiz was one,
    And Peirce, the lord of numbers, and alone:
    Arithmeticians many more will be,
    But when another to outrival thee?
    Then those Professors,--Philadelphian pair,
    Winlock, the wise, and watchful as a hare,
    Bright Benjamin that bears the golden name,
    (Apthorp the quick,) Augustus of the same,
    And that strict student, evermore exact,
    One of the Wymans,--both such men of fact,--
    If observation with extensive view
    More such observers can observe, they're few.

    Ye sacred shades where Silliman made gray
    Those hairs that greet him eighty-five to-day!
    Good names be these! good names to stand with his,--
    Fit to record with Yale's old histories,
    When sage Timotheus woke the Western lyre
    That Hillhouse touched, and Percival with fire!

    Declare now, Clio! 'mid this gifted band,
    Who held the reins?--what scientific hand?
    Did He preside? did Franklin's honored heir
    With wonted influence possess the chair?
    No: bowed with cares, a servant of the State,
    In loftier fields he held his watch sedate:
    Bache could not come,--for us a mighty void!
    Yet well for him,--for he was best employed
    High on his tented mountain's breezy slope,
    Might but those maidens meet him--Health and Hope!

    Yet wouldst thou know who stood superior there,
    Where all seemed equal, this I may declare:--
    Of all the wise that wandered from the East
    Or West or South to sit in solemn feast,
    Two men did mostly fascinate the Muse,
    Differing in genius, but with equal views:
    One measuring heaven, in starry lore supreme;
    The other lighting, like the morning beam,
    Old Ocean's bed, or his fresh Alpine snows,
    Reading the laws whereby the glacier grows,
    Or life, through some half-intimated plan,
    Rose from a star-fish to the race of man:
    Choose thine own monarch! either well might reign!
    I knew but one before,--and now but twain.

      Now shut the gates,--the fields have drunk enough
    The time demands a Muse of sterner stuff;
    No more one bard, exempt from vulgar throng,
    May sing through Roman towns the Ascræan song,
    Or court in Learning's elmy bowers relief
    From individual shame or general grief:
    Silence is music to a soul outworn
    With the wild clangor of the warlike horn,
    The paltry fife, the brain-benumbing drum.
    When, white Astræa! will thy kingdom come,--
    The chaster period that our boyhood saw,--
    Arts above arms, and without conquest, Law,--
    Rights well maintained without the strength of steel
    And milder manners for the gentle weal,--
    That Freedom's promise may not come to blight,
    And Wisdom fail, and Knowledge end in night?

NEW HAVEN, August 8.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAUL JONES AND DENIS DUVAL.

Ingham and his wife have a habit of coming in to spend the evening with us, unless we go there,
or unless we both go to Haliburton's, or unless there is something better to do elsewhere.

We talk, or we play besique, or Mrs. Haliburton sings, or we sit on the stoup and hear the
crickets sing; but when there is a new Trollope or Thackeray,--alas, there will never be another
new Thackeray!--all else has always been set aside till we have read that aloud.

When I began the last sentence of the last Thackeray that ever was written, Ingham jumped out
of his seat, and cried,--

"There, I said I remembered this Duval, and you made fun of me. Go on,--and I will tell you
all about him, when you have done."

So I read on to the sudden end:--

"We had been sent for in order to protect a fleet of merchantmen that were bound to the Baltic,
and were to sail under the convoy of our ship and the Countess of Scarborough, commanded by
Captain Piercy. And thus it came about, that, after being twenty-five days in His Majesty's
service, I had the fortune to be present at one of the most severe and desperate combats that
have been fought in our or in any time.

"I shall not attempt to tell that story of the battle of the 23d of September, which ended
in our glorious captain striking his own colors to our superior and irresistible enemy." (This
enemy, as Mr. Thackeray has just said, is "Monsieur John Paul Jones, afterwards Knight of His
Most Christian Majesty's Order of Merit.") "Sir Richard [Pearson, of the English frigate Serapis]
has told the story of his disaster in words nobler than any I could supply, who, though indeed
engaged in that fatal action, in which our flag went down before a renegade Briton and his
motley crew, saw but a very small portion of the battle which ended so fatally for us. It did
not commence till nightfall. How well I remember the sound of the enemy's gun, of which the
shot crashed into our side in reply to the challenge of our captain who hailed her! Then came
a broadside from us,--the first I had ever heard in battle."[G]

Ingham did not speak for a little while. None of us did. And when we did, it was not to speak
of Denis Duval, so much as of the friend we lost, when we lost the monthly letter, or at least,
Roundabout Paper, from Mr. Thackeray. How much we had prized him,--how strange it was that
there was ever a day when we did not know about him,--how strange it was that anybody should
call him cynical, or think men must apologize for him:--of such things and of a thousand more
we spoke, before we came back to Denis Duval.

But at last Fausta said,--"What do you mean, Fred, by saying you remember Denis Duval?"

And I,--"Did you meet him at the Battle of Pavia, or in Valerius Flaccus's Games in Numidia?"
For we have a habit of calling Ingham "The Wandering Jew."

But he would not be jeered at; he only called us to witness, that, from the first chapter of
Denis Duval, he had said the name was familiar,--even to the point of looking it out in the
Biographical Dictionary; and now that it appeared Duval fought on board the Serapis, he said
it all came back to him. His grandfather, his mother's father, was a "volunteer"-boy, preparing
to be midshipman, on the Serapis,--and he knew he had heard him speak of Duval!

Oh, how we all screamed! It was so like Ingham! Haliburton asked him if his grandfather was
not best-man when Denis married Agnes. Fausta asked him if he would not continue the novel
in the "Cornhill." I said it was well known that the old gentleman advised Montcalm to surrender
Quebec, interpreted between Cook and the first Kamehameha, piloted La Pérouse between the Centurion
and the Graves in Boston harbor, and called him up with a toast at a school-dinner;--that I
did not doubt, therefore, that it was all right,--and that he and Duval had sworn eternal friendship
in their boyhood, and now formed one constellation in the southern hemisphere. But after we
had all done, Ingham offered to bet Newport for the Six that he would substantiate what he
said. This is by far the most tremendous wager in our little company; it is never offered,
unless there be certainty to back it; it is, therefore, never accepted; and the nearest approach
we have ever made to Newport, as a company, was one afternoon when we went to South-Boston
Point in the horse-car, and found the tide down. Silence reigned, therefore, and the subject
changed.

The next night we were at Ingham's. He unlocked a ravishing old black mahogany secretary he
has, and produced a pile of parchment-covered books of different sizes, which were diaries
of old Captain Heddart's. They were often called log-books,--but, though in later years kept
on paper ruled for log-books, and often following to a certain extent the indications of the
columns, they were almost wholly personal, and sometimes ran a hundred pages without alluding
at all to the ship on which he wrote. Well! the earliest of these was by far the most elegant
in appearance. My eyes watered a little, as Ingham showed me on the first page, in the stiff
Italian hand which our grandmothers wrote in, when they aspired to elegance, the dedication,--

    "TO MY DEAR FRANCIS,
    who will write something here every day, because he loves his
    MOTHER."

That old English gentleman, whom I just remember, when Ingham first went to sea, as the model
of mild, kind old men, at Ingham's mother's house,--then he went to sea once himself for the
first time,--and he had a mother himself,--and as he went off, she gave him the best album-book
that Thetford Regis could make,--and wrote this inscription in ink that was not rusty then!

Well, again! in this book, Ingham, who had been reading it all day, had put five or six newspaper-marks.

The first was at this entry,--

    "A new boy came into the mess. They said he was a French boy, but
    the first luff says he is the Capptain's own nef-few."

Two pages on,--

    "The French boy fought Wimple and beat him. They fought seeventeen
    rounds."

Farther yet,--

    "Toney is offe on leave. So the French boy was in oure watch. He
    is not a French boy. His name is Doovarl."

In the midst of a great deal about the mess, and the fellows, and the boys, and the others,
and an inexplicable fuss there is about a speculation the mess entered into with some illicit
dealer for an additional supply, not of liquor, but of sugar,--which I believe was detected,
and which covers pages of badly written and worse spelled manuscript, not another distinct
allusion to the French boy,--not near so much as to Toney or Wimple or Scroop, or big Wallis
or little Wallis. Ingham had painfully toiled through it all, and I did after him. But in another
volume, written years after, at a time when the young officer wrote a much more rapid, though
scarcely more legible hand, he found a long account of an examination appointed to pass midshipmen,
and, to our great delight, as it began, this exclamation:--

"When the Amphion's boat came up, who should step up but old Den, whom I had not seen since
we were in the Rainbow. We were together all day,--and it was very good to see him."

And afterwards, in the detail of the examination, he is spoken of as "Duval." The passage is
a little significant.

Young Heddart details all the questions put to him, as thus:--

"'Old Saumarez asked me which was the narrowest part of the Channel, and I told him. Then he
asked how Silly [sic] bore, if I had 75 fathom, red sand and gravel. I said, 'About N.W.,'
and the old man said, 'Well, yes,--rather West of N.W., is not it so, Sir Richard?' And Sir
Richard did not know what they were talking about, and they pulled out Mackenzie's Survey,"
etc., etc., etc.,--more than any man would delve through at this day, unless he were searching
for Paul Jones or Denis Duval, or some other hero. "What is the mark for going into Spithead?"
"What is the mark for clearing Royal Sovereign Shoals?"--let us hope they were all well answered.
Evidently, in Mr. Heddart's mind, they were more important than any other detail of that day,
but fortunately for posterity then comes this passage:--

"After me they called up Brooke, and Calthorp, and Clements,--and then old Wingate, Tom Wingate's
father, who had examined them, seemed to get tired, and turned to Pierson, and said, 'Sir Richard,
you ought to take your turn." And so Sir Richard began, and, as if by accident, called up Den.

"'Mr. Duval,' said he, 'how do you find the variation of the compass by the amplitudes or azimuths?'

"Of course any fool knew that. And of course he could not ask all such questions. So, when
he came on practice, he said,--

"'Mr. Duval, what is the mark for Stephenson's Shoal?'

"Oh, dear! what fun it was to hear Den answer,--Lyd Church and the ruins of Lynn Monastery
must come in one. The Shoal was about three miles from Dungeness, and bore S.W. or somewhere
from it. The Soundings were red sand--or white sand or something,--very glib. Then--

"'How would you anchor under Dungeness, Mr. Duval?'

"And Duval was not too glib, but very certain. He would bring it to bear S.W. by W., or, perhaps,
W.S.W.; he would keep the Hope open of Dover, and he would try to have twelve fathoms water.

"'Well, Mr. Duval, how does Dungeness bear from Beachy Head?'--and so on, and so on.

"And Den was very good and modest, but quite correct all the same, and as true to the point
as Cocker and Gunter together. Oh, dear! I hope the post-captains did not know that Sir Richard
was Den's uncle, and that Den had sailed in and out of Winchelsea harbour, in sight of Beachy
Head and Dungeness, ever since the day after he was born!

"But he made no secret of it when we passed-mids dined at the Anchor.

"A jolley time we had! I slept there."

With these words, Denis Duval vanishes from the Diary.

Of course, as soon as we had begged Ingham's pardon, we turned back to find the battle with
the Bon Homme Richard. Little enough was there. The entry reads thus,--this time rather more
in log-book shape.

On the left-hand page, in columns elaborately ruled,--

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Week-days. |Sept. 1779.|Wind.|Courses.    |Dist.|Lat.  |Long.  | Bearings.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
           |           |     |Waiting for |     |      |       | Flamboro.
Wednesday,\|  22.23.   | S.E.|Convoy till |None.|54° 9'|0°5' E.| H.
Thursday. /|           |     |11 of       |     |      |       | N. by W.
           |           |     |Thursday.   |     |      |       |
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The rest of that page is blank. The right page, headed, "Remarks, &c., on board H.M.S. Serapis,"
in the boy's best copy-hand, goes on with longer entries than any before.

"42 vessels reported for the convoy. Mr. Mycock says we shall not wait for the rest."

"10 o'clock, A.M. Thursday. Two men came on board with news of the
pirate Jones. Signal for a coast-pilot,--weighed and sailed as soon as
he came. As we pass Flamboro' Head, two sails in sight S.S.W., which the
men say are he and his consort."
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
          |           |      |        |        |      |        |Flamb. H.
Thursday,\|  23.24.   |S.S.W.| E.S.E. |Nothing.|52.13.|0.11. E.|W. aftern.
Friday.  /|           |      | W.S.W. |        |      |        |W. by N.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

"Foggy at first,--clear afterwards.

"At 1 P.M. beat to quarters. All my men at quarters but West, who was on shore when we sailed,
the men say on leave,--and Collins in the sick bay. (MEM. shirked.) The others in good spirits.
Mr. Wallis made us a speech, and the men cheered well. Engaged the enemy at about 7.20 P.M.
Mr. Wallis had bade me open my larboard ports, and I did so; but I did not loosen the stern-guns,
which are fought by my crew, when necessary. The captain hailed the stranger twice, and then
the order came to fire. Our gun No. 2 (after-gun but one) was my first piece. No. 1 flashed,
and the gunner had to put on new priming. Fired twice with those guns, but before we had loaded
the second time, for the third fire, the enemy ran into us. One of my men (Craik) was badly
jammed in the shock,--squeezed between the gun and the deck. But he did not leave the gun.
Tried to fire into the enemy, but just as we got the gun to bear, and got a new light, he fell
off. It was very bad working in the dark. The lanthorns are as bad as they can be. Loaded both
guns, got new portfires, and we ran into the enemy. We were wearing, and I believe our jib-boom
got into his mizzen rigging. The ships were made fast by the men on the upper deck. At first
I could not bring a gun to bear, the enemy was so far ahead of me. But as soon as we anchored,
our ship forged ahead a little,--and by bringing the hind axle-trucks well aft, I made both
my starboard guns bear on his bows. Fired right into his forward ports. I do not think there
was a man or a gun there. In the second battery, forward of me, they had to blow our own ports
open, because the enemy lay so close. Stopped firing three times for my guns to cool. No. 2
cools quicker than No. 1, or I think so. Forward we could hear musket-shot, and grenadoes,--but
none of these things fell where we were at work. A man came into port No. 5, where little Wallis
was, and said that the enemy was sinking, and had released him and the other prisoners. But
we had no orders to stop firing. Afterwards there was a great explosion. It began at the main
hatch, but came back to me and scalded some of my No. 2 men horribly. Afterwards Mr. Wallis
came and took some of No. 2's men to board. I tried to bring both guns to bear with No. 1's
crew. No. 2's crew did not come back. At half-past ten all firing stopped on the upper deck.
Mr. Wallis went up to see if the enemy had struck. He did not come down,--but the master came
down and said we had struck, and the orders were to cease firing.

"We had struck to the Richard, 44, Commodore Jones, and the Alliance, 40, which was the vessel
they saw from the quarter-deck. Our consort, the Countess Scarborough, had struck to the enemy's
ship Pallas. The officers and crew of the Richard are on board our ship. The mids talk English
well, and are good fellows. They are very sorry for Mr. Mayrant, who was stabbed with a pike
in boarding us, and Mr. Potter, another midshipman, who was hurt. -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Friday,  \|24th, 25th. |S.S.W.|        |None.|As     |As     |As above. Saturday./|       
|      |        |     |above. |above. | -----------------------------------------------------------------------

"The enemy's sick and wounded and prisoners were brought on board. At ten on the 25th, his
ship, the Richard, sank. Played chess with Mr. Merry, one of the enemy's midshipmen. Beat him
twice out of three.

"There is a little French fellow named Travaillier among their volunteers. When I first saw
him he was naked to his waist. He had used his coat for a wad, and his shirt wet to put out
fire. Plenty of our men had their coats burnt off, but they did not live to tell it."

Then the diary relapses into the dreariness of most ship-diaries, till they come into the Texel,
when it is to a certain extent relieved by discussions about exchanges.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such a peep at the most remarkable frigate-action in history, as that action was seen by a
boy in the dark, through such key-hole as the after-ports of one of the vessels would give
him, stimulated us all to "ask for more," and then to abuse Master Robert Heddart, "volunteer,"
a little, that he had not gone into more detail. Ingham defended his grandfather by saying
that it was the way diaries always served you, which is true enough, and that the boy had literally
told what he saw, which was also true enough, only he seemed to have seen "mighty little,"
which, I suppose, should be spelled "mity little." When we said this, Ingham said it was all
in the dark, and Haliburton added, that "the battle-lanterns were as bad as they could be,"
Ingham said, however, that he thought there was more somewhere,--he had often heard the old
gentleman tell the story in vastly more detail.

Accordingly, a few days after, he sent me a yellow old letter on long foolscap sheets, in which
the old gentleman had written out his recollections for Ingham's own benefit, after some talk
of old times on Thanksgiving evening. It is all he has ever found in his grandfather's rather
tedious papers about the battle, and one passing allusion in it drops the curtain on Denis Duval.

Here it is.

    "JAMAICA PLAIN, NOV. 29, 1824.

    "MY DEAR BOY,--I am very glad to comply with your request
    about an account of the great battle between the Serapis and the
    Bon Homme Richard and her consort. I had rather you should write
    out what I told you all on Thanksgiving evening at your mother's,
    for you hold a better pen than I do. But I know my memory of the
    event is strong, for it was the first fight I ever saw; and
    although it does not compare with Rodney's great fight with De
    Grasse, which I saw also, yet there are circumstances connected
    with it which will always make it a remarkable fight in history.

    "You said, at your mother's, that you had never understood why the
    men on each side kept inquiring if the others had struck. The
    truth is, we had it all our own way below. And, as it proved, when
    our captain, Pearson, struck, most of his men were below. I know,
    that, in all the confusion and darkness and noise, I had no idea,
    aft on the main deck, that we were like to come off second best.
    On the other hand, at that time, the Richard probably had not a
    man left between-decks, unless some whom they were trying to keep
    at her pumps. But on her upper deck and quarter-deck and in her
    tops she had it all her own way. Jones himself was there; by that
    time Dale was there; and they had wholly cleared our upper deck,
    as we had cleared their main deck and gun-room. This was the
    strangeness of that battle. We were pounding through and through
    her, while she did not fight a gun of her main battery. But Jones
    was working his quarter-deck guns so as almost to rake our deck
    from stem to stern. You know, the ships were foul and lashed
    together. Jones says in his own account he aimed at our main-mast
    and kept firing at it. You can see that no crew could have lived
    under such a fire as that. There you have the last two hours of
    the battle: Jones's men all above, our men all below; we pounding
    at his main deck, he pelting at our upper deck. If there had not
    been some such division, of course the thing could not have lasted
    so long, even with the horrid havoc there was. I never saw
    anything like it, and I hope, dear boy, you may never have to."

    [Mem. by Ingham. I had just made my first cruise as a midshipman
    in the U.S. navy on board the Intrepid, when the old gentleman
    wrote this to me. He made his first cruise in the British navy in
    the Serapis. After he was exchanged, he remained in that service
    till 1789, when he married in Canso, N.S., resigned his
    commission, and settled there.]

The letter continues:--

    "I have been looking back on my own boyish journal of that time.
    My mother made me keep a log, as I hope yours does. But it is
    strange to see how little of the action it tells. The truth is, I
    was nothing but a butterfly of a youngster. To save my conceit,
    the first lieutenant, Wallis, told me I was assigned to keep an
    eye on the after-battery, where were two fine old fellows as ever
    took the King's pay really commanding the crews and managing the
    guns. Much did I know about sighting or firing them! However, I
    knew enough to keep my place. I remember tying up a man's arm with
    my own shirt-sleeves, by way of showing I was not frightened, as
    in truth I was. And I remember going down to the cockpit with a
    poor wretch who was awfully burned with powder,--and the sight
    there was so much worse than it was at my gun that I was glad to
    get back again. Well, you may judge, that, from two
    after-portholes below, first larboard, then starboard, I saw
    little enough of the battle. But I have talked about it since,
    with Dale, who was Jones's first lieutenant, and whom I met at
    Charlestown when he commanded the yard there. I have talked of it
    with Wallis many times. I talked of it with Sir Richard Pearson,
    who was afterwards Lt.-Gov. of Greenwich, and whom I saw there.
    Paul Jones I have touched my hat to, but never spoke to, except
    when we all took wine with him one day at dinner. But I have met
    his niece, Miss Janet Taylor, who lives in London now, and
    calculates nautical tables. I hope you will see her some day. Then
    there is a gentleman named Napier in Edinburgh, who has the
    Richard's log-book. Go and see it, if you are ever there,--Mr.
    George Napier. And I have read every word I could find about the
    battle. It was a remarkable fight indeed. 'All of which I was,
    though so little I saw.'"

    [Mem. by F.C. And dear Ingham's nice old grandfather is a little
    slow in getting into action, me judice. It was a way they had in
    the navy before steam.]

The letter continues:--

    "I do not know that Captain Pearson was a remarkable man; but I do
    know he was a brave man. He was made Sir Richard Pearson by the
    King for his bravery in this fight. When Paul Jones heard of that,
    he said Pearson deserved the knighthood, and that he would make
    him an earl the next time he met him. Of course, I only knew the
    captain as a midshipman (we were 'volunteers' then) knows a
    post-captain, and that for a few months only. We joined in summer
    (the Serapis was just commissioned for the first time). We were
    taken prisoners in September, but it was mid-winter before we were
    exchanged. He was very cross all the time we were in Holland. I do
    not suppose he wrote as good a letter as Jones did. I have heard
    that he could not spell well. But what I know is that he was a
    brave man.

    "Paul Jones is one of the curiosities of history. He certainly was
    of immense value to your struggling cause. He kept England in
    terror; he showed the first qualities as a naval commander; he
    achieved great successes with very little force. Yet he has a
    damaged reputation. I do not think he deserves this reputation;
    but I know he has it. Now I can see but one difference between him
    and any of your land-heroes or your water-heroes whom all the
    world respects. This is, that he was born on our side, and they
    were born on the American side. This ought not to make any
    difference. But in actual fact I think it did. Jones was born in
    the British Islands. The popular feeling of England made a
    distinction between the allegiance which he owed to King George
    and that of born Americans. It ought not to have done so, because
    he had in good faith emigrated to America before the Rebellion,
    and took part in it with just the same motives which led any other
    American officer.[H]

    "He had a fondness for books and for society, and thought himself
    gifted in writing. I should think he wrote too much. I have seen
    verses of his which were very poor."

    [Mem. by F.C. I should think Ingham's grandfather wrote too
    much. I have seen letters of his which were very long, before they
    came to their subject.]

The letter continues:--

    "To return. The Serapis, as I have said, was but just built. She
    had been launched that spring. She was one of the first 44-gun
    frigates that were ever built in the world. We (the English) were
    the first naval power to build frigates, as now understood, at
    all. I believe the name is Italian, but in the Mediterranean it
    means a very different thing. We had little ships-of-the-line,
    which were called fourth-rates, and which fought sixty, and even
    as low as fifty guns; they had two decks, and a quarter-deck
    above. But just as I came into the service, the old Phoenix and
    Rainbow and Roebuck were the only 44s we had: they were successful
    ships, and they set the Admiralty on building 44-gun frigates,
    which, even when they carried 50 guns, as we did, were quite
    different from the old fourth-rates. Very useful vessels they
    proved. I remember the Romulus, the Ulysses, the Actæon, and the
    Endymion: the Endymion fought the President forty years after. As
    I say, the Serapis was one of a batch of these vessels launched in
    the spring of 1779.

    "We had been up the Cattegat that summer, waiting for what was
    known as the Baltic fleet.[I] If there were room and time, I could
    tell you good stories of the fun we had at Copenhagen. At last we
    got the convoy together, and got to sea,--no little job in that
    land-locked sailing. We got well across the North Sea, and, for
    some reason, made Sunderland first, and afterwards Scarborough.

    "We were lying close in with Scarborough, when news came off that
    Paul Jones, with a fleet, was on the coast. Captain Pearson at
    once tried to signal the convoy back,--for they were working down
    the coast towards the Humber,--but the signals did no good till
    they saw the enemy themselves, and then they scud fast enough,
    passing us, and running into Scarborough harbor. We had not a
    great deal of wind, and the other armed vessel we had, the
    Countess of Scarborough, was slow, so that I remember we lay to
    for her. Jones was as anxious as we were to fight. We neared each
    other steadily till seven in the evening or later. The sun was
    down, but it was full moon,--and as we came near enough to speak,
    we could see everything on his ship. At that time the Poor Richard
    was the only ship we had to do with. His other ships were after
    our consort. The Richard was a queer old French Indiaman, you
    know. She was the first French ship-of-war I had ever seen. She
    had six guns on her lower deck, and six ports on each side
    there,--meaning to fight all these guns on the same side. On her
    proper gun-deck, above these, she had fourteen guns on each
    side,--twelves and nines. Then she had a high quarter, and a high
    forecastle, with eight more guns on these,--having, you know, one
    of those queer old poops you see in old pictures. She was,
    therefore, a good deal higher than we; for our quarter-deck had
    followed the fashion and come down. We fought twenty guns on our
    lower deck, twenty on our upper deck, and on the forecastle and
    quarter-deck we had ten little things,--fifty guns,--not unusual,
    you know, in a vessel rated as a forty-four. We had twenty-two in
    broadside. I remember I supposed for some time that all French
    ships were black, because the Richard was.

    "As I said, I was on the main deck, aft. We were all lying
    stretched out in the larboard ports to see and hear what we could,
    when Captain Pearson himself hailed, "What ship is that?" I could
    not hear their answer, and he hailed again, and then said, if they
    did not answer, he would fire. We all took this as good as an
    order, and, hearing nothing, tumbled in and blazed away. The Poor
    Richard fired at the same time. It was at that first broadside of
    hers, as you remember, that two of Jones's heavy guns, below his
    main deck, burst. We could see that as we sighted for our next
    broadside, because we could see how they hove up the gun-deck
    above them. As for our shot, I suppose they all told. We had ten
    eighteen-pounders in that larboard battery below. I do not see why
    any shot should have failed.

    "However, he had no thought of being pounded to pieces by his own
    firing and ours, and so he bore right down on us. He struck our
    quarter, just forward of my forward gun,--struck us hard, too. We
    had just fired our second shot, and then he closed, so I could not
    bring our two guns to bear. This was when he first tried to fasten
    the ships together. But they would not stay fastened. He could not
    bring a gun to bear,--having no forward ports that served
    him,--till we fell off again, and it was then that Captain Pearson
    asked, in that strange stillness, if he had struck. Jones
    answered, 'I have not begun to fight.' And so it proved. Our sails
    were filled, he backed his top-sails, and we wore short round. As
    he laid us athwart-hawse, or as we swung by him, our jib-boom ran
    into his mizzen-rigging. They say Jones himself then fastened our
    boom to his mainmast. Somebody did, but it did not hold, but one
    of our anchors hooked his quarter, and so we fought, fastened
    together, to the end,--both now fighting our starboard batteries,
    and being fixed stern to stem.

    "On board the Serapis our ports were not open on the starboard
    side, because we had been firing on the other. And as we ran
    across and loosened those guns, the men amidships actually found
    they could not open their ports, the Richard was so close. They
    therefore fired their first shots right through our own port-lids,
    and blew them off. I was so far aft that my port-lids swung free.

    "What I said, in beginning this letter, will explain to you the
    long continuance of the action after this moment, when, you would
    say, it must be ended by boarding, or in some other way, very
    soon. As soon as we on our main deck got any idea of the Richard's
    main deck, we saw that almost nobody replied to us there. In
    truth, two of the six guns which made her lower starboard battery
    had burst, and Jones's men would not fight what were left, nor do
    I blame them. Above, their gun-deck had been hoisted up, and, as
    it proved the next day, we were cutting them right through. We
    pounded away at what we could see,--and much more at what we could
    not see,--for it was now night, and there was a little smoke, as
    you may fancy. But above, the Richard's upper deck was a good deal
    higher than ours, and there Jones had dragged across upon his
    quarter a piece from the larboard battery, so that he had three
    nine-pounders, with which he was doing his best, almost raking us,
    as you may imagine. No one ever said so to me, that I know, but I
    doubt whether we could get elevation enough from any of our light
    guns on our upper deck (nines) to damage his battery much, he was
    so much higher than we. As for musketry, there is not much
    sharp-shooting when you are firing at night in the smoke, with the
    decks swaying under you.

