The Roman Empire in the East did not long remain at the pinnacle of greatness to which Justinian
had raised it. His conquests, indeed, weakened rather than strengthened the empire, since now
there were much more extensive frontiers to defend. Within half a century after his death it
was attacked both in Europe and in Asia. The Lombards [9] soon seized Italy, and in the East
the Persians renewed their contest against the Roman power.

PERSIANS

The struggle with the Persians was an inheritance from earlier times. [10] Under an ambitious
king, Chosroes II, the Persians overran all the Asiatic provinces of the empire. A savior arose,
however, in the person of the Roman emperor, Heraclius (610-641 A.D.). His brilliant campaigns
against Chosroes partook of the nature of a crusade, or "holy war," for the Persians had violated
the Holy Sepulcher at Jerusalem and had stolen away the True Cross, the most sacred relic of
Christendom. Heraclius recovered all his provinces, but only at the cost of a bloody struggle
which drained them of men and money and helped to make them fall easy victims to foes still
more terrible than the Persians. These were the Arabs.

ARABS

Heraclius had not closed his reign before he saw all his victories undone by the advance of
the Arabs. The first wave of invasion tore away Syria and Egypt from the empire, penetrated
Asia Minor, and reached the shores of the Bosporus. Repulsed before the walls of Constantinople,
the Arabs carried their arms to the West and seized North Africa, Spain, part of southern Italy,
and the Mediterranean islands. Asia Minor and the Balkan peninsula still held out, however,
and during the tenth century a line of able rulers at Constantinople succeeded in winning back
some of their lost provinces.

SELJUK TURKS

During the eleventh century the empire had to face new enemies. These were the Seljuk Turks,
[11] fierce nomads from the steppes beyond the Caspian. After their conversion to Mohammedanism,
they swept with irresistible force through the East and conquered nearly all Asia Minor. The
ruin of this country, in earlier ages one of the most populous and flourishing regions of the
world, dates from its occupation by the Seljuks. To resist their further advance the Roman
emperor sought in 1095 A.D. the help of the Christians of Europe. His appeals for aid resulted
in the First Crusade, with which a new chapter of medieval history began. (See Chapter XX.)

WORK OF THE EMPIRE IN ASIA

Thus, for more than five centuries after Justinian, the Roman Empire in the East was engaged
in a long struggle with the foes--Persians, Arabs, and Seljuk Turks--which successively attacked
its dominions. By its stubborn resistance of the advance of the invaders the old empire protected
the young states of Europe from attack, until they grew strong enough to meet and repulse the
hordes of Asia. This service to civilization was not less important than that which had been
performed by Greece and Rome in their contests with the Persians and the Carthaginians.

117. THE EMPIRE AND ITS FOES IN EUROPE

SLAVS

The troubled years after Justinian's death also witnessed the beginning of the Slavic [12]
settlements in southeastern Europe. The Slavs belonged to the Indo-European race, but had not
progressed in civilization as far as the Germans. Their cradle land seems to have been in western
Russia, whence they slowly spread to the Baltic, the Elbe, and the Danube. We have already
mentioned the campaigns which Charlemagne and Henry the Fowler waged against them. [13] The
emperors at Constantinople were less successful in resisting that branch of the Slavs which
tried to occupy the Balkan peninsula. After crossing the Danube, the Slavs pressed on farther
and farther, until they reached the southern extremity of ancient Greece. They avoided the
cities, but formed peasant communities in the open country, where they readily mingled with
the inhabitants. Their descendants have remained in the Balkan peninsula to this day. The inhabitants
of modern Serbia [14] are Slavs, and even in the Greeks there is a considerable strain of Slavic
blood.

BULGARIANS

The Bulgarians, a people akin to the Huns and Avars, made their appearance south of the lower
Danube in the seventh century. For more than three hundred years these barbarians, brutal,
fierce, and cruel, were a menace to the empire. At one time they threatened Constantinople
and even killed a Roman emperor, whose skull was converted into a drinking cup to grace their
feasts. The Bulgarians settled in the region which now bears their name and gradually adopted
the speech and customs of the Slavs. Modern Bulgaria is essentially a Slavic state.

RUSSIANS

The empire was attacked in southeastern Europe by still other barbarians, among whom were the
Russians. This Slavic people, led by chieftains from Sweden, descended the Dnieper and Dniester
rivers and, crossing the Black Sea, appeared before the walls of Constantinople. Already, in
the tenth century, that city formed the goal of Russian ambitions. The invaders are said to
have made four attempts to plunder its treasures. Though unsuccessful, they compelled the emperors
from time to time to pay them tribute.

WORK OF THE EMPIRE IN EUROPE

Christianity reached the invaders of the Balkan peninsula from Constantinople. The Serbians,
Bulgarians, and Russians were converted in the ninth and tenth centuries. With Christianity
they received the use of letters and some knowledge of Roman law and methods of government.
Constantinople was to them, henceforth, such a center of religion and culture as Rome was to
the Germans. By becoming the teacher of the vast Slavic peoples of the Balkan peninsula and
European Russia, the empire performed another important service to civilization.

118. BYZANTINE CIVILIZATION

STRENGTH AND WEALTH OF THE EMPIRE

The Roman Empire in the East, though often menaced by barbarian foes, long continued to be
the leading European power. Its highest degree of prosperity was reached between the middle
of the ninth and the middle of the eleventh century. The provinces in Asia Minor and the Balkan
peninsula produced a vast annual revenue, much of which went for defense. It was necessary
to maintain a large, well-disciplined army, great fleets and engines of war, and the extensive
fortifications of Constantinople and the frontier cities. Confronted by so many dangers, the
empire could hope to survive only by making itself a strong military state.

COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY

The merchant ships of Constantinople, during the earlier part of the Middle Ages, carried on
most of the commerce of the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. The products of Byzantine industry,
including silks, embroideries, mosaics, enamels, and metal work, were exchanged at that city
for the spices, drugs, and precious stones of the East. Byzantine wares also found their way
into Italy and France and, by way of the Russian rivers, reached the heart of eastern Europe.
Russia, in turn, furnished Constantinople with large quantities of honey, wax, fur, wool, grain,
and slaves. A traveler of the twelfth century well described the city as a metropolis "common
to all the world, without distinction of country or religion."

CHARACTER OF BYZANTINE ART

Many of the Roman emperors from Justinian onward were great builders. Byzantine architecture,
seen especially in the churches, became a leading form of art. Its most striking feature is
the dome, which replaces the flat, wooden roof used in the basilican [15] Churches of Italy.
The exterior of a Byzantine church is plain and unimposing, but the interior is adorned on
a magnificent scale. The eyes of the worshiper are dazzled by the walls faced with marble slabs
of variegated colors, by the columns of polished marble, jasper, and porphyry, and by the brilliant
mosaic pictures of gilded glass. The entire impression is one of richness and splendor. Byzantine
artists, though mediocre painters and sculptors, excelled in all kinds of decorative work.
Their carvings in wood, ivory, and metal, together with their embroideries, enamels, and miniatures,
enjoyed a high reputation throughout medieval Europe.

INFLUENCE OF BYZANTINE ART

Byzantine art, from the sixth century to the present time, has exerted a wide influence. Sicily,
southern Italy, Rome, Ravenna, and Venice contain many examples of Byzantine churches. Italian
painting in the Middle Ages seems to have been derived directly from the mosaic pictures of
the artists of Constantinople. Russia received not only its religion but also its art from
Constantinople. The great Russian churches of Moscow and Petrograd follow Byzantine models.
Even the Arabs, in spite of their hostility to Christianity, borrowed Byzantine artists and
profited by their services. The Mohammedan mosques of Damascus, Cairo, and Cordova, both in
methods of construction and in details of ornamentation, reproduce Byzantine styles.

LITERATURE AND LEARNING

The libraries and museums of Constantinople preserved classical learning. In the flourishing
schools of that city the wisest men of the day taught philosophy, law, medicine, and science
to thousands of students. The professors figured among the important persons of the court:
official documents mention the "prince of the rhetoricians" and the "consul of the philosophers."
Many of the emperors showed a taste for scholarship; one of them was said to have been so devoted
to study that he almost forgot to reign. When kings in western Europe were so ignorant that
they could with difficulty scrawl their names, eastern emperors wrote books and composed poetry.
It is true that Byzantine scholars were erudite rather than original. Impressed by the great
treasures of knowledge about them, they found it difficult to strike out into new, unbeaten
paths. Most students were content to make huge collections of extracts and notes from the books
which antiquity had bequeathed to them. Even this task was useful, however, for their encyclopedias
preserved much information which otherwise would have been lost. During the Middle Ages the
East cherished the productions of classical learning, until the time came when the West was
ready to receive them and to profit by them.

119. CONSTANTINOPLE

POSITION OF CONSTANTINOPLE

The heart of Byzantine civilization was Constantinople. The city lies on a peninsula between
the Sea of Marmora and the spacious harbor called the Golden Horn. Washed on three sides by
the water and, like Rome, enthroned upon seven hills, Constantinople occupies a site justly
celebrated as the noblest in the world. It stands in Europe, looks on Asia, and commands the
entrance to both the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. As a sixteenth century writer pointed
out, Constantinople "is a city which Nature herself has designed to be the mistress of the world."

CONSTANTINOPLE AS A NATURAL CITADEL

The position of Constantinople made it difficult to attack but easy to defend. To surround
the city an enemy would have to be strong upon both land and sea. A hostile army, advancing
through Asia Minor, found its further advance arrested by the long, winding channel which the
Bosporus, the Sea of Marmora, and the Dardanelles combine to form. A hostile fleet, coming
by way of the Mediterranean or the Black Sea, faced grave difficulties in attempting to penetrate
the narrow strait into which this waterway contracts at each extremity. On the landward side
the line of defense was so short--about four miles in width--that it could be strongly fortified
and held by a small force against large numbers. During the Middle Ages the rear of the city
was protected by two huge walls, the remains of which are still visible. Constantinople, in
fact, was all but impregnable. Though each new century brought a fresh horde of enemies, it
resisted siege after siege and long continued to be the capital of what was left of the Roman
Empire. [16]

MONUMENTS OF CONSTANTINOPLE

Constantine had laid out his new city on an imposing scale and adorned it with the choicest
treasures of art from Greece, Italy, and the Orient. Fourteen churches, fourteen palaces, eight
public baths, and several triumphal arches are assigned to the founder of the city. His most
stately building was the Hippodrome, an immense structure devoted to chariot races and all
sorts of popular gatherings. There new emperors, after their consecration in Sancta Sophia,
were greeted by their subjects; there civic festivals were held; and there the last Roman triumphs
were celebrated. Theodosius the Great built the principal gate of Constantinople, the "Golden
Gate," as it was called, by which the emperors made their solemn entry into the city. But it
was Justinian who, after Constantine, did most to adorn the new capital by the Bosporus. He
is said to have erected more than twenty-five churches in Constantinople and its suburbs. Of
these, the most beautiful is the world-famed cathedral dedicated by Justinian to "Holy Wisdom."
On its completion the emperor declared that he had surpassed Solomon's Temple. Though nearly
fourteen hundred years old and now defaced by vandal hands, it remains perhaps the supreme
achievement of Christian architecture.

HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE OF CONSTANTINOPLE

Excepting Athens and Rome, no other European city can lay claim to so long and so important
a history as Constantinople. Her day came after theirs was done. Throughout the Middle Ages
Constantinople remained the most important city in Europe. When London, Paris, and Vienna were
small and mean towns, Constantinople was a large and flourishing metropolis. The renown of
the city penetrated even into barbarian lands. The Scandinavians called it Micklegarth, the
"Great City"; the Russians knew of it as Tsarigrad, the "City of the Caesars." But its own
people best described it as the "City guarded by God." Here, for more than eleven centuries,
was the capital of the Roman Empire and the center of Eastern Christendom.

STUDIES

1. Compare the area of the Roman Empire in the East in 395 A.D. with its area in 800 A.D. (maps
between pages 222-223 and facing page 308).

2. Compare the respective areas in 800 A.D. of the Roman Empire in the East and Charlemagne's
empire.

3. On the map, page 338, locate Adrianople, Gallipoli, Nicaea, the Bosporus, Sea of Marmora,
and Dardanelles.

4. Who were Belisarius, Chosroes II, and Heraclius?

5. In your opinion which of the two rival imperial lines after 800 A.D. had the better title
to represent ancient Rome?

6. Why has Justinian been called the "lawgiver of civilization"?

7. Why was it necessary to codify Roman law? Is the English Common law codified?

8. Compare the work of Alexandrian and Byzantine scholars in preserving learning.

9. "The Byzantines were the teachers of the Slavs, as the Romans were of the Germans." Comment
on this statement.

10. The Byzantine Empire was once called "a gigantic mass of mould, a thousand years old."
Does this seem a fair description?

11. "The history of medieval civilization is, in large measure, the history of the Roman Empire
in the East." Comment on this statement.

12. Show that Constantinople formed "a natural citadel."

13. On the map, page 340, trace the successive walls of Constantinople.

FOOTNOTES

[1] The fall of the empire came in 1453 A.D., when Constantinople was captured by the Ottoman
Turks.

[2] See pages 311-312, 317-318.

[3] See page 245.

[4] See page 300.

[5] See page 244.

[6] See the map, page 301.

[7] Roman law still prevails in the province of Quebec and the state of Louisiana, territories
formerly under French control, and in all the Spanish-American countries.

[8] In Greek, Hagia Sophia, "Holy Wisdom."

[9] See page 302.

[10] See page 219.

[11] So named from one of their leaders.

[12] The word slova means "speech"; the Slavs are those who speak the same language.

[13] See pages 309, 315.

[14] A more accurate designation than Servia. Originally, all Slavic peoples called themselves
Serbs.

[15] See page 284.

[16] Of the eight sieges to which Constantinople was subjected in medieval times, only two
succeeded. In 1204 A.D. it was captured by the Venetians and in 1453 A.D., by the Ottoman Turks.
See pages 477 and 492.

CHAPTER XV

THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH IN THE EAST AND IN THE WEST TO 1054 A.D. [1]

120. DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH

THE CATHOLIC CHURCH

A preceding chapter has traced the early history of Christianity. We there saw how the new
religion appeared in the Orient, how it spread rapidly over the Roman Empire, how it engaged
with the imperial government in the long conflict called the Persecutions, how the emperor
Constantine, after his conversion, placed it on an equality with paganism, and how at the end
of the fourth century the emperor Theodosius made it the state religion. By this time the Church
had become a great and powerful organization, with fixed laws, with a graded system of officers,
and with councils attended by clergy from all parts of the Roman world. To this organization
the word Catholic, that is, "universal," came to be applied. Membership in the Catholic Church,
secured only by baptism, was believed to be essential to salvation. As St. Cyprian, bishop
of Carthage, had said, "He can no longer have God for his Father who has not the Church for
his Mother."

THE EPISCOPATE

The first three centuries of Christianity witnessed the development of the episcopal system
in the Church. Each provincial city had its bishop, assisted by priests and deacons. An archbishop
(sometimes called a metropolitan) presided over the bishops of each province, and a patriarch
had jurisdiction, in turn, over metropolitans. This graded arrangement of ecclesiastical officers,
from the lowest to the highest, helped to make the Church centralized and strong. It appears
to have been modeled, almost unconsciously, on the government of the Roman Empire. [2]

THE PATRIARCHS

The development of the patriarchate calls for special notice. At the time of the Council of
Nicaea [3] there were three patriarchs, namely, the bishops of Rome, Antioch, and Alexandria.
These cities ranked among the most important in the Roman world. It was only natural, therefore,
that the churches established in them should be singled out for preeminence. Some years after
the removal of the capital to Constantinople, the bishop of that imperial city was recognized
as a patriarch at a general council of the Church. In the fifth century the bishop of Jerusalem
received the same dignity. Henceforth there were five patriarchs--four in the East but only
one in the West.

CLERGY AND LAITY

The Christian Church was a very democratic organization. Patriarchs, archbishops, bishops,
priests, and deacons were drawn from all ranks of life. No special training at first was considered
necessary to fit them for their duties, though the more celebrated ministers were often highly
educated. To eke out their salaries the clergy sometimes carried on business as farmers and
shopkeepers. Where, however, a church had sufficient funds to support its bishop, his engagement
in secular affairs was discouraged and finally prohibited. In the fourth century, as earlier,
priests and bishops were generally married men. The sentiment in favor of celibacy for the
clergy became very pronounced during the early Middle Ages, especially in the West, and led
at length to the general abandonment of priestly marriage in those parts of Europe where papal
influence prevailed. Distinctive garments for clergymen did not begin to come into use until
the fifth century, when some of them began to don clothing of a more sober hue than was fashionable
at the time. Clerical vestments were developed from two pieces of ancient Roman dress--the
tunic and the toga. [4] Thus the clergy were gradually separated from the people, or laity,
by differences in dress, by their celibate lives, and by their abstention from worldly occupations.

HERESIES

While the Church was perfecting her organization, she was also elaborating her doctrines. Theologians
engaged in many controversies upon such subjects as the connection of Christ with God and the
nature of the Trinity. In order to obtain an authoritative expression of Christian opinion,
councils of the higher clergy were held, at which the opposing views were debated and a decision
was reached. The Council of Nicaea, which condemned Arianism, formed the first, and one of
the most important, of these general gatherings of the Church. After the Church had once expressed
itself on any matter of Christian belief, it was regarded as unlawful to maintain a contrary
opinion. Those who did so were called heretics, and their teachings, heresies. The emperor
Theodosius, whose severe laws finally shattered the ancient paganism, [5] devoted even more
attention to stamping out heresies among his Christian subjects. He prohibited meetings of
heretics, burned their books, and threatened them with death if they persisted in their peculiar
doctrines. During his reign a Spanish bishop and six of his partisans were executed for holding
unorthodox beliefs. This was the beginning of the persecutions for heresy.

WORSHIP

As soon as Christianity had triumphed in the Roman Empire, thus becoming the religion of the
rich and powerful as well as the religion of the poor and lowly, more attention was devoted
to the conduct of worship. Magnificent church buildings were often erected. Their architects
seem to have followed as models the basilicas, or public halls, which formed so familiar a
sight in Roman cities. [6] Church interiors were adorned with paintings, mosaic pictures, images
of saints and martyrs, and the figure of the cross. Lighted candles on the altars and the burning
of fragrant incense lent an additional impressiveness to worship. Beautiful prayers and hymns
were composed. Some of the early Christian hymns, such as the Gloria in Excelsis and the Te
Deum Laudamus, are still sung in our churches. Organs did not come into use until the seventh
century, and then only in the West, but church bells, summoning the worshiper to divine service,
early became attached to Christian edifices.

SUNDAY

The Christians from the start appear to have observed "the first day of the week" [7] in memory
of Christ's resurrection. They attended public worship on the Lord's Day, but otherwise did
not rigidly abstain from worldly business and amusements. The Jewish element in some churches,
and especially in the East, was strong enough to secure an additional observance of Saturday
as a weekly festival. Saturday long continued to be marked by religious assemblies and feasting,
though not by any compulsory cessation of the ordinary occupations. During the fourth century
Sunday, as the Lord's Day was now generally called, came more and more to be kept as a day
of obligatory rest. Constantine's Sunday law [8] formed the first of a long series of imperial
edicts imposing the observance of that day as a legal duty. In this manner Sunday, like the
Jewish Sabbath on the seventh day of the week, was dedicated wholly to the exercises of religion.

FESTIVALS

The great yearly festivals of the Church gradually took shape during the early Christian centuries.
The most important anniversary to be observed was Easter, in memory of the resurrection of
Christ. A period of fasting (Lent), which finally lasted forty days, preceded the festival.
Whitsunday, or Pentecost, was celebrated on the fiftieth day after Easter. [9] Two other festivals
of later adoption were Christmas, the celebration of which was finally assigned to the 25th
of December, [10] and Epiphany (January 6), commemorating the baptism of Christ. In course
of time many other feasts and fasts, together with numerous saints' days, were added to the
calendar of the "Christian Year."

121. EASTERN CHRISTIANITY

EXPANSION OF CHRISTIANITY IN THE EAST

By the time of Constantine, Christianity had spread widely throughout the eastern half of the
Roman Empire. Asia Minor was then largely Christian. Thrace, Macedonia, Epirus, and Greece
were all ecclesiastical provinces with their own metropolitans. Many Christians were found
in Syria and Egypt. Churches also existed in Mesopotamia and Arabia, and even beyond the boundaries
of the empire in Armenia and Persia. Between the time of Constantine and that of Justinian,
Christianity continued to expand in the East, until the gospel had been carried to such distant
regions as Abyssinia and India.

UNION OF CHURCH AND STATE

Most of the Christian communities in the Orient owed allegiance to the patriarchs of Constantinople,
Jerusalem, Antioch, and Alexandria. The Roman emperor, however, was the supreme religious authority
in the East. He felt it as much his duty to maintain the doctrines and organization of Christianity
as to preserve the imperial dominions against foreign foes. Since he presided over the Church,
there could be no real independence for its officers. Bishops, metropolitans, and patriarchs
were in every respect subordinate to his will. This union of Church and State formed one of
the most characteristic features of Christianity in the East.

THEOLOGICAL DISPUTES; HERESIES

Eastern Christians, far more than those in the West, devoted themselves to theological speculations.
Constantinople and the great Hellenistic cities of Antioch and Alexandria contained many learned
scholars who had prolonged and heated arguments over subtle questions of belief. After the
Arian controversy had been settled in the fourth century, other disputes concerning the true
nature of Christ broke out. These gave rise to many heresies.

NESTORIANISM

The heresy known as Nestorianism, from Nestorius, a patriarch of Constantinople, spread widely
in the East. Nestorian missionaries even penetrated to India, China, and Mongolia. The churches
which they established were numerous and influential during the Middle Ages, but since then
most of them have been destroyed by the Mohammedans. Members of this sect are still to be found,
however, in eastern lands. [11]

ORTHODOXY

After the formation of the Nestorian and other heretical sects, the orthodox faith was preserved
in the East only by the Greeks of Asia Minor and Europe. The Greek Church, which calls itself
the "Holy Orthodox Church," for a time remained in unity with the Roman Church in the West.
The final separation of these two churches occurred in the eleventh century. [12]

122. WESTERN CHRISTIANITY: RISE OF THE PAPACY

THE PAPACY

Christianity in the West presented two sharp contrasts to eastern Christianity. In the first
place, the great heresies which divided the East scarcely affected the West. In the second
place, no union of Church and State existed among western Christians. Instead of acknowledging
the religious supremacy of the emperor at Constantinople, they yielded obedience to the bishop
of Rome, the head of the Roman Church. He is known to us as the pope, and his office is called
the Papacy. We shall now inquire how the popes secured their unchallenged authority over western
Christendom.

ROME AN APOSTOLIC CHURCH

A church in Rome must have been established at an early date, for it was to Roman Christians
that St. Paul addressed one of the Epistles now preserved in the New Testament. St. Paul visited
Rome, as we know from the Acts of the Apostles, and there he is said to have suffered martyrdom.
Christian tradition, very ancient and very generally received, declares that St. Peter also
labored in Rome, where he met a martyr's death, perhaps during the reign of the emperor Nero.
To the early Christians, therefore, the Roman Church must have seemed in the highest degree
sacred, for it had been founded by the two greatest apostles and had been nourished by their blood.

ROME A "MOTHER-CHURCH"

Another circumstance helped to give the Roman Church a superior position in the West. It was
a vigorous missionary church. Rome, the largest and most flourishing city in the empire and
the seat of the imperial government, naturally became the center from which Christianity spread
over the western provinces. Many of the early Christian communities planted in Spain, Gaul,
and Africa owed their start to the missionary zeal of the Roman Church. To Rome, as the great
"Mother-church," her daughters in western Europe would turn henceforth with reverence and affection;
they would readily acknowledge her leading place among the churches; and they would seek her
advice on disputed points of Christian belief or worship.

THE ROMAN CHURCH INDEPENDENT

The independence of the Roman Church also furthered its development. The bishop of Rome was
the sole patriarch in the West, while in the East there were two, and later four patriarchs,
each exercising authority in religious matters. Furthermore, the removal of the capital from
Rome to Constantinople helped to free the Roman bishop from the close oversight of the imperial
government. He was able, henceforth, to promote the interests of the church under his control
without much interference on the part of the eastern emperor.

THE ROMAN CHURCH ORTHODOX

Finally, it must be noted how much the development of the Roman Church was aided by its attitude
on disputed questions of belief. While eastern Christendom was torn by theological controversies,
the Church of Rome stood firmly by the Nicene Creed. [13] After the Arian, Nestorian, and other
heresies were finally condemned, orthodox Christians felt indebted to the Roman Church for
its unwavering championship of "the faith once delivered to the saints." They were all the
more ready, therefore, to defer to that church in matters of doctrine and to accept without
question its spiritual authority.

THE PETRINE SUPREMACY

The claim of the Roman bishops to supremacy over the Christian world had a double basis. Certain
passages in the New Testament, where St. Peter is represented as the rock on which the Church
is built, the pastor of the sheep and lambs of the Lord, and the doorkeeper of the kingdom
of heaven, appear to indicate that he was regarded by Christ as the chief of the Apostles.
Furthermore, a well-established tradition made St. Peter the founder of the Roman Church and
its first bishop. It was then argued that he passed to his successors, the popes, all his rights
and dignity. As St. Peter was the first among the Apostles, so the popes were to be the first
among bishops. Such was the doctrine of the Petrine supremacy, expressed as far back as the
second century, strongly asserted by many popes during the Middle Ages, and maintained to-day
by the Roman Church.

123. GROWTH OF THE PAPACY

PONTIFICATE OF LEO I, 440-461 A.D.

Up to the middle of the fifth century about forty-five bishops had occupied St. Peter's chair
at Rome. The most eminent these was Leo the Great. When he became bishop, the Germans were
overrunning the western provinces of the empire. The invaders professed the Arian faith, as
we have seen, and often persecuted the orthodox Christians among whom they settled. At such
a time, when the imperial power was growing weaker, faithful Catholics in the West naturally
turned for support to the bishop of Rome. Leo became their champion against the barbarians.
Tradition declares that he succeeded in diverting Attila from an attack on Rome, and when the
Vandals sacked the city Leo also intervened to prevent its destruction. [14]

PONTIFICATE OF GREGORY I, 590-604 A.D.

After Leo, no important name occurs in the list of popes until we come to Gregory the Great.
Gregory, as the son of a rich and distinguished Roman senator, enjoyed a good education in
all the learning of the time. He entered public life and at an early age became prefect of
Rome. But now, almost at the outset of his career, Gregory laid aside earthly ambition. He
gave up his honorable position and spent the fortune, inherited from his father, in the foundation
of monasteries and the relief of the poor. He himself became a monk, turned his palace at Rome
into a monastery, and almost ruined his health by too great devotion to fasts and midnight
vigils. Gregory's conspicuous talents, however, soon called him from retirement and led to
his election as pope.

TEMPORAL POWER OF GREGORY

The work of Gregory lay principally in two directions. As a statesman he did much to make the
popes virtual sovereigns at Rome and in Italy. At this time the Italian peninsula, overrun
by the Lombards and neglected by the eastern emperor, was in a deplorable condition. The bishop
of Rome seemed to be the only man who could protect the people and maintain order. Gregory
had very great success in this task. He appointed governors of cities, issued orders to generals,
drilled the Romans for military defense, and sent ambassadors to treat with the king of the
Lombards. It was largely owing to Gregory's efforts that these barbarians were prevented from
conquering central Italy.

GREGORY'S SPIRITUAL AUTHORITY

Gregory was no less eminent as a churchman. His writings and his personal influence greatly
furthered the advancement of the Roman Church in the West. We find him sternly repressing heresies
wherever they arose, aiding the conversion of Arian Visigoths in Spain and Arian Lombards in
Italy, and sending out monks as missionaries to distant Britain. [15] He well deserved by these
labors the title "Servant of the servants of God," [16] which he assumed, and which the popes
after him have retained. The admiration felt for his character and abilities raised him, in
later ages, to the rank of a saint.

POSITION OF THE PAPACY

When Gregory the Great closed his remarkable career, the Papacy had reached a commanding place
in western Christendom. To their spiritual authority the popes had now begun to add some measure
of temporal power as rulers at Rome and in Italy. During the eighth century, as we have already
learned, [17] the alliance of the popes and the Franks helped further to establish the Papacy
as an ecclesiastical monarchy, ruling over both the souls and bodies of men. Henceforth it
was to go forward from strength to strength.

124. MONASTICISM

THE MONASTIC SPIRIT

The Papacy during the Middle Ages found its strongest supporters among the monks. By the time
of Gregory the Great monasticism [18] was well established in the Christian Church. Its origin
must be sought in the need, often felt by spiritually-minded men, of withdrawing from the world
--from its temptations and its transitory pleasures--to a life of solitude, prayer, and religious
contemplation. Joined to this feeling has been the conviction that the soul may be purified
by subduing the desires and passions of the body. Men, influenced by the monastic spirit, sought
a closer approach to God.

EARLY CHRISTIAN MONASTICISM

