When the above answer was returned to the prince, there were present, The Duke of B.--The Earl
of L.--The Earl of S.--The Earl of T.--The Earl of W.--The Earl of S.--Lord F.--Lord W.--Sir
Wat. Wil. Wynne.--Sir John H. C--Sir Walter B.--Sir Robert G.--Mr. F.--Mr. F.--Mr. C.]

[Footnote 547: Note 4 K, p. 547.

Ultimo die Octobris anno ab incarnationo

MDCCLX.

Auspicatissimo principe Georgio Tertio

Regnnm jam ineunte,

Pontis hujus, in reipublicæ commodum

Urbisque majestatem

(Latè turn flagrante bello)

à S. P. Q. L. suscepti,

Primum lapidem posuit

Thomas Chitty, miles,

Prætor;

Roberto Mylne, architecte

Utque apud posteros extet monumentum

Voluntatis suæ erga virum,

Qui vigore ingenii, animi constantia,

Probitatis et virtutis suæ felici quâdam contagione,

(Favente Deo,

Fautisque Georgii Secundi auspiciis!)

Imperium Britannicum

In Asia, Africa, et America

Restituit, auxit, et stabilivit;

Necnon patriæ antiquum honorem et auctoritateni

Inter Europæ gentes instauravit;

Gives Londinenses, uno consensu,

Huic ponti inscribi voluerunt nomen

GULIELMI PITT.]

[Footnote 549: Note 4 L, p. 549. This attempt was conducted in the following manner, having
doubtless been concerted with the two-and-twenty hostages who resided in the fort. On the sixteenth
day of February, two Indian women appearing at Keowee, on the other side of the river, Mr.
Dogharty, one of the officers of the fort, went out to ask them what news. While he was engaged
in conversation with these females, the great Indian warrior Ocunnastota joined them, desired
he would call the commanding officer, to whom he said he had something to propose. Accordingly,
lieutenant Cotymore appearing, accompanied by ensign Bell, Dogharty, and Foster the interpreter,
Ocunnastota told him he had something of consequence to impart to the governor, whom he proposed
to visit, and desired he might be attended by a white man as a safeguard. The lieutenant assuring
him he should have a safeguard, the Indian declared he would then go and catch a horse for
him; so saying, he swung a bridle twice over his head, as a signal; and immediately twenty-five
or thirty muskets, from different ambuscades, were discharged at the English officers. Mr.
Cotymore received a shot in his left breast, and in a few days expired: Mr. Bell was wounded
in the calf of the left leg, and the interpreter in the buttock. Ensign Milne, who remained
in the fort, was no sooner informed of this treachery, than he ordered the soldiers to shackle
the hostages; in the execution of which order one man was killed on the spot, and another wounded
in his forehead with a tomahawk; circumstances which, added to the murder of the lieutenant,
incensed the garrison to such a degree, that it was judged absolutely necessary to put the
hostages to death without further hesitation. In the evening a party of Indians approached
the fort, and firing two signal pieces, cried aloud in the Cherokee language--"Fight manfully,
and you shall be assisted." They then began an attack; and continued firing all night upon
the fort, without doing the least execution. That a design was concerted between them and the
hostages appeared plainly from the nature of the assault; and this suspicion was converted
into a certainty next day, when some of the garrison, searching the apartment in which the
hostages lay, found a bottle of poison, probably designed to be emptied into the well, and
several tomahawks buried in the earth; which weapons had been privately conveyed to them by
their friends, who were permitted to visit them without interruption. On the third day of March,
the fort of Ninety-six was attacked by two hundred Cherokee Indians with musketry, which had
little or no effect; so that they were forced to retire with some loss, and revenged themselves
on the open country, burning and ravaging all the houses and plantations belonging to English
settlers in this part of the country, and all along the frontiers of Virginia. Not contented
with pillaging and destroying the habitations, they wantoned in the most horrible barbarities;
and their motions were so secret and sudden, that it was impossible for the inhabitants to
know where the storm would burst, or take proper precautions for their own defence; so that
a great number of the back settlements were totally abandoned.]

