THE ELSON READERS

BOOK FIVE

WILLIAM H. ELSON AND CHRISTINE M. KECK

PREFACE

This book is based on the belief that an efficient reader for the fifth grade must score high
when tested on five fundamental features: quality of literature; variety of literature; organization
of literature; quantity of literature; and definite helps sufficient to make the text a genuine
tool for classroom use.

Quality Literature:

First among these features is the essential that the foundation of the book must be the acknowledged
masterpieces of American and British authors. American boys and girls may be depended upon
to read current magazines and newspapers, but if they are ever to have their taste and judgment
of literary values enriched by familiarity with the classics of our literature, the schools
must provide the opportunity. This ideal does not mean the exclusion of well established present-day
writers, but it does mean that the core of the school reader should be the rich literary heritage
that has won recognition for its enduring value. Moreover, these masterpieces must come to
the pupil in complete units, not in mere excerpts or garbled "cross-sections"; for the pupil
in his school life should gain some real literary possessions.

A study of the contents of The Elson Readers, Book Five, will show how consistently its authors
have based the book on this sound test of quality. The works of the acknowledged "makers" of
our literature have been abundantly drawn upon to furnish a foundation of great stories and
poems, gripping in interest and well within the powers of child-appreciation in this grade.

Variety of Literature:

Variety is fundamental to a well-rounded course of reading. If the school reader is to provide
for all the purposes that a collection of literature for this grade should serve, it must contain
material covering at least the following types: (1) literature representing both British and
American authors; (2) some of the best modern poetry and prose as well as the literature of
the past; (3) important race stories--great epics--and world-stories of adventure; (4) patriotic
literature, rich in ideals of home and country, loyalty and service, thrift, cooperation, and
citizenship--ideals of which American children gained, during the World War, a new conception
that the school reader should perpetuate; (5) literature suited to festival occasions, particularly
those celebrated in the schools: Armistice Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas, Arbor Day and
Bird Day, anniversaries of the birthdays of Lincoln and Washington, as well as of Longfellow
and other great American authors; (6) literature of the seasons, Nature, and out-of-door life;
(7) literature of humor that will enliven the reading and cultivate the power to discriminate
between wholesome humor--an essential part of life--and crude humor, so prevalent in the pupil's
outside reading; (8) adventure stories both imaginative and real; (9) literature suited to
dramatization, providing real project material.

This book offers a well-rounded course of reading covering all the types mentioned above. Especially
by means of groups of stories and poems that portray love of home and its festivals, love of
our free country and its flag, and unselfish service to others, this book makes a stirring
appeal to good citizenship. Moreover, it will be noted that wholesome ethical ideals pervade
the literature throughout.

Organization of Literature:

The literature of a school reader, if it is to do effective work, must be purposefully organized.
Sound organization groups into related units the various selections that center about a common
theme. This arrangement enables the pupil to see the larger dominant ideas of the book as a
whole, instead of looking upon it as a confused scrapbook of miscellaneous selections. Such
arrangement also fosters literary comparison by bringing together selections having a common
theme or authorship.

This book has been so organized as to fulfill these purposes. There are three main Parts, each
distinguished by unity of theme or authorship. Part I, leading from a wholesome appreciation
of Nature, particularly in its American setting, centers mainly about the important themes
of patriotism, service, and good citizenship; Part II introduces some of the great tales that
typify our love of stirring deeds; Part III presents some of our greatest American authors
at sufficient length to make them stand out to the pupil. Through these grouped selections,
together with the accompanying biographies, pupils may come to be familiar with and love some
of the great company of writers that have made the name of America known in the world of literature.

Attention is called to three special features that keep the dominant theme of each Part clearly
in the foreground: (1) "A Forward Look" and "A Backward Look" for each main division and important
subdivisions emphasize the larger theme, and show how each selection contributes to the group-idea
(see pages 19, 56, etc.); (2) the Notes and Questions frequently call the pupil's attention
to the relation the selection bears to the main thought (see pages 39, 75, etc.); (3) the three
main divisions, and the subordinate groups within each main unit, are made to stand out clearly
by illustrations that typify the theme (see pages 18, 21, etc.) and by topical headings that
enable the pupil to visualize the group-units. By these three means the organization of the
book is emphasized, and fundamental ideals are kept dominant.

Quality of Literature:

Obviously, a book that is to supply the pupil with a year's course in literature must be a
generous volume. Variety is impossible without quantity, especially where literary wholes rather
than mere fragmentary excerpts are offered. Particularly is this true when complete units are
included not only for intensive study, but also for extensive reading--longer units, of the
so-called "paper classics" type, to be read mainly for the story-element. In bulk such units
should be as large as the pupil can control readily in rapid silent reading, a kind of reading
that increases the power to enjoy with intelligence a magazine or a book.

The Elson Readers, Book Five, is a generous volume in provision for these needs. Its inclusiveness
makes possible a proper balance between prose and poetry, between long and short selections,
and between material for intensive and extensive reading.

Definite Helps:

If the pupil is to gain the full benefit from his reading, certain definite helps must be provided.
An efficient reader must score a high test not only on the fundamentals of quality, variety,
organization and quantity of literature, but also on its fitness as a tool for classroom use.
The effectiveness of this Reader as such a tool may be indicated by the following distinguishing
features:

(1) A distinctive introduction, "The Crystal Glass" (see page 13), gives the pupil an illuminating
interpretation of the organization and literary content of the volume.

(2) Definite suggestions for developing speed and concentration in silent reading. (See pages
21, 30, 34, 163, etc.)

(3) A comprehensive Glossary (pages 399-418) contains the words and phrases that offer valuable
vocabulary training, either of pronunciation or meaning. The teacher is free to use the Glossary
according to the needs of her particular class, but suggestive type words and phrases are listed
under Notes and Questions.

(4) A complete program of study, "How to Gain the Full Benefit from Your Reading" (pages 28,
29), gives a concise explanation of the various helps found in the book.

(5) The helps to study are more than mere notes; they aid in making significant the larger
purposes of the literature. These "Notes and Questions" include:

  (a) Biographies of the authors, that supply data for interpreting the
  stories and poems; particularly helpful are those of Part III;

  (b) Historical settings, wherever they are necessary to the
  intelligent understanding of the selection (see pages 94, 105, etc.);

  (c) Questions and suggestions that present clearly the main idea,
  stimulate original discussion and comparison, and bring out modern
  parallels to the situations found in the selections;

  (d) Words of everyday use frequently mispronounced, listed, for study
  under "Discussion" (see page 29, etc.);

  (e) Phrases that offer idiomatic difficulty; for convenience in
  locating these phrases the page and line numbers are indicated;

  (f) Projects, individual and social.

CONTENTS

PREFACE SUGGESTIONS FOR AN ORDER OF READING THE CRYSTAL GLASS

PART I

NATURE--HUMOR--HOME AND COUNTRY

THE WORLD OF NATURE

A Forward Look

ANIMALS

Turk, The Faithful Dog          Samuel White Baker Our Uninvited Guest             Ernest Harold
Baynes Hunting The American Buffalo    Theodore Roosevelt

BIRDS AND THEIR SONGS

The Birds And I         Liberty H. Bailey The Brown Thrush        Lucy Larcom Sing On, Blithe
Bird    William Motherwell

FLOWERS

The Violet And The Bee    John B. Tabb Four-Leaf Clovers         Ella Higginson Jack In The
Pulpit        Clara Smith

TIMES AND SEASONS

September                         Helen Hunt Jackson October's Bright Blue Weather     Helen
Hunt Jackson November                          Alice Cary Today                           
Thomas Carlyle The Night Has A Thousand Eyes     Francis Bourdillon

A Backward Look

STORIES IN LIGHTER VEIN

A Forward Look

Adventures of Munchausen           R. E. Raspe The Blind Men and the Elephant     John G. Saxe
Darius Green                       John T. Trowbridge Birthday Greetings                 Lewis
Carroll The Wind and The Moon              George Macdonald

A Backward Look

HOME AND COUNTRY

A Forward Look

HOME AND ITS FESTIVALS

Home, Sweet Home               John Howard Payne The Grapevine Swing            Samuel Minturn
Peck Lullaby of an Infant Chief     Sir Walter Scott The First Thanksgiving Day     Margaret
Junkin Preston A Visit from St. Nicholas      Clement C. Moore

OUR COUNTRY AND ITS FLAG

The Land of Liberty        (Author Unknown) The Flag of Our Country     Charles Sumner The
Name of Old Glory       James Whitcomb Riley The Star-Spangled Banner    Francis Scott Key
The Boyhood of Lincoln      Elbridge S. Brooks Washington with Braddock    Elbridge S. Brooks

SERVICE

Somebody's Mother            (Author Unknown) The Leak in the Dike          Phoebe Cary Casablanca
Felicia Hemans Tubal Cain                    Charles Mackay The Inchcape Rock             Robert
Southey My Boyhood on the Prairie     Hamlin Garland Woodman, Spare That Tree      George P.
Morris The American Boy              Theodore Roosevelt

A Backward Look

PART II

STORIES OF ADVENTURE

A Forward Look

STORIES FROM THE ARABIAN NIGHTS

Aladdin, or The Wonderful Lamp Ali Baba and the Open Sesame Sindbad The Sailor

Robin Hood             Joseph Walker McSpadden Gulliver's Travels     Jonathan Swift Robinson
Crusoe        Daniel Defoe

A Backward Look

PART III

GREAT AMERICAN AUTHORS

A Forward Look

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Biography The Whistle An Ax to Grind

WILLIAM GULLEN BRYANT

Biography The Yellow Violet The Gladness of Nature

JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER

Biography The Huskers The Corn-Song

WASHINGTON IRVING

Biography Capturing the Wild Horse The Adventure of the Mason

HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW

Biography The Arrow and the Song The Children's Hour The Song of Hiawatha

NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

Biography The Paradise of Children The Golden Touch

A Backward Look

SUGGESTIONS FOR AN ORDER OF READING

In The Elson Readers selections are grouped according to theme or authorship. Such an arrangement
enables the pupil to see the dominant ideas of the book as a whole. This purpose is further
aided by A Forward Look, or introduction, and A Backward Look, or review, for each main group.
The book, therefore, emphasizes certain fundamental ideals, making them stand out clearly in
the mind of the pupil. This result can best be accomplished by reading all the selections of
a group in the order given, before taking up those of a different group. The order of the groups,
however, may be varied to suit school conditions or preferences.

It goes without saying that selections particularly suited to the celebration of special days
will be read in connection with such festival occasions. For example, "The First Thanksgiving
Day," page 92, will be read immediately before the Thanksgiving holiday, even if the class
at that particular time is in the midst of some other main part of the Reader. Before assigning
a selection out of order, however, the teacher should scrutinize the notes and questions, to
make certain that no references are made within these notes to a discussion in A Forward Look
or to other selections in the group that pupils have not yet read. In case such references
are found the teacher may well conduct a brief class discussion to make these questions significant
to the pupils.

It is the belief of the authors that the longer selections, such as those found in Part II,
should be read silently and reported on in class. In this way the monotony incident to the
reading of such selections aloud in class will be avoided. However, the class will wish to
read aloud certain passages from these longer units because of their beauty, their dramatic
quality, or the forceful way in which the author has expressed his thoughts. Class readings
are frequently suggested for this purpose. In this way reading aloud is given purposefulness.

THE CRYSTAL GLASS

Once upon a time, as the fairy tale has it, there was a mighty magician named Merlin. He was
the teacher of the young Prince Arthur, who was one day to become the British King. Merlin
was old and wise, and he had the power of prophecy. One of his most wonderful possessions was
a magic glass, a globe of crystal, into which one might gaze and see distant places as if they
were near at hand, and see the events of past and future as if they were happening right before
his eyes.

No one knows now the whereabouts of this wonder-working crystal, or what was its appearance.
Very likely it seemed ordinary enough, though a glass of curious shape. Only those who knew
how to use it could learn its secrets; for all others it had no power. But the magic that once
lay in it has been given to certain books, which, like Merlin's globe, are filled with mysterious
power. Such a book you now hold in your hands. If you do not understand how to use it, it will
tell you nothing. But if you have this understanding, you have only to look within these pages,
and past and present and future will be unfolded to your gaze.

Here is what you will find if you use this book as a Merlin's glass wherein to see the wonders
which lie concealed within it.

First of all, you will see the world of animals and birds and flowers and times and seasons--the
world of Nature. There is a story about a little girl who wanted to see the King to ask of
him a favor. But no one could see him unless he was accompanied by some friends, for the King
would not trust anyone unless he had proved himself friendly so that people loved to be with
him. Now this little girl was very poor, and she had no friends. She wandered alone in the
forest, and cried because she had no friends. Just at this time she came into the knowledge
of a wonderful secret by which she could understand the language of the birds and of all the
shy animals of the forest, and as soon as she could understand them and talk with them, they
loved her, and the forest was no longer a lonely place but was filled with friends. Some of
these friends went with her to the King's palace, and she now had no difficulty. She knew the
language of those who lived in the forest, and she was no longer poor and lonely. So in the
pages of this book you will learn of the lives of faithful dogs and huge buffaloes, and the
brown thrush will sing for you a song full of meaning. The modest violet, the jack-in-the-pulpit,
even the four-leaf clovers will tell you stories about the forest and the field, so that wherever
you walk you will be surrounded by your friends. The magic glass of Merlin will unseal for
you this world of Nature.

Merlin's globe also enables you to look into the past and live in it as if it were the present.
You will take part in the first Thanksgiving Day. You will learn why the flag of our country
is called Old Glory. You will look in upon the boy Lincoln, tired after his hard day's work
on the farm, reading by the open fire in his father's cabin. You will see the young Washington
bravely helping General Braddock to save his soldiers. So the magic glass of reading will make
the early history of our country real to you, and the past will no longer be the past but a
part of your present life.

If you wish to live for a time in the fairy realm, where there are buried treasure chests or
magic lamps and rings, or if you would like to make a journey to far-off lands where are many
wonders, you have only to look in this magic glass, and in a twinkling you are whisked away.
You find yourself in a strange country where men and women wear curious, flowing garments of
many colors, where trees and animals are unfamiliar, and where queer buildings with many towers
attract your delighted eyes. The narrow streets are filled with strange life. You see a boy
with eyes that seem to be looking on strange things. He is talking with an evil-looking man
who bends over him, pointing down the street and out into the open country at the other end
of the town. And presently the boy goes with the stranger, and you follow, for it is Aladdin
and the magician, and you wish to know the adventure that is to come.

After this, Ali Baba and the cave of buried treasure and the forty thieves and Morgiana, the
shrewd slave-girl, and the jars of oil will all appear in the magic glass, and another series
of marvelous adventures will be disclosed to you. And then again, you come to a rich man's
home, and before it, gazing enviously at it, is a poor tramp. Go up the steps with him and
look upon the feast within the house. There is a queer table filled with food of strange form.
And there is the rich man, Sindbad the Sailor, and you may listen if you will to his stories
of travel to marvelous lands. Thus you travel to the mysterious East, without effort. You take
part in wonderful adventures, without danger. Your magic glass is the window through which
a world of fairy magic gleams vividly.

At another time you look, and the glass shows an English scene. It is the greenwood, somewhat
out from London. Never were trees so green, or flowers so fresh and gay, or birds so filled
with joy.

Presently you hear the sound of a horn deep in the forest, to be followed soon by the coming
of a merry crowd. Here is the prince of outlaws, clad in Lincoln green and followed by a score
of lusty fellows, and at once there are songs, wrestling matches, and merry jests, till your
heart is filled with joy. Little John, and the Sheriff of Nottingham, and Friar Tuck, and Robin
Hood, and last of all, the King himself--these are the actors in the play that you see through
your magic glass. And so it goes through all these stories of adventure--they become a part
of your experience, and you live more lives than one. Last of all, your magic glass, which
is this book, and which is always ready to do you service when you call upon it, will introduce
you to a group of great Americans who long ago learned these secrets and wrote down what they
themselves had seen. A patriot who helped to make our America will tell you several stories
of his childhood. A Nature-loving poet will tell you about flowers and birds. Another poet
will furnish stories about merry times on the farm. A third will tell you legends of the Indians.
Once more the world of Nature, the world of adventure, and the world of history and legend
will open before you, but this time you will learn something also of the men who have lived
in our America and have written about it in such way as to show us that, after all, we need
no marvelous Eastern country or desert islands--there is adventure enough and to spare all
about us, if we have eyes to see.

And here is the greatest charm of all. It is good to know about this magic glass of reading,
so that we shall never want for the joy it can bring. But while we use it, we shall find our
sight made pure and strong, so that when we no longer have the crystal globe, we can walk in
field and wood, and along our streets, and see, wondering, the beauty of the world in which
we live.

PART I

NATURE--HUMOR--HOME AND COUNTRY

Better--a thousand times better--than all the material wealth the world can give is the love
for the best books.

THE WORLD OF NATURE

A FORWARD LOOK

If we have eyes to see, the world of Nature is a fairyland. Further on in this book you will
read how Aladdin--a boy who was led by a magician to a cave in which were all kinds of wonderful
objects--came upon a garden underground wherein grew trees filled with extraordinary fruit.

Now with this compare a story about a great American author, Ralph Waldo Emerson. Emerson loved
all the forms of Nature. He wrote of the bee, of the wild flowers, of the storm, of the snowbird,
and of running waters. And in talking of the magic of a river he reminds us of Aladdin's fairy
fruits:

    "I see thy brimming, eddying stream
    And thy enchantment,
    For thou changest every rock in thy bed
    Into a gem.
    All is opal and agate,
    And at will thou pavest with diamonds."

Now we may suppose that Aladdin often waded through the brook and noticed the shining pebbles
and heard the tinkling music of the water as it rippled over stones in the stream. He noticed
the pebbles, but did not look at them. He heard the murmur of the waters, but he did not listen.
But when the magician uttered his magic words, and the earth opened, and Aladdin saw a little
ladder leading down into a deep cave, and in that cave found curious trees bearing curious
fruits, he was so surprised that he looked more closely, and all that he saw was full of wonder.
Now the poet is like the magician. His words open the door of enchantment for us if we care
to enter.

For the poets have been lovers of Nature, and they help us to see the beauty that lies about
us. One of them calls the stars "the forget-me-nots of the angels." Another writes of the song
of the brook as it goes dancing and singing down into the river, until we hear the music of
the waters in the melody of the poet's verse. Through such stories and poems of animals and
birds and flowers and of the seasons of the year as you will find in the following pages, your
magic glass of reading will open up the fairyland of Nature.

For magic wonders are not limited to the fairylands that we read about in the Arabian Nights
or in the tales of Cinderella or of the Sleeping Beauty. There is the enchantment which put
the princess and all her household to sleep for a hundred years until the prince came to release
them. There is also the enchantment of the frost, that stills all the life of brook and lake
and river, and holds the outdoor world in deep sleep until the breath of spring comes and releases
the prisoners. There is the enchantment which Aladdin controlled by his lamp and his ring,
so that at his bidding giant figures appeared to do his will; there is also the enchantment
of the snow, of the fire, of the lightning, of the storm; or there is the equally marvelous
enchantment by which the rose unfolds from the bud, the apple grows from the blossom, and the
robin from the tiny blue egg. Only we must see and listen when the magicians lead us to the
fairy world of Nature. Aladdin had passed the entrance to the magic cave a hundred times and
had seen nothing. So men pass the fields and see nothing but the corn and the wheat and the
cotton, and in the autumn they see the harvesters gathering the crops of the fields. But the
poet looks on these same fields and gathers another crop from them, and this he puts into a
song, and this song opens for us the world of Nature.

ANIMALS

TURK, THE FAITHFUL

Samuel White Baker

TURK'S FAILURE

When I was a boy, my grandfather frequently told a story concerning a dog which he knew, as
an example of true fidelity. This animal was a mastiff that belonged to a friend, Mr. Prideaux,
to whom it was a constant companion. Whenever Mr. Prideaux went out for a walk, Turk was sure
to be near his heels. Street dogs would bark and snarl at the giant as his massive form attracted
their attention, but Turk seldom noticed them. At night he slept outside his master's door,
and no sentry could be more alert upon his watch than the faithful dog.

One day Mr. Prideaux had a dinner party. The dog Turk was present, and stretched his huge form
upon the hearthrug. It was a cold night in winter, and Mr. Prideaux's friends after dinner
began to discuss the subject of dogs. Almost every person had an anecdote to relate, and my
own grandfather, being present, had no doubt added his mite to the collection, when Turk suddenly
awoke from a sound sleep, and having stretched himself, walked up to his master's side and
rested his large head upon the table. "Ha, ha, Turk!" exclaimed Mr. Prideaux, "you must have
heard our arguments about the dogs, so you have put in an appearance."

"And a magnificent animal he is!" remarked my grandfather; "but although a mastiff is the largest
of dogs, I do not think it is as sensible as many others."

"As a rule you are right," replied his master, "because they are generally chained up as watch-dogs,
and have not the intimate association with human beings which is so great an advantage to house-dogs;
but Turk has been my constant companion from the first month of his life, and his intelligence
is very remarkable. He understands most things that I say, if they are connected with himself;
he will often lie upon the rug with his large eyes fixed upon me, and he will frequently become
aware that I wish to go out; at such times he will fetch my hat, cane, or gloves, whichever
may be at hand, and wait for me at the front door. He will take a letter to several houses
of my acquaintance, and wait for a reply; and he can perform a variety of actions that would
imply a share of reason seldom possessed by other dogs."

A smile upon several faces was at once noticed by Mr. Prideaux, who immediately took a guinea
from his pocket, and said to his dog, "Here, Turk! They won't believe in you! Take this guinea
to No.--Street, to Mr.--, and bring me a receipt."

The dog wagged his huge tail with pleasure, and the guinea having been placed in his mouth,
he hastened toward the door; this being opened, he was admitted through the front entrance
to the street. It was a miserable night.

The wind was blowing the sleet and rain against the windows, and the gutters were running with
muddy water; nevertheless, Turk had started upon his mission in the howling gale, while the
front door was once more closed against the blast.

