The other dolls were received with raptures, Josephine stroking the golden curls of the Lady
Matilda with wondering fingers, and the baby dancing round and round, waving the pink-robed
Lady Clarabel above her head.

"Mr. Harvey McGinnis!" came the gruff tones of Santa Claus; and Harvey smiled over to his mother
as he drew out a pair of stout cloth gloves.

"Mrs. McGinnis!" And that good lady smiled back, as she shook out a dainty white apron with
a coarse embroidery ruffle.

"I reckon Santy wanted you to wear that of a Sunday afternoon," said Harvey, awkwardly.

"And I'll be proud to do it!" said his mother.

Little sacks of candy were next produced and everyone settled down to enjoy it, thinking that
the bottom of the big sack must be reached, when Santa called out in tones that trembled beneath
the gruffness, "Another package for Mr. Harvey McGinnis!"

"Fer me--why--what--" said Harvey, taking the heavy oblong bundle; then, as the sparkling "Club
House" skates met his view, his face lit up with a glory that Tom never forgot. The glory lasted
but a moment, then he turned a troubled face toward the bulky old saint.

"You never ought to a done it," he said. "These must have cost a lot!"

"Aw, go on," was the reply in a distinctly boyish tone, "don't you know that Santy can do whatever
he wants to?" and, with a prodigious bow, old Santa was gone.

A few minutes later, a slender boy with a bundle under his arm, was skating swiftly down the
shining river in the moonlight. As he rounded the bend, a tall figure in a fur-trimmed coat
came skimming slowly toward him, and a voice called out in Ralph Evans' condescending tones,
"Well, how are the 'Jolly Ramblers' doing tonight?"

But the answer, this time, was clear and glad and triumphant. "The best in the world," said
Tom, "and isn't this the glorious night for skating?"

THE WORKER IN SANDALWOOD[*]

By Marjorie L. C. Pickthall

The good curé of Terminaison says that this tale of Hyacinthe's is all a dream. But then Madame
points triumphantly to the little cabinet of sandalwood in the corner of her room. It had stood
there for many years now, and the dust has gathered in the fine lines of the little birds'
feathers, and softened the petals of the lilies carved at the corners. And the wood has taken
on a golden gleam like the memory of a sunset.

"What of that, my friend?" says Madame, pointing to the cabinet. And the old curé bows his head.

"It may be so. God is very good," he says gently. But he is never quite sure what he may believe.

On that winter day long ago, Hyacinthe was quite sure of one thing and that was that the workshop
was very cold. There was no fire in it, and only one little lamp when the early dark drew on.
The tools were so cold they scorched his fingers, and feet were so cold he danced clumsily
in the shavings to warm them. He was a great clumsy boy of fourteen, dark-faced, dull-eyed,
and uncared for. He was clumsy because it is impossible to be graceful when you are growing
very fast and have not enough to eat. He was dull-eyed because all eyes met his unlovingly.
He was uncared for because no one knew the beauty of his soul. But his heavy young hands could
carve things like birds and flowers perfectly. On this winter evening he was just wondering
if he might lay aside the tools, and creep home to the cold loft where he slept, when he heard
Pierre L'Oreillard's voice shouting outside.

"Be quick, be quick, and open the door, thou imbecile. It is I, thy master."

"Oui, mon maitre," said Hyacinthe, and he shambled to the door and opened it.

"Slow worm!" cried Pierre, and he cuffed Hyacinthe as he passed in. Hyacinthe rubbed his head
and said nothing. He was used to blows. He wondered why his master was in the workshop at that
time of day instead of drinking brandy at the Cinq Chateaux.

Pierre L'Oreillard had a small heavy bundle under his arm, wrapped in sacking, and then in
burlap, and then in fine soft cloths. He laid it on a pile of shavings, and unfolded it carefully;
and a dim sweetness filled the dark shed and hung heavily in the thin winter sunbeams.

"It is a piece of wood," said Hyacinthe in slow surprise. He knew that such wood had never
been seen in Terminaison.

Pierre L'Oreillard rubbed the wood respectfully with his knobby fingers.

"It is sandalwood," he explained to Hyacinthe, pride of knowledge making him quite amiable,
"a most precious wood that grows in warm countries, thou great goblin. Smell it, idiot. It
is sweeter than cedar. It is to make a cabinet for the old Madame at the big house."

"Oui, mon maitre," said the dull Hyacinthe.

"Thy great hands shall shape and smooth the wood, nigaud, and I will render it beautiful,"
said Pierre, puffing out his chest.

"Yes, Master," answered Hyacinthe humbly, "and when is it to be ready for Madame?"

"Madame will want it perhaps next week, for that is Christmas. It is to be finished and ready
on the holy festival, great sluggard. Hearest thou?" and he cuffed Hyacinthe's ears again furiously.

Hyacinthe knew that the making of the cabinet would fall to him, as most of the other work
did. When Pierre L'Oreillard was gone he touched the strange sweet wood and at last laid his
cheek against it, while the fragrance caught his breath. "How it is beautiful!" said Hyacinthe,
and for a moment his eyes glowed, and he was happy. Then the light passed and with bent head
he shuffled back to his bench through a foam of white shavings curling almost to his knees.

"Madame will want the cabinet for Christmas," repeated Hyacinthe to himself, and fell to work
harder than ever, though it was so cold in the shed that his breath hung in the air like a
little silvery cloud. There was a tiny window on his right, through which, when it was clear
of frost, one looked on Terminaison; and that was cheerful, and made him whistle. But to the
left, through the chink of the ill-fitting door, there was nothing to be seen but the forest,
and the road dying under the snow.

Brandy was good at the Cinq Chateaux and Pierre L'Oreillard gave Hyacinthe plenty of directions,
but no further help with the cabinet.

"That is to be finished for Madame at the festival, sluggard," said he every day, cuffing Hyacinthe
about the head, "finished, and with a prettiness about the corners, hearest thou, ourson?"

"Yes, Monsieur," said Hyacinthe in his slow way; "I will try to finish it. But if I hurry I
shall spoil it."

Pierre's little eyes flickered. "See that it is done, and done properly. I suffer from a delicacy
of the constitution and a little feebleness of the legs these days, so that I cannot handle
the tools properly. I must leave this work to thee, gacheur. And stand up and touch a hand
to thy cap when I speak to thee, slow-worm."

"Yes, monsieur," said Hyacinthe wearily.

It is hard to do all the work and to be beaten into the bargain. And fourteen is not very old.
Hyacinthe worked on at the cabinet with his slow and exquisite skill. But on Christmas eve
he was still at work, and the cabinet unfinished.

"The master will beat me," thought Hyacinthe, and he trembled a little, for Pierre's beatings
were cruel. "But if I hurry, I shall spoil the wood, and it is too beautiful to be spoiled."

But he trembled again when Pierre came into the workshop, and he stood up and touched his cap.

"Is the cabinet finished, imbecile?" asked Pierre. And Hyacinthe answered in a low voice, "No,
it is not finished yet, monsieur."

"Then work on it all night, and show it to me completed in the morning, or thy bones shall
mourn thine idleness," said Pierre, with a wicked look in his little eyes. And he shut Hyacinthe
into the shed with a smoky lamp, his tools, and the sandalwood cabinet.

It was nothing unusual. He had been often left before to finish a piece of work overnight while
Pierre went off to his brandies. But this was Christmas eve, and he was very tired. Even the
scent of the sandalwood could not make him fancy he was warm. The world seemed to be a black
place, full of suffering and despair.

"In all the world, I have no friend," said Hyacinthe, staring at the flame of the lamp. "In
all the world, there is no one to care whether I live or die. In all the world, no place, no
heart, no love. O kind God, is there a place, a love for me in another world?"

I hope you feel very sorry for Hyacinthe, lonely, and cold, and shut up in the workshop on
the eve of Christmas. He was but an overgrown, unhappy child. And I think with old Madame that
for unhappy children, at this season, no help seems too divine for faith.

"There is no one to care for me," said Hyacinthe. And he even looked at the chisel in his hand,
thinking that by a touch of that he might lose it all, and be at peace, somewhere, not far
from God. Only it was forbidden. Then came the tears, and great sobs that shook him, so that
he scarcely heard the gentle rattling of the latch.

He stumbled to the door, opening it on the still woods and the frosty stars. And a lad who
stood outside in the snow said, "I see you are working late, comrade. May I come in?"

Hyacinthe brushed his ragged sleeve across his eyes and nodded "Yes." Those little villages
strung along the great river see strange wayfarers at times. And Hyacinthe said to himself
that surely here was such a one. Blinking into the stranger's eyes, he lost for a flash the
first impression of youth, and received one of incredible age or sadness. But the wanderer's
eyes were only quiet, very quiet, like the little pools in the wood where the wild does went
to drink. As he turned within the door, smiling at Hyacinthe and shaking some snow from his
cap, he did not seem to be more than sixteen or so.

"It is very cold outside," he said. "There is a big oak tree on the edge of the fields that
had split in the frost and frightened all the little squirrels asleep there. Next year it will
make an even better home for them. And see what I found close by!" He opened his fingers and
showed Hyacinthe a little sparrow lying unruffled in the palm.

"Pauvrette!" said the dull Hyacinthe. "Pauvrette! Is it then dead?" He touched it with a gentle
forefinger.

"No," answered the strange boy, "it is not dead. We will put it here among the shavings, not
far from the lamp, and it will be well by the morning."

He smiled at Hyacinthe again, and the shambling lad felt dimly as if the scent of the sandalwood
were sweeter, and the lamp-flame clearer. But the stranger's eyes were only quiet, quiet.

"Have you come far?" asked Hyacinthe. "It is a bad season for traveling, and the wolves are out."

"A long way," said the other. "A long, long way. I heard a child cry--"

"There is no child here," put in Hyacinthe. "Monsieur L'Oreillard says children cost too much
money. But if you have come far, you must need food and fire, and I have neither. At the Cinq
Chateaux you will find both."

The stranger looked at him again with those quiet eyes, and Hyacinthe fancied that his face
was familiar. "I will stay here," he said; "you are late at work, and you are unhappy."

"Why as to that," answered Hyacinthe, rubbing his cheeks and ashamed of his tears, "most of
are sad at one time or another, the good God knows. Stay here and welcome if it pleases you;
and you may take a share of my bed, though it is no more than a pile of balsam boughs and an
old blanket in the loft. But I must work at this cabinet, for the drawers must be finished
and the handles put on and the corners carved, all by the holy morning; or my wages will be
paid with a stick."

"You have a hard master," put in the other, "if he would pay you with blows upon the feast
of Noel."

