XXV.  On his return from Greece, arriving at Naples, because he had commenced his career as
a public performer in that city, he made his entrance in a chariot drawn by white horses through
a breach in the city-wall, according to the practice of those who were victorious in the sacred
Grecian games.  In the same manner he entered Antium, Alba, and Rome.  He made his entry into
the city riding in the same chariot in which Augustus had triumphed, in a purple tunic, and
a cloak embroidered with golden stars, having on his head the crown won at Olympia, and in
his right hand that which was given him at the Parthian games: the rest being carried in a
procession before him, with inscriptions denoting the places where they had been won, from
whom, and in what plays or musical performances; whilst a train followed him with loud acclamations,
crying out, that "they (355) were the emperor's attendants, and the soldiers of his triumph."
Having then caused an arch of the Circus Maximus [588] to be taken down, he passed through
the breach, as also through the Velabrum [589] and the forum, to the Palatine hill and the
temple of Apollo. Everywhere as he marched along, victims were slain, whilst the streets were
strewed with saffron, and birds, chaplets, and sweetmeats scattered abroad.  He suspended the
sacred crowns in his chamber, about his beds, and caused statues of himself to be erected in
the attire of a harper, and had his likeness stamped upon the coin in the same dress.  After
this period, he was so far from abating any thing of his application to music, that, for the
preservation of his voice, he never addressed the soldiers but by messages, or with some person
to deliver his speeches for him, when he thought fit to make his appearance amongst them. 
Nor did he ever do any thing either in jest or earnest, without a voice-master standing by
him to caution him against overstraining his vocal organs, and to apply a handkerchief to his
mouth when he did.  He offered his friendship, or avowed (356) open enmity to many, according
as they were lavish or sparing in giving him their applause.

XXVI.  Petulancy, lewdness, luxury, avarice, and cruelty, he practised at first with reserve
and in private, as if prompted to them only by the folly of youth; but, even then, the world
was of opinion that they were the faults of his nature, and not of his age.  After it was dark,
he used to enter the taverns disguised in a cap or a wig, and ramble about the streets in sport,
which was not void of mischief.  He used to beat those he met coming home from supper; and,
if they made any resistance, would wound them, and throw them into the common sewer.  He broke
open and robbed shops; establishing an auction at home for selling his booty.  In the scuffles
which took place on those occasions, he often ran the hazard of losing his eyes, and even his
life; being beaten almost to death by a senator, for handling his wife indecently.  After this
adventure, he never again ventured abroad at that time of night, without some tribunes following
him at a little distance.  In the day-time he would be carried to the theatre incognito in
a litter, placing himself upon the upper part of the proscenium, where he not only witnessed
the quarrels which arose on account of the performances, but also encouraged them.  When they
came to blows, and stones and pieces of broken benches began to fly about, he threw them plentifully
amongst the people, and once even broke a praetor's head.

XXVII.  His vices gaining strength by degrees, he laid aside his jocular amusements, and all
disguise; breaking out into enormous crimes, without the least attempt to conceal them.  His
revels were prolonged from mid-day to midnight, while he was frequently refreshed by warm baths,
and, in the summer time, by such as were cooled with snow.  He often supped in public, in the
Naumachia, with the sluices shut, or in the Campus Martius, or the Circus Maximus, being waited
upon at table by common prostitutes of the town, and Syrian strumpets and glee-girls.  As often
as he went down the Tiber to Ostia, or coasted through the gulf of Baiae, booths furnished
as brothels and eating-houses, were erected along the shore and river banks; before which stood
matrons, who, like bawds and hostesses, allured him to land.  It was also his custom to invite
(357) himself to supper with his friends; at one of which was expended no less than four millions
of sesterces in chaplets, and at another something more in roses.

XXVIII.  Besides the abuse of free-born lads, and the debauch of married women, he committed
a rape upon Rubria, a Vestal Virgin.  He was upon the point of marrying Acte [590], his freedwoman,
having suborned some men of consular rank to swear that she was of royal descent.  He gelded
the boy Sporus, and endeavoured to transform him into a woman.  He even went so far as to marry
him, with all the usual formalities of a marriage settlement, the rose-coloured nuptial veil,
and a numerous company at the wedding.  When the ceremony was over, he had him conducted like
a bride to his own house, and treated him as his wife [591].  It was jocularly observed by
some person, "that it would have been well for mankind, had such a wife fallen to the lot of
his father Domitius."  This Sporus he carried about with him in a litter round the solemn assemblies
and fairs of Greece, and afterwards at Rome through the Sigillaria [592], dressed in the rich
attire of an empress; kissing him from time to time as they rode together.  That he entertained
an incestuous passion for his mother [593], but was deterred by her enemies, for fear that
this haughty and overbearing woman should, by her compliance, get him entirely into her power,
and govern in every thing, was universally believed; especially after he had introduced amongst
his concubines a strumpet, who was reported to have a strong resemblance to Agrippina [594].--------

XXIX.  He prostituted his own chastity to such a degree, that (358) after he had defiled every
part of his person with some unnatural pollution, he at last invented an extraordinary kind
of diversion; which was, to be let out of a den in the arena, covered with the skin of a wild
beast, and then assail with violence the private parts both of men and women, while they were
bound to stakes.  After he had vented his furious passion upon them, he finished the play in
the embraces of his freedman Doryphorus [595], to whom he was married in the same way that
Sporus had been married to himself; imitating the cries and shrieks of young virgins, when
they are ravished.  I have been informed from numerous sources, that he firmly believed, no
man in the world to be chaste, or any part of his person undefiled; but that most men concealed
that vice, and were cunning enough to keep it secret.  To those, therefore, who frankly owned
their unnatural lewdness, he forgave all other crimes.

XXX.  He thought there was no other use of riches and money than to squander them away profusely;
regarding all those as sordid wretches who kept their expenses within due bounds; and extolling
those as truly noble and generous souls, who lavished away and wasted all they possessed. 
He praised and admired his uncle Caius [596], upon no account more, than for squandering in
a short time the vast treasure left him by Tiberius. Accordingly, he was himself extravagant
and profuse, beyond all bounds. He spent upon Tiridates eight hundred thousand sesterces a
day, a sum almost incredible; and at his departure, presented him with upwards of a million
[597].  He likewise bestowed upon Menecrates the harper, and Spicillus a gladiator, the estates
and houses of men who had received the honour of a triumph.  He enriched the usurer Cercopithecus
Panerotes with estates both in town and country; and gave him a funeral, in pomp and magnificence
little inferior to that of princes.  He never wore the same garment twice.  He (359) has been
known to stake four hundred thousand sesterces on a throw of the dice.  It was his custom to
fish with a golden net, drawn by silken cords of purple and scarlet.  It is said, that he never
travelled with less than a thousand baggage-carts; the mules being all shod with silver, and
the drivers dressed in scarlet jackets of the finest Canusian cloth [598], with a numerous
train of footmen, and troops of Mazacans [599], with bracelets on their arms, and mounted upon
horses in splendid trappings.

XXXI.  In nothing was he more prodigal than in his buildings.  He completed his palace by continuing
it from the Palatine to the Esquiline hill, calling the building at first only "The Passage,"
but, after it was burnt down and rebuilt, "The Golden House."  The chief banqueting room was
circular, and revolved perpetually, night and day, in imitation of the motion of the celestial
bodies.  The baths were supplied with water from the sea and the Albula.  Upon the dedication
of this magnificent house after it was finished, all he said in approval of it was, "that he
had now a dwelling fit for a man."  He commenced making a pond for the reception of all the
hot streams from Baiae, which he designed to have continued from Misenum to the Avernian lake,
in a conduit, enclosed in galleries; and also a canal from Avernum to Ostia, that ships might
pass from one to the other, without a sea voyage.  The length of the proposed canal was one
hundred and sixty miles; and it was intended to be of breadth sufficient to permit ships with
five banks of oars to pass each other.  For the execution of these designs, he ordered all
prisoners, in every part of the empire, to be brought to Italy; and that even those who were
convicted of the most heinous crimes, in lieu of any other sentence, should be condemned to
work at them.  He was encouraged to all this wild and enormous profusion, not only by the great
revenue of the empire, but by the sudden hopes given him of an immense hidden treasure, which
queen Dido, upon her flight from Tyre, had brought with her to Africa.  This, a Roman knight
pretended to assure him, upon good grounds, was still hid there in some deep caverns, and might
with a little labour be recovered.

XXXII.  But being disappointed in his expectations of this resource, and reduced to such difficulties,
for want of money, that he was obliged to defer paying his troops, and the rewards due to the
veterans; he resolved upon supplying his necessities by means of false accusations and plunder.
In the first place, he ordered, that if any freedman, without sufficient reason, bore the name
of the family to which he belonged; the half, instead of three fourths, of his estate should
be brought into the exchequer at his decease: also that the estates of all such persons as
had not in their wills been mindful of their prince, should be confiscated; and that the lawyers
who had drawn or dictated such wills, should be liable to a fine.  He ordained likewise, that
all words and actions, upon which any informer could ground a prosecution, should be deemed
treason.  He demanded an equivalent for the crowns which the cities of (361) Greece had at
any time offered him in the solemn games. Having forbad any one to use the colours of amethyst
and Tyrian purple, he privately sent a person to sell a few ounces of them upon the day of
the Nundinae, and then shut up all the merchants' shops, on the pretext that his edict had
been violated.  It is said, that, as he was playing and singing in the theatre, observing a
married lady dressed in the purple which he had prohibited, he pointed her out to his procurators;
upon which she was immediately dragged out of her seat, and not only stripped of her clothes,
but her property.  He never nominated a person to any office without saying to him, "You know
what I want; and let us take care that nobody has any thing he can call his own."  At last
he rifled many temples of the rich offerings with which they were stored, and melted down all
the gold and silver statues, and amongst them those of the penates [601], which Galba afterwards
restored.

XXXIII.  He began the practice of parricide and murder with Claudius himself; for although
he was not the contriver of his death, he was privy to the plot.  Nor did he make any secret
of it; but used afterwards to commend, in a Greek proverb, mushrooms as food fit for the gods,
because Claudius had been poisoned with them.  He traduced his memory both by word and deed
in the grossest manner; one while charging him with folly, another while with cruelty.  For
he used to say by way of jest, that he had ceased morari [602] amongst men, pronouncing the
first syllable long; and treated as null many of his decrees and ordinances, as made by a doting
old blockhead.  He enclosed the place where his body was burnt with only a low wall of rough
masonry.  He attempted to poison (362) Britannicus, as much out of envy because he had a sweeter
voice, as from apprehension of what might ensue from the respect which the people entertained
for his father's memory.  He employed for this purpose a woman named Locusta, who had been
a witness against some persons guilty of like practices.  But the poison she gave him, working
more slowly than he expected, and only causing a purge, he sent for the woman, and beat her
with his own hand, charging her with administering an antidote instead of poison; and upon
her alleging in excuse, that she had given Britannicus but a gentle mixture in order to prevent
suspicion, "Think you," said he, "that I am afraid of the Julian law;" and obliged her to prepare,
in his own chamber and before his eyes, as quick and strong a dose as possible.  This he tried
upon a kid: but the animal lingering for five hours before it expired, he ordered her to go
to work again; and when she had done, he gave the poison to a pig, which dying immediately,
he commanded the potion to be brought into the eating-room and given to Britannicus, while
he was at supper with him.  The prince had no sooner tasted it than he sunk on the floor, Nero
meanwhile, pretending to the guests, that it was only a fit of the falling sickness, to which,
he said, he was subject.  He buried him the following day, in a mean and hurried way, during
violent storms of rain.  He gave Locusta a pardon, and rewarded her with a great estate in
land, placing some disciples with her, to be instructed in her trade.

XXXIV.  His mother being used to make strict inquiry into what he said or did, and to reprimand
him with the freedom of a parent, he was so much offended, that he endeavoured to expose her
to public resentment, by frequently pretending a resolution to quit the government, and retire
to Rhodes.  Soon afterwards, he deprived her of all honour and power, took from her the guard
of Roman and German soldiers, banished her from the palace and from his society, and persecuted
her in every way he could contrive; employing persons to harass her when at Rome with law-suits,
and to disturb her in her retirement from town with the most scurrilous and abusive language,
following her about by land and sea.  But being terrified with her menaces and violent spirit,
he resolved upon her destruction, and thrice attempted it by poison.  Finding, however, (363)
that she had previously secured herself by antidotes, he contrived machinery, by which the
floor over her bed-chamber might be made to fall upon her while she was asleep in the night.
This design miscarrying likewise, through the little caution used by those who were in the
secret, his next stratagem was to construct a ship which could be easily shivered, in hopes
of destroying her either by drowning, or by the deck above her cabin crushing her in its fall.
Accordingly, under colour of a pretended reconciliation, he wrote her an extremely affectionate
letter, inviting her to Baiae, to celebrate with him the festival of Minerva.  He had given
private orders to the captains of the galleys which were to attend her, to shatter to pieces
the ship in which she had come, by falling foul of it, but in such manner that it might appear
to be done accidentally.  He prolonged the entertainment, for the more convenient opportunity
of executing the plot in the night; and at her return for Bauli [603], instead of the old ship
which had conveyed her to Baiae, he offered that which he had contrived for her destruction.
He attended her to the vessel in a very cheerful mood, and, at parting with her, kissed her
breasts; after which he sat up very late in the night, waiting with great anxiety to learn
the issue of his project.  But receiving information that every thing had fallen out contrary
to his wish, and that she had saved herself by swimming,--not knowing what course to take,
upon her freedman, Lucius Agerinus bringing word, with great joy, that she was safe and well,
he privately dropped a poniard by him.  He then commanded the freedman to be seized and put
in chains, under pretence of his having been employed by his mother to assassinate him; at
the same time ordering her to be put to death, and giving out, that, to avoid punishment for
her intended crime, she had laid violent hands upon herself.  Other circumstances, still more
horrible, are related on good authority; as that he went to view her corpse, and handling her
limbs, pointed out some blemishes, and commended other points; and that, growing thirsty during
the survey, he called for drink.  Yet he was never afterwards able to bear the stings of his
own conscience for this atrocious act, although encouraged by the congratulatory addresses
of the army, the senate, and people.  He frequently affirmed that he was haunted by his mother's
ghost, and persecuted with the whips (364) and burning torches of the Furies.  Nay, he attempted
by magical rites to bring up her ghost from below, and soften her rage against him.  When he
was in Greece, he durst not attend the celebration of the Eleusinian mysteries, at the initiation
of which, impious and wicked persons are warned by the voice of the herald from approaching
the rites [604].  Besides the murder of his mother, he had been guilty of that of his aunt;
for, being obliged to keep her bed in consequence of a complaint in her bowels, he paid her
a visit, and she, being then advanced in years, stroking his downy chin, in the tenderness
of affection, said to him: "May I but live to see the day when this is shaved for the first
time [605], and I shall then die contented."  He turned, however, to those about him, made
a jest of it, saying, that he would have his beard immediately taken off, and ordered the physicians
to give her more violent purgatives.  He seized upon her estate before she had expired; suppressing
her will, that he might enjoy the whole himself.

XXXV.  He had, besides Octavia, two other wives: Poppaea Sabina, whose father had borne the
office of quaestor, and who had been married before to a Roman knight: and, after her, Statilia
Messalina, great-grand-daughter of Taurus [606] who was twice consul, and received the honour
of a triumph.  To obtain possession of her, he put to death her husband, Atticus Vestinus,
who was then consul.  He soon became disgusted with Octavia, and ceased from having any intercourse
with her; and being censured by his friends for it, he replied, "She ought to be satisfied
with having the rank and appendages of his wife."  Soon afterwards, he made several attempts,
but in vain, to strangle her, and then divorced her for barrenness.  But the people, disapproving
of the divorce, and making severe comments upon it, he also banished her [607].  At last he
(365) put her to death, upon a charge of adultery, so impudent and false, that, when all those
who were put to the torture positively denied their knowledge of it, he suborned his pedagogue,
Anicetus, to affirm, that he had secretly intrigued with and debauched her.  He married Poppaea
twelve days after the divorce of Octavia [608], and entertained a great affection for her;
but, nevertheless, killed her with a kick which he gave her when she was big with child, and
in bad health, only because she found fault with him for returning late from driving his chariot.
He had by her a daughter, Claudia Augusta, who died an infant.  There was no person at all
connected with him who escaped his deadly and unjust cruelty.  Under pretence of her being
engaged in a plot against him, he put to death Antonia, Claudius's daughter, who refused to
marry him after the death of Poppaea.  In the same way, he destroyed all who were allied to
him either by blood or marriage; amongst whom was young Aulus Plautinus.  He first compelled
him to submit to his unnatural lust, and then ordered him to be executed, crying out, "Let
my mother bestow her kisses on my successor thus defiled;" pretending that he had been his
mothers paramour, and by her encouraged to aspire to the empire.  His step-son, Rufinus Crispinus,
Poppaea's son, though a minor, he ordered to be drowned in the sea, while he was fishing, by
his own slaves, because he was reported to act frequently amongst his play-fellows the part
of a general or an emperor. He banished Tuscus, his nurse's son, for presuming, when he was
procurator of Egypt, to wash in the baths which had been constructed in expectation of his
own coming.  Seneca, his preceptor, he forced to kill himself [609], though, upon his desiring
leave to retire, and offering to surrender his estate, he solemnly swore, "that there was no
foundation for his suspicions, and that he would perish himself sooner than hurt him." Having
promised Burrhus, the pretorian prefect, a remedy for a swelling in his throat, he sent him
poison.  Some old rich freedmen of Claudius, who had formerly not only promoted (366) his adoption,
but were also instrumental to his advancement to the empire, and had been his governors, he
took off by poison given them in their meat or drink.

XXXVI.  Nor did he proceed with less cruelty against those who were not of his family.  A blazing
star, which is vulgarly supposed to portend destruction to kings and princes, appeared above
the horizon several nights successively [610].  He felt great anxiety on account of this phenomenon,
and being informed by one Babilus, an astrologer, that princes were used to expiate such omens
by the sacrifice of illustrious persons, and so avert the danger foreboded to their own persons,
by bringing it on the heads of their chief men, he resolved on the destruction of the principal
nobility in Rome.  He was the more encouraged to this, because he had some plausible pretence
for carrying it into execution, from the discovery of two conspiracies against him; the former
and more dangerous of which was that formed by Piso [611], and discovered at Rome; the other
was that of Vinicius [612], at Beneventum. The conspirators were brought to their trials loaded
with triple fetters. Some ingenuously confessed the charge; others avowed that they thought
the design against his life an act of favour for which he was obliged to them, as it was impossible
in any other way than by death to relieve a person rendered infamous by crimes of the greatest
enormity.  The children of those who had been condemned, were banished the city, and afterwards
either poisoned or starved to death.  It is asserted that some of them, with their tutors,
and the slaves who carried their satchels, were all poisoned together at one dinner; and others
not suffered to seek their daily bread.

XXXVII.  From this period he butchered, without distinction or quarter, all whom his caprice
suggested as objects for his cruelty; and upon the most frivolous pretences.  To mention only
a few: Salvidienus Orfitus was accused of letting (367) out three taverns attached to his house
in the Forum to some cities for the use of their deputies at Rome.  The charge against Cassius
Longinus, a lawyer who had lost his sight, was, that he kept amongst the busts of his ancestors
that of Caius Cassius, who was concerned in the death of Julius Caesar.  The only charge objected
against Paetus Thrasea was, that he had a melancholy cast of features, and looked like a schoolmaster.
He allowed but one hour to those whom he obliged to kill themselves; and, to prevent delay,
he sent them physicians "to cure them immediately, if they lingered beyond that time;" for
so he called bleeding them to death.  There was at that time an Egyptian of a most voracious
appetite, who would digest raw flesh, or any thing else that was given him.  It was credibly
reported, that the emperor was extremely desirous of furnishing him with living men to tear
and devour.  Being elated with his great success in the perpetration of crimes, he declared,
"that no prince before himself ever knew the extent of his power."  He threw out strong intimations
that he would not even spare the senators who survived, but would entirely extirpate that order,
and put the provinces and armies into the hands of the Roman knights and his own freedmen.
It is certain that he never gave or vouchsafed to allow any one the customary kiss, either
on entering or departing, or even returned a salute.  And at the inauguration of a work, the
cut through the Isthmus [613], he, with a loud voice, amidst the assembled multitude, uttered
a prayer, that "the undertaking might prove fortunate for himself and the Roman people," without
taking the smallest notice of the senate.

XXXVIII.  He spared, moreover, neither the people of Rome, nor the capital of his country.
Somebody in conversation saying--

    Emou thanontos gaia michthaeto pyri
    When I am dead let fire devour the world--

"Nay," said he, "let it be while I am living" [emou xontos].  And he acted accordingly: for,
pretending to be disgusted with the old buildings, and the narrow and winding streets, he set
the city on fire so openly, that many of consular rank caught his own household servants on
their property with tow, and (368) torches in their hands, but durst not meddle with them.
There being near his Golden House some granaries, the site of which he exceedingly coveted,
they were battered as if with machines of war, and set on fire, the walls being built of stone.
During six days and seven nights this terrible devastation continued, the people being obliged
to fly to the tombs and monuments for lodging and shelter. Meanwhile, a vast number of stately
buildings, the houses of generals celebrated in former times, and even then still decorated
with the spoils of war, were laid in ashes; as well as the temples of the gods, which had been
vowed and dedicated by the kings of Rome, and afterwards in the Punic and Gallic wars: in short,
everything that was remarkable and worthy to be seen which time had spared [614].  This fire
he beheld from a tower in the house of Mecaenas, and "being greatly delighted," as he said,
"with the beautiful effects of the conflagration," he sung a poem on the ruin of Troy, in the
tragic dress he used on the stage.  To turn this calamity to his own advantage by plunder and
rapine, he promised to remove the bodies of those who had perished in the fire, and clear the
rubbish at his own expense; suffering no one to meddle with the remains of their property.
But he not only received, but exacted contributions on account of the loss, until he had exhausted
the means both of the provinces and private persons.

XXXIX.  To these terrible and shameful calamities brought upon the people by their prince,
were added some proceeding from misfortune.  Such were a pestilence, by which, within the space
of one autumn, there died no less than thirty thousand persons, as appeared from the registers
in the temple of Libitina; a great disaster in Britain [615], where two of the principal towns
belonging to the Romans were plundered; and a (369) dreadful havoc made both amongst our troops
and allies; a shameful discomfiture of the army of the East; where, in Armenia, the legions
were obliged to pass under the yoke, and it was with great difficulty that Syria was retained.
Amidst all these disasters, it was strange, and, indeed, particularly remarkable, that he bore
nothing more patiently than the scurrilous language and railing abuse which was in every one's
mouth; treating no class of persons with more gentleness, than those who assailed him with
invective and lampoons.  Many things of that kind were posted up about the city, or otherwise
published, both in Greek and Latin: such as these,

    Neron, Orestaes, Alkmaion, maetroktonai.
    Neonymphon [616] Neron, idian maeter apekteinen.

      Orestes and Alcaeon--Nero too,
      The lustful Nero, worst of all the crew,
      Fresh from his bridal--their own mothers slew.

    Quis neget Aeneae magna de stirpe Neronem?
      Sustulit hic matrem: sustulit [617] ille patrem.

      Sprung from Aeneas, pious, wise and great,
      Who says that Nero is degenerate?
      Safe through the flames, one bore his sire; the other,
      To save himself, took off his loving mother.

    Dum tendit citharam noster, dum cornua Parthus,
      Noster erit Paean, ille Ekataebeletaes.

      His lyre to harmony our Nero strings;
      His arrows o'er the plain the Parthian wings:
      Ours call the tuneful Paean,--famed in war,
      The other Phoebus name, the god who shoots afar. [618]

    Roma domus fiet: Vejos migrate, Quirites,
      Si non et Vejos occupat ista domus.

      All Rome will be one house: to Veii fly,
      Should it not stretch to Veii, by and by. [619]

(370) But he neither made any inquiry after the authors, nor when information was laid before
the senate against some of them, would he allow a severe sentence to be passed.  Isidorus,
the Cynic philosopher, said to him aloud, as he was passing along the streets, "You sing the
misfortunes of Nauplius well, but behave badly yourself."  And Datus, a comic actor, when repeating
these words in the piece, "Farewell, father! Farewell mother!" mimicked the gestures of persons
drinking and swimming, significantly alluding to the deaths of Claudius and Agrippina: and
on uttering the last clause,

    Orcus vobis ducit pedes;
    You stand this moment on the brink of Orcus;

he plainly intimated his application of it to the precarious position of the senate.  Yet Nero
only banished the player and philosopher from the city and Italy; either because he was insensible
to shame, or from apprehension that if he discovered his vexation, still keener things might
be said of him.

XL.  The world, after tolerating such an emperor for little less than fourteen years, at length
forsook him; the Gauls, headed by Julius Vindex, who at that time governed the province as
pro-praetor, being the first to revolt.  Nero had been formerly told by astrologers, that it
would be his fortune to be at last deserted by all the world; and this occasioned that celebrated
saying of his, "An artist can live in any country;" by which he meant to offer as an excuse
for his practice of music, that it was not only his amusement as a prince, but might be his
support when reduced to a private station.  Yet some of the astrologers promised him, in his
forlorn state, the rule of the East, and some in express words the kingdom of Jerusalem.  But
the greater part of them flattered him with assurances of his being restored to his former
fortune.  And being most inclined to believe the latter prediction, upon losing Britain and
Armenia, he imagined he had run through all the misfortunes which the fates had decreed him.
But when, upon consulting the oracle of Apollo at Delphi, he was advised to beware of the seventy-third
year, as if he were not to die till then, never thinking of Galba's age, he conceived such
hopes, not only of living to advanced years, but of constant and singular good fortune, that
having lost some things of great value by shipwreck, he scrupled not to say amongst his friends,
that (371) "the fishes would bring them back to him."  At Naples he heard of the insurrection
in Gaul, on the anniversary of the day on which he killed his mother, and bore it with so much
unconcern, as to excite a suspicion that he was really glad of it, since he had now a fair
opportunity of plundering those wealthy provinces by the right of war. Immediately going to
the gymnasium, he witnessed the exercise of the wrestlers with the greatest delight.  Being
interrupted at supper with letters which brought yet worse news, he expressed no greater resentment,
than only to threaten the rebels.  For eight days together, he never attempted to answer any
letters, nor give any orders, but buried the whole affair in profound silence.

XLI.  Being roused at last by numerous proclamations of Vindex, treating him with reproaches
and contempt, he in a letter to the senate exhorted them to avenge his wrongs and those of
the republic; desiring them to excuse his not appearing in the senate-house, because he had
got cold. But nothing so much galled him, as to find himself railed at as a pitiful harper,
and, instead of Nero, styled Aenobarbus: which being his family name, since he was upbraided
with it, he declared that he would resume it, and lay aside the name he had taken by adoption.
Passing by the other accusations as wholly groundless, he earnestly refuted that of his want
of skill in an art upon which he had bestowed so much pains, and in which he had arrived at
such perfection; asking frequently those about him, "if they knew any one who was a more accomplished
musician?"  But being alarmed by messengers after messengers of ill news from Gaul, he returned
in great consternation to Rome.  On the road, his mind was somewhat relieved, by observing
the frivolous omen of a Gaulish soldier defeated and dragged by the hair by a Roman knight,
which was sculptured on a monument; so that he leaped for joy, and adored the heavens.  Even
then he made no appeal either to the senate or people, but calling together some of the leading
men at his own house, he held a hasty consultation upon the present state of affairs, and then,
during the remainder of the day, carried them about with him to view some musical instruments,
of a new invention, which were played by water [620] (372) exhibiting all the parts, and discoursing
upon the principles and difficulties of the contrivance; which, he told them, he intended to
produce in the theatre, if Vindex would give him leave.

XLII.  Soon afterwards, he received intelligence that Galba and the Spaniards had declared
against him; upon which, he fainted, and losing his reason, lay a long time speechless, apparently
dead.  As soon as recovered from this state stupefaction he tore his clothes, and beat his
head, crying out, "It is all over with me!"  His nurse endeavouring to comfort him, and telling
him that the like things had happened to other princes before him, he replied, "I am beyond
all example wretched, for I have lost an empire whilst I am still living."  He, nevertheless,
abated nothing of his luxury and inattention to business.  Nay, on the arrival of good news
from the provinces, he, at a sumptuous entertainment, sung with an air of merriment, some jovial
verses upon the leaders of the revolt, which were made public; and accompanied them with suitable
gestures.  Being carried privately to the theatre, he sent word to an actor who was applauded
by the spectators, "that he had it all his own way, now that he himself did not appear on the
stage."

XLIII.  At the first breaking out of these troubles, it is believed that he had formed many
designs of a monstrous nature, although conformable enough to his natural disposition.  These
were to send new governors and commanders to the provinces and the armies, and employ assassins
to butcher all the former governors and commanders, as men unanimously engaged in a conspiracy
against him; to massacre the exiles in every quarter, and all the Gaulish population in Rome;
the former lest they should join the insurrection; the latter as privy to the designs of their
countrymen, and ready to support (373) them; to abandon Gaul itself, to be wasted and plundered
by his armies; to poison the whole senate at a feast; to fire the city, and then let loose
the wild beasts upon the people, in order to impede their stopping the progress of the flames.
But being deterred from the execution of these designs not so much by remorse of conscience,
as by despair of being able to effect them, and judging an expedition into Gaul necessary,
he removed the consuls from their office, before the time of its expiration was arrived; and
in their room assumed the consulship himself without a colleague, as if the fates had decreed
that Gaul should not be conquered, but by a consul.  Upon assuming the fasces, after an entertainment
at the palace, as he walked out of the room leaning on the arms of some of his friends, he
declared, that as soon as he arrived in the province, he would make his appearance amongst
the troops, unarmed, and do nothing but weep: and that, after he had brought the mutineers
to repentance, he would, the next day, in the public rejoicings, sing songs of triumph, which
he must now, without loss of time, apply himself to compose.

XLIV.  In preparing for this expedition, his first care was to provide carriages for his musical
instruments and machinery to be used upon the stage; to have the hair of the concubines he
carried with him dressed in the fashion of men; and to supply them with battle-axes, and Amazonian
bucklers.  He summoned the city-tribes to enlist; but no qualified persons appearing, he ordered
all masters to send a certain number of slaves, the best they had, not excepting their stewards
and secretaries. He commanded the several orders of the people to bring in a fixed proportion
of their estates, as they stood in the censor's books; all tenants of houses and mansions to
pay one year's rent forthwith into the exchequer; and, with unheard-of strictness, would receive
only new coin of the purest silver and the finest gold; insomuch that most people refused to
pay, crying out unanimously that he ought to squeeze the informers, and oblige them to surrender
their gains.

