During the troubles in the reign of Charles I., a country girl came to London, in search of
a situation; but not succeeding, she applied to be allowed to carry out beer from a brewhouse.
These females were then called "tub-women." The brewer observing her to be a very good-looking
girl, took her out of this low situation into his house, and afterwards married her. He died,
however, while she was yet a very young woman, and left her a large fortune. She was recommended,
on giving up the brewery, to Mr. Hyde, a most able lawyer, to settle her husband's affairs;
he, in process of time, married the widow, and was afterwards made Earl of Clarendon. Of this
marriage there was a daughter, who was afterwards wife to James II. and mother of Mary and
Anne, queens of England.

ZANGA.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAWYERS.

In 1454, an Act of Parliament notices, "that there had used formerly six or eight attorneys
only, for Suffolk, Norfolk, and Norwich together; that this number was now increased to more
than eighty, most of whom being not of sufficient knowledge, came to fairs, &c. inciting the
people to suits for small trespasses, &c. wherefore there shall be hereafter but six for Suffolk,
six for Norfolk, and two for the city of Norwich."

H.B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DYERS.

Inscription on a Tombstone in a Churchyard at Truro, Cornwall.

  A dyer born, a dyer bred,
  Lies numbered here among the dead;
  Dyers, like mortals doomed to die,
  Alike fit food for worms supply.
  Josephus Dyer was his name;
  By dyeing he acquired fame;
  'Twas in his forty-second year
  His neighbours kind did him inter.
  Josephus Dyer, his first son,
  Doth also lie beneath this stone;
  So likewise doth his second boy,
  Who was his parents' hope and joy.
  His handywork all did admire,
  For never was a better dyer.
  Both youths were in their fairest prime,
  Ripe fruitage of a healthful clime;
  But nought can check Death's lawless aim,
  Whosoever' life he choose to claim:
  It was God's edict from his throne,
  "My will shall upon earth be done."
  Then did the active mother's skill
  The vacancy with credit fill
  Till she grew old, and weak, and blind,
  And this last wish dwelt on her mind--
  That she, when dead, should buried be
  With her loved spouse and family.
  At last Death's arm her strength defied;
  Thus all the dyeing Dyers died!

       *       *       *       *       *

HALCYON DAYS.

Halcyon-days denote a time of peace and tranquillity. The expression takes its rise from a
sea-fowl, called among naturalists halcyon, or alcyon, which is said to build its nest about
the winter solstice, when the weather is usually observed to be still and calm. Aristotle and
Pliny tell us that this bird is most common in the seas of Sicily, that it sat only a few days,
and those in the depth of winter, and during that period the mariner might sail in full security;
for which reason they were styled Halcyon-days.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

USE OF TIME.

Dr. Cotton Mather, who was a man of uncommon dispatch and activity in the management of his
numerous affairs, and improved every minute of his time, that he might not suffer by silly,
impertinent, and tedious visiters, wrote over his study-door, in large letters, "Be short."

Ursinus, a professor in the University of Heidelburgh, and a diligent scholar, to prevent gossips
and idlers from interrupting him in his hours of study, wrote over the door of his library
the following lines--"Friend, whoever thou art that comest hither, dispatch thy business or
begone."

The learned Scaliger placed the following sentence over the doors of his study--"Tempus meum
est ager meus," "My time is my field or estate." And it is frequently the only valuable field
which the labourer, in body or mind, possesses.

