The palace is partly on the site of the well-known Mulberry Gardens, a place of entertainment
in the seventeenth century. These gardens originated in an order of James I., who wished to
encourage the rearing of silkworms in England. This project, like many others of the same King,
proved a failure, and the gardens were turned into a place of public recreation. The frequenters
were of the fashionable classes, and came in the evening to sit in small arbours, and "be regaled
with cheesecakes, syllabubs, and wine sweetened with sugar." In this form the place was extremely
popular, and is often mentioned in contemporary literature. Dryden came there to eat tarts
with "Mrs." Anne Reeve, and doubtless Evelyn and Pepys often strolled about in the gay crowd,
a crowd much gayer than it would now be--in the matter of costume, at all events. The scene
of "The Mulberry Gardens," a play by Sir Charles Sedley (1668) is laid here.

Stafford House, not far from St. James's Palace, and overlooking the Green Park, is now tenanted
by the Duke of Sutherland. It was originally built for the Duke of York, brother to George
IV., but he died before its completion. It stands on the site of an older building, called
Godolphin House, and also occupies the site of the Queen's Library formed by Caroline, wife
of George IV.

St. James's Palace is divided into many sets of apartments and suites of rooms, and in this
way resembles more the ancient than the modern idea of a palace. On its site once stood a hospital
for fourteen leprous women, which was founded, as Stow quaintly says, "long before the time
of any man's memory." Maitland says the hospital must have been standing before 1100 A.D.,
as it was then visited by the Abbot of Westminster. Eight brethren were subsequently added
to the institution. Several benevolent bequests of land were made to it from time to time.
In 1450 the custody of the hospital was granted perpetually to Eton College by Henry VI. In
1531 Henry VIII. obtained some of the neighbouring land from the Abbey of Westminster, and
in the following year he took the hospital also, giving lands in Suffolk in exchange for it.
There is reason to believe that he pensioned off the ejected inmates. At any rate, having demolished
the House of Mercy, he proceeded to build for himself a palace, which is supposed to have been
planned by Holbein, under the direction of Cromwell, Earl of Essex. Henry VIII. was too much
occupied in taking possession of Wolsey's palaces to bestow very much of his time on his own
new building, though he occasionally resided here before he acquired Whitehall. Edward VI.
did not live at St James's Palace regularly, but Queen Mary patronized it, preferring it to
Whitehall. It was granted to Prince Henry during the reign of James I., and Charles I. spent
the last three days before his execution here. The Prince known as the "Pretender" was born
in one of the palace apartments, and many historians have commented on the fact that this chamber
was conveniently near a small back-staircase, up which a new-born infant could have been smuggled.
During the reign of King William the palace was fitted up as a residence for Prince George
of Denmark and Princess Anne. When the Princess ascended the throne, the palace became the
regular residence of the Court, which it continued to be until the accession of Queen Victoria,
who preferred Buckingham Palace.

The only parts remaining of King Henry's building are the gatehouse, some turrets, a mantelpiece
in the presence chamber, which bears the initials H. and A. (Henry and Anne Boleyn) with a
true lovers' knot, the Chapel Royal (which has, of course, been renovated), and the tapestry-room.
Levées are still held at the palace.

