Alan came over one day early in February to see his aunt, and make sure that she was as comfortable
as she professed to be. It was a characteristic proceeding on his part. Mrs. Bundlecombe, as
the reader may have observed, was not very poetic in her taste, and not so refined in manners
as most of the women with whom Alan now associated. But he always thought of her as the sister
of his mother, to whom he had been romantically attached; and he had good reason, moreover,
to appreciate her devotion to himself during the last year or so. He found her fairly happy,
and said nothing which might disturb her peace of mind. Lettice Campion, he told her, had recovered
from a serious illness, and had gone on the Continent for a few weeks with Mrs. Hartley. He
was bent on obtaining a divorce, and expected the case to come on shortly. This he treated
as a matter for unmixed rejoicing; and he casually declared that he had not seen "the Frenchwoman"
for eight or ten weeks; which was true enough, but only because he was carefully keeping out
of her way. And it was a poor equivocation, as the reader will presently see.

So Mrs. Bundlecome flattered herself that things were going fairly well with her nephew, and
she possessed her soul in patience.

Now as Alan sat talking to his aunt in Mrs. Chigwin's best room, looking out upon the garden
on Mrs. Harrington's side, he suddenly started, and stopped short in what he was saying.

"Why, Aunt Bessy, who on earth is living next door to you?"

Mrs. Bundlecombe looked where he pointed, and was almost as much surprised as himself to see
Lettice's former maid, Milly, walking in the garden with all the airs and graces of a grand
lady. She had on a fur cloak, and a little cap to match, and she looked so handsome and well-dressed
that it would not have been surprising if Alan had not recognized her. But Milly's pretty face,
once seen, was not easily forgotten; and, as she was associated with Lettice in Alan's mind,
he had all the more reason for recalling her features.

"That is the first I have seen of her in these parts," said Mrs. Bundlecombe. "You remember
that Miss Campion had a Thorley girl at Maple Cottage, who left her five or six months ago?"

"I remember your telling me so--Milly, she used to be called?"

"Yes, Emily Harrington. That is the girl, without a doubt. Her grandmother lives over yonder;
but I never knew that she was expecting a visit from this fine lady. Only last week she was
telling me that she had not heard from Milly for several months. There was a letter from her
before Christmas, to say that she was married and traveling abroad."

Mrs. Bundlecombe shook her head dubiously from side to side, and continued the motion for some
time. She was thinking how much money it would have taken to buy that sealskin cloak; but,
however far her doubts may have carried her, she did not give utterance to them in words.

"She is certainly very nice-looking," said Alan. "And she seems to be getting on in the world.
Perhaps she has made a good marriage; I should not at all wonder."

"Well, it is charitable to hope so," said Aunt Bessy, with an expression in her face that was
anything but hopeful. "I can't forgive her for leaving Miss Campion in such a hurry. I suppose
she wanted to better herself, as those minxes always say. As if anyone could be better off
than living with her!"

Alan turned round to the window again, and looked out. His aunt's words touched a chord in
his heart, which vibrated strongly. To live with her, in any capacity whatever--assuredly that
would be the highest attainable good. To draw from her gentle presence that bliss of absolute
rest and ease which he had never known until he came to know her--to talk and listen without
a shadow of reserve, forgetting self, unashamed of any inferiority which his mind might show
in comparison with hers, unafraid of giving offense to that sweet and well-poised nature--to
look upon her face, almost infantile in its ingenuous expression, yet with indomitable strength
in the clear grey eyes which revealed the soul within--to live with her would indeed be perfect
happiness!

And the more he felt this, the less hopeful he was of realizing his aspiration. She had been
ill, at the point of death, and he could not be near her. He had inquired of her progress at
the Grahams' house, but always in fear lest he should bring sorrow to her, or annoyance to
them. The creature whom he had made his wife was never absent from his thoughts. In his most
despondent moments he ceased to believe that he would ever be able to shake her off. She haunted
him, asleep or awake, at his meals and at his books, in his quiet lodging or when he stole
out for a solitary walk. He tried to persuade himself that he exaggerated his trouble, and
that there were plenty of men under similar circumstances who would not allow their peace of
mind to be disturbed. But if he was weaker than others, that did not make his pain less bitter.
He feared her, and dreaded the fulfilment of her threats; yet not so much on his own account
as because they were directed against Lettice.

It was no consolation to him to think that the law would punish her--that the police would
remove her as a drunken brawler--that the courts could give him his divorce, or perhaps shut
her up as a madwoman. What good would even a divorce be to him if she had slandered Lettice,
blackened his character, alienated all whom he loved, and remained alive to be the curse and
poison of his existence?

As he pondered these things in his heart, the trouble which he had fought off when he came
down into the country that morning returned upon him with renewed force. He had fled from town
to escape from the agony of shame and disgust which she had once more inflicted on him, and
he groaned aloud as he thought of what had happened in the last few days.

"I think I must have a touch of the gout," he said, turning round to where his aunt was sitting,
with a pleasant smile on his face. "It catches me sometimes with such a sudden twinge that
I cannot help crying out like that."

Aunt Bessy looked hard at him, and shook her head; but she said nothing.

Soon after that, Alan went away; and he had not been gone half-an-hour, when there came a gentle
rap at the cottage door.

Mrs. Bundlecombe opened it at once, and found, as she had expected, that the visitor was none
other than our old friend Milly. Aunt Bessy had had a few minutes to prepare herself for this
scene, and was therefore able to comport herself, as she imagined, with proper dignity. Affecting
not to see the pretty hand which was held out to her, she started back, looked inquisitively
into the other's face, and then cried out, as she turned her head round upon her shoulders,
"Well, Martha! Martha Chigwin! Here is an old acquaintance come to see us. Emily Harrington,
love, Mrs. Harrington's grand-daughter, who went to live with Miss Campion in London. Well,
you did surprise me!" she said in a more quiet voice. "Come in and sit down, Emily Harrington!"

"Granny told me you were here," said Milly, a little taken aback by this reception, "so I thought
I must come in and see how you were."

"We are very well, thank you kindly, Milly. And how are you? But there is no need to ask you,
for you look a picture of health, and spirits, and--and good luck, Milly Harrington!"

"Oh yes, I am very well. You don't know that I have been married since you saw me last. My
name is Mrs. Beadon now."

She drew off her glove as she spoke, and let her long hand fall upon her lap, so that the old
ladies might see her wedding-ring and keeper.

"Well, my dear," said Mrs. Bundlecombe, in a mollified voice, "if you are married to a good
man, I am very glad, indeed. And I hope he is well to-do, and makes you happy. You are nicely
dressed, Milly, but nice clothes are not everything, are they?"

"No, indeed, they are not. Oh, yes, Mr. Beadon is good to me in every way, so you need not
trouble yourself on my account."

After that preliminary sparring, they became friendly enough. Milly was quite at her ease when
her position as a wife was established, and she amused her hearers by a lively account of her
recent fortunes and adventures--some of them, perhaps, slightly fictitious in character, others
exaggerated and glorified. Her husband, she told them, was a great traveler, and was sometimes
out of England for six months or a year at a time. He had just gone abroad again, and she had
taken the opportunity of coming to see her grandmother--and even of living with her for awhile,
if she found Birchmead supportable. They were not rich, but Mr. Beadon allowed her quite enough
to live comfortably upon.

So she played the grand lady in the hamlet, to her own infinite satisfaction. But now and again
she had business to transact in London, and then she would send to Thorley for a cab, and take
the afternoon train to Liverpool Street, and return in about twenty-four hours, generally with
some little present in her bag for her grandmother, or grandmother's friends.

None the less did poor Milly find that time hung heavy on her hands. She had not yet clipped
the wings of her ambition, and she still pined for a wider sphere in which to satisfy her vague
and restless longings. However she might brave it out to others, she was very far from being
happy; and now and then she took herself to task, and admitted that all she had, and all she
hoped for, would be but a small price to give if she could purchase once more the freedom of
her girlhood.

CHAPTER XIX.

SIR JOHN'S GLOXINIAS.

Whatever may have been the intention of Nature when she produced Sir John Pynsent, there was
no doubt as to his own conception of the part which he was fitted to play in the world.

He considered himself, and indeed he was, above all things, a manipulator of men. His talents
in this direction had been displayed at school and at college, and when he settled down to
political life in London, and impulsively began to suggest, to persuade, to contrive, and to
organize, everyone with whom he came in contact acknowledged a superior mind, or, at any rate,
a more ingenious and fertile mind. He had refused to bind himself down to an office, as his
friends wanted him to do, or to take part in the direction of a "Central Association" for dealing
with men in the lump. It was absurd to think of tying Sir John to a place, or a routine, or
a pledge of any kind. His art was to be ubiquitous; he aspired to be the great permeator of
the Conservative party; and by sheer force of activity he soon became the best known and most
popular of the younger generation of Tories.

His triumphs as a manager of men were not confined to public life. He was one of a numerous
family, and he managed them all. Every Pynsent deferred to Sir John's opinion, not merely because
he was the head of the house, but because he had assumed the command, and justified the assumption
by his shrewdness and common-sense.

The one person in the family who gave most anxiety was his half-sister, Anna. Sir John's father
had married a second time, when his son was a youth at Eton, and Anna, the fruit of this union,
inherited, not only her mother's jointure of twenty thousand pounds, but a considerable fortune
from her mother's elder brother, who had been a manufacturer in Vanebury. This fortune had
been allowed to accumulate for the last eighteen years, as her father, and after him, her brother,
had provided her with a home, and disdained to touch "Nan's money." Sir John was a very good
brother to her, and it was even rumored that he had married early chiefly for the purpose of
providing Nan with an efficient chaperon. Whether this was true or not, he had certainly married
a woman who suited him admirably; Lady Pynsent sympathized in all his tastes and ambitions,
gave excellent dinner parties, and periodically brought a handsome boy into the world to inherit
the family name and embarrass the family resources. At present there were five of these boys,
but as the family resources were exceedingly large, and Sir John was a most affectionate parent,
the advent of each had been hailed with increasing satisfaction.

It was a great relief to Sir John's mind to find that his wife and his sister were such good
friends. He might be a manipulator of man, but he was not--he acknowledged to himself--always
successful in his manipulation of women. If Selina had found Nan in the way, or if Nan had
been jealous of Selina and Selina's babies, Sir John felt that he would have been placed on
the horns of a dilemma. But this had not been the case. Nan was in the schoolroom when Lady
Pynsent first arrived at Culverley, and the child had been treated with kindness and discretion.
Nan repaid the kindness by an extravagant fondness for her little nephews, who treated her
abominably, and the discretion by an absolute surrender of her will to Lady Pynsent's as far
as her intercourse with the outer world was concerned. With her inner life, she considered
that Lady Pynsent had not much to do, and it was in its manifestation that Sir John observed
the signs which made him anxious.

Nan, he said to himself, was a handsome girl, and one whom many men were sure to admire. Also,
she had sixty thousand pounds of her own, of which she would be absolute mistress when she
was twenty-one. It was a sum which was sure to attract fortune-hunters; and how could he tell
whether Nan would not accept her first offer, and then stick to an unsuitable engagement with
all the obstinacy which she was capable of displaying? Nan sometimes made odd friends, and
would not give them up at anybody's bidding. How about the man she married? She would have
her own way in that matter--Sir John was sure of it--and, after refusing all the eligible young
men within reach, would (he told his wife repeatedly) end by taking up with a crooked stick
at last.

"I don't think she'll do that," said Lady Pynsent when her husband appealed in this way to
her. "Nan is very difficile. She is more likely to remain unmarried than marry an unsuitable man."

"Unmarried!" Sir John threw up his hands. "She must marry! Why, if she doesn't marry, she is
just the girl to take up a thousand fads--to make herself the laughing-stock of the county!"

"She will not do that; she has too much good taste."

"Good taste won't avail her! You know what her plans are already, to live in Vanebury as soon
as she is twenty-one, and devote herself to the welfare of the working-people! Don't you call
that a fad? Won't she make a laughing stock of herself and of us too? Why, it's worse than
Radicalism--it's pure Socialism and Quixotry," said poor Sir John, who was proud of his Toryism.

His wife only shook her head, and said, drily, that she would not undertake to prophesy.

"Prophesy? My dear Selina, I merely want you to exert common caution and foresight. There is
but one thing to do with Anna. We must get her married as soon as ever we can, before she is
twenty-one, if possible. She must marry a man on our own side, some years older than herself--a
man of the world, who will look after her property and teach her common-sense--a man who can
restrain her, and guide her, and make her happy. I would give a thousand pounds to find such
a man."

But in his own heart the baronet believed that he had found him, for he thought of his friend,
Sydney Campion.

Campion had small private means, if any; he knew that; but then he seemed likely to be one
of the foremost men of the day, and if he could achieve his present position at his age, what
would he not be in ten years' time? Quite a match for Anna Pynsent, in spite of her beauty
and her sixty thousand pounds. If Nan had been a little more commonplace, Sir John would have
aspired higher for her. But there was a strain of "quixotry," as he called it, in her nature,
which made him always uncertain as to her next action. And he felt that it would be a relief
to him to have her safely married to a friend of his own, and one whom he could influence,
if necessary, in the right direction, like Sydney Campion.

Campion was a handsome fellow, too, and popular, Sir John believed, with the ladies. It was
all the more odd and unaccountable that Nan seemed to have taken a dislike to him. She would
not talk about his doings; she would go out if she thought that he was likely to call. Sir
John could not understand it. And Campion seemed shy of coming to the house in Eaton Square
when the Pynsents returned to town; he was pleasant enough with Sir John at the Club, but he
did not appear to wish for much social intercourse with Sir John's wife and sister. The worthy
baronet would have been a little huffed, but for the preoccupation of his mind with other matters,
chiefly political.

But this was in November and December; and he knew that Campion's mother had lately died, and
that he was anxious about that clever sister of his, who had lately written a good novel, and
then been ill, and had gone to Italy. There was that Walcott affair, too, which had lately
come to Sir John's ears, a very awkward affair for Campion to have his sister's name mixed
up in. Probably that was the reason why he was holding back. Very nice of Campion, very nice.
And Sir John became doubly cordial in his manner, and pressed Sydney to dine with him next week.

With some reluctance, Sydney accepted the invitation. He had been perilously near making a
fool of himself with Miss Pynsent, and he knew that she had found it out. It was quite enough
to make him feel angry and resentful, and to wish to avoid her. At the same time, he was conscious
of a feeling of regret that he had muddled matters so completely--for Miss Pynsent was a lovely
girl, her violin-playing was delicious, she had sixty thousand pounds, and Sir John was his friend.

Sydney lost himself for a moment in a reverie.

"Not very likely," he said, waking up with a rather uneasy laugh. "At the best of times, I
should never have had much chance. There are a good many reasons against it now." And it was
with a slight shade upon his brow that he dismissed the matter from his mind and applied himself
to business.

He need not have troubled himself. When he went to dine in Eaton Square, Miss Pynsent was absent.
She had gone to spend the evening with a friend. Evidently, thought Sydney, with an odd feeling
of discomfiture, because she wanted to avoid him. How ridiculous it was! What a self-conscious
little fool she must be to take offense at a compliment, even if it were rather obvious, and
not in the best possible taste! He began to feel angry with Miss Pynsent. It did not occur
to him for some time that he was expending a great deal of unusual warmth and irritation on
a very trifling matter. What were Miss Pynsent and her opinions to him? Other women admired
him, if she did not; other women were ready enough to accept his flattery. But just because
there was one thing out of his reach, one woman who showed a positive distaste for his society,
Sydney, like the spoiled child of the world that he was, was possessed by a secret hankering
for that one thing, for the good opinion of the woman who would have none of him. Vanity was
chiefly to blame for this condition of things; but Sydney's vanity was a plant of very long
and steady growth.

He saw nothing more of the Pynsents, however, until February, when, on the day of the first
drawing-room, he ran up against Sir John in Piccadilly.

"Come along," said Sir John instantly, "I want you to come to my wife's. I'm late, and she
won't scold me if you are with me. I shall use you as a buffer."

Sydney laughed and shook his head. "Very sorry, too busy, I'm afraid," he began.

But Sir John would not be baffled. He had put his hand within Sydney's arm and was walking
him rapidly down ---- Street.

"My dear fellow, we've not seen you for an age. You may just as well look in this afternoon.
Nan's been presented to-day, and there's a drawing-room tea going on--a function of adoration
to the dresses, I believe. The women will take it as a personal compliment if you come and
admire them."

Mentally, Sydney shrugged his shoulders. He had had enough of paying compliments to Miss Pynsent.
But he saw that there was no help for it. Sir John would be offended if he did not go, and
really he had no engagement. And he rather wondered how Miss Pynsent would look in Court attire.
She had worn a plain cotton and a flapping straw hat when he saw her last.

Lady Pynsent's drawing-room was crowded, but she greeted her husband and Mr. Campion with great
cordiality. She was wearing an elaborate costume of blue velvet and blush-rose satin, and bore
an indescribable resemblance to a cockatoo. A dowager in black satin and two débutantes in
white, who belonged to some country place and were resting at Lady Pynsent's house before going
home in the evening, were also present; but at first Sydney did not see Nan Pynsent. She had
entered a little morning-room, with two or three friends of her own age, who wanted to inspect
her dress more narrowly; and it was not until Sydney had been in the room for five or ten minutes
that she reappeared.

Was this stately and beautiful woman Nan Pynsent indeed? Sydney was not learned in the art
of dress, or he might have appraised more exactly the effect produced by the exquisite lace,
the soft white ostrich feathers, the milk-white pearls, that Nan was wearing on this memorable
occasion. He was well accustomed by this time to the sight of pretty girls and pretty dresses;
but there was something in Miss Pynsent's face and figure which struck him with a new and almost
reluctant sort of admiration.

He was looking at her, without knowing how intent his gaze had become, when she glanced round
and caught his eye. She bowed and colored slightly; then, after saying a word to Lady Pynsent,
she came towards him. Sydney was uncomfortably conscious that her evident intention to speak
to him made her a little nervous.

She held out her long, slim hand, and favored him with the pleasantest of smiles.

"How do you do, Mr. Campion? I have not met you for a long time, I think. How good of you to
come to-day! Lady Pynsent is so pleased."

There was nothing for Sydney to do but to respond in the same gracious strain; but he was certainly
more reserved than usual in his speech, and behaved with an almost exaggerated amount of respect
and formality. After the first two or three sentences he noticed that her eyes began to look
abstractedly away from him, and that she answered one of his remarks at random. And while he
was wondering, with some irritation, what this change might mean, she drew back into a bow
window, and motioned to him almost imperceptibly to follow her. A heavy window curtain half
hid them from curious eyes, and a bank of flowers in the window gave them an ostensible pretext
for their withdrawal.

"Look at John's gloxinias," said Nan. "They came from Culverley, you know. Oh, Mr. Campion,
I want to tell you--I'm sorry that I was so rude to you at Culverley last summer."

This proceeding was so undignified and so unexpected that Sydney was stricken dumb with amaze.

"Perhaps you have forgotten it," said Nan, coloring hotly; "but I have not. It all came from
you not knowing who I was, I suppose--Mrs. Murray told me that she believes you thought I was
the governess; and if I had been, how odd it must have seemed to you that I should talk about
your duties to the Vanebury laborers! You know I have some property there, and so----"

"Oh, it was perfectly natural, and I never thought of it again," said Sydney lamely. But she
went on unheeding--

"And then I felt vexed, and when you asked me for a flower"--how innocently it was said!--"I
know I banged the door in your face. Selina said I must have been very rude to you. And so I was."

But Selina had not meant that she should acknowledge her "rudeness" to Mr. Campion, nor had
Nan told her of the bold admiration that she had read in Sydney's eyes.

"Will you forgive me, Mr. Campion? You are such a friend of John's that I should not like to
think I had offended you."

"You never offended me, Miss Pynsent. In fact, I'm afraid--I--was very dense." He really did
not know what to say; Miss Pynsent's naïveté almost alarmed him.

"Then you are not angry with me?"

How lovely were the eyes that looked so pleadingly into his face! Was she a coquette? But he
could only answer as in duty bound--

"Not angry in the very least, Miss Pynsent."

"I am so glad. Because I want to talk to you about Vanebury one day. But I must not stop now,
for there are all these people to talk to, you know."

"I may ask you to forgive the stupidity of my mistake, then?" said Sydney quickly.

"It was not stupid: how could you know who I was?----There, John, I have been showing Mr. Campion
your gloxinias. Don't you think them lovely, Mr. Campion?"

And she glided away with the sweetest smile, and Sydney, after a few words with Sir John, took
his departure, with a feeling of mingled gratification and amusement which he found rather
pleasant. So she had not thought him impertinent, after all? She did not seem to have noticed
the compliment that he had tried to pay her, and which he now acknowledged to himself would
have suited for Milly Harrington better than Sir John Pynsent's sister. Was she really as childlike
as she seemed, or was she a designing coquette?

The question was not a very important one, but it led Sydney to make a good many visits to
Sir John's house during the next few weeks, in order to determine the answer. Miss Pynsent's
character interested him, he said to himself; and then she wanted to discuss the state of the
working-classes in Vanebury. He did not care very much for the state of the working-classes,
but he liked to hear her talk to him about them. It was a pity that he sometimes forgot to
listen to what she was saying; but the play of expression on her lovely face was so varied,
the lights and shadows in her beautiful eyes succeeded each other so rapidly, that he was a
little apt to look at her instead of attending to the subject that she had in hand.

This was quite a new experience to Sydney, and for some time his mind was so much occupied
by it that the season was half over before he actually faced the facts of the situation, and
discovered that if he wanted to pluck this fair flower, and wear it as his own, Sir John Pynsent
was not the man to say him nay.

BOOK IV.

SORROW.

    "Wer nie sein Brod mit Thränen ass,
    Wer nie die kummervollen Nächte
    Auf seinen Bette weinend sass,
    Er kennt Euch nicht, ihr himmlische Mächte!"

    GOETHE.

CHAPTER XX.

"I WAS THE MORE DECEIVED."

Milly Harrington had passed two months at Birchmead, and her grandmother's neighbors were beginning
to speculate on the probabilities of her staying over the summer.

"Poor soul; it's lonely for her," Mrs. Chigwin said to her friend, Elizabeth. "I do hope that
Mr. Beadon, or whatever her husband's name is, will come back before very long. She must be
fretting for him, and fretting's so bad for her."

"You think there is a husband to come, do you?" asked Mrs. Bundlecombe, mysteriously.

"Why not, Bessy? She says she's married, and she wears a wedding-ring; and her clothes is beautiful."

"I'd like to see her marriage lines," said Mrs. Bundlecombe. "But, there! maybe I'm hard on
her, poor thing, which I ought not to be, seeing that I know what trouble is, and how strangely
marriages do turn out sometimes. But if there is a husband in the case, it's shameful the way
he neglects her, never coming to see her, and going abroad on business, as she says, while
she stays with her grandmother!"

"She pays Mrs. Harrington," remarked Mrs. Chigwin, reflectively, "and she always seems to have
plenty of money; but she do look sad and mournful now and then, and money's not everything
to those that want a little love."

As she concluded her moral observation, she started up, for a shadow darkened the open doorway:
and on looking up, she saw that Milly herself was standing just outside. The girl's beautiful
face was pale and agitated; and there were tears in her eyes. The old woman noticed that she
was growing haggard, and that there were black lines beneath her eyes; they exchanged significant
looks, and then asked her to step in and sit down.

"You run about too much and fatigue yourself," said Mrs. Chigwin. "Now you sit there and look
at my flowers, how still they keep; they wouldn't be half so fine if I was always transplanting
them. You want a good, quiet home for yourself: not to be moving about and staying with friends,
however fond of you they may be."

Milly had sunk into the chair offered to her, with a look of extreme exhaustion and fatigue,
but at Mrs. Chigwin's words she sat up, and her eyes began to grow bright again.

"I think so myself, Mrs. Chigwin. I shall be glad to get back to my own nice quiet home again.
As for looking tired, it is only because I have been packing up my things and getting ready
to go. Mr. Beadon has written to me to join him in London, and I am going to start this very
afternoon."

The rosy color came back into her face: she smiled triumphantly, but her lips quivered as she
smiled.

"That's right, my dear. I don't approve of young husbands and wives living separate, unless
there's some very good cause for it," said Mrs. Bundlecombe, thinking of her beloved Alan.
"It always gives occasion to the enemy, and I think you're very wise to go back. Perhaps you
had some little bit of a tiff or misunderstanding with Mr. Beadon----"

"Oh no," said Milly. The color in her face was painfully hot now. "Mr. Beadon is always very
good and kind. But," she continued, looking down and pushing her wedding-ring to and fro, "he
is very busy indeed, and he is obliged to go abroad sometimes on business. He travels--I think
he calls it--for a great London house. He is getting on very well, he says, in his own particular
line."

"Ah, that is nice!" said Mrs. Chigwin, comfortably. "And how glad you will be to see each other."

"Oh, yes," faltered Milly. There was a curiously pathetic look in her great blue eyes such
as we sometimes see in those of a timid child. "Yes--very glad."

"And you'll bring him down here to see your grandmother, I suppose? She's not set eyes on him
yet, has she? And how nice it will be for you to come down now and then--especially when you
have a family, my dear, Birchmead being so healthy for children, and Mrs. Harrington such a
good hand with babies----"

Suddenly, and to Mrs. Chigwin's infinite surprise, Milly burst into tears. The loud, uncontrolled
sobs frightened the two old women for a moment; then Mrs. Chigwin got up and fetched a glass
of water, clicking her tongue against the roof of her mouth, and audibly expressing her fear
that Milly's exertions had been "too much for her." But Mrs. Bundlecombe sat erect, with a
look of something like disapproval upon her comely old face. She had her own views concerning
Milly and her good fortune; and soft and kind-hearted by nature as she was, there were some
things that Aunt Bessy never forgave. The wickedness of Alan's wife had hardened her a little
to youthful womankind.

"I'm better, thank you," said Milly, checking her sobs at last, and beginning to laugh hysterically.
"I don't know what made me give way so, I'm sure."

"You're tired, love," said Mrs. Chigwin, sympathetically, "and you're not well, that's easy
to see. You must just take care of yourself, or you'll be laid up. You tell your good husband
that from me, who have had experience, though without a family myself."

Milly wiped the tears away, and rose from her chair.

"I'll tell him," she said. "But--oh, there's no need: he takes an awful lot of care of me,
you've no idea! Why, it was he that said I had better come to my grandmother while he was away:
he knew that granny would take care of me; and now, you see"--with hasty triumph--"he wants
me home again!"

She pocketed her handkerchief, and raised her head.

"I thought you said he had been abroad?" said Mrs. Bundlecombe.

"Of course I did, because he has been abroad," the girl said, laughing nervously. "But he's
in London now. Well, good-bye, Mrs. Chigwin; good-bye, Mrs. Bundlecombe; you'll go in and comfort
granny a bit when I'm gone, won't you? She's been fretting this morning about my going away."

"Bless you, love," said Mrs. Chigwin. "I'll go in every day if you think it will do her any
good. And if you write to her, Milly, she'll be pleased, I'm sure."

"I will write," said Milly, in rather a shame-faced way. "I was so busy--or I'd have written
oftener. Good-bye."

She looked at them wistfully, as if reluctant to take her leave; and her expression so wrought
upon Mrs. Chigwin's feelings that she kissed the girl's cheek affectionately.

"Good-bye, love," she said; "you know where to find us when you want us, you know."

Milly departed, and the two friends remained silent until her light figure had passed the window,
and the click of the garden gate told them that she was well out of hearing. Then Mrs. Chigwin
began, in rather a puzzled tone:

"You weren't very hearty with her, Elizabeth. You looked as if you had something against her."

"I've this against her," said Mrs. Bundlecombe, smoothing down her black apron with dignity,
"that I believe there's something wrong about that marriage, and that if I were Mrs. Harrington
I wouldn't be satisfied until I'd seen her marriage lines."

"Perhaps she has seen them," said Mrs. Chigwin, the pacific. "And we've nothing to go upon,
Bessy, and I'm sure the idea would never have entered my head but for you."

"Why did she burst out crying when you talked of her husband and children coming down here?"
asked Mrs. Bundlecombe, acutely. "It may be that she isn't to blame; but there's something
wrong somewhere. She's hurried and flurried and worried."

And this was true. The summons which Milly had received was of the briefest and least intelligible
character. It was in a handwriting that she knew well, and although it was unsigned she was
tremulously ready and eager to obey it at once. "Come back to your old lodgings at Hampstead,"
the writer said. "Do not stay any longer at Birchmead: I want you in London." And that was
almost all.

Milly hovered all day long between alternations of wild hope and wild despair. If she had been
accustomed to self-analysis, she herself might have been surprised to see how widely her present
moods differed from those which had dominated her when she lived at Maple Cottage. She was
then a vain, self-seeking little damsel, affectionate and uncorrupted, with an empty head,
indeed, but an innocent heart. Now both self-seeking and vanity were being scourged out of
her by force of the love which she had learnt to feel. She was little changed in manner, and
an observer might have said that she was as childishly pleased as ever with a new gaud or a
pretty toy; but behind the self-sufficiency of her demeanor, and the frivolity of her tastes,
there was something new--something more real and living than mere self-indulgence and conceit.
The faculty of giving and spending herself for others had sprung into being with the first
love she had known. For the man with whom she had gone away from Lettice's house she was willing
to lay down her life if he would but accept the gift. And when he seemed loath to accept it,
Milly became conscious of a heart-sick shame and pain which had already often brought tears
that were not unworthy to her pretty childish eyes. The strength of her own feelings frightened
her sometimes: she did not know how to resist the surging tide of passion and longing and regret
that rose and fell within her breast, as uncontrollable by her weak will as the waves by the
Danish king of history. Poor Milly's soul had been born within her, as a woman's soul is often
born through love, and the acquisition cost her nothing but pain as yet, although it might
ultimately lead her to a higher life.

She arrived at the lodgings in Hampstead which had formerly been hers, about five o'clock in
the afternoon. The landlady received her cordially, saying that "the gentleman had bespoke
the rooms," and Milly was taken at once into the sitting-room, which looked west, and was lighted
by a flood of radiance from the setting sun. Milly sank down on a sofa, in hopeless fatigue.

"Did he say that he would be home to-night?" she asked of the landlady.

"No, Mrs. Beadon, he didn't; but he said that he was very busy in the city and would write
or send if he couldn't come himself."

"How was he looking?"

"Oh, very well, but a bit worried, I thought," said Mrs. Capper. "Now let me take your things,
ma'am, and then I'll bring up the tea: you don't look as if your stay in the country had done
you much good after all."

"Oh, I'm very well," said Milly, unfastening her mantle and coloring with nervousness under
the woman's sharp eye. "I daresay Mr. Beadon will come to-morrow, if he doesn't come to-night."

But nobody came, although she sat up watching and waiting for many hours after Mrs. Capper
had betaken herself to her bed. What did this silence and absence mean? Her heart contracted
with a curious dread. She loved, but she had never believed herself capable of retaining love.

About eleven o'clock next day, she was informed that a gentleman wanted to speak to her. "A
young-looking, fair gentleman, like a clerk," said Mrs. Capper. "Shall I show him up? It's
from your good 'usband, most likely, I should think."

Milly started from the chair by the window, where she had been sitting. "Oh, show him up, at
once, please."

With one hand on the table, and her delicate face flushed, she presented a picture of loveliness
such as the man who entered did not often see. He even paused for a moment on the threshold
as if too much amazed to enter, and his manner was somewhat uneasy as he bowed to her, with
his eyes fixed in a rather furtive manner on her face.

He was a man of thirty-five, although his smooth-shaven face and fair hair made him look younger
than his years. It was a commonplace countenance, shrewd and intelligent enough, but not very
attractive. There was a certain honesty in his eyes, however, which redeemed the plainness
of his insignificant and irregular features.

"Mrs. Beadon, I think?" he said. "My name's Johnson. I come from Mr.--Mr. Beadon with a message."

"Yes?" said Milly, her hand upon her side. "What is it, please? Tell me quickly--is he coming
to-day?"

The man looked at her oddly. There was something like pity in his eyes.

"Not to-day, madam," he replied.

Milly sank down on her chair again and sighed deeply. The color left her cheeks.

