If, many years ago, when I first wrote and also published these Lives of the Painters and other
Craftsmen, I had possessed that full information which I have since received concerning Fra
Giocondo of Verona, a man of rare parts and a master of all the most noble faculties, I would
without a doubt have made that honourable record of him which I am now about to make for the
benefit of craftsmen, or rather, of the world; and not of him only, but also of many other
masters of Verona, who have been truly excellent. And let no one marvel that I place them all
under the image of one only, because, not having been able to obtain portraits of them all,
I am forced to do this; but, so far as in me lies, not one of them shall thereby have his excellence
defrauded of its due.

Now, since the order of time and merit so demands, I shall speak first of Fra Giocondo. This
man, when he assumed the habit of S. Dominic, was called not simply Fra Giocondo, but Fra Giovanni
Giocondo. How the name Giovanni dropped from him I know not, but I do know that he was always
called Fra Giocondo by everyone. And although his chief profession was that of letters, and
he was not only a very good philosopher and theologian, but also an excellent Greek scholar
(which was a rare thing at that time, when learning and letters were just beginning to revive
in Italy), nevertheless he was also a very fine architect, being a man who always took supreme
delight in that art, as Scaliger relates in his epistle against Cardan, and the learned Budé
in his book "De Asse," and in the observations that he wrote on the Pandects.

Fra Giocondo, then, who was a fine scholar, a capable architect, and an excellent master of
perspective, spent many years near the person of the Emperor Maximilian, and was master in
the Greek and Latin tongues to the learned Scaliger, who writes that he heard him dispute with
profound learning on matters of the greatest subtlety before the same Maximilian. It is related
by persons still living, who remember the facts very clearly, that at the time when Verona
was under the power of that Emperor the bridge which is called the Ponte della Pietra, in that
city, was being restored, and it was seen to be necessary to refound the central pier, which
had been destroyed many times in the past, and Fra Giocondo gave the design for refounding
it, and also for safeguarding it in such a manner that it might never be destroyed again. His
method of safeguarding it was as follows: he gave orders that the pier should be kept always
bound together with long double piles fixed below the water on every side, to the end that
these might so protect it that the river should not be able to undermine it; for the place
where it is built is in the main current of the river, the bed of which is so soft that no
solid ground can be found on which to lay its foundations. And excellent, in truth, as is evident
from the result, was the advice of Fra Giocondo, for the reason that the pier has stood firm
from that time to our own, as it still does, without ever showing a crack; and there is hope
that, by the observation of the suggestions given by that good monk, it will stand for ever.

In his youth Fra Giocondo spent many years in Rome, giving his attention to the study of antiquities,
and not of buildings only, but also of the ancient inscriptions that are in the tombs, and
the other relics of antiquity, both in Rome itself and its neighbourhood, and in every part
of Italy; and he collected all these inscriptions and memorials into a most beautiful book,
which he sent as a present, according to the account of the citizens of Verona mentioned above,
to the elder Lorenzo de' Medici, the Magnificent, to whom, by reason of the great friendliness
and favour that he showed to all men of talent, both Fra Giocondo and Domizio Calderino, his
companion and compatriot, were always most deeply devoted. Of this book Poliziano makes mention
in his Mugellane, in which he uses various parts of it as authorities, calling Fra Giocondo
a profound master in antiquities.

The same Giocondo wrote some observations, which are in print, on the Commentaries of Cæsar;
and he was the first who made a drawing of the bridge built by Cæsar over the River Rhone,
and described by him in those same Commentaries, but misunderstood in the time of Fra Giocondo.
Him the aforesaid Budé confesses to have had as his master in the study of architecture, thanking
God that he had been taught his Vitruvius by a teacher so learned and so diligent as was that
monk, who corrected in that author a vast number of errors not recognized up to that time;
and this he was able to do with ease, because he was a master of every kind of learning, and
had a good knowledge of both the Greek tongue and the Latin. This and other things declares
Budé, extolling Fra Giocondo as an excellent architect, and adding that by the researches of
the same monk there were discovered in an old library in Paris the greater part of the Epistles
of Pliny, which, after having been so long out of the hands of mankind, were printed by Aldus
Manutius, as may be read in a Latin letter written by him and printed with the same.

When living in Paris in the service of King Louis XII, Fra Giocondo built two superb bridges
over the Seine, covered with shops--works truly worthy of that magnanimous King and of the
marvellous intellect of Fra Giocondo. Wherefore that master, in addition to the inscription
in his praise that may still be seen on those works, won the honour of being celebrated by
Sannazzaro, a rare poet, in this most beautiful distich:

  Jocundus geminum imposuit tibi, Sequana, pontem;
    Hunc tu jure potes dicere pontificem.

Besides this, he executed a vast number of other works for that King throughout all his kingdom;
but of these, after having made mention of those above, as being the greatest, I shall say no more.

Then, happening to be in Rome at the death of Bramante, he was placed, in company with Raffaello
da Urbino and Giuliano da San Gallo, in charge of the Church of S. Pietro, to the end that
the structure begun by Bramante might be carried forward. Now, from the circumstance that it
had been erected in haste, and for other reasons given in another place, it was threatening
to fall in many parts, and by the advice of Fra Giocondo, Raffaello, and Giuliano, the foundations
were in great measure renewed; in which work persons who were present and are still living
declare that those masters adopted the following method. They excavated below the foundations
many large pits after the manner of wells, but square, at a proper distance one from another,
which they filled with masonry; and between every two of these piers, or rather pits filled
with masonry, they threw very strong arches across the space below, insomuch that the whole
building came to be placed on new foundations without suffering any shock, and was secured
for ever from the danger of showing any more cracks.

