 The first and third had been bad and had used her ill, but
the second had used her well, so she counted him as safe.

"Yes," said the man, "I know him well."

"How does he get on there?" asked the woman.

"Only pretty well," said the man. "He goes about begging from one house to another, and has
but little food, or clothes on his back. As to money he has nothing."

"Heaven have mercy on him!" cried the woman. "He ought not to go about in such a miserable
state when he left so much behind. There is a cupboard full of clothes which belonged to him,
and there is a big box full of money, too. If you will take the things with you, you can have
a horse and cart to carry them. He can keep the horse, and he can sit in the cart as he goes
from house to house, for so he ought to go."

The man from Ringerige got a whole cart-load of clothes and a box full of bright silver money,
with meat and drink, as much as he wanted. When he had got all he wished, he got into the cart,
and once more set out.

"That is the third," said he to himself.

Now the woman's third husband was ploughing in a field, and when he saw a man he did not know
come out of his yard with his horse and cart, he went home and asked his wife, who it was that
was going off with the black horse.

"Oh," said the woman, "that is a man from Himmerige (Heaven). He told me that things went so
miserably with my second Peter, my poor husband, that he had to go begging from house to house
and had no money or clothes. I have therefore sent him the old clothes he left behind, and
the old money box with the money in it."

The man saw how matters were, so he saddled a horse and went out of the yard at full speed.
It was not long before he came up to the man who sat and drove the cart. When the other saw
him he drove the horse and cart into a wood, pulled a handful of hair out of the horse's tail,
and ran up a little hill, where he tied the hair fast to a birch-tree. Then he lay down under
the tree and began to look and stare at the sky.

"Well, well," said he, as if talking to himself, when Peter the third came near. "Well! never
before have I seen anything to match it."

Peter stood still for a time and looked at him, and wondered what was come to him. At last
he said--

"Why do you lie there and stare so?"

"I never saw anything like it," said the other. "A man has gone up to heaven on a black horse.
Here in the birch-tree is some of the horse's tail hanging, and there in the sky you may see
the black horse."

Peter stared first at the man and then at the sky, and said--

"For my part, I see nothing but some hair out of a horse's tail in the birch-tree."

"Yes," said the other, "you cannot see it where you stand, but come here and lie down, and
look up, and take care not to take your eyes off the sky."

Peter the third lay down and stared up at the sky till the tears ran from his eyes. The man
from Ringerige took his horse, mounted it, and galloped away with it and the horse and cart.
When he heard the noise on the road, Peter the third sprang up, but when he found the man had
gone off with his horse he was so astonished that he did not think of going after him till
it was too late.

He was very down-faced when he went home to his wife, and when she asked him what he had done
with the horse, he said--

"I gave it to Peter the second, for I didn't think it was right he should sit in a cart and
jolt about from house to house in Himmerige. Now then he can sell the cart, and buy himself
a coach, and drive about."

"Heaven bless you for that," said the woman. "I never thought you were so kind-hearted a man."
The first question he put to his wife was how she had got the seed.

"Well," said she, "I always heard that what a man sowed he reaped, so I sowed the salt the
North-people left here, and if we only have rain I don't doubt but that it will come up nicely."

"You are silly," said the man, "and silly you must remain, but that does not much matter, for
the others are as silly as yourself."

TALES OF THE NISSES.

The Nis is the same being that is called Kobold in Germany, and Brownie in Scotland. He is
in Denmark and Norway also called Nisse god Dreng (Nissè good lad), and in Sweden, Tomtegubbe
(the old man of the house).

He is of the dwarf family, and resembles them in appearance, and, like them, has the command
of money, and the same dislike to noise and tumult.

His usual dress is grey, with a pointed red cap, but on Michaelmas-day he wears a round hat
like those of the peasants.

No farm-house goes on well without there is a Nis in it, and well is it for the maids and the
men when they are in favour with him. They may go to their beds and give themselves no trouble
about their work, and yet in the morning the maids will find the kitchen swept up, and water
brought in; and the men will find the horses in the stable well cleaned and curried, and perhaps
a supply of corn cribbed for them from the neighbours' barns.

There was a Nis in a house in Jutland. He every evening got his groute at the regular time,
and he, in return, used to help both the men and the maids, and looked to the interest of the
master of the house in every respect.

There came one time a mischievous boy to live at service in this house, and his great delight
was, whenever he got an opportunity, to give the Nis all the annoyance in his power.

Late one evening, when everything was quiet in the house, the Nis took his little wooden dish,
and was just going to eat his supper, when he perceived that the boy had put the butter at
the bottom and had concealed it, in hopes that he might eat the groute first, and then find
the butter when all the groute was gone. He accordingly set about thinking how he might repay
the boy in kind. After pondering a little he went up into the loft where a man and the boy
were lying asleep in the same bed. The Nis whisked off the bed clothes, and when he saw the
little boy by the tall man, he said--

"Short and long don't match," and with this word he took the boy by the legs and dragged him
down to the man's feet. He then went up to the head of the bed, and--

"Short and long don't match," said he again, and then he dragged the boy up to the man's head.
Do what he would he could not succeed in making the boy as long as the man, but persisted in
dragging him up and down in the bed, and continued at this work the whole night long till it
was broad daylight.

By this time he was well tired, so he crept up on the window stool, and sat with his legs dangling
down into the yard. The house-dog--for all dogs have a great enmity to the Nis--as soon as
he saw him began to bark at him, which afforded him much amusement, as the dog could not get
up to him. So he put down first one leg and then the other, and teased the dog, saying--

"Look at my little leg. Look at my little leg!"

In the meantime the boy had awoke, and had stolen up behind him, and, while the Nis was least
thinking of it, and was going on with his, "Look at my little leg," the boy tumbled him down
into the yard to the dog, crying out at the same time--

"Look at the whole of him now!"

       *       *       *       *       *

There lived a man in Thyrsting, in Jutland, who had a Nis in his barn. This Nis used to attend
to his cattle, and at night he would steal fodder for them from the neighbours, so that this
farmer had the best fed and most thriving cattle in the country.

One time the boy went along with the Nis to Fugleriis to steal corn.

The Nis took more, and they went away with it, but when they came to the lands of Thyrsting,
the Nis grew tired, and then the boy said to him--

"Here now is rest!" and they both sat down on the side of a little hill.

"If I had known," said the Nis, as they sat. "If I had known that rest was so good, I'd have
carried off all that was in the barn."

It happened, some time after, that the boy and the Nis were no longer friends, and as the Nis
was sitting one day in the granary-window with his legs hanging out into the yard, the boy
ran at him and tumbled him back into the granary. The Nis was revenged on him that very night,
for when the boy was gone to bed he stole down to where he was lying and carried him as he
was into the yard. Then he laid two pieces of wood across the well and put him lying on them,
expecting that when he awoke he would fall, from the fright, into the well and be drowned.
He was, however, disappointed, for the boy came off without injury.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a man who lived in the town of Tirup who had a very handsome white mare. This mare
had for many years belonged to the same family, and there was a Nis attached to her who brought
luck to the place.

This Nis was so fond of the mare that he could hardly endure to let them put her to any kind
of work, and he used to come himself every night and feed her of the best; and as for this
purpose he usually brought a superfluity of corn, both thrashed and in the straw, from the
neighbours' barns, all the rest of the cattle enjoyed the advantage, and they were all kept
in exceedingly good condition.

It happened at last that the farm-house passed into the hands of a new owner, who refused to
put any faith in what they told him about the mare, so the luck speedily left the place, and
went after the mare to a poor neighbour who had bought her. Within five days after his purchase,
the poor farmer began to find his circumstances gradually improving, while the income of the
other, day after day, fell away and diminished at such a rate that he was hard set to make
both ends meet.

If now the man who had got the mare had only known how to be quiet and enjoy the good times
that were come upon him, he and his children and his children's children after him would have
been in flourishing circumstances till this very day. But when he saw the quantity of corn
that came every night to his barn, he could not resist his desire to get a sight of the Nis.
So he concealed himself one evening at nightfall in the stable, and as soon as it was midnight
he saw how the Nis came from his neighbour's barn and brought a sack full of corn with him.
It was now unavoidable that the Nis should get a sight of the man who was watching, so he,
with evident marks of grief, gave the mare her food for the last time, cleaned and dressed
her to the best of his ability, and when he had done, turned round to where the man was lying,
and bid him farewell.

From that day forward the circumstances of both the neighbours were on an equality, for each
now kept his own.

THE DWARFS' BANQUET.

There lived in Norway, not far from the city of Drontheim, a powerful man who was blessed with
all the goods of fortune. A part of the surrounding country was his property, numerous herds
fed on his pastures, and a great retinue and a crowd of servants adorned his mansion. Make
your choice by that time, or prepare to accept him whom I shall fix on."

Aslog loved a youth named Orm, handsome as he was brave and noble. Aslog's partiality for him
was kept a secret, for her father's pride of power and wealth was such that he would never
have given his consent to a union with so humble a man. In the hope of meeting human beings
and assistance, the wanderers approached it. They listened if they could hear any noise, but
the most perfect silence reigned there. She had on her a handsome blue dress. She threw both
her arms about the stone image, which immediately began to receive life and motion. As soon
as the first sign of motion showed itself the little ones began, with wonderful capers and
grimaces, a song, or, to speak more properly, a howl, with which the whole island resounded
and seemed to tremble.

"Ever since my happiness has been annihilated, and lonely and melancholy have I passed my life.
Seldom does a giant do that. I loved my husband too well not to bring him back cheerfully to
life, every time that I could do it, even at the highest price, and never would I reckon how
often I had done it that I might not know when the time came when I myself should share his
fate, and, at the moment I threw my arms around him, become the same as he. The value of the
things was so great that he was able to purchase everything a wealthy man desires.

THE ICELANDIC SORCERESSES.

"Tell me," said Katla, a handsome and lively widow, to Gunlaugar, an accomplished and gallant
young warrior, "tell me why thou goest so oft to Mahfahlida? Is it to caress an old woman?"

"Thine own age, Katla," answered the youth inconsiderately, "might prevent thy making that
of Geirrida a subject of reproach."

"I little deemed," replied the offended matron, "that we were on an equality in that particular--but
thou, who supposest that Geirrida is the sole source of knowledge, mayst find that there are
others who equal her in science."

It happened in the course of the following winter that Gunlaugar, in company with Oddo, the
son of Katla, had renewed one of those visits to Geirrida with which Katla had upbraided him.

"Thou shalt not depart to-night," said the sage matron; "evil spirits are abroad, and thy bad
destiny predominates."

"We are two in company," answered Gunlaugar, "and have therefore nothing to fear."

"Oddo," replied Geirrida, "will be of no aid to thee; but go, since thou wilt go, and pay the
penalty of thy own rashness."

In their way they visited the rival matron, and Gunlaugar was invited to remain in her house
that night. This he declined, and, passing forward alone, was next morning found lying before
the gate of his father Thorbiorn, severely wounded and deprived of his judgment. Various causes
were assigned for this disaster; but Oddo, asserting that they had parted in anger that evening
from Geirrida, insisted that his companion must have sustained the injury through her sorcery.
Geirrida was accordingly cited to the popular assembly and accused of witchcraft. But twelve
witnesses, or compurgators, having asserted upon their oath the innocence of the accused party,
Geirrida was honourably freed from the accusation brought against her. Her acquittal did not
terminate the rivalry between the two sorceresses, for, Geirrida belonging to the family of
Kiliakan, and Katla to that of the pontiff Snorro, the animosity which still subsisted between
these septs became awakened by the quarrel.

It chanced that Thorbiorn, called Digri (or the corpulent), one of the family of Snorro, had
some horses which fed in the mountain pastures, near to those of Thorarin, called the Black,
the son of the enchantress Geirrida. But when autumn arrived, and the horses were to be withdrawn
from the mountains and housed for the winter, those of Thorbiorn could nowhere be found, and
Oddo, the son of Katla, being sent to consult a wizard, brought back a dubious answer, which
seemed to indicate that they had been stolen by Thorarin. Thorbiorn, with Oddo and a party
of armed followers, immediately set forth for Mahfahlida, the dwelling of Geirrida and her
son Thorarin. Arrived before the gate, they demanded permission to search for the horses which
were missing. This Thorarin refused, alleging that neither was the search demanded duly authorised
by law, nor were the proper witnesses cited to be present, nor did Thorbiorn offer any sufficient
pledge of security when claiming the exercise of so hazardous a privilege. Thorbiorn replied,
that as Thorarin declined to permit a search, he must be held as admitting his guilt; and constituting
for that purpose a temporary court of justice, by choosing out six judges, he formally accused
Thorarin of theft before the gate of his own house. At this the patience of Geirrida forsook her.

"Well," said she to her son Thorarin, "is it said of thee that thou art more a woman than a
man, or thou wouldst not bear these intolerable affronts."

Thorarin, fired at the reproach, rushed forth with his servants and guests; a skirmish soon
disturbed the legal process which had been instituted, and one or two of both parties were
wounded and slain before the wife of Thorarin and the female attendants could separate the
fray by flinging their mantles over the weapons of the combatants.

Thorbiorn and his party retreating, Thorarin proceeded to examine the field of battle. Alas!
among the reliques of the fight was a bloody hand too slight and fair to belong to any of the
combatants. It was that of his wife Ada, who had met this misfortune in her attempts to separate
the foes. Incensed to the uttermost, Thorarin threw aside his constitutional moderation, and,
mounting on horseback, with his allies and followers, pursued the hostile party, and overtook
them in a hay-field, where they had halted to repose their horses, and to exult over the damage
they had done to Thorarin. At this moment he assailed them with such fury that he slew Thorbiorn
upon the spot, and killed several of his attendants, although Oddo, the son of Katla, escaped
free from wounds, having been dressed by his mother in an invulnerable garment. After this
action, more blood being shed than usual in an Icelandic engagement, Thorarin returned to Mahfahlida,
and, being questioned by his mother concerning the events of the skirmish, he answered in the
improvisatory and enigmatical poetry of his age and country--

   "From me the foul reproach be far,
    With which a female waked the war,
    From me, who shunned not in the fray
    Through foemen fierce to hew my way
    (Since meet it is the eagle's brood
    On the fresh corpse should find their food);
    Then spared I not, in fighting field,
    With stalwart hand my sword to wield;
    And well may claim at Odin's shrine
    The praise that waits this deed of mine."

To which effusion Geirrida answered--

"Do these verses imply the death of Thorbiorn?"

And Thorarin, alluding to the legal process which Thorbiorn had instituted against him, resumed
his song--

   "Sharp bit the sword beneath the hood
    Of him whose zeal the cause pursued,
    And ruddy flowed the stream of death,
    Ere the grim brand resumed the sheath;
    Now on the buckler of the slain
    The raven sits, his draught to drain,
    For gore-drenched is his visage bold,
    That hither came his courts to hold."

As the consequence of this slaughter was likely to be a prosecution at the instance of the
pontiff Snorro, Thorarin had now recourse to his allies and kindred, of whom the most powerful
were Arnkill, his maternal uncle, and Verimond, who readily premised their aid both in the
field and in the Comitia, or popular meeting, in spring, before which it was to be presumed
Snorro would indict Thorarin for the slaughter of his kinsman. Arnkill could not, however,
forbear asking his nephew how he had so far lost his usual command of temper. He replied in verse--

   "Till then, the master of my mood,
    Men called me gentle, mild, and good;
    But yon fierce dame's sharp tongue might wake
    In wintry den the frozen snake."

While Thorarin spent the winter with his uncle Arnkill, he received information from his mother
Geirrida that Oddo, son of her old rival Katla, was the person who had cut off the hand of
his wife Ada, and that he gloried in the fact. Thorarin and Arnkill determined on instant vengeance,
and, travelling rapidly, surprised the house of Katla. The undismayed sorceress, on hearing
them approach, commanded her son to sit close beside her, and when the assailants entered they
only beheld Katla, spinning coarse yarn from what seemed a large distaff, with her female domestics
seated around her.

"My son," she said, "is absent on a journey;" and Thorarin and Arnkill, having searched the
house in vain, were obliged to depart with this answer. They had not, however, gone far before
the well-known skill of Katla, in optical delusion occurred to them, and they resolved on a
second and stricter search. Upon their return they found Katla in the outer apartment, who
seemed to be shearing the hair of a tame kid, but was in reality cutting the locks of her son
Oddo. Entering the inner room, they found the large distaff flung carelessly upon a bench.
They returned yet a third time, and a third delusion was prepared for them; for Katla had given
her son the appearance of a hog, which seemed to grovel upon the heap of ashes. Arnkill now
seized and split the distaff, which he had at first suspected, upon which Kalta tauntingly
observed, that if their visits had been frequent that evening, they could not be said to be
altogether ineffectual, since they had destroyed a distaff. They were accordingly returning
completely baffled, when Geirrida met them, and upbraided them with carelessness in searching
for their enemy.

"Return yet again," she said, "and I will accompany you."

Katla's maidens, still upon the watch, announced to her the return of the hostile party, their
number augmented by one who wore a blue mantle.

"Alas!" cried Katla, "it is the sorceress Geirrida, against whom spells will be of no avail."

Immediately rising from the raised and boarded seat which she occupied, she concealed Oddo
beneath it, and covered it with cushions as before, on which she stretched herself complaining
of indisposition. Upon the entrance of the hostile party, Geirrida, without speaking a word,
flung aside her mantle, took out a piece of sealskin, in which she wrapped up Katla's head,
and commanded that she should be held by some of the attendants, while the others broke open
the boarded space, beneath which Oddo lay concealed, seized upon him, bound him, and led him
away captive with his mother. Next morning Oddo was hanged, and Katla stoned to death; but
not until she had confessed that, through her sorcery, she had occasioned the disaster of Gunlaugar,
which first led the way to these feuds.

THE THREE DOGS.

Once upon a time there was a king who travelled to a strange country, where he married a queen.
When they had been married some time the queen had a daughter, which gave rise to much joy
through the whole land, for all people liked the king, he was so kind and just. As the child
was born there came an old woman into the room. She was of a strange appearance, and nobody
could guess where she came from, or to what place she was going. This old woman declared that
the royal child must not be taken out under the sky until it was fifteen years old. If she
was she would be in danger of being carried away by the giants of the mountains.

The king, when he was told what the woman had said, heeded her words, and set a guard to see
that the princess did not come out into the open air.

In a short time the queen bore another daughter, and there was again much joy in the land.
The old woman once more made her appearance, and she said that the king must not let the young
princess go out under the sky before she was fifteen.

The queen had a third daughter, and the third time the old woman came, warning the king respecting
this child as she had done regarding the two former. The king was much distressed, for he loved
his children more than anything else in the world. So he gave strict orders that the three
princesses should be always kept indoors, and he commanded that every one should respect his edict.

