Tuesday, February 17th.--The Acting Colonial Secretary bubbled over with delight as he described
the success of the operations against the Somaliland dervishes. The principal credit was due
to the Royal Air Force, but the native levies had also done their part effectively. The only
fly in Colonel AMERY'S ointment was the escape of that evasive gentleman, the MULLAH, to whom
he was careful on this occasion not to apply the epithet "Mad." As, however, the MULLAH has
lost all his forces, all his stock and all his belongings, it is hoped that it will be at any
rate some time before he pops up again.

The Coal Mines Bill was wisely entrusted to Mr. BRIDGEMAN. Lord SPENCER once delighted the
House of Commons by announcing that he was "not an agricultural labourer"; and Mr. BRIDGEMAN
similarly put it in a good temper by admitting that he had never himself worked in a mine.
But he showed quite a sufficient acquaintance with his subject, and succeeded in dispelling
some of the fog that enshrouds the figures of coal-finance. The miners, of course, objected
to the Bill on the ground that it was not nationalisation, but were left in a very small minority.

A Private Members' debate on the Housing Problem occupied the evening. There was much friendly
criticism of the MINISTER OF HEALTH, for whom Major LLOYD GREAME suggested a motto from the
Koran:--

      "This life is but a bridge;
  Let no man build his house upon it."

But the lapse of time is gradually bringing performance nearer to promise, and Dr. ADDISON
was able to announce that over one hundred thousand houses were now "in the tender stage."
Let us hope no bitter blast will nip them in the bud.

Wednesday, February 18th.--The Lords returned to work after their week's holiday in a rather
gloomy mood. By some occult process of reasoning Lord PARMOOR has convinced himself that the
distress in Central Europe is largely the fault of the Peace Conference. He was supported by
Lord BRYCE, who declared that the "Big Four" approached the business of Treaty-making in a
German rather than an English spirit (which sounds as if he thought they never meant to keep
it), and by Lord HALDANE, who, more suo, accused the negotiators of having shown "no adequate
prevision." Lord CRAWFORD dealt pretty faithfully with the cavillers and pointed out that this
country had already spent twelve millions on relieving European distress, and was prepared
to spend nearly as much again when the United States was ready to co-operate; but at present,
he reminded them, that country was still in a state of war with Germany.

The one bright spot of the sitting was Lord HYLTON'S statement that the National Debt, which
was within a fraction of eight thousand millions on December 31st, had since been reduced by
eighty-five millions. The pace is too good to last, but it is something to have made a start.

For nearly four years we have been anxiously waiting to know what really did happen at the
battle of Jutland. The voluminous efforts of Admirals and journalists have failed to clear
up the mystery, and even Commander CARLYON BELLAIRS has not satisfied everybody so completely
as himself that his recent work reveals the truth. But now the official history is on the eve
of publication and Mr. LONG no longer feels it necessary to keep the secret. Here it is in
his own words: "The moral of the German fleet was very seriously shaken." What a relief!

It seems that the Turks were informed in advance of the intention of the Peace Conference to
let them stay at Constantinople in the hope that they would forthwith abandon their sanguinary
habits. Instead of which they appear to have said to themselves, "What a jolly day! Let us
go out and kill something--Armenians for choice." So now a further message has been sent to
them to the effect that the new title to the old tenement is not absolute but conditional,
and that one of the covenants forbids its use as a slaughterhouse.

A modest little Bill empowering the Mint to manufacture coins worth something less than their
weight in silver aroused the wrath of Professor OMAN. The last time, according to his account,
that the coinage was thus debased was in the days of HENRY VIII., whose views both on money
and matrimony were notoriously lax. Other Members were friendly to the project, and Mr. DENNIS
HERBERT, in the avowed interest of churchwardens, urged the Government to seize the opportunity
to abolish the threepeeny-bit, the irreducible minimum of "respectable" almsgiving. The CHANCELLOR
OF THE EXCHEQUER, however, stoutly championed the elusive little coin, for which he declared
there was "an immense demand."

On Captain HAMBRO'S motion deploring the action of certain trade-unions in refusing to admit
ex-Service men to their ranks the Labour Party heard some very straight talking. The whips
of Lady BONHAM-CARTER at Paisley were nothing to the scorpions of ex-Private HOPKINSON, who
has actually been fined at the instance of the trade-unions because he insisted upon employing
some of his old comrades-in-arms.

Mr. SEXTON'S rather maladroit attempt to shift the blame on to the employers only deepened
the impression that trade-unionism is developing into a system of caste, in which certain occupations
are reserved for certain people. Only an elect bricklayer, for example, may lay bricks-- though
anybody can heave them--and the mere fact that a man has shouldered a rifle in the service
of his country in no way entitles him to carry a hod.

Thursday, February 19th.--The impending advent of a Home Rule Bill is greatly perturbing the
little remnant of Irish Nationalist Members, threatened with the extinction of their pet grievance.
Although but seven in number they made almost noise enough for seventy. Question-time was punctuated
with their plaints. The CHIEF SECRETARY did his best to soothe them, but his remark that "no
man in Ireland need be in prison if he will obey the law" poured oil on the flames.

Despite the reduction of the Question-ration from eight to four per Member, the House collectively
grows "curiouser and curiouser." This is partly due to the popularity of PREMIER-baiting, now
to be enjoyed on Mondays and Thursdays. In future, Members are to be further restricted to
three Questions per diem; but no substantial relief is to be hoped for until the House sets
up its own censorship, with power to expunge all Questions that are trivial, personal or put
for purposes of self-advertisement. Not many--a dozen or two daily, perhaps--would survive
the scrutiny.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW ISLE OF THE BLEST.

    (The "Cubanisation" of Ireland, suggested by Mr. DE VALERA, is being
    seriously discussed in Sinn Fein circles.)

  When Ireland is treated like Cuba,
    As great DE VALERA suggests,
  And the pestilent loyalist Pooh-Bah
    No longer our island infests,
  The Pearl that adorns the Antilles
    We'll speedily duplicate here,
  From the Lough in the North, that is Swilly's,
        Right down to Cape Clear.

  The militant minstrels of Tara
    Will change their war-harps for guitars;
  And Clare, to be called Santa Clara,
    Will grow the most splendid cigars;
  On the banks of the Bann the banana
     Will yield us its succulent fruit,
  And the pig with the gentle iguana
        Together will root.

  Our poets, both major and minor,
    Will work the new Manganese vein,
  And turn out a product diviner
    Than even the Cubans obtain;
  Limerigo, Galvejo, Doblino--
    How lovely and noble they sound!
  And think of Don José Devlino
        Cavorting around!

  We'll borrow a leaf from Havana;
    We'll cultivate yuccas and yams;
  The Curragh shall be our savannah,
    Swept clear of all soldiers and shams;
  And then to the cry of "Majuba"
    We'll shatter the enemy's yoke,
  When Ireland is governed like Cuba
        And grows her own smoke.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEAD SEA FRUIT.

To-day the telephone has been installed. The members of our staff are going about their duties
in a dazed fashion, and I, to whose single-handed tenacity the achievement is due, find myself
unable in these first full moments of triumph to concentrate on my every-day affairs.

I can still remember that fresh summer morning when with springy step I set out to call upon
the District Contract Agent for the first time. Innocently enough I expected to arrange for
the installation of a telephone within the next two or three days. But I recollect that as
I ascended the steps of his premises I became depressed by that House of Usher foreboding,
and then, when I witnessed the way in which an imperturbable official discomfited a tempestuous
gentleman who was giving tongue to a long list of his wrongs, my carefully rehearsed and resolute
address shrivelled on my lips and I found myself asking tamely for a form.

This form, plus the information that telephones were more speedily installed where ex-Service
men were employed, was the net result of my first encounter.

And now, as I turn in reminiscent mood to a dusty file, I pause before one of my early letters
to the District Contract Agent: "... If you saw our staff, who are without exception ex-soldiers,
you would say at once that they are a remarkably fine body of men and deserving of a telephone.
They mark their possessions with their initials in indelible pencil. Between them they have
seen service on every front, from Mespot to Ireland. Some have been mentioned in despatches,
many have figured in Cox's Book of Martyrs, and our cashier says that he once opened a tin
of bully with the key provided for that purpose. One of our juniors, Major Bays Waller, O.B.E.,
who came to us from a Control Office and who advises us on our filing, says that it is like
coming from a home to a home. You must come round and have a chat with him; you would have
so much in common.

"Trusting that you will expedite the little matter of our telephone installation, and assuring
you that the spirit of our staff continues to be excellent, etc...."

Although this letter was signed "Henry Thomas, James & Sons," the District Contract Agent's
vague reply on the file before me commences: "Sir (or Madam);" and I feel now, as I did then,
that it is not in the best of taste for him to brag as he does about his telephone and his
"Private Branch Exchange" on the very paper on which he writes to baffled applicants for installation.

From this time the correspondence is marked by an increasing bitterness on my side and a level
colourlessness on his. Only once did he assume the offensive, which took the shape of a demand
for four pounds for possible services to be rendered at some period in the future. At Yuletide
I hoped that "during this season of goodwill he would see his way to give instructions for
the installation of our telephone," and in the New Year I played once more the ex-Service employees'
card:--"... Whatever views you may hold on the policy of the withdrawal of British troops from
Russia, we are convinced that you will sympathise with our desire to extend a hearty welcome
to a member of our staff on his return to this office from Murmansk; and we feel that, since
he served with the R.E. Signals, it would be a graceful compliment to him if we had the telephone
installed. We therefore cordially invite your co-operation so that this may take place before
his arrival.... The idea of installing a telephone in this office is not in itself a novel
one, as you may recollect that the suggestion has cropped up in the correspondence that has
passed between us...."

       *       *       *       *       *

And now, as I have said, the telephone is installed. The instrument is fashioned in a severe
style (receiver and mouth-piece mounted on an ebonite column of the Roman Doric Order), and
it stands for all to see as a symbol that in the seclusion of our offices we are in touch with
the world at large. But as a symbol only it must remain, for the voices of the outer world
that call us up as they search for other friends or obstruct us when we in turn are, as it
were, groping after ours, have already frayed the temper of our staff. It was inevitable that
under such constant irritation these ex-Service men of ours would one day burst into strong
military idiom, so we have disconnected our telephone in order to avoid the calamity of losing
our lady-typist.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Man Wanted to lift 1,200 square yards of Turf at once--Provincial
    Paper.

Before applying for the job our young friend Foozle would like to know whether he will be required
to replace the divot.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"JUST LIKE JUDY."

If the author of Just Like Judy will look into that commodious classic, Mrs. Beeton's Cookery
Book, he will find a formula for light pastry. And if he will proceed to the (for him) enlivening
adventure of essaying a tartlet, he will find that most fatal among a host of fatal errors
will be any failure to preserve the due proportion of ingredients. I do not suggest that there
is as rigid a formula for light comedy. But certainly Mr. DENNY threw in too many unnecessary
mystifications and crude explanations in proportion to the wit, wisdom and lively incident
of his confection. In particular he was constantly making some of his characters tell the others
what we of the audience either already knew or quite easily guessed. To exhaust my tedious-homely
metaphor, if you put in a double measure of water the mixture will refuse to rise. And that
I imagine is essentially what happened to Just Like Judy.

Irish Judy, a charmingly pretty busybody, outwardly just like Miss IRIS HOEY, comes to Peter
Keppel's studio and hears that this casual youth has got into a deplorable habit of putting
off his marriage with her friend Milly. She (Judy) will see to that! She assumes the rôle of
a notorious Chelsea model, whom proper Peter has never seen. Peter knocks his head on the mantelpiece,
just where a shrapnel splinter had hit him, and is persuaded that she, Judy McCarthy, affecting
to be Trixie O'Farrel, is his wife. It all seems very horrible to him, but, shell-shock or
no shell-shock, he sets to work to paint her portrait in a business-like way, and at the end
of four hours it doesn't seem at all horrible. And by the time it is explained that it was
all a joke (some people do have such a nice sense of humour) he is all for rushing off to the
registry-office, Judy agreeing.

Not that Judy is a minx. She did her level best to make two people who obviously didn't love
one another fulfil their engagement, instead of, like a sensible woman, accepting the inevitable,
which was, as it happens, so congenial to her. What puzzled me was Peter's indignation with
poor Milly when he found that she really didn't love him (but, on the contrary, a bounder called
Crauford), yet couldn't bear to cause him unhappiness, and was sacrificing herself for him.
As that was his attitude precisely, I suppose he felt annoyed by this lack of originality.
If we men are like that, it wasn't nice of Mr. DENNY to give us away.

At any rate I am sure Mr. DONALD CALTHROP didn't believe in Peter all the time. When he did
he was very good indeed. When he didn't he was horrid. Did Miss IRIS HOEY believe in Judy?
I am not so sure. I suspect not. Did I believe in either? I did not.

