"In another journey through the south parts of Scotland, about a mile and a half from Melrose,
in the shire of Teviotdale, I saw the remains of a curious bridge over the river Tweed, consisting
of three octangular pillars, or rather towers, standing within the water, without any arches
to join them. The middle one, which is the most entire, has a door towards the north, and I
suppose another opposite one toward the south, which I could not see without crossing the water.
In the middle of this tower is a projection or cornice surrounding it: the whole is hollow
from the door upwards, and now open at the top, near which is a small window. I was informed
that not long agro a countryman and his family lived in this tower--and got his livelihood
by laying out planks from pillar to pillar, and conveying passengers over the river. Whether
this be ancient or modern, I know not; but as it is singular in its kind I have thought fit
to exhibit it."

The vestiges of this uncommon species of bridge still exist, and the author has often seen
the foundations of the columns when drifting down the Tweed at night for the purpose of killing
salmon by torch-light. Mr. John Mercer of Bridge-end recollects, that about fifty years ago
the pillars were visible above water; and the late Mr. David Kyle, of the George Inn, Melrose,
told the author that he saw a stone taken from the river bearing this inscription:--

"I, Sir John Pringle of Palmer stede, Give an hundred markis of gowd sae reid, To help to bigg
my brigg ower Tweed."

Pringle of Galashiels, afterwards of Whytbank, was the Baron to whom the bridge belonged.]

But it was most frequently with the Monks of Saint Mary's that the warder had to dispute his
perquisites. These holy men insisted for, and at length obtained, a right of gratuitous passage
to themselves, greatly to the discontent of the bridge-keeper. But when they demanded the same
immunity for the numerous pilgrims who visited the shrine, the bridge-keeper waxed restive,
and was supported by his lord in his resistance. The controversy grew animated on both sides;
the Abbot menaced excommunication, and the keeper of the bridge, though unable to retaliate
in kind, yet made each individual monk who had to cross and recross the river, endure a sort
of purgatory, ere he would accommodate them with a passage. This was a great inconvenience,
and would have proved a more serious one, but that the river was fordable for man and horse
in ordinary weather.

It was a fine moonlight night, as we have already said, when Father Philip approached this
bridge, the singular construction of which gives a curious idea of the insecurity of the times.
The river was not in flood, but it was above its ordinary level--a heavy water, as it is called
in that country, through which the monk had no particular inclination to ride, if he could
manage the matter better.

"Peter, my good friend," cried the Sacristan, raising his voice; "my very excellent friend,
Peter, be so kind as to lower the drawbridge. Peter, I say, dost thou not hear?--it is thy
gossip, Father Philip, who calls thee."

Peter heard him perfectly well, and saw him into the bargain; but as he had considered the
Sacristan as peculiarly his enemy in his dispute with the convent, he went quietly to bed,
after reconnoitring the monk through his loop-hole, observing to his wife, that "riding the
water in a moonlight night would do the Sacristan no harm, and would teach him the value of
a brig the neist time, on whilk a man might pass high and dry, winter and summer, flood and ebb."

After exhausting his voice in entreaties and threats, which were equally unattended to by Peter
of the Brig, as he was called, Father Philip at length moved down the river to take the ordinary
ford at the head of the next stream. Cursing the rustic obstinacy of Peter, he began, nevertheless,
to persuade himself that the passage of the river by the ford was not only safe, but pleasant.
The banks and scattered trees were so beautifully reflected from the bosom of the dark stream,
the whole cool and delicious picture formed so pleasing a contrast to his late agitation, to
the warmth occasioned by his vain endeavours to move the relentless porter of the bridge, that
the result was rather agreeable than otherwise.

As Father Philip came close to the water's edge, at the spot where he was to enter it, there
sat a female under a large broken scathed oak-tree, or rather under the remains of such a tree,
weeping, wringing her hands, and looking earnestly on the current of the river. The monk was
struck with astonishment to see a female there at that time of night. But he was, in all honest
service,--and if a step farther, I put it upon his own conscience,--a devoted squire of dames.
After observing the maiden for a moment, although she seemed to take no notice of his presence,
he was moved by her distress, and willing to offer his assistance. "Damsel," said he, "thou
seemest in no ordinary distress; peradventure, like myself, thou hast been refused passage
at the bridge by the churlish keeper, and thy crossing may concern thee either for performance
of a vow, or some other weighty charge."

The maiden uttered some inarticulate sounds, looked at the river, and then in the face of the
Sacristan. It struck Father Philip at that instant, that a Highland chief of distinction had
been for some time expected to pay his vows at the shrine of Saint Mary's; and that possibly
this fair maiden might be one of his family, travelling alone for accomplishment of a vow,
or left behind by some accident, to whom, therefore, it would be but right and prudent to use
every civility in his power, especially as she seemed unacquainted with the Lowland tongue.
Such at least was the only motive the Sacristan was ever known to assign for his courtesy;
if there was any other, I once more refer it to his own conscience.

To express himself by signs, the common language of all nations, the cautious Sacristan first
pointed to the river, then to his mule's crupper, and then made, as gracefully as he could,
a sign to induce the fair solitary to mount behind him. She seemed to understand his meaning,
for she rose up as if to accept his offer; and while the good monk, who, as we have hinted,
was no great cavalier, laboured, with the pressure of the right leg and the use of the left
rein, to place his mule with her side to the bank in such a position that the lady might mount
with ease, she rose from the ground with rather portentous activity, and at one bound sate
behind the monk upon the animal, much the firmer rider of the two. The mule by no means seemed
to approve of this double burden; she bounded, bolted, and would soon have thrown Father Philip
over her head, had not the maiden with a firm hand detained him in the saddle.

At last the restive brute changed her humour; and, from refusing to budge off the spot, suddenly
stretched her nose homeward, and dashed into the ford as fast as she could scamper. A new terror
now invaded the monk's mind--the ford seemed unusually deep, the water eddied off in strong
ripple from the counter of the mule, and began to rise upon her side. Philip lost his presence
of mind,--which was at no time his most ready attribute, the mule yielded to the weight of
the current, and as the rider was not attentive to keep her head turned up the river, she drifted
downward, lost the ford and her footing at once, and began to swim with her head down the stream.
And what was sufficiently strange, at the same moment, notwithstanding the extreme peril, the
damsel began to sing, thereby increasing, if anything could increase, the bodily fear of the
worthy Sacristan.

               I.

  Merrily swim we, the moon shines bright,
  Both current and ripple are dancing in light.
  We have roused the night raven, I heard him croak,
  As we plashed along beneath the oak
  That flings its broad branches so far and so wide,
  Their shadows are dancing in midst of the tide.
  "Who wakens my nestlings," the raven he said,
  "My beak shall ere morn in his blood be red.
  For a blue swoln corpse is a dainty meal.
  And I'll have my share with the pike and the eel."

               II.

  Merrily swim we, the moon shines bright,
  There's a golden gleam on the distant height;
  There's a silver shower on the alders dank.
  And the drooping willows that wave on the bank.
  I see the abbey, both turret and tower,
  It is all astir for the vesper hour;
  The monks for the chapel are leaving each cell.
  But Where's Father Philip, should toll the bell?

               III.

  Merrily swim we, the moon shines bright,
  Downward we drift through shadow and light,
  Under yon rock the eddies sleep,
  Calm and silent, dark and deep.
  The Kelpy has risen from the fathomless pool.
  He has lighted his candle of death and of dool.
  Look, Father, look, and you'll laugh to see
  How he gapes and glares with his eyes on thee.

               IV.

  Good luck to your fishing, whom watch ye to-night?
  A man of mean, or a man of might?
  Is it layman or priest that must float in your cove,
  Or lover who crosses to visit his love?
  Hark! heard ye the Kelpy reply, as we pass'd,--
  "God's blessing on the warder, he lock'd the bridge fast!
  All that come to my cove are sunk,
  Priest or layman, lover or monk."

How long the damsel might have continued to sing, or where the terrified monk's journey might
have ended, is uncertain. As she sung the last stanza, they arrived at, or rather in, a broad
tranquil sheet of water, caused by a strong wear or damhead, running across the river, which
dashed in a broad cataract over the barrier. The mule, whether from choice, or influenced by
the suction of the current, made towards the cut intended to supply the convent mills, and
entered it half swimming half wading, and pitching the unlucky monk to and fro in the saddle
at a fearful rate.

As his person flew hither and thither, his garment became loose, and in an effort to retain
it, his hand lighted on the volume of the Lady of Avenel which was in his bosom. No sooner
had he grasped it, than his companion pitched him out of the saddle into the stream, where,
still keeping her hand on his collar, she gave him two or three good souses in the watery fluid,
so as to ensure that every other part of him had its share of wetting, and then quitted her
hold when he was so near the side that by a slight effort (of a great one he was incapable)
he might scramble on shore. This accordingly he accomplished, and turning his eyes to see what
had become of his extraordinary companion, she was nowhere to be seen; but still he heard,
as if from the surface of the river, and mixing with the noise of the water breaking over the
damhead, a fragment of her wild song, which seemed to run thus:--

  Landed--landed! the black book hath won.
  Else had you seen Berwick with morning sun!
  Sain ye, and save ye, and blithe mot ye be,
  For seldom they land that go swimming with me.

The ecstasy of the monk's terror could be endured no longer; his head grew dizzy, and, after
staggering a few steps onward and running himself against a wall, he sunk down in a state of
insensibility.

Chapter the Sixth.

  Now let us sit in conclave. That these weeds
  Be rooted from the vineyard of the church.
  That these foul tares be severed from the wheat,
  We are, I trust, agreed.--Yet how to do this,
  Nor hurt the wholesome crop and tender vine-plants,
  Craves good advisement.

THE REFORMATION.

The vesper service in the Monastery Church of Saint Mary's was now over. The Abbot had disrobed
himself of his magnificent vestures of ceremony, and resumed his ordinary habit, which was
a black gown, worn over a white cassock, with a narrow scapulary; a decent and venerable dress,
which was calculated to set off to advantage the portly mien of Abbot Boniface.

In quiet times no one could have filled the state of a mitred Abbot, for such was his dignity,
more respectably than this worthy prelate. He had, no doubt, many of those habits of self-indulgence
which men are apt to acquire who live for themselves alone. He was vain, moreover; and when
boldly confronted, had sometimes shown symptoms of timidity, not very consistent with the high
claims which he preferred as an eminent member of the church, or with the punctual deference
which he exacted from his religious brethren, and all who were placed under his command. But
he was hospitable, charitable, and by no means of himself disposed to proceed with severity
against any one. In short, he would in other times have slumbered out his term of preferment
with as much credit as any other "purple Abbot," who lived easily, but at the same time decorously--slept
soundly, and did not disquiet himself with dreams.

But the wide alarm spread through the whole Church of Rome by the progress of the reformed
doctrines, sorely disturbed the repose of Abbot Boniface, and opened to him a wide field of
duties and cares which he had never so much as dreamed of. There were opinions to be combated
and refuted--practices to be inquired into--heretics to be detected and punished--the fallen
off to be reclaimed--the wavering to be confirmed--scandal to be removed from the clergy, and
the vigour of discipline to be re-established.  Post upon post arrived at the Monastery of
Saint Mary's--horses reeking, and riders exhausted--this from the Privy Council, that from
the Primate of Scotland, and this other again from the Queen Mother, exhorting, approving,
condemning, requesting advice upon this subject, and requiring information upon that.

These missives Abbot Boniface received with an important air of helplessness, or a helpless
air of importance,--whichever the reader may please to term it, evincing at once gratified
vanity, and profound trouble of mind.  The sharp-witted Primate of Saint Andrews had foreseen
the deficiencies of the Abbot of St. Mary's, and endeavoured to provide for them by getting
admitted into his Monastery as Sub-Prior a brother Cistercian, a man of parts and knowledge,
devoted to the service of the Catholic Church, and very capable not only to advise the Abbot
on occasions of difficulty, but to make him sensible of his duty in case he should, from good-nature
or timidity, be disposed to shrink from it.

Father Eustace played the same part in the Monastery as the old general who, in foreign armies,
is placed at the elbow of the Prince of the Blood, who nominally commands in chief, on condition
of attempting nothing without the advice of his dry-nurse; and he shared the fate of all such
dry-nurses, being heartily disliked as well as feared by his principal. Still, however, the
Primate's intention was fully answered. Father Eustace became the constant theme and often
the bugbear of the worthy Abbot, who hardly dared to turn himself in his bed without, considering
what Father Eustace would think of it. In every case of difficulty, Father Eustace was summoned,
and his opinion asked; and no sooner was the embarrassment removed, than the Abbot's next thought
was how to get rid of his adviser. In every letter which he wrote to those in power, he recommended
Father Eustace to some high church preferment, a bishopric or an abbey; and as they dropped
one after another, and were otherwise conferred, he began to think, as he confessed to the
Sacristan in the bitterness of his spirit, that the Monastery of St.  Mary's had got a life-rent
lease of their Sub-Prior.

Yet more indignant he would have been, had he suspected that Father Eustace's ambition was
fixed upon his own mitre, which, from some attacks of an apoplectic nature, deemed by the Abbot's
friends to be more serious than by himself, it was supposed might be shortly vacant. But the
confidence which, like other dignitaries, he reposed in his own health, prevented Abbot Boniface
from imagining that it held any concatenation, with the motions of Father Eustace.

The necessity under which he found himself of consulting with his grand adviser, in cases of
real difficulty, rendered the worthy Abbot particularly desirous of doing without him in all
ordinary cases of administration, though not without considering what Father Eustace would
have said of the matter. He scorned, therefore, to give a hint to the Sub-Prior of the bold
stroke by which he had dispatched Brother Philip to Glendearg; but when the vespers came without
his reappearance he became a little uneasy, the more as other matters weighed upon his mind.
The feud with the warder or keeper of the bridge threatened to be attended with bad consequences,
as the man's quarrel was taken up by the martial baron under whom he served; and pressing letters
of an unpleasant tendency had just arrived from the Primate. Like a gouty man, who catches
hold of his crutch while he curses the infirmity that induces him to use if, the Abbot, however
reluctant, found himself obliged to require Eustace's presence, after the service was over,
in his house, or rather palace, which was attached to, and made part of, the Monastery.

Abbot Boniface was seated in his high-backed chair, the grotesque carved back of which terminated
in a mitre, before a fire where two or three large logs were reduced to one red glowing mass
of charcoal. At his elbow, on an oaken stand, stood the remains of a roasted capon, on which
his reverence had made his evening meal, flanked by a goodly stoup of Bordeaux of excellent
flavour. He was gazing indolently on the fire, partly engaged in meditation on his past and
present fortunes, partly occupied by endeavouring to trace towers and steeples in the red embers.

"Yes," thought the Abbot to himself, "in that red perspective I could fancy to myself the peaceful
towers of Dundrennan, where I passed my life ere I was called to pomp and to trouble. A quiet
brotherhood we were, regular in our domestic duties; and when the frailties of humanity prevailed
over us, we confessed, and were absolved by each other, and the most formidable part of the
penance was the jest of the convent on the culprit. I can almost fancy that I see the cloister
garden, and the pear-trees which I grafted with my own hands. And for what have I changed all
this, but to be overwhelmed with business which concerns me not, to be called My Lord Abbot,
and to be tutored by Father Eustace? I would these towers were the Abbey of Aberbrothwick,
and Father Eustace the Abbot,--or I would he were in the fire on any terms, so I were rid of
him! The Primate says our Holy Father, the Pope hath an adviser--I am sure he could not live
a week with such a one as mine. Then there is no learning what Father Eustace thinks till you
confess your own difficulties--No hint will bring forth his opinion--he is like a miser, who
will not unbuckle his purse to bestow a farthing, until the wretch who needs it has owned his
excess of poverty, and wrung out the boon by importunity. And thus I am dishonoured in the
eyes of my religious brethren, who behold me treated like a child which hath no sense of its
own--I will bear it no longer!--Brother Bennet,"--(a lay brother answered to his call)--" tell
Father Eustace that I need not his presence."

"I came to say to your reverence, that the holy father is entering even now from the cloisters."

"Be it so," said the Abbot, "he is welcome,--remove these things--or rather, place a trencher,
the holy father may be a little hungry--yet, no--remove them, for there is no good fellowship
in him--Let the stoup of wine remain, however, and place another cup."

The lay brother obeyed these contradictory commands in the way he judged most seemly--he removed
the carcass of the half-sacked capon, and placed two goblets beside the stoup of Bourdeaux.
At the same instant entered Father Eustace.

He was a thin, sharp-faced, slight-made little man, whose keen grey eyes seemed almost to look
through the person to whom he addressed himself. His body was emaciated not only with the fasts
which he observed with rigid punctuality, but also by the active and unwearied exercise of
his sharp and piercing intellect;--

  A fiery soul, which working out its way,
  Fretted the puny body to decay,
  And o'er-informed the tenement of clay.

He turned with conventual reverence to the Lord Abbot; and as they stood together, it was scarce
possible to see a more complete difference of form and expression. The good-natured rosy face
and laughing eye of the Abbot, which even his present anxiety could not greatly ruffle, was
a wonderful contrast to the thin pallid cheek and quick penetrating glance of the monk, in
which an eager and keen spirit glanced through eyes to which it seemed to give supernatural lustre.

The Abbot opened the conversation by motioning to his monk to take a stool, and inviting to
a cup of wine. The courtesy was declined with respect, yet not without a remark, that the vesper
service was past.

"For the stomach's sake, brother," said the Abbot, colouring a little--"You know the text."

"It is a dangerous one," answered the monk, "to handle alone, or at late hours. Out off from
human society, the juice of the grape becomes a perilous companion of solitude, and therefore
I ever shun it."

Abbot Boniface had poured himself out a goblet which might hold about half an English pint;
but, either struck with the truth of the observation, or ashamed to act in direct opposition
to it, he suffered it to remain untasted before him, and immediately changed the subject.

"The Primate hath written to us," said he, "to make strict search within our bounds after the
heretical persons denounced in this list, who have withdrawn themselves from the justice which
their opinions deserve. It is deemed probable that they will attempt to retire to England by
our Borders, and the Primate requireth me to watch with vigilance, and what not."

"Assuredly," said the monk, "the magistrate should not bear the sword in vain--those be they
that turn the world upside down--and doubtless your reverend wisdom will with due diligence
second the exertions of the Right Reverend Father in God, being in the peremptory defence of
the Holy Church."

"Ay, but how is this to be done?" answered the Abbot; "Saint Mary aid us! The Primate writes
to me as if I were a temporal baron--a man under command, having soldiers under him! He says,
send forth--scour the country--guard the passes--Truly these men do not travel as those who
would give their lives for nothing--the last who went south passed the dry-march at the Riding-burn
with an escort of thirty spears, as our reverend brother the Abbot of Kelso did write unto
us. How are cowls and scapularies to stop the way?"

"Your bailiff is accounted a good man at arms, holy father," said Eustace; "your vassals are
obliged to rise for the defence of the Holy Kirk--it is the tenure on which they hold their
lands--if they will not come forth for the Church which gives them bread, let their possessions
be given to others."

"We shall not be wanting," said the Abbot, collecting himself with importance, "to do whatever
may advantage Holy Kirk--thyself shall hear the charge to our Bailiff and our officials--but
here again is our controversy with the warden of the bridge and the Baron of Meigallot--Saint
Mary!  vexations do so multiply upon the House, and upon the generation, that a man wots not
where to turn to! Thou didst say, Father Eustace, thou wouldst look into our evidents touching
this free passage for the pilgrims?"

"I have looked into the Chartulary of the House, holy father," said Eustace, "and therein I
find a written and formal grant of all duties and customs payable at the drawbridge of Brigton,
not only by ecclesiastics of this foundation, but by every pilgrim truly designed to accomplish
his vows at this House, to the Abbot Allford, and the monks of the House of Saint Mary in Kennaquhair,
from that time and for ever. The deed is dated on Saint Bridget's Even, in the year of Redemption,
1137, and bears the sign and seal of the granter, Charles of Meigallot, great-great-grandfather
of this baron, and purports to be granted for the safety of his own soul, and for the weal
of the souls of his father and mother, and of all his predecessors and successors, being Barons
of Meigallot."

"But he alleges," said the Abbot, "that the bridge-wards have been in possession of these dues,
and have rendered them available for more than fifty years--and the baron threatens violence--meanwhile,
the journey of the pilgrims is interrupted, to the prejudice of their own souls and the diminution
of the revenues of Saint Mary. The Sacristan advised us to put on a boat; but the warden, whom
thou knowest to be a godless man, has sworn the devil tear him, but that if they put on a boat
on the laird's stream, he will rive her board from board--and then some say we should compound
the claim for a small sum in silver." Here the Abbot paused a moment for a reply, but receiving
none, he added, "But what thinkest thou, Father Eustace? why art thou silent?"

"Because I am surprised at the question which the Lord Abbot of Saint Mary's asks at the youngest
of his brethren."

"Youngest in time of your abode with us, Brother Eustace," said the Abbot, "not youngest in
years, or I think in experience. Sub-Prior also of this convent."

"I am astonished," continued Eustace, "that the Abbot of this venerable house should ask of
any one whether he can alienate the patrimony of our holy and divine patroness, or give up
to an unconscientious, and perhaps, a heretic baron, the rights conferred on this church by
his devout progenitor. Popes and councils alike prohibit it--the honour of the living, and
the weal of departed souls, alike forbid it--it may not be. To force, if he dare use it, we
must surrender; but never by our consent should we see the goods of the church plundered, with
as little scruple as he would drive off a herd of English beeves. Rouse yourself, Reverend
father, and doubt nothing but that the good cause shall prevail. Whet the spiritual sword,
and direct it against the wicked who would usurp our holy rights. Whet the temporal sword,
if it be necessary, and stir up the courage and zeal of your loyal vassals."

The Abbot sighed deeply. "All this," he said, "is soon spoken by him who hath to act it not;
but--" He was interrupted by the entrance of Bennet rather hastily. "The mule on which the
Sacristan had set out in the morning had returned," he said, "to the convent stable all over
wet, and with the saddle turned round beneath her belly."

"Sancta Maria!" said the Abbot, "our dear brother hath perished by the way!"

"It may not be," said Eustace, hastily--"let the bell be tolled--cause the brethren to get
torches--alarm the village--hurry down to the river--I myself will be the foremost."

The real Abbot stood astonished and agape, when at once he beheld his office filled, and saw
all which he ought to have ordered, going forward at the dictates of the youngest monk in the
convent. But ere the orders of Eustace, which nobody dreamed of disputing, were carried into
execution, the necessity was prevented by the sudden apparition of the Sacristan, whose supposed
danger excited all the alarm.

Chapter the Seventh.

     Raze out the written troubles of the brain,
     Cleanse the foul bosom of the perilous stuff
     That weighs upon the heart.
                                         MACBETH.

What betwixt cold and fright the afflicted Sacristan stood before his Superior, propped on
the friendly arm of the convent miller, drenched with water, and scarce able to utter a syllable.

After various attempts to speak, the first words he uttered were,

  "Swim we merrily--the moon shines bright."

"Swim we merrily!" retorted the Abbot, indignantly; "a merry night have ye chosen for swimming,
and a becoming salutation to your Superior!"

"Our brother is bewildered," said Eustace;--"speak, Father Philip, how is it with you?"

  "Good luck to your fishing,"

continued the Sacristan, making a most dolorous attempt at the tune of his strange companion.

"Good luck to your fishing!" repeated the Abbot, still more surprised than displeased; "by
my halidome he is drunken with wine, and comes to our presence with his jolly catches in his
throat! If bread and water can cure this folly--"

"With your pardon, venerable father," said the Sub-Prior, "of water our brother has had enough;
and methinks, the confusion of his eye, is rather that of terror, than of aught unbecoming
his profession. Where did you find him, Hob Miller?"

"An it please your reverence, I did but go to shut the sluice of the mill--and as I was going
to shut the sluice, I heard something groan near to me; but judging it was one of Giles Fletcher's
hogs--for so please you he never shuts his gate--I caught up my lever, and was about--Saint
Mary forgive me!--to strike where I heard the sound, when, as the saints would have it, I heard
the second groan just like that of a living man. So I called up my knaves, and found the Father
Sacristan lying wet and senseless under the wall of our kiln. So soon as we brought him to
himself a bit, he prayed to be brought to your reverence, but I doubt me his wits have gone
a bell-wavering by the road. It was but now that he spoke in somewhat better form."

"Well!" said Brother Eustace, "thou hast done well, Hob Miller; only begone now, and remember
a second time to pause, ere you strike in the dark."

"Please your reverence, it shall be a lesson to me," said the miller, "not to mistake a holy
man for a hog again, so long as I live." And, making a bow, with profound humility, the miller
withdrew.

"And now that this churl is gone, Father Philip," said Eustace, "wilt thou tell our venerable
Superior what ails thee? art thou vino gravatus, man? if so we will have thee to thy cell."

"Water! water! not wine," muttered the exhausted Sacristan.

"Nay," said the monk, "if that be thy complaint, wine may perhaps cure thee;" and he reached
him a cup, which the patient drank off to his great benefit.

"And now," said the Abbot, "let his garments be changed, or rather let him be carried to the
infirmary; for it will prejudice our health, should we hear his narrative while he stands there,
steaming like a rising hoar-frost."

"I will hear his adventure," said Eustace, "and report it to your reverence." And, accordingly,
he attended the Sacristan to his cell. In about half an hour he returned to the Abbot.

"How is it with Father Philip?" said the Abbot; "and through what came he into such a state?"

"He comes from Glendearg, reverend sir," said Eustace; "and for the rest, he telleth such a
legend, as has not been heard in this Monastery for many a long day." He then gave the Abbot
the outlines of the Sacristan's adventures in the homeward journey, and added, that for some
time he was inclined to think his brain was infirm, seeing he had sung, laughed, and wept all
in the same breath.

"A wonderful thing it is to us," said the Abbot, "that Satan has been permitted to put forth
his hand thus far on one of our sacred brethren!"

"True," said Father Eustace; "but for every text there is a paraphrase; and I have my suspicions,
that if the drenching of Father Philip cometh of the Evil one, yet it may not have been altogether
without his own personal fault."

"How!" said the Father Abbot; "I will not believe that thou makest doubt that Satan, in former
days, hath been permitted to afflict saints and holy men, even as he afflicted the pious Job?"

"God forbid I should make question of it," said the monk, crossing himself; "yet, where there
is an exposition of the Sacristan's tale, which is less than miraculous, I hold it safe to
consider it at least, if not to abide by it. Now, this Hob the Miller hath a buxom daughter.
Suppose--I say only suppose--that our Sacristan met her at the ford on her return from her
uncle's on the other side, for there she hath this evening been--suppose, that, in courtesy,
and to save her stripping hose and shoon, the Sacristan brought her across behind him-suppose
he carried his familiarities farther than the maiden was willing to admit; and we may easily
suppose, farther, that this wetting was the result of it."

"And this legend invented to deceive us!" said the Superior, reddening with wrath; "but most
strictly shall it be sifted and inquired into; it is not upon us that Father Philip must hope
to pass the result of his own evil practices for doings of Satan. To-morrow cite the wench
to appear before us--we will examine, and we will punish."

"Under your reverence's favour," said Eustace, "that were but poor policy. As things now stand
with us, the heretics catch hold of each flying report which tends to the scandal of our clergy.
We must abate the evil, not only by strengthening discipline, but also by suppressing and stifling
the voice of scandal. If my conjectures are true, the miller's daughter will be silent for
her own sake; and your reverence's authority may also impose silence on her father, and on
the Sacristan. If he is again found to afford room for throwing dishonour on his order, he
can be punished with severity, but at the same time with secrecy. For what say the Decretals!
Facinora ostendi dum punientur, flagitia autem abscondi debent."

A sentence of Latin, as Eustace had before observed, had often much influence on the Abbot,
because he understood it not fluently, and was ashamed to acknowledge his ignorance. On these
terms they parted for the night.

The next day, Abbot Boniface strictly interrogated Philip on the real cause of his disaster
of the previous night. But the Sacristan stood firm to his story; nor was he found to vary
from any point of it, although the answers he returned were in some degree incoherent, owing
to his intermingling with them ever and anon snatches of the strange damsel's song, which had
made such deep impression on his imagination, that he could not prevent himself from imitating
it repeatedly in the course of his examination. The Abbot had compassion with the Sacristan's
involuntary frailty, to which something supernatural seemed annexed, and finally became of
opinion, that Father Eustace's more natural explanation was rather plausible than just. And,
indeed, although we have recorded the adventure as we find it written down, we cannot forbear
to add that there was a schism on the subject in the convent, and that several of the brethren
pretended to have good reason for thinking that the miller's black-eyed daughter was at the
bottom of the affair after all. Whichever way it might be interpreted, all agreed that it had
too ludicrous a sound to be permitted to get abroad, and therefore the Sacristan was charged,
on his vow of obedience, to say no more of his ducking; an injunction which, having once eased
his mind by telling his story, it may be well conjectured that he joyfully obeyed.

The attention of Father Eustace was much less forcibly arrested by the marvellous tale of the
Sacristan's danger, and his escape, than by the mention of the volume which he had brought
with him from the Tower of Glendearg. A copy of the Scriptures, translated into the vulgar
tongue, had found its way even into the proper territory of the church, and had been discovered
in one of the most hidden and sequestered recesses of the Halidome of Saint Mary's.

He anxiously requested to see the volume. In this the Sacristan was unable to gratify him,
for he had lost it, as far as he recollected, when the supernatural being, as he conceived
her to be, took her departure from him. Father Eustace went down to the spot in person, and
searched all around it, in hopes of recovering the volume in question; but his labour was in
vain. He returned to the Abbot, and reported that it must have fallen into the river or the
mill-stream; "for I will hardly believe," he said, "that Father Philip's musical friend would
fly off with a copy of the Holy Scriptures."

"Being," said the Abbot, "as it is, an heretical translation, it may be thought that Satan
may have power over it."

"Ay!" said Father Eustace, "it is indeed his chiefest magazine of artillery, when he inspireth
presumptuous and daring men to set forth their own opinions and expositions of Holy Writ. But
though thus abused, the Scriptures are the source of our salvation, and are no more to be reckoned
unholy, because of these rash men's proceedings, than a powerful medicine is to be contemned,
or held poisonous, because bold and evil leeches have employed it to the prejudice of their
patients. With the permission of your reverence, I would that this matter were looked into
more closely. I will myself visit the Tower of Glendearg ere I am many hours older, and we
shall see if any spectre or white woman of the wild will venture to interrupt my journey or
return. Have I your reverend permission and your blessing?" he added, but in a tone that appeared
to set no great store by either.

"Thou hast both, my brother," said the Abbot; but no sooner had Eustace left the apartment,
than Boniface could not help breaking on the willing ear of the Sacristan his sincere wish,
that any spirit, black, white, or gray, would read the adviser such a lesson, as to cure him
of his presumption in esteeming himself wiser than the whole community.

"I wish him no worse lesson," said the Sacristan, "than to go swimming merrily down the river
with a ghost behind, and Kelpies, night-crows, and mud-eels, all waiting to have a snatch at him.

  Merrily swim we, the moon shines bright!
  Good luck to your fishing, whom watch you to-night?"

"Brother Philip," said the Abbot, "we exhort thee to say thy prayers, compose thyself, and
banish that foolish chant from thy mind;--it is but a deception of the devil's."

"I will essay, reverend Father," said the Sacristan, "but the tune hangs by my memory like
a bur in a beggar's rags; it mingles with the psalter--the very bells of the convent seem to
repeat the words, and jingle to the tune; and were you to put me to death at this very moment,
it is my belief I should die singing it--'Now swim we merrily'--it is as it were a spell upon me."

He then again began to warble

  "Good luck to your fishing."

And checking himself in the strain with difficulty, he exclaimed, "It is too certain--I am
but a lost priest! Swim we merrily--I shall sing it at the very mass--Wo is me! I shall sing
all the remainder of my life, and yet never be able to change the tune!"

The honest Abbot replied, "he knew many a good fellow in the same condition;" and concluded
the remark with "ho! ho! ho!" for his reverence, as the reader may partly have observed, was
one of those dull folks who love a quiet joke.

