Across the street from the Asylum, but facing the Avenue, was a great house of stone, made
stately by a large courtyard closed by wrought-iron gates. On the side street looking to the
Asylum, the windows in the second story had carved stone balconies; these were filled with
bright blossoms in their season and in winter with living green. There was plenty of room behind
the balcony flower-boxes for a white Angora cat to take her constitutional. When Flibbertigibbet
entered the Asylum in June, the cat and the flowers were the first objects outside its walls
to attract her attention and that of her chum, Freckles. It was not often that Freckles and
her mate were given, or could obtain, the chance to watch the balcony, for there were so many
things to do, something for every hour in the day: dishes to wash, beds to make, corridors
to sweep, towels and stockings to launder, lessons to learn, sewing and catechism. But one
day Flibbertigibbet--so Sister Angelica called the little girl from her first coming to the
Asylum, and the name clung to her--was sent to the infirmary in the upper story because of
a slight illness; while there she made the discovery of the "Marchioness." She called her that
because she deemed it the most appropriate name, and why "appropriate" it behooves to tell.

Behind the garbage-house, in the corner of the yard near the railroad tracks, there was a fine
place to talk over secrets and grievances. Moreover, there was a knothole in the high wooden
fence that inclosed the lower portion of the yard. When Flibbertigibbet put her eye to this
aperture, it fitted so nicely that she could see up and down the street fully two rods each
way. Generally that eye could range from butcher's boy to postman, or 'old clothes' man; but
one day, having found an opportunity, she placed her visual organ as usual to the hole--and
looked into another queer member that was apparently glued to the other side! But she was not
daunted, oh, no!

"Git out!" she commanded briefly.

"I ain't in." The Eye snickered.

"I'll poke my finger into yer!" she threatened further.

"I'll bite your banana off," growled the Eye.

"Yer a cross-eyed Dago."

"You're another--you Biddy!" The Eye was positively insulting; it winked at her.

Flibbertigibbet was getting worsted. She stamped her foot and kicked the fence. The Eye laughed
at her, then suddenly vanished; and Flibbertigibbet saw a handsome-faced Italian lad sauntering
up the street, hands in his pockets, and singing--oh, how he sang! The little girl forgot her
rage in listening to the song, the words of which reminded her of dear Nonna Lisa and her own
joys of a four weeks' vagabondage spent in the old Italian's company. All this she confessed
to Freckles; and the two, under one pretence or another, managed to make daily visits to the
garbage house knothole.

That hole was every bit as good as a surprise party to them. The Eye was seen there but once
more, when it informed the other Eye that it belonged to Luigi Poggi, Nonna Lisa's one grandson;
that it was off in Chicago with a vaudeville troupe while the other Eye had been with Nonna
Lisa. But instead of the Eye there appeared a stick of candy twisted in a paper and thrust
through; at another time some fresh dates, strung on a long string, were found dangling on
the inner side of the fence--the knothole having provided the point of entrance for each date;
once a small bunch of wild flowers graced it on the yard side. Again, for three months, the
hole served for a circulating library. A whole story found lodgement there, a chapter at a
time, torn from a paper-covered novel. Flibbertigibbet carried them around with her pinned
inside of her blue denim apron, and read them to Freckles whenever she was sure of not being
caught. Luigi was their one boy on earth.

The Marchioness of Isola Bella, that was the name of the story; and if Flibbertigibbet and
Freckles on their narrow cots in the bare upper dormitory of the Orphan Asylum on ----nd Street,
did not dream of sapphire lakes and snow-crowned mountains, of marble palaces and turtledoves,
of lovely ladies and lordly men, of serenades and guitars and ropes of pearl, it was not the
fault either of Luigi Poggi or the Marchioness of Isola Bella. But at times the story-book
marchioness seemed very far away, and it was a happy thought of Flibbertigibbet's to name the
little lady in the great house after her; for, once, watching at twilight from the cold window
seat in the dormitory, the two orphan children saw her ladyship dressed for a party, the maid
having forgotten to lower the shades.

Freckles and Flibbertigibbet dared scarcely breathe; it was so much better than the Marchioness
of Isola Bella, for this one was real and alive--oh, yes, very much alive! She danced about
the room, running from the maid when she tried to catch her, and when the door opened and a
tall man came in with arms opened wide, the real Marchioness did just what the story-book marchioness
did on the last page to her lover: gave one leap into the outstretched arms of the father-lover.

While the two children opposite were looking with all their eyes at this unexpected dénouement,
the maid drew the shades, and Freckles and Flibbertigibbet were left to stare at each other
in the dark and cold. Flibbertigibbet nodded and whispered:

"That takes the cake. The Marchioness of Isola Bella ain't in it!"

Freckles squeezed her hand. Thereafter, although the girls appreciated the various favors of
the knothole, their entire and passionate allegiance was given to the real Marchioness across
the way.

IV

One day, it was just after Thanksgiving, the Marchioness discovered her opposite neighbors.
It was warm and sunny, a summer day that had strayed from its place in the Year's procession.
The maid was putting the Angora cat out on the balcony among the dwarf evergreens. The Marchioness
was trying to help her when, happening to look across the street, she saw the two faces at
the opposite window. She stared for a moment, then taking the cat from the window sill held
her up for the two little girls to see. Flibbertigibbet and her mate nodded vigorously and
smiled, making motions with their hands as if stroking the fur.

The Marchioness dropped the cat and waved her hand to them; the maid drew her back from the
window; the two girls saw her ladyship twitch away from the detaining hand and stamp her foot.

"Gee!" said Flibbertigibbet under her breath, "she's just like us."

"Oh, wot's she up ter now?" Freckles whispered.

Truly, any sane person would have asked that question. The Marchioness, having gained her point,
was standing on the window seat by the open window, which was protected by an iron grating,
and making curious motions with her fingers and hands.

"Is she a luny?" Freckles asked in an awed voice.

Flibbertigibbet was gazing fixedly at this apparition and made no reply. After watching this
pantomime a few minutes, she spoke slowly:

"She's one of the dumb uns; I've seen 'em."

The Marchioness was now making frantic gestures towards the top of their window. She was laughing
too.

"She's a lively one if she is a dumber," said Freckles approvingly. Flibbertigibbet jumped
to her feet and likewise stood on the window sill.

"Gee! She wants us to git the window open at the top. Here--pull!" The two children hung their
combined weight by the tips of their fingers from the upper sash, and the great window opened
slowly a few inches; then it stuck fast. But they both heard the gleeful voice of their opposite
neighbor and welcomed the sound.

"I'm talking to you--it's the only way I can--the deaf and dumb--"

The maid lifted her down, struggling, from the window seat, and they heard the childish voice
scolding in a tongue unknown to them.

Flibbertigibbet set immediately about earning the right to learn the deaf-and-dumb alphabet;
she hung out all monitor Number Twelve's washing--dish towels, stockings, handkerchiefs--every
other day for two weeks in the bitter December weather. She knew that this special monitor
had a small brother in the Asylum for Deaf Mutes; this girl taught her the strange language
in compensation for the child's time and labor. It was mostly "give and take" in the Asylum.

"That child has been angelic lately; I don't know what's going to happen." Long-suffering Sister
Agatha heaved a sigh of relief.

"Oh, there is a storm brewing you may be sure; this calm is unnatural," Sister Angelica replied,
smiling at sight of the little figure in the yard dancing in the midst of an admiring circle
of blue-nosed girls. "I believe they would rather stand and watch her than to run about and
get warm. She is as much fun for them as a circus, and she learns so quickly! Have you noticed
her voice in chapel lately?"

"Yes, I have"; said Sister Agatha grumpily, "and I confess I can't bear to hear her sing like
an angel when she is such a little fiend."

Sister Angelica smiled. "Oh, I'm sure she'll come out all right; there's nothing vicious about
her, and she's a loyal little soul, you can't deny that."

"Yes, to those she loves," Sister Agatha answered with some bitterness. She knew she was no
favorite with the subject under discussion. "See her now! I shouldn't think she would have
a whole bone left in her body."

They were playing "Snap-the-whip". Flibbertigibbet was the snapper for a line of twenty or
more girls. As she swung the circle her legs flew so fast they fairly twinkled, and her hops
and skips were a marvel to onlookers. But she landed right side up at last, although breathless,
her long braid unloosened, hair tossing on the wind, cheeks red as American beauty roses, and
gray eyes black with excitement of the game. Then the bell rang its warning, the children formed
in line and marched in to lessons.

The two weeks in December in which Flibbertigibbet had given herself to the acquisition of
the new language, proved long for the Marchioness. Every day she watched at the window for
the reappearance of the two children at the bare upper window opposite; but thus far in vain.
However, on the second Saturday after their first across-street meeting, she saw to her great
joy the two little girls curled up on the window sill and frantically waving to attract her
attention. The Marchioness nodded and smiled, clapped her hands, and mounted upon her own broad
window seat in order to have an unobstructed view over the iron grating.

"She sees us, she sees us!" Freckles cried excitedly, but under her breath; "now let's begin."

Flibbertigibbet chose one of the panes that was cleaner than the others and putting her two
hands close to it began operations. The Marchioness fairly hopped up and down with delight
when she saw the familiar symbols of the deaf-and-dumb alphabet, and immediately set her own
small white hands to work on her first sentence:

"Go slow."

Flibbertigibbet nodded emphatically; the conversation was begun again and continued for half
an hour. It was in truth a labor as well as a work of love. The spelling in both cases was
far from perfect and, at times, puzzling to both parties; but little by little they became
used to each other's erratic symbols together with the queer things for which they stood, and
no conversation throughout the length and breadth of New York--yes, even of our United States--was
ever more enjoyed than by these three girls. Flibbertigibbet and the Marchioness did the finger-talking,
and Freckles helped with the interpretation. In the following translation of this first important
exchange of social courtesies, the extremely peculiar spelling, and wild combinations of vowels
in particular, are omitted: but the questions and answers are given exactly as they were constructed
by the opposite neighbors.

"Go slow." This as a word of warning from the Marchioness.

"You bet."

"Isn't this fun?"

"Beats the band."

"What is your name?"

Flibbertigibbet and her chum looked at each other; should it be nickname or real name? As they
were at present in society and much on their dignity they decided to give their real names.

"Aileen Armagh." Thereupon Flibbertigibbet beat upon her breast to indicate first person singular
possessive. The Marchioness stared at her for a minute, then spelled rather quickly:

"It's lovely. We call you something else."

"Who's we?"

"Aunt Ruth and I."

"What do you call me?"

"Flibbertigibbet."

"Git off!" cried Flibbertigibbet, recklessly shoving Freckles on to the floor. "Gee, how'd
she know!" And thereupon she jumped to her feet and, having the broad window sill to herself,
started upon a rather restricted coon dance in order to prove to her opposite neighbor that
the nickname belonged to her by good right. Oh, but it was fun for the Marchioness! She clapped
her hands to show her approval and catching up the skirt of her dainty white frock, slowly
raised one leg at a right angle to her body and stood so for a moment, to the intense admiration
of the other girls.

"That's what they call me here," said Flibbertigibbet when they got down to conversation again.

"What is hers?" asked the Marchioness, pointing to Freckles.

"Margaret O'Dowd, but we call her Freckles."

How the Marchioness laughed! So hard, indeed, that she apparently tumbled off the seat, for
she disappeared entirely for several minutes, much to the girls' amazement as well as chagrin.

"It's like she broke somethin'," whimpered Freckles; "a bone yer know--her nose fallin' that
way when she went over forrard."

"She ain't chany, I tell yer; she's jest Injy rubber," said Flibbertigibbet scornfully but
with a note of anxiety in her voice. At this critical moment the Marchioness reappeared and
jumped upon the seat. She had a curious affair in her hand; after placing it to her eyes, she
signalled her answer:

"I can see them."

"See what?"

"The freckles."

"Wot's she givin' us?" Freckles asked in a perplexed voice.

"She's all right," said Flibbertigibbet with the confidence of superior knowledge; "it's a
tel'scope; yer can see the moon through, an' yer freckles look to her as big as pie-plates."

Freckles crossed herself; it sounded like witches and it had a queer look.

"Ask her wot's her name," she suggested.

"What's your name?" Flibbertigibbet repeated on her fingers.

"Alice Maud Mary Van Ostend."

"Gee whiz, ain't that a corker!" Flibbertigibbet exclaimed delightedly. "How old are you?"
She proceeded thus with her personal investigation prompted thereto by Freckles.

"Most ten;--you?"

"Most twelve."

"And Freckles?" The Marchioness laughed as she spelled the name.

"Eleven."

"Ask her if she's an orphant," said Freckles.

"Are you an orphan, Freckles says."

"Half," came the answer. "What are you?"

"Whole," was the reply. "Which is your half?"

"I have only papa--I'll introduce him to you sometime when--"

This explanation took fully five minutes to decipher, and while they were at work upon it the
maid came up behind the Marchioness and, without so much as saying "By your leave", took her
down struggling from the window seat and drew the shades. Whereupon Flibbertigibbet rose in
her wrath, shook her fist at the insulting personage, and vowed vengeance upon her in her own
forceful language:

"You're an old cat, and I'll rub your fur the wrong way till the sparks fly."

At this awful threat Freckles looked alarmed, and suddenly realized that she was shivering,
the result of sitting so long against the cold window. "Come on down," she pleaded with the
enraged Flibbertigibbet; and by dint of coaxing and the promise of a green woollen watch-chain,
which she had patiently woven, and so carefully, with four pins and an empty spool till it
looked like a green worm, she succeeded in getting her away from the dormitory window.

V

If the Marchioness of Isola Bella had filled many of Flibbertigibbet's dreams during the last
six months, the real Alice Maud Mary Van Ostend now filled all her waking hours. Her sole thought
was to contrive opportunities for more of this fascinating conversation, and she and Freckles
practised daily on the sly in order to say more, and quickly, to the real Marchioness across
the way.

By good luck they were given a half-hour for themselves just before Christmas, in reward for
the conscientious manner in which they made beds, washed dishes, and recited their lessons
for an entire week. When Sister Angelica, laying her hand on Flibbertigibbet's shoulder, had
asked her what favor she wanted for the good work of that week, the little girl answered promptly
enough that she would like to sit with Freckles in the dormitory window and look out on the
street, for maybe there might be a hurdy-gurdy with a monkey passing through.

"Not this cold day, I'm sure," said Sister Angelica, smiling at the request; "for no monkey
could be out in this weather unless he had an extra fur coat and a hot water bottle for his
toes. Yes, you may go but don't stay too long in the cold."

But what if the Marchioness were to fail to make her appearance! They could not bear to think
of this, and amused themselves for a little while by blowing upon the cold panes and writing
their names and the Marchioness' in the vapor. But, at last--oh, at last, there she was! The
fingers began to talk almost before they knew it. In some respects it proved to be a remarkable
conversation, for it touched upon many and various topics, all of which proved of equal interest
to the parties concerned. They lost no time in setting about the exchange of their views.

"I'm going to a party," the Marchioness announced, smoothing her gown.

"What time?"

"Five o'clock, but I'm all ready. I am going to dance a minuet."

This was a poser; but Flibbertigibbet did not wish to be outdone, although there was no party
for her in prospect.

"I can dance too," she signalled.

"I know you can--lovely; that's why I told you."

"I wish I could see you dance the minute."

The Marchioness did not answer at once. Finally she spelled "Wait a minute," jumped down from
the broad sill and disappeared. In a short time she was back again.

"I'm going to dance for you. Look downstairs--when it is dark--and you'll see the drawing-room
lighted--I'll dance near the windows."

The two girls clapped their hands and Flibbertigibbet jumped up and down on the window sill
to express her delight.

"When do you have to go to bed?" was the next pointed question from Alice Maud Mary.

"A quarter to eight."

"Who puts you in?"

This was another poser for even Flibbertigibbet's quick wits.

"Wot does she mane?" Freckles demanded anxiously.

"I dunno; anyhow, I'll tell her the sisters."

"The sisters," was the word that went across the street.

"Oh, how nice! Do you say your prayers to them too?"

Freckles groaned. "Wot yer goin' to tell her now?"

"Shut up now till yer hear me, an' cross yerself, for I mane it." Such was the warning from
her mate.

"No; I say them to another lady--Our Lady."

"Oh gracious!" Freckles cried out under her breath and began to snicker.

"What lady?" The Marchioness looked astonished but intensely interested.

"The Holy Virgin. I'll bet she don't know nothin' 'bout Her," said Flibbertigibbet in a triumphant
aside to Freckles. The Marchioness' eyes opened wider upon the two children across the way.

"That is the mother of Our Lord, isn't it?" she said in her dumb way. The two children nodded;
no words seemed to come readily just then, for Alice Maud Mary had given them a surprise. They
crossed themselves.

"I never thought of saying my prayers to His mother before, but I shall now. He always had
a mother, hadn't he?"

Flibbertigibbet could think of nothing to say in answer, but she did the next best thing: she
drew her rosary from under her dress waist and held it up to the Marchioness who nodded understandingly
and began to fumble at her neck. In a moment she brought forth a tiny gold chain with a little
gold cross hanging from it. She held it up and dangled it before the four astonished eyes opposite.

"Gee! Yer can't git ahead of her, an' I ain't goin' to try. She's just a darlint." Flibbertigibbet's
heart was very full and tender at that moment; but she giggled at the next question.

"Do you know any boys?"

One finger was visible at the dormitory window. The Marchioness laughed and after telling them
she knew ever so many began to count on her fingers for the benefit of her opposite neighbors.

"One, two, three, four, five," she began on her right hand--

"I don't believe her," said Freckles with a suspicious sniff.

Flibbertigibbet turned fiercely upon her. "I'd believe her if she said she knew a thousand,
so now, Margaret O'Dowd, an' yer hold yer tongue!" she cried; but in reprimanding Freckles
for her want of faith she lost count of the boys.

"I must go now," said the Marchioness; "but when the drawing-room downstairs is lighted, you
look in--there'll be one boy there to dance with me. Be sure you look." Suddenly the Marchioness
made a sign that both girls understood, although it was an extra one and the very prettiest
of all in the deaf-and-dumb alphabet of the affections: she put her fingers to her lips and
blew them a kiss.

"Ain't she a darlint!" murmured Flibbertigibbet, tossing the same sign across the street. When
the Marchioness had left the window, the two girls spent the remaining minutes of their reward
in planning how best to see the dance upon which they had set their hearts. They thought of
all the places available, but were sure they would not be permitted to occupy them. At last
Flibbertigibbet decided boldly, on the strength of a good conscience throughout one whole week,
to ask at headquarters.

"I'm goin' straight to Sister Angelica an' ask her to let us go into the chapel; it's the only
place. Yer can see from the little windy in the cubby-hole where the priest gits into his other
clothes."

Freckles looked awestruck. "She'll never let yer go in there."

Her mate snapped her fingers in reply, and catching Freckles' hand raced her down the long
dormitory, down the two long flights of stairs to the schoolroom where Sister Angelica was
giving a lesson to the younger girls.

"Well, Flibbertigibbet, what is it now?" said the sister smiling into the eager face at her
elbow. When Sister Angelica called her by her nickname instead of by the Asylum number, Flibbertigibbet
knew she was in high favor. She nudged Freckles and replied:

"I want to whisper to you."

Sister Angelica bent down; before she knew it the little girl's arms were about her neck and
the child was telling her about the dance at the stone house across the way. The sister smiled
as she listened to the rush of eager words, but she was so glad to find this madcap telling
her openly her heart's one desire, that she did what she had never done before in all her life
of beautiful child-consecrated work: she said "Yes, and I will go with you. Wait for me outside
the chapel door at half-past four."

