The freedmen and colored people of Mobile are, as a general thing, orderly, quiet, industrious,
and well dressed, with an earnest desire to learn and to fit themselves for their new status.
My last report from the school commissioners of the colored schools of Mobile, made on the
28th of July, showed 986 pupils in daily attendance. They give no cause for the wholesale charges
made against them of insurrection, lawlessness, and hostility against their former masters
or the whites generally. On the contrary, they are perfectly docile and amenable to the laws,
and their leaders and popular teachers of their own color continually counsel them to industry
and effort to secure their living in an honorable way. They had collected from themselves up
to the 1st of August upwards of $5,000 for their own eleemosynary institutions, and I know
of many noble instances where the former slave has devoted the proceeds of his own industry
to the maintenance of his former master or mistress in distress. Yet, in the face of these
facts, one of the most intelligent and high-bred ladies of Mobile, having had silver plate
stolen from her more than two years ago, and having, upon affidavit, secured the incarceration
of two of her former slaves whom she suspected of the theft, came to me in my official capacity,
and asked my order to have them whipped and tortured into a confession of the crime charged
and the participants in it. This lady was surprised when I informed her that the days of the
rack and the thumbscrew were passed, and, though pious, well bred, and a member of the church,
thought it a hardship that a negro might not be whipped or tortured till he would confess what
he might know about a robbery, although not even a prima facie case existed against him, or
that sort of evidence that would induce a grand jury to indict. I offer this as an instance
of the feeling that exists in all classes against the negro, and their inability to realize
that he is a free man and entitled to the rights of citizenship.

With regard to municipal law in the State of Alabama, its administration is a farce. The ministers
of the law themselves are too often desperadoes and engaged in the perpetration of the very
crime they are sent forth to prohibit or to punish. Without the aid of the bayonets of the
United States Alabama is an anarchy. The best men of Alabama have either shed their blood in
the late war, emigrated, or become wholly incapacitated by their former action from now taking
part in the government of the State. The more sensible portion of the people tremble at the
idea of the military force being eliminated, for, whatever may be their hatred of the United
States soldier, in him they find their safety.

It has not been my lot to command to any great extent colored troops. I have had ample opportunity,
however, of observing them in Tennessee, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Alabama, and, comparing
them with white troops, I unhesitatingly say that they make as good soldiers. The two colored
regiments under my command in Mobile were noted for their discipline and perfection of drill,
and between those troops and the citizens of Mobile no trouble arose until after the proclamation
of the provisional governor, when it became necessary to arm them going to and from their fatigue
duty, because they were hustled from the sidewalk by infuriated citizens, who, carrying out
the principles enunciated by Mayor Hough and the common council and the newspapers heretofore
alluded to, sought to incite mob. I have said that a great deal of the trouble alluded to in
the government of the State has arisen since the appointment and proclamation of the provisional
governor. The people of Alabama then believed they were relieved from coercion of the United
States and restored to State government, and that having rid themselves of the bayonets, they
might assume the reins, which they attempted to do in the manner above described. When I speak
of the people I mean the masses, those that we call the populace. There are thinking, intelligent
men in Alabama, as elsewhere, who understand and appreciate the true condition of affairs.
But these men, for the most part, are timid and retiring, unwilling to take the lead, and even
when subjected to outrage, robbery, and pillage by their fellow-citizens, refrain from testifying,
and prefer to put up with the indignity rather than incur an unpopularity that may cost their
lives. Hence there is danger of the mob spirit running riot and rampant through the land, only
kept under by our forces.

That there are organized bands throughout the country who, as guerillas or banditti, now still
keep up their organization, with a view to further troubles in a larger arena, I have no doubt,
though, of course, I have no positive testimony. But this I know, that agents in Mobile have
been employed to transmit ammunition in large packages to the interior. One man by the name
of Dieterich is now incarcerated in the military prison at Mobile charged with this offence.
A detective was sent to purchase powder of him, who represented himself to be a guerilla, and
that he proposed to take it out to his band. He bought $25 worth the first, and $25 worth the
second day, and made a contract for larger quantities. Deputations of citizens waited upon
me from time to time to advise me that these bands were in being, and that they were in imminent
peril upon their avowing their intentions to take the oath of allegiance, or evincing in any
other way their loyalty to the government; and yet these men, while they claimed the protection
of the military, were unwilling to reveal the names of the conspirators. I have seen General
Wood's statement, which is true in all particulars so far as my own observation goes, and I
have had even far better opportunities than General Wood of knowing the character of the people
he now protects, and while protecting, is ignored socially and damned politically; for it is
a noticeable fact that, after a sojourn in Mobile of upwards of six weeks in command of the
State, during part of which time he was ill and suffering, he received but one call socially
out of a community heretofore considered one of the most opulent, refined, and hospitable of
all the maritime cities of the South, the favorite home of the officers of the army and the
navy in by-gone days; and that one call from General Longstreet, who was simply in transitu.

THOMAS KILBY SMITH, Brigadier General United States Volunteers.

No. 10.

HEADQUARTERS NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI,

Jackson, Mississippi, August 27, 1865.

General: The northern district of Mississippi embraces that portion of the State north of southern
boundary lines of Clark, Jasper, Smith, Simpson, and Hinds counties, except the six counties
(Warren, Yazoo, Issaquena, Washington, Sunflower, and Bolivar) constituting the western district.

The entire railroad system of the State is within my district, and although these lines of
communication were seriously injured during the war, steps are being taken everywhere to repair
them as fast as means can be procured. The break of thirty-five miles on the Southern (Vicksburg
Mendrain) railroad, between Big Black and Jackson, is, by authority of the department commander,
being repaired by my troops, and will be ready for operation in a few days.

The thirty-six counties under my military control constitute the richest portion of the State,
the soil being the most available for agricultural purposes, cotton (Upland) being the great
staple, while in the eastern counties, in the valley of the upper Tombigbee, corn was grown
very extensively, the largest proportion of the usual demand in the State for this cereal being
supplied from that section.

The war and its consequences have laid waste nearly all the old fields, only a few acres were
cultivated this year to raise sufficient corn for the immediate use of the respective families
and the small amount of stock they succeeded in retaining after the many raids and campaigns
which took place in the State of Mississippi. Even these attempts will only prove partially
successful, for, although the final suppression of the rebellion was evident for the past two
years, the collapse which followed the surrender of the rebel armies brought with it all the
consequences of an unforeseen surprise. The people had in no way provided for this contingency,
and of course became very restive, when all property which they had so long been accustomed
to look upon as their own suddenly assumed a doubtful character. Their "slaves" began to wander
off and left their masters, and those growing crops, which could only be matured and gathered
by the labor of the former slaves. For the first time the people saw and appreciated the extreme
poverty into which they were thrown by the consequences of the rebellion, and it will hardly
surprise any one familiar with human nature, that people in good standing before the war should
resort to all kinds of schemes, even disresputable ones, to retrieve their broken fortunes.

Theft and every species of crime became matters of every-day occurrence. The large amount of
government cotton in all parts of the State proved a welcome objective point for every description
of lawlessness. Absent owners of cotton were looked upon by these people as public enemies
and became the victims of their (mostly illegal) speculations during the rebellion. This state
of affairs continued for some time in all portions of the district not occupied by United States
troops, and were in most instances accompanied by outrages and even murder perpetrated on the
persons of the late "slaves."

As soon as a sufficient number of troops could be brought into the district, I placed garrisons
at such points as would, as far as my means permitted, give me control of almost every county.
By the adoption of this system I succeeded in preventing this wholesale system of thieving,
and a portion of the stolen goods was recovered and returned to the owners, while the outrages
on negroes and Union men sensibly diminished.

From the beginning of the occupation until a recent period only five (5) cases of murder or
attempted murder occurred in my whole district, and I had no apprehension but what I would
be able to stop the recurrence of such crimes effectually. The troops at my disposal were,
however, sadly reduced by the recent muster-out of cavalry and infantry regiments.

Attala and Holmes counties were, on my arrival, the theatre of the greatest outrages; the interior
of these counties was garrisoned by cavalry detachments, which communicated with the infantry
posts along the railroad, and they (the cavalry) were most effective in preventing crime and
arresting malefactors, thus affording the much needed protection to peaceable inhabitants.
The cavalry garrisons, however, were withdrawn about two (2) weeks ago for muster-out, and
since that time four (4) murders, two of white Union men and two of negroes, have been reported
to me from Attala county. The infantry garrisons along the railroad are actively endeavoring
to effect the arrest of the suspected parties, but the chances of success are exceedingly doubtful,
as only mounted troops can be successfully used for that purpose.

In support of this opinion permit me to make a few remarks about the citizens. Although the
people, as a general thing, are very anxious for peace, and for the restoration of law and
order, they hardly realize the great social change brought about by the war. They all know
that slavery, in the form in which it existed before the war, and in which they idolized it,
is at an end; but these former slave owners are very loth to realize the new relative positions
of employer and employee, and all kinds of plans for "new systems of labor" are under constant
discussion. The principal feature of all plans proposed is that the labor of the nominally
freedmen should be secured to their old masters without risk of interruption or change. This
desire is very natural in an agricultural community, which has been left for generations in
the undisturbed enjoyment of all the comforts and independent luxuries induced by a system
where the laborer and not the labor was a marketable commodity. It is, however, just as natural
that those most interested should differ essentially with the slaveholder on that point. They
naturally claim that they (the laborers) have by the war and its consequences gained the right
to hire out their labor to whomsoever they please, and to change their relations so as to insure
for themselves the best possible remuneration. The defenders and protectors of this last position
are principally the agents of the Freedmen's Bureau and the co-operating military forces, and
of course they are not liked. Their decisions and rules are looked upon by former slaveholders,
and late rebels generally, as the commands of a usurper and a tyrant, and they will continue
to be so regarded until a general resumption of agricultural pursuits shall have brought about
a practical solution o this much vexed question, which, "in abstracts," is rather perplexing.
I think that if each party is compelled to remain within the bounds of justice and equity by
the presence of a neutral force, i.e. United States troops, one year's experience will assign
to both employers and employees their respective relative positions.

As soon as this most desirable end is attained, and the labor of the southern States regenerated
on a real free labor basis, and thus brought into harmony with the other portions of the Union,
the exclusive and peculiar notions of the southern gentlemen, so much at variance with the
views of the North, will have no longer any cause to exist, and the southern people will be
glad to recognize the American nationality without reserve, and without the sectional limitation
of geographical linos.

I desire to affirm that loyalty and patriotism have not as yet gained any solid foundation
among the white population of the States, and such cannot be expected until the relations between
employers and laborers have become a fixed and acknowledged fact; then, and not before, will
a feeling of contentment and loyalty replace the now prevalent bitterness and recriminations.

The taking of the amnesty oath has not changed the late rebels (and there are hardly any white
people here who have not been rebels) into loyal citizens. It was considered and looked upon
as an act of expediency and necessity to enable them to build their shattered and broken fortunes
up again.

The elevating feeling of true patriotism will return with the smile of prosperity, and it should
be the duty of all men to co-operate together in securing that end. This can only be done by
securing for the black race also a state of prosperity. This race, which at present furnishes
the only labor in the State, must be prevented from becoming a wandering and restless people,
and they must be taught to become steady citizens. This will best be accomplished by guaranteeing
them the right to acquire property and to become freeholders, with protection in the undisturbed
possession of their property. This and a general system of education will work a quicker and
more satisfactory change than the most stringent police regulations could ever achieve.

At present the occupancy of the State by the United States troops is the only safeguard for
the preservation of peace between the different classes.

I am, general, with great respect, your obedient servant,

P. JOS. OSTERHAUS, Major General U.S. Vols.

Major General CARL SCHURZ, Present.

No. 11.

STATEMENT OF MAJOR GENERAL CHARLES R. WOODS, COMMANDING DEPARTMENT OF ALABAMA.

Mobile, Ala., September 9, 1865.

I do not interfere with civil affairs at all, unless called upon by the governor of the State
to assist the civil authorities. There are troops within reach of every county ready to respond
to the call of the civil authorities, but there are some counties where the sheriffs and other
officers of the law appear to be afraid to execute their warrants, even with the aid of my
troops, because the protection the troops might give them is liable to be withdrawn as soon
as the duties for which they are called upon are fulfilled, although the troops are continually
ready to aid them at short notice.

In many of the counties, where there are no garrisons stationed, the civil authorities are
unable or unwilling to carry out the laws. One case has come to my official notice where persons
had been arrested on the complaint of citizens living in the country, for stealing, marauding,
&c., but when called upon to come down to testify, the complainants declared that they did
not know anything about the matter. There being no testimony, the accused parties had to be
released. One of those who, by the offenders, was supposed to have made complaint, was, shortly
after the release of the accused, found with his throat cut. It appears that in that locality
the lawless element predominates, and keeps the rest of the community in fear of having their
houses burnt, and of losing their lives. The case mentioned happened in Washington county,
about forty miles from this city, up the Alabama river. There is a garrison of four companies
at Mount Vernon arsenal, not far from that place, which at all times are ready to render aid
to the civil authorities.

I have sent a detachment of troops with an officer of the Freedmen's Bureau into Clark, Washington,
Choctaw, and Marengo counties to investigate the reports of harsh treatment of the negroes
that had come into the Freedmen's Bureau.

Cotton-stealing is going on quite generally, and on a large scale, wherever there is any cotton,
and the civil authorities have completely failed in stopping it. It has been reported to me
by citizens that armed bands attack and drive away the watchmen, load the cotton upon wagons,
and thus haul it away. No case has come to my knowledge in which such offenders have been brought
to punishment. Horse, mule, and cattle stealing is likewise going on on a large scale.

In compliance with instructions from General Thomas, I have issued orders to arrest, and try
by military commission, all citizens who are charged with stealing government horses, mules,
or other property. No such cases had been taken cognizance of by civil authorities within my
knowledge.

As to the treatment of negroes by whites, I would refer to the reports of the Freedmen's Bureau.

I sent out officers to every point in the State designated by the governor, on an average at
least two officers to a county, for the purpose of administering the amnesty oath, but owing
to a misapprehension on the part of the people, but few were taken before these officers until
the governor's second proclamation came out, requiring them to do so, when the oath was administered
to a great many.

I have found myself compelled to give one of the papers appearing in this city (the Mobile
Daily News) a warning, on account of its publishing sensational articles about impending negro
insurrections, believing that they are gotten up without any foundation at all, for the purpose
of keeping up an excitement.

CHAS. R. WOODS, Brevet Major General, Commanding Department of Alabama.

No. 12.

[General Orders No. 22.]

HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF MISSISSIPPI,

Vicksburg, Miss., August 24, 1865.

The attention of district commanders is called to a proclamation of the provisional governor
of the State of Mississippi, of the 19th instant, which provides for the organization of a
military force in each county of the State.

While the general government deems it necessary to maintain its authority here by armed forces,
it is important that the powers and duties of the officers commanding should be clearly defined.

The State of Mississippi was one of the first that engaged in the recent rebellion. For more
than four years all her energies have been devoted to a war upon our government. At length,
from exhaustion, she has been compelled to lay down her arms; but no orders have as yet been
received by the military authorities on duty here, indicating that the State has been relieved
from the hostile position which she voluntarily assumed towards the United States.

The general government, earnestly desiring to restore the State to its former position, has
appointed a provisional governor, with power to call a convention for the accomplishment of
that purpose. Upon the military forces devolve the duties of preserving order, and of executing
the laws of Congress and the orders of the War Department. The orders defining the rights and
privileges to be secured to freedmen meet with opposition in many parts of the State, and the
duties devolving upon military officers, in the execution of these orders, are often of a delicate
nature. It has certainly been the desire of the department commander, and, so far as he has
observed, of all officers on duty in the State, to execute these orders in a spirit of conciliation
and forbearance, and, while obeying implicitly all instructions of the President and the War
Department, to make military rule as little odious as possible to the people. While the military
authorities have acted in this spirit, and have been as successful as could have been anticipated,
the provisional governor has thought proper, without consultation with the department commander
or with any other officer of the United States on duty here, to organize and arm a force in
every county, urging the "young men of the State who have so distinguished themselves for gallantry"
to respond promptly to his call, meaning, thereby, that class of men who have as yet scarcely
laid down the arms with which they have been opposing our government. Such force, if organized
as proposed, is to be independent of the military authority now present, and superior in strength
to the United States forces on duty in the State. To permit the young men, who have so distinguished
themselves, to be armed and organized independently of United States military officers on duty
here, and to allow them to operate in counties now garrisoned by colored troops, filled, as
many of these men are, not only with prejudice against those troops and against the execution
of the orders relative to freedmen, but even against our government itself, would bring about
a collision at once, and increase in a ten-fold degree the difficulties that now beset the
people. It is to be hoped that the day will soon come when the young men called upon by Governor
Sharkey and the colored men now serving the United States will zealously co-operate for the
preservation of order and the promotion of the interests of the State and nation. It will be
gratifying to the friends of the colored race to have the assurance in an official proclamation
from the provisional governor, that the day has already arrived when the experiment can be
safely attempted. But as the questions on which these two classes will be called to co-operate
are those with regard to which there would undoubtedly be some difference of opinion, particularly
as to the construction of certain laws relative to freedmen, the commanding general prefers
to postpone the trial for the present. It is the earnest desire of all military officers, as
it must be of every good citizen, to hasten the day when the troops can with safety be withdrawn
from this State, and the people be left to execute their own laws, but this will not be hastened
by arming at this time the young men of the State.

The proclamation of the provisional governor is based on the supposed necessity of increasing
the military forces in the State to prevent the commission of crime by bad men. It is a remarkable
fact that most of the outrages have been committed against northern men, government couriers,
and colored people. Southern citizens have been halted by these outlaws, but at once released
and informed that they had been stopped by mistake; and these citizens have refused to give
information as to the parties by whom they were halted, although frankly acknowledging that
they knew them.

Governor Sharkey, in a communication written after his call for the organization of militia
forces was made, setting forth the necessity for such organization, states that the people
are unwilling to give information to the United States military authorities which will lead
to the detection of these outlaws, and suggests as a remedy for these evils the arming of the
very people who refuse to give such information.

A better plan will be to disarm all such citizens, and make it for their interest to aid those
who have been sent here to restore order and preserve peace.

It is therefore ordered, that district commanders give notice at once to all persons within
their respective districts that no military organizations, except those under the control of
the United States authorities, will be permitted within their respective commands, and that
if any attempt is made to organize after such notice, those engaged in it will be arrested.
Whenever any outrages are committed upon either citizens or soldiers, the commander of the
post nearest the point at which the offence is committed will report the fact at once to the
district commander, who will forthwith send as strong a force to the locality as can be spared.
The officer in command of such force will at once disarm every citizen within ten miles of
the place where the offence was committed. If any citizen, possessing information which would
lead to the capture of the outlaws, refuses to impart the same, he will be arrested and held
for trial. The troops will be quartered on his premises, and he be compelled to provide for
the support of men and animals. These villains can be arrested, unless they receive encouragement
from some portion of the community in which they operate; and such communities must be held
responsible for their acts, and must be made to realize the inevitable consequences of countenancing
such outrages.

By order of Major General SLOCUM:

J. WARREN MILLER, Assistant Adjutant General.

No. 14.

[Reported for the Vicksburg Journal.]

Speeches of Hon. Sylvanus Evans and Richard Cooper, candidates for Congress and attorney general,
Vicksburg, September 19, 1865.

Pursuant to a call published in our yesterday's issue, a large number of citizens assembled
at Apollo Hall last evening to listen to addresses from prominent candidates for office at
the ensuing election.

Shortly after 8 o'clock Hon. A. Burwell introduced Hon. Richard Cooper to the meeting, who
addressed them as follows:

SPEECH OF MR. COOPER.

Fellow-citizens: I present myself before you to-night as a candidate for the office of attorney
general. I have not before spoken in public since announcing myself, relying wholly upon my
friends and past record. I have resided in this State twenty-nine years, and have for twelve
years been a prosecuting attorney.

Soon after announcing myself I found I had an opponent, and I concluded to accompany my friend,
Judge Evans, to Vicksburg, merely to make myself known, not intending to make a speech.

I was born in Georgia. The first vote I ever cast was with the old-line Whig party. I believed
in secession while it lasted, but am now as good a Union man as exists, and am in favor of
breaking down old barriers, and making harmony and peace prevail.

I was a delegate to the State convention lately in session at Jackson, and hope the legislature
will carry out the suggestions of the convention. I believe the negro is entitled to the claims
of a freeman, now that he is made free, and I hope he will have them secured to him. I am thankful
that Mississippi has the right of jurisdiction, and I hope she will always have it. The office
I am a candidate for is not a political, but strictly a judicial office. If elected I shall
use my utmost endeavors to promote the interests of the State and country.

Hon. Sylvanus Evans was then introduced to the audience by Mr. Cooper, who spoke substantially
as follows:

SPEECH OF JUDGE EVANS.

FELLOW-CITIZENS OF WARREN COUNTY: I am grateful to meet you here this evening, although a stranger
to most of you. Here you must judge of my standing, and I hope you will pardon me while I attempt
to explain my position to you. I came to Mississippi in 1837, and moved to Lauderdale county
in 1839; by profession, in early life, a blacksmith, latterly a lawyer, practicing in eastern
Mississippi; to some extent a politician, always believing in the policy of the old-line Whigs,
and always acting with them.

We are now emerging; now daylight is dawning upon us. But whether peace and prosperity shall
return in its fulness is now a question with the people. I am a candidate before you for the
United States Congress. Let me say to you, as wise men, that unless the people and the legislature
do their duty, it is useless to send me or any one else to Washington, as we cannot there obtain
seats in Congress.

My opponent, Mr. West, was nominated at Jackson by a lot of unauthorized delegates, which nomination
was, in my judgment, of no account. Were your delegates from this county authorized to nominate
candidates for Congress? Ours were not. I am before the people at the urgent request of many
friends; not by any nomination made at Jackson.

I heartily approve of the action of the convention. But this action will be useless unless
the legislature you elect meet and build the structure upon the foundation laid by the convention.
The convention did not abolish slavery. The result of four and a half years of struggle determined
whether it was abolished by the bayonet or by legislation. It remains for you to show by your
action whether this was done to rid the State of bayonets, or to obtain your representation
in Washington. It is not enough to say the negro is free. The convention requires the legislature
to adopt such laws as will protect the negro in his rights of person and property.

