Report of the Conduct of the War.--Congress.

Bryant's Popular History of the United States.

Virginia Campaigns of '64 and '65.--Humphrey.

Life and Public Service of Charles Sumner.--Lester.

Boys and Girls Magazine, 1869.--Oliver Optic.

Burnside and the Ninth Army Corps.--Woodbury.

Military History of Kansas.--J. B. McAfee.

History of the Great Rebellion.--Kettell.

APPENDIX.

HISTORY OF THE 29TH CONNECTICUT NEGRO VOLUNTEERS.

     "HEADQUARTERS 29TH CONNECTICUT COLORED VOLUNTEERS,
                  HARTFORD, CONN., November 29th, 1865.

     "Brigadier-General H. J. MORSE,
         Adjutant-General, State of Connecticut.

"GENERAL: In obedience to your request I have the honor to submit the following as the history
of the 29th Regiment Connecticut Volunteers (Colored):

"Recruiting for this regiment began early in the autumn of 1863, and by the latter part of
January, 1864, the maximum number had been enlisted. During its organization the regiment was
stationed at Fair Haven, Conn. On the 8th of March, 1864, the regiment was formally mustered
into the service of the United States.

"No field officer had as yet reported, but on the 12th of March William B. Wooster, formerly
lieutenant-colonel of the 20th Connecticut Volunteers, reported to the regiment, and soon after
assumed command.

"On the 19th day of March the regiment formed in line, and after the presentation of a flag
by the colored ladies of New Haven, marched on board the transport "Warrior."

"On the 20th we steamed out of New Haven harbor, and after a pleasant voyage disembarked at
Annapolis, Md.

"The regiment was as yet unarmed, but on the 7th of April we received the full complement of
the best Springfield rifled muskets.

"At this time the 9th Corps was assembling at Annapolis, and to it we were assigned, but on
the 8th of April the regiment received orders to proceed to Hilton Head, S. C., and on the
9th of April we left Annapolis for that place. Arriving at Hilton Head we were ordered to Beaufort,
S. C., where we disembarked on the 13th of April. The regiment had, up to this time, learned
nothing of drill or discipline, so that there was plenty of work to be done.

"After a fine camp had been laid out the work of converting the raw material of the regiment
into good soldiers was vigorously and systematically commenced. The men learned rapidly, and
were faithful in the performance of their duties. While here, although the utmost attention
was paid to all that pertained to the health of the regiment, much sickness prevailed, the
change of climate telling severely upon the untried soldiers. In less than two months a decided
improvement in drill and discipline had been effected, and our dress parades began to attract
marked attention. But as yet our soldiers had not fired a shot at the rebellion, and had still
to be tried in the fiery ordeal of battle. At last events on the bloody fields of Virginia
determined our destiny.

"The battles fought during the summer campaign had demonstrated that negro troops could fight
well; they had also shown that more men were required in Virginia, and that we could not await
the slow process of a draft to get them. The success of the entire campaign seemed dubious,
and the army, after all its gigantic toils and losses, found itself confronted by strong lines
of works, manned by a brave and resolute foe. Under these circumstances the only policy was
concentration in Virginia. Accordingly all the troops that could be spared from other points
were ordered to Virginia.

