When the child draws its first breath do not confine it in tight wrappings. No cap, no bandages,
nor swaddling clothes. Loose and flowing flannel wrappers, which leave its limbs free and are
not too heavy to check his movements, not too warm to prevent his feeling the air. [Footnote:
I say "cradle" using the common word for want of a better, though I am convinced that it is
never necessary and often harmful to rock children in the cradle.] Put him in a big cradle,
well padded, where he can move easily and safely. As he begins to grow stronger, let him crawl
about the room; let him develop and stretch his tiny limbs; you will see him gain strength
from day to day. Compare him with a well swaddled child of the same age and you will be surprised
at their different rates of progress. [Footnote: The ancient Peruvians wrapped their children
in loose swaddling bands, leaving the arms quite free. Later they placed them unswaddled in
a hole in the ground, lined with cloths, so that the lower part of the body was in the hole,
and their arms were free and they could move the head and bend the body at will without falling
or hurting themselves. When they began to walk they were enticed to come to the breast. The
little negroes are often in a position much more difficult for sucking. They cling to the mother's
hip, and cling so tightly that the mother's arm is often not needed to support them. They clasp
the breast with their hand and continue sucking while their mother goes on with her ordinary
work. These children begin to walk at two months, or rather to crawl. Later on they can run
on all fours almost as well as on their feet.--Buffon. M. Buffon might also have quoted the
example of England, where the senseless and barbarous swaddling clothes have become almost
obsolete. Cf. La Longue Voyage de Siam, Le Beau Voyage de Canada, etc.]

You must expect great opposition from the nurses, who find a half strangled baby needs much
less watching. Besides his dirtyness is more perceptible in an open garment; he must be attended
to more frequently. Indeed, custom is an unanswerable argument in some lands and among all
classes of people.

Do not argue with the nurses; give your orders, see them carried out, and spare no pains to
make the attention you prescribe easy in practice. Why not take your share in it? With ordinary
nurslings, where the body alone is thought of, nothing matters so long as the child lives and
does not actually die, but with us, when education begins with life, the new-born child is
already a disciple, not of his tutor, but of nature. The tutor merely studies under this master,
and sees that his orders are not evaded. He watches over the infant, he observes it, he looks
for the first feeble glimmering of intelligence, as the Moslem looks for the moment of the
moon's rising in her first quarter.

We are born capable of learning, but knowing nothing, perceiving nothing. The mind, bound up
within imperfect and half grown organs, is not even aware of its own existence. The movements
and cries of the new-born child are purely reflex, without knowledge or will.

Suppose a child born with the size and strength of manhood, entering upon life full grown like
Pallas from the brain of Jupiter; such a child-man would be a perfect idiot, an automaton,
a statue without motion and almost without feeling; he would see and hear nothing, he would
recognise no one, he could not turn his eyes towards what he wanted to see; not only would
he perceive no external object, he would not even be aware of sensation through the several
sense-organs. His eye would not perceive colour, his ear sounds, his body would be unaware
of contact with neighbouring bodies, he would not even know he had a body, what his hands handled
would be in his brain alone; all his sensations would be united in one place, they would exist
only in the common "sensorium," he would have only one idea, that of self, to which he would
refer all his sensations; and this idea, or rather this feeling, would be the only thing in
which he excelled an ordinary child.

This man, full grown at birth, would also be unable to stand on his feet, he would need a long
time to learn how to keep his balance; perhaps he would not even be able to try to do it, and
you would see the big strong body left in one place like a stone, or creeping and crawling
like a young puppy.

He would feel the discomfort of bodily needs without knowing what was the matter and without
knowing how to provide for these needs. There is no immediate connection between the muscles
of the stomach and those of the arms and legs to make him take a step towards food, or stretch
a hand to seize it, even were he surrounded with it; and as his body would be full grown and
his limbs well developed he would be without the perpetual restlessness and movement of childhood,
so that he might die of hunger without stirring to seek food. However little you may have thought
about the order and development of our knowledge, you cannot deny that such a one would be
in the state of almost primitive ignorance and stupidity natural to man before he has learnt
anything from experience or from his fellows.

We know then, or we may know, the point of departure from which we each start towards the usual
level of understanding; but who knows the other extreme? Each progresses more or less according
to his genius, his taste, his needs, his talents, his zeal, and his opportunities for using
them. No philosopher, so far as I know, has dared to say to man, "Thus far shalt thou go and
no further." We know not what nature allows us to be, none of us has measured the possible
difference between man and man. Is there a mind so dead that this thought has never kindled
it, that has never said in his pride, "How much have I already done, how much more may I achieve?
Why should I lag behind my fellows?"

As I said before, man's education begins at birth; before he can speak or understand he is
learning. Experience precedes instruction; when he recognises his nurse he has learnt much.
The knowledge of the most ignorant man would surprise us if we had followed his course from
birth to the present time. If all human knowledge were divided into two parts, one common to
all, the other peculiar to the learned, the latter would seem very small compared with the
former.  But we scarcely heed this general experience, because it is acquired before the age
of reason. Moreover, knowledge only attracts attention by its rarity, as in algebraic equations
common factors count for nothing. Even animals learn much. They have senses and must learn
to use them; they have needs, they must learn to satisfy them; they must learn to eat, walk,
or fly. Quadrupeds which can stand on their feet from the first cannot walk for all that; from
their first attempts it is clear that they lack confidence. Canaries who escape from their
cage are unable to fly, having never used their wings. Living and feeling creatures are always
learning. If plants could walk they would need senses and knowledge, else their species would
die out. The child's first mental experiences are purely affective, he is only aware of pleasure
and pain; it takes him a long time to acquire the definite sensations which show him things
outside himself, but before these things present and withdraw themselves, so to speak, from
his sight, taking size and shape for him, the recurrence of emotional experiences is beginning
to subject the child to the rule of habit. You see his eyes constantly follow the light, and
if the light comes from the side the eyes turn towards it, so that one must be careful to turn
his head towards the light lest he should squint. He must also be accustomed from the first
to the dark, or he will cry if he misses the light. Food and sleep, too, exactly measured,
become necessary at regular intervals, and soon desire is no longer the effect of need, but
of habit, or rather habit adds a fresh need to those of nature. You must be on your guard against
this.

The only habit the child should be allowed to contract is that of having no habits; let him
be carried on either arm, let him be accustomed to offer either hand, to use one or other indifferently;
let him not want to eat, sleep, or do anything at fixed hours, nor be unable to be left alone
by day or night. Prepare the way for his control of his liberty and the use of his strength
by leaving his body its natural habit, by making him capable of lasting self-control, of doing
all that he wills when his will is formed.

As soon as the child begins to take notice, what is shown him must be carefully chosen. The
natural man is interested in all new things. He feels so feeble that he fears the unknown:
the habit of seeing fresh things without ill effects destroys this fear. Children brought up
in clean houses where there are no spiders are afraid of spiders, and this fear often lasts
through life. I never saw peasants, man, woman, or child, afraid of spiders.

Since the mere choice of things shown him may make the child timid or brave, why should not
his education begin before he can speak or understand? I would have him accustomed to see fresh
things, ugly, repulsive, and strange beasts, but little by little, and far off till he is used
to them, and till having seen others handle them he handles them himself. If in childhood he
sees toads, snakes, and crayfish, he will not be afraid of any animal when he is grown up.
Those who are continually seeing terrible things think nothing of them.

All children are afraid of masks. I begin by showing Emile a mask with a pleasant face, then
some one puts this mask before his face; I begin to laugh, they all laugh too, and the child
with them. By degrees I accustom him to less pleasing masks, and at last hideous ones. If I
have arranged my stages skilfully, far from being afraid of the last mask, he will laugh at
it as he did at the first. After that I am not afraid of people frightening him with masks.

When Hector bids farewell to Andromache, the young Astyanax, startled by the nodding plumes
on the helmet, does not know his father; he flings himself weeping upon his nurse's bosom and
wins from his mother a smile mingled with tears. What must be done to stay this terror? Just
what Hector did; put the helmet on the ground and caress the child. In a calmer moment one
would do more; one would go up to the helmet, play with the plumes, let the child feel them;
at last the nurse would take the helmet and place it laughingly on her own head, if indeed
a woman's hand dare touch the armour of Hector.

If Emile must get used to the sound of a gun, I first fire a pistol with a small charge. He
is delighted with this sudden flash, this sort of lightning; I repeat the process with more
powder; gradually I add a small charge without a wad, then a larger; in the end I accustom
him to the sound of a gun, to fireworks, cannon, and the most terrible explosions.

I have observed that children are rarely afraid of thunder unless the peals are really terrible
and actually hurt the ear, otherwise this fear only comes to them when they know that thunder
sometimes hurts or kills. When reason begins to cause fear, let use reassure them. By slow
and careful stages man and child learn to fear nothing.

In the dawn of life, when memory and imagination have not begun to function, the child only
attends to what affects its senses. His sense experiences are the raw material of thought;
they should, therefore, be presented to him in fitting order, so that memory may at a future
time present them in the same order to his understanding; but as he only attends to his sensations
it is enough, at first, to show him clearly the connection between these sensations and the
things which cause them. He wants to touch and handle everything; do not check these movements
which teach him invaluable lessons. Thus he learns to perceive the heat, cold, hardness, softness,
weight, or lightness of bodies, to judge their size and shape and all their physical properties,
by looking, feeling, [Footnote: Of all the senses that of smell is the latest to develop in
children up to two or three years of age they appear to be insensible of pleasant or unpleasant
odours; in this respect they are as indifferent or rather as insensible as many animals.] listening,
and, above all, by comparing sight and touch, by judging with the eye what sensation they would
cause to his hand.

It is only by movement that we learn the difference between self and not self; it is only by
our own movements that we gain the idea of space. The child has not this idea, so he stretches
out his hand to seize the object within his reach or that which is a hundred paces from him.
You take this as a sign of tyranny, an attempt to bid the thing draw near, or to bid you bring
it. Nothing of the kind, it is merely that the object first seen in his brain, then before
his eyes, now seems close to his arms, and he has no idea of space beyond his reach. Be careful,
therefore, to take him about, to move him from place to place, and to let him perceive the
change in his surroundings, so as to teach him to judge of distances.

When he begins to perceive distances then you must change your plan, and only carry him when
you please, not when he pleases; for as soon as he is no longer deceived by his senses, there
is another motive for his effort. This change is remarkable and calls for explanation.

The discomfort caused by real needs is shown by signs, when the help of others is required.
Hence the cries of children; they often cry; it must be so. Since they are only conscious of
feelings, when those feelings are pleasant they enjoy them in silence; when they are painful
they say so in their own way and demand relief. Now when they are awake they can scarcely be
in a state of indifference, either they are asleep or else they are feeling something.

All our languages are the result of art. It has long been a subject of inquiry whether there
ever was a natural language common to all; no doubt there is, and it is the language of children
before they begin to speak. This language is inarticulate, but it has tone, stress, and meaning.
The use of our own language has led us to neglect it so far as to forget it altogether. Let
us study children and we shall soon learn it afresh from them. Nurses can teach us this language;
they understand all their nurslings say to them, they answer them, and keep up long conversations
with them; and though they use words, these words are quite useless. It is not the hearing
of the word, but its accompanying intonation that is understood.

To the language of intonation is added the no less forcible language of gesture. The child
uses, not its weak hands, but its face. The amount of expression in these undeveloped faces
is extraordinary; their features change from one moment to another with incredible speed. You
see smiles, desires, terror, come and go like lightning; every time the face seems different.
The muscles of the face are undoubtedly more mobile than our own. On the other hand the eyes
are almost expressionless. Such must be the sort of signs they use at an age when their only
needs are those of the body. Grimaces are the sign of sensation, the glance expresses sentiment.

As man's first state is one of want and weakness, his first sounds are cries and tears. The
child feels his needs and cannot satisfy them, he begs for help by his cries. Is he hungry
or thirsty? there are tears; is he too cold or too hot? more tears; he needs movement and is
kept quiet, more tears; he wants to sleep and is disturbed, he weeps. The less comfortable
he is, the more he demands change. He has only one language because he has, so to say, only
one kind of discomfort. In the imperfect state of his sense organs he does not distinguish
their several impressions; all ills produce one feeling of sorrow.

These tears, which you think so little worthy of your attention, give rise to the first relation
between man and his environment; here is forged the first link in the long chain of social order.

When the child cries he is uneasy, he feels some need which he cannot satisfy; you watch him,
seek this need, find it, and satisfy it. If you can neither find it nor satisfy it, the tears
continue and become tiresome. The child is petted to quiet him, he is rocked or sung to sleep;
if he is obstinate, the nurse becomes impatient and threatens him; cruel nurses sometimes strike
him. What strange lessons for him at his first entrance into life!

I shall never forget seeing one of these troublesome crying children thus beaten by his nurse.
He was silent at once. I thought he was frightened, and said to myself, "This will be a servile
being from whom nothing can be got but by harshness." I was wrong, the poor wretch was choking
with rage, he could not breathe, he was black in the face. A moment later there were bitter
cries, every sign of the anger, rage, and despair of this age was in his tones. I thought he
would die. Had I doubted the innate sense of justice and injustice in man's heart, this one
instance would have convinced me. I am sure that a drop of boiling liquid falling by chance
on that child's hand would have hurt him less than that blow, slight in itself, but clearly
given with the intention of hurting him.

This tendency to anger, vexation, and rage needs great care. Boerhaave thinks that most of
the diseases of children are of the nature of convulsions, because the head being larger in
proportion and the nervous system more extensive than in adults, they are more liable to nervous
irritation. Take the greatest care to remove from them any servants who tease, annoy, or vex
them. They are a hundredfold more dangerous and more fatal than fresh air and changing seasons.
When children only experience resistance in things and never in the will of man, they do not
become rebellious or passionate, and their health is better. This is one reason why the children
of the poor, who are freer and more independent, are generally less frail and weakly, more
vigorous than those who are supposed to be better brought up by being constantly thwarted;
but you must always remember that it is one thing to refrain from thwarting them, but quite
another to obey them. The child's first tears are prayers, beware lest they become commands;
he begins by asking for aid, he ends by demanding service. Thus from his own weakness, the
source of his first consciousness of dependence, springs the later idea of rule and tyranny;
but as this idea is aroused rather by his needs than by our services, we begin to see moral
results whose causes are not in nature; thus we see how important it is, even at the earliest
age, to discern the secret meaning of the gesture or cry.

When the child tries to seize something without speaking, he thinks he can reach the object,
for he does not rightly judge its distance; when he cries and stretches out his hands he no
longer misjudges the distance, he bids the object approach, or orders you to bring it to him.
In the first case bring it to him slowly; in the second do not even seem to hear his cries.
The more he cries the less you should heed him. He must learn in good time not to give commands
to men, for he is not their master, nor to things, for they cannot hear him.  Thus when the
child wants something you mean to give him, it is better to carry him to it rather than to
bring the thing to him.  From this he will draw a conclusion suited to his age, and there is
no other way of suggesting it to him.

The Abbe Saint-Pierre calls men big children; one might also call children little men. These
statements are true, but they require explanation. But when Hobbes calls the wicked a strong
child, his statement is contradicted by facts. All wickedness comes from weakness. The child
is only naughty because he is weak; make him strong and he will be good; if we could do everything
we should never do wrong. Of all the attributes of the Almighty, goodness is that which it
would be hardest to dissociate from our conception of Him. All nations who have acknowledged
a good and an evil power, have always regarded the evil as inferior to the good; otherwise
their opinion would have been absurd. Compare this with the creed of the Savoyard clergyman
later on in this book. Before the age of reason we do good or ill without knowing it, and there
is no morality in our actions, although there is sometimes in our feeling with regard to other
people's actions in relation to ourselves. A child wants to overturn everything he sees. He
breaks and smashes everything he can reach; he seizes a bird as he seizes a stone, and strangles
it without knowing what he is about.

Why so? In the first place philosophy will account for this by inbred sin, man's pride, love
of power, selfishness, spite; perhaps it will say in addition to this that the child's consciousness
of his own weakness makes him eager to use his strength, to convince himself of it. But watch
that broken down old man reduced in the downward course of life to the weakness of a child;
not only is he quiet and peaceful, he would have all about him quiet and peaceful too; the
least change disturbs and troubles him, he would like to see universal calm. How is it possible
that similar feebleness and similar passions should produce such different effects in age and
in infancy, if the original cause were not different? And where can we find this difference
in cause except in the bodily condition of the two. The active principle, common to both, is
growing in one case and declining in the other; it is being formed in the one and destroyed
in the other; one is moving towards life, the other towards death. The failing activity of
the old man is centred in his heart, the child's overflowing activity spreads abroad. He feels,
if we may say so, strong enough to give life to all about him. To make or to destroy, it is
all one to him; change is what he seeks, and all change involves action. If he seems to enjoy
destructive activity it is only that it takes time to make things and very little time to break
them, so that the work of destruction accords better with his eagerness.

While the Author of nature has given children this activity, He takes care that it shall do
little harm by giving them small power to use it. But as soon as they can think of people as
tools to be used, they use them to carry out their wishes and to supplement their own weakness.
This is how they become tiresome, masterful, imperious, naughty, and unmanageable; a development
which does not spring from a natural love of power, but one which has been taught them, for
it does not need much experience to realise how pleasant it is to set others to work and to
move the world by a word.

As the child grows it gains strength and becomes less restless and unquiet and more independent.
Soul and body become better balanced and nature no longer asks for more movement than is required
for self-preservation. But the love of power does not die with the need that aroused it; power
arouses and flatters self-love, and habit strengthens it; thus caprice follows upon need, and
the first seeds of prejudice and obstinacy are sown.

FIRST MAXIM.--Far from being too strong, children are not strong enough for all the claims
of nature. Give them full use of such strength as they have; they will not abuse it.

SECOND MAXIM.--Help them and supply the experience and strength they lack whenever the need
is of the body.

THIRD MAXIM.--In the help you give them confine yourself to what is really needful, without
granting anything to caprice or unreason; for they will not be tormented by caprice if you
do not call it into existence, seeing it is no part of nature.

FOURTH MAXIM--Study carefully their speech and gestures, so that at an age when they are incapable
of deceit you may discriminate between those desires which come from nature and those which
spring from perversity.

The spirit of these rules is to give children more real liberty and less power, to let them
do more for themselves and demand less of others; so that by teaching them from the first to
confine their wishes within the limits of their powers they will scarcely feel the want of
whatever is not in their power.

This is another very important reason for leaving children's limbs and bodies perfectly free,
only taking care that they do not fall, and keeping anything that might hurt them out of their way.

The child whose body and arms are free will certainly cry much less than a child tied up in
swaddling clothes. He who knows only bodily needs, only cries when in pain; and this is a great
advantage, for then we know exactly when he needs help, and if possible we should not delay
our help for an instant. But if you cannot relieve his pain, stay where you are and do not
flatter him by way of soothing him; your caresses will not cure his colic, but he will remember
what he must do to win them; and if he once finds out how to gain your attention at will, he
is your master; the whole education is spoilt.

Their movements being less constrained, children will cry less; less wearied with their tears,
people will not take so much trouble to check them. With fewer threats and promises, they will
be less timid and less obstinate, and will remain more nearly in their natural state. Ruptures
are produced less by letting children cry than by the means taken to stop them, and my evidence
for this is the fact that the most neglected children are less liable to them than others.
I am very far from wishing that they should be neglected; on the contrary, it is of the utmost
importance that their wants should be anticipated, so that they need not proclaim their wants
by crying. But neither would I have unwise care bestowed on them. Why should they think it
wrong to cry when they find they can get so much by it? When they have learned the value of
their silence they take good care not to waste it. In the end they will so exaggerate its importance
that no one will be able to pay its price; then worn out with crying they become exhausted,
and are at length silent.

Prolonged crying on the part of a child neither swaddled nor out of health, a child who lacks
nothing, is merely the result of habit or obstinacy. Such tears are no longer the work of nature,
but the work of the child's nurse, who could not resist its importunity and so has increased
it, without considering that while she quiets the child to-day she is teaching him to cry louder
to-morrow.

Moreover, when caprice or obstinacy is the cause of their tears, there is a sure way of stopping
them by distracting their attention by some pleasant or conspicuous object which makes them
forget that they want to cry. Most nurses excel in this art, and rightly used it is very useful;
but it is of the utmost importance that the child should not perceive that you mean to distract
his attention, and that he should be amused without suspecting you are thinking about him;
now this is what most nurses cannot do.

Most children are weaned too soon. The time to wean them is when they cut their teeth. This
generally causes pain and suffering. At this time the child instinctively carries everything
he gets hold of to his mouth to chew it. To help forward this process he is given as a plaything
some hard object such as ivory or a wolf's tooth. I think this is a mistake. Hard bodies applied
to the gums do not soften them; far from it, they make the process of cutting the teeth more
difficult and painful. Let us always take instinct as our guide; we never see puppies practising
their budding teeth on pebbles, iron, or bones, but on wood, leather, rags, soft materials
which yield to their jaws, and on which the tooth leaves its mark.

We can do nothing simply, not even for our children. Toys of silver, gold, coral, cut crystal,
rattles of every price and kind; what vain and useless appliances. Away with them all! Let
us have no corals or rattles; a small branch of a tree with its leaves and fruit, a stick of
liquorice which he may suck and chew, will amuse him as well as these splendid trifles, and
they will have this advantage at least, he will not be brought up to luxury from his birth.

It is admitted that pap is not a very wholesome food. Boiled milk and uncooked flour cause
gravel and do not suit the stomach. In pap the flour is less thoroughly cooked than in bread
and it has not fermented. I think bread and milk or rice-cream are better. If you will have
pap, the flour should be lightly cooked beforehand. In my own country they make a very pleasant
and wholesome soup from flour thus heated. Meat-broth or soup is not a very suitable food and
should be used as little as possible. The child must first get used to chewing his food; this
is the right way to bring the teeth through, and when the child begins to swallow, the saliva
mixed with the food helps digestion.

I would have them first chew dried fruit or crusts. I should give them as playthings little
bits of dry bread or biscuits, like the Piedmont bread, known in the country as "grisses."
By dint of softening this bread in the mouth some of it is eventually swallowed the teeth come
through of themselves, and the child is weaned almost imperceptibly. Peasants have usually
very good digestions, and they are weaned with no more ado.

From the very first children hear spoken language; we speak to them before they can understand
or even imitate spoken sounds. The vocal organs are still stiff, and only gradually lend themselves
to the reproduction of the sounds heard; it is even doubtful whether these sounds are heard
distinctly as we hear them. The nurse may amuse the child with songs and with very merry and
varied intonation, but I object to her bewildering the child with a multitude of vain words
of which it understands nothing but her tone of voice. I would have the first words he hears
few in number, distinctly and often repeated, while the words themselves should be related
to things which can first be shown to the child. That fatal facility in the use of words we
do not understand begins earlier than we think. In the schoolroom the scholar listens to the
verbiage of his master as he listened in the cradle to the babble of his nurse. I think it
would be a very useful education to leave him in ignorance of both.

All sorts of ideas crowd in upon us when we try to consider the development of speech and the
child's first words. Whatever we do they all learn to talk in the same way, and all philosophical
speculations are utterly useless.

To begin with, they have, so to say, a grammar of their own, whose rules and syntax are more
general than our own; if you attend carefully you will be surprised to find how exactly they
follow certain analogies, very much mistaken if you like, but very regular; these forms are
only objectionable because of their harshness or because they are not recognised by custom.
I have just heard a child severely scolded by his father for saying, "Mon pere, irai-je-t-y?"
Now we see that this child was following the analogy more closely than our grammarians, for
as they say to him, "Vas-y," why should he not say, "Irai-je-t-y?" Notice too the skilful way
in which he avoids the hiatus in irai-je-y or y-irai-je? Is it the poor child's fault that
we have so unskilfully deprived the phrase of this determinative adverb "y," because we did
not know what to do with it? It is an intolerable piece of pedantry and most superfluous attention
to detail to make a point of correcting all children's little sins against the customary expression,
for they always cure themselves with time. Always speak correctly before them, let them never
be so happy with any one as with you, and be sure that their speech will be imperceptibly modelled
upon yours without any correction on your part.

But a much greater evil, and one far less easy to guard against, is that they are urged to
speak too much, as if people were afraid they would not learn to talk of themselves. This indiscreet
zeal produces an effect directly opposite to what is meant. They speak later and more confusedly;
the extreme attention paid to everything they say makes it unnecessary for them to speak distinctly,
and as they will scarcely open their mouths, many of them contract a vicious pronunciation
and a confused speech, which last all their life and make them almost unintelligible.

I have lived much among peasants, and I never knew one of them lisp, man or woman, boy or girl.
Why is this? Are their speech organs differently made from our own? No, but they are differently
used. There is a hillock facing my window on which the children of the place assemble for their
games. Although they are far enough away, I can distinguish perfectly what they say, and often
get good notes for this book. Every day my ear deceives me as to their age. I hear the voices
of children of ten; I look and see the height and features of children of three or four. This
experience is not confined to me; the townspeople who come to see me, and whom I consult on
this point, all fall into the same mistake.

This results from the fact that, up to five or six, children in town, brought up in a room
and under the care of a nursery governess, do not need to speak above a whisper to make themselves
heard. As soon as their lips move people take pains to make out what they mean; they are taught
words which they repeat inaccurately, and by paying great attention to them the people who
are always with them rather guess what they meant to say than what they said.

It is quite a different matter in the country. A peasant woman is not always with her child;
he is obliged to learn to say very clearly and loudly what he wants, if he is to make himself
understood. Children scattered about the fields at a distance from their fathers, mothers and
other children, gain practice in making themselves heard at a distance, and in adapting the
loudness of the voice to the distance which separates them from those to whom they want to
speak. This is the real way to learn pronunciation, not by stammering out a few vowels into
the ear of an attentive governess.  So when you question a peasant child, he may be too shy
to answer, but what he says he says distinctly, while the nurse must serve as interpreter for
the town child; without her one can understand nothing of what he is muttering between his
teeth. [Footnote: There are exceptions to this; and often those children who at first are most
difficult to hear, become the noisiest when they begin to raise their voices. But if I were
to enter into all these details I should never make an end; every sensible reader ought to
see that defect and excess, caused by the same abuse, are both corrected by my method. I regard
the two maxims as inseparable--always enough--never too much. When the first ii well established,
the latter necessarily follows on it.]

As they grow older, the boys are supposed to be cured of this fault at college, the girls in
the convent schools; and indeed both usually speak more clearly than children brought up entirely
at home. But they are prevented from acquiring as clear a pronunciation as the peasants in
this way--they are required to learn all sorts of things by heart, and to repeat aloud what
they have learnt; for when they are studying they get into the way of gabbling and pronouncing
carelessly and ill; it is still worse when they repeat their lessons; they cannot find the
right words, they drag out their syllables. This is only possible when the memory hesitates,
the tongue does not stammer of itself. Thus they acquire or continue habits of bad pronunciation.
Later on you will see that Emile does not acquire such habits or at least not from this cause.

I grant you uneducated people and villagers often fall into the opposite extreme. They almost
always speak too loud; their pronunciation is too exact, and leads to rough and coarse articulation;
their accent is too pronounced, they choose their expressions badly, etc.

But, to begin with, this extreme strikes me as much less dangerous than the other, for the
first law of speech is to make oneself understood, and the chief fault is to fail to be understood.
To pride ourselves on having no accent is to pride ourselves on ridding our phrases of strength
and elegance. Emphasis is the soul of speech, it gives it its feeling and truth. Emphasis deceives
less than words; perhaps that is why well-educated people are so afraid of it. From the custom
of saying everything in the same tone has arisen that of poking fun at people without their
knowing it. When emphasis is proscribed, its place is taken by all sorts of ridiculous, affected,
and ephemeral pronunciations, such as one observes especially among the young people about
court. It is this affectation of speech and manner which makes Frenchmen disagreeable and repulsive
to other nations on first acquaintance. Emphasis is found, not in their speech, but in their
bearing. That is not the way to make themselves attractive.

All these little faults of speech, which you are so afraid the children will acquire, are mere
trifles; they may be prevented or corrected with the greatest ease, but the faults which are
taught them when you make them speak in a low, indistinct, and timid voice, when you are always
criticising their tone and finding fault with their words, are never cured. A man who has only
learnt to speak in society of fine ladies could not make himself heard at the head of his troops,
and would make little impression on the rabble in a riot. First teach the child to speak to
men; he will be able to speak to the women when required.

Brought up in all the rustic simplicity of the country, your children will gain a more sonorous
voice; they will not acquire the hesitating stammer of town children, neither will they acquire
the expressions nor the tone of the villagers, or if they do they will easily lose them; their
master being with them from their earliest years, and more and more in their society the older
they grow, will be able to prevent or efface by speaking correctly himself the impression of
the peasants' talk. Emile will speak the purest French I know, but he will speak it more distinctly
and with a better articulation than myself.

The child who is trying to speak should hear nothing but words he can understand, nor should
he say words he cannot articulate; his efforts lead him to repeat the same syllable as if he
were practising its clear pronunciation. When he begins to stammer, do not try to understand
him. To expect to be always listened to is a form of tyranny which is not good for the child.
See carefully to his real needs, and let him try to make you understand the rest.  Still less
should you hurry him into speech; he will learn to talk when he feels the want of it.

It has indeed been remarked that those who begin to speak very late never speak so distinctly
as others; but it is not because they talked late that they are hesitating; on the contrary,
they began to talk late because they hesitate; if not, why did they begin to talk so late?
Have they less need of speech, have they been less urged to it? On the contrary, the anxiety
aroused with the first suspicion of this backwardness leads people to tease them much more
to begin to talk than those who articulated earlier; and this mistaken zeal may do much to
make their speech confused, when with less haste they might have had time to bring it to greater
perfection.

Children who are forced to speak too soon have no time to learn either to pronounce correctly
or to understand what they are made to say; while left to themselves they first practise the
easiest syllables, and then, adding to them little by little some meaning which their gestures
explain, they teach you their own words before they learn yours. By this means they do not
acquire your words till they have understood them. Being in no hurry to use them, they begin
by carefully observing the sense in which you use them, and when they are sure of them they
adopt them.

The worst evil resulting from the precocious use of speech by young children is that we not
only fail to understand the first words they use, we misunderstand them without knowing it;
so that while they seem to answer us correctly, they fail to understand us and we them.  This
is the most frequent cause of our surprise at children's sayings; we attribute to them ideas
which they did not attach to their words. This lack of attention on our part to the real meaning
which words have for children seems to me the cause of their earliest misconceptions; and these
misconceptions, even when corrected, colour their whole course of thought for the rest of their
life. I shall have several opportunities of illustrating these by examples later on.

Let the child's vocabulary, therefore, be limited; it is very undesirable that he should have
more words than ideas, that he should be able to say more than he thinks. One of the reasons
why peasants are generally shrewder than townsfolk is, I think, that their vocabulary is smaller.
They have few ideas, but those few are thoroughly grasped.

The infant is progressing in several ways at once; he is learning to talk, eat, and walk about
the same time. This is really the first phase of his life. Up till now, he was little more
than he was before birth; he had neither feeling nor thought, he was barely capable of sensation;
he was unconscious of his own existence.

"Vivit, et est vitae nescius ipse suae."--Ovid.

BOOK II

We have now reached the second phase of life; infancy, strictly so-called, is over; for the
words infans and puer are not synonymous.  The latter includes the former, which means literally
"one who cannot speak;" thus Valerius speaks of puerum infantem. But I shall continue to use
the word child (French enfant) according to the custom of our language till an age for which
there is another term.

When children begin to talk they cry less. This progress is quite natural; one language supplants
another. As soon as they can say "It hurts me," why should they cry, unless the pain is too
sharp for words? If they still cry, those about them are to blame. When once Emile has said,
"It hurts me," it will take a very sharp pain to make him cry.

If the child is delicate and sensitive, if by nature he begins to cry for nothing, I let him
cry in vain and soon check his tears at their source. So long as he cries I will not go near
him; I come at once when he leaves off crying. He will soon be quiet when he wants to call
me, or rather he will utter a single cry. Children learn the meaning of signs by their effects;
they have no other meaning for them. However much a child hurts himself when he is alone, he
rarely cries, unless he expects to be heard.

Should he fall or bump his head, or make his nose bleed, or cut his fingers, I shall show no
alarm, nor shall I make any fuss over him; I shall take no notice, at any rate at first. The
harm is done; he must bear it; all my zeal could only frighten him more and make him more nervous.
Indeed it is not the blow but the fear of it which distresses us when we are hurt. I shall
spare him this suffering at least, for he will certainly regard the injury as he sees me regard
it; if he finds that I hasten anxiously to him, if I pity him or comfort him, he will think
he is badly hurt. If he finds I take no notice, he will soon recover himself, and will think
the wound is healed when it ceases to hurt. This is the time for his first lesson in courage,
and by bearing slight ills without fear we gradually learn to bear greater.

I shall not take pains to prevent Emile hurting himself; far from it, I should be vexed if
he never hurt himself, if he grew up unacquainted with pain. To bear pain is his first and
most useful lesson. It seems as if children were small and weak on purpose to teach them these
valuable lessons without danger. The child has such a little way to fall he will not break
his leg; if he knocks himself with a stick he will not break his arm; if he seizes a sharp
knife he will not grasp it tight enough to make a deep wound. So far as I know, no child, left
to himself, has ever been known to kill or maim itself, or even to do itself any serious harm,
unless it has been foolishly left on a high place, or alone near the fire, or within reach
of dangerous weapons. What is there to be said for all the paraphernalia with which the child
is surrounded to shield him on every side so that he grows up at the mercy of pain, with neither
courage nor experience, so that he thinks he is killed by a pin-prick and faints at the sight
of blood?

With our foolish and pedantic methods we are always preventing children from learning what
they could learn much better by themselves, while we neglect what we alone can teach them.
Can anything be sillier than the pains taken to teach them to walk, as if there were any one
who was unable to walk when he grows up through his nurse's neglect? How many we see walking
badly all their life because they were ill taught?

Emile shall have no head-pads, no go-carts, no leading-strings; or at least as soon as he can
put one foot before another he shall only be supported along pavements, and he shall be taken
quickly across them. [Footnote: There is nothing so absurd and hesitating as the gait of those
who have been kept too long in leading-strings when they were little. This is one of the observations
which are considered trivial because they are true.] Instead of keeping him mewed up in a stuffy
room, take him out into a meadow every day; let him run about, let him struggle and fall again
and again, the oftener the better; he will learn all the sooner to pick himself up.  The delights
of liberty will make up for many bruises. My pupil will hurt himself oftener than yours, but
he will always be merry; your pupils may receive fewer injuries, but they are always thwarted,
constrained, and sad. I doubt whether they are any better off.

As their strength increases, children have also less need for tears. They can do more for themselves,
they need the help of others less frequently. With strength comes the sense to use it. It is
with this second phase that the real personal life has its beginning; it is then that the child
becomes conscious of himself. During every moment of his life memory calls up the feeling of
self; he becomes really one person, always the same, and therefore capable of joy or sorrow.
Hence we must begin to consider him as a moral being.

Although we know approximately the limits of human life and our chances of attaining those
limits, nothing is more uncertain than the length of the life of any one of us. Very few reach
old age. The chief risks occur at the beginning of life; the shorter our past life, the less
we must hope to live. Of all the children who are born scarcely one half reach adolescence,
and it is very likely your pupil will not live to be a man.

What is to be thought, therefore, of that cruel education which sacrifices the present to an
uncertain future, that burdens a child with all sorts of restrictions and begins by making
him miserable, in order to prepare him for some far-off happiness which he may never enjoy?
Even if I considered that education wise in its aims, how could I view without indignation
those poor wretches subjected to an intolerable slavery and condemned like galley-slaves to
endless toil, with no certainty that they will gain anything by it?  The age of harmless mirth
is spent in tears, punishments, threats, and slavery. You torment the poor thing for his good;
you fail to see that you are calling Death to snatch him from these gloomy surroundings. Who
can say how many children fall victims to the excessive care of their fathers and mothers?
They are happy to escape from this cruelty; this is all that they gain from the ills they are
forced to endure: they die without regretting, having known nothing of life but its sorrows.

Men, be kind to your fellow-men; this is your first duty, kind to every age and station, kind
to all that is not foreign to humanity. What wisdom can you find that is greater than kindness?
Love childhood, indulge its sports, its pleasures, its delightful instincts. Who has not sometimes
regretted that age when laughter was ever on the lips, and when the heart was ever at peace?
Why rob these innocents of the joys which pass so quickly, of that precious gift which they
cannot abuse? Why fill with bitterness the fleeting days of early childhood, days which will
no more return for them than for you? Fathers, can you tell when death will call your children
to him? Do not lay up sorrow for yourselves by robbing them of the short span which nature
has allotted to them. As soon as they are aware of the joy of life, let them rejoice in it,
go that whenever God calls them they may not die without having tasted the joy of life.

How people will cry out against me! I hear from afar the shouts of that false wisdom which
is ever dragging us onwards, counting the present as nothing, and pursuing without a pause
a future which flies as we pursue, that false wisdom which removes us from our place and never
brings us to any other.

Now is the time, you say, to correct his evil tendencies; we must increase suffering in childhood,
when it is less keenly felt, to lessen it in manhood. But how do you know that you can carry
out all these fine schemes; how do you know that all this fine teaching with which you overwhelm
the feeble mind of the child will not do him more harm than good in the future? How do you
know that you can spare him anything by the vexations you heap upon him now? Why inflict on
him more ills than befit his present condition unless you are quite sure that these present
ills will save him future ill? And what proof can you give me that those evil tendencies you
profess to cure are not the result of your foolish precautions rather than of nature? What
a poor sort of foresight, to make a child wretched in the present with the more or less doubtful
hope of making him happy at some future day. If such blundering thinkers fail to distinguish
between liberty and licence, between a merry child and a spoilt darling, let them learn to
discriminate.

Let us not forget what befits our present state in the pursuit of vain fancies. Mankind has
its place in the sequence of things; childhood has its place in the sequence of human life;
the man must be treated as a man and the child as a child. Give each his place, and keep him
there. Control human passions according to man's nature; that is all we can do for his welfare.
The rest depends on external forces, which are beyond our control.

Absolute good and evil are unknown to us. In this life they are blended together; we never
enjoy any perfectly pure feeling, nor do we remain for more than a moment in the same state.
The feelings of our minds, like the changes in our bodies, are in a continual flux.  Good and
ill are common to all, but in varying proportions. The happiest is he who suffers least; the
most miserable is he who enjoys least. Ever more sorrow than joy--this is the lot of all of
us. Man's happiness in this world is but a negative state; it must be reckoned by the fewness
of his ills.

Every feeling of hardship is inseparable from the desire to escape from it; every idea of pleasure
from the desire to enjoy it. All desire implies a want, and all wants are painful; hence our
wretchedness consists in the disproportion between our desires and our powers. A conscious
being whose powers were equal to his desires would be perfectly happy.

What then is human wisdom? Where is the path of true happiness? The mere limitation of our
desires is not enough, for if they were less than our powers, part of our faculties would be
idle, and we should not enjoy our whole being; neither is the mere extension of our powers
enough, for if our desires were also increased we should only be the more miserable. True happiness
consists in decreasing the difference between our desires and our powers, in establishing a
perfect equilibrium between the power and the will. Then only, when all its forces are employed,
will the soul be at rest and man will find himself in his true position.

In this condition, nature, who does everything for the best, has placed him from the first.
To begin with, she gives him only such desires as are necessary for self-preservation and such
powers as are sufficient for their satisfaction. All the rest she has stored in his mind as
a sort of reserve, to be drawn upon at need. It is only in this primitive condition that we
find the equilibrium between desire and power, and then alone man is not unhappy. As soon as
his potential powers of mind begin to function, imagination, more powerful than all the rest,
awakes, and precedes all the rest. It is imagination which enlarges the bounds of possibility
for us, whether for good or ill, and therefore stimulates and feeds desires by the hope of
satisfying them. But the object which seemed within our grasp flies quicker than we can follow;
when we think we have grasped it, it transforms itself and is again far ahead of us. We no
longer perceive the country we have traversed, and we think nothing of it; that which lies
before us becomes vaster and stretches still before us. Thus we exhaust our strength, yet never
reach our goal, and the nearer we are to pleasure, the further we are from happiness.

On the other hand, the more nearly a man's condition approximates to this state of nature the
less difference is there between his desires and his powers, and happiness is therefore less
remote. Lacking everything, he is never less miserable; for misery consists, not in the lack
of things, but in the needs which they inspire.

The world of reality has its bounds, the world of imagination is boundless; as we cannot enlarge
the one, let us restrict the other; for all the sufferings which really make us miserable arise
from the difference between the real and the imaginary. Health, strength, and a good conscience
excepted, all the good things of life are a matter of opinion; except bodily suffering and
remorse, all our woes are imaginary. You will tell me this is a commonplace; I admit it, but
its practical application is no commonplace, and it is with practice only that we are now concerned.

What do you mean when you say, "Man is weak"? The term weak implies a relation, a relation
of the creature to whom it is applied. An insect or a worm whose strength exceeds its needs
is strong; an elephant, a lion, a conqueror, a hero, a god himself, whose needs exceed his
strength is weak. The rebellious angel who fought against his own nature was weaker than the
happy mortal who is living at peace according to nature. When man is content to be himself
he is strong indeed; when he strives to be more than man he is weak indeed. But do not imagine
that you can increase your strength by increasing your powers. Not so; if your pride increases
more rapidly your strength is diminished. Let us measure the extent of our sphere and remain
in its centre like the spider in its web; we shall have strength sufficient for our needs,
we shall have no cause to lament our weakness, for we shall never be aware of it.

The other animals possess only such powers as are required for self-preservation; man alone
has more. Is it not very strange that this superfluity should make him miserable? In every
land a man's labour yields more than a bare living. If he were wise enough to disregard this
surplus he would always have enough, for he would never have too much. "Great needs," said
Favorin, "spring from great wealth; and often the best way of getting what we want is to get
rid of what we have." By striving to increase our happiness we change it into wretchedness.
If a man were content to live, he would live happy; and he would therefore be good, for what
would he have to gain by vice?

If we were immortal we should all be miserable; no doubt it is hard to die, but it is sweet
to think that we shall not live for ever, and that a better life will put an end to the sorrows
of this world.  If we had the offer of immortality here below, who would accept the sorrowful
gift? [Footnote: You understand I am speaking of those who think, and not of the crowd.] What
resources, what hopes, what consolation would be left against the cruelties of fate and man's
injustice? The ignorant man never looks before; he knows little of the value of life and does
not fear to lose it; the wise man sees things of greater worth and prefers them to it. Half
knowledge and sham wisdom set us thinking about death and what lies beyond it; and they thus
create the worst of our ills. The wise man bears life's ills all the better because he knows
he must die. Life would be too dearly bought did we not know that sooner or later death will
end it.

Our moral ills are the result of prejudice, crime alone excepted, and that depends on ourselves;
our bodily ills either put an end to themselves or to us. Time or death will cure them, but
the less we know how to bear it, the greater is our pain, and we suffer more in our efforts
to cure our diseases than if we endured them. Live according to nature; be patient, get rid
of the doctors; you will not escape death, but you will only die once, while the doctors make
you die daily through your diseased imagination; their lying art, instead of prolonging your
days, robs you of all delight in them. I am always asking what real good this art has done
to mankind. True, the doctors cure some who would have died, but they kill millions who would
have lived. If you are wise you will decline to take part in this lottery when the odds are
so great against you. Suffer, die, or get better; but whatever you do, live while you are alive.

Human institutions are one mass of folly and contradiction. As our life loses its value we
set a higher price upon it. The old regret life more than the young; they do not want to lose
all they have spent in preparing for its enjoyment. At sixty it is cruel to die when one has
not begun to live. Man is credited with a strong desire for self-preservation, and this desire
exists; but we fail to perceive that this desire, as felt by us, is largely the work of man.
In a natural state man is only eager to preserve his life while he has the means for its preservation;
when self-preservation is no longer possible, he resigns himself to his fate and dies without
vain torments. Nature teaches us the first law of resignation. Savages, like wild beasts, make
very little struggle against death, and meet it almost without a murmur. When this natural
law is overthrown reason establishes another, but few discern it, and man's resignation is
never so complete as nature's.

Prudence! Prudence which is ever bidding us look forward into the future, a future which in
many cases we shall never reach; here is the real source of all our troubles! How mad it is
for so short-lived a creature as man to look forward into a future to which he rarely attains,
while he neglects the present which is his? This madness is all the more fatal since it increases
with years, and the old, always timid, prudent, and miserly, prefer to do without necessaries
to-day that they may have luxuries at a hundred. Thus we grasp everything, we cling to everything;
we are anxious about time, place, people, things, all that is and will be; we ourselves are
but the least part of ourselves. We spread ourselves, so to speak, over the whole world, and
all this vast expanse becomes sensitive. No wonder our woes increase when we may be wounded
on every side. How many princes make themselves miserable for the loss of lands they never
saw, and how many merchants lament in Paris over some misfortune in the Indies!

Is it nature that carries men so far from their real selves? Is it her will that each should
learn his fate from others and even be the last to learn it; so that a man dies happy or miserable
before he knows what he is about. There is a healthy, cheerful, strong, and vigorous man; it
does me good to see him; his eyes tell of content and well-being; he is the picture of happiness.
A letter comes by post; the happy man glances at it, it is addressed to him, he opens it and
reads it. In a moment he is changed, he turns pale and falls into a swoon. When he comes to
himself he weeps, laments, and groans, he tears his hair, and his shrieks re-echo through the
air.  You would say he was in convulsions. Fool, what harm has this bit of paper done you?
What limb has it torn away? What crime has it made you commit? What change has it wrought in
you to reduce you to this state of misery?

Had the letter miscarried, had some kindly hand thrown it into the fire, it strikes me that
the fate of this mortal, at once happy and unhappy, would have offered us a strange problem.
His misfortunes, you say, were real enough. Granted; but he did not feel them. What of that?
His happiness was imaginary. I admit it; health, wealth, a contented spirit, are mere dreams.
We no longer live in our own place, we live outside it. What does it profit us to live in such
fear of death, when all that makes life worth living is our own?

Oh, man! live your own life and you will no longer be wretched. Keep to your appointed place
in the order of nature and nothing can tear you from it. Do not kick against the stern law
of necessity, nor waste in vain resistance the strength bestowed on you by heaven, not to prolong
or extend your existence, but to preserve it so far and so long as heaven pleases. Your freedom
and your power extend as far and no further than your natural strength; anything more is but
slavery, deceit, and trickery. Power itself is servile when it depends upon public opinion;
for you are dependent on the prejudices of others when you rule them by means of those prejudices.
To lead them as you will, they must be led as they will. They have only to change their way
of thinking and you are forced to change your course of action. Those who approach you need
only contrive to sway the opinions of those you rule, or of the favourite by whom you are ruled,
or those of your own family or theirs. Had you the genius of Themistocles, [Footnote: "You
see that little boy," said Themistocles to his friends, "the fate of Greece is in his hands,
for he rules his mother and his mother rules me, I rule the Athenians and the Athenians rule
the Greeks." What petty creatures we should often find controlling great empires if we traced
the course of power from the prince to those who secretly put that power in motion.] viziers,
courtiers, priests, soldiers, servants, babblers, the very children themselves, would lead
you like a child in the midst of your legions. Whatever you do, your actual authority can never
extend beyond your own powers. As soon as you are obliged to see with another's eyes you must
will what he wills. You say with pride, "My people are my subjects." Granted, but what are
you? The subject of your ministers. And your ministers, what are they? The subjects of their
clerks, their mistresses, the servants of their servants. Grasp all, usurp all, and then pour
out your silver with both hands; set up your batteries, raise the gallows and the wheel; make
laws, issue proclamations, multiply your spies, your soldiers, your hangmen, your prisons,
and your chains. Poor little men, what good does it do you? You will be no better served, you
will be none the less robbed and deceived, you will be no nearer absolute power.  You will
say continually, "It is our will," and you will continually do the will of others.

There is only one man who gets his own way--he who can get it single-handed; therefore freedom,
not power, is the greatest good. That man is truly free who desires what he is able to perform,
and does what he desires. This is my fundamental maxim. Apply it to childhood, and all the
rules of education spring from it.

Society has enfeebled man, not merely by robbing him of the right to his own strength, but
still more by making his strength insufficient for his needs. This is why his desires increase
in proportion to his weakness; and this is why the child is weaker than the man. If a man is
strong and a child is weak it is not because the strength of the one is absolutely greater
than the strength of the other, but because the one can naturally provide for himself and the
other cannot. Thus the man will have more desires and the child more caprices, a word which
means, I take it, desires which are not true needs, desires which can only be satisfied with
the help of others.

I have already given the reason for this state of weakness. Parental affection is nature's
provision against it; but parental affection may be carried to excess, it may be wanting, or
it may be ill applied. Parents who live under our ordinary social conditions bring their child
into these conditions too soon. By increasing his needs they do not relieve his weakness; they
rather increase it. They further increase it by demanding of him what nature does not demand,
by subjecting to their will what little strength he has to further his own wishes, by making
slaves of themselves or of him instead of recognising that mutual dependence which should result
from his weakness or their affection.

The wise man can keep his own place; but the child who does not know what his place is, is
unable to keep it. There are a thousand ways out of it, and it is the business of those who
have charge of the child to keep him in his place, and this is no easy task. He should be neither
beast nor man, but a child. He must feel his weakness, but not suffer through it; he must be
dependent, but he must not obey; he must ask, not command. He is only subject to others because
of his needs, and because they see better than he what he really needs, what may help or hinder
his existence. No one, not even his father, has the right to bid the child do what is of no
use to him.

When our natural tendencies have not been interfered with by human prejudice and human institutions,
the happiness alike of children and of men consists in the enjoyment of their liberty. But
the child's liberty is restricted by his lack of strength. He who does as he likes is happy
provided he is self-sufficing; it is so with the man who is living in a state of nature. He
who does what he likes is not happy if his desires exceed his strength; it is so with a child
in like conditions. Even in a state of nature children only enjoy an imperfect liberty, like
that enjoyed by men in social life.  Each of us, unable to dispense with the help of others,
becomes so far weak and wretched. We were meant to be men, laws and customs thrust us back
into infancy. The rich and great, the very kings themselves are but children; they see that
we are ready to relieve their misery; this makes them childishly vain, and they are quite proud
of the care bestowed on them, a care which they would never get if they were grown men.

These are weighty considerations, and they provide a solution for all the conflicting problems
of our social system. There are two kinds of dependence: dependence on things, which is the
work of nature; and dependence on men, which is the work of society. Dependence on things,
being non-moral, does no injury to liberty and begets no vices; dependence on men, being out
of order, [Footnote: In my PRINCIPLES OF POLITICAL LAW it is proved that no private will can
be ordered in the social system.] gives rise to every kind of vice, and through this master
and slave become mutually depraved. If there is any cure for this social evil, it is to be
found in the substitution of law for the individual; in arming the general will with a real
strength beyond the power of any individual will. If the laws of nations, like the laws of
nature, could never be broken by any human power, dependence on men would become dependence
on things; all the advantages of a state of nature would be combined with all the advantages
of social life in the commonwealth. The liberty which preserves a man from vice would be united
with the morality which raises him to virtue.

Keep the child dependent on things only. By this course of education you will have followed
the order of nature. Let his unreasonable wishes meet with physical obstacles only, or the
punishment which results from his own actions, lessons which will be recalled when the same
circumstances occur again. It is enough to prevent him from wrong doing without forbidding
him to do wrong. Experience or lack of power should take the place of law. Give him, not what
he wants, but what he needs. Let there be no question of obedience for him or tyranny for you.
Supply the strength he lacks just so far as is required for freedom, not for power, so that
he may receive your services with a sort of shame, and look forward to the time when he may
dispense with them and may achieve the honour of self-help.

Nature provides for the child's growth in her own fashion, and this should never be thwarted.
Do not make him sit still when he wants to run about, nor run when he wants to be quiet. If
we did not spoil our children's wills by our blunders their desires would be free from caprice.
Let them run, jump, and shout to their heart's content. All their own activities are instincts
of the body for its growth in strength; but you should regard with suspicion those wishes which
they cannot carry out for themselves, those which others must carry out for them. Then you
must distinguish carefully between natural and artificial needs, between the needs of budding
caprice and the needs which spring from the overflowing life just described.

I have already told you what you ought to do when a child cries for this thing or that. I will
only add that as soon as he has words to ask for what he wants and accompanies his demands
with tears, either to get his own way quicker or to over-ride a refusal, he should never have
his way. If his words were prompted by a real need you should recognise it and satisfy it at
once; but to yield to his tears is to encourage him to cry, to teach him to doubt your kindness,
and to think that you are influenced more by his importunity than your own good-will. If he
does not think you kind he will soon think you unkind; if he thinks you weak he will soon become
obstinate; what you mean to give must be given at once. Be chary of refusing, but, having refused,
do not change your mind.

Above all, beware of teaching the child empty phrases of politeness, which serve as spells
to subdue those around him to his will, and to get him what he wants at once. The artificial
education of the rich never fails to make them politely imperious, by teaching them the words
to use so that no one will dare to resist them. Their children have neither the tone nor the
manner of suppliants; they are as haughty or even more haughty in their entreaties than in
their commands, as though they were more certain to be obeyed. You see at once that "If you
please" means "It pleases me," and "I beg" means "I command." What a fine sort of politeness
which only succeeds in changing the meaning of words so that every word is a command! For my
own part, I would rather Emile were rude than haughty, that he should say "Do this" as a request,
rather than "Please" as a command. What concerns me is his meaning, not his words.

There is such a thing as excessive severity as well as excessive indulgence, and both alike
should be avoided. If you let children suffer you risk their health and life; you make them
miserable now; if you take too much pains to spare them every kind of uneasiness you are laying
up much misery for them in the future; you are making them delicate and over-sensitive; you
are taking them out of their place among men, a place to which they must sooner or later return,
in spite of all your pains. You will say I am falling into the same mistake as those bad fathers
whom I blamed for sacrificing the present happiness of their children to a future which may
never be theirs.

Not so; for the liberty I give my pupil makes up for the slight hardships to which he is exposed.
I see little fellows playing in the snow, stiff and blue with cold, scarcely able to stir a
finger. They could go and warm themselves if they chose, but they do not choose; if you forced
them to come in they would feel the harshness of constraint a hundredfold more than the sharpness
of the cold.  Then what becomes of your grievance? Shall I make your child miserable by exposing
him to hardships which he is perfectly ready to endure? I secure his present good by leaving
him his freedom, and his future good by arming him against the evils he will have to bear.
If he had his choice, would he hesitate for a moment between you and me?

Do you think any man can find true happiness elsewhere than in his natural state; and when
you try to spare him all suffering, are you not taking him out of his natural state? Indeed
I maintain that to enjoy great happiness he must experience slight ills; such is his nature.
Too much bodily prosperity corrupts the morals. A man who knew nothing of suffering would be
incapable of tenderness towards his fellow-creatures and ignorant of the joys of pity; he would
be hard-hearted, unsocial, a very monster among men.

Do you know the surest way to make your child miserable? Let him have everything he wants;
for as his wants increase in proportion to the ease with which they are satisfied, you will
be compelled, sooner or later, to refuse his demands, and this unlooked-for refusal will hurt
him more than the lack of what he wants. He will want your stick first, then your watch, the
bird that flies, or the star that shines above him. He will want all he sets eyes on, and unless
you were God himself, how could you satisfy him?

Man naturally considers all that he can get as his own. In this sense Hobbes' theory is true
to a certain extent: Multiply both our wishes and the means of satisfying them, and each will
be master of all. Thus the child, who has only to ask and have, thinks himself the master of
the universe; he considers all men as his slaves; and when you are at last compelled to refuse,
he takes your refusal as an act of rebellion, for he thinks he has only to command. All the
reasons you give him, while he is still too young to reason, are so many pretences in his eyes;
they seem to him only unkindness; the sense of injustice embitters his disposition; he hates
every one.  Though he has never felt grateful for kindness, he resents all opposition.

How should I suppose that such a child can ever be happy? He is the slave of anger, a prey
to the fiercest passions. Happy! He is a tyrant, at once the basest of slaves and the most
wretched of creatures. I have known children brought up like this who expected you to knock
the house down, to give them the weather-cock on the steeple, to stop a regiment on the march
so that they might listen to the band; when they could not get their way they screamed and
cried and would pay no attention to any one. In vain everybody strove to please them; as their
desires were stimulated by the ease with which they got their own way, they set their hearts
on impossibilities, and found themselves face to face with opposition and difficulty, pain
and grief. Scolding, sulking, or in a rage, they wept and cried all day. Were they really so
greatly favoured?  Weakness, combined with love of power, produces nothing but folly and suffering.
One spoilt child beats the table; another whips the sea. They may beat and whip long enough
before they find contentment.

If their childhood is made wretched by these notions of power and tyranny, what of their manhood,
when their relations with their fellow-men begin to grow and multiply? They are used to find
everything give way to them; what a painful surprise to enter society and meet with opposition
on every side, to be crushed beneath the weight of a universe which they expected to move at
will. Their insolent manners, their childish vanity, only draw down upon them mortification,
scorn, and mockery; they swallow insults like water; sharp experience soon teaches them that
they have realised neither their position nor their strength. As they cannot do everything,
they think they can do nothing. They are daunted by unexpected obstacles, degraded by the scorn
of men; they become base, cowardly, and deceitful, and fall as far below their true level as
they formerly soared above it.

Let us come back to the primitive law. Nature has made children helpless and in need of affection;
did she make them to be obeyed and feared? Has she given them an imposing manner, a stern eye,
a loud and threatening voice with which to make themselves feared? I understand how the roaring
of the lion strikes terror into the other beasts, so that they tremble when they behold his
terrible mane, but of all unseemly, hateful, and ridiculous sights, was there ever anything
like a body of statesmen in their robes of office with their chief at their head bowing down
before a swaddled babe, addressing him in pompous phrases, while he cries and slavers in reply?

If we consider childhood itself, is there anything so weak and wretched as a child, anything
so utterly at the mercy of those about it, so dependent on their pity, their care, and their
affection? Does it not seem as if his gentle face and touching appearance were intended to
interest every one on behalf of his weakness and to make them eager to help him? And what is
there more offensive, more unsuitable, than the sight of a sulky or imperious child, who commands
those about him, and impudently assumes the tones of a master towards those without whom he
would perish?

On the other hand, do you not see how children are fettered by the weakness of infancy? Do
you not see how cruel it is to increase this servitude by obedience to our caprices, by depriving
them of such liberty as they have? a liberty which they can scarcely abuse, a liberty the loss
of which will do so little good to them or us. If there is nothing more ridiculous than a haughty
child, there is nothing that claims our pity like a timid child. With the age of reason the
child becomes the slave of the community; then why forestall this by slavery in the home? Let
this brief hour of life be free from a yoke which nature has not laid upon it; leave the child
the use of his natural liberty, which, for a time at least, secures him from the vices of the
slave. Bring me those harsh masters, and those fathers who are the slaves of their children,
bring them both with their frivolous objections, and before they boast of their own methods
let them for once learn the method of nature.

I return to practical matters. I have already said your child must not get what he asks, but
what he needs; [Footnote: We must recognise that pain is often necessary, pleasure is sometimes
needed. So there is only one of the child's desires which should never be complied with, the
desire for power. Hence, whenever they ask for anything we must pay special attention to their
motive in asking. As far as possible give them everything they ask for, provided it can really
give them pleasure; refuse everything they demand from mere caprice or love of power.] he must
never act from obedience, but from necessity.

The very words OBEY and COMMAND will be excluded from his vocabulary, still more those of DUTY
and OBLIGATION; but the words strength, necessity, weakness, and constraint must have a large
place in it. Before the age of reason it is impossible to form any idea of moral beings or
social relations; so avoid, as far as may be, the use of words which express these ideas, lest
the child at an early age should attach wrong ideas to them, ideas which you cannot or will
not destroy when he is older. The first mistaken idea he gets into his head is the germ of
error and vice; it is the first step that needs watching. Act in such a way that while he only
notices external objects his ideas are confined to sensations; let him only see the physical
world around him. If not, you may be sure that either he will pay no heed to you at all, or
he will form fantastic ideas of the moral world of which you prate, ideas which you will never
efface as long as he lives.

"Reason with children" was Locke's chief maxim; it is in the height of fashion at present,
and I hardly think it is justified by its results; those children who have been constantly
reasoned with strike me as exceedingly silly. Of all man's faculties, reason, which is, so
to speak, compounded of all the rest, is the last and choicest growth, and it is this you would
use for the child's early training. To make a man reasonable is the coping stone of a good
education, and yet you profess to train a child through his reason!  You begin at the wrong
end, you make the end the means. If children understood reason they would not need education,
but by talking to them from their earliest age in a language they do not understand you accustom
them to be satisfied with words, to question all that is said to them, to think themselves
as wise as their teachers; you train them to be argumentative and rebellious; and whatever
you think you gain from motives of reason, you really gain from greediness, fear, or vanity
with which you are obliged to reinforce your reasoning.

Most of the moral lessons which are and can be given to children may be reduced to this formula;
Master. You must not do that.

Child. Why not?

Master. Because it is wrong.

Child. Wrong! What is wrong?

Master. What is forbidden you.

Child. Why is it wrong to do what is forbidden?

Master. You will be punished for disobedience.

Child. I will do it when no one is looking.

Master. We shall watch you.

Child. I will hide.

Master. We shall ask you what you were doing.

Child. I shall tell a lie.

Master. You must not tell lies.

Child. Why must not I tell lies?

Master. Because it is wrong, etc.

That is the inevitable circle. Go beyond it, and the child will not understand you. What sort
of use is there in such teaching? I should greatly like to know what you would substitute for
this dialogue. It would have puzzled Locke himself. It is no part of a child's business to
know right and wrong, to perceive the reason for a man's duties.

Nature would have them children before they are men. If we try to invert this order we shall
produce a forced fruit immature and flavourless, fruit which will be rotten before it is ripe;
we shall have young doctors and old children. Childhood has its own ways of seeing, thinking,
and feeling; nothing is more foolish than to try and substitute our ways; and I should no more
expect judgment in a ten-year-old child than I should expect him to be five feet high.  Indeed,
what use would reason be to him at that age? It is the curb of strength, and the child does
not need the curb.

When you try to persuade your scholars of the duty of obedience, you add to this so-called
persuasion compulsion and threats, or still worse, flattery and bribes. Attracted by selfishness
or constrained by force, they pretend to be convinced by reason. They see as soon as you do
that obedience is to their advantage and disobedience to their disadvantage. But as you only
demand disagreeable things of them, and as it is always disagreeable to do another's will,
they hide themselves so that they may do as they please, persuaded that they are doing no wrong
so long as they are not found out, but ready, if found out, to own themselves in the wrong
for fear of worse evils. The reason for duty is beyond their age, and there is not a man in
the world who could make them really aware of it; but the fear of punishment, the hope of forgiveness,
importunity, the difficulty of answering, wrings from them as many confessions as you want;
and you think you have convinced them when you have only wearied or frightened them.

What does it all come to? In the first place, by imposing on them a duty which they fail to
recognise, you make them disinclined to submit to your tyranny, and you turn away their love;
you teach them deceit, falsehood, and lying as a way to gain rewards or escape punishment;
then by accustoming them to conceal a secret motive under the cloak of an apparent one, you
yourself put into their hands the means of deceiving you, of depriving you of a knowledge of
their real character, of answering you and others with empty words whenever they have the chance.
Laws, you say, though binding on conscience, exercise the same constraint over grown-up men.
That is so, but what are these men but children spoilt by education? This is just what you
should avoid. Use force with children and reasoning with men; this is the natural order; the
wise man needs no laws.

Treat your scholar according to his age. Put him in his place from the first, and keep him
in it, so that he no longer tries to leave it. Then before he knows what goodness is, he will
be practising its chief lesson. Give him no orders at all, absolutely none. Do not even let
him think that you claim any authority over him. Let him only know that he is weak and you
are strong, that his condition and yours puts him at your mercy; let this be perceived, learned,
and felt. Let him early find upon his proud neck, the heavy yoke which nature has imposed upon
us, the heavy yoke of necessity, under which every finite being must bow. Let him find this
necessity in things, not in the caprices [Footnote: You may be sure the child will regard as
caprice any will which opposes his own or any will which he does not understand. Now the child
does not understand anything which interferes with his own fancies.] of man; let the curb be
force, not authority. If there is something he should not do, do not forbid him, but prevent
him without explanation or reasoning; what you give him, give it at his first word without
prayers or entreaties, above all without conditions.

Thus you will make him patient, equable, calm, and resigned, even when he does not get all
he wants; for it is in man's nature to bear patiently with the nature of things, but not with
the ill-will of another. A child never rebels against, "There is none left," unless he thinks
the reply is false. Moreover, there is no middle course; you must either make no demands on
him at all, or else you must fashion him to perfect obedience. The worst education of all is
to leave him hesitating between his own will and yours, constantly disputing whether you or
he is master; I would rather a hundred times that he were master.

It is very strange that ever since people began to think about education they should have hit
upon no other way of guiding children than emulation, jealousy, envy, vanity, greediness, base
cowardice, all the most dangerous passions, passions ever ready to ferment, ever prepared to
corrupt the soul even before the body is full-grown. With every piece of precocious instruction
which you try to force into their minds you plant a vice in the depths of their hearts; foolish
teachers think they are doing wonders when they are making their scholars wicked in order to
teach them what goodness is, and then they tell us seriously, "Such is man." Yes, such is man,
as you have made him. Every means has been tried except one, the very one which might succeed--well-regulated
liberty. Do not undertake to bring up a child if you cannot guide him merely by the laws of
what can or cannot be. The limits of the possible and the impossible are alike unknown to him,
so they can be extended or contracted around him at your will. Without a murmur he is restrained,
urged on, held back, by the hands of necessity alone; he is made adaptable and teachable by
the mere force of things, without any chance for vice to spring up in him; for passions do
not arise so long as they have accomplished nothing.

Give your scholar no verbal lessons; he should be taught by experience alone; never punish
him, for he does not know what it is to do wrong; never make him say, "Forgive me," for he
does not know how to do you wrong. Wholly unmoral in his actions, he can do nothing morally
wrong, and he deserves neither punishment nor reproof.

Already I see the frightened reader comparing this child with those of our time; he is mistaken.
The perpetual restraint imposed upon your scholars stimulates their activity; the more subdued
they are in your presence, the more boisterous they are as soon as they are out of your sight.
They must make amends to themselves in some way or other for the harsh constraint to which
you subject them. Two schoolboys from the town will do more damage in the country than all
the children of the village. Shut up a young gentleman and a young peasant in a room; the former
will have upset and smashed everything before the latter has stirred from his place. Why is
that, unless that the one hastens to misuse a moment's licence, while the other, always sure
of freedom, does not use it rashly. And yet the village children, often flattered or constrained,
are still very far from the state in which I would have them kept.

Let us lay it down as an incontrovertible rule that the first impulses of nature are always
right; there is no original sin in the human heart, the how and why of the entrance of every
vice can be traced. The only natural passion is self-love or selfishness taken in a wider sense.
This selfishness is good in itself and in relation to ourselves; and as the child has no necessary
relations to other people he is naturally indifferent to them; his self-love only becomes good
or bad by the use made of it and the relations established by its means. Until the time is
ripe for the appearance of reason, that guide of selfishness, the main thing is that the child
shall do nothing because you are watching him or listening to him; in a word, nothing because
of other people, but only what nature asks of him; then he will never do wrong.

I do not mean to say that he will never do any mischief, never hurt himself, never break a
costly ornament if you leave it within his reach. He might do much damage without doing wrong,
since wrong-doing depends on the harmful intention which will never be his. If once he meant
to do harm, his whole education would be ruined; he would be almost hopelessly bad.

Greed considers some things wrong which are not wrong in the eyes of reason. When you leave
free scope to a child's heedlessness, you must put anything he could spoil out of his way,
and leave nothing fragile or costly within his reach. Let the room be furnished with plain
and solid furniture; no mirrors, china, or useless ornaments. My pupil Emile, who is brought
up in the country, shall have a room just like a peasant's. Why take such pains to adorn it
when he will be so little in it? I am mistaken, however; he will ornament it for himself, and
we shall soon see how.

But if, in spite of your precautions, the child contrives to do some damage, if he breaks some
useful article, do not punish him for your carelessness, do not even scold him; let him hear
no word of reproval, do not even let him see that he has vexed you; behave just as if the thing
had come to pieces of itself; you may consider you have done great things if you have managed
to hold your tongue.

May I venture at this point to state the greatest, the most important, the most useful rule
of education? It is: Do not save time, but lose it. I hope that every-day readers will excuse
my paradoxes; you cannot avoid paradox if you think for yourself, and whatever you may say
I would rather fall into paradox than into prejudice. The most dangerous period in human life
lies between birth and the age of twelve. It is the time when errors and vices spring up, while
as yet there is no means to destroy them; when the means of destruction are ready, the roots
have gone too deep to be pulled up. If the infant sprang at one bound from its mother's breast
to the age of reason, the present type of education would be quite suitable, but its natural
growth calls for quite a different training. The mind should be left undisturbed till its faculties
have developed; for while it is blind it cannot see the torch you offer it, nor can it follow
through the vast expanse of ideas a path so faintly traced by reason that the best eyes can
scarcely follow it.

Therefore the education of the earliest years should be merely negative. It consists, not in
teaching virtue or truth, but in preserving the heart from vice and from the spirit of error.
If only you could let well alone, and get others to follow your example; if you could bring
your scholar to the age of twelve strong and healthy, but unable to tell his right hand from
his left, the eyes of his understanding would be open to reason as soon as you began to teach
him. Free from prejudices and free from habits, there would be nothing in him to counteract
the effects of your labours. In your hands he would soon become the wisest of men; by doing
nothing to begin with, you would end with a prodigy of education.

Reverse the usual practice and you will almost always do right. Fathers and teachers who want
to make the child, not a child but a man of learning, think it never too soon to scold, correct,
reprove, threaten, bribe, teach, and reason. Do better than they; be reasonable, and do not
reason with your pupil, more especially do not try to make him approve what he dislikes; for
if reason is always connected with disagreeable matters, you make it distasteful to him, you
discredit it at an early age in a mind not yet ready to understand it. Exercise his body, his
limbs, his senses, his strength, but keep his mind idle as long as you can. Distrust all opinions
which appear before the judgment to discriminate between them. Restrain and ward off strange
impressions; and to prevent the birth of evil do not hasten to do well, for goodness is only
possible when enlightened by reason. Regard all delays as so much time gained; you have achieved
much, you approach the boundary without loss. Leave childhood to ripen in your children. In
a word, beware of giving anything they need to-day if it can be deferred without danger to
to-morrow.

There is another point to be considered which confirms the suitability of this method: it is
the child's individual bent, which must be thoroughly known before we can choose the fittest
moral training. Every mind has its own form, in accordance with which it must be controlled;
and the success of the pains taken depends largely on the fact that he is controlled in this
way and no other.  Oh, wise man, take time to observe nature; watch your scholar well before
you say a word to him; first leave the germ of his character free to show itself, do not constrain
him in anything, the better to see him as he really is. Do you think this time of liberty is
wasted? On the contrary, your scholar will be the better employed, for this is the way you
yourself will learn not to lose a single moment when time is of more value. If, however, you
begin to act before you know what to do, you act at random; you may make mistakes, and must
retrace your steps; your haste to reach your goal will only take you further from it. Do not
imitate the miser who loses much lest he should lose a little. Sacrifice a little time in early
childhood, and it will be repaid you with usury when your scholar is older. The wise physician
does not hastily give prescriptions at first sight, but he studies the constitution of the
sick man before he prescribes anything; the treatment is begun later, but the patient is cured,
while the hasty doctor kills him.

But where shall we find a place for our child so as to bring him up as a senseless being, an
automaton? Shall we keep him in the moon, or on a desert island? Shall we remove him from human
society? Will he not always have around him the sight and the pattern of the passions of other
people? Will he never see children of his own age?  Will he not see his parents, his neighbours,
his nurse, his governess, his man-servant, his tutor himself, who after all will not be an
angel? Here we have a real and serious objection. But did I tell you that an education according
to nature would be an easy task? Oh, men! is it my fault that you have made all good things
difficult? I admit that I am aware of these difficulties; perhaps they are insuperable; but
nevertheless it is certain that we do to some extent avoid them by trying to do so. I am showing
what we should try to attain, I do not say we can attain it, but I do say that whoever comes
nearest to it is nearest to success.

Remember you must be a man yourself before you try to train a man; you yourself must set the
pattern he shall copy. While the child is still unconscious there is time to prepare his surroundings,
so that nothing shall strike his eye but what is fit for his sight. Gain the respect of every
one, begin to win their hearts, so that they may try to please you. You will not be master
of the child if you cannot control every one about him; and this authority will never suffice
unless it rests upon respect for your goodness. There is no question of squandering one's means
and giving money right and left; I never knew money win love. You must neither be harsh nor
niggardly, nor must you merely pity misery when you can relieve it; but in vain will you open
your purse if you do not open your heart along with it, the hearts of others will always be
closed to you. You must give your own time, attention, affection, your very self; for whatever
you do, people always perceive that your money is not you. There are proofs of kindly interest
which produce more results and are really more useful than any gift; how many of the sick and
wretched have more need of comfort than of charity; how many of the oppressed need protection
rather than money? Reconcile those who are at strife, prevent lawsuits; incline children to
duty, fathers to kindness; promote happy marriages; prevent annoyances; freely use the credit
of your pupil's parents on behalf of the weak who cannot obtain justice, the weak who are oppressed
by the strong. Be just, human, kindly. Do not give alms alone, give charity; works of mercy
do more than money for the relief of suffering; love others and they will love you; serve them
and they will serve you; be their brother and they will be your children.

This is one reason why I want to bring up Emile in the country, far from those miserable lacqueys,
the most degraded of men except their masters; far from the vile morals of the town, whose
gilded surface makes them seductive and contagious to children; while the vices of peasants,
unadorned and in their naked grossness, are more fitted to repel than to seduce, when there
is no motive for imitating them.

In the village a tutor will have much more control over the things he wishes to show the child;
his reputation, his words, his example, will have a weight they would never have in the town;
he is of use to every one, so every one is eager to oblige him, to win his esteem, to appeal
before the disciple what the master would have him be; if vice is not corrected, public scandal
is at least avoided, which is all that our present purpose requires.

Cease to blame others for your own faults; children are corrupted less by what they see than
by your own teaching. With your endless preaching, moralising, and pedantry, for one idea you
give your scholars, believing it to be good, you give them twenty more which are good for nothing;
you are full of what is going on in your own minds, and you fail to see the effect you produce
on theirs. In the continual flow of words with which you overwhelm them, do you think there
is none which they get hold of in a wrong sense? Do you suppose they do not make their own
comments on your long-winded explanations, that they do not find material for the construction
of a system they can understand--one which they will use against you when they get the chance?

Listen to a little fellow who has just been under instruction; let him chatter freely, ask
questions, and talk at his ease, and you will be surprised to find the strange forms your arguments
have assumed in his mind; he confuses everything, and turns everything topsy-turvy; you are
vexed and grieved by his unforeseen objections; he reduces you to be silent yourself or to
silence him: and what can he think of silence in one who is so fond of talking? If ever he
gains this advantage and is aware of it, farewell education; from that moment all is lost;
he is no longer trying to learn, he is trying to refute you.

Zealous teachers, be simple, sensible, and reticent; be in no hurry to act unless to prevent
the actions of others. Again and again I say, reject, if it may be, a good lesson for fear
of giving a bad one. Beware of playing the tempter in this world, which nature intended as
an earthly paradise for men, and do not attempt to give the innocent child the knowledge of
good and evil; since you cannot prevent the child learning by what he sees outside himself,
restrict your own efforts to impressing those examples on his mind in the form best suited for him.

The explosive passions produce a great effect upon the child when he sees them; their outward
expression is very marked; he is struck by this and his attention is arrested. Anger especially
is so noisy in its rage that it is impossible not to perceive it if you are within reach. You
need not ask yourself whether this is an opportunity for a pedagogue to frame a fine disquisition.
What! no fine disquisition, nothing, not a word! Let the child come to you; impressed by what
he has seen, he will not fail to ask you questions. The answer is easy; it is drawn from the
very things which have appealed to his senses. He sees a flushed face, flashing eyes, a threatening
gesture, he hears cries; everything shows that the body is ill at ease. Tell him plainly, without
affectation or mystery, "This poor man is ill, he is in a fever." You may take the opportunity
of giving him in a few words some idea of disease and its effects; for that too belongs to
nature, and is one of the bonds of necessity which he must recognise. By means of this idea,
which is not false in itself, may he not early acquire a certain aversion to giving way to
excessive passions, which he regards as diseases; and do you not think that such a notion,
given at the right moment, will produce a more wholesome effect than the most tedious sermon?
But consider the after effects of this idea; you have authority, if ever you find it necessary,
to treat the rebellious child as a sick child; to keep him in his room, in bed if need be,
to diet him, to make him afraid of his growing vices, to make him hate and dread them without
ever regarding as a punishment the strict measures you will perhaps have to use for his recovery.
If it happens that you yourself in a moment's heat depart from the calm and self-control which
you should aim at, do not try to conceal your fault, but tell him frankly, with a gentle reproach,
"My dear, you have hurt me."

Moreover, it is a matter of great importance that no notice should be taken in his presence
of the quaint sayings which result from the simplicity of the ideas in which he is brought
up, nor should they be quoted in a way he can understand. A foolish laugh may destroy six months'
work and do irreparable damage for life. I cannot repeat too often that to control the child
one must often control oneself.

I picture my little Emile at the height of a dispute between two neighbours going up to the
fiercest of them and saying in a tone of pity, "You are ill, I am very sorry for you." This
speech will no doubt have its effect on the spectators and perhaps on the disputants. Without
laughter, scolding, or praise I should take him away, willing or no, before he could see this
result, or at least before he could think about it; and I should make haste to turn his thoughts
to other things, so that he would soon forget all about it.

I do not propose to enter into every detail, but only to explain general rules and to give
illustrations in cases of difficulty. I think it is impossible to train a child up to the age
of twelve in the midst of society, without giving him some idea of the relations between one
man and another, and of the morality of human actions. It is enough to delay the development
of these ideas as long as possible, and when they can no longer be avoided to limit them to
present needs, so that he may neither think himself master of everything nor do harm to others
without knowing or caring. There are calm and gentle characters which can be led a long way
in their first innocence without any danger; but there are also stormy dispositions whose passions
develop early; you must hasten to make men of them lest you should have to keep them in chains.

Our first duties are to ourselves; our first feelings are centred on self; all our instincts
are at first directed to our own preservation and our own welfare. Thus the first notion of
justice springs not from what we owe to others, but from what is due to us.  Here is another
error in popular methods of education. If you talk to children of their duties, and not of
their rights, you are beginning at the wrong end, and telling them what they cannot understand,
what cannot be of any interest to them.

If I had to train a child such as I have just described, I should say to myself, "A child never
attacks people, [Footnote: A child should never be allowed to play with grown-up people as
if they were his inferiors, nor even as if they were only his equals. If he ventured to strike
any one in earnest, were it only the footman, were it the hangman himself, let the sufferer
return his blows with interest, so that he will not want to do it again. I have seen silly
women inciting children to rebellion, encouraging them to hit people, allowing themselves to
be beaten, and laughing at the harmless blows, never thinking that those blows were in intention
the blows of a murderer, and that the child who desires to beat people now will desire to kill
them when he is grown up.] only things; and he soon learns by experience to respect those older
and stronger than himself. Things, however, do not defend themselves. Therefore the first idea
he needs is not that of liberty but of property, and that he may get this idea he must have
something of his own." It is useless to enumerate his clothes, furniture, and playthings; although
he uses these he knows not how or why he has come by them. To tell him they were given him
is little better, for giving implies having; so here is property before his own, and it is
the principle of property that you want to teach him; moreover, giving is a convention, and
the child as yet has no idea of conventions. I hope my reader will note, in this and many other
cases, how people think they have taught children thoroughly, when they have only thrust on
them words which have no intelligible meaning to them. [Footnote: This is why most children
want to take back what they have given, and cry if they cannot get it. They do not do this
when once they know what a gift is; only they are more careful about giving things away.]

We must therefore go back to the origin of property, for that is where the first idea of it
must begin. The child, living in the country, will have got some idea of field work; eyes and
leisure suffice for that, and he will have both. In every age, and especially in childhood,
we want to create, to copy, to produce, to give all the signs of power and activity. He will
hardly have seen the gardener at work twice, sowing, planting, and growing vegetables, before
he will want to garden himself.

According to the principles I have already laid down, I shall not thwart him; on the contrary,
I shall approve of his plan, share his hobby, and work with him, not for his pleasure but my
own; at least, so he thinks; I shall be his under-gardener, and dig the ground for him till
his arms are strong enough to do it; he will take possession of it by planting a bean, and
this is surely a more sacred possession, and one more worthy of respect, than that of Nunes
Balboa, who took possession of South America in the name of the King of Spain, by planting
his banner on the coast of the Southern Sea.

We water the beans every day, we watch them coming up with the greatest delight. Day by day
I increase this delight by saying, "Those belong to you." To explain what that word "belong"
means, I show him how he has given his time, his labour, and his trouble, his very self to
it; that in this ground there is a part of himself which he can claim against all the world,
as he could withdraw his arm from the hand of another man who wanted to keep it against his will.

One fine day he hurries up with his watering-can in his hand. What a scene of woe! Alas! all
the beans are pulled up, the soil is dug over, you can scarcely find the place. Oh! what has
become of my labour, my work, the beloved fruits of my care and effort? Who has stolen my property!
Who has taken my beans? The young heart revolts; the first feeling of injustice brings its
sorrow and bitterness; tears come in torrents, the unhappy child fills the air with cries and
groans, I share his sorrow and anger; we look around us, we make inquiries. At last we discover
that the gardener did it. We send for him.

But we are greatly mistaken. The gardener, hearing our complaint, begins to complain louder
than we:

What, gentlemen, was it you who spoilt my work! I had sown some Maltese melons; the seed was
given me as something quite out of the common, and I meant to give you a treat when they were
ripe; but you have planted your miserable beans and destroyed my melons, which were coming
up so nicely, and I can never get any more. You have behaved very badly to me and you have
deprived yourselves of the pleasure of eating most delicious melons.

JEAN JACQUES. My poor Robert, you must forgive us. You had given your labour and your pains
to it. I see we were wrong to spoil your work, but we will send to Malta for some more seed
for you, and we will never dig the ground again without finding out if some one else has been
beforehand with us.

ROBERT. Well, gentlemen, you need not trouble yourselves, for there is no more waste ground.
I dig what my father tilled; every one does the same, and all the land you see has been occupied
time out of mind.

EMILE. Mr. Robert, do people often lose the seed of Maltese melons?

ROBERT. No indeed, sir; we do not often find such silly little gentlemen as you. No one meddles
with his neighbour's garden; every one respects other people's work so that his own may be safe.

EMILE. But I have not got a garden.

ROBERT. I don't care; if you spoil mine I won't let you walk in it, for you see I do not mean
to lose my labour.

JEAN JACQUES. Could not we suggest an arrangement with this kind Robert? Let him give my young
friend and myself a corner of his garden to cultivate, on condition that he has half the crop.

ROBERT. You may have it free. But remember I shall dig up your beans if you touch my melons.

In this attempt to show how a child may be taught certain primitive ideas we see how the notion
of property goes back naturally to the right of the first occupier to the results of his work.
That is plain and simple, and quite within the child's grasp. From that to the rights of property
and exchange there is but a step, after which you must stop short.

You also see that an explanation which I can give in writing in a couple of pages may take
a year in practice, for in the course of moral ideas we cannot advance too slowly, nor plant
each step too firmly. Young teacher, pray consider this example, and remember that your lessons
should always be in deeds rather than words, for children soon forget what they say or what
is said to them, but not what they have done nor what has been done to them.

Such teaching should be given, as I have said, sooner or later, as the scholar's disposition,
gentle or turbulent, requires it. The way of using it is unmistakable; but to omit no matter
of importance in a difficult business let us take another example.

Your ill-tempered child destroys everything he touches. Do not vex yourself; put anything he
can spoil out of his reach. He breaks the things he is using; do not be in a hurry to give
him more; let him feel the want of them. He breaks the windows of his room; let the wind blow
upon him night and day, and do not be afraid of his catching cold; it is better to catch cold
than to be reckless. Never complain of the inconvenience he causes you, but let him feel it
first. At last you will have the windows mended without saying anything. He breaks them again;
then change your plan; tell him dryly and without anger, "The windows are mine, I took pains
to have them put in, and I mean to keep them safe." Then you will shut him up in a dark place
without a window. At this unexpected proceeding he cries and howls; no one heeds. Soon he gets
tired and changes his tone; he laments and sighs; a servant appears, the rebel begs to be let
out. Without seeking any excuse for refusing, the servant merely says, "I, too, have windows
to keep," and goes away. At last, when the child has been there several hours, long enough
to get very tired of it, long enough to make an impression on his memory, some one suggests
to him that he should offer to make terms with you, so that you may set him free and he will
never break windows again.  That is just what he wants. He will send and ask you to come and
see him; you will come, he will suggest his plan, and you will agree to it at once, saying,
"That is a very good idea; it will suit us both; why didn't you think of it sooner?" Then without
asking for any affirmation or confirmation of his promise, you will embrace him joyfully and
take him back at once to his own room, considering this agreement as sacred as if he had confirmed
it by a formal oath. What idea do you think he will form from these proceedings, as to the
fulfilment of a promise and its usefulness? If I am not greatly mistaken, there is not a child
upon earth, unless he is utterly spoilt already, who could resist this treatment, or one who
would ever dream of breaking windows again on purpose. Follow out the whole train of thought.
The naughty little fellow hardly thought when he was making a hole for his beans that he was
hewing out a cell in which his own knowledge would soon imprison him. [Footnote: Moreover if
the duty of keeping his word were not established in the child's mind by its own utility, the
child's growing consciousness would soon impress it on him as a law of conscience, as an innate
principle, only requiring suitable experiences for its development.  This first outline is
not sketched by man, it is engraved on the heart by the author of all justice. Take away the
primitive law of contract and the obligation imposed by contract and there is nothing left
of human society but vanity and empty show. He who only keeps his word because it is to his
own profit is hardly more pledged than if he had given no promise at all. This principle is
of the utmost importance, and deserves to be thoroughly studied, for man is now beginning to
be at war with himself.]

We are now in the world of morals, the door to vice is open. Deceit and falsehood are born
along with conventions and duties. As soon as we can do what we ought not to do, we try to
hide what we ought not to have done. As soon as self-interest makes us give a promise, a greater
interest may make us break it; it is merely a question of doing it with impunity; we naturally
take refuge in concealment and falsehood. As we have not been able to prevent vice, we must
punish it. The sorrows of life begin with its mistakes.

I have already said enough to show that children should never receive punishment merely as
such; it should always come as the natural consequence of their fault. Thus you will not exclaim
against their falsehood, you will not exactly punish them for lying, but you will arrange that
all the ill effects of lying, such as not being believed when we speak the truth, or being
accused of what we have not done in spite of our protests, shall fall on their heads when they
have told a lie. But let us explain what lying means to the child.

There are two kinds of lies; one concerns an accomplished fact, the other concerns a future
duty. The first occurs when we falsely deny or assert that we did or did not do something,
or, to put it in general terms, when we knowingly say what is contrary to facts. The other
occurs when we promise what we do not mean to perform, or, in general terms, when we profess
an intention which we do not really mean to carry out. These two kinds of lie are sometimes
found in combination, [Footnote: Thus the guilty person, accused of some evil deed, defends
himself by asserting that he is a good man. His statement is false in itself and false in its
application to the matter in hand.] but their differences are my present business.

He who feels the need of help from others, he who is constantly experiencing their kindness,
has nothing to gain by deceiving them; it is plainly to his advantage that they should see
things as they are, lest they should mistake his interests. It is therefore plain that lying
with regard to actual facts is not natural to children, but lying is made necessary by the
law of obedience; since obedience is disagreeable, children disobey as far as they can in secret,
and the present good of avoiding punishment or reproof outweighs the remoter good of speaking
the truth. Under a free and natural education why should your child lie? What has he to conceal
from you? You do not thwart him, you do not punish him, you demand nothing from him. Why should
he not tell everything to you as simply as to his little playmate? He cannot see anything more
risky in the one course than in the other.

The lie concerning duty is even less natural, since promises to do or refrain from doing are
conventional agreements which are outside the state of nature and detract from our liberty.
Moreover, all promises made by children are in themselves void; when they pledge themselves
they do not know what they are doing, for their narrow vision cannot look beyond the present.
A child can hardly lie when he makes a promise; for he is only thinking how he can get out
of the present difficulty, any means which has not an immediate result is the same to him;
when he promises for the future he promises nothing, and his imagination is as yet incapable
of projecting him into the future while he lives in the present. If he could escape a whipping
or get a packet of sweets by promising to throw himself out of the window to-morrow, he would
promise on the spot. This is why the law disregards all promises made by minors, and when fathers
and teachers are stricter and demand that promises shall be kept, it is only when the promise
refers to something the child ought to do even if he had made no promise.

The child cannot lie when he makes a promise, for he does not know what he is doing when he
makes his promise. The case is different when he breaks his promise, which is a sort of retrospective
falsehood; for he clearly remembers making the promise, but he fails to see the importance
of keeping it. Unable to look into the future, he cannot foresee the results of things, and
when he breaks his promises he does nothing contrary to his stage of reasoning.

Children's lies are therefore entirely the work of their teachers, and to teach them to speak
the truth is nothing less than to teach them the art of lying. In your zeal to rule, control,
and teach them, you never find sufficient means at your disposal. You wish to gain fresh influence
over their minds by baseless maxims, by unreasonable precepts; and you would rather they knew
their lessons and told lies, than leave them ignorant and truthful.

We, who only give our scholars lessons in practice, who prefer to have them good rather than
clever, never demand the truth lest they should conceal it, and never claim any promise lest
they should be tempted to break it. If some mischief has been done in my absence and I do not
know who did it, I shall take care not to accuse Emile, nor to say, "Did you do it?" [Footnote:
Nothing could be more indiscreet than such a question, especially if the child is guilty. Then
if he thinks you know what he has done, he will think you are setting a trap for him, and this
idea can only set him against you. If he thinks you do not know, he will say to himself, "Why
should I make my fault known?" And here we have the first temptation to falsehood as the direct
result of your foolish question.] For in so doing what should I do but teach him to deny it?
If his difficult temperament compels me to make some agreement with him, I will take good care
that the suggestion always comes from him, never from me; that when he undertakes anything
he has always a present and effective interest in fulfilling his promise, and if he ever fails
this lie will bring down on him all the unpleasant consequences which he sees arising from
the natural order of things, and not from his tutor's vengeance. But far from having recourse
to such cruel measures, I feel almost certain that Emile will not know for many years what
it is to lie, and that when he does find out, he will be astonished and unable to understand
what can be the use of it. It is quite clear that the less I make his welfare dependent on
the will or the opinions of others, the less is it to his interest to lie.

When we are in no hurry to teach there is no hurry to demand, and we can take our time, so
as to demand nothing except under fitting conditions. Then the child is training himself, in
so far as he is not being spoilt. But when a fool of a tutor, who does not know how to set
about his business, is always making his pupil promise first this and then that, without discrimination,
choice, or proportion, the child is puzzled and overburdened with all these promises, and neglects,
forgets or even scorns them, and considering them as so many empty phrases he makes a game
of making and breaking promises.  Would you have him keep his promise faithfully, be moderate
in your claims upon him.

The detailed treatment I have just given to lying may be applied in many respects to all the
other duties imposed upon children, whereby these duties are made not only hateful but impracticable.
For the sake of a show of preaching virtue you make them love every vice; you instil these
vices by forbidding them. Would you have them pious, you take them to church till they are
sick of it; you teach them to gabble prayers until they long for the happy time when they will
not have to pray to God. To teach them charity you make them give alms as if you scorned to
give yourself. It is not the child, but the master, who should give; however much he loves
his pupil he should vie with him for this honour; he should make him think that he is too young
to deserve it. Alms-giving is the deed of a man who can measure the worth of his gift and the
needs of his fellow-men.  The child, who knows nothing of these, can have no merit in giving;
he gives without charity, without kindness; he is almost ashamed to give, for, to judge by
your practice and his own, he thinks it is only children who give, and that there is no need
for charity when we are grown up.

Observe that the only things children are set to give are things of which they do not know
the value, bits of metal carried in their pockets for which they have no further use. A child
would rather give a hundred coins than one cake. But get this prodigal giver to distribute
what is dear to him, his toys, his sweets, his own lunch, and we shall soon see if you have
made him really generous.

People try yet another way; they soon restore what he gave to the child, so that he gets used
to giving everything which he knows will come back to him. I have scarcely seen generosity
in children except of these two types, giving what is of no use to them, or what they expect
to get back again. "Arrange things," says Locke. "so that experience may convince them that
the most generous giver gets the biggest share." That is to make the child superficially generous
but really greedy. He adds that "children will thus form the habit of liberality." Yes, a usurer's
liberality, which expects cent. per cent. But when it is a question of real giving, good-bye
to the habit; when they do not get things back, they will not give. It is the habit of the
mind, not of the hands, that needs watching. All the other virtues taught to children are like
this, and to preach these baseless virtues you waste their youth in sorrow. What a sensible
sort of education!

Teachers, have done with these shams; be good and kind; let your example sink into your scholars'
memories till they are old enough to take it to heart. Rather than hasten to demand deeds of
charity from my pupil I prefer to perform such deeds in his presence, even depriving him of
the means of imitating me, as an honour beyond his years; for it is of the utmost importance
that he should not regard a man's duties as merely those of a child. If when he sees me help
the poor he asks me about it, and it is time to reply to his questions, [Footnote: It must
be understood that I do not answer his questions when he wants; that would be to subject myself
to his will and to place myself in the most dangerous state of dependence that ever a tutor
was in.] I shall say, "My dear boy, the rich only exist, through the good-will of the poor,
so they have promised to feed those who have not enough to live on, either in goods or labour."
"Then you promised to do this?" "Certainly; I am only master of the wealth that passes through
my hands on the condition attached to its ownership."

After this talk (and we have seen how a child may be brought to understand it) another than
Emile would be tempted to imitate me and behave like a rich man; in such a case I should at
least take care that it was done without ostentation; I would rather he robbed me of my privilege
and hid himself to give. It is a fraud suitable to his age, and the only one I could forgive
in him.

I know that all these imitative virtues are only the virtues of a monkey, and that a good action
is only morally good when it is done as such and not because of others. But at an age when
the heart does not yet feel anything, you must make children copy the deeds you wish to grow
into habits, until they can do them with understanding and for the love of what is good. Man
imitates, as do the beasts. The love of imitating is well regulated by nature; in society it
becomes a vice. The monkey imitates man, whom he fears, and not the other beasts, which he
scorns; he thinks what is done by his betters must be good. Among ourselves, our harlequins
imitate all that is good to degrade it and bring it into ridicule; knowing their owners' baseness
they try to equal what is better than they are, or they strive to imitate what they admire,
and their bad taste appears in their choice of models, they would rather deceive others or
win applause for their own talents than become wiser or better.  Imitation has its roots in
our desire to escape from ourselves. If I succeed in my undertaking, Emile will certainly have
no such wish.  So we must dispense with any seeming good that might arise from it.

Examine your rules of education; you will find them all topsy-turvy, especially in all that
concerns virtue and morals. The only moral lesson which is suited for a child--the most important
lesson for every time of life--is this: "Never hurt anybody." The very rule of well-doing,
if not subordinated to this rule, is dangerous, false, and contradictory. Who is there who
does no good? Every one does some good, the wicked as well as the righteous; he makes one happy
at the cost of the misery of a hundred, and hence spring all our misfortunes. The noblest virtues
are negative, they are also the most difficult, for they make little show, and do not even
make room for that pleasure so dear to the heart of man, the thought that some one is pleased
with us. If there be a man who does no harm to his neighbours, what good must he have accomplished!
What a bold heart, what a strong character it needs! It is not in talking about this maxim,
but in trying to practise it, that we discover both its greatness and its difficulty. [Footnote:
The precept "Never hurt anybody," implies the greatest possible independence of human society;
for in the social state one man's good is another man's evil. This relation is part of the
nature of things; it is inevitable. You may apply this test to man in society and to the hermit
to discover which is best. A distinguished author says, "None but the wicked can live alone."
I say, "None but the good can live alone." This proposition, if less sententious, is truer
and more logical than the other. If the wicked were alone, what evil would he do? It is among
his fellows that he lays his snares for others. If they wish to apply this argument to the
man of property, my answer is to be found in the passage to which this note is appended.]

This will give you some slight idea of the precautions I would have you take in giving children
instruction which cannot always be refused without risk to themselves or others, or the far
greater risk of the formation of bad habits, which would be difficult to correct later on;
but be sure this necessity will not often arise with children who are properly brought up,
for they cannot possibly become rebellious, spiteful, untruthful, or greedy, unless the seeds
of these vices are sown in their hearts. What I have just said applies therefore rather to
the exception than the rule. But the oftener children have the opportunity of quitting their
proper condition, and contracting the vices of men, the oftener will these exceptions arise.
Those who are brought up in the world must receive more precocious instruction than those who
are brought up in retirement. So this solitary education would be preferable, even if it did
nothing more than leave childhood time to ripen.

There is quite another class of exceptions: those so gifted by nature that they rise above
the level of their age. As there are men who never get beyond infancy, so there are others
who are never, so to speak, children, they are men almost from birth. The difficulty is that
these cases are very rare, very difficult to distinguish; while every mother, who knows that
a child may be a prodigy, is convinced that her child is that one. They go further; they mistake
the common signs of growth for marks of exceptional talent. Liveliness, sharp sayings, romping,
amusing simplicity, these are the characteristic marks of this age, and show that the child
is a child indeed. Is it strange that a child who is encouraged to chatter and allowed to say
anything, who is restrained neither by consideration nor convention, should chance to say something
clever?  Were he never to hit the mark, his case would be stranger than that of the astrologer
who, among a thousand errors, occasionally predicts the truth. "They lie so often," said Henry
IV., "that at last they say what is true." If you want to say something clever, you have only
to talk long enough. May Providence watch over those fine folk who have no other claim to social
distinction.

The finest thoughts may spring from a child's brain, or rather the best words may drop from
his lips, just as diamonds of great worth may fall into his hands, while neither the thoughts
nor the diamonds are his own; at that age neither can be really his. The child's sayings do
not mean to him what they mean to us, the ideas he attaches to them are different. His ideas,
if indeed he has any ideas at all, have neither order nor connection; there is nothing sure,
nothing certain, in his thoughts. Examine your so-called prodigy. Now and again you will discover
in him extreme activity of mind and extraordinary clearness of thought. More often this same
mind will seem slack and spiritless, as if wrapped in mist.  Sometimes he goes before you,
sometimes he will not stir. One moment you would call him a genius, another a fool. You would
be mistaken in both; he is a child, an eaglet who soars aloft for a moment, only to drop back
into the nest.

Treat him, therefore, according to his age, in spite of appearances, and beware of exhausting
his strength by over-much exercise. If the young brain grows warm and begins to bubble, let
it work freely, but do not heat it any further, lest it lose its goodness, and when the first
gases have been given off, collect and compress the rest so that in after years they may turn
to life-giving heat and real energy. If not, your time and your pains will be wasted, you will
destroy your own work, and after foolishly intoxicating yourself with these heady fumes, you
will have nothing left but an insipid and worthless wine.

Silly children grow into ordinary men. I know no generalisation more certain than this. It
is the most difficult thing in the world to distinguish between genuine stupidity, and that
apparent and deceitful stupidity which is the sign of a strong character. At first sight it
seems strange that the two extremes should have the same outward signs; and yet it may well
be so, for at an age when man has as yet no true ideas, the whole difference between the genius
and the rest consists in this: the latter only take in false ideas, while the former, finding
nothing but false ideas, receives no ideas at all. In this he resembles the fool; the one is
fit for nothing, the other finds nothing fit for him. The only way of distinguishing between
them depends upon chance, which may offer the genius some idea which he can understand, while
the fool is always the same. As a child, the young Cato was taken for an idiot by his parents;
he was obstinate and silent, and that was all they perceived in him; it was only in Sulla's
ante-chamber that his uncle discovered what was in him. Had he never found his way there, he
might have passed for a fool till he reached the age of reason. Had Caesar never lived, perhaps
this same Cato, who discerned his fatal genius, and foretold his great schemes, would have
passed for a dreamer all his days. Those who judge children hastily are apt to be mistaken;
they are often more childish than the child himself. I knew a middle-aged man, [Footnote: The
Abbe de Condillac] whose friendship I esteemed an honour, who was reckoned a fool by his family.
All at once he made his name as a philosopher, and I have no doubt posterity will give him
a high place among the greatest thinkers and the profoundest metaphysicians of his day.

Hold childhood in reverence, and do not be in any hurry to judge it for good or ill. Leave
exceptional cases to show themselves, let their qualities be tested and confirmed, before special
methods are adopted. Give nature time to work before you take over her business, lest you interfere
with her dealings. You assert that you know the value of time and are afraid to waste it. You
fail to perceive that it is a greater waste of time to use it ill than to do nothing, and that
a child ill taught is further from virtue than a child who has learnt nothing at all. You are
afraid to see him spending his early years doing nothing. What! is it nothing to be happy,
nothing to run and jump all day? He will never be so busy again all his life long.  Plato,
in his Republic, which is considered so stern, teaches the children only through festivals,
games, songs, and amusements. It seems as if he had accomplished his purpose when he had taught
them to be happy; and Seneca, speaking of the Roman lads in olden days, says, "They were always
on their feet, they were never taught anything which kept them sitting." Were they any the
worse for it in manhood? Do not be afraid, therefore, of this so-called idleness.  What would
you think of a man who refused to sleep lest he should waste part of his life? You would say,
"He is mad; he is not enjoying his life, he is robbing himself of part of it; to avoid sleep
he is hastening his death." Remember that these two cases are alike, and that childhood is
the sleep of reason.

The apparent ease with which children learn is their ruin. You fail to see that this very facility
proves that they are not learning. Their shining, polished brain reflects, as in a mirror,
the things you show them, but nothing sinks in. The child remembers the words and the ideas
are reflected back; his hearers understand them, but to him they are meaningless.

Although memory and reason are wholly different faculties, the one does not really develop
apart from the other. Before the age of reason the child receives images, not ideas; and there
is this difference between them: images are merely the pictures of external objects, while
ideas are notions about those objects determined by their relations. An image when it is recalled
may exist by itself in the mind, but every idea implies other ideas. When we image we merely
perceive, when we reason we compare. Our sensations are merely passive, our notions or ideas
spring from an active principle which judges. The proof of this will be given later.

I maintain, therefore, that as children are incapable of judging, they have no true memory.
They retain sounds, form, sensation, but rarely ideas, and still more rarely relations. You
tell me they acquire some rudiments of geometry, and you think you prove your case; not so,
it is mine you prove; you show that far from being able to reason themselves, children are
unable to retain the reasoning of others; for if you follow the method of these little geometricians
you will see they only retain the exact impression of the figure and the terms of the demonstration.
They cannot meet the slightest new objection; if the figure is reversed they can do nothing.
All their knowledge is on the sensation-level, nothing has penetrated to their understanding.
Their memory is little better than their other powers, for they always have to learn over again,
when they are grown up, what they learnt as children.

I am far from thinking, however, that children have no sort of reason. [Footnote: I have noticed
again and again that it is impossible in writing a lengthy work to use the same words always
in the same sense. There is no language rich enough to supply terms and expressions sufficient
for the modifications of our ideas. The method of defining every term and constantly substituting
the definition for the term defined looks well, but it is impracticable.  For how can we escape
from our vicious circle? Definitions would be all very well if we did not use words in the
making of them. In spite of this I am convinced that even in our poor language we can make
our meaning clear, not by always using words in the same sense, but by taking care hat every
time we use a word the sense in which we use it is sufficiently indicated by the sense of the
context, so that each sentence in which the word occurs acts as a sort of definition. Sometimes
I say children are incapable of reasoning. Sometimes I say they reason cleverly. I must admit
that my words are often contradictory, but I do not think there is any contradiction in my
ideas.] On the contrary, I think they reason very well with regard to things that affect their
actual and sensible well-being. But people are mistaken as to the extent of their information,
and they attribute to them knowledge they do not possess, and make them reason about things
they cannot understand. Another mistake is to try to turn their attention to matters which
do not concern them in the least, such as their future interest, their happiness when they
are grown up, the opinion people will have of them when they are men--terms which are absolutely
meaningless when addressed to creatures who are entirely without foresight. But all the forced
studies of these poor little wretches are directed towards matters utterly remote from their
minds. You may judge how much attention they can give to them.

The pedagogues, who make a great display of the teaching they give their pupils, are paid to
say just the opposite; yet their actions show that they think just as I do. For what do they
teach? Words! words! words! Among the various sciences they boast of teaching their scholars,
they take good care never to choose those which might be really useful to them, for then they
would be compelled to deal with things and would fail utterly; the sciences they choose are
those we seem to know when we know their technical terms--heraldry, geography, chronology,
languages, etc., studies so remote from man, and even more remote from the child, that it is
a wonder if he can ever make any use of any part of them.

You will be surprised to find that I reckon the study of languages among the useless lumber
of education; but you must remember that I am speaking of the studies of the earliest years,
and whatever you may say, I do not believe any child under twelve or fifteen ever really acquired
two languages.

If the study of languages were merely the study of words, that is, of the symbols by which
language expresses itself, then this might be a suitable study for children; but languages,
as they change the symbols, also modify the ideas which the symbols express. Minds are formed
by language, thoughts take their colour from its ideas. Reason alone is common to all. Every
language has its own form, a difference which may be partly cause and partly effect of differences
in national character; this conjecture appears to be confirmed by the fact that in every nation
under the sun speech follows the changes of manners, and is preserved or altered along with them.

By use the child acquires one of these different forms, and it is the only language he retains
till the age of reason. To acquire two languages he must be able to compare their ideas, and
how can he compare ideas he can barely understand? Everything may have a thousand meanings
to him, but each idea can only have one form, so he can only learn one language. You assure
me he learns several languages; I deny it. I have seen those little prodigies who are supposed
to speak half a dozen languages. I have heard them speak first in German, then in Latin, French,
or Italian; true, they used half a dozen different vocabularies, but they always spoke German.
In a word, you may give children as many synonyms as you like; it is not their language but
their words that you change; they will never have but one language.

To conceal their deficiencies teachers choose the dead languages, in which we have no longer
any judges whose authority is beyond dispute. The familiar use of these tongues disappeared
long ago, so they are content to imitate what they find in books, and they call that talking.
If the master's Greek and Latin is such poor stuff, what about the children? They have scarcely
learnt their primer by heart, without understanding a word of it, when they are set to translate
a French speech into Latin words; then when they are more advanced they piece together a few
phrases of Cicero for prose or a few lines of Vergil for verse. Then they think they can speak
Latin, and who will contradict them?

In any study whatsoever the symbols are of no value without the idea of the things symbolised.
Yet the education of the child in confined to those symbols, while no one ever succeeds in
making him understand the thing signified. You think you are teaching him what the world is
like; he is only learning the map; he is taught the names of towns, countries, rivers, which
have no existence for him except on the paper before him. I remember seeing a geography somewhere
which began with: "What is the world?"--"A sphere of cardboard." That is the child's geography.
I maintain that after two years' work with the globe and cosmography, there is not a single
ten-year-old child who could find his way from Paris to Saint Denis by the help of the rules
he has learnt. I maintain that not one of these children could find his way by the map about
the paths on his father's estate without getting lost. These are the young doctors who can
tell us the position of Pekin, Ispahan, Mexico, and every country in the world.

You tell me the child must be employed on studies which only need eyes. That may be; but if
there are any such studies, they are unknown to me.

It is a still more ridiculous error to set them to study history, which is considered within
their grasp because it is merely a collection of facts. But what is meant by this word "fact"?
Do you think the relations which determine the facts of history are so easy to grasp that the
corresponding ideas are easily developed in the child's mind! Do you think that a real knowledge
of events can exist apart from the knowledge of their causes and effects, and that history
has so little relation to words that the one can be learnt without the other? If you perceive
nothing in a man's actions beyond merely physical and external movements, what do you learn
from history? Absolutely nothing; while this study, robbed of all that makes it interesting,
gives you neither pleasure nor information. If you want to judge actions by their moral bearings,
try to make these moral bearings intelligible to your scholars. You will soon find out if they
are old enough to learn history.

Remember, reader, that he who speaks to you is neither a scholar nor a philosopher, but a plain
man and a lover of truth; a man who is pledged to no one party or system, a hermit, who mixes
little with other men, and has less opportunity of imbibing their prejudices, and more time
to reflect on the things that strike him in his intercourse with them. My arguments are based
less on theories than on facts, and I think I can find no better way to bring the facts home
to you than by quoting continually some example from the observations which suggested my arguments.

I had gone to spend a few days in the country with a worthy mother of a family who took great
pains with her children and their education. One morning I was present while the eldest boy
had his lessons. His tutor, who had taken great pains to teach him ancient history, began upon
the story of Alexander and lighted on the well-known anecdote of Philip the Doctor. There is
a picture of it, and the story is well worth study. The tutor, worthy man, made several reflections
which I did not like with regard to Alexander's courage, but I did not argue with him lest
I should lower him in the eyes of his pupil. At dinner they did not fail to get the little
fellow talking, French fashion. The eager spirit of a child of his age, and the confident expectation
of applause, made him say a number of silly things, and among them from time to time there
were things to the point, and these made people forget the rest. At last came the story of
Philip the Doctor. He told it very distinctly and prettily.  After the usual meed of praise,
demanded by his mother and expected by the child himself, they discussed what he had said.
Most of them blamed Alexander's rashness, some of them, following the tutor's example, praised
his resolution, which showed me that none of those present really saw the beauty of the story.
"For my own part," I said, "if there was any courage or any steadfastness at all in Alexander's
conduct I think it was only a piece of bravado." Then every one agreed that it was a piece
of bravado. I was getting angry, and would have replied, when a lady sitting beside me, who
had not hitherto spoken, bent towards me and whispered in my ear.  "Jean Jacques," said she,
"say no more, they will never understand you." I looked at her, I recognised the wisdom of
her advice, and I held my tongue.

Several things made me suspect that our young professor had not in the least understood the
story he told so prettily. After dinner I took his hand in mine and we went for a walk in the
park. When I had questioned him quietly, I discovered that he admired the vaunted courage of
Alexander more than any one. But in what do you suppose he thought this courage consisted?
Merely in swallowing a disagreeable drink at a single draught without hesitation and without
any signs of dislike. Not a fortnight before the poor child had been made to take some medicine
which he could hardly swallow, and the taste of it was still in his mouth. Death, and death
by poisoning, were for him only disagreeable sensations, and senna was his only idea of poison.
I must admit, however, that Alexander's resolution had made a great impression on his young
mind, and he was determined that next time he had to take medicine he would be an Alexander.
Without entering upon explanations which were clearly beyond his grasp, I confirmed him in
his praiseworthy intention, and returned home smiling to myself over the great wisdom of parents
and teachers who expect to teach history to children.

Such words as king, emperor, war, conquest, law, and revolution are easily put into their mouths;
but when it is a question of attaching clear ideas to these words the explanations are very
different from our talk with Robert the gardener.

I feel sure some readers dissatisfied with that "Say no more, Jean Jacques," will ask what
I really saw to admire in the conduct of Alexander. Poor things! if you need telling, how can
you comprehend it? Alexander believed in virtue, he staked his head, he staked his own life
on that faith, his great soul was fitted to hold such a faith. To swallow that draught was
to make a noble profession of the faith that was in him. Never did mortal man recite a finer
creed. If there is an Alexander in our own days, show me such deeds.

If children have no knowledge of words, there is no study that is suitable for them. If they
have no real ideas they have no real memory, for I do not call that a memory which only recalls
sensations. What is the use of inscribing on their brains a list of symbols which mean nothing
to them? They will learn the symbols when they learn the things signified; why give them the
useless trouble of learning them twice over? And yet what dangerous prejudices are you implanting
when you teach them to accept as knowledge words which have no meaning for them. The first
meaningless phrase, the first thing taken for granted on the word of another person without
seeing its use for himself, this is the beginning of the ruin of the child's judgment. He may
dazzle the eyes of fools long enough before he recovers from such a loss. [Footnote: The learning
of most philosophers is like the learning of children. Vast erudition results less in the multitude
of ideas than in a multitude of images. Dates, names, places, all objects isolated or unconnected
with ideas are merely retained in the memory for symbols, and we rarely recall any of these
without seeing the right or left page of the book in which we read it, or the form in which
we first saw it.  Most science was of this kind till recently. The science of our times is
another matter; study and observation are things of the past; we dream and the dreams of a
bad night are given to us as philosophy. You will say I too am a dreamer; I admit it, but I
do what the others fail to do, I give my dreams as dreams, and leave the reader to discover
whether there is anything in them which may prove useful to those who are awake.]

No, if nature has given the child this plasticity of brain which fits him to receive every
kind of impression, it was not that you should imprint on it the names and dates of kings,
the jargon of heraldry, the globe and geography, all those words without present meaning or
future use for the child, which flood of words overwhelms his sad and barren childhood. But
by means of this plasticity all the ideas he can understand and use, all that concern his happiness
and will some day throw light upon his duties, should be traced at an early age in indelible
characters upon his brain, to guide him to live in such a way as befits his nature and his powers.

Without the study of books, such a memory as the child may possess is not left idle; everything
he sees and hears makes an impression on him, he keeps a record of men's sayings and doings,
and his whole environment is the book from which he unconsciously enriches his memory, till
his judgment is able to profit by it.

To select these objects, to take care to present him constantly with those he may know, to
conceal from him those he ought not to know, this is the real way of training his early memory;
and in this way you must try to provide him with a storehouse of knowledge which will serve
for his education in youth and his conduct throughout life. True, this method does not produce
infant prodigies, nor will it reflect glory upon their tutors and governesses, but it produces
men, strong, right-thinking men, vigorous both in mind and body, men who do not win admiration
as children, but honour as men.

Emile will not learn anything by heart, not even fables, not even the fables of La Fontaine,
simple and delightful as they are, for the words are no more the fable than the words of history
are history. How can people be so blind as to call fables the child's system of morals, without
considering that the child is not only amused by the apologue but misled by it? He is attracted
by what is false and he misses the truth, and the means adopted to make the teaching pleasant
prevent him profiting by it. Men may be taught by fables; children require the naked truth.

All children learn La Fontaine's fables, but not one of them understands them. It is just as
well that they do not understand, for the morality of the fables is so mixed and so unsuitable
for their age that it would be more likely to incline them to vice than to virtue. "More paradoxes!"
you exclaim. Paradoxes they may be; but let us see if there is not some truth in them.

I maintain that the child does not understand the fables he is taught, for however you try
to explain them, the teaching you wish to extract from them demands ideas which he cannot grasp,
while the poetical form which makes it easier to remember makes it harder to understand, so
that clearness is sacrificed to facility. Without quoting the host of wholly unintelligible
and useless fables which are taught to children because they happen to be in the same book
as the others, let us keep to those which the author seems to have written specially for children.

In the whole of La Fontaine's works I only know five or six fables conspicuous for child-like
simplicity; I will take the first of these as an example, for it is one whose moral is most
suitable for all ages, one which children get hold of with the least difficulty, which they
have most pleasure in learning, one which for this very reason the author has placed at the
beginning of his book. If his object were really to delight and instruct children, this fable
is his masterpiece. Let us go through it and examine it briefly.

THE FOX AND THE CROW

A FABLE

"Maitre corbeau, sur un arbre perche" (Mr. Crow perched on a tree).--"Mr.!" what does that
word really mean? What does it mean before a proper noun? What is its meaning here? What is
a crow? What is "un arbre perche"? We do not say "on a tree perched," but perched on a tree.
So we must speak of poetical inversions, we must distinguish between prose and verse.

"Tenait dans son bec un fromage" (Held a cheese in his beak)--What sort of a cheese? Swiss,
Brie, or Dutch? If the child has never seen crows, what is the good of talking about them?
If he has seen crows will he believe that they can hold a cheese in their beak? Your illustrations
should always be taken from nature.

"Maitre renard, par l'odeur alleche" (Mr. Fox, attracted by the smell).--Another Master! But
the title suits the fox,--who is master of all the tricks of his trade. You must explain what
a fox is, and distinguish between the real fox and the conventional fox of the fables.

"Alleche." The word is obsolete; you will have to explain it. You will say it is only used
in verse. Perhaps the child will ask why people talk differently in verse. How will you answer
that question?

"Alleche, par l'odeur d'un fromage." The cheese was held in his beak by a crow perched on a
tree; it must indeed have smelt strong if the fox, in his thicket or his earth, could smell
it. This is the way you train your pupil in that spirit of right judgment, which rejects all
but reasonable arguments, and is able to distinguish between truth and falsehood in other tales.

"Lui tient a peu pres ce langage" (Spoke to him after this fashion).--"Ce langage." So foxes
talk, do they! They talk like crows! Mind what you are about, oh, wise tutor; weigh your answer
before you give it, it is more important than you suspect.

"Eh! Bonjour, Monsieur le Corbeau!" ("Good-day, Mr. Crow!")--Mr.! The child sees this title
laughed to scorn before he knows it is a title of honour. Those who say "Monsieur du Corbeau"
will find their work cut out for them to explain that "du."

"Que vous etes joli! Que vous me semblez beau!" ("How handsome you are, how beautiful in my
eyes!")--Mere padding. The child, finding the same thing repeated twice over in different words,
is learning to speak carelessly. If you say this redundance is a device of the author, a part
of the fox's scheme to make his praise seem all the greater by his flow of words, that is a
valid excuse for me, but not for my pupil.

"Sans mentir, si votre ramage" ("Without lying, if your song").--"Without lying." So people
do tell lies sometimes. What will the child think of you if you tell him the fox only says
"Sans mentir" because he is lying?

"Se rapporte a votre plumage" ("Answered to your fine feathers").--"Answered!" What does that
mean? Try to make the child compare qualities so different as those of song and plumage; you
will see how much he understands.

"Vous seriez le phenix des hotes de ces bois!" ("You would be the phoenix of all the inhabitants
of this wood!")--The phoenix! What is a phoenix? All of a sudden we are floundering in the
lies of antiquity--we are on the edge of mythology.

"The inhabitants of this wood." What figurative language! The flatterer adopts the grand style
to add dignity to his speech, to make it more attractive. Will the child understand this cunning?
Does he know, how could he possibly know, what is meant by grand style and simple style?

"A ces mots le corbeau ne se sent pas de joie" (At these words, the crow is beside himself
with delight).--To realise the full force of this proverbial expression we must have experienced
very strong feeling.

"Et, pour montrer sa belle voix" (And, to show his fine voice).--Remember that the child, to
understand this line and the whole fable, must know what is meant by the crow's fine voice.

"Il ouvre un large bec, laisse tomber sa proie" (He opens his wide beak and drops his prey).--This
is a splendid line; its very sound suggests a picture. I see the great big ugly gaping beak,
I hear the cheese crashing through the branches; but this kind of beauty is thrown away upon
children.

"Le renard s'en saisit, et dit, 'Mon bon monsieur'" (The fox catches it, and says, "My dear
sir").--So kindness is already folly.  You certainly waste no time in teaching your children.

"Apprenez que tout flatteur" ("You must learn that every flatterer").--A general maxim. The
child can make neither head nor tail of it.

"Vit au depens de celui qui l'ecoute" ("Lives at the expense of the person who listens to his
flattery").--No child of ten ever understood that.

"Ce lecon vaut bien un fromage, sans doute" ("No doubt this lesson is well worth a cheese").--This
is intelligible and its meaning is very good. Yet there are few children who could compare
a cheese and a lesson, few who would not prefer the cheese. You will therefore have to make
them understand that this is said in mockery. What subtlety for a child!

"Le corbeau, honteux et confus" (The crow, ashamed and confused).--A nothing pleonasm, and
there is no excuse for it this time.

"Jura, mais un peu tard, qu'on ne l'y prendrait plus" (Swore, but rather too late, that he
would not be caught in that way again).--"Swore." What master will be such a fool as to try
to explain to a child the meaning of an oath?

What a host of details! but much more would be needed for the analysis of all the ideas in
this fable and their reduction to the simple and elementary ideas of which each is composed.
But who thinks this analysis necessary to make himself intelligible to children? Who of us
is philosopher enough to be able to put himself in the child's place? Let us now proceed to
the moral.

Should we teach a six-year-old child that there are people who flatter and lie for the sake
of gain? One might perhaps teach them that there are people who make fools of little boys and
laugh at their foolish vanity behind their backs. But the whole thing is spoilt by the cheese.
You are teaching them how to make another drop his cheese rather than how to keep their own.
This is my second paradox, and it is not less weighty than the former one.

Watch children learning their fables and you will see that when they have a chance of applying
them they almost always use them exactly contrary to the author's meaning; instead of being
on their guard against the fault which you would prevent or cure, they are disposed to like
the vice by which one takes advantage of another's defects.  In the above fable children laugh
at the crow, but they all love the fox. In the next fable you expect them to follow the example
of the grasshopper. Not so, they will choose the ant. They do not care to abase themselves,
they will always choose the principal part--this is the choice of self-love, a very natural
choice. But what a dreadful lesson for children! There could be no monster more detestable
than a harsh and avaricious child, who realised what he was asked to give and what he refused.
The ant does more; she teaches him not merely to refuse but to revile.

In all the fables where the lion plays a part, usually the chief part, the child pretends to
be the lion, and when he has to preside over some distribution of good things, he takes care
to keep everything for himself; but when the lion is overthrown by the gnat, the child is the
gnat. He learns how to sting to death those whom he dare not attack openly.

From the fable of the sleek dog and the starving wolf he learns a lesson of licence rather
than the lesson of moderation which you profess to teach him. I shall never forget seeing a
little girl weeping bitterly over this tale, which had been told her as a lesson in obedience.
The poor child hated to be chained up; she felt the chain chafing her neck; she was crying
because she was not a wolf.

So from the first of these fables the child learns the basest flattery; from the second, cruelty;
from the third, injustice; from the fourth, satire; from the fifth, insubordination. The last
of these lessons is no more suitable for your pupils than for mine, though he has no use for
it. What results do you expect to get from your teaching when it contradicts itself! But perhaps
the same system of morals which furnishes me with objections against the fables supplies you
with as many reasons for keeping to them. Society requires a rule of morality in our words;
it also requires a rule of morality in our deeds; and these two rules are quite different.
The former is contained in the Catechism and it is left there; the other is contained in La
Fontaine's fables for children and his tales for mothers. The same author does for both.

Let us make a bargain, M. de la Fontaine. For my own part, I undertake to make your books my
favourite study; I undertake to love you, and to learn from your fables, for I hope I shall
not mistake their meaning. As to my pupil, permit me to prevent him studying any one of them
till you have convinced me that it is good for him to learn things three-fourths of which are
unintelligible to him, and until you can convince me that in those fables he can understand
he will never reverse the order and imitate the villain instead of taking warning from his dupe.

When I thus get rid of children's lessons, I get rid of the chief cause of their sorrows, namely
their books. Reading is the curse of childhood, yet it is almost the only occupation you can
find for children. Emile, at twelve years old, will hardly know what a book is. "But," you
say, "he must, at least, know how to read."

When reading is of use to him, I admit he must learn to read, but till then he will only find
it a nuisance.

If children are not to be required to do anything as a matter of obedience, it follows that
they will only learn what they perceive to be of real and present value, either for use or
enjoyment; what other motive could they have for learning? The art of speaking to our absent
friends, of hearing their words; the art of letting them know at first hand our feelings, our
desires, and our longings, is an art whose usefulness can be made plain at any age. How is
it that this art, so useful and pleasant in itself, has become a terror to children? Because
the child is compelled to acquire it against his will, and to use it for purposes beyond his
comprehension. A child has no great wish to perfect himself in the use of an instrument of
torture, but make it a means to his pleasure, and soon you will not be able to keep him from it.

People make a great fuss about discovering the beat way to teach children to read. They invent
"bureaux" [Footnote: Translator's note.--The "bureau" was a sort of case containing letters
to be put together to form words. It was a favourite device for the teaching of reading and
gave its name to a special method, called the bureau-method, of learning to read.] and cards,
they turn the nursery into a printer's shop. Locke would have them taught to read by means
of dice. What a fine idea! And the pity of it! There is a better way than any of those, and
one which is generally overlooked--it consists in the desire to learn. Arouse this desire in
your scholar and have done with your "bureaux" and your dice--any method will serve.

Present interest, that is the motive power, the only motive power that takes us far and safely.
Sometimes Emile receives notes of invitation from his father or mother, his relations or friends;
he is invited to a dinner, a walk, a boating expedition, to see some public entertainment.
These notes are short, clear, plain, and well written. Some one must read them to him, and
he cannot always find anybody when wanted; no more consideration is shown to him than he himself
showed to you yesterday. Time passes, the chance is lost. The note is read to him at last,
but it is too late. Oh! if only he had known how to read! He receives other notes, so short,
so interesting, he would like to try to read them. Sometimes he gets help, sometimes none.
He does his best, and at last he makes out half the note; it is something about going to-morrow
to drink cream--Where? With whom? He cannot tell--how hard he tries to make out the rest! I
do not think Emile will need a "bureau." Shall I proceed to the teaching of writing? No, I
am ashamed to toy with these trifles in a treatise on education.

I will just add a few words which contain a principle of great importance. It is this--What
we are in no hurry to get is usually obtained with speed and certainty. I am pretty sure Emile
will learn to read and write before he is ten, just because I care very little whether he can
do so before he is fifteen; but I would rather he never learnt to read at all, than that this
art should be acquired at the price of all that makes reading useful. What is the use of reading
to him if he always hates it? "Id imprimis cavere oportebit, ne studia, qui amare nondum potest,
oderit, et amaritudinem semel perceptam etiam ultra rudes annos reformidet."--Quintil.

The more I urge my method of letting well alone, the more objections I perceive against it.
If your pupil learns nothing from you, he will learn from others. If you do not instil truth
he will learn falsehoods; the prejudices you fear to teach him he will acquire from those about
him, they will find their way through every one of his senses; they will either corrupt his
reason before it is fully developed or his mind will become torpid through inaction, and will
become engrossed in material things. If we do not form the habit of thinking as children, we
shall lose the power of thinking for the rest of our life.

I fancy I could easily answer that objection, but why should I answer every objection? If my
method itself answers your objections, it is good; if not, it is good for nothing. I continue
my explanation.

If, in accordance with the plan I have sketched, you follow rules which are just the opposite
of the established practice, if instead of taking your scholar far afield, instead of wandering
with him in distant places, in far-off lands, in remote centuries, in the ends of the earth,
and in the very heavens themselves, you try to keep him to himself, to his own concerns, you
will then find him able to perceive, to remember, and even to reason; this is nature's order.
As the sentient being becomes active his discernment develops along with his strength. Not
till his strength is in excess of what is needed for self-preservation, is the speculative
faculty developed, the faculty adapted for using this superfluous strength for other purposes.
Would you cultivate your pupil's intelligence, cultivate the strength it is meant to control.
Give his body constant exercise, make it strong and healthy, in order to make him good and
wise; let him work, let him do things, let him run and shout, let him be always on the go;
make a man of him in strength, and he will soon be a man in reason.

Of course by this method you will make him stupid if you are always giving him directions,
always saying come here, go there, stop, do this, don't do that. If your head always guides
his hands, his own mind will become useless. But remember the conditions we laid down; if you
are a mere pedant it is not worth your while to read my book.

It is a lamentable mistake to imagine that bodily activity hinders the working of the mind,
as if these two kinds of activity ought not to advance hand in hand, and as if the one were
not intended to act as guide to the other.

There are two classes of men who are constantly engaged in bodily activity, peasants and savages,
and certainly neither of these pays the least attention to the cultivation of the mind. Peasants
are rough, coarse, and clumsy; savages are noted, not only for their keen senses, but for great
subtility of mind. Speaking generally, there is nothing duller than a peasant or sharper than
a savage. What is the cause of this difference? The peasant has always done as he was told,
what his father did before him, what he himself has always done; he is the creature of habit,
he spends his life almost like an automaton on the same tasks; habit and obedience have taken
the place of reason.

The case of the savage is very different; he is tied to no one place, he has no prescribed
task, no superior to obey, he knows no law but his own will; he is therefore forced to reason
at every step he takes. He can neither move nor walk without considering the consequences.
Thus the more his body is exercised, the more alert is his mind; his strength and his reason
increase together, and each helps to develop the other.

Oh, learned tutor, let us see which of our two scholars is most like the savage and which is
most like the peasant. Your scholar is subject to a power which is continually giving him instruction;
he acts only at the word of command; he dare not eat when he is hungry, nor laugh when he is
merry, nor weep when he is sad, nor offer one hand rather than the other, nor stir a foot unless
he is told to do it; before long he will not venture to breathe without orders. What would
you have him think about, when you do all the thinking for him? He rests securely on your foresight,
why should he think for himself? He knows you have undertaken to take care of him, to secure
his welfare, and he feels himself freed from this responsibility.  His judgment relies on yours;
what you have not forbidden that he does, knowing that he runs no risk. Why should he learn
the signs of rain? He knows you watch the clouds for him. Why should he time his walk? He knows
there is no fear of your letting him miss his dinner hour. He eats till you tell him to stop,
he stops when you tell him to do so; he does not attend to the teaching of his own stomach,
but yours. In vain do you make his body soft by inaction; his understanding does not become
subtle. Far from it, you complete your task of discrediting reason in his eyes, by making him
use such reasoning power as he has on the things which seem of least importance to him. As
he never finds his reason any use to him, he decides at last that it is useless. If he reasons
badly he will be found fault with; nothing worse will happen to him; and he has been found
fault with so often that he pays no attention to it, such a common danger no longer alarms him.

Yet you will find he has a mind. He is quick enough to chatter with the women in the way I
spoke of further back; but if he is in danger, if he must come to a decision in difficult circumstances,
you will find him a hundredfold more stupid and silly than the son of the roughest labourer.

As for my pupil, or rather Nature's pupil, he has been trained from the outset to be as self-reliant
as possible, he has not formed the habit of constantly seeking help from others, still less
of displaying his stores of learning. On the other hand, he exercises discrimination and forethought,
he reasons about everything that concerns himself. He does not chatter, he acts. Not a word
does he know of what is going on in the world at large, but he knows very thoroughly what affects
himself. As he is always stirring he is compelled to notice many things, to recognise many
effects; he soon acquires a good deal of experience. Nature, not man, is his schoolmaster,
and he learns all the quicker because he is not aware that he has any lesson to learn. So mind
and body work together. He is always carrying out his own ideas, not those of other people,
and thus he unites thought and action; as he grows in health and strength he grows in wisdom
and discernment. This is the way to attain later on to what is generally considered incompatible,
though most great men have achieved it, strength of body and strength of mind, the reason of
the philosopher and the vigour of the athlete.

Young teacher, I am setting before you a difficult task, the art of controlling without precepts,
and doing everything without doing anything at all. This art is, I confess, beyond your years,
it is not calculated to display your talents nor to make your value known to your scholar's
parents; but it is the only road to success. You will never succeed in making wise men if you
do not first make little imps of mischief. This was the education of the Spartans; they were
not taught to stick to their books, they were set to steal their dinners. Were they any the
worse for it in after life? Ever ready for victory, they crushed their foes in every kind of
warfare, and the prating Athenians were as much afraid of their words as of their blows.

When education is most carefully attended to, the teacher issues his orders and thinks himself
master, but it is the child who is really master. He uses the tasks you set him to obtain what
he wants from you, and he can always make you pay for an hour's industry by a week's complaisance.
You must always be making bargains with him.  These bargains, suggested in your fashion, but
carried out in his, always follow the direction of his own fancies, especially when you are
foolish enough to make the condition some advantage he is almost sure to obtain, whether he
fulfils his part of the bargain or not.  The child is usually much quicker to read the master's
thoughts than the master to read the child's feelings. And that is as it should be, for all
the sagacity which the child would have devoted to self-preservation, had he been left to himself,
is now devoted to the rescue of his native freedom from the chains of his tyrant; while the
latter, who has no such pressing need to understand the child, sometimes finds that it pays
him better to leave him in idleness or vanity.

Take the opposite course with your pupil; let him always think he is master while you are really
master. There is no subjection so complete as that which preserves the forms of freedom; it
is thus that the will itself is taken captive. Is not this poor child, without knowledge, strength,
or wisdom, entirely at your mercy? Are you not master of his whole environment so far as it
affects him? Cannot you make of him what you please? His work and play, his pleasure and pain,
are they not, unknown to him, under your control? No doubt he ought only to do what he wants,
but he ought to want to do nothing but what you want him to do. He should never take a step
you have not foreseen, nor utter a word you could not foretell.

Then he can devote himself to the bodily exercises adapted to his age without brutalising his
mind; instead of developing his cunning to evade an unwelcome control, you will then find him
entirely occupied in getting the best he can out of his environment with a view to his present
welfare, and you will be surprised by the subtlety of the means he devises to get for himself
such things as he can obtain, and to really enjoy things without the aid of other people's
ideas. You leave him master of his own wishes, but you do not multiply his caprices. When he
only does what he wants, he will soon only do what he ought, and although his body is constantly
in motion, so far as his sensible and present interests are concerned, you will find him developing
all the reason of which he is capable, far better and in a manner much better fitted for him
than in purely theoretical studies.

Thus when he does not find you continually thwarting him, when he no longer distrusts you,
no longer has anything to conceal from you, he will neither tell you lies nor deceive you;
he will show himself fearlessly as he really is, and you can study him at your ease, and surround
him with all the lessons you would have him learn, without awaking his suspicions.

Neither will he keep a curious and jealous eye on your own conduct, nor take a secret delight
in catching you at fault. It is a great thing to avoid this. One of the child's first objects
is, as I have said, to find the weak spots in its rulers. Though this leads to spitefulness,
it does not arise from it, but from the desire to evade a disagreeable control. Overburdened
by the yoke laid upon him, he tries to shake it off, and the faults he finds in his master
give him a good opportunity for this. Still the habit of spying out faults and delighting in
them grows upon people. Clearly we have stopped another of the springs of vice in Emile's heart.
Having nothing to gain from my faults, he will not be on the watch for them, nor will he be
tempted to look out for the faults of others.

All these methods seem difficult because they are new to us, but they ought not to be really
difficult. I have a right to assume that you have the knowledge required for the business you
have chosen; that you know the usual course of development of the human thought, that you can
study mankind and man, that you know beforehand the effect on your pupil's will of the various
objects suited to his age which you put before him. You have the tools and the art to use them;
are you not master of your trade?

You speak of childish caprice; you are mistaken. Children's caprices are never the work of
nature, but of bad discipline; they have either obeyed or given orders, and I have said again
and again, they must do neither. Your pupil will have the caprices you have taught him; it
is fair you should bear the punishment of your own faults.  "But how can I cure them?" do you
say? That may still be done by better conduct on your own part and great patience. I once undertook
the charge of a child for a few weeks; he was accustomed not only to have his own way, but
to make every one else do as he pleased; he was therefore capricious. The very first day he
wanted to get up at midnight, to try how far he could go with me. When I was sound asleep he
jumped out of bed, got his dressing-gown, and waked me up.  I got up and lighted the candle,
which was all he wanted. After a quarter of an hour he became sleepy and went back to bed quite
satisfied with his experiment. Two days later he repeated it, with the same success and with
no sign of impatience on my part. When he kissed me as he lay down, I said to him very quietly,
"My little dear, this is all very well, but do not try it again." His curiosity was aroused
by this, and the very next day he did not fail to get up at the same time and woke me to see
whether I should dare to disobey him. I asked what he wanted, and he told me he could not sleep.
"So much the worse for you," I replied, and I lay quiet. He seemed perplexed by this way of
speaking. He felt his way to the flint and steel and tried to strike a light. I could not help
laughing when I heard him strike his fingers. Convinced at last that he could not manage it,
he brought the steel to my bed; I told him I did not want it, and I turned my back to him.
Then he began to rush wildly about the room, shouting, singing, making a great noise, knocking
against chairs and tables, but taking, however, good care not to hurt himself seriously, but
screaming loudly in the hope of alarming me.  All this had no effect, but I perceived that
though he was prepared for scolding or anger, he was quite unprepared for indifference.

However, he was determined to overcome my patience with his own obstinacy, and he continued
his racket so successfully that at last I lost my temper. I foresaw that I should spoil the
whole business by an unseemly outburst of passion. I determined on another course. I got up
quietly, went to the tinder box, but could not find it; I asked him for it, and he gave it
me, delighted to have won the victory over me. I struck a light, lighted the candle, took my
young gentleman by the hand and led him quietly into an adjoining dressing-room with the shutters
firmly fastened, and nothing he could break.

I left him there without a light; then locking him in I went back to my bed without a word.
What a noise there was! That was what I expected, and took no notice. At last the noise ceased;
I listened, heard him settling down, and I was quite easy about him. Next morning I entered
the room at daybreak, and my little rebel was lying on a sofa enjoying a sound and much needed
sleep after his exertions.

The matter did not end there. His mother heard that the child had spent a great part of the
night out of bed. That spoilt the whole thing; her child was as good as dead. Finding a good
chance for revenge, he pretended to be ill, not seeing that he would gain nothing by it. They
sent for the doctor. Unluckily for the mother, the doctor was a practical joker, and to amuse
himself with her terrors he did his best to increase them. However, he whispered to me, "Leave
it to me, I promise to cure the child of wanting to be ill for some time to come." As a matter
of fact he prescribed bed and dieting, and the child was handed over to the apothecary. I sighed
to see the mother cheated on every hand except by me, whom she hated because I did not deceive her.

After pretty severe reproaches, she told me her son was delicate, that he was the sole heir
of the family, his life must be preserved at all costs, and she would not have him contradicted.
In that I thoroughly agreed with her, but what she meant by contradicting was not obeying him
in everything. I saw I should have to treat the mother as I had treated the son. "Madam," I
said coldly, "I do not know how to educate the heir to a fortune, and what is more, I do not
mean to study that art. You can take that as settled." I was wanted for some days longer, and
the father smoothed things over.  The mother wrote to the tutor to hasten his return, and the
child, finding he got nothing by disturbing my rest, nor yet by being ill, decided at last
to get better and to go to sleep.

You can form no idea of the number of similar caprices to which the little tyrant had subjected
his unlucky tutor; for his education was carried on under his mother's eye, and she would not
allow her son and heir to be disobeyed in anything. Whenever he wanted to go out, you must
be ready to take him, or rather to follow him, and he always took good care to choose the time
when he knew his tutor was very busy. He wished to exercise the same power over me and to avenge
himself by day for having to leave me in peace at night. I gladly agreed and began by showing
plainly how pleased I was to give him pleasure; after that when it was a matter of curing him
of his fancies I set about it differently.

In the first place, he must be shown that he was in the wrong. This was not difficult; knowing
that children think only of the present, I took the easy advantage which foresight gives; I
took care to provide him with some indoor amusement of which he was very fond. Just when he
was most occupied with it, I went and suggested a short walk, and he sent me away. I insisted,
but he paid no attention. I had to give in, and he took note of this sign of submission.

The next day it was my turn. As I expected, he got tired of his occupation; I, however, pretended
to be very busy. That was enough to decide him. He came to drag me from my work, to take him
at once for a walk. I refused; he persisted. "No," I said, "when I did what you wanted, you
taught me how to get my own way; I shall not go out." "Very well," he replied eagerly, "I shall
go out by myself." "As you please," and I returned to my work.

He put on his things rather uneasily when he saw I did not follow his example. When he was
ready he came and made his bow; I bowed too; he tried to frighten me with stories of the expeditions
he was going to make; to hear him talk you would think he was going to the world's end. Quite
unmoved, I wished him a pleasant journey. He became more and more perplexed. However, he put
a good face on it, and when he was ready to go out he told his foot man to follow him.  The
footman, who had his instructions, replied that he had no time, and that he was busy carrying
out my orders, and he must obey me first. For the moment the child was taken aback. How could
he think they would really let him go out alone, him, who, in his own eyes, was the most important
person in the world, who thought that everything in heaven and earth was wrapped up in his
welfare? However, he was beginning to feel his weakness, he perceived that he should find himself
alone among people who knew nothing of him. He saw beforehand the risks he would run; obstinacy
alone sustained him; very slowly and unwillingly he went downstairs. At last he went out into
the street, consoling himself a little for the harm that might happen to himself, in the hope
that I should be held responsible for it.

This was just what I expected. All was arranged beforehand, and as it meant some sort of public
scene I had got his father's consent. He had scarcely gone a few steps, when he heard, first
on this side then on that, all sorts of remarks about himself. "What a pretty little gentleman,
neighbour? Where is he going all alone? He will get lost! I will ask him into our house." "Take
care you don't. Don't you see he is a naughty little boy, who has been turned out of his own
house because he is good for nothing? You must not stop naughty boys; let him go where he likes."
"Well, well; the good God take care of him. I should be sorry if anything happened to him."
A little further on he met some young urchins of about his own age who teased him and made
fun of him. The further he got the more difficulties he found. Alone and unprotected he was
at the mercy of everybody, and he found to his great surprise that his shoulder knot and his
gold lace commanded no respect.

However, I had got a friend of mine, who was a stranger to him, to keep an eye on him. Unnoticed
by him, this friend followed him step by step, and in due time he spoke to him. The role, like
that of Sbrigani in Pourceaugnac, required an intelligent actor, and it was played to perfection.
Without making the child fearful and timid by inspiring excessive terror, he made him realise
so thoroughly the folly of his exploit that in half an hour's time he brought him home to me,
ashamed and humble, and afraid to look me in the face.

To put the finishing touch to his discomfiture, just as he was coming in his father came down
on his way out and met him on the stairs. He had to explain where he had been, and why I was
not with him. [Footnote: In a case like this there is no danger in asking a child to tell the
truth, for he knows very well that it cannot be hid, and that if he ventured to tell a lie
he would be found out at once.] The poor child would gladly have sunk into the earth. His father
did not take the trouble to scold him at length, but said with more severity than I should
have expected, "When you want to go out by yourself, you can do so, but I will not have a rebel
in my house, so when you go, take good care that you never come back."

As for me, I received him somewhat gravely, but without blame and without mockery, and for
fear he should find out we had been playing with him, I declined to take him out walking that
day. Next day I was well pleased to find that he passed in triumph with me through the very
same people who had mocked him the previous day, when they met him out by himself. You may
be sure he never threatened to go out without me again.

By these means and other like them I succeeded during the short time I was with him in getting
him to do everything I wanted without bidding him or forbidding him to do anything, without
preaching or exhortation, without wearying him with unnecessary lessons. So he was pleased
when I spoke to him, but when I was silent he was frightened, for he knew there was something
amiss, and he always got his lesson from the thing itself. But let us return to our subject.

The body is strengthened by this constant exercise under the guidance of nature herself, and
far from brutalising the mind, this exercise develops in it the only kind of reason of which
young children are capable, the kind of reason most necessary at every age. It teaches us how
to use our strength, to perceive the relations between our own and neighbouring bodies, to
use the natural tools, which are within our reach and adapted to our senses.  Is there anything
sillier than a child brought up indoors under his mother's eye, who, in his ignorance of weight
and resistance, tries to uproot a tall tree or pick up a rock. The first time I found myself
outside Geneva I tried to catch a galloping horse, and I threw stones at Mont Saleve, two leagues
away; I was the laughing stock of the whole village, and was supposed to be a regular idiot.
At eighteen we are taught in our natural philosophy the use of the lever; every village boy
of twelve knows how to use a lever better than the cleverest mechanician in the academy. The
lessons the scholars learn from one another in the playground are worth a hundredfold more
than what they learn in the class-room.

Watch a cat when she comes into a room for the first time; she goes from place to place, she
sniffs about and examines everything, she is never still for a moment; she is suspicious of
everything till she has examined it and found out what it is. It is the same with the child
when he begins to walk, and enters, so to speak, the room of the world around him. The only
difference is that, while both use sight, the child uses his hands and the cat that subtle
sense of smell which nature has bestowed upon it. It is this instinct, rightly or wrongly educated,
which makes children skilful or clumsy, quick or slow, wise or foolish.

Man's primary natural goals are, therefore, to measure himself against his environment, to
discover in every object he sees those sensible qualities which may concern himself, so his
first study is a kind of experimental physics for his own preservation. He is turned away from
this and sent to speculative studies before he has found his proper place in the world. While
his delicate and flexible limbs can adjust themselves to the bodies upon which they are intended
to act, while his senses are keen and as yet free from illusions, then is the time to exercise
both limbs and senses in their proper business.  It is the time to learn to perceive the physical
relations between ourselves and things. Since everything that comes into the human mind enters
through the gates of sense, man's first reason is a reason of sense-experience. It is this
that serves as a foundation for the reason of the intelligence; our first teachers in natural
philosophy are our feet, hands, and eyes. To substitute books for them does not teach us to
reason, it teaches us to use the reason of others rather than our own; it teaches us to believe
much and know little.

Before you can practise an art you must first get your tools; and if you are to make good use
of those tools, they must be fashioned sufficiently strong to stand use. To learn to think
we must therefore exercise our limbs, our senses, and our bodily organs, which are the tools
of the intellect; and to get the best use out of these tools, the body which supplies us with
them must be strong and healthy. Not only is it quite a mistake that true reason is developed
apart from the body, but it is a good bodily constitution which makes the workings of the mind
easy and correct.

While I am showing how the child's long period of leisure should be spent, I am entering into
details which may seem absurd. You will say, "This is a strange sort of education, and it is
subject to your own criticism, for it only teaches what no one needs to learn. Why spend your
time in teaching what will come of itself without care or trouble? Is there any child of twelve
who is ignorant of all you wish to teach your pupil, while he also knows what his master has
taught him."

Gentlemen, you are mistaken. I am teaching my pupil an art, the acquirement of which demands
much time and trouble, an art which your scholars certainly do not possess; it is the art of
being ignorant; for the knowledge of any one who only thinks he knows, what he really does
know is a very small matter. You teach science; well and good; I am busy fashioning the necessary
tools for its acquisition. Once upon a time, they say the Venetians were displaying the treasures
of the Cathedral of Saint Mark to the Spanish ambassador; the only comment he made was, "Qui
non c'e la radice." When I see a tutor showing off his pupil's learning, I am always tempted
to say the same to him.

Every one who has considered the manner of life among the ancients, attributes the strength
of body and mind by which they are distinguished from the men of our own day to their gymnastic
exercises. The stress laid by Montaigne upon this opinion, shows that it had made a great impression
on him; he returns to it again and again. Speaking of a child's education he says, "To strengthen
the mind you must harden the muscles; by training the child to labour you train him to suffering;
he must be broken in to the hardships of gymnastic exercises to prepare him for the hardships
of dislocations, colics, and other bodily ills." The philosopher Locke, the worthy Rollin,
the learned Fleury, the pedant De Crouzas, differing as they do so widely from one another,
are agreed in this one matter of sufficient bodily exercise for children. This is the wisest
of their precepts, and the one which is certain to be neglected. I have already dwelt sufficiently
on its importance, and as better reasons and more sensible rules cannot be found than those
in Locke's book, I will content myself with referring to it, after taking the liberty of adding
a few remarks of my own.

The limbs of a growing child should be free to move easily in his clothing; nothing should
cramp their growth or movement; there should be nothing tight, nothing fitting closely to the
body, no belts of any kind. The French style of dress, uncomfortable and unhealthy for a man,
is especially bad for children. The stagnant humours, whose circulation is interrupted, putrify
in a state of inaction, and this process proceeds more rapidly in an inactive and sedentary
life; they become corrupt and give rise to scurvy; this disease, which is continually on the
increase among us, was almost unknown to the ancients, whose way of dressing and living protected
them from it. The hussar's dress, far from correcting this fault, increases it, and compresses
the whole of the child's body, by way of dispensing with a few bands. The best plan is to keep
children in frocks as long as possible and then to provide them with loose clothing, without
trying to define the shape which is only another way of deforming it. Their defects of body
and mind may all be traced to the same source, the desire to make men of them before their time.

There are bright colours and dull; children like the bright colours best, and they suit them
better too. I see no reason why such natural suitability should not be taken into consideration;
but as soon as they prefer a material because it is rich, their hearts are already given over
to luxury, to every caprice of fashion, and this taste is certainly not their own. It is impossible
to say how much education is influenced by this choice of clothes, and the motives for this
choice. Not only do short-sighted mothers offer ornaments as rewards to their children, but
there are foolish tutors who threaten to make their pupils wear the plainest and coarsest clothes
as a punishment. "If you do not do your lessons better, if you do not take more care of your
clothes, you shall be dressed like that little peasant boy." This is like saying to them, "Understand
that clothes make the man." Is it to be wondered at that our young people profit by such wise
teaching, that they care for nothing but dress, and that they only judge of merit by its outside.

If I had to bring such a spoilt child to his senses, I would take care that his smartest clothes
were the most uncomfortable, that he was always cramped, constrained, and embarrassed in every
way; freedom and mirth should flee before his splendour. If he wanted to take part in the games
of children more simply dressed, they should cease their play and run away. Before long I should
make him so tired and sick of his magnificence, such a slave to his gold-laced coat, that it
would become the plague of his life, and he would be less afraid to behold the darkest dungeon
than to see the preparations for his adornment. Before the child is enslaved by our prejudices
his first wish is always to be free and comfortable. The plainest and most comfortable clothes,
those which leave him most liberty, are what he always likes best.

There are habits of body suited for an active life and others for a sedentary life. The latter
leaves the humours an equable and uniform course, and the body should be protected from changes
in temperature; the former is constantly passing from action to rest, from heat to cold, and
the body should be inured to these changes. Hence people, engaged in sedentary pursuits indoors,
should always be warmly dressed, to keep their bodies as nearly as possible at the same temperature
at all times and seasons. Those, however, who come and go in sun, wind, and rain, who take
much exercise, and spend most of their time out of doors, should always be lightly clad, so
as to get used to the changes in the air and to every degree of temperature without suffering
inconvenience. I would advise both never to change their clothes with the changing seasons,
and that would be the invariable habit of my pupil Emile. By this I do not mean that he should
wear his winter clothes in summer like many people of sedentary habits, but that he should
wear his summer clothes in winter like hard-working folk. Sir Isaac Newton always did this,
and he lived to be eighty.

Emile should wear little or nothing on his head all the year round. The ancient Egyptians always
went bareheaded; the Persians used to wear heavy tiaras and still wear large turbans, which
according to Chardin are required by their climate. I have remarked elsewhere on the difference
observed by Herodotus on a battle-field between the skulls of the Persians and those of the
Egyptians. Since it is desirable that the bones of the skull should grow harder and more substantial,
less fragile and porous, not only to protect the brain against injuries but against colds,
fever, and every influence of the air, you should therefore accustom your children to go bare-headed
winter and summer, day and night. If you make them wear a night-cap to keep their hair clean
and tidy, let it be thin and transparent like the nets with which the Basques cover their hair.
I am aware that most mothers will be more impressed by Chardin's observations than my arguments,
and will think that all climates are the climate of Persia, but I did not choose a European
pupil to turn him into an Asiatic.

Children are generally too much wrapped up, particularly in infancy. They should be accustomed
to cold rather than heat; great cold never does them any harm, if they are exposed to it soon
enough; but their skin is still too soft and tender and leaves too free a course for perspiration,
so that they are inevitably exhausted by excessive heat. It has been observed that infant mortality
is greatest in August. Moreover, it seems certain from a comparison of northern and southern
races that we become stronger by bearing extreme cold rather than excessive heat. But as the
child's body grows bigger and his muscles get stronger, train him gradually to bear the rays
of the sun. Little by little you will harden him till he can face the burning heat of the tropics
without danger.

Locke, in the midst of the manly and sensible advice he gives us, falls into inconsistencies
one would hardly expect in such a careful thinker. The same man who would have children take
an ice-cold bath summer and winter, will not let them drink cold water when they are hot, or
lie on damp grass. But he would never have their shoes water-tight; and why should they let
in more water when the child is hot than when he is cold, and may we not draw the same inference
with regard to the feet and body that he draws with regard to the hands and feet and the body
and face? If he would have a man all face, why blame me if I would have him all feet?

To prevent children drinking when they are hot, he says they should be trained to eat a piece
of bread first. It is a strange thing to make a child eat because he is thirsty; I would as
soon give him a drink when he is hungry. You will never convince me that our first instincts
are so ill-regulated that we cannot satisfy them without endangering our lives. Were that so,
the man would have perished over and over again before he had learned how to keep himself alive.

Whenever Emile is thirsty let him have a drink, and let him drink fresh water just as it is,
not even taking the chill off it in the depths of winter and when he is bathed in perspiration.
The only precaution I advise is to take care what sort of water you give him.  If the water
comes from a river, give it him just as it is; if it is spring-water let it stand a little
exposed to the air before he drinks it. In warm weather rivers are warm; it is not so with
springs, whose water has not been in contact with the air. You must wait till the temperature
of the water is the same as that of the air. In winter, on the other hand, spring water is
safer than river water. It is, however, unusual and unnatural to perspire greatly in winter,
especially in the open air, for the cold air constantly strikes the skin and drives the perspiration
inwards, and prevents the pores opening enough to give it passage. Now I do not intend Emile
to take his exercise by the fireside in winter, but in the open air and among the ice. If he
only gets warm with making and throwing snowballs, let him drink when he is thirsty, and go
on with his game after drinking, and you need not be afraid of any ill effects. And if any
other exercise makes him perspire let him drink cold water even in winter provided he is thirsty.
Only take care to take him to get the water some little distance away. In such cold as I am
supposing, he would have cooled down sufficiently when he got there to be able to drink without
danger. Above all, take care to conceal these precautions from him. I would rather he were
ill now and then, than always thinking about his health.

Since children take such violent exercise they need a great deal of sleep. The one makes up
for the other, and this shows that both are necessary. Night is the time set apart by nature
for rest. It is an established fact that sleep is quieter and calmer when the sun is below
the horizon, and that our senses are less calm when the air is warmed by the rays of the sun.
So it is certainly the healthiest plan to rise with the sun and go to bed with the sun. Hence
in our country man and all the other animals with him want more sleep in winter than in summer.
But town life is so complex, so unnatural, so subject to chances and changes, that it is not
wise to accustom a man to such uniformity that he cannot do without it. No doubt he must submit
to rules; but the chief rule is this--be able to break the rule if necessary. So do not be
so foolish as to soften your pupil by letting him always sleep his sleep out. Leave him at
first to the law of nature without any hindrance, but never forget that under our conditions
he must rise above this law; he must be able to go to bed late and rise early, be awakened
suddenly, or sit up all night without ill effects. Begin early and proceed gently, a step at
a time, and the constitution adapts itself to the very conditions which would destroy it if
they were imposed for the first time on the grown man.

In the next place he must be accustomed to sleep in an uncomfortable bed, which is the best
way to find no bed uncomfortable. Speaking generally, a hard life, when once we have become
used to it, increases our pleasant experiences; an easy life prepares the way for innumerable
unpleasant experiences. Those who are too tenderly nurtured can only sleep on down; those who
are used to sleep on bare boards can find them anywhere. There is no such thing as a hard bed
for the man who falls asleep at once.

The body is, so to speak, melted and dissolved in a soft bed where one sinks into feathers
and eider-down. The reins when too warmly covered become inflamed. Stone and other diseases
are often due to this, and it invariably produces a delicate constitution, which is the seed-ground
of every ailment.

The best bed is that in which we get the best sleep. Emile and I will prepare such a bed for
ourselves during the daytime. We do not need Persian slaves to make our beds; when we are digging
the soil we are turning our mattresses. I know that a healthy child may be made to sleep or
wake almost at will. When the child is put to bed and his nurse grows weary of his chatter,
she says to him, "Go to sleep." That is much like saying, "Get well," when he is ill. The right
way is to let him get tired of himself. Talk so much that he is compelled to hold his tongue,
and he will soon be asleep. Here is at least one use for sermons, and you may as well preach
to him as rock his cradle; but if you use this narcotic at night, do not use it by day.

I shall sometimes rouse Emile, not so much to prevent his sleeping too much, as to accustom
him to anything--even to waking with a start. Moreover, I should be unfit for my business if
I could not make him wake himself, and get up, so to speak, at my will, without being called.

If he wakes too soon, I shall let him look forward to a tedious morning, so that he will count
as gain any time he can give to sleep. If he sleeps too late I shall show him some favourite
toy when he wakes. If I want him to wake at a given hour I shall say, "To-morrow at six I am
going fishing," or "I shall take a walk to such and such a place. Would you like to come too?"
He assents, and begs me to wake him. I promise, or do not promise, as the case requires. If
he wakes too late, he finds me gone. There is something amiss if he does not soon learn to
wake himself.

Moreover, should it happen, though it rarely does, that a sluggish child desires to stagnate
in idleness, you must not give way to this tendency, which might stupefy him entirely, but
you must apply some stimulus to wake him. You must understand that is no question of applying
force, but of arousing some appetite which leads to action, and such an appetite, carefully
selected on the lines laid down by nature, kills two birds with one stone.

If one has any sort of skill, I can think of nothing for which a taste, a very passion, cannot
be aroused in children, and that without vanity, emulation, or jealousy. Their keenness, their
spirit of imitation, is enough of itself; above all, there is their natural liveliness, of
which no teacher so far has contrived to take advantage. In every game, when they are quite
sure it is only play, they endure without complaint, or even with laughter, hardships which
they would not submit to otherwise without floods of tears. The sports of the young savage
involve long fasting, blows, burns, and fatigue of every kind, a proof that even pain has a
charm of its own, which may remove its bitterness. It is not every master, however, who knows
how to season this dish, nor can every scholar eat it without making faces. However, I must
take care or I shall be wandering off again after exceptions.

It is not to be endured that man should become the slave of pain, disease, accident, the perils
of life, or even death itself; the more familiar he becomes with these ideas the sooner he
will be cured of that over-sensitiveness which adds to the pain by impatience in bearing it;
the sooner he becomes used to the sufferings which may overtake him, the sooner he shall, as
Montaigne has put it, rob those pains of the sting of unfamiliarity, and so make his soul strong
and invulnerable; his body will be the coat of mail which stops all the darts which might otherwise
find a vital part. Even the approach of death, which is not death itself, will scarcely be
felt as such; he will not die, he will be, so to speak, alive or dead and nothing more. Montaigne
might say of him as he did of a certain king of Morocco, "No man ever prolonged his life so
far into death." A child serves his apprenticeship in courage and endurance as well as in other
virtues; but you cannot teach children these virtues by name alone; they must learn them unconsciously
through experience.

But speaking of death, what steps shall I take with regard to my pupil and the smallpox? Shall
he be inoculated in infancy, or shall I wait till he takes it in the natural course of things?
The former plan is more in accordance with our practice, for it preserves his life at a time
when it is of greater value, at the cost of some danger when his life is of less worth; if
indeed we can use the word danger with regard to inoculation when properly performed.

But the other plan is more in accordance with our general principles--to leave nature to take
the precautions she delights in, precautions she abandons whenever man interferes. The natural
man is always ready; let nature inoculate him herself, she will choose the fitting occasion
better than we.

Do not think I am finding fault with inoculation, for my reasons for exempting my pupil from
it do not in the least apply to yours. Your training does not prepare them to escape catching
smallpox as soon as they are exposed to infection. If you let them take it anyhow, they will
probably die. I perceive that in different lands the resistance to inoculation is in proportion
to the need for it; and the reason is plain. So I scarcely condescend to discuss this question
with regard to Emile. He will be inoculated or not according to time, place, and circumstances;
it is almost a matter of indifference, as far as he is concerned. If it gives him smallpox,
there will be the advantage of knowing what to expect, knowing what the disease is; that is
a good thing, but if he catches it naturally it will have kept him out of the doctor's hands,
which is better.

An exclusive education, which merely tends to keep those who have received it apart from the
mass of mankind, always selects such teaching as is costly rather than cheap, even when the
latter is of more use. Thus all carefully educated young men learn to ride, because it is costly,
but scarcely any of them learn to swim, as it costs nothing, and an artisan can swim as well
as any one. Yet without passing through the riding school, the traveller learns to mount his
horse, to stick on it, and to ride well enough for practical purposes; but in the water if
you cannot swim you will drown, and we cannot swim unless we are taught. Again, you are not
forced to ride on pain of death, while no one is sure of escaping such a common danger as drowning.
Emile shall be as much at home in the water as on land. Why should he not be able to live in
every element? If he could learn to fly, he should be an eagle; I would make him a salamander,
if he could bear the heat.

People are afraid lest the child should be drowned while he is learning to swim; if he dies
while he is learning, or if he dies because he has not learnt, it will be your own fault. Foolhardiness
is the result of vanity; we are not rash when no one is looking. Emile will not be foolhardy,
though all the world were watching him.  As the exercise does not depend on its danger, he
will learn to swim the Hellespont by swimming, without any danger, a stream in his father's
park; but he must get used to danger too, so as not to be flustered by it. This is an essential
part of the apprenticeship I spoke of just now. Moreover, I shall take care to proportion the
danger to his strength, and I shall always share it myself, so that I need scarcely fear any
imprudence if I take as much care for his life as for my own.

A child is smaller than a man; he has not the man's strength or reason, but he sees and hears
as well or nearly as well; his sense of taste is very good, though he is less fastidious, and
he distinguishes scents as clearly though less sensuously. The senses are the first of our
faculties to mature; they are those most frequently overlooked or neglected.

To train the senses it is not enough merely to use them; we must learn to judge by their means,
to learn to feel, so to speak; for we cannot touch, see, or hear, except as we have been taught.

There is a mere natural and mechanical use of the senses which strengthens the body without
improving the judgment. It is all very well to swim, run, jump, whip a top, throw stones; but
have we nothing but arms and legs? Have we not eyes and ears as well; and are not these organs
necessary for the use of the rest? Do not merely exercise the strength, exercise all the senses
by which it is guided; make the best use of every one of them, and check the results of one
by the other. Measure, count, weigh, compare. Do not use force till you have estimated the
resistance; let the estimation of the effect always precede the application of the means. Get
the child interested in avoiding insufficient or superfluous efforts. If in this way you train
him to calculate the effects of all his movements, and to correct his mistakes by experience,
is it not clear that the more he does the wiser he will become?

Take the case of moving a heavy mass; if he takes too long a lever, he will waste his strength;
if it is too short, he will not have strength enough; experience will teach him to use the
very stick he needs. This knowledge is not beyond his years. Take, for example, a load to be
carried; if he wants to carry as much as he can, and not to take up more than he can carry,
must he not calculate the weight by the appearance? Does he know how to compare masses of like
substance and different size, or to choose between masses of the same size and different substances?
He must set to work to compare their specific weights. I have seen a young man, very highly
educated, who could not be convinced, till he had tried it, that a bucket full of blocks of
oak weighed less than the same bucket full of water.

All our senses are not equally under our control. One of them, touch, is always busy during
our waking hours; it is spread over the whole surface of the body, like a sentinel ever on
the watch to warn us of anything which may do us harm. Whether we will or not, we learn to
use it first of all by experience, by constant practice, and therefore we have less need for
special training for it. Yet we know that the blind have a surer and more delicate sense of
touch than we, for not being guided by the one sense, they are forced to get from the touch
what we get from sight. Why, then, are not we trained to walk as they do in the dark, to recognise
what we touch, to distinguish things about us; in a word, to do at night and in the dark what
they do in the daytime without sight? We are better off than they while the sun shines; in
the dark it is their turn to be our guide. We are blind half our time, with this difference:
the really blind always know what to do, while we are afraid to stir in the dark. We have lights,
you say. What always artificial aids. Who can insure that they will always be at hand when
required. I had rather Emil's eyes were in his finger tips, than in the chandler's shop.

If you are shut up in a building at night, clap your hands, you will know from the sound whether
the space is large or small, if you are in the middle or in one corner. Half a foot from a
wall the air, which is refracted and does not circulate freely, produces a different effect
on your face. Stand still in one place and turn this way and that; a slight draught will tell
you if there is a door open. If you are on a boat you will perceive from the way the air strikes
your face not merely the direction in which you are going, but whether the current is bearing
you slow or fast. These observations and many others like them can only be properly made at
night; however much attention we give to them by daylight, we are always helped or hindered
by sight, so that the results escape us.  Yet here we use neither hand nor stick. How much
may be learnt by touch, without ever touching anything!

I would have plenty of games in the dark! This suggestion is more valuable than it seems at
first sight. Men are naturally afraid of the dark; so are some animals. [Footnote: This terror
is very noticeable during great eclipses of the sun.] Only a few men are freed from this burden
by knowledge, determination, and courage. I have seen thinkers, unbelievers, philosophers,
exceedingly brave by daylight, tremble like women at the rustling of a leaf in the dark.  This
terror is put down to nurses' tales; this is a mistake; it has a natural cause. What is this
cause? What makes the deaf suspicious and the lower classes superstitious? Ignorance of the
things about us, and of what is taking place around us. [Footnote: Another cause has been well
explained by a philosopher, often quoted in this work, a philosopher to whose wide views I
am very greatly indebted.]

When under special conditions we cannot form a fair idea of distance, when we can only judge
things by the size of the angle or rather of the image formed in our eyes, we cannot avoid
being deceived as to the size of these objects. Every one knows by experience how when we are
travelling at night we take a bush near at hand for a great tree at a distance, and vice versa.
In the same way, if the objects were of a shape unknown to us, so that we could not tell their
size in that way, we should be equally mistaken with regard to it. If a fly flew quickly past
a few inches from our eyes, we should think it was a distant bird; a horse standing still at
a distance from us in the midst of open country, in a position somewhat like that of a sheep,
would be taken for a large sheep, so long as we did not perceive that it was a horse; but as
soon as we recognise what it is, it seems as large as a horse, and we at once correct our former
judgment.

Whenever one finds oneself in unknown places at night where we cannot judge of distance, and
where we cannot recognise objects by their shape on account of the darkness, we are in constant
danger of forming mistaken judgments as to the objects which present themselves to our notice.
Hence that terror, that kind of inward fear experienced by most people on dark nights. This
is foundation for the supposed appearances of spectres, or gigantic and terrible forms which
so many people profess to have seen. They are generally told that they imagined these things,
yet they may really have seen them, and it is quite possible they really saw what they say
they did see; for it will always be the case that when we can only estimate the size of an
object by the angle it forms in the eye, that object will swell and grow as we approach it;
and if the spectator thought it several feet high when it was thirty or forty feet away, it
will seem very large indeed when it is a few feet off; this must indeed astonish and alarm
the spectator until he touches it and perceives what it is, for as soon as he perceives what
it is, the object which seemed so gigantic will suddenly shrink and assume its real size, but
if we run away or are afraid to approach, we shall certainly form no other idea of the thing
than the image formed in the eye, and we shall have really seen a gigantic figure of alarming
size and shape. There is, therefore, a natural ground for the tendency to see ghosts, and these
appearances are not merely the creation of the imagination, as the men of science would have
us think.--Buffon, Nat. Hist.

In the text I have tried to show that they are always partly the creation of the imagination,
and with regard to the cause explained in this quotation, it is clear that the habit of walking
by night should teach us to distinguish those appearances which similarity of form and diversity
of distance lend to the objects seen in the dark.  For if the air is light enough for us to
see the outlines there must be more air between us and them when they are further off, so that
we ought to see them less distinctly when further off, which should be enough, when we are
used to it, to prevent the error described by M. Buffon. [Whichever explanation you prefer,
my mode of procedure is still efficacious, and experience entirely confirms it.] Accustomed
to perceive things from a distance and to calculate their effects, how can I help supposing,
when I cannot see, that there are hosts of creatures and all sorts of movements all about me
which may do me harm, and against which I cannot protect myself? In vain do I know I am safe
where I am; I am never so sure of it as when I can actually see it, so that I have always a
cause for fear which did not exist in broad daylight. I know, indeed, that a foreign body can
scarcely act upon me without some slight sound, and how intently I listen! At the least sound
which I cannot explain, the desire of self-preservation makes me picture everything that would
put me on my guard, and therefore everything most calculated to alarm me.

I am just as uneasy if I hear no sound, for I might be taken unawares without a sound. I must
picture things as they were before, as they ought to be; I must see what I do not see. Thus
driven to exercise my imagination, it soon becomes my master, and what I did to reassure myself
only alarms me more. I hear a noise, it is a robber; I hear nothing, it is a ghost. The watchfulness
inspired by the instinct of self-preservation only makes me more afraid.  Everything that ought
to reassure me exists only for my reason, and the voice of instinct is louder than that of
reason. What is the good of thinking there is nothing to be afraid of, since in that case there
is nothing we can do?

The cause indicates the cure. In everything habit overpowers imagination; it is only aroused
by what is new. It is no longer imagination, but memory which is concerned with what we see
every day, and that is the reason of the maxim, "Ab assuetis non fit passio," for it is only
at the flame of imagination that the passions are kindled. Therefore do not argue with any
one whom you want to cure of the fear of darkness; take him often into dark places and be assured
this practice will be of more avail than all the arguments of philosophy. The tiler on the
roof does not know what it is to be dizzy, and those who are used to the dark will not be afraid.

There is another advantage to be gained from our games in the dark. But if these games are
to be a success I cannot speak too strongly of the need for gaiety. Nothing is so gloomy as
the dark: do not shut your child up in a dungeon, let him laugh when he goes, into a dark place,
let him laugh when he comes out, so that the thought of the game he is leaving and the games
he will play next may protect him from the fantastic imagination which might lay hold on him.

There comes a stage in life beyond which we progress backwards. I feel I have reached this
stage. I am, so to speak, returning to a past career. The approach of age makes us recall the
happy days of our childhood. As I grow old I become a child again, and I recall more readily
what I did at ten than at thirty. Reader, forgive me if I sometimes draw my examples from my
own experience. If this book is to be well written, I must enjoy writing it.

I was living in the country with a pastor called M. Lambercier. My companion was a cousin richer
than myself, who was regarded as the heir to some property, while I, far from my father, was
but a poor orphan. My big cousin Bernard was unusually timid, especially at night. I laughed
at his fears, till M. Lambercier was tired of my boasting, and determined to put my courage
to the proof. One autumn evening, when it was very dark, he gave me the church key, and told
me to go and fetch a Bible he had left in the pulpit. To put me on my mettle he said something
which made it impossible for me to refuse.

I set out without a light; if I had had one, it would perhaps have been even worse. I had to
pass through the graveyard; I crossed it bravely, for as long as I was in the open air I was
never afraid of the dark.

As I opened the door I heard a sort of echo in the roof; it sounded like voices and it began
to shake my Roman courage. Having opened the door I tried to enter, but when I had gone a few
steps I stopped. At the sight of the profound darkness in which the vast building lay I was
seized with terror and my hair stood on end. I turned, I went out through the door, and took
to my heels. In the yard I found a little dog, called Sultan, whose caresses reassured me.
Ashamed of my fears, I retraced my steps, trying to take Sultan with me, but he refused to
follow. Hurriedly I opened the door and entered the church. I was hardly inside when terror
again got hold of me and so firmly that I lost my head, and though the pulpit was on the right,
as I very well knew, I sought it on the left, and entangling myself among the benches I was
completely lost. Unable to find either pulpit or door, I fell into an indescribable state of
mind. At last I found the door and managed to get out of the church and run away as I had done
before, quite determined never to enter the church again except in broad daylight.

I returned to the house; on the doorstep I heard M. Lambercier laughing, laughing, as I supposed,
at me. Ashamed to face his laughter, I was hesitating to open the door, when I heard Miss Lambercier,
who was anxious about me, tell the maid to get the lantern, and M. Lambercier got ready to
come and look for me, escorted by my gallant cousin, who would have got all the credit for
the expedition. All at once my fears departed, and left me merely surprised at my terror. I
ran, I fairly flew, to the church; without losing my way, without groping about, I reached
the pulpit, took the Bible, and ran down the steps. In three strides I was out of the church,
leaving the door open. Breathless, I entered the room and threw the Bible on the table, frightened
indeed, but throbbing with pride that I had done it without the proposed assistance.

You will ask if I am giving this anecdote as an example, and as an illustration, of the mirth
which I say should accompany these games.  Not so, but I give it as a proof that there is nothing
so well calculated to reassure any one who is afraid in the dark as to hear sounds of laughter
and talking in an adjoining room. Instead of playing alone with your pupil in the evening,
I would have you get together a number of merry children; do not send them alone to begin with,
but several together, and do not venture to send any one quite alone, until you are quite certain
beforehand that he will not be too frightened.

I can picture nothing more amusing and more profitable than such games, considering how little
skill is required to organise them. In a large room I should arrange a sort of labyrinth of
tables, armchairs, chairs, and screens. In the inextricable windings of this labyrinth I should
place some eight or ten sham boxes, and one real box almost exactly like them, but well filled
with sweets. I should describe clearly and briefly the place where the right box would be found.
I should give instructions sufficient to enable people more attentive and less excitable than
children to find it. [Footnote: To practise them in attention, only tell them things which
it is clearly to their present interest that they should understand thoroughly; above all be
brief, never say a word more than necessary. But neither let your speech be obscure nor of
doubtful meaning.] Then having made the little competitors draw lots, I should send first one
and then another till the right box was found.  I should increase the difficulty of the task
in proportion to their skill.

Picture to yourself a youthful Hercules returning, box in hand, quite proud of his expedition.
The box is placed on the table and opened with great ceremony. I can hear the bursts of laughter
and the shouts of the merry party when, instead of the looked-for sweets, he finds, neatly
arranged on moss or cotton-wool, a beetle, a snail, a bit of coal, a few acorns, a turnip,
or some such thing.  Another time in a newly whitewashed room, a toy or some small article
of furniture would be hung on the wall and the children would have to fetch it without touching
the wall. When the child who fetches it comes back, if he has failed ever so little to fulfil
the conditions, a dab of white on the brim of his cap, the tip of his shoe, the flap of his
coat or his sleeve, will betray his lack of skill.

This is enough, or more than enough, to show the spirit of these games. Do not read my book
if you expect me to tell you everything.

What great advantages would be possessed by a man so educated, when compared with others. His
feet are accustomed to tread firmly in the dark, and his hands to touch lightly; they will
guide him safely in the thickest darkness. His imagination is busy with the evening games of
his childhood, and will find it difficult to turn towards objects of alarm. If he thinks he
hears laughter, it will be the laughter of his former playfellows, not of frenzied spirits;
if he thinks there is a host of people, it will not be the witches' sabbath, but the party
in his tutor's study. Night only recalls these cheerful memories, and it will never alarm him;
it will inspire delight rather than fear. He will be ready for a military expedition at any
hour, with or without his troop. He will enter the camp of Saul, he will find his way, he will
reach the king's tent without waking any one, and he will return unobserved. Are the steeds
of Rhesus to be stolen, you may trust him. You will scarcely find a Ulysses among men educated
in any other fashion.

I have known people who tried to train the children not to fear the dark by startling them.
This is a very bad plan; its effects are just the opposite of those desired, and it only makes
children more timid. Neither reason nor habit can secure us from the fear of a present danger
whose degree and kind are unknown, nor from the fear of surprises which we have often experienced.
Yet how will you make sure that you can preserve your pupil from such accidents? I consider
this the best advice to give him beforehand. I should say to Emile, "This is a matter of self-defence,
for the aggressor does not let you know whether he means to hurt or frighten you, and as the
advantage is on his side you cannot even take refuge in flight.  Therefore seize boldly anything,
whether man or beast, which takes you unawares in the dark. Grasp it, squeeze it with all your
might; if it struggles, strike, and do not spare your blows; and whatever he may say or do,
do not let him go till you know just who he is.  The event will probably prove that you had
little to be afraid of, but this way of treating practical jokers would naturally prevent their
trying it again."

Although touch is the sense oftenest used, its discrimination remains, as I have already pointed
out, coarser and more imperfect than that of any other sense, because we always use sight along
with it; the eye perceives the thing first, and the mind almost always judges without the hand.
On the other hand, discrimination by touch is the surest just because of its limitations; for
extending only as far as our hands can reach, it corrects the hasty judgments of the other
senses, which pounce upon objects scarcely perceived, while what we learn by touch is learnt
thoroughly. Moreover, touch, when required, unites the force of our muscles to the action of
the nerves; we associate by simultaneous sensations our ideas of temperature, size, and shape,
to those of weight and density. Thus touch is the sense which best teaches us the action of
foreign bodies upon ourselves, the sense which most directly supplies us with the knowledge
required for self-preservation.

As the trained touch takes the place of sight, why should it not, to some extent, take the
place of hearing, since sounds set up, in sonorous bodies, vibrations perceptible by touch?
By placing the hand on the body of a 'cello one can distinguish without the use of eye or ear,
merely by the way in which the wood vibrates and trembles, whether the sound given out is sharp
or flat, whether it is drawn from the treble string or the bass. If our touch were trained
to note these differences, no doubt we might in time become so sensitive as to hear a whole
tune by means of our fingers. But if we admit this, it is clear that one could easily speak
to the deaf by means of music; for tone and measure are no less capable of regular combination
than voice and articulation, so that they might be used as the elements of speech.

There are exercises by which the sense of touch is blunted and deadened, and others which sharpen
it and make it delicate and discriminating. The former, which employ much movement and force
for the continued impression of hard bodies, make the skin hard and thick, and deprive it of
its natural sensitiveness. The latter are those which give variety to this feeling, by slight
and repeated contact, so that the mind is attentive to constantly recurring impressions, and
readily learns to discern their variations. This difference is clear in the use of musical
instruments. The harsh and painful touch of the 'cello, bass-viol, and even of the violin,
hardens the finger-tips, although it gives flexibility to the fingers. The soft and smooth
touch of the harpsichord makes the fingers both flexible and sensitive. In this respect the
harpsichord is to be preferred.

The skin protects the rest of the body, so it is very important to harden it to the effects
of the air that it may be able to bear its changes. With regard to this I may say I would not
have the hand roughened by too servile application to the same kind of work, nor should the
skin of the hand become hardened so as to lose its delicate sense of touch which keeps the
body informed of what is going on, and by the kind of contact sometimes makes us shudder in
different ways even in the dark.

Why should my pupil be always compelled to wear the skin of an ox under his foot? What harm
would come of it if his own skin could serve him at need as a sole. It is clear that a delicate
skin could never be of any use in this way, and may often do harm. The Genevese, aroused at
midnight by their enemies in the depth of winter, seized their guns rather than their shoes.
Who can tell whether the town would have escaped capture if its citizens had not been able
to go barefoot?

Let a man be always fore-armed against the unforeseen. Let Emile run about barefoot all the
year round, upstairs, downstairs, and in the garden. Far from scolding him, I shall follow
his example; only I shall be careful to remove any broken glass. I shall soon proceed to speak
of work and manual occupations. Meanwhile, let him learn to perform every exercise which encourages
agility of body; let him learn to hold himself easily and steadily in any position, let him
practise jumping and leaping, climbing trees and walls. Let him always find his balance, and
let his every movement and gesture be regulated by the laws of weight, long before he learns
to explain them by the science of statics. By the way his foot is planted on the ground, and
his body supported on his leg, he ought to know if he is holding himself well or ill. An easy
carriage is always graceful, and the steadiest positions are the most elegant. If I were a
dancing master I would refuse to play the monkey tricks of Marcel, which are only fit for the
stage where they are performed; but instead of keeping my pupil busy with fancy steps, I would
take him to the foot of a cliff. There I would show him how to hold himself, how to carry his
body and head, how to place first a foot then a hand, to follow lightly the steep, toilsome,
and rugged paths, to leap from point to point, either up or down. He should emulate the mountain-goat,
not the ballet dancer.

As touch confines its operations to the man's immediate surroundings, so sight extends its
range beyond them; it is this which makes it misleading; man sees half his horizon at a glance.
In the midst of this host of simultaneous impressions and the thoughts excited by them, how
can he fail now and then to make mistakes? Thus sight is the least reliable of our senses,
just because it has the widest range; it functions long before our other senses, and its work
is too hasty and on too large a scale to be corrected by the rest. Moreover, the very illusions
of perspective are necessary if we are to arrive at a knowledge of space and compare one part
of space with another. Without false appearances we should never see anything at a distance;
without the gradations of size and tone we could not judge of distance, or rather distance
would have no existence for us. If two trees, one of which was a hundred paces from us and
the other ten, looked equally large and distinct, we should think they were side by side. If
we perceived the real dimensions of things, we should know nothing of space; everything would
seem close to our eyes.

The angle formed between any objects and our eye is the only means by which our sight estimates
their size and distance, and as this angle is the simple effect of complex causes, the judgment
we form does not distinguish between the several causes; we are compelled to be inaccurate.
For how can I tell, by sight alone, whether the angle at which an object appears to me smaller
than another, indicates that it is really smaller or that it is further off.

Here we must just reverse our former plan. Instead of simplifying the sensation, always reinforce
it and verify it by means of another sense. Subject the eye to the hand, and, so to speak,
restrain the precipitation of the former sense by the slower and more reasoned pace of the
latter. For want of this sort of practice our sight measurements are very imperfect. We cannot
correctly, and at a glance, estimate height, length, breadth, and distance; and the fact that
engineers, surveyors, architects, masons, and painters are generally quicker to see and better
able to estimate distances correctly, proves that the fault is not in our eyes, but in our
use of them. Their occupations give them the training we lack, and they check the equivocal
results of the angle of vision by its accompanying experiences, which determine the relations
of the two causes of this angle for their eyes.

Children will always do anything that keeps them moving freely. There are countless ways of
rousing their interest in measuring, perceiving, and estimating distance. There is a very tall
cherry tree; how shall we gather the cherries? Will the ladder in the barn be big enough? There
is a wide stream; how shall we get to the other side? Would one of the wooden planks in the
yard reach from bank to bank? From our windows we want to fish in the moat; how many yards
of line are required? I want to make a swing between two trees; will two fathoms of cord be
enough? They tell me our room in the new house will be twenty-five feet square; do you think
it will be big enough for us? Will it be larger than this? We are very hungry; here are two
villages, which can we get to first for our dinner?

An idle, lazy child was to be taught to run. He had no liking for this or any other exercise,
though he was intended for the army. Somehow or other he had got it into his head that a man
of his rank need know nothing and do nothing--that his birth would serve as a substitute for
arms and legs, as well as for every kind of virtue. The skill of Chiron himself would have
failed to make a fleet-footed Achilles of this young gentleman. The difficulty was increased
by my determination to give him no kind of orders. I had renounced all right to direct him
by preaching, promises, threats, emulation, or the desire to show off. How should I make him
want to run without saying anything? I might run myself, but he might not follow my example,
and this plan had other drawbacks. Moreover, I must find some means of teaching him through
this exercise, so as to train mind and body to work together. This is how I, or rather how
the teacher who supplied me with this illustration, set about it.

When I took him a walk of an afternoon I sometimes put in my pocket a couple of cakes, of a
kind he was very fond of; we each ate one while we were out, and we came back well pleased
with our outing. One day he noticed I had three cakes; he could have easily eaten six, so he
ate his cake quickly and asked for the other. "No," said I, "I could eat it myself, or we might
divide it, but I would rather see those two little boys run a race for it." I called them to
us, showed them the cake, and suggested that they should race for it.  They were delighted.
The cake was placed on a large stone which was to be the goal; the course was marked out, we
sat down, and at a given signal off flew the children! The victor seized the cake and ate it
without pity in the sight of the spectators and of his defeated rival.

The sport was better than the cake; but the lesson did not take effect all at once, and produced
no result. I was not discouraged, nor did I hurry; teaching is a trade at which one must be
able to lose time and save it. Our walks were continued, sometimes we took three cakes, sometimes
four, and from time to time there were one or two cakes for the racers. If the prize was not
great, neither was the ambition of the competitors. The winner was praised and petted, and
everything was done with much ceremony. To give room to run and to add interest to the race
I marked out a longer course and admitted several fresh competitors. Scarcely had they entered
the lists than all the passers-by stopped to watch. They were encouraged by shouting, cheering,
and clapping. I sometimes saw my little man trembling with excitement, jumping up and shouting
when one was about to reach or overtake another--to him these were the Olympian games.

However, the competitors did not always play fair, they got in each other's way, or knocked
one another down, or put stones on the track. That led us to separate them and make them start
from different places at equal distances from the goal. You will soon see the reason for this,
for I must describe this important affair at length.

Tired of seeing his favourite cakes devoured before his eyes, the young lord began to suspect
that there was some use in being a quick runner, and seeing that he had two legs of his own,
he began to practise running on the quiet. I took care to see nothing, but I knew my stratagem
had taken effect. When he thought he was good enough (and I thought so too), he pretended to
tease me to give him the other cake. I refused; he persisted, and at last he said angrily,
"Well, put it on the stone and mark out the course, and we shall see." "Very good," said I,
laughing, "You will get a good appetite, but you will not get the cake." Stung by my mockery,
he took heart, won the prize, all the more easily because I had marked out a very short course
and taken care that the best runner was out of the way. It will be evident that, after the
first step, I had no difficulty in keeping him in training. Soon he took such a fancy for this
form of exercise that without any favour he was almost certain to beat the little peasant boys
at running, however long the course.

The advantage thus obtained led unexpectedly to another. So long as he seldom won the prize,
he ate it himself like his rivals, but as he got used to victory he grew generous, and often
shared it with the defeated. That taught me a lesson in morals and I saw what was the real
root of generosity.

While I continued to mark out a different starting place for each competitor, he did not notice
that I had made the distances unequal, so that one of them, having farther to run to reach
the goal, was clearly at a disadvantage. But though I left the choice to my pupil he did not
know how to take advantage of it. Without thinking of the distance, he always chose the smoothest
path, so that I could easily predict his choice, and could almost make him win or lose the
cake at my pleasure. I had more than one end in view in this stratagem; but as my plan was
to get him to notice the difference himself, I tried to make him aware of it. Though he was
generally lazy and easy going, he was so eager in his sports and trusted me so completely that
I had great difficulty in making him see that I was cheating him. When at last I managed to
make him see it in spite of his excitement, he was angry with me. "What have you to complain
of?" said I. "In a gift which I propose to give of my own free will am not I master of the
conditions? Who makes you run? Did I promise to make the courses equal? Is not the choice yours?
Do not you see that I am favouring you, and that the inequality you complain of is all to your
advantage, if you knew how to use it?" That was plain to him; and to choose he must observe
more carefully. At first he wanted to count the paces, but a child measures paces slowly and
inaccurately; moreover, I decided to have several races on one day; and the game having become
a sort of passion with the child, he was sorry to waste in measuring the portion of time intended
for running. Such delays are not in accordance with a child's impatience; he tried therefore
to see better and to reckon the distance more accurately at sight. It was now quite easy to
extend and develop this power. At length, after some months' practice, and the correction of
his errors, I so trained his power of judging at sight that I had only to place an imaginary
cake on any distant object and his glance was nearly as accurate as the surveyor's chain.

Of all the senses, sight is that which we can least distinguish from the judgments of the mind;
as it takes a long time to learn to see.  It takes a long time to compare sight and touch,
and to train the former sense to give a true report of shape and distance. Without touch, without
progressive motion, the sharpest eyes in the world could give us no idea of space. To the oyster
the whole world must seem a point, and it would seem nothing more to it even if it had a human
mind. It is only by walking, feeling, counting, measuring the dimensions of things, that we
learn to judge them rightly; but, on the other hand, if we were always measuring, our senses
would trust to the instrument and would never gain confidence. Nor must the child pass abruptly
from measurement to judgment; he must continue to compare the parts when he could not compare
the whole; he must substitute his estimated aliquot parts for exact aliquot parts, and instead
of always applying the measure by hand he must get used to applying it by eye alone. I would,
however, have his first estimates tested by measurement, so that he may correct his errors,
and if there is a false impression left upon the senses he may correct it by a better judgment.
The same natural standards of measurement are in use almost everywhere, the man's foot, the
extent of his outstretched arms, his height. When the child wants to measure the height of
a room, his tutor may serve as a measuring rod; if he is estimating the height of a steeple
let him measure it by the house; if he wants to know how many leagues of road there are, let
him count the hours spent in walking along it. Above all, do not do this for him; let him do
it himself.

One cannot learn to estimate the extent and size of bodies without at the same time learning
to know and even to copy their shape; for at bottom this copying depends entirely on the laws
of perspective, and one cannot estimate distance without some feeling for these laws. All children
in the course of their endless imitation try to draw; and I would have Emile cultivate this
art; not so much for art's sake, as to give him exactness of eye and flexibility of hand. Generally
speaking, it matters little whether he is acquainted with this or that occupation, provided
he gains clearness of sense--perception and the good bodily habits which belong to the exercise
in question. So I shall take good care not to provide him with a drawing master, who would
only set him to copy copies and draw from drawings. Nature should be his only teacher, and
things his only models. He should have the real thing before his eyes, not its copy on paper.
Let him draw a house from a house, a tree from a tree, a man from a man; so that he may train
himself to observe objects and their appearance accurately and not to take false and conventional
copies for truth. I would even train him to draw only from objects actually before him and
not from memory, so that, by repeated observation, their exact form may be impressed on his
imagination, for fear lest he should substitute absurd and fantastic forms for the real truth
of things, and lose his sense of proportion and his taste for the beauties of nature.

Of course I know that in this way he will make any number of daubs before he produces anything
recognisable, that it will be long before he attains to the graceful outline and light touch
of the draughtsman; perhaps he will never have an eye for picturesque effect or a good taste
in drawing. On the other hand, he will certainly get a truer eye, a surer hand, a knowledge
of the real relations of form and size between animals, plants, and natural objects, together
with a quicker sense of the effects of perspective. That is just what I wanted, and my purpose
is rather that he should know things than copy them. I would rather he showed me a plant of
acanthus even if he drew a capital with less accuracy.

Moreover, in this occupation as in others, I do not intend my pupil to play by himself; I mean
to make it pleasanter for him by always sharing it with him. He shall have no other rival;
but mine will be a continual rivalry, and there will be no risk attaching to it; it will give
interest to his pursuits without awaking jealousy between us. I shall follow his example and
take up a pencil; at first I shall use it as unskilfully as he. I should be an Apelles if I
did not set myself daubing. To begin with, I shall draw a man such as lads draw on walls, a
line for each arm, another for each leg, with the fingers longer than the arm. Long after,
one or other of us will notice this lack of proportion; we shall observe that the leg is thick,
that this thickness varies, that the length of the arm is proportionate to the body. In this
improvement I shall either go side by side with my pupil, or so little in advance that he will
always overtake me easily and sometimes get ahead of me. We shall get brushes and paints, we
shall try to copy the colours of things and their whole appearance, not merely their shape.
We shall colour prints, we shall paint, we shall daub; but in all our daubing we shall be searching
out the secrets of nature, and whatever we do shall be done under the eye of that master.

We badly needed ornaments for our room, and now we have them ready to our hand. I will have
our drawings framed and covered with good glass, so that no one will touch them, and thus seeing
them where we put them, each of us has a motive for taking care of his own. I arrange them
in order round the room, each drawing repeated some twenty or thirty times, thus showing the
author's progress in each specimen, from the time when the house is merely a rude square, till
its front view, its side view, its proportions, its light and shade are all exactly portrayed.
These graduations will certainly furnish us with pictures, a source of interest to ourselves
and of curiosity to others, which will spur us on to further emulation. The first and roughest
drawings I put in very smart gilt frames to show them off; but as the copy becomes more accurate
and the drawing really good, I only give it a very plain dark frame; it needs no other ornament
than itself, and it would be a pity if the frame distracted the attention which the picture
itself deserves. Thus we each aspire to a plain frame, and when we desire to pour scorn on
each other's drawings, we condemn them to a gilded frame. Some day perhaps "the gilt frame"
will become a proverb among us, and we shall be surprised to find how many people show what
they are really made of by demanding a gilt frame.

I have said already that geometry is beyond the child's reach; but that is our own fault. We
fail to perceive that their method is not ours, that what is for us the art of reasoning, should
be for them the art of seeing. Instead of teaching them our way, we should do better to adopt
theirs, for our way of learning geometry is quite as much a matter of imagination as of reasoning.
When a proposition is enunciated you must imagine the proof; that is, you must discover on
what proposition already learnt it depends, and of all the possible deductions from that proposition
you must choose just the one required.

In this way the closest reasoner, if he is not inventive, may find himself at a loss. What
is the result? Instead of making us discover proofs, they are dictated to us; instead of teaching
us to reason, our memory only is employed.

Draw accurate figures, combine them together, put them one upon another, examine their relations,
and you will discover the whole of elementary geometry in passing from one observation to another,
without a word of definitions, problems, or any other form of demonstration but super-position.
I do not profess to teach Emile geometry; he will teach me; I shall seek for relations, he
will find them, for I shall seek in such a fashion as to make him find. For instance, instead
of using a pair of compasses to draw a circle, I shall draw it with a pencil at the end of
bit of string attached to a pivot. After that, when I want to compare the radii one with another,
Emile will laugh at me and show me that the same thread at full stretch cannot have given distances
of unequal length. If I wish to measure an angle of 60 degrees I describe from the apex of
the angle, not an arc, but a complete circle, for with children nothing must be taken for granted.
I find that the part of the circle contained between the two lines of the angle is the sixth
part of a circle. Then I describe another and larger circle from the same centre, and I find
the second arc is again the sixth part of its circle. I describe a third concentric circle
with a similar result, and I continue with more and more circles till Emile, shocked at my
stupidity, shows me that every arc, large or small, contained by the same angle will always
be the sixth part of its circle. Now we are ready to use the protractor.

To prove that two adjacent angles are equal to two right angles people describe a circle. On
the contrary I would have Emile observe the fact in a circle, and then I should say, "If we
took away the circle and left the straight lines, would the angles have changed their size, etc.?"

Exactness in the construction of figures is neglected; it is taken for granted and stress is
laid on the proof. With us, on the other hand, there will be no question of proof. Our chief
business will be to draw very straight, accurate, and even lines, a perfect square, a really
round circle. To verify the exactness of a figure we will test it by each of its sensible properties,
and that will give us a chance to discover fresh properties day by day. We will fold the two
semi-circles along the diameter, the two halves of the square by the diagonal; he will compare
our two figures to see who has got the edges to fit moat exactly, i.e., who has done it best;
we should argue whether this equal division would always be possible in parallelograms, trapezes,
etc. We shall sometimes try to forecast the result of an experiment, to find reasons, etc.

Geometry means to my scholar the successful use of the rule and compass; he must not confuse
it with drawing, in which these instruments are not used. The rule and compass will be locked
up, so that he will not get into the way of messing about with them, but we may sometimes take
our figures with us when we go for a walk, and talk over what we have done, or what we mean to do.

I shall never forget seeing a young man at Turin, who had learnt as a child the relations of
contours and surfaces by having to choose every day isoperimetric cakes among cakes of every
geometrical figure. The greedy little fellow had exhausted the art of Archimedes to find which
were the biggest.

When the child flies a kite he is training eye and hand to accuracy; when he whips a top, he
is increasing his strength by using it, but without learning anything. I have sometimes asked
why children are not given the same games of skill as men; tennis, mall, billiards, archery,
football, and musical instruments. I was told that some of these are beyond their strength,
that the child's senses are not sufficiently developed for others. These do not strike me as
valid reasons; a child is not as tall as a man, but he wears the same sort of coat; I do not
want him to play with our cues at a billiard-table three feet high; I do not want him knocking
about among our games, nor carrying one of our racquets in his little hand; but let him play
in a room whose windows have been protected; at first let him only use soft balls, let his
first racquets be of wood, then of parchment, and lastly of gut, according to his progress.
You prefer the kite because it is less tiring and there is no danger. You are doubly wrong.
Kite-flying is a sport for women, but every woman will run away from a swift ball. Their white
skins were not meant to be hardened by blows and their faces were not made for bruises. But
we men are made for strength; do you think we can attain it without hardship, and what defence
shall we be able to make if we are attacked? People always play carelessly in games where there
is no danger. A falling kite hurts nobody, but nothing makes the arm so supple as protecting
the head, nothing makes the sight so accurate as having to guard the eye. To dash from one
end of the room to another, to judge the rebound of a ball before it touches the ground, to
return it with strength and accuracy, such games are not so much sports fit for a man, as sports
fit to make a man of him.

The child's limbs, you say, are too tender. They are not so strong as those of a man, but they
are more supple. His arm is weak, still it is an arm, and it should be used with due consideration
as we use other tools. Children have no skill in the use of their hands. That is just why I
want them to acquire skill; a man with as little practice would be just as clumsy. We can only
learn the use of our limbs by using them. It is only by long experience that we learn to make
the best of ourselves, and this experience is the real object of study to which we cannot apply
ourselves too early.

What is done can be done. Now there is nothing commoner than to find nimble and skilful children
whose limbs are as active as those of a man. They may be seen at any fair, swinging, walking
on their hands, jumping, dancing on the tight rope. For many years past, troops of children
have attracted spectators to the ballets at the Italian Comedy House. Who is there in Germany
and Italy who has not heard of the famous pantomime company of Nicolini? Has it ever occurred
to any one that the movements of these children were less finished, their postures less graceful,
their ears less true, their dancing more clumsy than those of grown-up dancers? If at first
the fingers are thick, short, and awkward, the dimpled hands unable to grasp anything, does
this prevent many children from learning to read and write at an age when others cannot even
hold a pen or pencil? All Paris still recalls the little English girl of ten who did wonders
on the harpsichord. I once saw a little fellow of eight, the son of a magistrate, who was set
like a statuette on the table among the dishes, to play on a fiddle almost as big as himself,
and even artists were surprised at his execution.

To my mind, these and many more examples prove that the supposed incapacity of children for
our games is imaginary, and that if they are unsuccessful in some of them, it is for want of
practice.

You will tell me that with regard to the body I am falling into the same mistake of precocious
development which I found fault with for the mind. The cases are very different: in the one,
progress is apparent only; in the other it is real. I have shown that children have not the
mental development they appear to have, while they really do what they seem to do. Besides,
we must never forget that all this should be play, the easy and voluntary control of the movements
which nature demands of them, the art of varying their games to make them pleasanter, without
the least bit of constraint to transform them into work; for what games do they play in which
I cannot find material for instruction for them? And even if I could not do so, so long as
they are amusing themselves harmlessly and passing the time pleasantly, their progress in learning
is not yet of such great importance. But if one must be teaching them this or that at every
opportunity, it cannot be done without constraint, vexation, or tedium.

What I have said about the use of the two senses whose use is most constant and most important,
may serve as an example of how to train the rest. Sight and touch are applied to bodies at
rest and bodies in motion, but as hearing is only affected by vibrations of the air, only a
body in motion can make a noise or sound; if everything were at rest we should never hear.
At night, when we ourselves only move as we choose, we have nothing to fear but moving bodies;
hence we need a quick ear, and power to judge from the sensations experienced whether the body
which causes them is large or small, far off or near, whether its movements are gentle or violent.
When once the air is set in motion, it is subject to repercussions which produce echoes, these
renew the sensations and make us hear a loud or penetrating sound in another quarter. If you
put your ear to the ground you may hear the sound of men's voices or horses' feet in a plain
or valley much further off than when you stand upright.

As we have made a comparison between sight and touch, it will be as well to do the same for
hearing, and to find out which of the two impressions starting simultaneously from a given
body first reaches the sense-organ. When you see the flash of a cannon, you have still time
to take cover; but when you hear the sound it is too late, the ball is close to you. One can
reckon the distance of a thunderstorm by the interval between the lightning and the thunder.
Let the child learn all these facts, let him learn those that are within his reach by experiment,
and discover the rest by induction; but I would far rather he knew nothing at all about them,
than that you should tell him.

In the voice we have an organ answering to hearing; we have no such organ answering to sight,
and we do not repeat colours as we repeat sounds. This supplies an additional means of cultivating
the ear by practising the active and passive organs one with the other. The child has these
three voices, just as the man has them, but he does not know how to use them in combination.
Like us, he laughs, cries, laments, shrieks, and groans, but he does not know how to combine
these inflexions with speech or song. These three voices find their best expression in perfect
music. Children are incapable of such music, and their singing lacks feeling. In the same way
their spoken language lacks expression; they shout, but they do not speak with emphasis, and
there is as little power in their voice as there is emphasis in their speech. Our pupil's speech
will be plainer and simpler still, for his passions are still asleep, and will not blend their
tones with his. Do not, therefore, set him to recite tragedy or comedy, nor try to teach declamation
so-called. He will have too much sense to give voice to things he cannot understand, or expression
to feelings he has never known.

Teach him to speak plainly and distinctly, to articulate clearly, to pronounce correctly and
without affectation, to perceive and imitate the right accent in prose and verse, and always
to speak loud enough to be heard, but without speaking too loud--a common fault with school-children.
Let there be no waste in anything.

The same method applies to singing; make his voice smooth and true, flexible and full, his
ear alive to time and tune, but nothing more. Descriptive and theatrical music is not suitable
at his age----I would rather he sang no words; if he must have words, I would try to compose
songs on purpose for him, songs interesting to a child, and as simple as his own thoughts.

You may perhaps suppose that as I am in no hurry to teach Emile to read and write, I shall
not want to teach him to read music. Let us spare his brain the strain of excessive attention,
and let us be in no hurry to turn his mind towards conventional signs. I grant you there seems
to be a difficulty here, for if at first sight the knowledge of notes seems no more necessary
for singing than the knowledge of letters for speaking, there is really this difference between
them: When we speak, we are expressing our own thoughts; when we sing we are expressing the
thoughts of others. Now in order to express them we must read them.

But at first we can listen to them instead of reading them, and a song is better learnt by
ear than by eye. Moreover, to learn music thoroughly we must make songs as well as sing them,
and the two processes must be studied together, or we shall never have any real knowledge of
music. First give your young musician practice in very regular, well-cadenced phrases; then
let him connect these phrases with the very simplest modulations; then show him their relation
one to another by correct accent, which can be done by a fit choice of cadences and rests.
On no account give him anything unusual, or anything that requires pathos or expression. A
simple, tuneful air, always based on the common chords of the key, with its bass so clearly
indicated that it is easily felt and accompanied, for to train his voice and ear he should
always sing with the harpsichord.

We articulate the notes we sing the better to distinguish them; hence the custom of sol-faing
with certain syllables. To tell the keys one from another they must have names and fixed intervals;
hence the names of the intervals, and also the letters of the alphabet attached to the keys
of the clavier and the notes of the scale. C and A indicate fixed sounds, invariable and always
rendered by the same keys; Ut and La are different. Ut is always the dominant of a major scale,
or the leading-note of a minor scale. La is always the dominant of a minor scale or the sixth
of a major scale. Thus the letters indicate fixed terms in our system of music, and the syllables
indicate terms homologous to the similar relations in different keys. The letters show the
keys on the piano, and the syllables the degrees in the scale. French musicians have made a
strange muddle of this. They have confused the meaning of the syllables with that of the letters,
and while they have unnecessarily given us two sets of symbols for the keys of the piano, they
have left none for the chords of the scales; so that Ut and C are always the same for them;
this is not and ought not to be; if so, what is the use of C? Their method of sol-faing is,
therefore, extremely and needlessly difficult, neither does it give any clear idea to the mind;
since, by this method, Ut and Me, for example, may mean either a major third, a minor third,
an augmented third, or a diminished third. What a strange thing that the country which produces
the finest books about music should be the very country where it is hardest to learn music!

Let us adopt a simpler and clearer plan with our pupil; let him have only two scales whose
relations remain unchanged, and indicated by the same symbols. Whether he sings or plays, let
him learn to fix his scale on one of the twelve tones which may serve as a base, and whether
he modulates in D, C, or G, let the close be always Ut or La, according to the scale. In this
way he will understand what you mean, and the essential relations for correct singing and playing
will always be present in his mind; his execution will be better and his progress quicker.
There is nothing funnier than what the French call "natural sol-faing;" it consists in removing
the real meaning of things and putting in their place other meanings which only distract us.
There is nothing more natural than sol-faing by transposition, when the scale is transposed.
But I have said enough, and more than enough, about music; teach it as you please, so long
as it is nothing but play.

We are now thoroughly acquainted with the condition of foreign bodies in relation to our own,
their weight, form, colour, density, size, distance, temperature, stability, or motion. We
have learnt which of them to approach or avoid, how to set about overcoming their resistance
or to resist them so as to prevent ourselves from injury; but this is not enough. Our own body
is constantly wasting and as constantly requires to be renewed. Although we have the power
of changing other substances into our own, our choice is not a matter of indifference. Everything
is not food for man, and what may be food for him is not all equally suitable; it depends on
his racial constitution, the country he lives in, his individual temperament, and the way of
living which his condition demands.

If we had to wait till experience taught us to know and choose fit food for ourselves, we should
die of hunger or poison; but a kindly providence which has made pleasure the means of self-preservation
to sentient beings teaches us through our palate what is suitable for our stomach. In a state
of nature there is no better doctor than a man's own appetite, and no doubt in a state of nature
man could find the most palateable food the most wholesome.

Nor is this all. Our Maker provides, not only for those needs he has created, but for those
we create for ourselves; and it is to keep the balance between our wants and our needs that
he has caused our tastes to change and vary with our way of living. The further we are from
a state of nature, the more we lose our natural tastes; or rather, habit becomes a second nature,
and so completely replaces our real nature, that we have lost all knowledge of it.

From this it follows that the most natural tastes should be the simplest, for those are more
easily changed; but when they are sharpened and stimulated by our fancies they assume a form
which is incapable of modification. The man who so far has not adapted himself to one country
can learn the ways of any country whatsoever; but the man who has adopted the habits of one
particular country can never shake them off.

This seems to be true of all our senses, especially of taste. Our first food is milk; we only
become accustomed by degrees to strong flavours; at first we dislike them. Fruit, vegetables,
herbs, and then fried meat without salt or seasoning, formed the feasts of primitive man. When
the savage tastes wine for the first time, he makes a grimace and spits it out; and even among
ourselves a man who has not tasted fermented liquors before twenty cannot get used to them;
we should all be sober if we did not have wine when we were children. Indeed, the simpler our
tastes are, the more general they are; made dishes are those most frequently disliked. Did
you ever meet with any one who disliked bread or water? Here is the finger of nature, this
then is our rule. Preserve the child's primitive tastes as long as possible; let his food be
plain and simple, let strong flavours be unknown to his palate, and do not let his diet be
too uniform.

I am not asking, for the present, whether this way of living is healthier or no; that is not
what I have in view. It is enough for me to know that my choice is more in accordance with
nature, and that it can be more readily adapted to other conditions. In my opinion, those who
say children should be accustomed to the food they will have when they are grown up are mistaken.
Why should their food be the same when their way of living is so different? A man worn out
by labour, anxiety, and pain needs tasty foods to give fresh vigour to his brain; a child fresh
from his games, a child whose body is growing, needs plentiful food which will supply more
chyle. Moreover the grown man has already a settled profession, occupation, and home, but who
can tell what Fate holds in store for the child? Let us not give him so fixed a bent in any
direction that he cannot change it if required without hardship. Do not bring him up so that
he would die of hunger in a foreign land if he does not take a French cook about with him;
do not let him say at some future time that France is the only country where the food is fit
to eat.  By the way, that is a strange way of praising one's country. On the other hand, I
myself should say that the French are the only people who do not know what good food is, since
they require such a special art to make their dishes eatable.

Of all our different senses, we are usually most affected by taste. Thus it concerns us more
nearly to judge aright of what will actually become part of ourselves, than of that which will
merely form part of our environment. Many things are matters of indifference to touch, hearing,
and sight; but taste is affected by almost everything. Moreover the activity of this sense
is wholly physical and material; of all the senses, it alone makes no appeal to the imagination,
or at least, imagination plays a smaller part in its sensations; while imitation and imagination
often bring morality into the impressions of the other senses. Thus, speaking generally, soft
and pleasure-loving minds, passionate and truly sensitive dispositions, which are easily stirred
by the other senses, are usually indifferent to this. From this very fact, which apparently
places taste below our other senses and makes our inclination towards it the more despicable,
I draw just the opposite conclusion--that the best way to lead children is by the mouth. Greediness
is a better motive than vanity; for the former is a natural appetite directly dependent on
the senses, while the latter is the outcome of convention, it is the slave of human caprice
and liable to every kind of abuse. Believe me the child will cease to care about his food only
too soon, and when his heart is too busy, his palate will be idle. When he is grown up greediness
will be expelled by a host of stronger passions, while vanity will only be stimulated by them;
for this latter passion feeds upon the rest till at length they are all swallowed up in it.
I have sometimes studied those men who pay great attention to good eating, men whose first
waking thought is--What shall we have to eat to-day? men who describe their dinner with as
much detail as Polybius describes a combat. I have found these so-called men were only children
of forty, without strength or vigour--fruges consumere nati. Gluttony is the vice of feeble
minds.  The gourmand has his brains in his palate, he can do nothing but eat; he is so stupid
and incapable that the table is the only place for him, and dishes are the only things he knows
anything about. Let us leave him to this business without regret; it is better for him and for us.

It is a small mind that fears lest greediness should take root in the child who is fit for
something better. The child thinks of nothing but his food, the youth pays no heed to it at
all; every kind of food is good, and we have other things to attend to. Yet I would not have
you use the low motive unwisely. I would not have you trust to dainties rather than to the
honour which is the reward of a good deed. But childhood is, or ought to be, a time of play
and merry sports, and I do not see why the rewards of purely bodily exercises should not be
material and sensible rewards. If a little lad in Majorca sees a basket on the tree-top and
brings it down with his sling, is it not fair that he should get something by this, and a good
breakfast should repair the strength spent in getting it. If a young Spartan, facing the risk
of a hundred stripes, slips skilfully into the kitchen, and steals a live fox cub, carries
it off in his garment, and is scratched, bitten till the blood comes, and for shame lest he
should be caught the child allows his bowels to be torn out without a movement or a cry, is
it not fair that he should keep his spoils, that he should eat his prey after it has eaten
him? A good meal should never be a reward; but why should it not be sometimes the result of
efforts made to get it. Emile does not consider the cake I put on the stone as a reward for
good running; he knows that the only way to get the cake is to get there first.

This does not contradict my previous rules about simple food; for to tempt a child's appetite
you need not stimulate it, you need only satisfy it; and the commonest things will do this
if you do not attempt to refine children's taste. Their perpetual hunger, the result of their
need for growth, will be the best sauce. Fruit, milk, a piece of cake just a little better
than ordinary bread, and above all the art of dispensing these things prudently, by these means
you may lead a host of children to the world's end, without on the one hand giving them a taste
for strong flavours, nor on the other hand letting them get tired of their food.

The indifference of children towards meat is one proof that the taste for meat is unnatural;
their preference is for vegetable foods, such as milk, pastry, fruit, etc. Beware of changing
this natural taste and making children flesh-eaters, if not for their health's sake, for the
sake of their character; for how can one explain away the fact that great meat-eaters are usually
fiercer and more cruel than other men; this has been recognised at all times and in all places.
The English are noted for their cruelty [Footnote: I am aware that the English make a boast
of their humanity and of the kindly disposition of their race, which they call "good-natured
people;" but in vain do they proclaim this fact; no one else says it of them.] while the Gaures
are the gentlest of men. [Footnote: The Banians, who abstain from flesh even more completely
than the Gaures, are almost as gentle as the Gaures themselves, but as their morality is less
pure and their form of worship less reasonable they are not such good men.] All savages are
cruel, and it is not their customs that tend in this direction; their cruelty is the result
of their food. They go to war as to the chase, and treat men as they would treat bears. Indeed
in England butchers are not allowed to give evidence in a court of law, no more can surgeons.
[Footnote: One of the English translators of my book has pointed out my mistake, and both of
them have corrected it. Butchers and surgeons are allowed to give evidence in the law courts,
but butchers may not serve on juries in criminal cases, though surgeons are allowed to do so.]
Great criminals prepare themselves for murder by drinking blood. Homer makes his flesh-eating
Cyclops a terrible man, while his Lotus-eaters are so delightful that those who went to trade
with them forgot even their own country to dwell among them.

"You ask me," said Plutarch, "why Pythagoras abstained from eating the flesh of beasts, but
I ask you, what courage must have been needed by the first man who raised to his lips the flesh
of the slain, who broke with his teeth the bones of a dying beast, who had dead bodies, corpses,
placed before him and swallowed down limbs which a few moments ago were bleating, bellowing,
walking, and seeing? How could his hand plunge the knife into the heart of a sentient creature,
how could his eyes look on murder, how could he behold a poor helpless animal bled to death,
scorched, and dismembered? how can he bear the sight of this quivering flesh? does not the
very smell of it turn his stomach? is he not repelled, disgusted, horror-struck, when he has
to handle the blood from these wounds, and to cleanse his fingers from the dark and viscous
bloodstains?

     "The scorched skins wriggled upon the ground,
     The shrinking flesh bellowed upon the spit.
     Man cannot eat them without a shudder;
     He seems to hear their cries within his breast.

"Thus must he have felt the first time he did despite to nature and made this horrible meal;
the first time he hungered for the living creature, and desired to feed upon the beast which
was still grazing; when he bade them slay, dismember, and cut up the sheep which licked his
hands. It is those who began these cruel feasts, not those who abandon them, who should cause
surprise, and there were excuses for those primitive men, excuses which we have not, and the
absence of such excuses multiplies our barbarity a hundredfold.

"'Mortals, beloved of the gods,' says this primitive man, 'compare our times with yours; see
how happy you are, and how wretched were we. The earth, newly formed, the air heavy with moisture,
were not yet subjected to the rule of the seasons. Three-fourths of the surface of the globe
was flooded by the ever-shifting channels of rivers uncertain of their course, and covered
with pools, lakes, and bottomless morasses. The remaining quarter was covered with woods and
barren forests. The earth yielded no good fruit, we had no instruments of tillage, we did not
even know the use of them, and the time of harvest never came for those who had sown nothing.
Thus hunger was always in our midst. In winter, mosses and the bark of trees were our common
food. A few green roots of dogs-bit or heather were a feast, and when men found beech-mast,
nuts, or acorns, they danced for joy round the beech or oak, to the sound of some rude song,
while they called the earth their mother and their nurse. This was their only festival, their
only sport; all the rest of man's life was spent in sorrow, pain, and hunger.

"'At length, when the bare and naked earth no longer offered us any food, we were compelled
in self-defence to outrage nature, and to feed upon our companions in distress, rather than
perish with them. But you, oh, cruel men! who forces you to shed blood? Behold the wealth of
good things about you, the fruits yielded by the earth, the wealth of field and vineyard; the
animals give their milk for your drink and their fleece for your clothing. What more do you
ask?  What madness compels you to commit such murders, when you have already more than you
can eat or drink? Why do you slander our mother earth, and accuse her of denying you food?
Why do you sin against Ceres, the inventor of the sacred laws, and against the gracious Bacchus,
the comforter of man, as if their lavish gifts were not enough to preserve mankind? Have you
the heart to mingle their sweet fruits with the bones upon your table, to eat with the milk
the blood of the beasts which gave it? The lions and panthers, wild beasts as you call them,
are driven to follow their natural instinct, and they kill other beasts that they may live.
But, a hundredfold fiercer than they, you fight against your instincts without cause, and abandon
yourselves to the most cruel pleasures. The animals you eat are not those who devour others;
you do not eat the carnivorous beasts, you take them as your pattern. You only hunger for the
sweet and gentle creatures which harm no one, which follow you, serve you, and are devoured
by you as the reward of their service.

"'O unnatural murderer! if you persist in the assertion that nature has made you to devour
your fellow-creatures, beings of flesh and blood, living and feeling like yourself, stifle
if you can that horror with which nature makes you regard these horrible feasts; slay the animals
yourself, slay them, I say, with your own hands, without knife or mallet; tear them with your
nails like the lion and the bear, take this ox and rend him in pieces, plunge your claws into
his hide; eat this lamb while it is yet alive, devour its warm flesh, drink its soul with its
blood. You shudder! you dare not feel the living throbbing flesh between your teeth? Ruthless
man; you begin by slaying the animal and then you devour it, as if to slay it twice. It is
not enough. You turn against the dead flesh, it revolts you, it must be transformed by fire,
boiled and roasted, seasoned and disguised with drugs; you must have butchers, cooks, turnspits,
men who will rid the murder of its horrors, who will dress the dead bodies so that the taste
deceived by these disguises will not reject what is strange to it, and will feast on corpses,
the very sight of which would sicken you.'"

Although this quotation is irrelevant, I cannot resist the temptation to transcribe it, and
I think few of my readers will resent it.

In conclusion, whatever food you give your children, provided you accustom them to nothing
but plain and simple dishes, let them eat and run and play as much as they want; you may be
sure they will never eat too much and will never have indigestion; but if you keep them hungry
half their time, when they do contrive to evade your vigilance, they will take advantage of
it as far as they can; they will eat till they are sick, they will gorge themselves till they
can eat no more. Our appetite is only excessive because we try to impose on it rules other
than those of nature, opposing, controlling, prescribing, adding, or substracting; the scales
are always in our hands, but the scales are the measure of our caprices not of our stomachs.
I return to my usual illustration; among peasants the cupboard and the apple-loft are always
left open, and indigestion is unknown alike to children and grown-up people.

If, however, it happened that a child were too great an eater, though, under my system, I think
it is impossible, he is so easily distracted by his favourite games that one might easily starve
him without his knowing it. How is it that teachers have failed to use such a safe and easy
weapon. Herodotus records that the Lydians, [Footnote: The ancient historians are full of opinions
which may be useful, even if the facts which they present are false. But we do not know how
to make any real use of history. Criticism and erudition are our only care; as if it mattered
more that a statement were true or false than that we should be able to get a useful lesson
from it. A wise man should consider history a tissue of fables whose morals are well adapted
to the human heart.] under the pressure of great scarcity, decided to invent sports and other
amusements with which to cheat their hunger, and they passed whole days without thought of
food. Your learned teachers may have read this passage time after time without seeing how it
might be applied to children. One of these teachers will probably tell me that a child does
not like to leave his dinner for his lessons. You are right, sir--I was not thinking of that
sort of sport.

The sense of smell is to taste what sight is to touch; it goes before it and gives it warning
that it will be affected by this or that substance; and it inclines it to seek or shun this
experience according to the impressions received beforehand. I have been told that savages
receive impressions quite different from ours, and that they have quite different ideas with
regard to pleasant or unpleasant odours. I can well believe it. Odours alone are slight sensations;
they affect the imagination rather than the senses, and they work mainly through the anticipations
they arouse. This being so, and the tastes of savages being so unlike the taste of civilised
men, they should lead them to form very different ideas with regard to flavours and therefore
with regard to the odours which announce them. A Tartar must enjoy the smell of a haunch of
putrid horseflesh, much as a sportsman enjoys a very high partridge. Our idle sensations, such
as the scents wafted from the flower beds, must pass unnoticed among men who walk too much
to care for strolling in a garden, and do not work enough to find pleasure in repose. Hungry
men would find little pleasure in scents which did not proclaim the approach of food.

Smell is the sense of the imagination; as it gives tone to the nerves it must have a great
effect on the brain; that is why it revives us for the time, but eventually causes exhaustion.
Its effects on love are pretty generally recognised. The sweet perfumes of a dressing-room
are not so slight a snare as you may fancy them, and I hardly know whether to congratulate
or condole with that wise and somewhat insensible person whose senses are never stirred by
the scent of the flowers his mistress wears in her bosom.

Hence the sense of smell should not be over-active in early childhood; the imagination, as
yet unstirred by changing passions, is scarcely susceptible of emotion, and we have not enough
experience to discern beforehand from one sense the promise of another. This view is confirmed
by observation, and it is certain that the sense of smell is dull and almost blunted in most
children.  Not that their sensations are less acute than those of grown-up people, but that
there is no idea associated with them; they do not easily experience pleasure or pain, and
are not flattered or hurt as we are. Without going beyond my system, and without recourse to
comparative anatomy, I think we can easily see why women are generally fonder of perfumes than men.

It is said that from early childhood the Redskins of Canada, train their sense of smell to
such a degree of subtlety that, although they have dogs, they do not condescend to use them
in hunting--they are their own dogs. Indeed I believe that if children were trained to scent
their dinner as a dog scents game, their sense of smell might be nearly as perfect; but I see
no very real advantage to be derived from this sense, except by teaching the child to observe
the relation between smell and taste. Nature has taken care to. compel us to learn these relations.
She has made the exercise of the latter sense practically inseparable from that of the former,
by placing their organs close together, and by providing, in the mouth, a direct pathway between
them, so that we taste nothing without smelling it too. Only I would not have these natural
relations disturbed in order to deceive the child, e.g.; to conceal the taste of medicine with
an aromatic odour, for the discord between the senses is too great for deception, the more
active sense overpowers.  the other, the medicine is just as distasteful, and this disagreeable
association extends to every sensation experienced at the time; so the slightest of these sensations
recalls the rest to his imagination and a very pleasant perfume is for him only a nasty smell;
thus our foolish precautions increase the sum total of his unpleasant sensations at the cost
of his pleasant sensations.

In the following books I have still to speak of the training of a sort of sixth sense, called
common-sense, not so much because it is common to all men, but because it results from the
well-regulated use of the other five, and teaches the nature of things by the sum-total of
their external aspects. So this sixth sense has no special organ, it has its seat in the brain,
and its sensations which are purely internal are called percepts or ideas. The number of these
ideas is the measure of our knowledge; exactness of thought depends on their clearness and
precision; the art of comparing them one with another is called human reason. Thus what I call
the reasoning of the senses, or the reasoning of the child, consists in the formation of simple
ideas through the associated experience of several sensations; what I call the reasoning of
the intellect, consists in the formation, of complex ideas through the association of several
simple ideas.

If my method is indeed that of nature, and if I am not mistaken in the application of that
method, we have led our pupil through the region of sensation to the bounds of the child's
reasoning; the first step we take beyond these bounds must be the step of a man. But before
we make this fresh advance, let us glance back for a moment at the path we have hitherto followed.
Every age, every station in life, has a perfection, a ripeness, of its own. We have often heard
the phrase "a grown man;" but we will consider "a grown child." This will be a new experience
and none the less pleasing.

The life of finite creatures is so poor and narrow that the mere sight of what is arouses no
emotion. It is fancy which decks reality, and if imagination does not lend its charm to that
which touches our senses, our barren pleasure is confined to the senses alone, while the heart
remains cold. The earth adorned with the treasures of autumn displays a wealth of colour which
the eye admires; but this admiration fails to move us, it springs rather from thought than
from feeling. In spring the country is almost bare and leafless, the trees give no shade, the
grass has hardly begun to grow, yet the heart is touched by the sight. In this new birth of
nature, we feel the revival of our own life; the memories of past pleasures surround us; tears
of delight, those companions of pleasure ever ready to accompany a pleasing sentiment, tremble
on our eyelids. Animated, lively, and delightful though the vintage may be, we behold it without
a tear.

And why is this? Because imagination adds to the sight of spring the image of the seasons which
are yet to come; the eye sees the tender shoot, the mind's eye beholds its flowers, fruit,
and foliage, and even the mysteries they may conceal. It blends successive stages into one
moment's experience; we see things, not so much as they will be, but as we would have them
be, for imagination has only to take her choice. In autumn, on the other hand, we only behold
the present; if we wish to look forward to spring, winter bars the way, and our shivering imagination
dies away among its frost and snow.

This is the source of the charm we find in beholding the beauties of childhood, rather than
the perfection of manhood. When do we really delight in beholding a man? When the memory of
his deeds leads us to look back over his life and his youth is renewed in our eyes. If we are
reduced to viewing him as he is, or to picturing him as he will be in old age, the thought
of declining years destroys all our pleasure. There is no pleasure in seeing a man hastening
to his grave; the image of death makes all hideous.

But when I think of a child of ten or twelve, strong, healthy, well-grown for his age, only
pleasant thoughts are called up, whether of the present or the future. I see him keen, eager,
and full of life, free from gnawing cares and painful forebodings, absorbed in this present
state, and delighting in a fullness of life which seems to extend beyond himself. I look forward
to a time when he will use his daily increasing sense, intelligence and vigour, those growing
powers of which he continually gives fresh proof. I watch the child with delight, I picture
to myself the man with even greater pleasure. His eager life seems to stir my own pulses, I
seem to live his life and in his vigour I renew my own.

The hour strikes, the scene is changed. All of a sudden his eye grows dim, his mirth has fled.
Farewell mirth, farewell untrammelled sports in which he delighted. A stern, angry man takes
him by the hand, saying gravely, "Come with me, sir," and he is led away. As they are entering
the room, I catch a glimpse of books. Books, what dull food for a child of his age! The poor
child allows himself to be dragged away; he casts a sorrowful look on all about him, and departs
in silence, his eyes swollen with the tears he dare not shed, and his heart bursting with the
sighs he dare not utter.

You who have no such cause for fear, you for whom no period of life is a time of weariness
and tedium, you who welcome days without care and nights without impatience, you who only reckon
time by your pleasures, come, my happy kindly pupil, and console us for the departure of that
miserable creature. Come! Here he is and at his approach I feel a thrill of delight which I
see he shares. It is his friend, his comrade, who meets him; when he sees me he knows very
well that he will not be long without amusement; we are never dependent on each other, but
we are always on good terms, and we are never so happy as when together.

His face, his bearing, his expression, speak of confidence and contentment; health shines in
his countenance, his firm step speaks of strength; his colour, delicate but not sickly, has
nothing of softness or effeminacy. Sun and wind have already set the honourable stamp of manhood
on his countenance; his rounded muscles already begin to show some signs of growing individuality;
his eyes, as yet unlighted by the flame of feeling, have at least all their native calm; They
have not been darkened by prolonged sorrow, nor are his cheeks furrowed by ceaseless tears.
Behold in his quick and certain movements the natural vigour of his age and the confidence
of independence. His manner is free and open, but without a trace of insolence or vanity; his
head which has not been bent over books does not fall upon his breast; there is no need to
say, "Hold your head up," he will neither hang his head for shame or fear.

Make room for him, gentlemen, in your midst; question him boldly; have no fear of importunity,
chatter, or impertinent questions. You need not be afraid that he will take possession of you
and expect you to devote yourself entirely to him, so that you cannot get rid of him.

Neither need you look for compliments from him; nor will he tell you what I have taught him
to say; expect nothing from him but the plain, simple truth, without addition or ornament and
without vanity. He will tell you the wrong things he has done and thought as readily as the
right, without troubling himself in the least as to the effect of his words upon you; he will
use speech with all the simplicity of its first beginnings.

We love to augur well of our children, and we are continually regretting the flood of folly
which overwhelms the hopes we would fain have rested on some chance phrase. If my scholar rarely
gives me cause for such prophecies, neither will he give me cause for such regrets, for he
never says a useless word, and does not exhaust himself by chattering when he knows there is
no one to listen to him. His ideas are few but precise, he knows nothing by rote but much by
experience. If he reads our books worse than other children, he reads far better in the book
of nature; his thoughts are not in his tongue but in his brain; he has less memory and more
judgment; he can only speak one language, but he understands what he is saying, and if his
speech is not so good as that of other children his deeds are better.

He does not know the meaning of habit, routine, and custom; what he did yesterday has no control
over what he is doing to-day; he follows no rule, submits to no authority, copies no pattern,
and only acts or speaks as he pleases. So do not expect set speeches or studied manners from
him, but just the faithful expression of his thoughts and the conduct that springs from his
inclinations. [Footnote: Habit owes its charm to man's natural idleness, and this idleness
grows upon us if indulged; it is easier to do what we have already done, there is a beaten
path which is easily followed. Thus we may observe that habit is very strong in the aged and
in the indolent, and very weak in the young and active. The rule of habit is only good for
feeble hearts, and it makes them more and more feeble day by day. The only useful habit for
children is to be accustomed to submit without difficulty to necessity, and the only useful
habit for man is to submit without difficulty to the rule of reason. Every other habit is a vice.]

You will find he has a few moral ideas concerning his present state and none concerning manhood;
what use could he make of them, for the child is not, as yet, an active member of society.
Speak to him of freedom, of property, or even of what is usually done; he may understand you
so far; he knows why his things are his own, and why other things are not his, and nothing
more. Speak to him of duty or obedience; he will not know what you are talking about; bid him
do something and he will pay no attention; but say to him, "If you will give me this pleasure,
I will repay it when required," and he will hasten to give you satisfaction, for he asks nothing
better than to extend his domain, to acquire rights over you, which will, he knows, be respected.
Maybe he is not sorry to have a place of his own, to be reckoned of some account; but if he
has formed this latter idea, he has already left the realms of nature, and you have failed
to bar the gates of vanity.

For his own part, should he need help, he will ask it readily of the first person he meets.
He will ask it of a king as readily as of his servant; all men are equals in his eyes. From
his way of asking you will see he knows you owe him nothing, that he is asking a favour.  He
knows too that humanity moves you to grant this favour; his words are few and simple. His voice,
his look, his gesture are those of a being equally familiar with compliance and refusal. It
is neither the crawling, servile submission of the slave, nor the imperious tone of the master,
it is a modest confidence in mankind; it is the noble and touching gentleness of a creature,
free, yet sensitive and feeble, who asks aid of a being, free, but strong and kindly. If you
grant his request he will not thank you, but he will feel he has incurred a debt. If you refuse
he will neither complain nor insist; he knows it is useless; he will not say, "They refused
to help me," but "It was impossible," and as I have already said, we do not rebel against necessity
when once we have perceived it.

Leave him to himself and watch his actions without speaking, consider what he is doing and
how he sets about it. He does not require to convince himself that he is free, so he never
acts thoughtlessly and merely to show that he can do what he likes; does he not know that he
is always his own master? He is quick, alert, and ready; his movements are eager as befits
his age, but you will not find one which has no end in view. Whatever he wants, he will never
attempt what is beyond his powers, for he has learnt by experience what those powers are; his
means will always be adapted to the end in view, and he will rarely attempt anything without
the certainty of success; his eye is keen and true; he will not be so stupid as to go and ask
other people about what he sees; he will examine it on his own account, and before he asks
he will try every means at his disposal to discover what he wants to know for himself.  If
he lights upon some unexpected difficulty, he will be less upset than others; if there is danger
he will be less afraid. His imagination is still asleep and nothing has been done to arouse
it; he only sees what is really there, and rates the danger at its true worth; so he never
loses his head. He does not rebel against necessity, her hand is too heavy upon him; he has
borne her yoke all his life long, he is well used to it; he is always ready for anything.

Work or play are all one to him, his games are his work; he knows no difference. He brings
to everything the cheerfulness of interest, the charm of freedom, and he snows the bent of
his own mind and the extent of his knowledge. Is there anything better worth seeing, anything
more touching or more delightful, than a pretty child, with merry, cheerful glance, easy contented
manner, open smiling countenance, playing at the most important things, or working at the lightest
amusements?

Would you now judge him by comparison? Set him among other children and leave him to himself.
You will soon see which has made most progress, which comes nearer to the perfection of childhood.
Among all the children in the town there is none more skilful and none so strong. Among young
peasants he is their equal in strength and their superior in skill. In everything within a
child's grasp he judges, reasons, and shows a forethought beyond the rest. Is it a matter of
action, running, jumping, or shifting things, raising weights or estimating distance, inventing
games, carrying off prizes; you might say, "Nature obeys his word," so easily does he bend
all things to his will. He is made to lead, to rule his fellows; talent and experience take
the place of right and authority. In any garb, under any name, he will still be first; everywhere
he will rule the rest, they will always feel his superiority, he will be master without knowing
it, and they will serve him unawares.

He has reached the perfection of childhood; he has lived the life of a child; his progress
has not been bought at the price of his happiness, he has gained both. While he has acquired
all the wisdom of a child, he has been as free and happy as his health permits. If the Reaper
Death should cut him off and rob us of our hopes, we need not bewail alike his life and death,
we shall not have the added grief of knowing that we caused him pain; we will say, "His childhood,
at least, was happy; we have robbed him of nothing that nature gave him."

The chief drawback to this early education is that it is only appreciated by the wise; to vulgar
eyes the child so carefully educated is nothing but a rough little boy. A tutor thinks rather
of the advantage to himself than to his pupil; he makes a point of showing that there has been
no time wasted; he provides his pupil with goods which can be readily displayed in the shop
window, accomplishments which can be shown off at will; no matter whether they are useful,
provided they are easily seen. Without choice or discrimination he loads his memory with a
pack of rubbish. If the child is to be examined he is set to display his wares; he spreads
them out, satisfies those who behold them, packs up his bundle and goes his way. My pupil is
poorer, he has no bundle to display, he has only himself to show. Now neither child nor man
can be read at a glance. Where are the observers who can at once discern the characteristics
of this child? There are such people, but they are few and far between; among a thousand fathers
you will scarcely find one.

Too many questions are tedious and revolting to most of us and especially to children. After
a few minutes their attention flags, they cease to listen to your everlasting questions and
reply at random. This way of testing them is pedantic and useless; a chance word will often
show their sense and intelligence better than much talking, but take care that the answer is
neither a matter of chance nor yet learnt by heart. A man must needs have a good judgment if
he is to estimate the judgment of a child.

I heard the late Lord Hyde tell the following story about one of his friends. He had returned
from Italy after a three years' absence, and was anxious to test the progress of his son, a
child of nine or ten. One evening he took a walk with the child and his tutor across a level
space where the schoolboys were flying their kites. As they went, the father said to his son,
"Where is the kite that casts this shadow?" Without hesitating and without glancing upwards
the child replied, "Over the high road." "And indeed," said Lord Hyde, "the high road was between
us and the sun." At these words, the father kissed his child, and having finished his examination
he departed.  The next day he sent the tutor the papers settling an annuity on him in addition
to his salary.

What a father! and what a promising child! The question is exactly adapted to the child's age,
the answer is perfectly simple; but see what precision it implies in the child's judgment.
Thus did the pupil of Aristotle master the famous steed which no squire had ever been able to tame.

BOOK III

The whole course of man's life up to adolescence is a period of weakness; yet there comes a
time during these early years when the child's strength overtakes the demands upon it, when
the growing creature, though absolutely weak, is relatively strong. His needs are not fully
developed and his present strength is more than enough for them. He would be a very feeble
man, but he is a strong child.

What is the cause of man's weakness? It is to be found in the disproportion between his strength
and his desires. It is our passions that make us weak, for our natural strength is not enough
for their satisfaction. To limit our desires comes to the same thing, therefore, as to increase
our strength. When we can do more than we want, we have strength enough and to spare, we are
really strong. This is the third stage of childhood, the stage with which I am about to deal.
I still speak of childhood for want of a better word; for our scholar is approaching adolescence,
though he has not yet reached the age of puberty.

About twelve or thirteen the child's strength increases far more rapidly than his needs. The
strongest and fiercest of the passions is still unknown, his physical development is still
imperfect and seems to await the call of the will. He is scarcely aware of extremes of heat
and cold and braves them with impunity. He needs no coat, his blood is warm; no spices, hunger
is his sauce, no food comes amiss at this age; if he is sleepy he stretches himself on the
ground and goes to sleep; he finds all he needs within his reach; he is not tormented by any
imaginary wants; he cares nothing what others think; his desires are not beyond his grasp;
not only is he self-sufficing, but for the first and last time in his life he has more strength
than he needs.

I know beforehand what you will say. You will not assert that the child has more needs than
I attribute to him, but you will deny his strength. You forget that I am speaking of my own
pupil, not of those puppets who walk with difficulty from one room to another, who toil indoors
and carry bundles of paper. Manly strength, you say, appears only with manhood; the vital spirits,
distilled in their proper vessels and spreading through the whole body, can alone make the
muscles firm, sensitive, tense, and springy, can alone cause real strength. This is the philosophy
of the study; I appeal to that of experience. In the country districts, I see big lads hoeing,
digging, guiding the plough, filling the wine-cask, driving the cart, like their fathers; you
would take them for grown men if their voices did not betray them. Even in our towns, iron-workers',
tool makers', and blacksmiths' lads are almost as strong as their masters and would be scarcely
less skilful had their training begun earlier.  If there is a difference, and I do not deny
that there is, it is, I repeat, much less than the difference between the stormy passions of
the man and the few wants of the child. Moreover, it is not merely a question of bodily strength,
but more especially of strength of mind, which reinforces and directs the bodily strength.

This interval in which the strength of the individual is in excess of his wants is, as I have
said, relatively though not absolutely the time of greatest strength. It is the most precious
time in his life; it comes but once; it is very short, all too short, as you will see when
you consider the importance of using it aright.

He has, therefore, a surplus of strength and capacity which he will never have again. What
use shall he make of it? He will strive to use it in tasks which will help at need. He will,
so to speak, cast his present surplus into the storehouse of the future; the vigorous child
will make provision for the feeble man; but he will not store his goods where thieves may break
in, nor in barns which are not his own. To store them aright, they must be in the hands and
the head, they must be stored within himself. This is the time for work, instruction, and inquiry.
And note that this is no arbitrary choice of mine, it is the way of nature herself.

Human intelligence is finite, and not only can no man know everything, he cannot even acquire
all the scanty knowledge of others. Since the contrary of every false proposition is a truth,
there are as many truths as falsehoods. We must, therefore, choose what to teach as well as
when to teach it. Some of the information within our reach is false, some is useless, some
merely serves to puff up its possessor. The small store which really contributes to our welfare
alone deserves the study of a wise man, and therefore of a child whom one would have wise.
He must know not merely what is, but what is useful.

From this small stock we must also deduct those truths which require a full grown mind for
their understanding, those which suppose a knowledge of man's relations to his fellow-men--a
knowledge which no child can acquire; these things, although in themselves true, lead an inexperienced
mind into mistakes with regard to other matters.

We are now confined to a circle, small indeed compared with the whole of human thought, but
this circle is still a vast sphere when measured by the child's mind. Dark places of the human
understanding, what rash hand shall dare to raise your veil? What pitfalls does our so-called
science prepare for the miserable child. Would you guide him along this dangerous path and
draw the veil from the face of nature?  Stay your hand. First make sure that neither he nor
you will become dizzy. Beware of the specious charms of error and the intoxicating fumes of
pride. Keep this truth ever before you--Ignorance never did any one any harm, error alone is
fatal, and we do not lose our way through ignorance but through self-confidence.

His progress in geometry may serve as a test and a true measure of the growth of his intelligence,
but as soon as he can distinguish between what is useful and what is useless, much skill and
discretion are required to lead him towards theoretical studies. For example, would you have
him find a mean proportional between two lines, contrive that he should require to find a square
equal to a given rectangle; if two mean proportionals are required, you must first contrive
to interest him in the doubling of the cube. See how we are gradually approaching the moral
ideas which distinguish between good and evil. Hitherto we have known no law but necessity,
now we are considering what is useful; we shall soon come to what is fitting and right.

Man's diverse powers are stirred by the same instinct. The bodily activity, which seeks an
outlet for its energies, is succeeded by the mental activity which seeks for knowledge. Children
are first restless, then curious; and this curiosity, rightly directed, is the means of development
for the age with which we are dealing. Always distinguish between natural and acquired tendencies.
There is a zeal for learning which has no other foundation than a wish to appear learned, and
there is another which springs from man's natural curiosity about all things far or near which
may affect himself. The innate desire for comfort and the impossibility of its complete satisfaction
impel him to the endless search for fresh means of contributing to its satisfaction. This is
the first principle of curiosity; a principle natural to the human heart, though its growth
is proportional to the development of our feeling and knowledge. If a man of science were left
on a desert island with his books and instruments and knowing that he must spend the rest of
his life there, he would scarcely trouble himself about the solar system, the laws of attraction,
or the differential calculus. He might never even open a book again; but he would never rest
till he had explored the furthest corner of his island, however large it might be. Let us therefore
omit from our early studies such knowledge as has no natural attraction for us, and confine
ourselves to such things as instinct impels us to study.

Our island is this earth; and the most striking object we behold is the sun. As soon as we
pass beyond our immediate surroundings, one or both of these must meet our eye. Thus the philosophy
of most savage races is mainly directed to imaginary divisions of the earth or to the divinity
of the sun.

What a sudden change you will say. Just now we were concerned with what touches ourselves,
with our immediate environment, and all at once we are exploring the round world and leaping
to the bounds of the universe. This change is the result of our growing strength and of the
natural bent of the mind. While we were weak and feeble, self-preservation concentrated our
attention on ourselves; now that we are strong and powerful, the desire for a wider sphere
carries us beyond ourselves as far as our eyes can reach. But as the intellectual world is
still unknown to us, our thoughts are bounded by the visible horizon, and our understanding
only develops within the limits of our vision.

Let us transform our sensations into ideas, but do not let us jump all at once from the objects
of sense to objects of thought. The latter are attained by means of the former. Let the senses
be the only guide for the first workings of reason. No book but the world, no teaching but
that of fact. The child who reads ceases to think, he only reads. He is acquiring words not
knowledge.

Teach your scholar to observe the phenomena of nature; you will soon rouse his curiosity, but
if you would have it grow, do not be in too great a hurry to satisfy this curiosity. Put the
problems before him and let him solve them himself. Let him know nothing because you have told
him, but because he has learnt it for himself. Let him not be taught science, let him discover
it. If ever you substitute authority for reason he will cease to reason; he will be a mere
plaything of other people's thoughts.

You wish to teach this child geography and you provide him with globes, spheres, and maps.
What elaborate preparations! What is the use of all these symbols; why not begin by showing
him the real thing so that he may at least know what you are talking about?

One fine evening we are walking in a suitable place where the wide horizon gives us a full
view of the setting sun, and we note the objects which mark the place where it sets. Next morning
we return to the same place for a breath of fresh air before sun-rise. We see the rays of light
which announce the sun's approach; the glow increases, the east seems afire, and long before
the sun appears the light leads us to expect its return. Every moment you expect to see it.
There it is at last! A shining point appears like a flash of lightning and soon fills the whole
space; the veil of darkness rolls away, man perceives his dwelling place in fresh beauty. During
the night the grass has assumed a fresher green; in the light of early dawn, and gilded by
the first rays of the sun, it seems covered with a shining network of dew reflecting the light
and colour. The birds raise their chorus of praise to greet the Father of life, not one of
them is mute; their gentle warbling is softer than by day, it expresses the langour of a peaceful
waking. All these produce an impression of freshness which seems to reach the very soul. It
is a brief hour of enchantment which no man can resist; a sight so grand, so fair, so delicious,
that none can behold it unmoved.

Fired with this enthusiasm, the master wishes to impart it to the child. He expects to rouse
his emotion by drawing attention to his own. Mere folly! The splendour of nature lives in man's
heart; to be seen, it must be felt. The child sees the objects themselves, but does not perceive
their relations, and cannot hear their harmony. It needs knowledge he has not yet acquired,
feelings he has not yet experienced, to receive the complex impression which results from all
these separate sensations. If he has not wandered over arid plains, if his feet have not been
scorched by the burning sands of the desert, if he has not breathed the hot and oppressive
air reflected from the glowing rocks, how shall he delight in the fresh air of a fine morning.
The scent of flowers, the beauty of foliage, the moistness of the dew, the soft turf beneath
his feet, how shall all these delight his senses. How shall the song of the birds arouse voluptuous
emotion if love and pleasure are still unknown to him? How shall he behold with rapture the
birth of this fair day, if his imagination cannot paint the joys it may bring in its track?
How can he feel the beauty of nature, while the hand that formed it is unknown?

Never tell the child what he cannot understand: no descriptions, no eloquence, no figures of
speech, no poetry. The time has not come for feeling or taste. Continue to be clear and cold;
the time will come only too soon when you must adopt another tone.

Brought up in the spirit of our maxims, accustomed to make his own tools and not to appeal
to others until he has tried and failed, he will examine everything he sees carefully and in
silence. He thinks rather than questions. Be content, therefore, to show him things at a fit
season; then, when you see that his curiosity is thoroughly aroused, put some brief question
which will set him trying to discover the answer.

On the present occasion when you and he have carefully observed the rising sun, when you have
called his attention to the mountains and other objects visible from the same spot, after he
has chattered freely about them, keep quiet for a few minutes as if lost in thought and then
say, "I think the sun set over there last night; it rose here this morning. How can that be?"
Say no more; if he asks questions, do not answer them; talk of something else. Let him alone,
and be sure he will think about it.

To train a child to be really attentive so that he may be really impressed by any truth of
experience, he must spend anxious days before he discovers that truth. If he does not learn
enough in this way, there is another way of drawing his attention to the matter. Turn the question
about. If he does not know how the sun gets from the place where it sets to where it rises,
he knows at least how it travels from sunrise to sunset, his eyes teach him that. Use the second
question to throw light on the first; either your pupil is a regular dunce or the analogy is
too clear to be missed. This is his first lesson in cosmography.

As we always advance slowly from one sensible idea to another, and as we give time enough to
each for him to become really familiar with it before we go on to another, and lastly as we
never force our scholar's attention, we are still a long way from a knowledge of the course
of the sun or the shape of the earth; but as all the apparent movements of the celestial bodies
depend on the same principle, and the first observation leads on to all the rest, less effort
is needed, though more time, to proceed from the diurnal revolution to the calculation of eclipses,
than to get a thorough understanding of day and night.

Since the sun revolves round the earth it describes a circle, and every circle must have a
centre; that we know already. This centre is invisible, it is in the middle of the earth, but
we can mark out two opposite points on the earth's surface which correspond to it. A skewer
passed through the three points and prolonged to the sky at either end would represent the
earth's axis and the sun's daily course. A round teetotum revolving on its point represents
the sky turning on its axis, the two points of the teetotum are the two poles; the child will
be delighted to find one of them, and I show him the tail of the Little bear. Here is a another
game for the dark. Little by little we get to know the stars, and from this comes a wish to
know the planets and observe the constellations.

We saw the sun rise at midsummer, we shall see it rise at Christmas or some other fine winter's
day; for you know we are no lie-a-beds and we enjoy the cold. I take care to make this second
observation in the same place as the first, and if skilfully lead up to, one or other will
certainly exclaim, "What a funny thing! The sun is not rising in the same place; here are our
landmarks, but it is rising over there. So there is the summer east and the winter east, etc."
Young teacher, you are on the right track. These examples should show you how to teach the
sphere without any difficulty, taking the earth for the earth and the sun for the sun.

As a general rule--never substitute the symbol for the thing signified, unless it is impossible
to show the thing itself; for the child's attention is so taken up with the symbol that he
will forget what it signifies.

I consider the armillary sphere a clumsy disproportioned bit of apparatus. The confused circles
and the strange figures described on it suggest witchcraft and frighten the child. The earth
is too small, the circles too large and too numerous, some of them, the colures, for instance,
are quite useless, and the thickness of the pasteboard gives them an appearance of solidity
so that they are taken for circular masses having a real existence, and when you tell the child
that these are imaginary circles, he does not know what he is looking at and is none the wiser.

We are unable to put ourselves in the child's place, we fail to enter into his thoughts, we
invest him with our own ideas, and while we are following our own chain of reasoning, we merely
fill his head with errors and absurdities.

Should the method of studying science be analytic or synthetic? People dispute over this question,
but it is not always necessary to choose between them. Sometimes the same experiments allow
one to use both analysis and synthesis, and thus to guide the child by the method of instruction
when he fancies he is only analysing. Then, by using both at once, each method confirms the
results of the other.  Starting from opposite ends, without thinking of following the same
road, he will unexpectedly reach their meeting place and this will be a delightful surprise.
For example, I would begin geography at both ends and add to the study of the earth's revolution
the measurement of its divisions, beginning at home. While the child is studying the sphere
and is thus transported to the heavens, bring him back to the divisions of the globe and show
him his own home.

His geography will begin with the town he lives in and his father's country house, then the
places between them, the rivers near them, and then the sun's aspect and how to find one's
way by its aid. This is the meeting place. Let him make his own map, a very simple map, at
first containing only two places; others may be added from time to time, as he is able to estimate
their distance and position. You see at once what a good start we have given him by making
his eye his compass.

No doubt he will require some guidance in spite of this, but very little, and that little without
his knowing it. If he goes wrong let him alone, do not correct his mistakes; hold your tongue
till he finds them out for himself and corrects them, or at most arrange something, as opportunity
offers, which may show him his mistakes. If he never makes mistakes he will never learn anything
thoroughly. Moreover, what he needs is not an exact knowledge of local topography, but how
to find out for himself. No matter whether he carries maps in his head provided he understands
what they mean, and has a clear idea of the art of making them. See what a difference there
is already between the knowledge of your scholars and the ignorance of mine. They learn maps,
he makes them. Here are fresh ornaments for his room.

Remember that this is the essential point in my method--Do not teach the child many things,
but never to let him form inaccurate or confused ideas. I care not if he knows nothing provided
he is not mistaken, and I only acquaint him with truths to guard him against the errors he
might put in their place. Reason and judgment come slowly, prejudices flock to us in crowds,
and from these he must be protected. But if you make science itself your object, you embark
on an unfathomable and shoreless ocean, an ocean strewn with reefs from which you will never
return. When I see a man in love with knowledge, yielding to its charms and flitting from one
branch to another unable to stay his steps, he seems to me like a child gathering shells on
the sea-shore, now picking them up, then throwing them aside for others which he sees beyond
them, then taking them again, till overwhelmed by their number and unable to choose between
them, he flings them all away and returns empty handed.

Time was long during early childhood; we only tried to pass our time for fear of using it ill;
now it is the other way; we have not time enough for all that would be of use. The passions,
remember, are drawing near, and when they knock at the door your scholar will have no ear for
anything else. The peaceful age of intelligence is so short, it flies so swiftly, there is
so much to be done, that it is madness to try to make your child learned. It is not your business
to teach him the various sciences, but to give him a taste for them and methods of learning
them when this taste is more mature. That is assuredly a fundamental principle of all good
education.

This is also the time to train him gradually to prolonged attention to a given object; but
this attention should never be the result of constraint, but of interest or desire; you must
be very careful that it is not too much for his strength, and that it is not carried to the
point of tedium. Watch him, therefore, and whatever happens, stop before he is tired, for it
matters little what he learns; it does matter that he should do nothing against his will.

If he asks questions let your answers be enough to whet his curiosity but not enough to satisfy
it; above all, when you find him talking at random and overwhelming you with silly questions
instead of asking for information, at once refuse to answer; for it is clear that he no longer
cares about the matter in hand, but wants to make you a slave to his questions. Consider his
motives rather than his words. This warning, which was scarcely needed before, becomes of supreme
importance when the child begins to reason.

There is a series of abstract truths by means of which all the sciences are related to common
principles and are developed each in its turn. This relationship is the method of the philosophers.
We are not concerned with it at present. There is quite another method by which every concrete
example suggests another and always points to the next in the series. This succession, which
stimulates the curiosity and so arouses the attention required by every object in turn, is
the order followed by most men, and it is the right order for all children. To take our bearings
so as to make our maps we must find meridians. Two points of intersection between the equal
shadows morning and evening supply an excellent meridian for a thirteen-year-old astronomer.
But these meridians disappear, it takes time to trace them, and you are obliged to work in
one place.  So much trouble and attention will at last become irksome. We foresaw this and
are ready for it.

Again I must enter into minute and detailed explanations. I hear my readers murmur, but I am
prepared to meet their disapproval; I will not sacrifice the most important part of this book
to your impatience. You may think me as long-winded as you please; I have my own opinion as
to your complaints.

Long ago my pupil and I remarked that some substances such as amber, glass, and wax, when well
rubbed, attracted straws, while others did not. We accidentally discover a substance which
has a more unusual property, that of attracting filings or other small particles of iron from
a distance and without rubbing. How much time do we devote to this game to the exclusion of
everything else! At last we discover that this property is communicated to the iron itself,
which is, so to speak, endowed with life. We go to the fair one day [Footnote: I could not
help laughing when I read an elaborate criticism of this little tale by M. de Formy. "This
conjuror," says he, "who is afraid of a child's competition and preaches to his tutor is the
sort of person we meet with in the world in which Emile and such as he are living." This witty
M. de Formy could not guess that this little scene was arranged beforehand, and that the juggler
was taught his part in it; indeed I did not state this fact. But I have said again and again
that I was not writing for people who expected to be told everything.] and a conjuror has a
wax duck floating in a basin of water, and he makes it follow a bit of bread.  We are greatly
surprised, but we do not call him a wizard, never having heard of such persons. As we are continually
observing effects whose causes are unknown to us, we are in no hurry to make up our minds,
and we remain in ignorance till we find an opportunity of learning.

When we get home we discuss the duck till we try to imitate it. We take a needle thoroughly
magnetised, we imbed it in white wax, shaped as far as possible like a duck, with the needle
running through the body, so that its eye forms the beak. We put the duck in water and put
the end of a key near its beak, and you will readily understand our delight when we find that
our duck follows the key just as the duck at the fair followed the bit of bread. Another time
we may note the direction assumed by the duck when left in the basin; for the present we are
wholly occupied with our work and we want nothing more.

The same evening we return to the fair with some bread specially prepared in our pockets, and
as soon as the conjuror has performed his trick, my little doctor, who can scarcely sit still,
exclaims, "The trick is quite easy; I can do it myself." "Do it then." He at once takes the
bread with a bit of iron hidden in it from his pocket; his heart throbs as he approaches the
table and holds out the bread, his hand trembles with excitement. The duck approaches and follows
his hand. The child cries out and jumps for joy. The applause, the shouts of the crowd, are
too much for him, he is beside himself. The conjuror, though disappointed, embraces him, congratulates
him, begs the honour of his company on the following day, and promises to collect a still greater
crowd to applaud his skill. My young scientist is very proud of himself and is beginning to
chatter, but I check him at once and take him home overwhelmed with praise.

The child counts the minutes till to-morrow with absurd anxiety. He invites every one he meets,
he wants all mankind to behold his glory; he can scarcely wait till the appointed hour. He
hurries to the place; the hall is full already; as he enters his young heart swells with pride.
Other tricks are to come first. The conjuror surpasses himself and does the most surprising
things. The child sees none of these; he wriggles, perspires, and hardly breathes; the time
is spent in fingering with a trembling hand the bit of bread in his pocket. His turn comes
at last; the master announces it to the audience with all ceremony; he goes up looking somewhat
shamefaced and takes out his bit of bread. Oh fleeting joys of human life! the duck, so tame
yesterday, is quite wild to-day; instead of offering its beak it turns tail and swims away;
it avoids the bread and the hand that holds it as carefully as it followed them yesterday.
After many vain attempts accompanied by derisive shouts from the audience the child complains
that he is being cheated, that is not the same duck, and he defies the conjuror to attract it.

The conjuror, without further words, takes a bit of bread and offers it to the duck, which
at once follows it and comes to the hand which holds it. The child takes the same bit of bread
with no better success; the duck mocks his efforts and swims round the basin.  Overwhelmed
with confusion he abandons the attempt, ashamed to face the crowd any longer. Then the conjuror
takes the bit of bread the child brought with him and uses it as successfully as his own. He
takes out the bit of iron before the audience--another laugh at our expense--then with this
same bread he attracts the duck as before.  He repeats the experiment with a piece of bread
cut by a third person in full view of the audience. He does it with his glove, with his finger-tip.
Finally he goes into the middle of the room and in the emphatic tones used by such persons
he declares that his duck will obey his voice as readily as his hand; he speaks and the duck
obeys; he bids him go to the right and he goes, to come back again and he comes. The movement
is as ready as the command. The growing applause completes our discomfiture. We slip away unnoticed
and shut ourselves up in our room, without relating our successes to everybody as we had expected.

Next day there is a knock at the door. When I open it there is the conjuror, who makes a modest
complaint with regard to our conduct. What had he done that we should try to discredit his
tricks and deprive him of his livelihood? What is there so wonderful in attracting a duck that
we should purchase this honour at the price of an honest man's living? "My word, gentlemen!
had I any other trade by which I could earn a living I would not pride myself on this. You
may well believe that a man who has spent his life at this miserable trade knows more about
it than you who only give your spare time to it. If I did not show you my best tricks at first,
it was because one must not be so foolish as to display all one knows at once. I always take
care to keep my best tricks for emergencies; and I have plenty more to prevent young folks
from meddling.  However, I have come, gentlemen, in all kindness, to show you the trick that
gave you so much trouble; I only beg you not to use it to my hurt, and to be more discreet
in future." He then shows us his apparatus, and to our great surprise we find it is merely
a strong magnet in the hand of a boy concealed under the table. The man puts up his things,
and after we have offered our thanks and apologies, we try to give him something. He refuses
it. "No, gentlemen," says he, "I owe you no gratitude and I will not accept your gift. I leave
you in my debt in spite of all, and that is my only revenge.  Generosity may be found among
all sorts of people, and I earn my pay by doing my tricks not by teaching them."

As he is going he blames me out-right. "I can make excuses for the child," he says, "he sinned
in ignorance. But you, sir, should know better. Why did you let him do it? As you are living
together and you are older than he, you should look after him and give him good advice. Your
experience should be his guide. When he is grown up he will reproach, not only himself, but
you, for the faults of his youth."

When he is gone we are greatly downcast. I blame myself for my easy-going ways. I promise the
child that another time I will put his interests first and warn him against faults before he
falls into them, for the time is coming when our relations will be changed, when the severity
of the master must give way to the friendliness of the comrade; this change must come gradually,
you must look ahead, and very far ahead.

We go to the fair again the next day to see the trick whose secret we know. We approach our
Socrates, the conjuror, with profound respect, we scarcely dare to look him in the face. He
overwhelms us with politeness, gives us the best places, and heaps coals of fire on our heads.
He goes through his performance as usual, but he lingers affectionately over the duck, and
often glances proudly in our direction. We are in the secret, but we do not tell. If my pupil
did but open his mouth he would be worthy of death.

There is more meaning than you suspect in this detailed illustration. How many lessons in one!
How mortifying are the results of a first impulse towards vanity! Young tutor, watch this first
impulse carefully. If you can use it to bring about shame and disgrace, you may be sure it
will not recur for many a day. What a fuss you will say. Just so; and all to provide a compass
which will enable us to dispense with a meridian!

Having learnt that a magnet acts through other bodies, our next business is to construct a
bit of apparatus similar to that shown us. A bare table, a shallow bowl placed on it and filled
with water, a duck rather better finished than the first, and so on. We often watch the thing
and at last we notice that the duck, when at rest. always turns the same way. We follow up
this observation; we examine the direction, we find that it is from south to north. Enough!
we have found our compass or its equivalent; the study of physics is begun.

There are various regions of the earth, and these regions differ in temperature. The variation
is more evident as we approach the poles; all bodies expand with heat and contract with cold;
this is best measured in liquids and best of all in spirits; hence the thermometer. The wind
strikes the face, then the air is a body, a fluid; we feel it though we cannot see it. I invert
a glass in water; the water will not fill it unless you leave a passage for the escape of the
air; so air is capable of resistance. Plunge the glass further in the water; the water will
encroach on the air-space without filling it entirely; so air yields somewhat to pressure.
A ball filled with compressed air bounces better than one filled with anything else; so air
is elastic. Raise your arm horizontally from the water when you are lying in your bath; you
will feel a terrible weight on it; so air is a heavy body. For none of these would I take the
child into a physical cabinet; I dislike that array of instruments and apparatus.  The scientific
atmosphere destroys science. Either the child is frightened by these instruments or his attention,
which should be fixed on their effects, is distracted by their appearance.

We shall make all our apparatus ourselves, and I would not make it beforehand, but having caught
a glimpse of the experiment by chance we mean to invent step by step an instrument for its
verification. I would rather our apparatus was somewhat clumsy and imperfect, but our ideas
clear as to what the apparatus ought to be, and the results to be obtained by means of it.
For my first lesson in statics, instead of fetching a balance, I lay a stick across the back
of a chair, I measure the two parts when it is balanced; add equal or unequal weights to either
end; by pulling or pushing it as required, I find at last that equilibrium is the result of
a reciprocal proportion between the amount of the weights and the length of the levers. Thus
my little physicist is ready to rectify a balance before ever he sees one.

Undoubtedly the notions of things thus acquired for oneself are clearer and much more convincing
than those acquired from the teaching of others; and not only is our reason not accustomed
to a slavish submission to authority, but we develop greater ingenuity in discovering relations,
connecting ideas and inventing apparatus, than when we merely accept what is given us and allow
our minds to be enfeebled by indifference, like the body of a man whose servants always wait
on him, dress him and put on his shoes, whose horse carries him, till he loses the use of his
limbs. Boileau used to boast that he had taught Racine the art of rhyming with difficulty.
Among the many short cuts to science, we badly need some one to teach us the art of learning
with difficulty.

The most obvious advantage of these slow and laborious inquiries is this: the scholar, while
engaged in speculative studies, is actively using his body, gaining suppleness of limb, and
training his hands to labour so that he will be able to make them useful when he is a man.
Too much apparatus, designed to guide us in our experiments and to supplement the exactness
of our senses, makes us neglect to use those senses. The theodolite makes it unnecessary to
estimate the size of angles; the eye which used to judge distances with much precision, trusts
to the chain for its measurements; the steel yard dispenses with the need of judging weight
by the hand as I used to do. The more ingenious our apparatus, the coarser and more unskilful
are our senses. We surround ourselves with tools and fail to use those with which nature has
provided every one of us.

But when we devote to the making of these instruments the skill which did instead of them,
when for their construction we use the intelligence which enabled us to dispense with them,
this is gain not loss, we add art to nature, we gain ingenuity without loss of skill. If instead
of making a child stick to his books I employ him in a workshop, his hands work for the development
of his mind. While he fancies himself a workman he is becoming a philosopher. Moreover, this
exercise has other advantages of which I shall speak later; and you will see how, through philosophy
in sport, one may rise to the real duties of man.

I have said already that purely theoretical science is hardly suitable for children, even for
children approaching adolescence; but without going far into theoretical physics, take care
that all their experiments are connected together by some chain of reasoning, so that they
may follow an orderly sequence in the mind, and may be recalled at need; for it is very difficult
to remember isolated facts or arguments, when there is no cue for their recall.

In your inquiry into the laws of nature always begin with the commonest and most conspicuous
phenomena, and train your scholar not to accept these phenomena as causes but as facts. I take
a stone and pretend to place it in the air; I open my hand, the stone falls. I see Emile watching
my action and I say, "Why does this stone fall?"

What child will hesitate over this question? None, not even Emile, unless I have taken great
pains to teach him not to answer. Every one will say, "The stone falls because it is heavy."
"And what do you mean by heavy?" "That which falls." "So the stone falls because it falls?"
Here is a poser for my little philosopher. This is his first lesson in systematic physics,
and whether he learns physics or no it is a good lesson in common-sense.

As the child develops in intelligence other important considerations require us to be still
more careful in our choice of his occupations. As soon as he has sufficient self-knowledge
to understand what constitutes his well-being, as soon as he can grasp such far-reaching relations
as to judge what is good for him and what is not, then he is able to discern the difference
between work and play, and to consider the latter merely as relaxation. The objects of real
utility may be introduced into his studies and may lead him to more prolonged attention than
he gave to his games. The ever-recurring law of necessity soon teaches a man to do what he
does not like, so as to avert evils which he would dislike still more. Such is the use of foresight,
and this foresight, well or ill used, is the source of all the wisdom or the wretchedness of
mankind.

Every one desires happiness, but to secure it he must know what happiness is. For the natural
man happiness is as simple as his life; it consists in the absence of pain; health, freedom,
the necessaries of life are its elements. The happiness of the moral man is another matter,
but it does not concern us at present. I cannot repeat too often that it is only objects which
can be perceived by the senses which can have any interest for children, especially children
whose vanity has not been stimulated nor their minds corrupted by social conventions.

As soon as they foresee their needs before they feel them, their intelligence has made a great
step forward, they are beginning to know the value of time. They must then be trained to devote
this time to useful purposes, but this usefulness should be such as they can readily perceive
and should be within the reach of their age and experience. What concerns the moral order and
the customs of society should not yet be given them, for they are not in a condition to understand
it. It is folly to expect them to attend to things vaguely described as good for them, when
they do not know what this good is, things which they are assured will be to their advantage
when they are grown up, though for the present they take no interest in this so-called advantage,
which they are unable to understand.

Let the child do nothing because he is told; nothing is good for him but what he recognises
as good. When you are always urging him beyond his present understanding, you think you are
exercising a foresight which you really lack. To provide him with useless tools which he may
never require, you deprive him of man's most useful tool--common-sense. You would have him
docile as a child; he will be a credulous dupe when he grows up. You are always saying, "What
I ask is for your good, though you cannot understand it. What does it matter to me whether
you do it or not; my efforts are entirely on your account." All these fine speeches with which
you hope to make him good, are preparing the way, so that the visionary, the tempter, the charlatan,
the rascal, and every kind of fool may catch him in his snare or draw him into his folly.

A man must know many things which seem useless to a child, but need the child learn, or can
he indeed learn, all that the man must know?  Try to teach the child what is of use to a child
and you will find that it takes all his time. Why urge him to the studies of an age he may
never reach, to the neglect of those studies which meet his present needs? "But," you ask,
"will it not be too late to learn what he ought to know when the time comes to use it?" I cannot
tell; but this I do know, it is impossible to teach it sooner, for our real teachers are experience
and emotion, and man will never learn what befits a man except under its own conditions. A
child knows he must become a man; all the ideas he may have as to man's estate are so many
opportunities for his instruction, but he should remain in complete ignorance of those ideas
which are beyond his grasp. My whole book is one continued argument in support of this fundamental
principle of education.

As soon as we have contrived to give our pupil an idea of the word "Useful," we have got an
additional means of controlling him, for this word makes a great impression on him, provided
that its meaning for him is a meaning relative to his own age, and provided he clearly sees
its relation to his own well-being. This word makes no impression on your scholars because
you have taken no pains to give it a meaning they can understand, and because other people
always undertake to supply their needs so that they never require to think for themselves,
and do not know what utility is.

"What is the use of that?" In future this is the sacred formula, the formula by which he and
I test every action of our lives. This is the question with which I invariably answer all his
questions; it serves to check the stream of foolish and tiresome questions with which children
weary those about them. These incessant questions produce no result, and their object is rather
to get a hold over you than to gain any real advantage. A pupil, who has been really taught
only to want to know what is useful, questions like Socrates; he never asks a question without
a reason for it, for he knows he will be required to give his reason before he gets an answer.

See what a powerful instrument I have put into your hands for use with your pupil. As he does
not know the reason for anything you can reduce him to silence almost at will; and what advantages
do your knowledge and experience give you to show him the usefulness of what you suggest. For,
make no mistake about it, when you put this question to him, you are teaching him to put it
to you, and you must expect that whatever you suggest to him in the future he will follow your
own example and ask, "What is the use of this?"

Perhaps this is the greatest of the tutor's difficulties. If you merely try to put the child
off when he asks a question, and if you give him a single reason he is not able to understand,
if he finds that you reason according to your own ideas, not his, he will think what you tell
him is good for you but not for him; you will lose his confidence and all your labour is thrown
away. But what master will stop short and confess his faults to his pupil? We all make it a
rule never to own to the faults we really have. Now I would make it a rule to admit even the
faults I have not, if I could not make my reasons clear to him; as my conduct will always be
intelligible to him, he will never doubt me and I shall gain more credit by confessing my imaginary
faults than those who conceal their real defects.

In the first place do not forget that it is rarely your business to suggest what he ought to
learn; it is for him to want to learn, to seek and to find it. You should put it within his
reach, you should skilfully awaken the desire and supply him with means for its satisfaction.
So your questions should be few and well-chosen, and as he will always have more questions
to put to you than you to him, you will always have the advantage and will be able to ask all
the oftener, "What is the use of that question?" Moreover, as it matters little what he learns
provided he understands it and knows how to use it, as soon as you cannot give him a suitable
explanation give him none at all. Do not hesitate to say, "I have no good answer to give you;
I was wrong, let us drop the subject." If your teaching was really ill-chosen there is no harm
in dropping it altogether; if it was not, with a little care you will soon find an opportunity
of making its use apparent to him.

I do not like verbal explanations. Young people pay little heed to them, nor do they remember
them. Things! Things! I cannot repeat it too often. We lay too much stress upon words; we teachers
babble, and our scholars follow our example.

Suppose we are studying the course of the sun and the way to find our bearings, when all at
once Emile interrupts me with the question, "What is the use of that?" what a fine lecture
I might give, how many things I might take occasion to teach him in reply to his question,
especially if there is any one there. I might speak of the advantages of travel, the value
of commerce, the special products of different lands and the peculiar customs of different
nations, the use of the calendar, the way to reckon the seasons for agriculture, the art of
navigation, how to steer our course at sea, how to find our way without knowing exactly where
we are. Politics, natural history, astronomy, even morals and international law are involved
in my explanation, so as to give my pupil some idea of all these sciences and a great wish
to learn them. When I have finished I shall have shown myself a regular pedant, I shall have
made a great display of learning, and not one single idea has he understood. He is longing
to ask me again, "What is the use of taking one's bearings?" but he dare not for fear of vexing
me. He finds it pays best to pretend to listen to what he is forced to hear. This is the practical
result of our fine systems of education.

But Emile is educated in a simpler fashion. We take so much pains to teach him a difficult
idea that he will have heard nothing of all this. At the first word he does not understand,
he will run away, he will prance about the room, and leave me to speechify by myself. Let us
seek a more commonplace explanation; my scientific learning is of no use to him.

We were observing the position of the forest to the north of Montmorency when he interrupted
me with the usual question, "What is the use of that?" "You are right," I said. "Let us take
time to think it over, and if we find it is no use we will drop it, for we only want useful
games." We find something else to do and geography is put aside for the day.

Next morning I suggest a walk before breakfast; there is nothing he would like better; children
are always ready to run about, and he is a good walker. We climb up to the forest, we wander
through its clearings and lose ourselves; we have no idea where we are, and when we want to
retrace our steps we cannot find the way. Time passes, we are hot and hungry; hurrying vainly
this way and that we find nothing but woods, quarries, plains, not a landmark to guide us.
Very hot, very tired, very hungry, we only get further astray. At last we sit down to rest
and to consider our position. I assume that Emile has been educated like an ordinary child.
He does not think, he begins to cry; he has no idea we are close to Montmorency, which is hidden
from our view by a mere thicket; but this thicket is a forest to him, a man of his size is
buried among bushes. After a few minutes' silence I begin anxiously----

JEAN JACQUES. My dear Emile, what shall we do get out?

EMILE. I am sure I do not know. I am tired, I am hungry, I am thirsty. I cannot go any further.

JEAN JACQUES. Do you suppose I am any better off? I would cry too if I could make my breakfast
off tears. Crying is no use, we must look about us. Let us see your watch; what time is it?

EMILE. It is noon and I am so hungry!

JEAN JACQUES. Just so; it is noon and I am so hungry too.

EMILE. You must be very hungry indeed.

JEAN JACQUES. Unluckily my dinner won't come to find me. It is twelve o'clock. This time yesterday
we were observing the position of the forest from Montmorency. If only we could see the position
of Montmorency from the forest.

EMILE. But yesterday we could see the forest, and here we cannot see the town.

JEAN JACQUES. That is just it. If we could only find it without seeing it.

EMILE. Oh! my dear friend!

JEAN JACQUES. Did not we say the forest was...

EMILE. North of Montmorency.

JEAN JACQUES. Then Montmorency must lie...

EMILE. South of the forest.

JEAN JACQUES. We know how to find the north at midday.

EMILE. Yes, by the direction of the shadows.

JEAN JACQUES. But the south?

EMILE. What shall we do?

JEAN JACQUES. The south is opposite the north.

EMILE. That is true; we need only find the opposite of the shadows. That is the south! That
is the south! Montmorency must be over there! Let us look for it there!

JEAN JACQUES. Perhaps you are right; let us follow this path through the wood.

EMILE. (Clapping his hands.) Oh, I can see Montmorency! there it is, quite plain, just in front
of us! Come to luncheon, come to dinner, make haste! Astronomy is some use after all.

Be sure that he thinks this if he does not say it; no matter which, provided I do not say it
myself. He will certainly never forget this day's lesson as long as he lives, while if I had
only led him to think of all this at home, my lecture would have been forgotten the next day.
Teach by doing whenever you can, and only fall back upon words when doing is out of the question.

The reader will not expect me to have such a poor opinion of him as to supply him with an example
of every kind of study; but, whatever is taught, I cannot too strongly urge the tutor to adapt
his instances to the capacity of his scholar; for once more I repeat the risk is not in what
he does not know, but in what he thinks he knows.

I remember how I once tried to give a child a taste for chemistry. After showing him several
metallic precipitates, I explained how ink was made. I told him how its blackness was merely
the result of fine particles of iron separated from the vitriol and precipitated by an alkaline
solution. In the midst of my learned explanation the little rascal pulled me up short with
the question I myself had taught him.  I was greatly puzzled. After a few moments' thought
I decided what to do. I sent for some wine from the cellar of our landlord, and some very cheap
wine from a wine-merchant. I took a small [Footnote: Before giving any explanation to a child
a little bit of apparatus serves to fix his attention.] flask of an alkaline solution, and
placing two glasses before me filled with the two sorts of wine, I said.

Food and drink are adulterated to make them seem better than they really are. These adulterations
deceive both the eye and the palate, but they are unwholesome and make the adulterated article
even worse than before in spite of its fine appearance.

All sorts of drinks are adulterated, and wine more than others; for the fraud is more difficult
to detect, and more profitable to the fraudulent person.

Sour wine is adulterated with litharge; litharge is a preparation of lead. Lead in combination
with acids forms a sweet salt which corrects the harsh taste of the sour wine, but it is poisonous.
So before we drink wine of doubtful quality we should be able to tell if there is lead in it.
This is how I should do it.

Wine contains not merely an inflammable spirit as you have seen from the brandy made from it;
it also contains an acid as you know from the vinegar made from it.

This acid has an affinity for metals, it combines with them and forms salts, such as iron-rust,
which is only iron dissolved by the acid in air or water, or such as verdegris, which is only
copper dissolved in vinegar.

But this acid has a still greater affinity for alkalis than for metals, so that when we add
alkalis to the above-mentioned salts, the acid sets free the metal with which it had combined,
and combines with the alkali.

Then the metal, set free by the acid which held it in solution, is precipitated and the liquid
becomes opaque.

If then there is litharge in either of these glasses of wine, the acid holds the litharge in
solution. When I pour into it an alkaline solution, the acid will be forced to set the lead
free in order to combine with the alkali. The lead, no longer held in solution, will reappear,
the liquor will become thick, and after a time the lead will be deposited at the bottom of
the glass.

If there is no lead [Footnote: The wine sold by retail dealers in Paris is rarely free from
lead, though some of it does not contain litharge, for the counters are covered with lead and
when the wine is poured into the measures and some of it spilt upon the counter and the measures
left standing on the counter, some of the lead is always dissolved. It is strange that so obvious
and dangerous an abuse should be tolerated by the police. But indeed well-to-do people, who
rarely drink these wines, are not likely to be poisoned by them.] nor other metal in the wine
the alkali will slowly [Footnote: The vegetable acid is very gentle in its action. If it were
a mineral acid and less diluted, the combination would not take place without effervescence.]
combine with the acid, all will remain clear and there will be no precipitate.

Then I poured my alkaline solution first into one glass and then into the other. The wine from
our own house remained clear and unclouded, the other at once became turbid, and an hour later
the lead might be plainly seen, precipitated at the bottom of the glass.

"This," said I, "is a pure natural wine and fit to drink; the other is adulterated and poisonous.
You wanted to know the use of knowing how to make ink. If you can make ink you can find out
what wines are adulterated."

I was very well pleased with my illustration, but I found it made little impression on my pupil.
When I had time to think about it I saw I had been a fool, for not only was it impossible for
a child of twelve to follow my explanations, but the usefulness of the experiment did not appeal
to him; he had tasted both glasses of wine and found them both good, so he attached no meaning
to the word "adulterated" which I thought I had explained so nicely. Indeed, the other words,
"unwholesome" and "poison," had no meaning whatever for him; he was in the same condition as
the boy who told the story of Philip and his doctor. It is the condition of all children.

The relation of causes and effects whose connection is unknown to us, good and ill of which
we have no idea, the needs we have never felt, have no existence for us. It is impossible to
interest ourselves in them sufficiently to make us do anything connected with them. At fifteen
we become aware of the happiness of a good man, as at thirty we become aware of the glory of
Paradise. If we had no clear idea of either we should make no effort for their attainment;
and even if we had a clear idea of them, we should make little or no effort unless we desired
them and unless we felt we were made for them. It is easy to convince a child that what you
wish to teach him is useful, but it is useless to convince if you cannot also persuade. Pure
reason may lead us to approve or censure, but it is feeling which leads to action, and how
shall we care about that which does not concern us?

Never show a child what he cannot see. Since mankind is almost unknown to him, and since you
cannot make a man of him, bring the man down to the level of the child. While you are thinking
what will be useful to him when he is older, talk to him of what he knows he can use now. Moreover,
as soon as he begins to reason let there be no comparison with other children, no rivalry,
no competition, not even in running races. I would far rather he did not learn anything than
have him learn it through jealousy or self-conceit. Year by year I shall just note the progress
he had made, I shall compare the results with those of the following year, I shall say, "You
have grown so much; that is the ditch you jumped, the weight you carried, the distance you
flung a pebble, the race you ran without stopping to take breath, etc.; let us see what you
can do now."

In this way he is stimulated to further effort without jealousy. He wants to excel himself
as he ought to do; I see no reason why he should not emulate his own performances.

I hate books; they only teach us to talk about things we know nothing about. Hermes, they say,
engraved the elements of science on pillars lest a deluge should destroy them. Had he imprinted
them on men's hearts they would have been preserved by tradition. Well-trained minds are the
pillars on which human knowledge is most deeply engraved.

Is there no way of correlating so many lessons scattered through so many books, no way of focussing
them on some common object, easy to see, interesting to follow, and stimulating even to a child?
Could we but discover a state in which all man's needs appear in such a way as to appeal to
the child's mind, a state in which the ways of providing for these needs are as easily developed,
the simple and stirring portrayal of this state should form the earliest training of the child's
imagination.

Eager philosopher, I see your own imagination at work. Spare yourself the trouble; this state
is already known, it is described, with due respect to you, far better than you could describe
it, at least with greater truth and simplicity. Since we must have books, there is one book
which, to my thinking, supplies the best treatise on an education according to nature. This
is the first book Emile will read; for a long time it will form his whole library, and it will
always retain an honoured place. It will be the text to which all our talks about natural science
are but the commentary. It will serve to test our progress towards a right judgment, and it
will always be read with delight, so long as our taste is unspoilt. What is this wonderful
book? Is it Aristotle? Pliny? Buffon? No; it is Robinson Crusoe.

Robinson Crusoe on his island, deprived of the help of his fellow-men, without the means of
carrying on the various arts, yet finding food, preserving his life, and procuring a certain
amount of comfort; this is the thing to interest people of all ages, and it can be made attractive
to children in all sorts of ways. We shall thus make a reality of that desert island which
formerly served as an illustration. The condition, I confess, is not that of a social being,
nor is it in all probability Emile's own condition, but he should use it as a standard of comparison
for all other conditions. The surest way to raise him above prejudice and to base his judgments
on the true relations of things, is to put him in the place of a solitary man, and to judge
all things as they would be judged by such a man in relation to their own utility.

This novel, stripped of irrelevant matter, begins with Robinson's shipwreck on his island,
and ends with the coming of the ship which bears him from it, and it will furnish Emile with
material, both for work and play, during the whole period we are considering. His head should
be full of it, he should always be busy with his castle, his goats, his plantations. Let him
learn in detail, not from books but from things, all that is necessary in such a case. Let
him think he is Robinson himself; let him see himself clad in skins, wearing a tall cap, a
great cutlass, all the grotesque get-up of Robinson Crusoe, even to the umbrella which he will
scarcely need. He should anxiously consider what steps to take; will this or that be wanting.
He should examine his hero's conduct; has he omitted nothing; is there nothing he could have
done better? He should carefully note his mistakes, so as not to fall into them himself in
similar circumstances, for you may be sure he will plan out just such a settlement for himself.
This is the genuine castle in the air of this happy age, when the child knows no other happiness
but food and freedom.

What a motive will this infatuation supply in the hands of a skilful teacher who has aroused
it for the purpose of using it. The child who wants to build a storehouse on his desert island
will be more eager to learn than the master to teach. He will want to know all sorts of useful
things and nothing else; you will need the curb as well as the spur. Make haste, therefore,
to establish him on his island while this is all he needs to make him happy; for the day is
at hand, when, if he must still live on his island, he will not be content to live alone, when
even the companionship of Man Friday, who is almost disregarded now, will not long suffice.

The exercise of the natural arts, which may be carried on by one man alone, leads on to the
industrial arts which call for the cooperation of many hands. The former may be carried on
by hermits, by savages, but the others can only arise in a society, and they make society necessary.
So long as only bodily needs are recognised man is self-sufficing; with superfluity comes the
need for division and distribution of labour, for though one man working alone can earn a man's
living, one hundred men working together can earn the living of two hundred. As soon as some
men are idle, others must work to make up for their idleness.

Your main object should be to keep out of your scholar's way all idea of such social relations
as he cannot understand, but when the development of knowledge compels you to show him the
mutual dependence of mankind, instead of showing him its moral side, turn all his attention
at first towards industry and the mechanical arts which make men useful to one another. While
you take him from one workshop to another, let him try his hand at every trade you show him,
and do not let him leave it till he has thoroughly learnt why everything is done, or at least
everything that has attracted his attention. With this aim you should take a share in his work
and set him an example. Be yourself the apprentice that he may become a master; you may expect
him to learn more in one hour's work than he would retain after a whole day's explanation.

The value set by the general public on the various arts is in inverse ratio to their real utility.
They are even valued directly according to their uselessness. This might be expected. The most
useful arts are the worst paid, for the number of workmen is regulated by the demand, and the
work which everybody requires must necessarily be paid at a rate which puts it within the reach
of the poor. On the other hand, those great people who are called artists, not artisans, who
labour only for the rich and idle, put a fancy price on their trifles; and as the real value
of this vain labour is purely imaginary, the price itself adds to their market value, and they
are valued according to their costliness. The rich think so much of these things, not because
they are useful, but because they are beyond the reach of the poor. Nolo habere bona, nisi
quibus populus inviderit.

What will become of your pupils if you let them acquire this foolish prejudice, if you share
it yourself? If, for instance, they see you show more politeness in a jeweller's shop than
in a locksmith's. What idea will they form of the true worth of the arts and the real value
of things when they see, on the one hand, a fancy price and, on the other, the price of real
utility, and that the more a thing costs the less it is worth? As soon as you let them get
hold of these ideas, you may give up all attempt at further education; in spite of you they
will be like all the other scholars--you have wasted fourteen years.

Emile, bent on furnishing his island, will look at things from another point of view. Robinson
would have thought more of a toolmaker's shop than all Saide's trifles put together. He would
have reckoned the toolmaker a very worthy man, and Saide little more than a charlatan.

"My son will have to take the world as he finds it, he will not live among the wise but among
fools; he must therefore be acquainted with their follies, since they must be led by this means.
A real knowledge of things may be a good thing in itself, but the knowledge of men and their
opinions is better, for in human society man is the chief tool of man, and the wisest man is
he who best knows the use of this tool. What is the good of teaching children an imaginary
system, just the opposite of the established order of things, among which they will have to
live? First teach them wisdom, then show them the follies of mankind."

These are the specious maxims by which fathers, who mistake them for prudence, strive to make
their children the slaves of the prejudices in which they are educated, and the puppets of
the senseless crowd, which they hope to make subservient to their passions. How much must be
known before we attain to a knowledge of man. This is the final study of the philosopher, and
you expect to make it the first lesson of the child! Before teaching him our sentiments, first
teach him to judge of their worth. Do you perceive folly when you mistake it for wisdom? To
be wise we must discern between good and evil. How can your child know men, when he can neither
judge of their judgments nor unravel their mistakes? It is a misfortune to know what they think,
without knowing whether their thoughts are true or false.  First teach him things as they really
are, afterwards you will teach him how they appear to us. He will then be able to make a comparison
between popular ideas and truth, and be able to rise above the vulgar crowd; for you are unaware
of the prejudices you adopt, and you do not lead a nation when you are like it. But if you
begin to teach the opinions of other people before you teach how to judge of their worth, of
one thing you may be sure, your pupil will adopt those opinions whatever you may do, and you
will not succeed in uprooting them. I am therefore convinced that to make a young man judge
rightly, you must form his judgment rather than teach him your own.

So far you see I have not spoken to my pupil about men; he would have too much sense to listen
to me. His relations to other people are as yet not sufficiently apparent to him to enable
him to judge others by himself. The only person he knows is himself, and his knowledge of himself
is very imperfect. But if he forms few opinions about others, those opinions are correct. He
knows nothing of another's place, but he knows his own and keeps to it. I have bound him with
the strong cord of necessity, instead of social laws, which are beyond his knowledge. He is
still little more than a body; let us treat him as such.

Every substance in nature and every work of man must be judged in relation to his own use,
his own safety, his own preservation, his own comfort. Thus he should value iron far more than
gold, and glass than diamonds; in the same way he has far more respect for a shoemaker or a
mason than for a Lempereur, a Le Blanc, or all the jewellers in Europe. In his eyes a confectioner
is a really great man, and he would give the whole academy of sciences for the smallest pastrycook
in Lombard Street. Goldsmiths, engravers, gilders, and embroiderers, he considers lazy people,
who play at quite useless games. He does not even think much of a clockmaker.  The happy child
enjoys Time without being a slave to it; he uses it, but he does not know its value. The freedom
from passion which makes every day alike to him, makes any means of measuring time unnecessary.
When I assumed that Emile had a watch, [Footnote: When our hearts are abandoned to the sway
of passion, then it is that we need a measure of time. The wise man's watch is his equable
temper and his peaceful heart. He is always punctual, and he always knows the time.] just as
I assumed that he cried, it was a commonplace Emile that I chose to serve my purpose and make
myself understood.  The real Emile, a child so different from the rest, would not serve as
an illustration for anything.

There is an order no less natural and even more accurate, by which the arts are valued according
to bonds of necessity which connect them; the highest class consists of the most independent,
the lowest of those most dependent on others. This classification, which suggests important
considerations on the order of society in general, is like the preceding one in that it is
subject to the same inversion in popular estimation, so that the use of raw material is the
work of the lowest and worst paid trades, while the oftener the material changes hands, the
more the work rises in price and in honour. I do not ask whether industry is really greater
and more deserving of reward when engaged in the delicate arts which give the final shape to
these materials, than in the labour which first gave them to man's use; but this I say, that
in everything the art which is most generally useful and necessary, is undoubtedly that which
most deserves esteem, and that art which requires the least help from others, is more worthy
of honour than those which are dependent on other arts, since it is freer and more nearly independent.
These are the true laws of value in the arts; all others are arbitrary and dependent on popular
prejudice.

Agriculture is the earliest and most honourable of arts; metal work I put next, then carpentry,
and so on. This is the order in which the child will put them, if he has not been spoilt by
vulgar prejudices. What valuable considerations Emile will derive from his Robinson in such
matters. What will he think when he sees the arts only brought to perfection by sub-division,
by the infinite multiplication of tools. He will say, "All those people are as silly as they
are ingenious; one would think they were afraid to use their eyes and their hands, they invent
so many tools instead. To carry on one trade they become the slaves of many others; every single
workman needs a whole town. My friend and I try to gain skill; we only make tools we can take
about with us; these people, who are so proud of their talents in Paris, would be no use at
all on our island; they would have to become apprentices."

Reader, do not stay to watch the bodily exercises and manual skill of our pupil, but consider
the bent we are giving to his childish curiosity; consider his common-sense, his inventive
spirit, his foresight; consider what a head he will have on his shoulders. He will want to
know all about everything he sees or does, to learn the why and the wherefore of it; from tool
to tool he will go back to the first beginning, taking nothing for granted; he will decline
to learn anything that requires previous knowledge which he has not acquired. If he sees a
spring made he will want to know how they got the steel from the mine; if he sees the pieces
of a chest put together, he will want to know how the tree was out down; when at work he will
say of each tool, "If I had not got this, how could I make one like it, or how could I get
along without it?"

It is, however, difficult to avoid another error. When the master is very fond of certain occupations,
he is apt to assume that the child shares his tastes; beware lest you are carried away by the
interest of your work, while the child is bored by it, but is afraid to show it. The child
must come first, and you must devote yourself entirely to him. Watch him, study him constantly,
without his knowing it; consider his feelings beforehand, and provide against those which are
undesirable, keep him occupied in such a way that he not only feels the usefulness of the thing,
but takes a pleasure in understanding the purpose which his work will serve.

The solidarity of the arts consists in the exchange of industry, that of commerce in the exchange
of commodities, that of banks in the exchange of money or securities. All these ideas hang
together, and their foundation has already been laid in early childhood with the help of Robert
the gardener. All we have now to do is to substitute general ideas for particular, and to enlarge
these ideas by means of numerous examples, so as to make the child understand the game of business
itself, brought home to him by means of particular instances of natural history with regard
to the special products of each country, by particular instances of the arts and sciences which
concern navigation and the difficulties of transport, greater or less in proportion to the
distance between places, the position of land, seas, rivers, etc.

There can be no society without exchange, no exchange without a common standard of measurement,
no common standard of measurement without equality. Hence the first law of every society is
some conventional equality either in men or things.

Conventional equality between men, a very different thing from natural equality, leads to the
necessity for positive law, i.e., government and kings. A child's political knowledge should
be clear and restricted; he should know nothing of government in general, beyond what concerns
the rights of property, of which he has already some idea.

Conventional equality between things has led to the invention of money, for money is only one
term in a comparison between the values of different sorts of things; and in this sense money
is the real bond of society; but anything may be money; in former days it was cattle; shells
are used among many tribes at the present day; Sparta used iron; Sweden, leather; while we
use gold and silver.

Metals, being easier to carry, have generally been chosen as the middle term of every exchange,
and these metals have been made into coin to save the trouble of continual weighing and measuring,
for the stamp on the coin is merely evidence that the coin is of given weight; and the sole
right of coining money is vested in the ruler because he alone has the right to demand the
recognition of his authority by the whole nation.

