So they did, but without evidence of overmastering haste or enthusiasm. Only half-dozen questions
on paper; very early got to business in Committee on Indian Councils Bill; supposed to be measure
involving closest interests of the great empire that CLIVE helped to make, and SEYMOUR KEAY
now looks after. Appearance of House suggestive rather of some local question affecting Isle
of Sheppey or Romney Marsh. Below Gangway, on Ministerial side, only MACLEAN present. Member
for Oldham a sizeable man, but seemed a little lost in space. Above Gangway RICHARD TEMPLE
on guard. Prince ARTHUR and GEORGIE CURZON had Treasury Bench all to themselves. Opportunity
for observing how cares of office are beginning to tell on GEORGE. Growing quite staid in manner,
the weight of India adding gravity to his looks, sicklying his young face o'er with pale cast
of thought. Pretty to see him blush to-night when SEYMOUR KEAY made graceful allusion to his
genius and statesmanlike conduct of affairs. "Approbation from Sir HUBERT STANLEY," as he later
observed, "is praise indeed."

Only sign of life and movement displayed below and above Gangway opposite. SCHWANN evidently
in running for BRADLAUGH's vacant place as Member for India. Fortunate in finding a party brimful
of energy, enthusiasm, eloquence, and encyclopædic knowledge--MORTON, SEYMOUR KEAY, SAM SMITH,
JULIUS 'ANNIBAL PICTON, SWIFT MACNEILL, and the CURSE OF CAMBORNE, who has been as far East
as the Cape, and therefore knows all about India.

Some Members looking across the waste place behind MACLEAN whilst he was delivering vigorous
speech, thought of poor LEWIS PELLY, who really knew something about India, and therefore would
probably not have spoken had he been here to-night. A kindly, courteous, upright, valiant gentleman,
who took a little too seriously the joke House had with him about the Mombasa business. Everyone
recalls his luminous speech on the question, with its graphic description of forced marches
"from So-and-so to So-on," dubious nights by night "from Etcetera to So-forth."

PELLY was with us when the House adjourned. In recess he, too, has made a forced march, passing
from the ordinary So-on into the unmapped So-forth.

MACLEAN's speech stirred up the dolorous desolate House. Only one other movement. This when
SEYMOUR KEAY, in one of several speeches dropped the remark, "I am sure my friends near me
will bear me out when I say--" Instant commotion below Gangway. SWIFT MACNEILL on his legs;
SCHWANN tumbling over PICTON; CONYBEARE cannoning against MORTON. All animated by desire to
take up KEAY and carry him forth. He breathlessly explained that it was merely a figure of
speech, and, they reluctantly resuming their seats, he went on to the bitter end.

Business done.--Practically none.

Tuesday.--Amid the pomps and vanities of a wicked world there is something refreshing and reassuring
in spectacle of SAGE OF QUEEN ANNE'S GATE going about his daily business. One would describe
him as childlike and bland, only for recollection that combination of harmless endearing epithet
has been applied in another connection and might be misunderstood. A pity, for there are no
other words that so accurately describe SAGE's manner when, just now, he rose to pose Prince
ARTHUR with awkward question about Dissolution. Wanted to know whether, supposing Parliament
dissolved between months of September and December in present year, a Bill would be brought
in to accelerate Registration? Terms of question being set forth on printed paper, not necessary
for the SAGE to recite them. For this he seemed grateful. It relieved him from the pain of
appearing to embarrass Prince ARTHUR by a reference to awkward matters. No one could feel acutely
hurt at being asked "Question No. 8.