No. CCCXLVII.    SEPTEMBER, 1844.    VOL. LVI.

CONTENTS.

  M. LOUIS BLANC,                                           265

  A NIGHT ON THE BANKS OF THE TENNESSEE,                    278

  THE EXECUTION OF MONTROSE,                                289

  THE WITCHFINDER. PART I.,                                 297

  NATURAL HISTORY OF MAN,                                   312

  POEMS BY COVENTRY PATMORE,                                331

  MARSTON; OR, THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN. PART XIII.,      343

  IT IS NO FICTION,                                         364

  THE BURNS' FESTIVAL,                                      370

  STANZAS FOR THE BURNS' FESTIVAL.

No. CCCXLVII.    SEPTEMBER, 1844.    VOL. LVI.

M. LOUIS BLANC{A}

M. Louis Blanc, a democratic journalist, with all, and perhaps more than the usual talents
of the Parisian journalist--with all, and more than the usual faults of one--has undertaken
to write the history of his country, during and since the revolution of 1830. What can we expect
to be the result of such an undertaking? What can we expect from a man who sits down to a task
of this description, animated with all the party virulence which gives zest to a democratic
newspaper? It is not a history, but a scandal, that he will write. M. Louis Blanc has distilled
the bile of journalism; he has paused over the hasty sarcasm which political animosity deals
forth, not to correct, or moderate, or abate, but merely to point and envenom it. His appreciation
of men, their character, their talents, their designs--all bear the hue of the atrabilious
journalist. There is this difference only between his history and the daily portion of envy
and malignity which a democratic newspaper pours forth, that the dye is more deeply engrained.
In the mind of the author, the stain of his party has become ineffaceable. Those who are pleased--and
the number is not few--with having high names and established reputations laid at their feet,
soiled, trod upon, will meet here with ample gratification. To be sure they will be occasionally
required, in lieu of such as they have thrown down, to set up the bust of some democratic celebrity,
whose greatness, or whose genius, they were not previously aware of. But, not to say that the
justice of party requires this substitution, it is a penalty which writers of this description
will invariably impose upon them. It is the common trick of the envious, and the mock magnanimity
with which they seek to conceal their true nature--to exalt the lowly, while they debase the
exalted. Since some idol there must be, let it be one of their raising. Even while helping
to raise it, they enjoy, too, the secret consciousness that it is of brittle metal.

But in the composition of a history, the spirit of party, however eager it may be, cannot always
guide the pen. The mere interest of the narrative, the strangeness and peculiarity of circumstances,
will claim their share of the author's mind. The politician must sometimes be absorbed in the
chronicler; and so it happens with M. Louis Blanc. His narrative often interests by its details;
and if it has the partiality, it has also the vivacious colouring, of a contemporary. It possesses,
also, a richness of anecdote--the fruit, probably, of his position as a journalist; add to
which, that M. Louis Blanc is not without a species of off-hand, dashing eloquence. He can
say daring things in a daring manner, and give the pungency of epigram to his political paradoxes.
He has a full share of that rhetoric of journalism which is so well calculated to make an impression
on the careless reader, but which requires that the reader should continue careless, in order
to retain the impression he has received. It results from all this, that while we constantly
distrust our guide, while we perpetually refuse the appreciation he offers to us of men and
events, we still read on with interest a work which is, at least, relieved from the charge
of insipidity or dulness; and indeed, if we had not derived some entertainment from its perusal,
we should not have thought of bringing it under the notice of our readers. To have engaged
ourselves merely in combating its errors and misrepresentations, would have been a dreary and
an endless task.

To enable the reader at once to judge of the tone and temper of M. Louis Blanc's politics,
we present him the following passage. It is the object of the long Introduction which precedes
his history, to show that the events which have transpired in France since 1793, have had,
for their great result, the establishment of the government of the middle classes through a
Chamber of Deputies--a view which we think is incontestably right. That France has its House
of Commons, is the great fruit of all its struggles, its calamities, and its victories. It
must not be supposed, however, that this is a result in which M. Louis Blanc rejoices. Nothing
he so much detests as this government of the middle classes; nor is there any portion of society
he vilifies more cordially than the bourgeoisie. Hear how he speaks of them. After relating
the history of the Carbonari, who troubled by their plots the reign of Louis XVIII., he says:--"This
Carbonarism never descended into the depths of society; it never moved the lower strata. How,
then, could it be preserved from the vices of the middle class--egoism, littleness of ideas,
extreme love of a mere material happiness, gross instincts!"--(P. 115.) So that he finds Carbonarism
to have lacked in virtue, because it had not descended, for its disciples, sufficiently low
in the scale of society!--to have grown corrupt, by reason of its not having penetrated to
the "lower strata!" And yet the duties of the Carbonari seem to have been precisely calculated
for these lower strata. These were, he had already told us himself, "to have a gun and fifty
cartridges, to be ready to devote one's-self, and to obey blindly the orders of unknown leaders."--(P.
101.)

When we describe M. Louis Blanc as a democrat, it is rather for want of a better and more accurate
title, than because this exactly describes him. A democrat is generally understood to be one
who has a large faith in the lowest class of the people, such as they really exist; our author
has a faith only in the future of this class. He does not fail to give vent, when the occasion
prompts him, to his compassion or contempt for the ignorant mass of mankind. The democracy
he worships is one to be established in some distant age, by a people very different, and living
under some modification of the law of property, which he has not thought fit to explain. It
is a democracy which has nothing distinct but its hatreds--a shadowy monster, peculiarly disagreeable
to deal with. Our historian writes with overflowing gall against kings, against aristocracies,
against the middle class. You would say he is a stanch republican, and that the people are
to be his depositaries of power. But no; a lamentation, which escapes him from time to time--as
bitter as any which Tory or Legitimist would utter--over the blindness of the people, their
passions and their ignorance, contradicts this conclusion. Where is the power, and in whom
lodged, that M. Louis Blanc would willingly obey, or see obeyed? It exists nowhere. Society
is corrupt, is chaotic; nor can it, by any organ it possesses, exercise a sound or rational
power. A new era must arise--how, whence, when, we are not instructed.

It is the peculiar characteristic of French democracy, that there is always mixed up with it
the principle, more or less distinctly avowed, of the community of goods. Perhaps the vagueness
we complain of in M. Louis Blanc, is dictated by mere prudence; perhaps there is no vagueness
to the eye of a propagandist. One sentiment of French democracy he certainly expresses with
sufficient hardihood. It is not often we meet with the principle of intervention between state
and state, asserted in these days with so much boldness as in the following passage:--"Men
have stigmatized the war in Spain, calling the principle of intervention an oppressive principle.
Puerile accusation! All people are brothers, and all revolutions cosmopolite. When a government
believes that it represents a just cause, let it make it triumph wherever a triumph is possible.
This is its right; it is more--it is its duty."--(Introduction, p. 120.)

How exactly analogous to this is the reasoning which leads to persecution in religion--to the
Holy Inquisition, and all its philanthropic schemes of intervention! The conviction in a good
cause allowed to overrule the fundamental principles of justice between man and man--to overrule
them, not occasionally and by way of exception, but systematically--this is the very essence
of persecution. But let no one think that, by any such representation, he would gain an advantage
over the republican propagandist. He no longer fears religious persecution--it is a thing past:
he braves it. He would adopt his favourite principle, and all its consequences. He would probably
admit that it was the duty of the priest, according to his priestly intelligence, to ban and
persecute. Not mutual toleration, but reciprocal compulsion, would be his principle. Combat
thou for thy truth--let me fight for mine; such would be his formula.

In a writer bent upon startling and surprising us, there is often a sort of premeditated haste,
a voluntary forgetfulness, which it is curious to remark. One who weighs his matter well before
he speaks, will often end, alas! in having something very tame and moderate to propound--something
which, after all his turmoil and reflection, may sound very like a good old commonplace. Now
this approximation to commonplace is the great horror of shallow writers; and the way to avoid
it appears to be this:--Proclaim your thought at once, in all its crude candescence, before
it has had time to cool and shape itself; then, in order to save your credit with the more
captions and scrutinizing, give, at some convenient interval, such an explanation or modification
as will show that, after all, you were as wise as your reader. State your paradox in all the
startling force of unmitigated diction, and refute it yourself afterwards, or say enough to
prove that you could have done so. This, well managed, gives two occasions for brilliant display;
a sober statement has been converted into a couple of bold and glancing propositions. Truth,
it is well proved, like the diamond, shines the more by being cut into surfaces.

M. Louis Blanc, for instance, makes a startling remark on the incompatibility of royalty and
a representative chamber. The two powers are represented to us as flatly irreconcilable. "Can
society," he asks, "have two heads? Is the sovereignty divisible? Between the government of
a king and the government of an assembly, is there not a gulf which every day makes wider?
And wherever this dualism exists, are not the people condemned to fluctuate miserably between
a 10th of August and an 18th Brumaire?"--(Int., p. 64.) And a little further on, speaking of
the times of Louis XVIII., he writes--"Meanwhile Europe began to be disquieted on the state
of things in France. Foreign sovereigns had thought to establish peace in our country, by establishing
the empire of the charter, and the political dualism which it consecrates. The error was great,
and they ended by discovering it. M. de Richelieu, who had been present at the congress at
Aix-la-Chapelle, brought back with him a very lively apprehension of the future fate of the
monarchy in France. A change of the electoral law was proposed. Unhappily, it was not in the
law of the 5th February that lay the danger which occupied the congress of Aix-la-Chapelle.
To consolidate the throne, and raise it above the storms which threatened it, not this or that
electoral law, but the electoral power itself, should, if possible, be abolished. For in whatever
hands this formidable lever was placed, it was impossible that royalty could long resist its
action. To shift the elective power was only to give the monarchy other enemies, not to save
it. * * * The aim of the new ministry was to preserve the electoral law; which amounted to
this--the monarchy chose ministers whose programme was the destruction of monarchy."

On reading such passages, we naturally set about recalling certain old-fashioned political
truisms, bearing on the character and interest of that middle class of society in which the
electoral power is generally lodged. We recollect that the middle classes have been held to
have an interest as well in preserving, as in checking and controlling the monarchy. Alone,
they could not govern society; and they have a larger share in the government, as partners
with the monarchy, than if they were absorbed in the general mass of the population. They have
every thing to lose by the abolition of a royalty which they have ceased to fear, and which
they have bound by laws. Such a royalty, with its sway over the imagination of the multitude,
with its strong hand of military power--hand in which the sword is allowed always to rest,
as pomp in time of peace, as weapon in time of war--such a royalty they feel to be their best
protection. Why, then, should they, in their electoral capacity, be thrust on by a blind rage
to destroy it? But all this train of reflection we might have spared ourselves. M. Louis Blanc
knows it all, and, if you will wait a reasonable time, he will show you that he knows it. He
will put it to you very forcibly--in another place. Accordingly, some ninety pages off, he
tells us:--"At bottom, the middle class (la bourgeoisie) sees in the monarchy a permanent obstacle
to democratic aspirations: it would have subjected royalty, but not destroyed it."

For the enlightenment of those who may wish to write history in the most captivating manner,
and at the least possible expense to themselves, we will reveal another fruitful expedient.
There are two ways of writing history. You may either deduce its great events from certain
wide and steadily-operating causes, as the growing wealth or intelligence of a people, or you
may raise a vulgar wonder by describing them as the result of some quite trivial incident.
In the one case, you appeal to a philosophic taste; in the other, to a popular love of the
marvellous. A revolution may be represented as the inevitable outbreak of the discontent and
misery of the people; or it may be traced, with all its disasters, to the caprice of a courtier,
or perhaps the accidental delay of a messenger.

The two manners seem incompatible. Never mind. Use them both--both freely, independently--just
as occasion prompts, and the effect requires. Flatter the philosophic taste that delights in
generalities, and please the childish wonder which loves to fancy that the whole oak--trunk,
branches, leaves--lay in the acorn. M. Louis Blanc has certainly no idea of forfeiting either
of these attractions by laying claim to the other. Observe the ease and boldness with which
he embraces them in his narrative of the fall of Napoleon, and the restoration of the Bourbons.
He commences in the generalizing mood.

"The fall of Napoleon lay in the laws of the development of the middle classes. Can a nation
be at the same time essentially commercial and essentially warlike? Napoleon must have renounced
his great part of military chieftain, or he must have broken with the spirit of citizenship
and commerce. It was madness to think of reigning by the sword, and continuing the Constituent
Assembly. France could not have, at the same time, the destinies of Rome and Carthage. Napoleon
succumbed, and must have succumbed, to the Carthaginian party of the people of France. But
if the necessary development of the middle classes called for the overthrow of the empire,
it demanded also the return of the Bourbons. To prove this, we have only to present, in its
instructive simplicity of detail, that narrative of the restoration which so many historians
have distorted."--(Int., p. 18.)

Well, he proceeds with this simple and instructive detail; and his first object is evidently
to deprive Talleyrand, to whom on all occasions he manifests a singular bitterness, of the
credit generally given him of having aided materially in the recall of the Bourbons in 1814.
But does he effect this by showing, as from this exordium we might expect, that his countrymen
of the middle class, wearied of the costly triumphs and disasters of the empire, had begun
to sigh for peace and their old kings? Not at all. He transfers the personal share in the drama
from Prince Talleyrand to Baron de Vitrolles. The Duke d'Alberg had introduced the baron to
Talleyrand, whose intention was to employ him merely to sound the views of the Allies. Talleyrand
was to have accredited him by some lines of his own writing, but ultimately refused to commit
himself. How was Baron de Vitrolles, who by no means limited himself to the subordinate part
designed for him, and on whom it will be seen so much really depended, to get accredited to
the Allies?

The Duke d'Alberg was intimately acquainted with the Count de Stadion, representative of Austria
at the congress. Now these two friends had formerly, at Munich, had a certain tender intimacy
with two young girls, whose names the Duke d'Alberg remembered; he wrote them on the leaf of
a pocket-book, and they served as a letter of credence to the adventurous ambassador. "Such,"
exclaims our lately generalizing historian--"such is the manner in which God disposes of the
fate of nations!--Voilà de quelle sorte il plait à Dieu de disposer du sort des peuples!"

The Baron de Vitrolles, we are told, found the Emperor Alexander possessed with a strong repugnance
against the Bourbons. It cost him three hours' conversation to gain him over. But he succeeded.
It was he who did gain him over. On the 31st of March, when the Emperor of Russia entered Paris,
Talleyrand stepped forward to receive him.

"Well," said Alexander, "it seems that France recalls the Bourbons."

These words occasioned M. Talleyrand a profound surprise, which, however, he was too skilful
a diplomatist to betray. From that moment, he was a convert to what he considered the successful
cause. "Thus," continues our historian, "this restoration took place contrary to the will of
the people, to whom the Bourbons in 1814 were unknown; contrary to the sympathies of Alexander,
who feared the dangers of a reaction; contrary, in fine, to the opinion of M. Talleyrand, who
had never thought it possible, and had desired only the regency of Marie Louise!"

What particle of truth there may be in this narrative, we do not stop to enquire; we refer
to it only as an example of the bold union of the two historic manners. The restoration of
the Bourbons was "in the laws of the development of the middle classes!" It was all owing to
the Baron de Vitrolles, and that lucky little intrigue at Munich!

It is one of the boasts and privileges of history to reverse the judgment that contemporaries
have formed of the character of the actors in it. This privilege M. Louis Blanc, since he writes
history, is determined at all events to seize upon; and he can boast, perhaps, of having reversed
more judgments of this kind than any other historian, however voluminous. M. Talleyrand has
obtained his reputation for ability--his moral reputation it would be too commonplace a matter
to attack--by "speaking in monosyllables one half his life, and saying nothing the other half."
M. Guizot is a man "whose talent consists in concealing, under the solemnity of expression
and the pomp of formulæ, an extreme poverty of views, and sentiments without grandeur." M.
Dupin, the elder, is "skilful in concealing, under an affectation of rudeness, the pusillanimity
of his heart." Cuvier, whose scientific reputation is untouched, probably because no motive
led him to assail it, is "homme plus grand par l'intelligence que par le coeur." Of Metternich
he writes--"A lover of repose from selfishness, he sought it also from incapacity. He wished
to enjoy a reputation easily usurped, the falsehood of which the least complication of events
would have exposed." And the picture he gives throughout of Casimir Perier is that of an "illustrious
charlatan," in whom nothing was genuine but his pride, his hate, and his physical infirmities.

The ministers of Charles X. meet with a much fairer appreciation than those of Louis Philippe.
Towards them, one might even say that he is indulgent. This is easily accounted for: in the
war of party, those with whom we come into the closest and most frequent collision, must, of
course, excite the largest share of our animosity. M. de Polignac seems to have been aware
that he had little to fear from the fierce democrat: he has not disdained a sort of literary
participation in the work, having contributed some manuscript notes of his own, explanatory
of his share in the transactions of 1830. Altogether, we may presume that the history, so far
as it relates to the ministers of Charles X., is not unfairly written. Let us approach the
narrative by this quarter.

It is a singular picture that M. de Polignac presents to the imagination, with his unruffled
serenity, his extreme audacity, his violent measures, his negligent preparation, his strong
will, his weak intelligence. The minister is always smiling, and, in the midst of disaster
and ruin, is still beaming with self-confidence; he seems to have thought that self-confidence
wrought like magic, or like faith, and could of itself remove mountains. If difficulties occurred,
his resource was to be still more self-confident. He was well aware of the hostility his ordonnances
would create; he was well aware that the army must be their veritable support: yet observe
with what a sublime air of nonchalance he prepares himself for the subjection of a people.
"How many men," asked M. d'Haussez, as the ministers sat round the council-table, "can you
reckon on at Paris?--have you twenty-eight or thirty thousand?" "More," said the premier; "I
have forty-two thousand;" and, rolling up a paper which he held in his hands, he threw it across
the table to d'Haussez. "But," said the latter, as he looked over the statement that had been
given to him, "I see here only thirteen thousand. Thirteen thousand men on paper--that amounts
to about seven or eight thousand actually ready to fight your battles. And the other twenty-nine
thousand to complete your number, where are they?" M. de Polignac assured him that they were
spread about the neighbourhood of Paris, and in ten hours, if it were necessary, could be assembled
in the capital. The ministers felt, adds our historian, that they were entering into a dreadful
game blindfold.

M. de Polignac appears to have relied upon the army, much in the same way that a speculative
writer, theorizing upon government, rests upon his great abstraction, the military power. He
treated it as if it were a principle, an idea, that developed itself without his aid, and not
a palpable fact of there being a certain number of armed men, then and there, to fight for
his ordonnances.

There is no virtue so much applauded in the present day as resolution--will; and there are
who regard a strong will as the essence of all virtue. But the history of M. de Polignac proves,
(if this needed proof,) that the weak can have will enough. Your strong will may be purchased
at the sole expense of reason. Let there be one idea in a brain that cannot hold two, and you
have a strong will. M. de Polignac never wavered once; he was always seen with a smiling countenance,
calm, radiant with hope and self-approval. When others around him began to despond, when the
Duke of Ragusa, commander of the forces, writing to the king, said that it was not a riot,
but a revolution, and advised him to retreat while he could still retreat with honour, the
minister had, for all answer, but one word--"Fire!" It was still, Fire! But what if the troops,
it was asked, desert to the people? "Then fire on the troops!"

On the publication of the ordonnances, the members of the Chamber who were in Paris met at
each others' houses to discuss measures of resistance. But it was not from the members of the
Chamber that the movement was to emanate. Those who had any position to compromise looked on,
for the most part, with anxiety and astonishment, waiting to see what current the disturbed
waters would finally take. "On the evening of the 27th, a man, name unknown, appeared on the
Quai d'Ecole, and paraded the banks of the river with the tri-coloured flag, which had been
folded up and hidden away for fifteen years." The symbol was adopted by the people. The revolution
had commenced.

Then followed all those strange scenes of levity and blood, buffoonery and heroism, which the
history of Parisian revolutions has familiarized to the imagination, but which, nevertheless,
have an inexhaustible interest. The people arm themselves wheresoever and howsoever they can.
One brings into the Place de la Bourse two large hampers, full of muskets and accoutrements.
They come from the Théâtre du Vaudeville, where a piece had been played, a few days before,
which required that a number of actors should be armed. To command men thus equipped there
were extemporary generals, whose epaulets were obtained from the wardrobe of the Opera Comique.
The students of the Polytechnic were, as usual, on the alert to practise whatever they had
learned of military science; the younger sort entering into the war with the same spirit that
other schoolboys partake of any minor mischief that is going forward. A student of the Polytechnic
is standing on the left bank of the river; he has a musket, but no ammunition. A fellow-student,
a lad of fifteen, has a packet of cartridges, but no musket: "You shall share them," said he,
showing his treasure, "if you will lend me the gun to shoot my half." A party of the royal
guard were coming over the bridge. He started with the gun to have his shots. He was swept
off with others by the fire of the military.

On one side comes a party led by a violin, women applauding. But the women do more than applaud.
They carry great paving-stones to the top of the house, to be thence precipitated on the heads
of the soldiers; they tend the wounded, they bruise charcoal for gunpowder.

There was, no doubt, some severe fighting during the Three Days; but, generally speaking, the
military seem to have entered into the contest with reluctance. Some instances are here given
of singular forbearance on their part. At a time when, in certain quarters of Paris, each house
was converted into a sort of fortress whence the military was assailed, three men had placed
themselves behind a stack of chimneys, and had, from this shelter, directed a destructive fire
on the troops. They were at length discovered, and a cannon was levelled against the chimney.
But, before firing, the gunner made signal to the men to escape, contenting himself with demolishing
their breastwork. As another company of soldiers, led by its officer, was marching through
the streets, one of the mob rushed forward, and, with a mad audacity, struck the officer on
the head with a bar of iron. He staggered, and his face overflowed with blood; but he still
had strength enough to raise his sword to put aside the muskets of his men, who were in the
act of firing on the assailant.

We have here a vivid description of the taking of the Tuileries by the populace. Some amused
themselves by mutilating the statues of kings, or by firing at the portraits of such of the
marshals as they considered to have been guilty of treason to Napoleon. A number of artisans
installed themselves in the chamber of the throne; they sat, each in his turn, upon the royal
seat, afterwards they placed a corpse in it. Some of them drew, over shirts stained with blood,
the court-dresses which had circled the waist of royal princesses, and strutted about in this
masquerade. Riot and destruction as much as you please, but no theft--such was the order of
the day. A young man was bearing off a hat, decorated with plumes of a costly description.
"Where are you going," cried his companions, "with that hat?" "It is only a souvenir," said
he of the hat. "Ha! good; but in that case the value is nothing." So saying, they took the
hat and trampled it under their feet, and then returned it to him--doubly valuable as a souvenir.
Many striking traits of honesty were exhibited. One man brought a vase of silver to the prefect
of police, and did not even leave his name. Another found a bag of three thousand francs in
the Louvre, and hastened with the money to the Çommune. The next day he was probably amongst
the number who were wandering about Paris without bread and without work, driven out of employment
by the commercial panic of their own glorious revolution.

A scene of a like grotesque description took place, at a later period, on the return of the
mob from Rambouillet, where they had gone in search of the unhappy Charles X. The king had
left Rambouillet before the mob reached it, so that they had nothing to do but to return, unless
any work of demolition should invite them to stay. M. Degoussée, at that moment the man in
authority, in order to save the royal carriages from destruction, bethought him of the expedient
of offering a ride home in them to the most violent and redoubtable of the mob. In a moment
these gilded vehicles, blazoned with the royal arms, were filled with the lowest of the rabble,
who projected their pipes and their bayonets from the windows. These state carriages, drawn
by eight horses, and driven by silken postilions, were heaped up, inside and out, with this
riotous crew, who entered Paris in triumph, amidst the responsive jests and shouts of the populace.
Driven up to the Palais Royal, they there descended from their splendid vehicles, and delivered
them over to their new owner. "Tenez--voilà vos voitures!" they shouted, as they alighted under
the windows of the Duke of Orleans.

It is curious to remark the contrast between the thoughtless, reckless bravery of the combatants
of July, and the watchful timidity of the politicians who were ultimately to profit by their
courage and infatuation. The soldiers had, at many points, fraternized with the people--all
was success for the popular party--and the drawing-room of M. Lafitte was full of distinguished
men of that party.

"The court of the hotel," continues M. Blanc, "was now full of soldiers. Five of the royal
officers entered the saloon. M. Lafitte, who had been wounded in the leg, received them sitting
in an arm-chair. He received them with great blandness and dignity. 'Gentlemen,' said he, 'keep
your arms, but swear never to turn them against the people.' The officers extended their hands,
as if to take an oath. 'No oath, gentlemen,' said M. Lafitte with much emotion; 'kings have
dishonoured oaths. The word of the brave is sufficient.' This was received with universal applause,
and every one present resigned himself to the excitement of the hour; when suddenly a discharge
of musketry was heard. How describe the tumult that in a moment filled the apartment! The royal
guard was certainly victorious--the enemy would be down on them--every one fled. They rushed
into the hall, they pushed, they struggled for egress. Some jumped through the windows of the
ground-floor into the garden. Two deputies were found hiding in the stables. In an instant,
M. Lafitte was abandoned by all those who had besieged his arm-chair. His nephew was the only
person who remained with him. And what had happened? The soldiers of the 6th had followed the
example of their comrades of the 55th, and, gained over to the cause of the people, they had
fired their muskets in the air!"

Already, at the first outbreak of the revolution, some one had remarked--"here were a good
game for the Duke of Orleans, if he has the courage to play it." Courage he had, but equal
caution it seems, equal prudence. A deputation had proceeded from the house of Lafitte to Neuilly,
the residence of the Duke, to invite him to the throne; but it was the Duchess who received
them. The Duke himself had taken refuge at Raincy. To Raincy messengers were sent. The Duke
of Orleans ordered his carriage. Those who were waiting his arrival at Neuilly heard the wheels
approach--heard them suddenly recede. The carriage had turned, and was regaining Raincy with
all the speed possible. The resolution was not quite taken, or the pear was not quite ripe.

His entry into Paris, according to M. Blanc, was made on foot in the evening, and he clambered
like a common citizen over the barricades. Arrived at the Palais Royal, he sent to notify his
presence to Lafitte and Lafayette--representatives, the one of the Chamber, and the other of
the Hotel de Ville--and also to the Duke de Mortemart, minister of Charles X. The interview
with this last took place the same evening, and had for its apparent object to proclaim, in
the presence of the minister, his attachment and unalterable fidelity to the elder branch of
the Bourbons. When De Mortemart arrived, he was ushered into a little cabinet on the right,
which looks upon the court, not ordinarily used as an apartment of the family.

The Duke of Orleans was stretched upon the floor, lying on a mattrass, in his shirt. His forehead
was bathed in sweat;{B} the glare of his eyes, and every thing about him, betrayed a great
fatigue, and a singular state of excitement. On seeing the Duke de Mortemart enter, he began
to speak with great rapidity. He expressed himself with much volubility and ardour, proclaiming
his attachment to the elder branch, and protesting that he came to Paris only to save the town
from anarchy. At this moment a great noise was heard in the court, and the cry was raised of
Vive le Duc d'Orleans! "You hear that cry," said the minister; "it is you the people call for."
"No, no!" answered the Duke with increasing energy. "They shall kill me before I accept the crown."

The next morning the deputation from the Chamber presented itself at the Palais Royal; and
so far was resolved, that the Duke of Orleans was proclaimed lieutenant-general of the kingdom.

M. Louis Blanc gives several anecdotes respecting the King of the French, and his successive
ministers, which we should be disposed to extract, but that his political antipathies lying
exactly in this quarter, we have not felt sufficient confidence in their authority. For this
reason we will pass on abruptly to a portion of the work where the political bias of the writer
is harmless, or where it may have induced him to inform himself more accurately on his subject
than the generality of persons.

This last is evidently the case in his account of the doctrines and practices of the St Simonians.
One who felt no sympathy with any portion of their creed, would not have taken the trouble
to obtain accurate information, or an intimate knowledge on this subject. Not that M. Blanc
is a St Simonian; to do him justice, he has argued with ability and clearness against their
leading tenets or maxims; but being a man devoted to a new order of things of some kind or
other, he has given naturally a more than usual attention to this sect, and we think our readers
will hold themselves obliged to us, if we abridge some portion of his account of St Simon and
his disciples.

"The founder of the St Simonian school had been deceased five years when the revolution of
July broke out. He belonged to one of the noblest houses of France, bearing the name and arms
of that famous Duke de St Simon, the historian of the reign of Louis XIV., and the last of
our veritable grands seigneurs. Yet it was the privilege of birth that he attacked, and the
impiety of war that he proclaimed. He was a man of singular independence of mind, and of extreme
moral courage. Convinced that, before dictating a code for the regulation of human life, it
was necessary to have attentively analysed that life as it actually exists, he spent the first
half of his days in studying society under all its aspects; recoiling from no experience, practising,
in the character of an observer, even vice as well as virtue; drawing a lesson from his own
frailties, and making a study of his own follies. He dissipated his fortune in premeditated
prodigality, and terminated a studious opulence in excessive poverty; living on the miserable
salary of a copyist, when in idea he was governing the world. In the estimation of some, a
sage--of others, a madman; at one time sanguine to enthusiasm, at another discouraged to the
point of attempting suicide; reduced at last to the condition of a mendicant, after having
so often united round his table, in order to observe and judge them, the most celebrated men
in art and literature. Such was St Simon in life and character: it remains to see what were
the intellectual results he arrived at."--(Vol. III. p. 96.)

His first project of a code for human life was sufficiently ridiculous. In a work entitled
Letters from an Inhabitant of Geneva to his Contemporaries, he addressed himself to the learned
portion of the world, inviting them to undertake the government of the human race. The programme
was as follows. A subscription was to be opened before the tomb of Newton. Every one was called
upon to subscribe according to his means, rich and poor, man and woman; and each subscriber
was to have a voice in the selection of--three mathematicians, three natural philosophers,
three chemists, three physiologists, three men of letters, three painters, and three musicians.
These several threes, amounting to twenty-one, besides having the produce of the subscription,
were to form a council, called the Council of Newton, and undertake the spiritual government
of the world, directing the efforts of the several nations of the globe towards one common end.

The learned portion of the world made no response to this invitation; he therefore next addressed
himself to the operatives, declaring that the time was come to tear the crown from the brow
of idleness, and establish the reign of labour. The king was now to be the chief of artisans,
his ministers enlightened workmen; and the electoral right was to be so placed as to transfer
all power from the proprietor of the soil to the cultivator, from the capitalist to the journeyman.
One would say that, piqued with the indifference of the most literate portion of mankind, he
was determined to offer the government of the world to the most illiterate. Since the Royal
Society would not accept the ball and sceptre which he had placed at its disposal, he gave
them over to the Trades' Union.

But neither would this satisfy him. He who appeals to the lowest order of minds must confine
himself to what is intelligible to, and influential on the lowest; and this would hardly accord
with one who, at all events, had led an intellectual life, of however wild an order. He again
reverted to the thinking classes, and to some modification of his first idea; and his New Christianity--his
last and most complete effort--has for its object to erect an intellectual and spiritual government
of the world. Taking his analogy from the spiritual dominion of the church of Rome, but finding
that that power was too restricted in its exercise, inasmuch as the material interests and
scientific labours of mankind were not embraced by it, he called for the foundation of "a religious
power, which, embracing humanity in all its interests, should conduct it towards a Christian
purpose--the amelioration of the lot of the great multitude of mankind; by their sentiments
employing artists, by their reason employing the learned, and by their activity employing the
operative."

Whatever may be the importance of this conception, it answered one purpose--it satisfied the
builder's mind. St Simon died full of faith and hope. When he bade his eternal adieus to the
few disciples who surrounded his dying bed, he regarded his work as completed, his mission
as fulfilled. "The fruit is ripe," said he; "you will gather it."

The disciples of St Simon still further elaborated and disseminated his doctrines; and a school
was formed which recognised MM. Enfantin and Buzard for its chiefs. It need hardly be said,
that the new order of society was to be founded on universal benevolence--no war, and no rivalry--and
the industry of mankind organized in such sort, that to each man would be assigned according
to his capacity, and to each capacity according to its works.

We quote with pleasure the remarks (tinctured though they are by his own peculiar opinions)
which M. Blanc makes on this famous formula:--"In preaching a universal association of men,
founded on benevolence--in demanding that industry should be regularly organized, and that
she should establish her empire on the ruins of a system of violence and war, the St Simonians
showed a thorough intelligence of the laws which will one day govern humanity. But they overthrow
with one hand the edifice they erect with the other, when they announce this famous formula--To
each according to his capacity; to each capacity according to its works--a formula wise and
equitable in appearance, but in reality subversive and unjust.

"If we say that a man, in virtue of his intellectual superiority, is to adjudge to himself
a larger share than others of the goods of this world, what right have we to censure the sturdy
barbarian, who, in virtue of his physical superiority, was wont to take the lion's share to
himself? We have changed the basis on which the tyranny rested--the tyranny remains. The St
Simonians, it is true, justify their formula on the grounds of public utility; it is well,
say they, to stimulate talent by recompense. But is it necessary that the recompense of talent
be of this gross and material kind? that it be counted down in so much wealth? Thank Heaven!
man has other and more energetic motives. With a piece of riband to be attached to the buttonhole,
Napoleon could make an army of a million of men rush forward upon danger and death. The word
glory, well or ill understood, has always decided the destinies of the world. What is amply
sufficient when the work of destruction is in hand, by what disastrous fatality does it become
incompetent when the task is to produce and to create? Is it not true that great men have always
sought and found their principal recompense in the very exercise of their high faculties? If
society had wished to recompense Newton, it would have been utterly powerless to do so; there
was for Newton, in all the world, no other or sufficient recompense, but the joy he must have
felt when his genius discovered the laws which govern the planets. * * * The greater the intelligence,
the greater the sphere of action; but not necessarily the greater the material recompense.
The inequality of capacities can legitimately conduct to the inequality only of duties."

The revolution of 1830 gave a wonderful stimulant to the little society of St Simon. It extended
rapidly, and adjourned its sittings from a private house to an ample theatre, where three tiers
of boxes held the admiring or ironical auditory. Fêtes, and the presence of charming women,
increased the number of proselytes; artists, physicians, advocates, poets, flocked to share
in the generous hopes of the new era. The capital and the provinces were portioned out into
new departments, to accord with the new administration of affairs, and St Simonism had also
its map of France. The two chiefs, or fathers, took upon themselves the ambitious title of
popes. They already cast their eyes upon the Tuileries. Louis-Philippe was summoned by letter
to yield his place to MM. Enfantin and Buzard. St Simonism was already a government destined
to replace the authority of the Catholic church.

But there were schisms in this new church--Pope Enfantin thinking one thing and Pope Buzard
another; and that, too, on the important topic of matrimony. The principal adepts of the sect
met together, and held strange fanatical discussions for the discovery of the truth on these
controverted points. It is worthy of remark, that St Simonism, as well as Irvingism or Mesmerism,
could boast of its convulsions and its prophecies.

"At this time there passed in the Rue Monsigny, in the midst of this sceptical and mocking
France, scenes so extraordinary, that, to find their parallel, we must revert to the history
of the Anabaptists. Those who had hitherto resisted the extreme doctrines of Father Enfantin,
felt as if impelled against their will to the borders of some immense abyss. With the rest,
it was an accession of fervour altogether indescribable, an exaltation which ended in delirium.
There, in a room, the doors of which were carefully closed, and whose thick walls betrayed
no sound, discussions were continued whole days and whole nights without interruption, without
relief, without repose. It sometimes happened that a young man, incapable of sustaining these
consuming vigils, reeled and fainted; they removed the apparently lifeless body without suspending
the discussion. M. Caseaux was in an ecstasy for an hour, and began to prophesy. Another day,
M. Olinde Rodrigues was struck as if by apoplexy; because, asking each of the members in turn
whether it was not true that the Holy Spirit was in him, (M. Olinde Rodrigues,) one of the
persons interrogated had the temerity to answer by certain expressions of incredulity. The
fit was extremely violent, and Dr Fuster, in order to save the patient, had recourse to a formal
retractation from the inconsiderate respondent, who, on his part, was full of affliction for
the mischief he had occasioned. Such, even on men of serious thought and elevated understanding,
may be the effect produced by a belief carried to a certain point of excitement."

Such, too, may be the danger of contradicting a prophet; and we intend to take the hint, and
never be guilty of so great an imprudence. These dissensions, accompanied with certain financial
difficulties, led to a rupture, and the family of the Rue Monsigny were compelled to dissolve.

"In this crisis, the profound calm of Enfantin never deserted him. He possessed, at Ménilmontant,
a house and garden; here he resolved to seek a place of retreat, of study, and of labour, for
himself and his more faithful disciples. Forty of these followed him to this retreat, and there
commenced the life in common, combined always with a just sentiment of the true hierarchy of
society. Poets, artists, officers, musicians, all devoted themselves in turn to the rudest
and coarsest labours. They repaired the house, they swept the courts, they cleaned the chambers
and polished the floors; they dug up the uncultivated soil, they covered the walks with gravel,
extracted from a pit which they themselves had excavated. To prove that their ideas on the
nature of marriage, and the emancipation of women, were pure from any selfish or sensual calculations,
they imposed upon themselves the law of celibacy. Morning and evening they nourished their
mind with the words of the father, or, in the lives of the Christian saints read aloud, they
found example, encouragement, and precept. Hymns, the music of which one of their members had
composed, served to elevate their minds and charm their labours. At five o'clock, dinner was
announced by the sound of a horn. Then these philosophic workpeople piled up their tools, arranged
their wheel-barrows symmetrically, and took their place, after having first sung 'the prayer
before repast.'"

In this retreat they adopted a distinctive dress, of which one portion, the waistcoat, was
symbolical; it was so made that it could not be put on without the help of a brother--and thus
was calculated perpetually to call to mind the necessity of mutual aid. On the day of the institution
of this habit, Enfantin declared that he and his followers had renounced all rights to property
according to the existing law, and had duly qualified themselves to receive "the honourable
wages" of labour.

But this fantastical experiment was cut short by the interference of the law. A public prosecution
was instituted against the St Simonians; and Père Enfantin, and other chiefs of the sect, were
brought before the tribunal at Paris. It will be easily understood that the court that day
was crowded with spectators, eager to see the St Simonians, especially Enfantin, who appeared
in a violet-coloured robe, with the words LE PÉRE written in large letters on his breast. When
asked by the president, whether he did not style himself the Father of Humanity--whether he
did not profess to be the Living Law--he answered, "Yes!" with perfect calmness and assurance.
The discourse he delivered in his own defence was chiefly remarkable for the long pauses he
made from time to time, occupying himself with looking steadfastly at the president, or the
advocate-general. He said he wished to make them feel "the power of the flesh." But this species
of animal magnetism appears to have had no other effect than that of irritating the court.
He and some others were condemned to pay a fine, and suffer a year's imprisonment. The family
was dispersed. For the present there was an end to St Simonism.

A history is hardly complete without a plague, or pestilence, or famine, or some such wide-spreading
calamity, on which the historian can spend the dark colours of his descriptive eloquence. Considering
that M. Louis Blanc had but the space of ten years under him, he must have regarded himself
as very fortunate in meeting with the cholera, which figures here as a very respectable pestilence.
The carrying forth the dead, naked and uncoffined, in open carts, is an image often presented
to us in descriptions of this nature; but it is perhaps surpassed in terrible effects by the
one here offered to us, of the bodies of those who had died of the cholera piled up in carts
and tumbrils, in coffins so hastily and slightly constructed, that, as they rattled over the
stones, there was constant danger of their horrible contents being poured upon the pavement.
But the strange reports that were afloat amongst this credulous and passionate populace, form
the most striking feature in the picture. It was reported in Paris, as our readers will probably
remember, that there was, in reality, no cholera, but that poison had been poured into the
fountains of the metropolis, and had been mingled with the wine and the flour; and thus it
was that the people were dying. It was dangerous to be found with a phial in the hand, or to
be seen sitting, without any ostensible cause, near one of the public fountains. A young man
was looking into a well; he was massacred. Another met the same fate, who was leaning over
the door of a dealer in wine and spirits, in order to see what o'clock it was. A Jew in the
market-place was thought to have a sinister laugh; they searched him, found a packet of white
powder--it was camphor--they killed him, and set on the dogs to tear the body.

And then that insurrection against the mud-carts--what an insight does it give into the wide-spreading
and tangled interests of a modern capital! It was impossible to touch the mud of Paris without
periling the subsistence of eighteen hundred persons. What more fit, what more innocuous to
all parties, it would seem, than to clear away the mud from the streets--to clear it away as
soon as possible, that it should not lie there, exhaling pestilence during the heat of the
day? But stop--there are in Paris some eighteen hundred persons who gain their bread out of
this mud, groping in it, and extracting from it every article of the least commercial value.
With a basket slung upon their back, and a crook in their hand to facilitate their search,
these chiffoniers are to be seen in every quarter of the city, congregating wherever there
is dirt. And now, if all that is thrown out of the houses of Paris is taken away before these
industrious persons have had time to search it, what is to become of the whole profession of
chiffonerie? These new mud-carts, with their ruthless sweepers, traversing the city at dawn
of day, must be broken up and thrown into the Seine; and it was done so accordingly.

There is a peculiar charm, we think, in having related to us, for the first time, in the shape
of history, what we remember to have read and talked over as the news and gossip of the day.
We seem to be present at the making of history. We see facts, as the death of princes, which
made so much stir and confusion, sink into the commonplace of the historical record; while
anecdotes, which were repeated and forgotten, may stand forward as instructive proofs of the
temper of the times, and the spirit of the past age. More than one such anecdote we think we
could select from the pages before us; but it is possible we might draw them from a purer source
than the work of M. Louis Blanc, to which our readers will perhaps think that we have already
given more than sufficient space.

FOOTNOTES:

{A} Histoire de Dix Ans, 1830-1840. Par M. LOUIS BLANC.

{B} As well it might, if he had been clambering over barricades in those hot days of July;
for the three glorious days were remarkable for their heat.

A NIGHT ON THE BANKS OF THE TENNESSEE.

"Can you tell us how far we are from Brown's ferry?" said I to a man, who came suddenly and
silently upon us from a narrow side-path.

We were on the banks of the Tennessee: the evening was drawing in; the fog, that hung over
land and river, was each moment thickening. The landscape had a wild chaotic appearance, and
it was scarcely possible to distinguish objects at five paces distance.

The horseman paused some moments before answering my question. At last he replied, accompanying
his words with an ominous shake of the head--

"To Brown's ferry? Perhaps you mean Cox's ferry?"

"Well, then--Cox's ferry," said I, rather impatiently.

"Ay, old Brown is dead," continued the man, "and Betsy has married young Cox. Ain't it him
you mean?"

"That we know nothing about," replied I; "but what we wish to learn is, whether we are far
from the ferry, and if this is the right road to it."

"Ah! the way to the ferry--that's the rub, man! You're a good five miles off, and might just
as well turn your horse's head another way. I guess you're strangers in these parts?"

"Heaven preserve us!" whispered my friend Richards, "we are in the hands of a Yankee; he is
guessing already."{A}

Meantime the horseman had drawn nearer to us, in spite of the thorns and of the wet boughs,
that each moment slapped and slashed him across his face; and he was now close to our horse.
As far as we could distinguish through the rapidly-increasing gloom, he was a middle-aged man,
bony and long-legged, with a sallow unprepossessing physiognomy surmounting his long ungainly
carcass, and metal buttons upon his coat.

"And so you've lost your way?" said the stranger after a long pause, during which the thick
fog had had the kindness to convert itself into a close penetrating rain. "That's queer too,
seein' that the ferry ain't fifteen paces from the road, which runs right along the side of
the river. A very queer mistake to be goin' up the stream, instead of followin' yer nose and
the run of the water."

"What do you mean?" cried Richards and I in a breath.

"That you're goin' up the Tennessee instead of down it, and are on the road to Bainbridge.
That's all!" replied the supposed Yankee.

"On the road to Bainbridge!" repeated we, in voices in which astonishment and vexation were
tolerably evident.

"You hadn't a mind to go to Bainbridge, then?"

"How far is the infernal place from here?" asked I.

"How far, how far?" repeated the man with the metal buttons. "It's not to say very far, nor
yet so very near, as I may guess. Perhaps you know Squire Dimple?"

"I wish you and Squire Dimple were at the devil!" muttered I. But Richards, who took things
more quietly, replied--

"No, we have not the honour of his acquaintance."

"Humph! And whereaway may you be goin'?" enquired our tormentor, who was apparently waterproof.

"To Florence in Alabama," answered Richards, "and thence down the Mississippi."

"Ah, fine city, Florence! such as one only finds in this country. Ain't it now? And a good
market, too. Talkin' of that, what's the price of flour in the north? You're come from thereaway,
I guess. I did hear it was six and four levies, and Injun corn five and a fip--butter three fips."

"Are you mad?" cried I, losing all patience, and unconsciously raising my whip as I spoke--"are
you stark staring mad, to keep us talking here about flour and butter, and fips and levies,
while the rain is falling by bucketsfull?"

"Hallo, stranger!" cried the man, raising himself for the first time out of his lounging position
on the saddle. "Guess you're gettin' wolfish. I'm for you--stick, fist, or whiphandle, rifle
or bowie-knife. Should like to see the man as could leather Isaac Shifty!"

"The road, the road, Mister Isaac Shifty!" interrupted friend Richards in a conciliating tone.
There was another long pause.

"I guess you're traders," said the fiend at last.

"No, man."

"And what may you be, then?"

Our answer was followed by another long inspection of our persons and physiognomies. He gazed
at us for a couple of minutes or more, examining us from head to foot; at last he spoke.

"And so you've a mind to go down the Mississippi?"

"Yes, in the Jackson, which starts to-morrow, we are told."

"Ah, the Jackson! a mighty good steamboat too--ain't it now? But I guess you ain't a thinkin'
of takin' that thing and your horse with you?" continued the Yankee, pointing to our gig.

"Yes, we are."

"Oh, you are! Well.--You haven't seen two women in a dearborn on the road, have you?"

"No, we have not."

"Well, then," continued the man in the same indifferent tone, "it's a'most too late now to
get to Bainbridge; and yet you might try it, too. Better turn your horse round, and follow
the road till you come to a big walnut-tree; there it divides. Take to the right hand for half
a mile, till you come to neighbour Dims's hedge; then you must go through the lane; and then,
for about forty rods, right through the sugar-field; keep to your left till you come to some
rocks, but then turn to your right, if you don't want to break your necks. There's a bit of
a stream there; and when you are over that, the left-hand road will take you straight to Cox's
ferry. You can't miss it," concluded he, in a self-satisfied tone, striking his horse a blow
with his riding-whip. The animal broke into a smart trot, and in ten seconds our obliging friend
had disappeared into the fog.

My countenance, during the Yankee's interminable directions, must have somewhat resembled that
of a French recruit, to whom some scarred and mustached veteran is relating his Egyptian campaigns,
and telling him wonderful stories of snakes and crocodiles at least half a mile long--monsters
who made nothing of swallowing a drum-major to their breakfast, bearskin cap, cane, and whiskers,
included. I was so completely bothered and confounded with the rights and lefts, that the metal-buttoned
individual was out of sight and hearing before I thought of explaining to him, that, dark as
it then was, we should never be able to find even the walnut-tree, let alone neighbour Dims's
hedge and the break-neck rocks. Patience is by no means one of my virtues; but the man's imperturbable
phlegm and deliberation, in the midst of the most pouring rain that ever wetted poor devil
to the skin, tickled my fancy so exceedingly, that the sound of his horse's hoofs had hardly
died away, when I burst into an almost interminable fit of laughter. "First right, then left--look
out for the big walnut-tree, and don't break your neck over the crags!" repeated I, in a tone
between merriment and despair. Richards, however, saw nothing to laugh at.

"The devil take the Yankee!" cried he. "May I be hanged if I know what you find so amusing
in all this!"

"And hang me if I know how you manage to look so grave!" was my answer.

"How could we possibly have missed the ferry?" cried Richards; "and, what is still more stupid,
to come back instead of going forward!"

"Not very astonishing," replied I, "considering the multitude of by-roads and cross-roads,
and waggon-tracks and cattle-paths, and the swamp into the bargain. It is quite impossible
to see which way the river runs. And then you have been sleeping all the afternoon, and I had
to find the way by myself."

"And you found it after an extraordinary fashion--retracing your own steps," said Richards
in a vexed tone. "It is really too stupid."

"Very stupid," said I--"to sleep."

As may be seen, we were on the verge of a quarrel; but we were old and sincere friends, and
stopped in time. The discussion was dropped. The fact was, that our mistake was by no means
a very surprising one. The country in which we were, seemed made on purpose to lose one's-self
in. The road winds along at some distance from the river, frequently out of sight of it; the
shore is uneven, covered with crags and hillocks; nothing like a landmark to be seen, or a
mountain to guide one's-self by, except occasionally, when one gets a peep at the Appalachians
rising out of the blue distance. The fog, however, had hidden them from us, and that just at
the time when we most wanted them as guides. We found ourselves in a long low clearing--a sort
of bottom, as they call it in that country--which was laid out in sugar-fields, and through
which there ran nearly as many cart-roads as there were owners to the land. The morning had
been bright and beautiful; but, towards noon, a grey mist had begun to rise in the south-western
corner of the horizon, and had gone on, thickening and advancing, till it spread like a pall
over the Tennessee. With a grey wall of fog on one side, and the swamp, intersected with a
hundred cross-paths, on the other, we had gone on for about a mile; until it got so thick and
dark, that it was quite as possible we should find our way into the marsh as over the Mussel
shoals.{B} So certain was I, however, of the proximity of the latter, that I pushed on, expecting
each moment to find the ferry, until the unlucky Yankee brought all my hopes to a termination.

It was now quite night--one of those dreary pitch-dark nights that are of no unfrequent occurrence
in the south-western states. I would as soon have been on the banks of Newfoundland as in this
swamp, from which nothing was more probable than that we should carry away a rattling fever.
The Yankee's directions concerning the road were, as may be supposed, long since forgotten;
and even had they not been so, it would have required cat's eyes to have availed ourselves
of them. Even the owls, the nightingales of that neighbourhood, seemed puzzled by the extreme
darkness. We could hear them whooping and screaming all around us; and now and then one flew
against us, as if it had lost its way as well as ourselves. The road we were now following
ran close to the bank of the river; so close, indeed, that a single stumble of our horse might
have precipitated us into the water, which was then very high.

"I think we should do our best to get out of the gig," said I to my companion; "or else we
have a very good chance of passing the night in the Tennessee."

"No danger," replied Richards, "Cæsar is an old Virginian."

A shock that made our very ribs crack again, and as nearly as possible threw us backwards out
of the gig, came rather opportunely to interrupt this eulogium on Cæsar, who had suddenly reared
furiously up on his hind-legs.

"There must be something in the path," cried Richards. "Let us see what it is."

We got out, and found a huge walnut-tree lying right across the road. Here was an end to our
journey. It was an absolute impossibility to get the gig over the enormous trunk; the boughs,
which spread out full twenty yards in every direction, had given Cæsar timely warning of the
impediment to our further progress. The road, moreover, was so narrow that it was impossible
to turn. There was nothing for it but to back out. Richards began hunting about for a cross-road,
where we might turn; I set to work to back the gig. I had no sooner, however, set one foot
out of the road, than my cloak was almost torn from my shoulders by a thorn half a yard long.
To get through this detestable wilderness with a whole skin, one ought to have been cased in
complete armour. I had only just taken my unfortunate garment off this new-fashioned cloak-peg,
when Richards returned.

"This is the most infernal wilderness in all the west!" said he. "Neither road nor path, mud
up to the ears, and, to add to my enjoyment, I have left one of my boots in the swamp."

"And, for my part, there are as many holes in my cloak as thorns on that cursed acacia-tree,"
replied I by way of consolation.

These were the last words we spoke in any thing like a jesting tone; for we were now wet to
the skin: and of all situations, I believe a damp one to be the least favourable to jocularity.
I confess a certain partiality for adventures, when they are not carried too far. There is
nothing I detest like a monotonous wearisome Quaker's journey, with every thing as tame, and
dull, and uniform, as at a meeting of broad-brims; but to be overtaken by darkness and a deluge
in the middle of a maple-swamp, to be unable to go three steps on one side without falling
into the Tennessee, with an impenetrable morass and thicket on the other hand, a colossal walnut-tree
barring the way in front, and no possibility of turning back--this was, even to my taste, rather
too much of an adventure.

"Well, what is to be done now?" said Richards, who had placed himself in a sort of theatrical
posture--his bootless foot on the gig-step, the other sticking fast in the mud.

"Take out the horse, and draw the gig back," suggested I.

Easily said, but rather more difficult to accomplish. We set to work, however, with a will;
and pushed, and tugged, and pulled, till at last, after much labour, we got the gig about thirty
paces backwards, where the road became wider. We then turned it, and were putting Cæsar into
the shafts, when, to our inexpressible delight, a loud hallo was given quite close to us.

Reader, if you were ever at a hard contested election, where you had bet your fifty or a hundred
dollars on your favourite candidate, and just when you made sure of losing, and your five senses
were almost extinguished by noise, brandy, and tobacco smoke, you heard the result proclaimed
that secured you your stake, and a hundred per cent to boot; if you have ever been placed in
such circumstances, then, and then only, can you form an idea of the joyful feeling with which
we heard that shout. After such a thorough Yankee fashion was it given, that it caused the
fog to break for a moment, and roused the obscene inhabitants of the neighbouring swamp from
their mud-pillowed slumbers. They set up a screeching, and yelling, and croaking, that was
lovely to listen to.

"And now have patience, for Heaven's sake!" whispered Richards to me, "and hold your tongue
for a quarter of an hour, or you will spoil all with this infernal Yankee."

"Do not be afraid," replied I; "I am dumb."

My blood was certainly tolerably cooled by the shower-bath I had had--to say nothing of the
prospect of passing the night in this vile hole; and I would willingly have given the tenacious
Yankee information concerning the prices of flour and butter in every state of the Union, upon
the sole condition that he should afterwards help us out of this reservoir of fever.

It was, as we had at once conjectured, our friend Mr Isaac Shifty, in soul, body, and buttons.
In true Connecticut fashion, he stood a couple of minutes close to us without saying a word.
It almost looked as if he took a delight in our difficulties, and was in no particular hurry
to extricate us from them. For our part, we kept very much on our guard. The cross-grained
scarecrow might likely enough have left us to our fate again, if we had said any thing that
did not exactly chime in with his queer humour. Richards at last broke silence.

"Bad weather," said he.

"Well, I don't know. I shouldn't say it was though, exactly," returned the Yankee.

"You have not met the two women you were looking for, have you?"

"No. Guess they'll have stopped at Florence, with cousin Kate."

"You are not thinking of going there too, are you?" said Richards.

"No. I'm goin' home. I thought you were at the ferry by this time."

"Perhaps we should have been, if your roads were better, and the holes in them filled up with
stones instead of walnut-trees," returned Richards, laughing.

"Guess you ain't inclined to go to the ferry to-day?"

"Inclined we are, but able we are not," replied Richards; "and you will acknowledge, my friend,
that is a pretty strong reason for not going."

"Well, so it is," replied the man sententiously. "It ain't very agreeable lyin' out in the
swamp; and so, stranger, if you like to go to Bainbridge, you can come with me. Better let
me drive, and my mare can follow behind."

It took at least five minutes before the wearisome, pedantical fellow had finished his arrangements
and preparations. At last, to the infinite satisfaction of Richards and myself, we sat three
in the gig. After undergoing a questioning and cross-questioning that would have done honour
to an experienced diplomatist, we had succeeded in striking up a sort of alliance with Mr Isaac
Shifty, and were on our way to one of the hundred famous cities of Alabama--cities which have
decidedly not their match in the whole of the United States.

I do not know how it happens, but I am constantly finding myself disappointed in my expectations.
I had hoped that the distance between the infernal maple swamp and the place to which we were
going, would have borne some sort of relative proportion to the agreeableness of our situation--that
is to say, that it would not be very great. It nevertheless appeared to me enormous, and Horace's
impatience during his celebrated walk was trifling compared to mine. Our Yankee, like the Roman
babbler, had abundance of time to discourse on fifty different subjects. The first which he
brought before our notice was naturally his own worthy person. From the interesting piece of
biography with which he favoured us, we learned that he was originally from Connecticut, and
that his first occupation had been that of usher in a school; which employment he had, after
a short trial, exchanged for the less honourable but more independent one of a pedlar. From
that he had risen to be a trader and shop-keeper, and was now, as he modestly informed us,
a highly respectable and well-to-do man. He next gave us an account of all the varieties of
merchandise in which he dealt, or ever had dealt; intermixing the details with an occasional
side-blow at a certain Mr Bursicut, who had dared to set up an opposition store, and whom Providence
had punished for his presumption by the loss of sundry dozen knives and forks, and pairs of
shoes, upon the Mussel shoals. He then found occasion to talk of the thousand and one mishaps
that had occurred upon the aforesaid Mussel shoals; and thence branched off into the various
modes of water-carriage which the enlightened inhabitants of Alabama were accustomed to employ.
After amusing us for some time with long histories concerning steam-boats and keel-boats, barks
and flat-boats, broad-horns, dug-outs, and canoes, he glided into some canal-making scheme,
which was to connect the waters of the Tennessee with Heaven knows what others. It was a most
monstrous plan--that I remember; but whether the junction was to be made with Raritan bay or
Connecticut river, I have clean forgotten. At last we came to the history of Bainbridge--a
sure sign, as I thought, with much inward gratulation, that we were approaching the end of
our journey; yet the accomplishment of this hope, reasonable as it was, was doomed to be deferred
a long time. We had first to listen to the whole history and topographical description of that
celebrated city; how it had sprung up in the right corner, he reckoned; and how flourishing
and industrious it was; and whether we had not a mind to settle there--because if we had, he,
Mr Isaac Shifty, had some almighty fine building land to sell; and how the town already boasted
of three taverns, just the right proportion to the ten houses of which Bainbridge consisted.
We should find two of the taverns chokeful of people, he said, because there was a canvass
going on for the Florence election; as to the third, it was a poor place, hardly habitable indeed.

At the word canvass, Richards and I looked aghast.

"An election coming on!" stammered Richards.

"An election!" repeated I, the words dying away upon my tongue from consternation at this unwelcome
news. An election in Alabama, which even in old Kentucky is considered as backwoods! Farewell,
supper and sleep, and comfortable bed and clean linen! every thing, in short, which we had
flattered ourselves with obtaining, and which we stood so much in need of, after such a hard
day's journey.

Before we had time to make any further enquiries, Cæsar, who had for some time been splashing
through a sea of mud, stood suddenly still. The light of a tallow candle, glimmering and flaring
through an atmosphere of tobacco-smoke, and the hoarse and confused sounds of many voices,
warned us that we had reached the haven. We sprang out of the gig; and whilst Richards was
tying Cæsar to a post, I hurried to the door, when I felt myself suddenly seized by the skirt
of my cloak.

"Not there--not there! This is the house where you are to stop," exclaimed Mr Isaac Shifty,
pointing anxiously to an adjacent edifice, that looked something between a house and a pigsty.

"Don't go with him," whispered I to Richards, heartily glad to be at last independent of the
insupportable Yankee, and to be able to vex him a little in my turn. My hand was already on
the latch; I opened the door, and we entered.

There sat the burgesses of Bainbridge, with their heels upon the table--those, at least, for
whom there were chairs; while those for whom there were none, made shift with tubs, or stood
up in various elegant attitudes. There was a prodigious amount of talking, shouting, drinking,
and laughing going on; and my first feeling was, that I would rather have been any where else
than in that worshipful assembly. Richards, however, stepped boldly forward, in spite of his
bootless foot; and luckily the men appeared disposed to be upon their best behaviour with us.
They pressed back right and left, forming a lane about a foot wide, enclosed between living
palisades, six feet and upwards in height, through which we passed, subjected, as we did so,
to a searching inspection. Richards stepped smartly up to the table, then turned round, and
confronted the group of half-horse, half-alligator visages there assembled.

"A hurra for old Alabama!" cried he, "and the devil take the Bainbridge roadmaster!"

"Are you mad?" I whispered to him.

"May I be scalped if you don't soon feel the weight of these five bones upon your carcass,
stranger!" growled a voice, proceeding from a sort of mammoth that had just filled itself a
half-pint tumbler of Monongahela. Before the double-jointed Goliath put his threat into execution,
he swallowed the whisky at a gulp, and then, striding forwards, laid his open hand upon my
companion's shoulder, with a force that threw the poor fellow on one side, and gave him the
appearance of being crooked. At the same time the giant stared Richards in the face, with an
expression which the natural hardness of his features, and the glimmer of his owl-like eyes,
rendered any thing but agreeable.

"The devil take the Bainbridge roadmaster--I repeat it!" cried Richards, half in earnest and
half laughing, raising his muddy and bootless foot as he spoke, and placing it on a chair.
"See there, men! I may thank him for the loss of my boot. The cursed swamp between here and
the ferry was kind enough to pull it off for me."

The roar of laughter that responded to these words would inevitably have broken the windows,
had there been any glass in them. Fortunately the latter luxury was wanting; its place being
supplied by fragments of old inexpressibles, and of ci-devant coats and waistcoats.

"Come, lads!" continued Richards, "I mean no offence; but of a surety I have to thank your
bad roads for the loss of my boot."

Richard's jest, exactly adapted to the society in which we found ourselves, was the most fortunate
impromptu that could have been hit upon. It seemed at once to have established us upon a footing
of harmony and friendship with the rough backwoodsmen amongst whom we had fallen.

"May I be shot like a Redskin, if that ain't Mister Richards from Old Virginny, now of the
Mississippi," suddenly exclaimed the same colossus who had so recently had his hand upon Richards's
shoulder, twisting, as he spoke, his wild features into a sort of amicable grin. "May I never
taste another drop of rale Monongahela, if you sha'n't drink a pint with Bob Snags the roadmaster!"

It was the very dignitary whom Richards had insulted with such imminent risk to his shoulder-blade.

"A hurra for old Virginny!" shouted the master of the roads, biting, as he spoke, into a piece
of tobacco from that famous state. "Come, mister--come, doctor!" continued the man, offering
Richards with one hand a roll of tobacco, with the other a pint glassful of whisky.

"Doctor!" repeated the whole assembly--"a doctor!"

A man possessing power over gin and whisky, and whose word is an indisputable veto against
even a smaller, is no unimportant personage in that feverish neighbourhood. In this instance,
Richards's doctorship was of the double utility of delivering us from the threatened pint-glasses,
and of causing us to be considered as privileged guests--no small advantage in a backwoods'
tavern, occupied as the headquarters of an electioneering party. Cæsar, however, was the first
to derive a positive profit from the discovery. Bob left the room for a minute or two, and
we could hear the horse walking into the stable. When the roadmaster returned, he had assumed
a patronizing sort of look.

"Mister Richards!" said he confidentially, "Mister Richards! May I be shot if you ain't continually
a sensible man, with more rale blood in your little finger than a horse could swim in. Yes,
and I'll show you that Bob Snags is your friend. I say, doctor, what countryman is your horse?"

"A thorough-bred Virginian," replied Richards.

"The devil he is!" cried Bob. "Well, doctor, to prove to you that I'm your friend, and that
I ain't forgotten old times, I'll swop with you without lookin' at him. May I be shot if I
ain't reg'larly cheatin' myself. Well, I'm uncommon glad to see you again. Bob Snags has no
reason to fear lookin' a rale gemman in the face. Come, lads, none of yer jimmaky, and slings,
and poorgun,{C} and suchlike dog's wash, but ginuine Monongahela--that's the stuff. Hurra for
Old Virginny! Well, doctor, it's a deal--ain't it?"

"No, Bob," said Richards, laughing; "your generosity is so truly Alabamian, that I cannot make
up my mind to accept it. For the present, at least, I must keep my Virginian. It is my wife's
saddle-horse."

"But Swiftfoot," replied Bob, in a cordial confidential manner--"Swiftfoot is a famous trotter."

"It won't do, Bob," was the answer. "I should not dare show myself at home without Cæsar."

Bob bit his lips, a little vexed at not being able to make a deal; but another half-pint of
whisky, which he poured down as if it had been spring water, seemed to restore him to good
humour. Meanwhile my wet clothes were beginning to hang heavy upon me, and to steam in the
hot atmosphere in which we were. Bob, who had already cast several side-glances at me, now
turned to Richards.

"And who may the mister be?" said he.

The mention of my name and condition, procured me a welcome that I could willingly have dispensed
with. After the shake of the hand with which Bob favoured me, I looked at my finger-nails,
to see if the blood was not starting from under them. The fellow's hands were as hard and rough
as bear's paws.

"Very glad that you're come, boys," said Bob in a low confidential tone. "I'm just makin' a
try for the next Assembly; and it's always good, you know, to have somebody to speak to one's
character. How long is it, Mister Richards, since I left Blairsville."

"Eight years," replied my friend.

"No, Harry," whispered the roadmaster; "may I be shot if it's more than five."

"But," replied Richards, "I have been living five years by the Mississippi, and you know"----

"Ah, nonsense!" interrupted Bob. "Five years--not an hour more. D'ye understand?" added he
cautiously--"five years, if you're asked."

The facts were thus. This respectable candidate for the representation of his fellow-citizens,
had made his escape from his previous residence, the birthplace of Richards, on account of
certain misdeeds, of which the sheriff and constables had taken cognizance, and after wandering
about for a few years, had settled in Bainbridge county, where he seemed to have thriven--as
far, at least, as whisky and human weakness had allowed him. We could hardly help laughing
outright at the importance which Bob thought proper to attribute to us before his companions,
the independent electors, whose votes he was desirous of securing. Æsculapius himself was a
mere quacksalver compared to Squire Richards, whose twenty-five negroes were rapidly multiplied
into a hundred; while my poor neglected plantation was, between brothers, well worth five hundred
thousand dollars. We allowed Mr Bob to have it his own way; for it might have been dangerous
to contradict a giant of his calibre, who was always ready to support his arguments with his
huge cocoa nut-coloured fists. At last Richards was able to slip in a word.

"You are not going to make your speech now, are you?"

"May I be shot if I ain't, though! I'll begin at once."

"Cannot we manage to change our clothes, and get some supper first?" said Richards.

"Change your clothes!" said Bob contemptuously. "And what for, man? Not on our account; you're
quite smart enough, quite good enough for us--no occasion to bother yourselves. If it's for
your own pleasure, however, you can do it. Hallo, Johnny!"

And he commenced a negotiation with Johnny, the host, who, to our great joy, took up a candle,
and led the way into a sort of back parlour, with a promise that we should have our supper
before very long.

"Is there no other room where we can dress ourselves?" said I.

"To be sure there is," was the answer. "There's the garret--only there's my daughter and a
dozen gals sleepin' there; then there's the kitchen, if you like it better."

I looked round the room. A servant girl was beginning to lay the table; and, unluckily, the
apartment was connected by an open door with the kitchen, in which there was a loud noise of
voices. I would have given a good deal for a quarter of an hour's undisturbed possession of
the room. I looked about for our portmanteaus, but could see nothing of them.

"Six smalls it ain't buffalo hide!" vociferated a young Stentor in the kitchen.

"Six smalls its cow hide!" roared another.

"If I am not very much mistaken," said Richards, "it is our portmanteaus that those fellows
are betting about."

"That would really be too bad," said I.

Nevertheless, it was as Richards had said. We had little occasion to fear that the portmanteaus
would be lost or injured; but we knew very well that the only way to get them out of the claws
of these rough backwoodsmen would be by some well-contrived joke. And those jokes were exactly
what I feared; for one had often to risk breaking an arm or a leg by them. There was a crowd
of men in the kitchen. One young fellow, upwards of six feet high, held a lighted candle; and
they were all busily engaged examining something which lay in the middle of the floor.

"No," cried a voice, appealing apparently from a decision that had been given, "I won't pay
without I see the inside."

They were debating whether the portmanteaus were of buffalo or cow hide. They had caught sight
of them as they were being carried through the kitchen into the back-room, and had at once
seized upon them as good subjects for a bet. It was time for us to interfere, if we did not
wish to see our trunks ripped open, for the sake of ascertaining the quality of the leather.

"Sixteen smalls," cried Richards, "that it's deer hide!"

"Done!" thundered half a score voices, with loud peals of laughter.

"It is a bet, then," said my friend; "but let us see what we are betting about."

"Make way for the gemmen!" cried the men.

"Our portmanteaus!" exclaimed Richards, laughing. "No, certainly, they are not deer hide. Here
is my bet."

A loud hurra followed the payment of the dollar which my friend handed over; and we now found
ourselves in undisputed possession of our baggage. The next thing to be done was to endeavour
to get the room to ourselves for a few minutes.

"We wish to be left alone for a short time," said I to the help, who was bustling in and out,
and covering the table with innumerable plates of preserved fruits, cucumbers, beet-root, and
suchlike edibles.

I shut the door.

"That is the surest way to have it opened again," said Richards.

He had hardly uttered the words, when, sure enough, the door flew open, amidst a peal of uproarious
laughter.

"Tail!" cried one fellow.

"Head!" shouted another.

"They want another dollar," said Richards. "Well, they must have it, I suppose. Head!" cried he.

"Lost!" roared the fellows in chorus.

"There is something for you to drink," said my friend, whose wonderful patience and good-humour
was bringing us so fortunately through the shoals and difficulties of this wild backwoods'
life. We now shut the door, and had time enough to change our wet clothes for dry ones. We
were nearly dressed, when a gentle tapping at the only pane of glass of which the room window
could boast attracted our attention. On looking in the direction of the sound, we distinguished
the amiable features of Mr Isaac Shifty, who, upon our entering the tavern, had thought proper
to part company.

"Gentlemen," whispered he, removing the remains of an old waistcoat, which supplied the place
of one of the absent panes, and then applying his face to the aperture--"Gentlemen, I was mistaken.
Our spies say you are not come to the election, but that you are from lower Mississippi."

"And if we are, what then?" replied I dryly. "Didn't we tell you as much at first?"

"So you did, but I wasn't obliged to believe it; and d'ye see, they're a-canvassing here for
next election, and we've got an opposition in the other tavern; and as we knew that Bob Snags's
people were expectin' two men from down stream, we thought you might be they."

"And so, because you thought we should vote against you, you allowed us to stick in the mud,
with the agreeable prospect of either breaking our necks or tumbling into the Tennessee?" said
Richards laughing.

"Not exactly that," replied the Yankee; "though if you had been the two men that were expected,
I guess we shouldn't have minded your passing the night in the swamp; but now we know how matters
stand, and I'm come to offer you my house. There'll be an almighty frolic here to-night, and
p'r'aps somethin' more. In my house you can sleep as quiet as need be."

"It won't do, Mr Shifty," said Richards, with a look that must have shown the Yankee pretty
plainly that his object in thus pressing his hospitality upon us was seen through; "it won't
do, we will stop where we are."

The latch of the door leading into the kitchen was just then lifted, which brought our conversation
to a close. During the confabulation, our Yankee's sharp grey eyes had glanced incessantly
from us to the door; and hardly was the noise of the latch audible, when his face disappeared,
and the old waistcoat again stopped the aperture.

"He wants to get us away," said Richards, "because he fears that our presence here will give
Bob too much weight and respectability. You see they have got their spies. If Bob and his people
find that out, there will be a royal row. A nice disreputable squatter's hole we have fallen
into; but, bad as it is, it is better than the swamp."

The table was now spread; the tea and coffee-pots smoking upon it. The supper was excellent,
consisting of real Alabama delicacies. Pheasants and woodcocks, and a splendid haunch of venison,
which, in spite of the game-laws, had found its way into Johnny's larder--wheat, buckwheat,
and Indian-corn cakes; the whole, to the honour of Bainbridge be it spoken, cooked in a style
that would have been creditable to a Paris restaurateur. By the help of these savoury viands,
we had already, to a considerable extent, taken the edge off our appetite, when we heard Bob's
voice growling away in the next room. He had begun his speech. It was high time to make an
end of our supper, and go and listen to him under whose protecting wings we were, and to whom
we probably owed it, that we had got so far through the evening with whole heads and unbroken
bones. Backwoods' etiquette rendered our presence absolutely necessary; and we accordingly
rose from table, and rejoined the assemblage of electors.

At the upper end of the table, next to the bar, stood Bob Snags, in his various capacity of
president, speaker, and candidate. A thickset personage, sitting near him, officiated as secretary--to
judge at least from the inkstand with which he was provided. Bob looked rather black at us
as we entered, no doubt on account of our late arrival; but Cicero pleading against Catiline
could not have given a more skilful turn to his oration than did Bob upon the occasion of our
entrance.

"And these gemmen," continued he, "could tell you--ay, and put down in black and white--no
end of proofs of my respectability and character. May I be shot by Injuns, if it ain't as good
as that of the best man in the state."

"No better than it should be," interposed a voice.

Bob threw a fierce look at the speaker; but the smile on the face of the latter showing that
no harm was meant, the worthy candidate cleared his throat and proceeded.

"Yes," said he, "we want men as know what's what, and who won't let themselves be humbugged
by the 'Ministration, but will defend our nat'ral born sovereign rights. I know their 'tarnal
rigs, inside and out. May I be totally swallowed by a b'ar, if I give way an inch to the best
of 'em; that is to say, men, if you honour me with your confidence and"----

"You'll go the whole hog, will you?" interrupted one of the free and independent electors.

"The whole hog!" repeated Bob, striking his fist on the table with the force of a sledge-hammer;
"ay, that will I! the whole hog for the people! Now lads, don't you think that our great folks
cost too much money? Tarnation to me if I wouldn't do all they do at a third of the price.
Why, half a dozen four-horse waggons would have enough to do to carry away the hard dollars
that Johnny{D} and his 'Ministration have cost the country. Here it is, lads, in black and white."

Bob had a bundle of papers before him, which we had at first taken for a dirty pocket-handkerchief,
but which now proved to be the county newspapers--one of which gave a statement of the amount
expended by the first magistrate of the Union during his administration, reduced, for the sake
of clearness, into waggon-loads. Bob was silent, while his neighbour the secretary put on his
spectacles, and began to read this important document. He was interrupted, however, by cries
of "Know it already! Read it already! Go on, Bob!"

"Only see here now," continued Bob, taking up the paper. "Diplomatic missions! what does that
mean? What occasion had they to send any one there? Then they've appointed one General Tariff,
who's the maddest aristocrat that ever lived, and he's passed a law by which we ain't to trade
any more with the Britishers. Every stocking, every knife-handle, that comes into the States,
has to pay a duty to this infernal aristocrat. Where shall we get our flannel from now, I wonder?"

"Hear, hear!" cried a youth in a tattered red flannel shirt, to whose feelings this question
evidently went home.

"Moreover," continued Bob, "it's a drag put upon our ships, to the profit of their Yankee manyfacters.
Manyfacters, indeed! Men! free sovereign citizens! to work in manyfacters!"

"Hear, hear!" in a threatening tone from the audience.

"But that ain't all," continued Bob, nodding his head mysteriously. "No, men--hear and judge!
You, the enlightened freemen of Alabama, listen and judge for yourselves! Clever fellows, the
'Ministration and the Yankees! D'ye know what they've been a-doin'?"

"No, no. Tell us!" repeated twenty voices.

"You don't know?" said Bob, with a fine oratorical movement. "I'll tell you then. They've been
a-sendin' clothes, powder, rifles, flour, and whisky to the Creeks! Two full shiploads have
they sent. Here it is!" yelled Bob, taking another paper from his pocket, and dashing it upon
the table.{E}

A breathless silence reigned during the reading of the important paragraph, while Richards
and myself were making almost superhuman efforts to restrain our laughter. Bob continued--

"You see, men, they want to get the scalpin' plunderin' thieves back ag'in over the Mississippi
into Georgia--ay, and perhaps into Alabama too. And they're holdin' meetin's and assemblies
in their favour, and say that we owe our independence to these Creeks; and talk about their
chiefs--one Alexander the Great, and Pericles, and Plato, and suchlike names that we give our
niggers. And the cussed Redskins are fightin' against another chief whom they call Sultan,
and who lives upon Turk's island. Where shall we get our salt from now, I should like to know?"{F}

The storm that had been for some time brewing, now burst forth with a roar that shook the rafters
of the log-built tavern. Although immeasurably tickled by Bob's speech, Richards and I had
struggled successfully with our disposition to laugh. At this moment, however, a stifled giggling
was heard behind us, which immediately attracted the attention of Bob and his friends. "A spy!
a spy!" shouted they; and there was a sudden and general rush to the door, through which an
unfortunate adherent of the opposite party had sneaked in to witness their proceedings. The
poor devil was seized by a dozen hands, and dragged, neck and heel, before Bob's tribunal,
to account for his intrusion. He set up a howl of terror, and probably pain, that immediately
brought to his assistance a whole regiment of his friends, who were assembled in the adjacent
tavern. A furious fight began, from which Richards and myself hastened to escape. We made our
way into the kitchen, and thence into a court at the back of the house.

"Stop!" said a whispering voice, as we were groping about in the darkness; "you are close to
a pool that would drown an ox. I guess you won't refuse my invitation now?"

It was no less a person than Mr Isaac Shifty; and we began to consider whether it would not
really be better to put ourselves under his guidance. Indoors we could hear the fight raging
furiously. We paused to think what was best to be done. Suddenly, to our great astonishment,
the noise of the contest ceased, and was replaced by a dead silence. We hurried through the
kitchen to the field of battle, and found that the charm which had so suddenly stilled the
fury of an Alabamian election fight, was no other than the arrival of the constable and his
assistants, who had suddenly appeared in the midst of the combatants. Their presence produced
an effect which scarcely any amount of mere physical force would have been able to bring about;
and a single summons in the name of the law to keep the peace, had caused the contending parties
to separate--the intruding one retiring immediately to its own headquarters.

We passed a quiet and tolerably comfortable night, except that Bob thought proper to favour
us with his society, so that we lay three in one bed. Before break of day he got up, and went
away. Tired as we were, it was much later before we followed his example. Upon entering the
common room of the tavern, we found it empty, but bearing pretty evident marks of the recent
conflict. Chairs, benches, and tables, lay in splinters upon the floor, which was, moreover,
plentifully sprinkled with fragments of broken jugs and glasses; and even the bar itself had
not entirely escaped damage. On repairing to the stable, to pay Cæsar a visit, I found my gig,
to my no small mortification, plastered all over with election squibs--"Hurras for Bob Snags!"
and the like; while poor Cæsar's tail was shorn of every hair, as close and clean as if it
had been first lathered and then shaved. Our breakfast, however, was excellent--the weather
fine; and we set out upon our journey to Florence under decidedly more favourable auspices
than those that attended us on the preceding day.

FOOTNOTES:

{A} There is no surer way of ascertaining the State from which an American comes, than by his
thinkings and guessings. The New-Englander guesses, the Virginians and Pennsylvanians think,
the Kentuckian calculates, the man of Alabama reckons.

{B} The Mussel shoals are broad ridges of rocks, above Florence, which spread out into the
Tennessee.

{C} A corruption of Bourgogne, Burgundy wine.

{D} John Quincy Adams, then president of the United States.

{E} The Greeks, who at that time were struggling for their independence, had received various
succours from the United States. The Creeks are a well-known tribe of Indians on the frontiers
of Georgia.

{F} Turk's island is a small island from which the Western States, North and South Carolina,
Georgia, &c., get their salt.

THE EXECUTION OF MONTROSE.

The most poetical chronicler would find it impossible to render the incidents of Montrose's
brilliant career more picturesque than the reality. Among the devoted champions who, during
the wildest and most stormy period of our history, maintained the cause of Church and King,
"the Great Marquis" undoubtedly is entitled to the foremost place. Even party malevolence,
by no means extinct at the present day, has been unable to detract from the eulogy pronounced
upon him by the famous Cardinal de Retz, the friend of Condé and Turenne, when he thus summed
up his character:--"Montrose, a Scottish nobleman, head of the house of Grahame--the only man
in the world that has ever realized to me the ideas of certain heroes, whom we now discover
nowhere but in the Lives of Plutarch--has sustained in his own country the cause of the King
his master, with a greatness of soul that has not found its equal in our age."

But the success of the victorious leader and patriot, is almost thrown into the shade by the
noble magnanimity and Christian heroism of the man in the hour of defeat and death. It is impossible
now to obliterate the darkest page of Scottish history, which we owe to the vindictive cruelty
of the Covenanters--a party venal in principle, pusillanimous in action, and more than dastardly
in their revenge; but we can peruse it with the less disgust, since that very savage spirit
which planned the woful scenes connected with the final tragedy of Montrose, has served to
exhibit to the world, in all time to come, the character of the martyred nobleman in by far
its loftiest light.

There is no ingredient of fiction in the historical incidents recorded
in the following ballad. The indignities that were heaped upon Montrose
during his procession through Edinburgh, his appearance before the
Estates, and his last passage to the scaffold, as well as his undaunted
bearing, have all been spoken to by eyewitnesses of the scene. A graphic
and vivid sketch of the whole will be found in Mr Mark Napier's volume,
"The Life and Times of Montrose"--a work as chivalrous in its tone as
the Chronicles of Froissart, and abounding in original and most
interesting materials; but, in order to satisfy all scruple, the
authorities for each fact are given in the shape of notes.
    I hear the pibroch wailing
      Amidst the din of fight,
    And my old spirit wakes again
      Upon the verge of night!

    II.
    I've told thee how we swept Dundee,
      And tamed the Lindsays' pride;
    But never have I told thee yet
      How the Great Marquis died!

    III.

    IV.

    VII.

    VIII.

    The Marquis gazed a moment,
      And nothing did he say,
    But the cheek of Argyle grew ghastly pale,
      And he turn'd his eyes away.

    Had I been there with sword in hand
      And fifty Camerons by,
    That day through high Dunedin's streets
      Had peal'd the slogan cry.
    Not all their troops of trampling horse,
      Nor might of mailéd men--
    Not all the rebels in the south
      Had borne us backwards then!
    With savage glee came Warristoun{F}
      To read the murderous doom,
    And then uprose the great Montrose
      In the middle of the room.

    XI.

    XII.

    XIV.

    Ah, God! That ghastly gibbet!

    XV.

    XVI.

    He mounted up the scaffold,
      And he turn'd him to the crowd;
    But they dared not trust the people,
      So he might not speak aloud.

    XVII.

    The grim Geneva ministers
      With anxious scowl drew near,{I}
    As you have seen the ravens flock
      Around the dying deer.
    He would not deign them word nor sign,
      But alone he bent the knee;
    And veil'd his face for Christ's dear grace
      Beneath the gallows-tree.
    Then radiant and serene he rose,
      And cast his cloak away:
    For he had ta'en his latest look
      Of earth, and sun, and day.

    XVIII.

    W. E. A.

FOOTNOTES:

{A} "The contemporary historian of the Earls of Sutherland records, that (after the defeat
of Invercarron) Montrose and Kinnoull 'wandered up the river Kyle the whole ensuing night,
and the next day, and the third day also, without any food or sustenance, and at last came
within the country of Assynt. The Earl of Kinnoull, being faint for lack of meat, and not able
to travel any further, was left there among the mountains, where it was supposed he perished.
Montrose had almost famished, but that he fortuned in his misery to light upon a small cottage
in that wilderness, where he was supplied with some milk and bread.' Not even the iron frame
of Montrose could endure a prolonged existence under such circumstances. He gave himself up
to Macleod of Assynt, a former adherent, from whom he had reason to expect assistance in consideration
of that circumstance, and, indeed, from the dictates of honourable feeling and common humanity.
As the Argyle faction had sold the King, so this Highlander rendered his own name infamous
by selling the hero to the Covenanters, for which 'duty to the public' he was rewarded with
four hundred bolls of meal."--NAPIER'S Life of Montrose.

{B} "Friday, 17th May.--Act ordaining James Grahame to be brought from the Watergate on a cart,
bareheaded, the hangman in his livery, covered, riding on the horse that draws the cart--the
prisoner to be bound to the cart with a rope--to the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, and from thence
to be brought to the Parliament House, and there, in the place of delinquents, on his knees,
to receive his sentence--viz., to be hanged on a gibbet at the Cross of Edinburgh, with his
book and declaration tied on a rope about his neck, and there to hang for the space of three
hours until he be dead; and thereafter to be cut down by the hangman, his head, hands, and
legs to be cut off, and distributed as follows--viz., His head to be affixed on an iron pin,
and set on the pinnacle of the west gavel of the new prison of Edinburgh; one hand to be set
on the port of Perth, the other on the port of Stirling; one leg and foot on the port of Aberdeen,
the other on the port of Glasgow. If at his death penitent, and relaxed from excommunication,
then the trunk of his body to be interred, by pioneers, in the Greyfriars; otherwise, to be
interred in the Boroughmuir, by the hangman's men, under the gallows."--BALFOUR'S Notes of
Parliament.

It is needless to remark that this inhuman sentence was executed to the letter. In order that
the exposure might be more complete, the cart was constructed with a high chair in the centre,
having holes behind, through which the ropes that fastened him were drawn. The author of the
Wigton Papers, recently published by the Maitland Club, says, "the reason of his being tied
to the cart was in hope that the people would have stoned him, and that he might not be able
by his hands to save his face." His hat was then pulled off by the hangman, and the procession
commenced.

{C} "In all the way, there appeared in him such majesty, courage, modesty--and even somewhat
more than natural--that those common women who had lost their husbands and children in his
wars, and who were hired to stone him, were upon the sight of him so astonished and moved,
that their intended curses turned into tears and prayers; so that next day all the ministers
preached against them for not stoning and reviling him."--Wigton Papers.

{D} "It is remarkable, that of the many thousand beholders, the Lady Jean Gordon, Countess
of Haddington, did (alone) publicly insult and laugh at him; which being perceived by a gentleman
in the street, he cried up to her, that it became her better to sit upon the cart for her adulteries."--Wigton
Papers. This infamous woman was the third daughter of Huntly, and the niece of Argyle. It will
hardly be credited that she was the sister of that gallant Lord Gordon, who fell fighting by
the side of Montrose, only five years before, at the battle of Aldford!

{E} "The Lord Lorn and his new lady were also sitting on a balcony, joyful spectators; and
the cart being stopt when it came before the lodging where the Chancellor, Argyle, and Warristoun
sat--that they might have time to insult--he, suspecting the business, turned his face towards
them, whereupon they presently crept in at the windows: which being perceived by an Englishman,
he cried up, it was no wonder they started aside at his look, for they durst not look him in
the face these seven years bygone."--Wigton Papers.

{F} Archibald Johnston of Warristoun. This man, who was the inveterate enemy of Montrose, and
who carried the most selfish spirit into every intrigue of his party, received the punishment
of his treasons about eleven years afterwards. It may be instructive to learn how he met his
doom. The following extract is from the MSS. of Sir George Mackenzie:--"The Chancellor and
others waited to examine him; he fell upon his face, roaring, and with tears entreated they
would pity a poor creature who had forgot all that was in the Bible. This moved all the spectators
with a deep melancholy; and the Chancellor, reflecting upon the man's great parts, former esteem,
and the great share he had in all the late revolutions, could not deny some tears to the frailty
of silly mankind. At his examination, he pretended he had lost so much blood by the unskilfulness
of his chirurgeons, that he lost his memory with his blood; and I really believe that his courage
had been drawn out with it. Within a few days he was brought before the parliament, where he
discovered nothing but much weakness, running up and down upon his knees, begging mercy; but
the parliament ordained his former sentence to be put to execution, and accordingly he was
executed at the cross of Edinburgh."

{G} "He said he was much beholden to the parliament for the honour they put on him; 'for,'
says he, 'I think it a greater honour to have my head standing on the port of this town, for
this quarrel, than to have my picture in the king's bedchamber. I am beholden to you, that,
lest my loyalty should be forgotten, ye have appointed five of your most eminent towns to bear
witness of it to posterity.'"--Wigton Papers.

{H} "In his downgoing from the Tolbooth to the place of execution, he was very richly clad
in fine scarlet, laid over with rich silver lace, his hat in his hand, his bands and cuffs
exceeding rich, his delicate white gloves on his hands, his stockings of incarnate silk, and
his shoes with their ribands on his feet; and sarks provided for him with pearling about, above
ten pund the elne. All these were provided for him by his friends, and a pretty cassock put
on upon him, upon the scaffold, wherein he was hanged. To be short, nothing was here deficient
to honour his poor carcase, more beseeming a bridegroom than a criminal going to the gallows."--NICHOLL'S
Diary.

{I} The Presbyterian ministers beset Montrose both in prison and on the scaffold. The following
extracts are from the diary of the Rev. Robert Traill, one of the persons who were appointed
by the commission of the kirk "to deal with him:"--"By a warrant from the kirk, we staid a
while with him about his soul's condition. But we found him continuing in his old pride, and
taking very ill what was spoken to him, saying, 'I pray you, gentlemen, let me die in peace.'
It was answered, that he might die in true peace, being reconciled to the Lord and to his kirk."--"We
returned to the commission, and did show unto them what had passed amongst us. They, seeing
that for the present he was not desiring relaxation from his censure of excommunication, did
appoint Mr Mungo Law and me to attend on the morrow on the scaffold, at the time of his execution,
that, in case he should desire to be relaxed from his excommunication, we should be allowed
to give it unto him in the name of the kirk, and to pray with him, and for him, that what is
loosed in earth might be loosed in heaven." But this pious intention, which may appear somewhat
strange to the modern Calvinist, when the prevailing theories of the kirk regarding the efficacy
of absolution are considered, was not destined to be fulfilled. Mr Traill goes on to say, "But
he did not at all desire to be relaxed from his excommunication in the name of the kirk, yea,
did not look towards that place on the scaffold where we stood; only he drew apart some of
the magistrates, and spake a while with them, and then went up the ladder, in his red scarlet
cassock, in a very stately manner."

{J} "He was very earnest that he might have the liberty to keep on his hat; it was denied:
he requested he might have the privilege to keep his cloak about him--neither could that be
granted. Then, with a most undaunted courage, he went up to the top of that prodigious gibbet."--"The
whole people gave a general groan; and it was very observable, that even those who at his first
appearance had bitterly inveighed against him, could not now abstain from tears."--Montrose
Redivivus.

THE WITCHFINDER.

PART I.

It was towards the close of an autumnal evening, in the commencement of the sixteenth century,
that a crowd of human beings was dispersing from the old market-place of Hammelburg, an ancient
and, at that time, considerable town of Franconia, after witnessing the performance of a hideous
and living tragedy. The Ober-Amtmann, or governor of the town, who had presided over the awful
occasion, had left, attended by his schreibers, or secretaries, the small balustraded terrace
which advanced out before the elevated entrance of the old Gothic town-hall. The town-guard
were receding in various directions, warning the crowd to seek their homes, and sometimes aiding
with a gentle admonition of their pike-heads those who lingered, as, slowly retreating, they
moved down the different narrow streets that led from the central market-place, like streams
flowing off in different channels after an inundation. Window after window was closing in the
quaintly-carved and strangely-decorated gables of the houses; and many a small casement had
been pulled to, over sundry withered old faces, that, peering from the dark and narrow aperture,
and illumined by the glaring light that had filled the market-place, had resembled some darkly-traced
picture placed against the opening. In the middle of the square still smoked, in a heavy volume
of cloud, the last gleaming ashes of a lately blazing pile, still filling the air with a noisome
stench. The night was closing darkly in, and one human being alone seemed yet to linger in
the market-place.

It would have been difficult, indeed, to discover that the dark object just discernible upon
the edge of the blackened mass of smoking cinders really was a human being, so shapeless was
the form, so strangely was it crouched down before the spot where the pile had been consumed.
From time to time only an upward-flung movement of two thin arms, as if in the violent emotion
of earnest prayer or deprecation, showed that this object was a living thing; until, when the
moon rose from behind the old town-hall, disengaging itself, ever and anon, from among the
heavy clouds of a gathering storm, its light fell full upon this indistinct apparition, and
revealed the form of a man, curiously bent together in a half-squatting, half-kneeling position.
His head was bare. His long tangled black locks hung around a swarthy face, young still in
years, but worn and withered, and prematurely aged by sickness, sorrow, or violence of passion--perhaps
by the constant operation of all three. At this moment it was ghastly pale, and bore the marks
of the faintness and exhaustion attendant upon a reaction after intense excitement. The dress
of this creature was not the usual costume of the lower classes, and consisted almost entirely
of a ragged and soiled garment of coarse brown linen, made somewhat in the shape of a modern
blouse, and bound round his waist by a coarse leathern band. Around his neck hung a square
bag, or satchel, which at once designated his calling to be that of a common beggar, privileged
by the religious authorities of the place. The stoop of his broad shoulders, between which
the head was deeply sunk, told a tale of long sickness, which had broken a frame originally
bold and strong, and given a peculiarly ill-favoured appearance to a form naturally well built;
and when he arose from his squatting posture, the bent and withered appearance of his crooked
legs, which no longer possessed sufficient strength to support the bulkier frame above, gave
painful evidence that the wretched man had suffered cruelly from those common scourges of his
class at that period--rheumatism and ague. Clasped between his hands was a rosary of wood;
and, as he rose, he pressed it to his lips, and then deposited it in the upper part of his garment.

"No, no!" exclaimed the cripple aloud, when he had staggered to his feet. "No, it is not vengeance--it
is not, God knows; although the malevolence of those hideous and accursed hags, those lemans
of Satan"--and he spat upon the ground--"have made me the wretched outcast of humanity I am.
The blood of the foul one has been shed for His glory only, and that of the blessed Virgin,
to the destruction of the arch-enemy of mankind and his delusions!"

"Thou knowest it is so," he added, again clutching forth the rosary from his bosom, which,
after gazing upon a rude personification of the Virgin, stamped upon a tiny plate of copper
at the end of the string of beads, and devoutly making the sign of the cross, he returned to
its usual depository.

"I have cried against the handmaid of Beelzebub--uttering cry for cry as she shrieked out her
wretched soul. I have prayed earnestly and long, and I am athirst," continued the cripple,
as he dragged his distorted limbs with difficulty over the rough stones towards a large covered
well, which occupied the lower part of the market-place.

As the beggar approached the parapet of the well, to drink from one of the buckets which reposed
upon its edge, he became first aware of the presence of another human being. Half-concealed
behind one of the twisted columns that supported the Gothic pavilion above, sat upon the parapet
a female figure, dressed in a black garb of such a form and nature, that, without being the
exact costume of any known religious order, it bore a monastic character. Her face, as she
sat with her head bent down over her clasped hands, in an attitude of mournful humiliation,
was fully concealed by a black hood. But when, upon the approach of the beggar, she started
up hastily, as if impelled by feelings of horror and disgust, the moon shone full upon her,
and revealed the features of a woman of an advanced period of life, who formerly might have
possessed much beauty, although now so washed out by tears, and furrowed by sorrow, that the
whole character of her face was changed. Her years, too, were probably very much fewer than
her appearance denoted, for the signs of age upon her face bore less the marks of time than
of mental suffering. The symptoms of aversion which her manner displayed upon the beggar's
approach, although instinctive and involuntary, and almost immediately restrained, had not
escaped his eye. His features expressed the bitter resentment of his heart at this insult,
and worked with ill-repressed feelings of anger and spite.

"Ha! Mother Magdalena--it is thou! Why flinchest thou at my approach? Hast thou cause to fear
me, then?" exclaimed the cripple with a sneer, as he drew nearer.

The female thus addressed shuddered at the sound of his voice; and, hastily pulling her dark
hood more closely over her face, endeavoured to pass on without reply; but the beggar caught
her by the arm.

"Not so fast, beldam!" he cried. "I would have a word with thee. Dost thou not know me?"

"Not know thee!" exclaimed the dark female. "Who in this wretched town does not know Schwartzer
Claus, the witchfinder? What wouldst thou with me? Let me go!"

"Why dost thou tremble, then, and turn away thy head?" continued the cripple. "Why does Black
Claus, the witchfinder--since such thou callest me--make thee shudder thus in every limb? The
innocent have no cause to fear."

"Thou askest me why I shudder?" said Magdalena in an excited tone, forgetting in her agitation
her purpose of self-control. "Thou hast forced me to speak, and I will tell thee. Is not thy
hand yet reeking with the bloody ashes of thy last victim? Has not a seventh unhappy woman
suffered this very day a cruel death at the stake upon thy hideous denunciation; and thou askest
me why I shudder?"

"Beware, woman--beware!" cried the witchfinder, lifting up his long right arm with a gesture
of menace. "Those who defend the evil-doer, and malign the just and heaven-directed accuser,
are not far from being arraigned as accomplices themselves!"

"What! thou seekest already another innocent sacrifice, wretched man!" continued the female,
tearing away her arm, which the beggar still held clenched in his left hand. "Thou art not
sated with the innocent blood thy false witness has this day shed?"

"It is a lie!--it is a damning lie!" screamed the cripple, foaming with passion. "I have borne
no false witness! Besides, did not she avow her deeds of darkness? did she not confess her
complicity with the spirits of hell, and her harlotries with the arch-deceiver of mankind?"

"Ay! when, tortured in mind and body, her poor weak old head gave way, and she unconsciously
affirmed all that her torturers had for hours past been pressing upon her wavering understanding.
Ye had driven her mad, poor wretch!"

"'Tis false again!--'tis false!" repeated the witchfinder. "The truth spoke out of her at last,
when her treacherous paramour, the demon, had deserted her. God's glory and that of the holy
church, for which I work, had triumphed over the powers of darkness."

"Thou serve the holy church! Hear not the blasphemy, O Lord!" cried the excited woman, raising
up her hands to heaven. "Thou, miserable wretch! who, for the favour of the Amtmann or the
priest, for the pittance bestowed on thee in reward of thy discovery of the supposed foul practices
of witchery and magic, art ever ready to sell the innocent blood of the aged, helpless, and
infirm!"

"For the lucre of gain!" screamed the cripple, but in a tone as much of despair at this accusation
as of wrath. "For the lucre of gain! No--no; as God is my judge, it is not! My motives are
pure; God and the Holy Virgin know they are! It is not even a spirit of revenge that instigates
me. No--no! it cannot be; it is not! If the words of my mouth have condemned and killed, it
is because my voice was uplifted in the cause of religion, and to the confusion of the prince
of evil!" But as he spoke, the beggar covered his face with his hands, with a shudder, as though
there passed in his soul a struggle with himself--a doubt of his own real motives.

Magdalena was about to quit in haste her dangerous companion, when a sentiment of pity at the
sight of the cripple's evident emotion seemed to mingle strangely with her disgust and aversion
to the witchfinder. It was even with an uncontrollable feeling of interest that she stopped
for a moment to look upon the wretched man.

After a pause, the beggar removed his hands from his face, and uttering in a low tone the words,
"I thirst," staggered to the edge of the well, and seized the bucket within his hands. He bent
over it but for a moment to drink, and could scarcely have swallowed many mouthfuls, before,
flinging back the bucket into the well, he started up, and spat the water from his mouth.

"Horror!" he said, with a look of mingled terror and insanity--"it tastes of blood!"

"It is thy own conscience, poor man, that troubles the taste of the fresh element," said Magdalena
solemnly; "the water is pure and sweet!"

"Thou hast done this, old hag!" cried the witchfinder wildly; unheeding her remark. "Thou hast
corrupted the waters at the source. Why did I find thee sitting here, cowering over the surface
of the well, if it were not to cast malefick spells upon the water, and turn it into poison--in
order to give ills, and ails, and blains, and aches, and pains, and sickness, and death to
thy fellow-creatures? Ha! ha! I have long thought it. Thou also art one of the accursed ones!"

"Thou ravest, miserable wretch!" replied the female; "thou knowest not what thou utterest.
God forgive thee, cripple, thy wicked thought, and change thy perverted mind!"

She was again about to turn away, and leave her angry questioner, when, fearing the result
of the evil feeling now fully excited in the witchfinder's mind, she again paused to excuse
herself in the eyes of the dangerous man, and added--

"Thou canst not mean what thou sayest, Claus; I sat by the well but to cool my heated brow
in the night-air, and taste the breath of heaven; for my mind was saddened, and my head whirled,
with the horrors that this day has witnessed."

But her words were but oil upon the flame, and only served to augment the wild infatuation
of the witchfinder.

"Ah! thy mind was saddened! Thou hadst pity for that vile hag of hell! Was she thy comrade?
Perchance thou hadst fear for thyself? Thou thought'st thy own time might come? Thy own time
will come, old Magdalena. My eye is upon thee and thy dark practices; it has been upon thee
since thou camest, unknown and unacknowledged, to this place, none could tell when, and whence,
and how. Ay, my eye is upon thee, and--beware!"

Willingly would the woman now have shrunk away before the maddened witchfinder's objurgation;
but the wild accusation thus thundered against her froze her with terror, and riveted her to
the spot.

"I have marked thee well," continued the frantic man, "and I have seen thee pause upon the
threshold of the holy house of God, and kneel in mockery upon the steps before it: but thou
hast never dared to enter it. Thou knewest well that the devil thou servest would have torn
thee in pieces hadst thou done it. Ha! do I catch thee there?" he continued, as at these words
the woman buried her face between her hands.

"Thou canst not deny it!" shouted the witchfinder with an air of triumph.

"God best judges the motives of the heart," murmured Magdalena.

"I will tell thee more, vile hag, and thou shalt hear it face to face," pursued the cripple,
seizing the poor woman's arms with his long bony fingers, and dragging her hands from before
her face, in spite of her efforts at resistance. "Thou watchest at street corners and in doorways,
on the bridge or on the causeway, to see fair Fraulein Bertha, the Ober-Amtmann's daughter,
ride past upon her ambling jennet, or mount the church-steps, her missal in her hand. Thou
watchest her to cast thy spells upon her. Thou hatest her for her youth and beauty and spotless
purity, like all thy wretched tribe, whom the sight of innocence and brightness sickens to
the heart's core. Thou wouldst fascinate her with thy eye of evil and thy deadly incantations."

The moon, the light of which still struggled faintly through the fast-accumulating clouds,
shone for a moment upon the face of old Magdalena, as the cripple pronounced these words. Her
features were more deadly pale than usual, and convulsed with an excess of agitation at this
mention of Bertha's name, which she evidently struggled to control in vain.

"Ah! I have thee there again!" screamed Claus in triumph a second time. "Already have I seen
her cheek grow pale, her head bow down like a blighted flower, her walk become weary with faintness.
Hast thou already been at thy filthy machinations? But Black Claus, the witchfinder, is there
to wrestle with the powers of evil. And hear me! That fair sweet girl is the only comfort of
my wretched life. My soul grows calm and soothed when I look upon that lovely face. A ray of
sunshine gleams upon the darkness of my path when her smile beams upon me. My heart leaps within
me for joy when her small white hand drops an offering into my beggar's bowl. She is my only
life, my only joy, and my guardian angel. And couldst thou harm her, woman, no torment should
be too horrible for thee, body and soul. The chains of the stake still lie upon the market-place--the
ashes of yon pile still reek with heat; and the pile shall rise again, the chains shall bind
once more. Wretched hag! I bid thee again beware!"

As with one hand the raving witchfinder pointed to the spot where one unhappy woman had already
perished that day, a victim to the superstition of the times, Magdalena, who, during his praise
of the fair girl, had again looked at him with awakened interest, disengaged herself from the
other. "God's will be done!" she said with humility. "I am prepared for all. But thou, unhappy
man!" she continued, "beware in turn, lest, before thou hast time to repent thee of the hardness
and cruelty of thy heart, His judgement fall on thee, and his justice punish thee."

She spoke with hand upraised to heaven; and then, pulling her hood over her face, hurried from
the market-place.

The witchfinder gazed after her, fixed to the spot, and for a moment awe-struck by her words.
As he still stood struggling with his various passions, the storm, which had been gathering
ever since sunset, began to burst over his head. The rain came down in torrents.

"Ah! was it that?" screamed the beggar, with a fit of wild laughter. "The miserable old beldam!
she stretched out her finger to the sky, and it was to bring down these waterspouts upon my
head. Curses on the foul malicious fiend!" And he spat upon the ground, as if to exorcise the
evil spirit.

"But I must find shelter," he murmured. "Already pains rack my limbs; my bones ache; a shudder
runs through my frame! The old hag has worked her spell upon me. Apage, Sathanas! Anathema!"

Speaking thus, the wretched man shuffled along as fast as the crippled state of his limbs,
and the acute pains of rheumatism, which the damp night-air had again brought upon him, would
allow him to proceed. He staggered to the shelter of a doorway, which was placed under the
advancing terrace of the town-hall, and between two staircases which descended on either side
on to the market-place. The protruding vault of the Gothic archway afforded him some refuge
from the storm, which now burst down with increased violence. But the excited witchfinder's
brain seemed to wander, as he caught an indistinct vision of the gaping jaws of the dragons
and other grotesque monsters, which protruded as waterspouts from the roofs of the surrounding
houses, and now disgorged torrents of rain.

"Spit, spit, ye devils all!" he shouted aloud. "Ye cannot reach me here. Ha! ha! rage, storm,
spew forth your venom, do the bidding of your mistress--I defy you!" And as the wind swept
round the corners of the building, and spattered some of the water of the gushing cataracts
in his face, he cried, "Avaunt!" as if speaking to a living thing, and, clinging to the bars
of an aperture in the upper part of the door, turned away his face.

As he thus came to look upon the strongly-barred opening in the door, the current of his ideas
changed. Within was the small and wretched prison of the town, which just occupied the space
of the terrace above--a miserable hole.

"There she lay this morning," he murmured, looking into the interior, which was now in utter
darkness, and quite empty--"there she lay, old Martha Dietz, and called in vain upon the demon
who deserted her. There have lain all the foul hags who tortured my poor aching limbs. There
shall she lie also, the scoffer and reviler, the worker of evil. The witchfinder will be revenged.
Revenge! no, no! He will do the work of the holy church. Who shall say the contrary? Not thou,
old Martha--nor thou--nor thou. If ye say so, ye lie in death, as ye have lied in life. Ay!
glare upon me with your lack-lustre eyes. Ye are powerless now, though ye are there, and make
mouths at me. One--two--three--God stand by me! There they are--all seven!"

With a wild scream of horror, the cripple covered his eyes with his hands, and rushed forth
into the tempest.

Situated in the picturesque and fertile valley of the Saale, the town of Hammelburg stands
upon a gentle declivity, commanding one of the numerous windings of the river, and sloping
downwards to its banks. A part of the old walls of the town is thus bathed by the waters of
the stream, which, calm and peaceful in the summer months, become tumultuous, and even dangerous,
during rainy weather, or after the melting of the snows. From the ancient gateway of the town
on the river side, a triple bridge of great length and many arches, which, in the dry season,
seems to occupy a most unnecessary space across the narrower waters, but which, at other times,
scarce suffices to span the extent of the invading inundation, affords a communication with
the high-road.

At the commencement of the sixteenth century, this bridge was only constructed of wood, and
although put together with rude strength, ill-sufficed to resist the force of the torrents,
and had been repeatedly swept before them.

Not far from the town gateway that commanded this bridge, stood a huge mansion, constructed
as a palace for the Prince Bishops of Fulda, the sovereign rulers of the district; although,
at the period in question, it had been ceded to the Ober-Amtmann, a near relation of the reigning
bishop, as his official dwelling. On the side of this ancient palace furthest removed from
the town gate, ran, along the river's banks, its spacious gardens, abutting at their extremity
upon the premises of an extensive Benedictine monastery, from which they were only separated
by a narrow lane, that led from the town to the river. At the very angle of this lane, where
it opened by a small water-gate upon a narrow towing-path, skirting alike the town-walls and
the banks of the stream, there stood a low building attached to the monastery, the upper story
of which thus overlooked the old gardens of the palace on the one hand, and, on the other,
the river banks.

At one of the windows of this humble dwelling, that which overlooked the palace gardens, stood
a young man, intently gazing through its small octagon panes. Two or three times he turned
away with a heavy sigh, as if wearied with long and vain watching, and as often returned again
to his previous occupation. At length the opening of the door of the room startled him from
his position; and as if ashamed of being caught in the act of looking out, he hurried to a
table in the middle of the room, and flung himself into an old chair.

The various objects with which the table was covered, as well as those which filled and littered
the room in all directions, clearly designated the young man's employment to be that of a sculptor
and colourer of images for the ornament of churches, as well as an illuminator of missals and
manuscripts--an occupation at that time still pursued, although gradually falling into disuse
since the invention of printing. Scattered about upon the table were several old parchment
manuscripts, which had served as models for the artist's use, or had been confided to his hands
to clean. Old illuminated missals, some of the gorgeous illustrations of which were open, as
if lately retouched by the hand of the young painter, lay here and there. At the further end
of the table stood a small figure of a Virgin and Child, delicately and exquisitely carved,
and painted with the richest colours. The group was bright with its fresh finish, and evidently
had not long been completed by the hand of the artist. Upon an elevated bench or dresser were
littered the tools of the sculptor and wood-carver, with a few unfinished trials of small saintly
figures; and around the room were fragments of wooden images of saints, some discoloured, some
broken, a few in tolerable preservation, which were either destined to be restored and repainted,
or had served as studies for the artist. Upon the walls hung a few pictures of female saints,
bedecked with garlands of flowers, which showed them to be objects of devotion and respect
in the eyes of the possessor. Among all this confusion, space was scarcely left, in the small
chamber of the artist, for the pallet-bed and cumbrous press that formed his only furniture.

Immediately before the chair into which the young man so hastily flung himself, lay a rich
missal, upon the adornment of which he had been employed, before other thoughts and feelings
had sent him to the window; and when he again resumed his work, it was upon the face of a fair
saint, which formed the headpiece of a chapter, peering out from among the various graceful
arabesques that twined in the brightest colours along the margin of the leaf.

In truth, the face of the young artist was almost as fair as that of the bright being he was
engaged in painting. His light brown hair was parted in the middle, over a high white forehead,
and fell in faintly waving curls almost to his neck, forming a frame to the soft oval face,
to which his violet-blue melancholy-looking eyes, his calm, finely-chiselled features, and
the serious repose of his imaginative mouth, imparted an air of gentleness and thoughtfulness
combined. His dark, sober-coloured, simple dress, although somewhat too severe to suit his
youthful figure, accorded well with the character of his physiognomy. His falling collar displayed
a full white throat, which might have served as a model for a statue of Antinous, had it not
borne more the stamp of genius in its proportions than of physical voluptuousness. The hands,
which now hastily resumed their neglected occupation, had all the fairness and well-moulded
contour of a woman's, without that delicacy of size which would have stamped them as effeminate.
Had he been aware of his own beauty, he might have copied his own graceful form for a personification
of the lily-bearing angel in a group of the Annunciation.

The person who had startled him from the window, by opening the door of his room, was an aged-looking
woman, in a plain dress of coarse black serge. She bore in her hands a coarse brown porringer
filled with steaming viands, a lump of dark homely bread, and a white cloth.

"Ah! my good Magdalena, art thou there?" said the young artist, raising his head with an almost
unconscious affectation of surprise, as though unexpectedly disturbed at his work.

"You forget all hours, and all human wants, in your zeal for your beautiful art, Master Gottlob,"
said the woman. "I bring you your noon-day repast, which you would never have called for, had
I allowed it to stand by even until sundown. But I have ventured to transgress your orders.
You must be faint with long fasting;" and the old woman made a movement as if to place the
food upon the table before the artist.

"Thanks, good Magdalena! thanks!" said the young man, looking at her with that sweet smile,
and tender expression of his mild blue eyes, which had procured him, among all who knew him,
the constant designation of "Gentle Gottlob;" but at the same time repelling the porringer.
"Not here. Place the food elsewhere. I will eat anon. I am not hungry now; and I must not leave
my work. I have promised it to his noble reverence the prior, for the eve of the fête of St
Ursula, and to-morrow is the very day. There is still much to do. It seems as if I could never
give sufficient finish to this face, or impart to it, with my dull colours and rebellious pencil,
that look of heavenly brightness that ought to dwell upon it. And yet, alas! I would it never
could be finished! It will break my heart to part with it--although I love not my own work,
nor deem it excellent. But still I cherish it--all imperfect as it is--I know not why; and
when to-morrow comes, and I must give it up into his reverence's hands, it seems that my life
and spirit would depart from me with its loss, and that all around me would be dark and joyless."

After placing the porringer and bread upon a spare corner of the sculptor's working bench,
Magdalena moved gently behind the young man's chair, and having asked respectfully his pardon,
looked over his shoulder. At the sight of the fair face upon which the young artist was bestowing
so much care, her looks betrayed feelings of surprise, mingled with much emotion. Once or twice
she passed her hand over her eyes, as if doubting the reality of what she saw. It was some
time before she could sufficiently master her agitation to speak; and when at last she spoke,
after a long-drawn sigh, it was with a tone which still betrayed, in spite of her efforts,
the interest inspired in her by the painter's work of art.

"It is indeed a fine performance, and right bravely limned," she said; "and in truth the countenance
you have given to yonder saint, with the pale glory, is one of exquisite beauty. I wonder not
that you should be grieved to look upon so sweet a face no more; although, methinks, I know
a face as fair, to which it bears a marvellous resemblance."

"What meanest thou, Magdalena?" said the young artist, bending his head still lower over his
work. "Whom dost thou know who could bear a likeness to this creation of my own imagination?"

"Of your own memory, Master Gottlob! you should have said," pursued Magdalena. "Surely--or
my eyes deceive themselves most strangely--although in that sweet face they were not easily
deceived; surely the face is that of"----

The old woman again paused, as if to suppress her emotion.

"Of whom?" enquired Gottlob in a low tone, also in much agitation.

"Of the fair Fraulein Bertha, the noble Ober-Amtmann's daughter."

"You think so, Magdalena?" replied the young man. "Perhaps it maybe a slight shade of a resemblance,
caught unconsciously"----

"It is she herself," exclaimed Magdalena. "It is the same angelic smile--the same beam of innocent
brightness athwart her brow! It is she!"

"Perhaps thou art right," stammered Gottlob, still in much confusion, but evidently well pleased
with the species of praise thus bestowed upon his performance. "There is, in truth, more resemblance
to the Fraulein Bertha than I had thought."

Magdalena seemed for a minute lost in her reflection, as if a new and painful idea had struck
her; and after giving a long and anxious look at the window, from which the young artist had
drawn back upon her entrance, she pressed her hand heavily to her heart, as if to support her
in a sudden resolution, and, advancing to the artist's side, said in an earnest tone, "Young
man! thou lovest her!"

"Magdalena! thou knowest not what thou sayest," cried Gottlob, more harshly than as the wont
of his gentle nature.

"Oh! pardon me if I have offended. Condemn me not!" said the excited woman. "But I do entreat
you, tell me! Tell me your secret as you would confide it to a mother--to your own mother,
Gottlob. It is the purest interest for you--for her--that guides me! I swear it to you! Oh!
tell me--is it not so? You love that fair and gentle girl!"

The young man looked at his strange interrogator with some astonishment at her evident agitation.
The tears were swelling in her eyes. But without pausing to question the reasons of her emotion--so
absorbed is love in its own self--he rose, and took the old woman's hand.

"Yes! I will speak; my heart has long been overcharged with its own secret, even to bursting,"
he said; "and it throbs to unburden itself into some sympathizing heart! And why not thine,
good Magdalena? Ever since fate has brought us so strangely together, thou hast been like a
mother to me!"

"Do not I owe you all?" interrupted the old woman; "my life--my daily bread--a shelter for
my old limbs in the cell below?"

"Alas! I have but little to give, poor Magdalena!" said the young man kindly.

"And that little thou hast shared with me as a son," continued Magdalena bending her head over
his hand as if to kiss it.

"Yes, thou shalt know all," pursued Gottlob; "for it would seem as though the destiny that
threw thee in my way were linked with hers. Her image it was that led me to the spot where
first I saw thee. It was the last day of the Carnival, at the beginning of this year, and there
was a fête at the palace of the Ober-Amtmann. I had long gazed with adoration upon that angelic
face, and treasured it in my heart. I already worshipped yon saintly portraits, because in
one--God forgive me the profane thought!--I had found a faint forth-showing of the beam of
her bright eye; in another, the gentle, dimpled smile of her sweet mouth; in a third, her pure
and saint-like brow. It was not for such as I, a poor artist, to be invited to the noble Amtmann's
fête; but I thought that, through the windows in the illuminated halls, I might perchance trace
her passing shadow. I fancied that, by some unforeseen accident, she might come forth upon
the terrace, overhanging the river's banks--a foolish fancy, for the night was wintry and cold.
I hoped to see her, no matter how; and I wandered out of the town--for its gates were open
for that holiday--to look upon the lighted windows of the palace from the opposite side of
the stream. The snow was on the ground. My mantle scarcely preserved me from the bitter cold.
But I felt it not. It was only when a groan sounded near me, that I thought on the sufferings
of others in such a night. I looked around me; and there, not far from me, on the snow, before
the very windows of the palace, where within was music and dancing, and feasting and mirth,
lay thy form, poor Magdalena! Feeble, helpless, stiff with cold, thou appearedst to me in the
last agonies of death."

"Yes; I had laid me down to die, in sorrow and despair. It is too true," sobbed the old woman,
in a voice choked with tears. "But your hand raised me up--your arms warmed me into life--your
voice encouraged me, and gave me force. You brought me to your home, fostered me, and nursed
me--me, an unknown outcast, whose very history you did not even seek to know--whose silence
and secrecy you respected. Your kindness saved me from despair, and gave me hope; and I lived
on, in order to pay, were it possible, my debt of gratitude to my preserver."

"Good Magdalena," said the young man soothingly, taking her withered hands between his own,
"I did but the duty of a Christian man."

"And you love her, then?" resumed Magdalena, recalling her young preserver to his promised
confidence.

"Love her!" exclaimed Gottlob with an impassioned fervour, which gave his gentle face a look
of inspiration. "Love her! She is my vision by day--my dream by night. When I read, it is her
voice that seems to speak to me from the Minnesinger's poesy. When I paint, it is her form
that grows under my pencil. When I pray, it is her seraphic smile that seems to beam upon me
down from heaven. I wander forth: it is to meet her in her walks. I kneel in the church: it
is to breathe the same air as she!" At these words, Magdalena covered her face, and uttered
a suppressed groan. "I rise from my labour, which of old was a labour of love to me, and now
is oft an irksome task: it is to watch for her coming forth into the garden. I have neither
rest by day nor by night. Where there was repose in my heart, there is now eternal fever."

"And she?" said Magdalena with a low tone of anxiety, as if fearful of the answer she might
receive. "Does she know--does she return your love?"

"How should she deign to remark a worm like me?" was the young artist's answer. "How should
I dare to breathe my affection in her ear, were it even possible for me to approach her? And
yet she looks upon me kindly," continued the young lover, encouraging himself in vague hopes,
at the same time that he condemned their presumption. "When I doff my cap to the noble Amtmann's
daughter, as she ambles forth by her proud father's side, she will answer with so sweet a smile,
and greet me with a wave of her riding-switch--with what a grace!--and then grow red thereby,
and then grow pale. When I offer her the holy water as she passes from the church, she will
cast down her trembling eyelids, and yet will see withal who offers it; and when I stand at
yon window, as she rambles in the garden, she will pluck flower after flower, as though she
knew not why; then fling them all aside, then pick them up with care; then disappear as if
she had gone back, and yet come forth again."

Magdalena's brow grew thoughtful and anxious as Gottlob proceeded in his enumeration of these
symptoms. Her bosom heaved painfully, her hands were clenched together.

"Poor child! should it be so!" she murmured, casting her eyes upon the ground; and then, raising
them again to Gottlob's face, into which she looked with scrutinizing eagerness, she said aloud--"And
yet you do not think she loves you?"

"She love me!" cried the young man. "Such a dream of bliss were madness! Can I forget the immeasurable
gulf that separates the noble daughter of the high-placed Amtmann from the poor and humble
artist--the dependent of a cloister? No, Magdalena. I must die as I have lived, the poor unloved
and uncared-for orphan--die without a sigh of pity, without a tear of sorrow from her eye."

"Have you, then, no friends, poor youth?" said Magdalena.

"None. Yes! I am ungrateful. I have one--a kind protector; but he is far removed, and I have
seen him seldom."

"The Prince Bishop of Fulda!" repeated the old woman, with some degree of agitation. "Perhaps--yet
it is a wild and foolish thought--perhaps all hope is not shut out to you."

"What sayest thou, then, old Magdalena?" said the youth. "Hope were but torture were it vain;
and so it must be"----

"Yes. I was wrong. Heed not my words! But know you not that your patron, the bishop, is close
at hand? Already I have heard that he arrived this morning at his castle of Saaleck, at half
a league's distance from the town; and he will probably shortly enter Hammelburg, as is his wont."

"These are glad tidings!" said Gottlob, his eyes beaming with joy. "I will at once to Saaleck,
and, if the prince admit me to his presence, throw myself at his feet, assure him of all my
gratitude for the past, and offer him my poor service for the future."

With these words the young man hurried to his cumbrous chest, and pulling out a short cloak,
flung it around him. A small cap of black velvet, of the cut of the time, which showed off
to advantage the beauty of his youthful face, was hastily thrown upon his head. He was about
to quit the chamber, when Magdalena caught him by the arm.

"Thy repast, Master Gottlob."

"Have I time to think of that?" said the eager youth, swallowing, however, in haste a few mouthfuls
of the broth, to satisfy the old woman's look of supplication.

"And when you mount or descend the mountain-path that leads to the castle on its brow," said
the old woman, during Gottlob's hasty meal, "if you can still have a thought for poor old Magdalena,
she begs you enter the chapel on the mountain-side, which is esteemed so holy that it is permitted
to be a sanctuary of refuge to the criminal, and say a short prayer for her soul's weal."

"Can those so good and kind as thou, Magdalena, need the prayers of such as I?" said the young man.

"The fervent supplications of the young and pure at heart are always acceptable," replied Magdalena
evasively, but in a sad and earnest tone.

"So be it--and fare-thee-well," said Gottlob, finishing his last mouthful, and hurrying to depart.

"And heed you, gentle youth," again cried Magdalena, "as you cross the bridge to leave the
town. The river is much swollen with the late rains, so much as to threaten destruction to
the tottering fabric."

"I fear no such danger," was the young man's reply; "and besides, have I not thy charm?" he
continued, laughing, holding up a black ring inscribed with strange characters, that hung about
his neck.

"Oh, say not so!" said the old woman earnestly, as a recollection of the Witchfinder's dreadful
threats the night before came across her mind. "Call it not a charm! The holy church permits
not of such dealings. It was but a remembrance that I gave you, to think sometimes on the poor
wretch whose life you had preserved. It was of little value; but I had nought else to give.
I prayed only that it might bring happiness to you, boy, for it had brought nothing but misery
and wretchedness to me."

Long before old Magdalena could complete her sentence, the eager youth had left the room. The
old woman looked after him for a time with a look of gratitude, and then, hurrying to the artist's
table, threw herself down upon her knees beside the open missal, and gazed with intense eagerness
upon the picture of the fair saint upon which he had been painting. She approached her lips
as if to kiss it; then again drew back, as if she feared to mar the colouring by her caress:
then gazed again, until her eyes filled with tears: and at last, with the cry, "Yes! it is
she--her very self!" burst into a fit of convulsive sobbing, and buried her face between her hands.

As she still lay crouched upon her knees, a partly-concealed door, which led towards the monastery,
and was almost in disuse, slowly opened, and a figure, enveloped in a monk's robe and cowl,
entered the room.

Magdalena was not at first aware of the entrance of the stranger; and it was only when, after
looking about the room, as if to assure himself that no one was there, he approached the table,
that she heard the footstep, and lifted up her head in surprise. The intruder evidently as
little expected to find the room already tenanted; for he also started upon seeing the kneeling
woman. But the astonishment of both parties was greatly increased when their eyes met each
other. Far from attempting to rise from her knees, Magdalena remained in an attitude of supplication
before the stranger, who was an aged man of mild aspect, and folding her arms across her heart,
bent down her head like a penitent, in order to avoid his scrutinizing look.

"Magdalena! thou here!" said the seeming monk, in a tone of voice which, naturally that of
benevolence, he evidently strove to render harsh and severe. "How comes this? Thou hast left,
without my knowledge, the seclusion of the convent in which I placed thee? In defiance of thy
solemn promise, and thy accepted vow of penitence, thou hast approached this town--thou hast
sought, perhaps, forgetful of thy oath"----

"No, no," interrupted the agitated woman, "that cruel oath has sealed my lips for ever. God
knows, and you, reverend father--you know, that I had accepted the bitterest trial woman can
bear on earth, in expiation of my past sin. Long did I observe my vow of penitence without
a murmur to heaven or to you. But I thought to die. A fever had seized me, and a burning thought
came over me that I no longer could withstand. O God, forgive me--but my head was turned--I
knew not what I did! I longed to see once more on earth that object that was my only earthly
joy. That uncontrollable desire overcame the stubborn resolution of a vow, which long years
of tears and mortification had striven to fortify in vain. I fled. I hoped once more to glad
my eyes--but once----but once, my father, and then to lay me down and die, trusting in God's
pardon and your reverence's." And Magdalena bowed her head to the ground, as a criminal awaiting
her sentence.

"Thou hast erred, woman--bitterly and grievously," replied the stranger harshly, adding, however,
with a feeling of indulgence that his kindly nature evidently could ill suppress, "but the
struggle of the spirit with the weakness of the body, in sickness and in fever, is heavy to
bear. And yet," he continued, again assuming a severity of manner, "thou livest, and I still
find thee here. Thou hast remained to feast thy eyes upon thy earthly treasure, in forgetfulness
of thy vow of mortification for thy soul's weal."

"Pardon!" cried Magdalena, raising her hands in supplication.

"But thou must leave this place forthwith," continued the monk. "Return to the convent, and
employ thyself in such acts of penitence as my orders shall prescribe."

"Pardon!" again cried the unhappy woman, "for my vow is heavier than I can bear. It is a task
beyond the force of human nature!"

"Foolish woman!" exclaimed the stranger. "Wouldst thou compromise the happiness and peace of
mind of the being thou lovest best, by the danger of a discovery to which thy presence here
might lead? Thy expiation is severe. Such as we, alas!" and the monk heaved a sigh, "who cannot
feel the vibration of some of the tenderest chords of humanity, know not how to sound in its
profundity; but I can judge that it must be grievous to bear. Still it must be so. Go, then,
in peace--but go. What I command no longer in the name of thy salvation, I ask of thy heart,
for the repose of thy heart's treasure."

"Father," said the penitent, sobbing at his feet--"I obey! But I have still a secret to impart
to you, upon which depends, perhaps, the happiness of that beloved one. Oh! deign to hear me."

"In three days hence, let me receive thy shrift at the convent of Saint Bridget," continued
the ecclesiastic. "There also I will hear thy secret. But tell me," he added, looking round
the room with some surprise--"how comest thou here in gentle master Gottlob's studio?"

"It was he who saved my life," answered Magdalena, striving to repress her sobbing, "when in
the midst of the snows, and the keen blast of winter, death had laid hands upon me. Ever since,
he has cherished and nourished the unknown outcast in his abode."

"Generous youth!" said the stranger. "I came to witness, alone and unbiassed, his progress
in his noble art; and I find that the heart soars as nobly as the head. So should ever be true
genius! Yes, yes!" he murmured to himself, looking around, "he advances towards perfection
with rapid strides. This arabesque is exquisite. And this head, how beautiful! And yon statue
of our Holy Mother--what heavenly grace in its fashioning!"

And with more of such commendatory observations, interspersed now and then with a few gentle
criticisms, which showed the connoisseur as well as the gratified admirer, he took up and examined
the various designs dispersed upon the table. When his curiosity seemed fully satisfied, he
again turned to Magdalena.

"I must away," he said; "for I have still many arduous and painful duties to perform, and my
time is limited. I rely upon thy strict secrecy, Magdalena. I would not it should be known
that I was here. And remember, in three days at Saint Bridget's convent!"

With these words he stretched forth his hand. She again knelt, and kissed it devoutly; and
pulling his black robe and cowl more closely about his face and person, the monk disappeared
by the concealed door.

Magdalena still knelt, overcome by her various emotions, when a sound from the window looking
into the river startled her, and caused her to turn round. An involuntary scream burst from
her lips; for from among the branches of a tree that grew upon the river's banks, and overhung
the window, peered, through the dingy panes, the pale face of the witchfinder.

It was about the hour of vespers; and an unusually dense crowd of the town's people of Hammelburg,
of all ages, ranks, and sexes, swarmed in the small open space before the fine old Gothic church
of the town, and stood in many a checkered group--here, of fat thriving bourgeois and their
portly wives, dragging in their hands chubby and rebellious little urchins, who looked all
but spherical in their monstrous puffed hose or short wadded multifold petticoats, the miniature
reproductions of the paternal and maternal monstrosities of attire--there, of more noisy and
clamorous artizans, in humbler and less preposterous dress--on the one side, of chattering
serving-damsels, almost crushed under their high pyramidical black caps, worn in imitation
of an ancient fashion of their betters--on the other, of grave counsellors and schreibers in
their black costumes, interlarding their pompous phrases with most canine Latin--here again,
of the plumed and checkered soldiers of the civic guard--there, of ragged-robed beggars, whose
whine had become a second nature--all in a constant ferment of movement and noise, until the
square might be fancied to look like the living and crawling mass of an old worm-eaten cheese.

The congregation of the multitude had been induced by a report prevalent throughout the town,
that the Prince Bishop, whose arrival from Fulda at his castle of Saaleck, close at hand, had
been announced, was about to make his entrance in grand state, and that a holy and solemn service
to celebrate this event was to be performed at the high church.

Already, however, other rumours were afloat among the crowd; and it began to be confidently
stated, that a sudden change of plans had forced the Prince Bishop to renounce his intention.

Listening with anxiety, on the outskirts of a group, to the discussion upon the probabilities
or improbabilities of the service taking place in the absence of the Prince, stood Magdalena.
She was attired in her usual dark semi-monastic dress; but to this was now added the scrip,
wallet, and tall crossheaded staff of the wandering pilgrim. As the prevailing opinion appeared
to be that the Ober-Amtmann would attend, at all events, at the celebration of the church rites
intended to be performed, Magdalena turned away with a calmer air, murmuring to herself the words--

"I shall see her once more--once, and for the last time: and God surely will forgive the sin,
if such it be. One look of last farewell! and then again a long expiation of penitence and prayer."

So saying, she traversed the small square to the broad stairs of the church, where she sat
herself down upon the highest step, among a group of beggar women and ragged children, and,
sinking her head to the ground, seemed to dispose herself to wait with patience.

Shortly afterwards, a young man also began to mount the steps leading to the great entrance
of the church, as if with the intention of placing himself near the arch, in so favourable
a position as to be close by all those who should pass into the interior. He bounded upwards
with anxious haste and beating heart--although there was yet a long interval before the commencement
of the service--and with a movement so hurried and agitated, that he brushed rudely against
one person of a group in his way. He turned, with a gentleness of feeling unusual at the time
towards the lower classes, to crave of the female he had pushed a pardon for his awkwardness.
At the sound of his voice the old woman raised her head.

"Magdalena!" cried the young man with surprise, as he recognised upon her the evident symbols
of travel and wayfaring peculiar to that age, "What means this pilgrim's garb?"

"Alas! kind, gentle Master Gottlob," replied Magdalena in a tone of the bitterest sadness,
as she rose from her seat, "my hour is arrived, and I must leave you. Ask me not why. I must
go as I have come, in silence and mystery. But oh! I beseech you, deem me not ungrateful. I
had not quitted you without a last farewell--a last assurance that all your gentle charities
are engraven here, upon my heart for ever."

"Magdalena!" again exclaimed Gottlob, still astonished at this unexpected announcement, "thou
leavest me thus abruptly?"

"Again, I pray you, gentle Master," said the old woman sobbing, "think me not unkind or cold.
The will of another is far stronger than my own. The will of God is above all. We shall meet
no more on earth, young man; at least I fear so: my destiny leads me from the world. But my
prayers shall be offered up, morning and evening, at my noontide meal as at my lying down;
at all times, and in all places, whenever it shall please Heaven to hear them, for my generous
benefactor."

"But you must not quit me thus," said the young man--"thus unassisted, in penury and want.
I have but little, it is true, but that little shall be thine. What matter the gauds I thought
to purchase? the dainty plume to deck my cap?" Still, in spite of himself, an unconscious sigh
broke, as he spoke, from the breast of "Gentle Gottlob," at the anticipated renunciation of
the braveries that were to give him a price in the eye of the fair object of his adoration.
"Can my poor savings be better bestowed than upon thee?"

"I need not thy generous sacrifice, kind youth," replied Magdalena. "The pilgrim lacketh nothing
in a Christian land; and soon I shall be beyond all want."

"Oh! speak not thus sadly," said Gottlob, taking her hand.

"I meant it not so sadly as you deem. I am resigned still to live on, until it please God to
release me from this world of sin and sorrow, more easily resigned and with a calmer spirit,
since, through the mist of solitary darkness around me, I see a way of hope that shines not
upon me, but upon the bright forms most dear to me."

"What meanest thou, Magdalena?" cried the young man.

"Strive not to comprehend me," said the old woman in a more subdued tone--"I would not foster
vain delusions;" and, as if to remove the impression of what she had said from Gottlob's mind,
she hastily added, "You have not seen the Prince at Saaleck?"

"Alas, no!" replied the young artist. "My noble patron had already left the castle with a small
retinue, and I was too late to meet him. It was said that he was gone upon a visit to all the
various monasteries in this part of the country, in order to hold secret counsel with the different
dignitaries of the church in his domain, respecting the late heresies that have appeared, and
already spread so widely throughout the land."

Magdalena was about to answer, when a new and general movement among the crowd, showed that
the expectation of the multitude was aroused. The tapers upon the altars in the church had
been lighted in splendid profusion. The vapour of incense already scented the air, as it floated
down the aisles. The organ pealed through the church; and the priests, in their sacerdotal
robes, were seen advancing along the middle aisle towards the entrance, to meet the expected
dignitary. But Gottlob and Magdalena gazed not upon this priestly show; their heads were turned
in another direction, and looked from the church across the square. Their hearts beat with
one feeling. Both murmured to themselves with one accord, "She comes!"

Already the pikes of the guard preceding the noble Ober-Amtmann appeared emerging from the
street leading to the episcopal palace, and the soldiers, entering the square, cleared the
way rudely through the crowd, when Magdalena again pressed tightly her companion's arm.

"Swear to me, young man," she whispered in a low and solemn tone, "as you value your salvation--swear
to me ever to respect the purity and peace of mind of that innocent and happy girl, upon whose
fair face I shall now gaze for the last time!"

Gottlob looked at the excited woman with much surprise.

"Swear to me that you will not trouble her unconscious heart with words of love, until, perhaps,
a better time may come!" she continued, with hesitation.

"Magdalena, I understand thee not," replied the young man. "But before me she is as a holy
saint of heaven, at whose shrine we may bow down and pray, but whom we cannot pollute with
earthly touch."

"God grant you happiness, young man!" said Magdalena, dropping her flowing tears upon the hand
she held in her own.

Gottlob's attention was too much absorbed in the sight of the one object of his eager gaze,
to heed more seriously, at that moment, the strange and solemn adjuration of the old woman.
His heart beat with intense violence, his cheek flushed, his mild blue eyes dilated with animation,
as he followed along the square the form of Bertha, who was advancing in the procession by
her father's side. And now she was about to mount the church steps, she would be obliged to
pass close by him, perhaps near enough for her dress to touch his own; for the crowd was dense
behind, and pressed forward upon those who stood, like him, in the foremost row. The agitation
of his companion equaled, perhaps exceeded, his own.

The clergy now stood under the church gate--the preceding guards had stationed themselves on
either side of the arch--the Ober-Amtmann, leading his daughter by the hand, had reached the
broad surface of the highest step, where stood the aged female and the young artist, when the
agitated Magdalena, unable to control her feelings as the governor and his fair child passed
so near, bent lowly down, and seized the hem of Bertha's garment to kiss it unperceived. At
that moment, a rude gripe seized her arm and dragged her up, and a harsh voice shrieked in
her ear--"Touch her not, hag of hell, to cast thy infernal spells upon her!" A scream of terror
burst from Magdalena as she recognised Black Claus, the witchfinder.

"Noble Ober-Amtmann, hear me!" cried the cripple, pushing forward with force, and arresting
with a wild gesture the progress of the dignitary. "I here denounce, before your noble honour,
this wretched woman as a most foul and most notorious witch."

In the rude attack thus made upon the unhappy woman--on her terror and surprise--the cross-topped
pilgrim's staff slipped from her grasp, and slightly wounding the fair neck of Bertha, it fell
upon the pavement, and was splintered into several pieces.

"See, see!" screamed the witchfinder, "how she strives to harm the innocent and good, and destroys
and tramples under foot--curses on her!--the holy symbols of the church."

With a feeling of horror and alarm, for which the credence in witchcraft and its agents that
pervaded all ranks and classes at that age gave full warrant, Bertha clung with a scream to
her father's breast, and sought protection in his arms. At this sight the unhappy Magdalena
uttered a bitter cry of despair, and raising her clasped hands aloft, exclaimed--"O God! Thou
punishest me too bitterly."

"Hear ye," cried the witchfinder, "how she owneth her crime even in her blasphemy!"

With one arm the Ober-Amtmann pressed the terrified Bertha to his bosom, and, with the other,
signed to some of the guards to surround the old woman. At this moment the sight of the blood
which had trickled in a few insignificant drops upon her veil, caught the eye of the alarmed
girl, and turning very pale, she held forth a crucifix, which hung about her neck, towards
the spot where stood Magdalena, as if to exorcise the powers of witchcraft directed against
her, and sobbed--"Oh! take her from my sight--save me--she would destroy me!"

"It is she condemns me!" cried Magdalena; and, with another heart-rending exclamation of despair,
she fell forward to the earth as if in violent convulsions.

"See, see!" shouted Claus in triumph, "how the sight of the holy cross causes the devil within
her to tear and rend her."

The bystanders shrank in horror from the prostrate form of the unhappy woman. The guards, who
had approached, kept at a sufficient distance to avoid all contact with the reputed witch,
although near enough to prevent her escape.

Petrified with astonishment and dismay at the strange scene that had passed thus rapidly before
him, and shocked at the sight of Bertha's wound and terror, Gottlob had stood at first incapable
of movement. But when he saw Magdalena thus stricken to the earth, he forgot all the terrors
of witchcraft--he forgot the horrible denunciation--he forgot even Bertha's fainting form;
the instinctive impulse of his kindly nature was to rush forward and to raise the poor old
woman. Before he could reach her, however, twenty hands had pulled him back with force--twenty
voices screamed in his ear, "Touch her not--beware!" In vain he struggled, and strove to extricate
himself--in vain he protested the poor woman's innocence--he was held back by force.

In the meanwhile, although those nearest to the accused woman drew back with terror, the remoter
crowd rushed forward towards the church steps in violent excitement, preferring loud cries
of "A witch!--a witch! To the stake with her--to the stake!" The deeper voices of the men mingling
with the shriller cries of the women and children.

In the midst of this scene of tumult, the Ober-Amtmann conveyed his daughter in his arms--for
she had now completely fainted--to the church, and confided her to the care of her women. Upon
returning, he sternly gave orders that the accused female should be placed in the prison of
the town, with a guard before the door, until the denouncer should be heard against her.

"Come hither man, black cripple!" he continued, with some disgust, to Claus: "We know that
the dreadful crime of witchcraft has, like heresy, made much and notable progress in the land
of late; and although our reverend brother views the former abomination with more lenient eye
than ourselves, we think that fagot and stake are but too slight a punishment for such black
and damning sin. But still, of late, thy denunciations against this crime have much multiplied;
and sometimes, it has seemed to our justice, upon but small and vague proof--although popular
voice demanded the condemnation of the wretched women. Have a care, then, how thou wrongfully
preferrest such a charge--have a care how thou jugglest with our sense of right and wrong;
for though there seemeth, in truth, to be some appearance of the demon and his works in the
horror which that woman has expressed for the symbols of our holy religion, and in the manner
in which she has drawn blood from our young and innocent daughter, yet were we to find thy
accusation to be inspired by motive or the spirit of falsehood, as we live that pile which
threatens the sorceress and hag shall be thy own seat--the fire thy death-garment."

"Noble Amtmann," cried the witchfinder, undaunted by this address, "I fear not the proof. Again
I denounce that woman as dealing in witchcraft, and consorting with the powers of darkness."

As the guard drew nearer, to force the unhappy woman with their pike-heads to rise from the
ground, where she still lay crouched together, the wretched Magdalena raised her head, and
her eyes fell upon the dark face of the witchfinder, as it glared upon her in triumph. The
hideous yells of the crowd prevented her hearing the only faint voice of pity raised in her
behalf--that of gentle Gottlob. Her brain whirled with terror--she thought that her last hour
was come; and, with a heavy shudder throughout her whole frame, she fell senseless to the ground.

NATURAL HISTORY OF MAN.{A}

It has probably occurred to the reflecting student of logic, that the philosophers of the schools
must have been sorely straitened in seeking for a definition of man, before they would have
had recourse to such a derogation from his apparently higher attributes, as to define him by
"animal risibile," or "animal bipes implumis." An attentive consideration will, however, show
the enquirer, that to distinguish man from the remainder of the animal kingdom by his structural
characteristics alone, is not so easy a task as would at first sight appear; and he will be
obliged at length to return to some such humiliating designation of the genus animal, species
homo, as those above given. Physical differences, indeed, there are between man and the other
tribes of mammalia; but these differences are more matters of anatomical detail, than such
salient notable exponents as would at once be recognised and admitted by the sceptical objector.
The strength, moreover, of these differences resides in the whole collectively, and not in
any one taken singly. If, however, the student take as his grounds for induction the habits
of the species, instead of its structure, he will find a much broader line of demarcation.
Wherever he examines the existing relations or former records of his race, and compares them
with those of other animals, he will find that the instincts of the one are variable and progressive,
those of the other are definite and stationary. As far as has ever been ascertained by the
most accurate observer, the nest of the grossbeak, the dam of the beaver, the cone of the termites,
were, ages ago, each similar in character, and equal in perfection, to those of the present
day; while, whether we compare the rude wigwam of the uncivilized savage, or the more finished
architecture of ancient Thebes, with the buildings, railroads, and shipping of the present
day, we still find a continual variation, and a progressive adaptation to new wants. The psychological
characteristics stand out then in fuller relief than the physiological; but yet the former
are by no means free from grounds for cavil. Domestic animals acquire new habits, varying from
their natural instincts. Admitting these to result from the teaching of man, it still shows--as
does, indeed, the fact of domestication--a capability of progression; and some feeble instances
of the faculty of learning may be detected even in the wild tribes of animals. Thus every thing
becomes, if hypercritically examined, a question of degree, "demo unum, demo etiam unum," and
the hundred years become an hour; nought is every thing, and every thing is nought. Rational
investigation, then, should lead us to reject, or at least to set no undue value upon, extreme
instances, or the merging shadows of boundaries; the spectrum consists of separate colours,
though we may not tell where the red ends and the yellow begins.

The fair questions in examining the physiology and psychology of man, with a view to his place
in the creation, are, 1st, Whether his distinctive marks and attributes, taken collectively,
are such as broadly separate him from the rest of the animal kingdom; 2dly, Supposing such
distinctions to exist now, whether they have existed at all periods of which we can acquire
any evidence; and, 3dly, Whether these distinctions are common to the whole of the race to
which the term man is applied, or whether different tribes of men differ inter se as much as
the species viewed collectively differs from other species.

These, with other minor questions which arise out of them, are, as far as we can gather, the
propositions discussed in the work before us--a work abounding in elaborate research and erudition,
but somewhat deficient in logical precision or lucid arrangement; a mass of details is given,
but the links whereby the generalizations from these are sought to be established, are here
and there wanting, and here and there obscure. It is probably the fault of the subject, which
is in its character inexact; but we certainly expected that more had been done; and from some
passages in the early portions of the work, we were induced to believe that the author had
succeeded in proving races of mankind to be more distinctly deducible from their sources, and
that their physical and moral relations were more definitely traced. The following passage,
in which the object of the work is enounced by the author, is wanting in precision and perspicuity:--

     "That great differences in external conditions, by the double
     influence of their physical and moral agency, should have effected,
     during a long series of ages, remarkable changes in the tribes of
     human beings subjected to their operation--changes which have
     rendered these several tribes fitted in a peculiar manner for their
     respective abodes--is by no means an improbable conjecture; and it
     becomes something more than a conjecture, when we extend our view
     to the diversified breeds of those animals which men have
     domesticated, and have transferred with themselves from one climate
     to another. Considered in this point of view, it acquires, perhaps,
     the character of a legitimate theory, supported by adequate
     evidence, and by an extensive series of analogous facts.

     "But we must not omit to observe, that to this opinion there is an
     alternative, and one which many persons prefer to maintain; namely,
     that the collective body of mankind is made up of different races,
     which have differed from each other in their physical and moral
     nature from the beginning of their existence. To determine which of
     these two opinions is the best entitled to assent, or at least to
     set before my readers a clear and distinct notion of the evidence
     that can be brought to bear upon the question, will be my principal
     object in the following work."

Now, as they are here stated, the two opinions are not necessarily contradictory; differences
in external condition may effect remarkable changes in tribes of human beings, and yet the
collective body may be made up of different races: and to set before the reader a clear and
distinct notion, is to prove nothing, although indeed, as we shall see in the sequel, the author
has a very strong conviction, and believes that he succeeds in proving, as far as a matter
incapable of mathematical demonstration can be proved, the negative of the latter proposition.
What the author seems to intend, or rather what the whole tenor of his book imports, though
his expressions at times go much further, is, not that community of origin is proved inductively
by the researches which have been made into the existing and past state of man, but that the
natural history of man presents nothing inconsistent with such a view.

The researches of Cuvier and others have negatived the theory of Lamarcke as to the transmutation
of species. The "nisus formativus" is admitted, but admitted with limits, "quos ultra citraque
nequit consistere rectum".

The extreme rarity of hybrids, their inability of continuous procreation, the absence of any
well-authenticated cases of a permanent species formed by the union of two distinct ones, the
return to the original type when the disturbing causes are removed, with various other arguments
tending the same way, have been considered, by the most competent and impartial judges, as
conclusive evidence of the real and permanent existence in nature of distinct species. These
arguments are stated in detail in the second volume of Lyell's Principles of Geology, to which
we refer those of our readers who wish for further information.

Having briefly stated these and similar arguments, Dr Prichard expresses his conclusion as
follows:--

     "It seems to be the well-established result of enquiries into the
     various tribes of organized beings, that the perpetuation of
     hybrids, whether of plants or animals, so as to produce new and
     intermediate tribes, is impossible.

     "Now, unless all these observations are erroneous, or capable of
     some explanation that has not yet been pointed out, they lead, with
     the strongest force of analogical reasoning, to the conclusion,
     that a number of different tribes, such as the various races of
     men, must either be incapable of intermixing their stock, and thus
     always fated to remain separate from each other; or, if the
     contrary should be the fact, that all the races to whom the remark
     applies, are proved by it to belong to the same species.

     "I believe it may be asserted, without the least chance of
     contradiction, that mankind, of all races and varieties, are
     equally capable of propagating their offspring by intermarriages,
     and that such connexions are equally prolific, whether contracted
     between individuals of the same or of the most dissimilar
     varieties. If there is any difference, it is probably in favour of
     the latter."

This conclusion is repeated a little further on.

     "It appears to be unquestionable that intermediate races of men
     exist and are propagated, and that no impediment whatever exists to
     the perpetuation of mankind when the most dissimilar varieties are
     blended together. We hence derive a conclusive proof--unless there
     be, in the instance of human races, an exception to the universally
     prevalent law of organized nature--that all the tribes of men are
     of one family.

     "Perhaps the solution of the problem which we have undertaken to
     discuss might be left on this issue, or considered as obtained by
     this argument. But further light may be thrown on the subject, by a
     careful analysis of the facts which can be collected relative to
     the nature and origination of varieties; and it may be satisfactory
     to my readers to survey this field of enquiry."

Granting, then, the truth of the limitation of species to be established, and taking as the
definition of species the power of continual propagation, we have it proved at the commencement
of the work, that "all human races are of one species;" the only question which remains is,
whether, admitting them to be of one species, the deduction that they have a common origin
is necessary; or, if not necessary, whether it is proved in the course of the author's work.
It does not appear to us a necessary conclusion; for there appears no reason à priori why the
Creator should not as well form separately an indefinite number of creatures of the same species
as a single pair. This point is not adverted to in the work before us; and whenever identity
of origin is assumed, it is upon the same grounds from which identity of species is deduced.
In fact, they are generally coupled; thus, at page 487, we have the expression--

     "If now it should appear, on enquiry, that one common mind, or
     psychical nature, belongs to the whole human family, a very strong
     argument would thence arise, on the ground of analogy, for their
     community of species and origin."

The great point as to identity of species being proved, it would be certainly more simple,
and more in unison with the economy of nature, to suppose that all were descended from one
pair, than that numerous identical members of a common species were simultaneously created.
On the other hand, a physiological difficulty occurs, in viewing a race as descended from a
single pair, from the fact universally recognised in the later periods of history, viz. the
degeneration, and, in the end, destruction or indefinite deterioration of both physical and
mental faculties, by continual intermarriage. The houses of Braganza and Hapsburg are notorious
instances of this; and, as far as we are aware, there are no counter instances.

The matter is incapable of absolute proof--we mean inductive proof; for it is in this point
that the work before us regards it. Any arguments, such as similarity of habits, of languages,
of opinions, which may be used to deduce community of origin, would be equally explained by
community of species; for, supposing that different individuals of the same species were simultaneously
created, the same physical formation would necessarily engender similar habits, and the power
of intermarriage would induce a similarity of language, long before any period to which our
histories go back. Taking, then, as a fair assumption, that, if identical in species, mankind
have a common origin, we get in the outset of the book the conclusion stated at the end, viz.
that all human races are of one species and one family. The great body of the work is, therefore,
only accessory and corroborative; and its value would consist not so much in proving the affirmative
of the author's thesis, as in placing in a prominent point of view the principal facts known
respecting the natural history of man.

It may be thought that, in the existing state of man, few marks remain from which his early
history may be deduced; but those unacquainted with the progress of inductive research, would
be astonished at the magnitude and importance of results derivable from an apparently simple
and worthless object. An unthinking wanderer, stumbling upon an ancient tombstone, if reproached
with inattention, would ask what is to be learned from such a relic. A word of inscription
would give a clue to the language, and, coupled with other observations, to the date of the
monument; the character of the stone, whether roughly hewn or elaborately carved, would give
evidence as to the tools used in its formation, and consequently furnish a key to the manufacturing
and metallurgic knowledge of the fabricators. The stone itself might possibly not be similar
to those in the immediate vicinity, and thence would indicate that travelling and the power
of transfer were practised, and the skeleton within would indicate the physical formation of
the men of that day. We have selected here a case of an ordinary grave, but how much stronger
would the case be were we to take a sarcophagus of Egypt, enclosing a mummy? The inscription,
the fabric of the cere-cloth, the chemical substances with which it is impregnated, as well
as those by which the body is preserved, and the relics commonly deposited with it, would lead,
by careful investigation, to a tolerably accurate knowledge of the character and habits of
the time; and where many relics of different descriptions, collected from different parts,
are skilfully compared, a body of evidence is arrived at, minutely circumstantial in its details,
and the veracity of which admits of no dispute. As the researches of comparative anatomists
have enabled us, from the examination of a single bone, to pronounce with certainty upon the
general conformation and habits of the animal to which it belonged; and as, in many cases,
from the existence of such animals, we may go on, step by step, to the nature of the earth's
surface at the period when they lived: so the meanest relic of art will serve the natural historian
of man as a fulcrum by which he may turn up a mass of genuine information; with which, as with
all knowledge, as its store increases, the power of applying it becomes more facile; until
at length it scarcely becomes an exaggeration to say, that every material relic bears in itself
its own natural history, and, if artificially modified, the history of its fabricators--what
the germ is to futurity the relic is to the past.

From the data which Dr Prichard has given us, in a somewhat scattered form, we shall endeavour
to collect and group the most interesting of his facts and opinions. In order to ascertain
what modifications of physical structure, variation of climate, food, and habits, may effect
upon mankind, it is necessary, first, to review the effects produced by such variation upon
domesticated animals. It is indeed questionable whether we can in any case, with certainty,
trace these to their native wilds; but, in many cases, we have instances of their return to
a savage state, as with the wild horses, goats, oxen, &c.; and although it does not necessarily
follow that their conformation, induced by such return, is identical with their original structure,
yet there is a reasonable probability that such is the case, and we must take these cases for
want of better. How far, then, has the outward form been altered by the changes induced by
domestication; how far are instincts acquired by such changes capable of hereditary transmission,
and is there any, and what, connexion between the changed instincts and the changed structure?
These questions, involving among other things the infant and difficult science of phrenology,
Dr Prichard has left very much to conjecture. Whether he considers the data too imperfect,
or is afraid of trusting himself with any decided expression of opinion on a subject which
has been so obscured by charlatanry, and which is open to so much misapprehension, does not
appear; but it certainly is an apparently striking defect, that where a large portion of the
work is devoted to the explanation of the different forms of the cranium in the inferior animals
and in man, and to which the largest portion of his pictorial illustrations apply, he should
give us so little insight into his opinions as to what extent phrenology is fairly entitled
to credibility. His having taken so much pains in collecting facts and drawings on this point,
necessarily leads to the inference that he attaches much value to the craniological distinctions.
We shall take an opportunity presently of recurring to this subject. We will now take some
of the most interesting instances, given by Dr Prichard, of structural changes and hereditary
instincts, acquired by domesticated animals, and again lost by them on returning to a wild state:--

     "Swine transported from Europe to America, since the discovery of
     the western continent by the Spaniards in the fourteenth century,
     and wandering at large in the vast forests of the New World, and
     feeding on wild fruits, have resumed the manner of existence which
     belonged to the original stock. Their appearance nearly resembles
     that of the wild boar. Their ears have become erect; their heads
     are larger, and the foreheads vaulted at the upper part; their
     colour has lost the variety found in the domestic breeds. The wild
     hogs of the American forests are uniformly black. The hog which
     inhabits the high mountains of Paramos bears a striking resemblance
     to the wild boar of France. His skin is covered with a thick fur,
     often somewhat crisp, beneath which is found, in some individuals,
     a species of wool. From excessive cold and defect of nourishment,
     the hog of that region is of small and stunted figure. In some warm
     parts of America, the swine are not uniformly black, as above
     described, but red, like the young pecari. At Melgara and other
     places, there are some which are not entirely black, but have a
     white band under the belly reaching up to the back; they are termed
     cinchados. The restoration of the original character of the wild
     boar in a race descended from domesticated swine, removes all
     reason for doubt, if any had really existed, as to the identity of
     the stock; and we may safely proceed to compare the physical
     characters of these races, as varieties which have arisen in one
     species. The restoration of one uniform black colour, and the
     change of thin sparse hair and bristles for a thick fur with a
     covering of wool, are facts that must be noticed in the
     observations of M. Roulin. The difference in the shape of the head
     between the wild and domestic hog of America, is very remarkable.
     Blumenbach long ago pointed out the great difference between the
     cranium of our swine and that of the primitive wild boar. He
     remarked that this difference is quite equal to that which has been
     observed between the skull of the Negro and the European. 'Those
     persons,' he says, 'who have no opportunity of verifying the fact,
     have only need to cast their eyes on the figure which Daubenton has
     given of both the former. I shall pass over,' he adds, 'the lesser
     varieties of breeds which may be found among swine, as among men,
     and only mention that I have been assured by M. Sobzer, that the
     peculiarity of having the bone of the leg remarkably long, which in
     the human kind is observed among the Hindoos, has been remarked
     with regard to swine in Normandy. They stand very long on their
     hind legs; their back, therefore, is highest at the rump, forming a
     kind of inclined plane; and the head proceeds in the same
     direction, so that the snout is not far from the ground.'

     "'Swine,' continues Blumenbach, 'in some countries have degenerated
     into races which, in singularity, far exceed every thing that has
     been found strange in bodily variety among the human race. Swine
     with solid hoofs were known to the ancients, and large breeds of
     them are found in Hungary and Sweden. In like manner, the European
     swine first carried by the Spaniards in 1509 to the island of
     Cubagua, at that time celebrated for its pearl fishery, degenerated
     into a monstrous race, with toes which were half a span in length.'
     There are breeds of solid-hoofed swine in some parts of England.
     The hoof of the swine is also found divided into five clefts.

     "Buffon had before remarked the varieties of the hog tribe. 'In
     Guinea,' he observes, 'this species has acquired very long ears,
     couched upon the back; in China, a large pendant belly, and very
     short legs; at Cape Verde and other places, very large tusks,
     crooked like the horns of oxen; in domestication, half pendant and
     white ears.'"

            *       *       *       *       *

     "A very remarkable fact relative to the oxen of South America is
     recorded by M. Roulin, to which M. Geoffrey St Hilaire has
     particularly adverted, in the report made by him on M. Roulin's
     Memoir, before the Royal Academy of Sciences.

     "In Europe, the milking of cows is continued through the whole
     period, from the time when they begin to bear calves till they
     cease to breed. This secretion of milk has become a constant
     function in the animal economy of the tribe; it has been rendered
     such by the practice, continued through long series of generations,
     of continuing to draw milk long after the period when it would be
     wanted for the calf; the teats of the cow are larger than in
     proportion, and the secretion is perpetual. In Columbia, the
     practice of milking cows was laid aside, owing to the great extent
     of farms and other circumstances. 'In a few generations,' says M.
     Roulin, 'the natural structure of parts, and withal, the natural
     state of the function, has been restored. The secretion of milk in
     the cow of this country is only an occasional phenomenon, and
     contemporary with the actual presence of the calf. If the calf
     dies, the milk ceases to flow, and it is only by keeping him with
     his dam by day, that an opportunity of obtaining milk from cows by
     night can be found.' This testimony is important, by the proof
     which it affords that the permanent production of milk in the
     European breeds of cows is a modified function of the animal
     economy, produced by an artificial habit continued through several
     generations. Two other very important observations made by M.
     Roulin in South America, were pointed out by M. Geoffrey St Hilaire
     in his report to the Academy of Sciences. They refer to the fact of
     the hereditary transmission of habits originally impressed with
     care and art upon the ancestors. Of this fact I shall adduce other
     examples in the sequel; at present I only advert to M. Roulin's
     observations. The horses bred in the grazing farms on the
     table-land of the Cordillera, are carefully taught a peculiar pace,
     which is a sort of running amble. This is not their natural mode of
     progression, but they are inured to it very early, and the greatest
     pains are taken to prevent them from moving in any other gait. In
     this way the acquired habit becomes a second nature. It happens
     occasionally that such horses, becoming lame, are no longer fit for
     use; it is then customary to let them loose, if they happen to be
     well-grown stallions, into the pasture grounds. It is constantly
     observed that these horses become the sires of a race to which the
     ambling pace is natural, and requires no teaching. The fact is so
     well known, that such colts have received a particular name; they
     are termed 'aguilillas.'

     "The second fact is, the developement of a new instinct, which, as
     M. Roulin declares, seems to become hereditary in the breed of dogs
     found among the borderers on the river Madeleine, which are
     employed in hunting the pecari. I shall cite the author's own
     words:--'L'addresse du chien consiste à modérer son ardeur à ne
     s'attacher à aucun animal en particulier, mais à tenir toute la
     troupe en échec. Or, parmi ces chiens, on en volt maintenant qui,
     la première fois qu'on les amène au bois, savent dejà comment
     attaquer; un chien d'une autre espèce se lance tout d'abord, est
     environné, et quelle que soit sa force, il est dévoré dans un
     instant.'"

To these cases we may add a case familiar to the sportsmen of this country, and one of which
we have ourselves seen an unquestionable instance, viz. the acquired habit of the setting-dog
in arresting his steps, and crouching, when in pursuit of game; the origin of which was probably
a pause in his career, in order the better to ascertain the position of the game of which he
was in quest; but this, by constant teaching, has become hereditary to such an extent, that
occasionally a dog of pure breed will, the first time he is taken out, as soon as he gets on
the scent of game, crouch or place himself in a setting attitude, and remain perfectly immobile
until forced to proceed; nay further--as it is necessary that the sportsman teach the dogs
who are in the same field with that one who discovers the game, as soon as they see the latter
setting to arrest their steps likewise; or, as it is termed, to back, in order not to disturb
the game--in the instance which came under our notice, a dog of eight or nine months old, which
had never been out of a town, when taken into the fields for the first time with an old well-trained
dog, as soon as the latter had discovered game, and pointed to it, instantly backed him--i.e.
remained stiffly standing in the position in which he was when he first caught sight of the
older dog: probably many sportsmen could be found who would vouch to similar facts.

We may here state that we quite agree with Dr Prichard, as to the absence of any foundation
for the general belief, that all the acts of inferior animals are performed without their consciousness
or view to any object or end; on the contrary, there is every probability that they, in carrying
into effect their several instincts, seem to themselves to act from similar internal impulses
of will and intention, as human beings do.

We need not enter into the vast number of varieties which the most domestic of all domesticated
animals, the dog, exhibits; we shall only remark, that, in all their varieties, Dr Prichard says,--

     "Restored to a state of comparative wildness, which approaches to
     their unreclaimed and primitive condition, the tribes of dogs every
     where make a corresponding approximation to the type which may be
     supposed to have belonged to the species in its original state."

But this passage is enigmatical, as the original type seems to be involved in dense obscurity.
Buffon considered the shepherd dog to be the least modified by domestication--very erroneously,
according to Dr Prichard; it is still a vexata questio, whether the original progenitor of
the dog be a wolf, a jackal, a fox, or an unknown animal differing from all these.

     "The sheep is one of the most anciently domesticated animals, and
     it is one in which great varieties display themselves. It has been
     long believed, and this appears to have been the opinion of Baron
     Cuvier, that all the breeds of tamed sheep are descended either
     from the argali of Siberia, or from the moufloun or musmon of
     Barbary. This is at present doubted by most naturalists. There
     seems, however, to be no reason for believing that the domestic
     breeds belong to more than one species, though they differ much in
     different countries. In Europe, the breeds of sheep vary much in
     stature, in the texture of their wool, the number and shape of
     their horns, which are in some large, in some small, in others
     wanting to the female, or altogether absent from the breed. The
     most important varieties in Europe are the Spanish breeds, some
     with fine, others with crisp wool, in which the rams have long
     spiral horns; the English breeds, which differ greatly in size and
     in the quality of the wool; and, in the southern parts of Russia,
     the long-tailed breed. The breeds of sheep in India and in Africa
     are remarkable for the length of their legs, a very convex
     forehead, and pendant ears; these also have long tails. Their
     covering is not wool, but a smooth hair. In the northern parts of
     Europe and Asia the sheep have short tails. The breeds spread
     through Persia, Tartary, and China, have their tails transformed
     into a double spherical mass of fat. The sheep of Syria and
     Barbary, on the other hand, have long tails, but likewise loaded
     with a mass of fat. In both of these varieties of the sheep the
     ears are pendant, the horns of the rams large, and those of the
     ewes and lambs of moderate size, and the body is covered with wool,
     mixed more or less with hair.

     "New breeds of sheep are frequently formed in different countries
     in which particular qualities predominate, according to the
     preference of the breeders. This is done, partly by crossing or
     intermixing races already constituted and well known; but in great
     part also by selecting individuals from the stock in which the
     particular qualities are more strongly marked than in the
     generality of the same breed. In these instances, the natural or
     congenital variety which the individual animal displays, perhaps
     for the first time, becomes perpetuated by the hereditary
     transmission of such characters, which is a law of the animal
     economy. A striking instance of this fact is to be found in the
     origination of a new breed of sheep in the state of Massachusetts,
     which has been noticed by many writers in connexion with this
     subject. In the year 1791, one ewe on the farm of Seth Wright gave
     birth to a male lamb, which, without any known cause, had a longer
     body and shorter legs than the rest of the breed. The joints are
     said to have been longer, and the fore-legs crooked. The shape of
     this animal rendering it unable to leap over fences, it was
     determined to propagate its peculiarities, and the experiment
     proved successful; a new race of sheep was produced, which, from
     the form of the body, has been termed the otter breed. It seems to
     be uniformly the fact, that when both parents are of the otter
     breed, the lambs that are produced inherit the peculiar form."

We might extract other instances of physiological and psychological changes induced by domestication,
but we think enough have been given to show the character and degree of such changes. The least
important change, and that which appears the soonest affected, is the colour of the skin and
hair. This is universally of an uniform tint in wild animals, and generally bears a close approximation
to the colour of the land in which the animal lives: thus the ptarmigan, inhabiting snowy regions,
is white; the grouse has the colour of heath; the hare that of dry fern or furze--a provision
which has the effect of protecting the weaker tribes from the stronger and predatory ones.
In domesticated animals, from causes apparently not as yet traced, the colour is variegated
and various. Closely connected with the colour and nature of the skin, are the size and shape
of the horns, their presence and absence. Great as is the apparent variety of appearance effected
by horns, changes in these appear to be easily induced: they are connected with the epidermic
structure, generally the most easily modified; and we need not cite instances to prove that
different breeds of the same tribe, and occasionally different individuals of the same breed,
differ materially as to horns. According to Azara, horned horses are sometimes seen in Paraguay.

Very little appears to be known, at least scarcely any intimation is given in the work before
us, of the proximate or final cause of these changes. Great as they are, certainly, as far
as we can judge, no nisus formativus can account for the enormous horns of the Spanish sheep;
nor, looking to the final cause; does there appear any reason why domestic animals should need
such overgrown instruments of defence. When, however, we come to the more important anatomical
modifications, such as the length and shape of the legs, the bones of the pelvis or of the
jaw, the object is more apparent. A greyhound, with the muzzle of a bull-dog, would be an obvious
natural inconsistency.

We now pass to the physical distinctions of the different races of men. Here we may observe
that a much greater importance is to be attached to comparatively slight variations. Considering
the surprising external differences that exist in domesticated animals of the same species,
the wonder rather is, that the different races of men differ physically so little as they do,
than that they differ so much. Here we will take first, the least important shades of difference--the
texture of the skin, hair, and complexion; and then pass on to the more prominent diversities
of the bony fabric, cranium, &c.

     "The texture of the body, in which all these varieties have their
     seat, is the extracorial or exodermal structure, constituting, if I
     may so speak, the outer coating of the body, external to the true
     skin, which corresponds to the cuticular and corneous excrescences
     of animals--a structure which includes horns, hoofs, hair,
     feathers, and all similar appendages in different orders of
     animals. This structure displays infinite diversities in colour,
     constitution, and organization, and is the most variable tissue on
     the whole body. Many different opinions have, however, been lately
     maintained, and much research has been made, as to the nature and
     texture of the parts on which the variety of colour depends."

The ancient anatomists, it appears, recognised only two parts of the skin--the true skin, and
the outer cuticle or epidermis. Malpighi discovered a third layer interposed between these,
consisting of a sort of network, thence called rete mucosum, and believed to be the seat of
colour in the negro. Albinus showed this to be a continuous layer, and not a network. Cruikshank
discovered four layers--three membranes, and the fourth a layer of colour. Flourens, at a more
recent period, made the number of intermediate layers five, four of which he showed to the
French Academy; one of these, a mucous membrane underlying the pigment, is, according to this
anatomist, a distinct organized body, existing only in men of dark colour, and entirely wanting
in the white races, or else (which appears the more probable conjecture) maceration, and the
ordinary process of examination, fail to detect it in the skin of white men. Lastly, the microscopical
researches of Henle, Purkinje, and Schwann, go to prove that the outer integument does not
consist of separate membranes, but is of a cellular structure, and that of these cells or "cytoblasts,"
there are three distinct kinds. We will not further analyse the different opinions as to the
texture of the skin and position of the colouring material; it certainly throws no inconsiderable
degree of doubt over certain classes of scientific investigation, to find each subsequent research
entirely altering, and in some cases overturning, the previously received views.

To the different characters of human complexion, Dr Prichard gives three distinctive terms--the
melanous or brunette; the xanthous or blonde; and the leucous or albino; the melanous predominating
in the southern countries, the xanthous in the northern. It is observable here, that although
the natural divisions of territory with respect to complexion, (supposing climate to have the
principal modifying effect upon complexion,) would be the equatorial and polar regions, or
the zones of the earth which differ in latitude, yet, with some few exceptions, it is only
on the northern side of the equator that the xanthous complexion prevails--the inhabitants
of Australia and the South Sea Islands being very generally melanous. The distribution of land
and water cannot well be conceived to have any influence upon climate which would account for
such diversity; it is probably, therefore, a result of long-continued civilization, the covering
the body with clothes, and being for the most part sheltered from the direct rays of the sun.
The leucous complexion is an abnormal variety, and occurs occasionally in all countries. It
proceeds from the absence of the dark colouring matter, or pigment; there appears in this case,
however, no difference of anatomical structure, the pigment being sometimes subsequently developed
in persons who have been born albinoes. The change from the xanthous to the melanous complexion,
is a circumstance of constant occurrence; there are few children born, whose complexion does
not darken as they grow up, in many cases undergoing a total change: the passage from dark
to fair is rare, but it constantly occurs that xanthous, or even leucous children, are born
of melanous parents. There is nothing, therefore, in the diversities of complexion which indicates
specific diversity in different human races. Of the conformation of the bony fabric in the
human race, the formation of the skull is the part of the greatest importance; we shall only
therefore briefly notice, as to the other parts of the skeleton, that between the most uncultivated
races of men, and those tribes of apes which most nearly approach man, there is a wide difference--the
arms of the orang-outang reach to the ankle, and those of the chimpanzee below the knee; the
pelvis, or central bony fabric, differ much from those of the human race.

With regard to the skull, the value of the distinctions in its form and structure depends upon
their connexion with the size and organization of the brain--involving the question, whether
this has any, and what, influence upon the powers and habits of the creature. Dr Prichard,
as we have already stated, blinks the question of phrenology; though he makes some inferences
which prove him to have a general belief in the connexion between mental power and physical
formation; nay, further, in the appropriation of different portions of the brain to different
faculties.

Few will, we believe, in the present day be disposed entirely to deny that, ceteris paribus,
the external formation of the skull, or rather the shape of the brain as shown by the formation
of the skull, is a general index of the mental power of the individual to whom it belongs.
Look over a collection of busts, or portraits, of eminent men, and, with scarcely an exception,
they will be found to have high and capacious foreheads; while uncivilized races, and born
idiots, are lamentably deficient in this respect. The difficulties of phrenology exist in its
details, which by many have been carried out into degrees of subdivision certainly not warranted
either by the anatomical structure of the brain, or by any empirical data as to the form of
different crania, and the biography of the individuals to whom they have belonged. Where, in
the existing state of our knowledge, the proper mean may be, it is perhaps difficult to say;
but it would have been well, we think, had Dr Prichard given us a little more explicitly his
opinions as to what extent phrenology (we use the word in its broadest sense) may be fairly
relied on. As far as we can gather from the scattered passages in his book, he seems to take
a rational view of it; but a little less caution would certainly have been more instructive
to his readers, not only on the subject of phrenology, but on many of the connexions between
physical structure and the habits to which such structure is adapted. This is a hiatus in Dr
Prichard's work, the filling up of which would add much interesting matter, and serve to weave
together acts which at present are disjointed and isolated; giving the book a dry character,
and preventing its arresting the attention of the reader. Throughout a larger portion of the
work also, we have, in every third page or so, a minute description of the complexion, hair,
&c., of different people; which, however valuable as matter of record, becomes tiresome and
uninteresting as a continuous narrative, and would be much better thrown into a tabular form,
as matter of reference only, if incapable of being so linked as to present a plausible theory.

The following passage is the most explicit we can find on the subject of the connexion between
the physique and morale, and, at the same time, will serve to introduce the three varieties
of skull which the author deems principally worth notice:--

     "If any method of subdividing the human family into groups, is
     likely to be of any particular advantage in elucidating the natural
     history of the species, it must be one founded on some relation
     between the physical characteristics of different tribes and the
     leading circumstances of their external condition.

     "We shall clearly perceive, in tracing the following outline of
     ethnography, that the varieties of colour refer themselves, in
     part, to climates, elevations of land, proximity to the sea-coast,
     or distance from it. It can hardly be doubted that these conditions
     have likewise an effect on the configuration of the human body. But
     there is, perhaps, some truth in the remark, though frequently made
     on little better foundation than conjecture, that the prevailing
     form or configuration of the body is more liable to be influenced
     by the habits of different races, and their manner of living, than
     by the simple agencies of climate. It would be an interesting
     discovery, could it be shown that there is any apparent connexion
     between the display of particular forms, or the leading physical
     characters of human races, and their habits of existence. If I may
     venture to point out any such relation, it would be by remarking,
     in a very general manner, and without pretending to make the
     observation as one which holds without many exceptions, that there
     are in mankind three principal varieties in the form of the head
     and other physical characters, which are most prevalent
     respectively in the savage or hunting tribes, in the nomadic or
     wandering pastoral races, and in the civilized and intellectually
     cultivated divisions of the human family. Among the rudest tribes
     of men, hunters and savage inhabitants of forests, dependent for
     their supply of food on the accidental produce of the soil or on
     the chase, among whom are the most degraded of the African nations
     and the Australian savages, a form of the head is prevalent which
     is most aptly distinguished by the term prognathous, indicating a
     prolongation or extension forward of the jaws; and with this
     characteristic other traits are connected which will be described
     in the following pages. A second shape of the head, very different
     from the last mentioned, belongs principally to the nomadic races,
     who wander with their herds and flocks over vast plains, and to the
     tribes who creep along the shores of the Icy Sea, and live partly
     by fishing, and in part on the flesh of their reindeers. These
     nations have broad and lozenge-formed faces, and what I have termed
     pyramidal skulls.

     "The Esquimaux, the Laplanders, Samoïedes, and Kamschatkans,
     belong to this department, as well as the Tartar nations--meaning
     the Mongolians, Tungusians, and nomadic races of Turks. In South
     Africa, the Hottentots, formerly a nomadic people, who wandered
     about with herds of cattle over the extensive plains of Kafirland,
     resembling in their manner of life the Tungusians and the Mongols,
     have also broadfaced, pyramidal skulls, and in many particulars of
     their organization resemble the Northern Asiatics. Other tribes in
     South Africa approximate to the same character, as do many of the
     native races of the New World.

     "The most civilized races, those who live by agriculture and the
     arts of cultivated life, all the most intellectually improved
     nations of Europe and Asia, have a shape of the head which differs
     from both the forms above mentioned. The characteristic form of the
     skull among these nations may be termed oval or elliptical.

     "We shall find hereafter that there are numerous instances of
     transition from one of these shapes of the head to another, and
     that these alterations have taken place in nations who have changed
     their manner of life."

Blumenbach considered that the most important admeasurement of the skull was derivable from
the shape and size of the oval, seen when the skull was viewed from above, looking vertically
down upon it. Camper took as the basis of his theory of the gradations of different genera
of mammalia, the angle formed by a line drawn from the aperture of the ear to the base of the
nose, and a tangent to the forehead and jaw. Considering the increasing size of this angle
to be the distinctive mark of intellectual superiority, he viewed a negro as an intermediate
animal between an European and an ape. But Mr Owen has shown that the observations of Camper
and others, being applied to immature animals, are not worthy of reliance; as the relations
of all animals more closely approximate if they be examined in an infant, than in an adult
state. The facial angle of the orang, which has been estimated at from 60° to 64°, he finds
in the adult animal is only 30°--i. e. 40° short of the smallest facial angle in the human
race! We should hence be led to suspect a proportionate difference between the infant and adult
mind; but the psychological development of infants is a subject which has been strangely neglected
by philosophers. A clever Italian authoress who has written an anonymous work upon education,
gives as the reason for the dearth of writing on this subject, that philosophers are not mothers,
and that mothers are not philosophers. Be this as it may, few theorems appear to us more promising
of interest. The struggle of internal force with external resistance, the feelings manifested
in the acquisition of new powers, the impressions made by objects seen for the first time,
and first questions asked, form grounds for induction as to the psychology of man, which, thanks
to the chartered tyranny of nursery-maids over philosophers, have been grossly neglected.

After going through other points of physical difference in human races, with which, being for
the most part matter of anatomical detail, we shall not trouble our readers, Dr Prichard concludes:--

     "On surveying the facts which relate to difference in the shape of
     the body, and the proportions of parts in human races, we may
     conclude that none of these deviations amount to specific
     distinction. We may rest this conclusion on two arguments. First,
     that none of the differences in question exceed the limits of
     individual variety, or are greater than the diversities found
     within the circle of one nation or family. Secondly, the varieties
     of form in human races are by no means so considerable, in many
     points of view, as the instances of variation which are known to
     occur in different tribes of animals belonging to the same stock,
     there being scarcely one domesticated species which does not
     display much more considerable deviations from the typical
     character of the tribe."

The only observation we shall make upon this is, that, as before stated, the test of identity
of species being the power of continued reproduction, not the slightest evidence having been
ever offered that all the various human races have not inter se this power, but the contrary
having been proved in every case within human experience, none of the deviations can amount
to specific distinctions.

Having noticed the most remarkable physical distinctions of the human race, we come to its
ethnographical divisions--divisions founded partly upon traditional and historical records,
and partly upon the internal evidence of similarity of language. The following sketch of hypotheses,
as to the original birthplaces of the +autochthones gaias+, although visionary, and in all
probability incorrect, forms such an interesting abstract of philosophical speculations and
poetical myths, that we cannot refrain from quoting it:--

     "The most popular, or generally received distribution of human
     races in the present day, is that which was recommended by the
     adoption of Baron Cuvier. It did not entirely originate with that
     great writer, but was set forth by him in a more decided and
     complete manner than it had been before his time. This system
     refers different races of men to certain lofty mountain-chains, as
     the local seats of their original existence.

     "The birthplace, or the primitive station, of the race of men who
     peopled Europe and Western Asia, is supposed to have been Mount
     Caucasus. From this conjecture, Europeans and many Asiatic nations,
     and even some Africans, have received the new designation of
     Caucasians. The nations of Eastern Asia are imagined, in like
     manner, to originate in the neighbourhood of Mount Altaï, and they
     are named after the Mongolians, who inhabit the highest region in
     that vast chain of hills. The African negroes are derived from the
     southern face of the chain of Mount Atlas.

     "They are, however, named simply the Ethiopian race, from the
     Ethiopians, who were the only black people known to the ancients in
     very remote times. A mixture of somewhat vague notions, partly
     connected with physical theories, and in part derived from history,
     or rather from mythology, has formed the groundwork of this scheme,
     which refers the origin of human races to high mountainous tracts.
     The tops of mountains first emerged above the surface of the
     primeval ocean, and, in the language of some philosophical
     theorists, first became the scene of the organizing life of nature.
     From different mountain tops, Wildenow, and other writers on the
     history of plants, derive the vegetable tribes; which they suppose
     to have descended from high places into the plains, and to have
     spread their colonies along the margins of mountain streams. High
     mountains thus came to be regarded as the birthplaces of living
     races.

     "Geological theories give their part to render these notions
     popular; not only the late speculations of the Count de Buffon and
     the learned Bailly, but the opinions of ancient philosophers, who
     maintained, before the time of Justin and of Pliny, that the
     mountains of high Asia must have been the part of the world first
     inhabited by men, inasmuch as that region must have been first
     refrigerated in the gradual cooling of the surface of our planet,
     and first raised sufficiently above the level of the ocean.
     Moreover, the poetical traditions of the ancient world describe
     high mountains as the scenes of the first mythical adventures of
     gods and men--as the resting-places on which celestial or aërial
     beings alighted from their cloudy habitations, to take up their
     abode with men, and to become the patriarchs of the human race.
     Lofty mountains are the points in the geography of our globe on
     which the first dawn of historic light casts its early beams; hence
     the legends of the first ages begin their thread. In the cosmogony
     of the Hindoos, it was on the summit of the sacred mountain
     Maha-meru, which rises in the midst of the seven dwipas, or great
     peninsulas, like the stalk between the expanded petals of a lotus,
     that Brahma, the creator, sits enthroned on a pillar of gold and
     gems, adored by Rishis and Gandharbhas; while the regents of the
     four quarters of the universe hold their stations on the four faces
     of the mountain. Equally famed in the ancient mythology of Iran and
     of Zoroaster, is the sacred mountain Albordy, based upon the earth,
     but raising through all the spheres of heaven, to the region of
     supernal light, its lofty top, the seat of Ormuzd, whence the
     bridge Ishinevad conducts blessed spirits of pious men to Gorodman,
     the solid vault of heaven, the abode of Ferouers and Arnshaspands.
     Even the prosing disciples of Confucius had their sacred mountain
     of Kuen-lun, where, according to the legends of their forefathers,
     was the abode of the early patriarchs of their race. The Arabs and
     the Persian Moslemin had their poetical Kaf. The lofty hills of
     Phrygia and of Hellas--Ida, Olympus, Pindus--were, as every one
     knows, famous in Grecian story. Caucasus came in for a share of the
     reverence paid to the high places of the earth. Caucasus, however,
     was not the cradle of the human race, but the dwelling-place of
     Prometheus, the maker of men, and the teacher of astronomy."

Abandoning this somewhat dreamy view, Dr Prichard regards, consistently with the Scriptural
account, the birthplace of man as being on the banks of fertilizing rivers, and at a period
when the world was, by its vegetable and animal productions, prepared for his reception, and
adopts three divisions as being those of which we have the earliest records; 1st, the Semitic
or Syro-Arabian, inhabiting countries between Egypt and the Ganges. 2dly, the Japetic, Indo-European,
or Arian, spreading from the mouths of the Ganges over the greater part of Europe. And 3dly,
the Egyptian or Hamitish,{B} who peopled the banks of the Nile, and of whom the African negroes
are probably a degenerate offshoot. With regard to the knowledge of letters possessed by these
three nations, our author gives two inconsistent statements. He says:--

     "The three celebrated nations whose history we have surveyed,
     appear alone to have possessed in the earliest times the use of
     letters, and by written monuments to have transmitted to the last
     ages memorials of their existence. It seems improbable that each of
     these nations should have become, by a separate process, possessed
     of this important art: yet those eminent scholars who have laboured
     with so great success of late in elucidating the Oriental forms of
     writing, have not succeeded in tracing any connexion between the
     alphabetic systems of Egypt, of the Phoenicians, the Assyrians,
     and the Hindoos."

And states afterwards:--

     "It is plain that the use of letters was entirely unknown to the
     Arian nations, to those tribes at least of the race who passed into
     Europe: and that it was introduced among them in long after ages by
     the Phoenicians, who claim this most important invention, and
     certainly have the merit of having communicated it to the nations
     of the west."

The words "those tribes at least," are scarcely sufficient to remove the inconsistency.

A fourth division comprehends those various barbarous nations of unknown origin which occupied
the territories surrounding the Indo-European race, and were for the most part subdued and
expelled by the latter--to this fourth division he applies the term Allophyllian.

This glotto-historical division does not exactly correspond with the physical division as deduced
from the form of the skull. The three nations first above mentioned, or the inhabitants of
the central regions, from which they at least are supposed, according to this view, to have
emanated, have all the oval skull; though, when we pass to the nomadic people of high Asia,
we get the pyramidal, and, passing from Egypt to Africa, we get a gradually increasing tendency
to the prognathous form.

It would carry us far beyond the usual bounds of an article in this Magazine, were we to give
even a condensed abstract of the descriptions, individual and collective, of each of these
leading divisions and their various subdivisions. We will observe generally that the central
portion of the work, which contains a detailed account of the divisions physical, ethical,
and ethnical, of all the most marked varieties of the human race, accompanied with illustrative
pictures and woodcuts, evinces the most elaborate research, and, as a work of reference, will
be doubtless found of great value. We will, therefore, pass to the fifth great division of
the human race, which is discussed in a later portion of the work, and which is not very distinctly
connected with the other four--viz. the American. The Sioux tribes, however, who occupy tracts
of land on the Upper Mississippi, are supposed with great probability, from their physical
character, language, and tradition, to be the descendants of a Tartar race, who have emigrated
across the north-west straits of America.

     "The aboriginal people of America are generally considered as a
     department of the human family very distinct from the inhabitants
     of the Old World. The insulated situation of the continent, and the
     fact that it was so long unknown, and the tribes which it contains
     so long cut off from intercourse with other nations, are among the
     circumstances which have contributed to produce this impression.
     The American nations, taken in the aggregate, are neither among
     themselves so uniform and unvaried in the physical and moral
     qualities, nor is the line of distinction between them and the rest
     of mankind so strongly marked and so obvious, as most persons
     imagine. Yet it must be admitted that certain characters are
     discoverable which are common, or nearly so, to the whole of this
     department of nations; that there are strong indications, if not
     proofs, of a community of origin, or of very ancient relationship
     among them; and that in surveying collectively the people of the
     New World, we contemplate human nature under a peculiar aspect. On
     comparing the American tribes together, we find reasons to believe
     that they must have subsisted as a separate department of nations
     from the earliest ages of the world. Hence, in attempting to trace
     relations between them and the rest of mankind, we cannot expect to
     discover proofs of their derivation from any particular tribe or
     nation in the Old Continent. The era of their existence, as a
     distinct and insulated race, must probably be dated as far back as
     that time which separated into nations the inhabitants of the Old
     World, and gave to each branch of the human family its primitive
     language and individuality."

And, 2dly, their moral and social state, indicating a people which has anciently possessed
institutions of a highly civilized character, such as, according to Dr Martius--

     "A complicated form of government, regulated despotisms or
     monarchies, privileged orders, hierarchical and sacerdotal
     ordinances, systematic laws, the results of reflection, and a
     settled purpose, connected with marriage and inheritance, and
     family relationships, and other customs, which are strongly
     contrasted with the simple and unreflective habits of rude and
     uncivilized nations.

     "The languages of these nations abound, as he says, with words
     expressive of metaphysical views and abstract conceptions. Their
     opinion respecting a future state, the nature and attributes of
     invisible agents, are strikingly different from those of nations
     who have never emerged from primitive barbarism. Another fact which
     tends, as M. Martius observes, to confirm the opinion that natives
     of the New World have fallen from a state of greater refinement, is
     their use, from immemorial ages, of certain domesticated animals
     and cultivated plants, and the notions which they entertained of
     the first acquisition of these possessions. Of such animals and
     plants the people of the Old World have their peculiar stock, and
     the American nations have their own entirely different.

     "In the Old World we know not whence our horses, our dogs, cattle,
     and the various kinds of cerealian gramina were obtained, and the
     American nations are equally at a loss, when we enquire for the
     original stock of the dumb dog of the Mexicans, the llama, the root
     of the mandioca, the American corn, and of the quinoa.

     "In the ancient world there were traditions of some mythical
     benefactors of mankind. Ceres, Triptolemus, Bacchus, Pallas, and
     Poseidon, who had contributed their gifts, corn and wine, the
     sacred olive, and the horse, and we infer that all these had been
     known from periods of remote antiquity.

     "In America, likewise, tradition refers the knowledge of cultivated
     plants and domestic animals, and the art of tilling the earth, to
     some fabulous person who descended from the gods, or suddenly made
     his appearance among their ancestors, such as the Manco-Capac of
     the Peruvians, and the Xolotl and the Xiuhtlato of the Tollecas and
     Chicimecas.

     "The remains of ancient sculpture and architecture spread over
     Mexico, Yucatan, and Chiapa, as well as over the high plain of
     Quito and other parts of South America, and the extensive works of
     art, consisting of fortifications and other relics, discovered in
     the Tenessi country, as well as in the inland parts of New Mexico
     on the Rio Gila, afford some further support to the hypothesis of
     M. Martius.

     "The possession of arts and acquirements, the most simple
     improvements of human life, and such as belong to the very infancy
     of human society, distinctively appropriate, and the origin of
     which is recorded by mythical legends peculiar to each division of
     mankind, seems to carry back the era of their separation to the
     first ages of the world."

With regard to the physical character of the Americans, it appears, according to Dr Martius,
that the principal characteristic is the truncation, or flatness, of the occipital portion
of the cranium; the forehead wide, but low, supposed upon rather insufficient data to be moulded
to this shape by artificial means; and the nose arched. In the new as in the old continent,
the diversities of physical character do not correspond with the ethnical divisions. The principal
criterion of the latter adopted by Dr Prichard is the affinity of languages; and, when this
is insufficient to found any probable opinions, conjectures derived from geographical or traditional
evidence are called in aid. Upon these grounds the Americans are arranged and described by
the author, into the details of which, for the same reason as before stated, we regret not
being able to follow him.

Since, however, the first pages of this article were written, a discovery has been announced
connected with the physiology of the American aborigenes, which, if subsequently verified,
will be of much importance, both as to the anthropological classification of the Americans,
and as to the natural history of man generally. In a letter addressed to the Academy of Natural
Sciences of Philadelphia, and republished in the Philosophical Magazine for July last, is an
account of the researches of Dr Lund, who has been for some time engaged in geological investigation
in Minas Geraes, a province of Brazil. While examining the caverns of calcareous rocks, he
has found in one of them, mixed with the bones of extinct races of animals, human bones, having
all the character of fossils; they are stated to be in part petrified, and in part penetrated
with iron particles, which gave to them a metallic lustre resembling bronze; they were of extraordinary
weight; the crania presented the narrow forehead, prominent zygomatic bones, the facial angle,
the maxillary and orbital conformation of the American race. The depression of the forehead
in many instances is said to amount to a total disappearance. With the bones was found a smooth
stone, about ten inches in circumference, apparently intended to bruise seeds or hard substances.
In other caverns were found human bones, but unaccompanied with those of other animals. These
facts, if confirmed, will furnish us with most important evidence as to the past state of the
Americans, and the ancient history and physiology of the human race; but the novelty of the
results, and the recent date of the communication, induce us to abstain from hasty comment.

The general physiological comparison of human races, the similarity of periodic changes, and
the average duration of life, are points upon which we can very briefly touch. Dr Prichard
considers the different ages at which women are said to be marriageable in different climates
to be very much exaggerated. He states his reasons, which do not appear to us to be very conclusive.
The exceptional cases from the normal physiology would be more interesting, had we space for
them, than the analogies, for which probably all our readers would be prepared. Thus, among
the most curious national anomalies are the Quichuas and Aymaras, who, from the constant habit
of breathing an attenuated atmosphere, have their chests enormously expanded; the Mandans,
who, without any apparent cause, have the hair grizzled or grey in youth. Among the instances
of individual peculiarity, no one is more extraordinary than the horned man, whose entire person
was covered with a rugged bark, or hide, having bristles here and there, which hide he was
said to shed annually; and this peculiar form of monstrosity appears to have been capable of
hereditary transmission, as he had six children with a similar covering. How he procured a
wife to bear these children to him does not appear. The children were, it is to be presumed,
not equally successful, as the breed of these human rhinoceri has become extinct. Some curious
instances of longevity are collected. Of 15 negroes, the names and residences of whom are given,
the average age is 135 years; from European nations, there are 1310 recorded instances of persons
aged from 100 to 110, and 3 from 180 to 190. We do no more than briefly notice these exceptions,
as we are anxious to devote our small remaining space to what will by many be considered the
most interesting portions of the book, viz. the author's psychological view of the different
races of mankind, or the comparison of their different mental faculties.

     "Though inhabiting, from immemorial times, regions in
     juxtaposition, and almost contiguous to each other, no two races of
     men can be more strongly contrasted than were the ancient Egyptian
     and Syro-Arabian races; one nation, full of energy, of restless
     activity, changing many times their manner of existence--sometimes
     nomadic, feeding their flocks in desert places--now settled, and
     cultivating the earth, and filling their land with populous
     villages, and towns, and fenced cities--then spreading themselves,
     impelled by the love of glory and zeal of proselytism, over distant
     countries; the other, reposing ever in luxurious ease and wealth on
     the rich soil, watered by their slimy river, never quitting it for
     a foreign clime or displaying, unless forced, the least change in
     their position or habits of life. The
     destiny of the two races has been equally different: both may be
     said still to exist; one in their living representatives, their
     ever-roving, energetic descendants; the other reposing in their own
     land--a vast sepulchre, where the successive generations of thirty
     centuries, all embalmed, men, women, and children, with their
     domestic animals, lie beneath their dry preserving soil, expecting
     vainly the summons to judgment--the fated time for which is to some
     of them long past--before the tribunal of Sarapis, or in the hall
     of Osymandyas."

We are far from agreeing with this estimate of the ancient Egyptians. Their progress in mechanical
arts, their hieroglyphical literature, and even their theology, with its mystic trine, marked
them as a people far surpassing their contemporaries; and they were not the less great because
their greatness is now extinct. The Arian{C} tribes, though unskilled in many of the most useful
arts of life, yet had--

     "National poetry, and a culture of language and thought, altogether
     surprising when compared with their external condition and habits.
     They had bards or scalds, vates, who were supposed, under divine
     impulse, to celebrate the history of ancient times, and connect
     them with revelations of the future, and with a refined and
     metaphysical system of dogmas, which were handed down from age to
     age, and from one tribe to another, as the primeval creed and
     possession of the enlightened race. Among them in the West, as
     well as in the remote East, the doctrine of metempsychosis held a
     conspicuous place, implying belief in an after state of rewards and
     punishment, and a moral government of the world. With it was
     connected the notion that the material universe had undergone, and
     was destined to undergo, a repetition of catastrophes by fire and
     water; and after each destruction, to be renewed in fresh beauty,
     when a golden age was again to commence, destined in a fated time
     to corruption and decay. The emanation of all beings from the soul
     of the universe, and their refusion in it, which were tenets
     closely connected with this system of dogmas, border on a species
     of Pantheism, and are liable to all the difficulties attendant upon
     that doctrine.

     "Among most of the Indo-European nations, the conservation of
     religious dogmas, patriarchal tradition, and national poetry, was
     confided, not to accidental reminiscences and popular recitations,
     but to a distinct order of persons, who were venerated as mediators
     between the invisible powers and their fellow mortals, as the
     depositories of sacred lore, and interpreters of the will of the
     gods, expressed of old to the first men, and handed down, either
     orally in divine poems, or preserved in a sacred literature, known
     only to the initiated. In most instances they were an hereditary
     caste, Druids, Brahmans, or Magi.

     "Among the Allophylian nations, on the other hand a rude and
     sensual superstition prevailed, which ascribed life and mysterious
     powers to the inanimate objects. The religion of fetisses, of
     charms, and spells and talismans, was in the hands not of a learned
     caste, the twice-born sons of Brama, but of shamans or sorcerers,
     who, by feigning swoons and convulsions, by horrible cries and
     yells, by cutting themselves with knives, by whirling and
     contortions, assumed the appearance of something preternatural and
     portentous, and impressed the multitude with the belief that they
     were possessed by demons. Of this latter description were the
     wizards of the Finns and Lappes, the angekoks of the Esquimaux; and
     such are the shamans of all the countries in Northern Asia, where
     neither Buddhism nor Islamism has yet penetrated."

Of the American nations, the prevailing opinion, according to Loskiel, is--

     "'That there is one God, or, as they call him, one Great and Good
     Spirit.' It seems, from the testimony of this writer, which is
     supported by the evidence of all those who have conversed with the
     aboriginal nations of North America, that the conceptions of these
     nations respecting the Deity are much more complete and
     philosophical than those of the most savage people in the Old
     Continent. They suppose him literally to be the creator of heaven
     and earth, of men and all other creatures; they represent him as
     almighty, and able to do as much good as he pleases; 'nor do they
     doubt that he is kindly disposed towards men, because he imparts
     power to plants to grow, causes rain and sunshine, and gives fish
     and venison to man for his support;' these gifts, however, to the
     Indians exclusively. 'They are convinced that God requires of them
     to do good, and to eschew evil.' We may observe that, in these
     particulars, the Americans resemble the Northern Asiatics. We are
     assured by the late traveller, M. Erman, on the authority of the
     metropolitan Philophei, who lived among the Ostiaks on the Oby,
     that these people had, before Christian missionaries ever came
     among them, a belief in the existence of a Supreme Deity, of whose
     nature they had pure and exalted ideas, and to whom they affirmed
     that they never made offerings, nor had they represented his form;
     while to inferior gods, and particularly to Oertidk, who was a sort
     of mediator, and whose name, as it was preserved among the Magyars,
     Oerdig, was used by the monks as a designator for the devil, they
     made divers gifts; they performed before his image dances, which
     Erman, who visited the Kolushians on the Sitcka, declares to be
     precisely similar to the war-dances of those Americans. Some of the
     American people make images of the Manittos.

     "Besides the Supreme Deity, the American nations believe in a
     number of inferior spirits, whom the Delaware Indians term
     Manittos; they are both good and evil. 'From the accounts of the
     oldest Indians,' says Loskiel, 'it appears that when war was in
     contemplation, they used to admonish each other to hearken to the
     good, and not to evil spirits--the former always recommending
     peace.' They had formerly no notion of a devil, or evil being, in
     the Christian or Eastern sense of the term, but readily adopted,
     according to Loskiel, such a belief from the white people. They
     have among them preachers, who pretend to have received
     revelations, and who dispute and teach different opinions. Some
     pretend to have travelled near to the dwelling of God, or near
     enough to hear the cocks crow, and see the smoke of the chimneys in
     heaven; others declare that no one ever knew the dwelling-place of
     God, but that the abode of the Good Spirit is above the blue sky,
     and that the road to it is the milky way--a notion, by the way,
     which Beausobre and others have traced in the remains of the
     Manicheans, and other Eastern philosophers. The Americans believe
     in the existence of souls distinct from bodies, and many of them in
     the transmigration of souls. According to Loskiel, they declare,
     'that Indians cannot die eternally; for even Indian corn is
     vivified, and rises again.' The general opinion among them is, that
     the souls of the good alone go to a place abounding in all earthly
     pleasures, while the wicked wander about dejected and melancholy.
     Like other nations, they had sacrifices. 'Sacrifices,' says
     Loskiel, 'made with a view to pacify God and the subordinate
     deities, are of a very ancient date among them, and considered in
     so sacred a light, that unless they are performed in a time and
     manner acceptable, illness, misfortune, and death would befall them
     and their families.' They offer on these occasions hares, bear's
     flesh, and Indian corn. Many nations have, besides other stated
     times of sacrifice, one principal festival in two years, when they
     sacrifice an animal, and make a point of eating the whole.

     "A small quantity of melted fat is poured by the oldest men into
     the fire, and in this the main part of the offering consists. The
     offerings are made to Manittos. The Manittos are precisely the
     Fetisses of the African nations, and of the Northern Asiatics. They
     are tutelary beings, often in visible forms. Every Indian has a
     guardian Manitto; one has the sun for his Manitto; one the moon;
     one has a dream, that he must make his Manitto an owl; one a
     buffalo. The Delawares had five festivals in the year, one in
     honour of fire, supposed to have been the parent of all the Indian
     nations. Like other nations, these people believed in the necessity
     of purification from guilt, by fasting and bodily mortification.
     Some underwent for this end the pain of being beaten with sticks
     from the sole of their feet to their head. 'Some gave the poor
     people vomits as the most expeditious mode.'

     "Like the Northern Asiatics, the American nations had, instead of a
     regular priesthood, jugglers or sorcerers, who pretended to have
     supernatural power and knowledge. They appear to conform in every
     respect to the schamans of the Siberians, and the Fetiss-seers of
     the African nations."

We have, in the above extracts, placed in juxtaposition the leading psychical characteristics
of the five divisions of mankind. There are some points in which the different races of man
seem, in their various superstitions and creeds, curiously agreed. The doctrine of sacrificial
atonement seems almost universally prevalent, and forms the basis of the various sacerdotal
institutions. The care of the dead is also another peculiarity, and one in which mankind appear,
from the earliest historical period, to have differed from other animals.

The susceptibility to receive the doctrines of Christianity is a circumstance of agreement
among the various races of mankind, from which the Bushmen of South Africa are the only exception;
and, viewing these as a branch of the Hottentots, this exception would seem to disappear--for
the latter have been converted. The following is the satisfactory account of the Hottentot
missionaries as to the moral effect of Christianity:--

     "It is the unvarying statement of these missionaries, deduced from
     the experience of a hundred years of patient service and laborious
     exertions among the rudest and most abject tribes of human beings;
     that the moral nature of man must be in the first instance
     quickened, the conscience awakened, and the better feelings of the
     heart aroused, by the motives which Christianity brings with it,
     before any improvement can be hoped for in the outward behaviour
     and social state; that the rudest savages have sufficient
     understanding to be susceptible of such a change; and that, when it
     has once taken place, all the blessings of civilization follow as a
     necessary result."

The gypsy tribe, of which Dr Prichard takes no notice, would seem to form an exception from
the great mass of mankind as to the absence of religious creed. The opinions and theories respecting
it we must leave, as it forms of itself a wide field for discussion; and, having fully occupied
the space allotted to us, we must here bring to a close our sketch of a work which, notwithstanding
the somewhat unreadable character of the central portion, has supplied to the public a valuable
collection of recorded facts, expressed for the most part in clear, untechnical language. We
have not entered into questions of contrast or similitude with the opinions of other authors.
Had we done so, we must have adopted a style of criticism interesting only to those who are
specially engaged in the subject, and so incapable of limitation that every paragraph would
serve for an article longer far than that which we have here written. Dr Prichard appears nowise
unwilling to refer to each author his due share of merit, and is by no means sparing of copious
extracts, taken with no partial view of supporting a theory. At the risk of being considered
only a compiler, he has, at all events, avoided any affectation of originality.

With regard to the proposition sought to be established by the author, the book before us does
not appear to be conclusive. The question as to the community of origin of mankind, viewed
purely as an inductive one, appears still involved in obscurity. On the one hand, the fact
of continual degeneration, resulting from the intermarriage of members of the same family,
would require for its explanation either a miraculous interference in the first periods of
human existence, or a gradual change in the constitution of man, whereby what once was harmless
has become injurious, when the necessity for it is removed; moreover, according to the evidence
contained in this book, the races of mankind cannot be traced backward to a single pair. But,
taking the three great divisions, the Semitic, the Hamitish, and the Japetic, as derived from
Shem, Ham, and Japhet, the various Allophyllian and American aborigines would appear to have
existed, and to have been spread over the world before the above nations overran it. On the
other hand, supposing that the mere power of reproduction be not of itself sufficient evidence
of identity of species, the similarity of physical formation, of periodic changes, and of psychical
instincts, are strongly corroborative of this evidence, and would of themselves lead to the
deduction of such identity. Upon the whole, we consider the merits of the work before us to
consist, not in the demonstration of a theorem, but in presenting to the reader a compendious
record of physical, historical, and psychological facts and relations. Viewed in this light,
it is an interesting contribution to ethnology; while the size of the book, the pictorial illustrations,
and the absence of unnecessary technicality, make it a convenient manual for the general reader.

FOOTNOTES:

{A} The Natural History of Man. By J. C. PRICHARD, M.D.

{B} The term Hamitish is not used by Dr Prichard; but as he gives no distinctive appellation
to his third division, we adopt that which has been used by Beke and others.

{C} The term Arian, used by Dr Prichard, is objectionable as having received a very different
application.

POEMS BY COVENTRY PATMORE.{A}

This is certainly an age of very merciful tendencies. The severity of the criminal laws has
been greatly abated; and, in conformity with the views of the legislature, we have, of late
years, been gradually relaxing the stringency of our critical code. Yet we question whether
the change has been productive of good, and whether the result can be said to have answered
the expectations either of government or of ourselves. We doubt whether crime has diminished
in consequence of the legislative clemency; and, in our own humble department, we are now convinced
that the mild method is not the best way of bringing singers to repentance. The experiment
has been fairly tried, and the numerous trashy publications put forth by the young writers
of the day, particularly in the poetical line, convince us that our mercy has been misplaced;
and that a little well-timed severity, and a few examples held up in terrorem, might have greatly
benefited the literary wellbeing of England. The "spirit of the age" might have been different
from what it is, if the just sentence of the law had been more frequently carried into effect.
Our timely strictures might not have kindled into song any masculine intellect, but they might
have prevented the temple of the Muses from being desecrated. They might have prevented the
appearance of such a publication as this. In the days of the knout, we believe that no such
volume as Mr Coventry Patmore's could have ventured to crawl out of manuscript into print.
While we admit, then, that we have to blame our own forbearance in some degree for its appearance,
we think it our duty to take this opportunity of amending our code of criticism, and shall
try the volume simply as it stands, and somewhat according to the good old principles of literary
jurisprudence.

We are further instigated to this act of duty by the laudatory terms in which the volume has
been hailed by certain contemporary journalists. Had Mr Patmore's injudicious friends not thought
proper to announce him to the world as the brightest rising star in the poetical firmament
of Young England, we would probably have allowed his effusions to die of their own utter insignificance.
But since they have acted as they have done, we too must be permitted to express our opinion
of their merits; and our deliberate judgment is, that the weakest inanity ever perpetrated
in rhyme by the vilest poetaster of any former generation, becomes masculine verse when contrasted
with the nauseous pulings of Mr Patmore's muse. Indeed, we question whether the strains of
any poetaster can be considered vile, when brought into comparison with this gentleman's verses.
His silly and conceited rhapsodies rather make us sigh for the good old times when all poetry,
below the very highest, was made up of artifice and conventionalism; when all poets, except
the very greatest, spoke a hereditary dialect of their own, which nobody else interfered with--counted
on their fingers every line they penned, and knew no inspiration except that which they imbibed
from Byssh's rhyming dictionary. True that there was then no life or spirit in the poetical
vocabulary--true that there was no nature in the delineations of our minor poets; but better
far was such language than the slip-slop vulgarities of the present rhymester--better far that
there should be no nature in poetry, than such nature as Mr Patmore has exhibited for the entertainment
of his readers.

The first poem in the volume, entitled "The River," is a tale of disappointed love, terminating
in the suicide of the lover. Poor and pointless as this performance is, it is by far the best
in the book. As Mr Patmore advances, there is a marked increase of silliness and affectation
in his effusions, which shows how sedulously he has cultivated the art of sinking in poetry;
and that the same adage which has been applied to vice, may be applied also to folly, "Nemo
repente fuit stultissimus." Never was there a richer offering laid on the shrine of the goddess
Stultia than the tale of Sir Hubert, with which the volume concludes. But our business at present
is with "The River."

The common practice of writers who deal with stories of love, whose "course never did run smooth,"
is to make their heroes commit suicide, on finding that the ladies whom they had wooed in vain
were married to other people. But in the poem before us, Mr Patmore improves upon this method;
he drowns his lover, Witchaire, because the lady, whom he had never wooed at all, does not
marry him, but gives her hand (why should she not?) to the man who sues for it. Did Witchaire
expect that the lady was to propose to him? The poem opens with some very babyish verses descriptive
of an "old manor hall":--

    "Its huge fantastic weather-vanes
      Look happy in the light;
    Its warm face through the foliage gleams,
      A comfortable sight."

And so on, until we are introduced to the lady of the establishment:--

    "That lady loves the pale Witchaire,
      Who loves too much to sue:
    He came this morning hurriedly,
      Then out her young blood flew;
    But he talk'd of common things, and so
      Her eyes are steep'd in dew."

The lady, finding that her lover continues to hang back, dries her tears, and very properly
gets married to another man. During the celebration of the ceremony, the poet recurs to his
hero, who has taken up his position in the park--

    "Leaning against an aged tree,
      By thunder stricken bare.

    "The moonshine shineth in his eye,
      From which no tear doth fall,
    Full of vacuity as death,
      Its slaty parched ball
    Fixedly, though expressionless,
      Gleams on the distant hall."

Witchaire then goes and drowns himself, in a river which "runneth round" the lady's property--a
dreadful warning to all young lovers "who love too much to sue."

On a fine day in the following summer, the poet brings the lady to the banks of this river.
His evident intention is, to raise in the reader's mind the expectation that she shall discover
her lover's body, or some other circumstance indicative of the fatal catastrophe. This expectation,
however, he disappoints. The only remarkable occurrence which takes place is, that the lady
does not find the corpse, nor does any evidence transpire which can lead her to suppose that
the suicide had ever been committed; and with this senseless and inconclusive conclusion the
reader is befooled.

The only incident which we ever heard of, at all rivaling this story in an abortive ending,
is one which we once heard related at a party, where the conversation turned on the singular
manner in which valuable articles thrown into the sea had been sometimes recovered, and restored
to their owners--the ring of Polycrates, which was found in the maw of a fish after having
been sunk in deep waters, being, as the reader knows, the first and most remarkable instance
of such recoveries. After the rest of the company had exhausted their marvellous relations,
the following tale was told as the climax of all such wonderful narratives; and it was admitted
on all hands that the force of surprise could no further go. We shall endeavour to versify
it, à la Patmore, conceiving that its issue is very similar to that of his story of "The River."

THE RING AND THE FISH.

    A lady and her lover once
      Were walking on a rocky beach:
    Soft at first, and gentle, was
      The music of their mutual speech,
    And the looks were gentle, too,
      With which each regarded each.

    At length some casual word occurr'd
      Which somewhat moved the lady's bile;
    From less to more her anger wax'd--
      How sheepish look'd her swain the while!--
    And now upon their faces twain
      There is not seen a single smile.

    A ring was on the lady's hand,
      The gift of that dumb-founder'd lover--
    In scorn she pluck'd it from her hand,
      And flung it far the waters over--
    Far beyond the power of any
      Duck or drag-net to recover.

    Remorse then smote the lady's heart
      When she had thrown her ring away;
    She paceth o'er the rocky beach,
      And resteth neither night nor day;
    But still the burthen of her song
      Is, "Oh, my ring! my ring!" alway.

    Her lover now essays to soothe
      The dark compunctious visitings,
    That assail the lady's breast
      With a thousand thousand stings,
    For that she had thrown away
      This, the paragon of rings.

    But all in vain; at length one day
      A fisher chanced to draw his net
    Across the sullen spot that held
      The gem that made the lady fret,
    And caught about the finest cod
      That ever he had captured yet.

    He had a basket on his back,
      And he placed his booty in it;
    The lady's lover bought the fish,
      And, when the cook began to skin it,
    She found--incredible surprise!--
      She found the ring--was not within it.

The next tale, called "The Woodman's Daughter," is a story of seduction, madness, and child-murder.
These are powerful materials to work with; yet it is not every man's hand that they will suit.
In the hands of common-place, they are simply revolting. In the hands of folly and affectation,
their repulsiveness is aggravated by the simpering conceits which usurp the place of the strongest
passions of our nature. He only is privileged to unveil these gloomy depths of erring humanity,
who can subdue their repulsiveness by touches of ethereal feeling; and whose imagination, buoyant
above the waves of passion, bears the heart of the reader into havens of calm beauty, even
when following the most deplorable aberrations of a child of sin. Such a man is not Mr Patmore.
He has no imagination at all--or, what is the same thing, an imagination which welters in impotence,
far below the level of the emotions which it ought to overrule. The pitfalls of his tale of
misery are covered over with thin sprinklings of asterisks--the poorest subterfuge of an impoverished
imagination; and besotted indeed is the senselessness with which he disports himself around
their margin. Maud, the victim, is the daughter of Gerald, the woodman; and Merton, the seducer,
is the son of a rich squire in the neighbourhood. Maud used to accompany her father to his
employment in the woods.

    "She merely went to think she help'd;
      And whilst he hack'd and saw'd,
    The rich squire's son, a young boy then,
      For whole days, as if aw'd,
    Stood by, and gazed alternately
      At Gerald and at Maud.

    "He sometimes, in a sullen tone,
      Would offer fruits, and she
    Always received his gifts with an air,
      So unreserved and free,
    That half-feign'd distance soon became
      Familiarity.

    "Therefore in time, when Gerald shook
      The woods at his employ,
    The young heir and the cottage-girl
      Would steal out to enjoy
    The music of each other's talk--
      A simple girl and boy.

    "They pass'd their time, both girl and boy,
      Uncheck'd, unquestion'd; yet
    They always hid their wanderings
      By wood and rivulet,
    Because they could not give themselves
      A reason why they met.

    --It may have been in the ancient time,
      Before Love's earliest ban,
    Psychëan curiosity
      Had broken Nature's plan;
    When all that was not youth was age,
      And men knew less of Man;--

    "Or when the works of time shall reach
      The goal to which they tend,
    And knowledge, being perfect, shall
      At last in wisdom end--
    That wisdom to end knowledge--or
      Some change comes, yet unkenn'd;

    "It perhaps may be again, that men,
      Like orange plants, will bear,
    At once, the many fine effects
      To which God made them heir--
    Large souls, large forms, and love like that
      Between this childish pair.

    "Two summers pass'd away, and then--
      Though yet young Merton's eyes,
    Wide with their language, spake of youth's
      Habitual surprise--
    He felt that pleasures such as these
      No longer could suffice."

What the meaning of the three stanzas beginning with--

    "It may have been in the ancient time,"

may be, we are utterly at a loss to conjecture. We seek in vain to invest them with a shadow
of sense. Perhaps they are thrown in to redeem, by their profound unintelligibility, the shallow
trifling of the rest of the poem. But it was not enough for young Merton that the girl accepted
the fruits which he offered to her in a sullen tone. He had now reached the age so naturally
and lucidly described as the period of life when the "eyes, wide with their language, speak
of youth's habitual surprise," and he began to seek "new joys from books," communicating the
results of his studies to Maud, whose turn it now was to be surprised.

    "So when to-morrow came, while Maud
      Stood listening with surprise,
    He told the tale learnt over night,
      And, if he met her eyes,
    Perhaps said how far the stars were, and
      Talk'd on about the skies."

The effect of these lucid revelations upon the mind of Maud was very overpowering.

    "She wept for joy if the cushat sang
      Its low song in the fir;
    The cat, perhaps, broke the quiet with
      Its regular slow purr;
    'Twas music now, and her wheel gave forth
    A rhythm in its whirr.

    "She once had read, When lovers die,
      And go where angels are,
    Each pair of lover's souls, perhaps,
      Will make a double star;
    So stars grew dearer, and she thought
      They did not look so far.

    "But being ignorant, and still
      So young as to be prone
    To think all very great delights
      Peculiarly her own,
    She guess'd not what to her made sweet
      Books writ on lovers' moan."

And so the poem babbles on through several very sickly pages, in which the following descriptive
stanza occurs:--

    "The flat white river lapsed along,
      Now a broad broken glare,
    Now winding through the bosom'd lands,
      Till lost in distance, where
    The tall hills, sunning their chisell'd peaks,
      Made emptier the empty air."

During one of their ramblings, Maud becomes visibly embarrassed.

    "But Merton's thoughts were less confused:
      'What, I wrong ought so good?
    Besides, the danger that is seen
      Is easily withstood:'
    Then loud, 'The sun is very warm'--
      And they walk'd into the wood."

The wood consisting of a forest of as shady asterisks as the most fastidious lovers could desire.

    "Months pass'd away, and every day
      The lovers still were wont
    To meet together, and their shame
      At meeting had grown blunt;
    For they were of an age when sin
      Is only seen in front."

The father, however, who was also of an age to see sin in front, suspects that his daughter
is with child, and taxes her with it. Maud confesses her shame; upon which, as we are led to
conjecture, old Gerald dies broken-hearted--while the girl is safely delivered under a cloud
of asterisks. She is deterred from disclosing her situation to Merton, the father of the child--and
why? for this very natural reason, forsooth, that

    "He, if that were done,
      Could hardly fail to know
    The ruin he had caused, he might
      Be brought to share her woe,
    Making it doubly sharp."

