The passage, therefore, in Mr. Fennell's work does not seem to me to be incorrect, as it may
have reference to the shore of the Tweed, Ettrick, Yarrow, or some other rivers in Selkirkshire.

May I take the present opportunity of inquiring through your truly useful columns, when Mr.
Fennell's work on the natural history of Shakspeare, advertised some few years since, is likely
to appear?

ARCHIBALD FRASER.

Woodford.

"Vanitatem observare" (Vol. ix., pp. 247. 311.).--The quotation of R. H. G. is no more to be
found in the Canons of Laodicea than in those of Ancyra. Indeed the passage has more the appearance
of a recommendation, certainly excellent, than of any grave decree of a council. It can hardly
be supposed to bear any other meaning than that Christian females ought not to indulge vanity,
or take occasion to be vain of their works in wool, spun or woven; but to refer all their talent
to the Almighty, who gives to them the skill and ability to work. Here is evidently an allusion
to the skill and wisdom given to Beseleel and Ooliab:

    "Both of them hath he instructed with wisdom, to do ... tapestry and
    embroidery in blue and purple, {386} and scarlet twice dyed, and fine
    linen, and to weave all things, and to invent all things."--Exod. xxxv.
    35.

And Christian women are reminded that all their skill in such work is the gift of God. The
learned Benedictine Rupertus has a comment upon this passage of Exodus, so apposite that its
substance may appropriately conclude this Note:

    "Disce hinc, artes omnes, etiam mechanicas, esse dona Dei, saltem
    naturalia, neque in iis ut suis, suaque industria inventis aut partis,
    homini gloriandum esse (q. d. vanitatem observare), sed illas Deo
    adscribendas, ab eoque petendas, et in ejus obsequium expendendas
    esse."

F. C. HUSENBETH, D.D.

The passage which your correspondent R. H. G. quotes from the Council of Ancyra, A.D. 314,
is not to be found in the canons of that Council, which are printed in their original Greek,
with several Latin translations, in Labbe's Concilia, vol. ii. p. 513. The meaning of the sentence
does not seem very abstruse; but before any suggestion is made for its interpretation, it will
be desirable to ascertain to what Council it belongs.

L.

Divining Rod (Vol. viii., pp. 350. 400.).--Your correspondents do not tell us what was discovered
in the places to which the rod pointed in the hands of the ladies named; but although they
cannot for a moment be suspected of wilfully deceiving, may there not have been, as in table-turning,
an unconscious employment of muscular force? I have long since read, and have tried with success,
the following mode of producing the effect:--Holding the rod in the usual position, one branch
of the fork in each hand, and grasping them firmly, turn your hands slowly and steadily round
inwards, i. e. the right hand from the right to left, and the left from left to right--the
point of the rod will then gradually descend till it points directly downwards.

J. S. WARDEN.

Orange Blossoms (Vol. viii., p. 341.).--The compliment of Captain Absolute to Mrs. Malaprop
in The Rivals, contains, I have no doubt, the allegorical reason of the employment of these
flowers on bridal occasions; and in that view they seem highly appropriate, at least in our
colder climates--where we often see many "flowers" still on the parent stem, while the "fruit"
has attained its full perfection.

J. S. WARDEN. 605.).--Allow me to correct two mistakes with reference to the notes on this
subject. These MS. notes have been included in the recent reprint of this valuable work. In
the hurry of transcribing, Mr. Chappell (as your correspondent A. F. B. suggests) misread the
MS. note. In future we must read "hop drinkers," and not "hep drinkers."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

