"The township is the shield and nursery of individual freedom of thought and action. The young
citizen who has never dreamed of a political career becomes interested  in some local question
affecting his individual interests. A bridge is out of repair; a roadmaster has failed to perform
his duty; a constable has been remiss in his office; a justice of the peace has failed to hold
the scales with even balance between rich and poor; a school has not been properly cared for;
the funds of the township have been squandered; or the assumption of a liability is proposed
by the township trustees, the policy of which he doubts. He has the remedy in his own hands.
He goes to the township meeting, or he appears at the town-house upon election day, and appeals
to his own neighbors--those having like interests with himself.  He engages in the struggle,
hand to hand and foot to foot with his equals; he learns confidence in himself; he begins to
measure his own power, and fits himself for the higher duties and responsibilities of statesmanship."

"Well, well," laughed Goodspeed, "there is something  in that. I remember that iny first political
experience  was in trying to defeat a supervisor who did not properly work the roads of his
district; but I had never thought that in so doing I was illustrating such a doctrine  as you
have put forth."

"No; the doctrine is not mine," said Le Moyne.  "Others, and especially that noted French political
philosopher who so calmly and faithfully investigated our political system--the author of 'Democracy
in America'--clearly pointed out, many years ago, the exceptional  value of this institution,
and attributed to it the superior intelligence and prosperity of the North."

"Then," was the good-natured reply, "your prescription  for the political regeneration of the
South is the same as that which we all laughed at as coming from Horace Greeley immediately
upon the downfall of the Confederacy--that the Government should send an army of surveyors
to the South to lay off the land in sections and quarter-sections, establish parallel roads,
and enforce  topographic uniformity upon the nation?

"Not at all," said Le Moyne. "I think that the use of the term 'township' in a double sense
has misled our political thinkers in estimating its value. It is by no means necessary that
the township of the United States survey should be arbitrarily established in every state.
In fact, the township system really finds its fullest development  where such a land division
does not prevail, as in New England, Pennsylvania, and other states.  It is the people that
require to be laid off in townships,  not the land. Arkansas, Missouri, Alabama, all have their
lands laid off in the parallelograms prescribed by the laws regulating United States surveys;
but their people are not organized into self-governing communes."

"But was there no equivalent system of local self-government in those states?"

"No; and there is not to-day. In some cases there are lame approaches to it; but in none of
the former slave States were the counties made up of self-governing subdivisions. The South
is to-day and always has been a stranger to local self-government. In many of those states
every justice of the peace, every school committeeman, every inspector of elections is appointed
by some central power in the county, which is in turn itself appointed  either by the Chief
Executive of the State or by the dominant party in the Legislature. There may be the form of
townships, but the differential characteristic is lacking--the self-governing element of the
township."

"I don't know that I fully comprehend you," said Goodspeed. "Please illustrate."

"Well, take one state for an example, where the constitution adopted during the reconstruction
period introduced  the township system, and authorized the electors of each township to choose
their justices of the peace, constables, school-cominitteemen, and other local officials. 
It permitted the people of the county to choose a board of commissioners, who should administer
the financial matters of the county, and, in some instances, exeicise a limited judicial authority.
But now they have, in effect, returned to the old system. The dominant party in the Legislature
appoints every justice of the peace in the state. The justices of the peace of each county
elect from their number the county commissioners; the county commissioners appoint the school-committeemen,
the roadmasters, the registrars of election and the judges of election; so that every local
interest throughout the entire  state is placed under the immediate power and control of the
dominant party, although not a tenth part of the voters of any particular township or county
may belong to that party. In another state all this power, and even more, is exercised by the
Chief Executive; and in all of them you will find that the county--or its equivalent,  the
parish--is the smallest political unit having a municipal character."

CHAPTER LXII.

HOW?

There was a moment of silence, after which the Northern  man said thoughtfully.

"I think I understand your views, Mr. Le Moyne, and must admit that both the facts and the
deductions which you make from them are very interesting, full of food for earnest reflection,
and, for aught I know, may fully bear out your view of their effects. Still, I cannot see that
your remedy for this state of affairs differs materially in its practicability from that of
the departed philosopher of Chappaqua. He prescribed a division  of the lands, while, if I
understand you, you would have the Government in some way prescribe and control  the municipal
organisations of the people of the various states. I cannot see what power the National Government
has, or any branch of it, which could effectuate  that result."

"It can only be done as it was done at the North," said Le Moyne quietly.

"Well, I declare!" said Goodspeed, with an outburst  of laughter, "your riddle grows worse
and worse--more and more insoluble to my mind. How, pray, was it done at the North? I always
thought we got it from colonial times. I am sure the New England town-meeting came over in
the Mayflower."

"So it did!" responded Hesden, springing to his feet; "so it did; it came over in the hearts
of men who demanded, and were willing to give up everything else to secure the right of local
self-government. The little colony upon the Mayflower was a township, and every man of its
passengers carried the seed of the ideal township  system in his heart."

"Admitted, admitted, Mr. Le Moyne," said the other, smiling at his earnestness. "But how shall
we repeat the experiment? Would you import men into every township of the South, in order that
they might carry the seeds of civil liberty with them, and build up the township system there?"

"By no means. I would make the men on the spot.  I would so mold the minds of every class of
the Southern people that all should be indoctrinated with the spirit of local self-government."

"But how would you do it?"

"With spelling-books!" answered Hesden sententiously.

"There we are," laughed the other, "at the very point we started from. Like the poet of the
Western  bar-room, you may well say, my friend, 'And so I end as I did begin.'"

"Yes," said Le Moyne, "we have considered the desirability of education, and you have continually
cried, with good-natured incredulity, 'How shall it be done?' Are you not making that inquiry
too soon?"

"Not at all," said the Congressman earnestly; "I see how desirable is the result, and I am
willing to do anything  in my power to attain it, if there is any means by which it can be
accomplished."

"That is it," said Le Moyne; "you are willing; you recognize that it would be a good thing;
you wish it might be done; you have no desire to stand in the way of its accomplishment. That
is not the spirit which achieves results. Nothing is accomplished by mere assent.  The American
people must first be thoroughly satisfied that it is a necessity. The French may shout over
a red cap, and overturn existing systems for a vague idea; but American conservatism consists
in doing nothing  until it is absolutely necessary. We never move until the fifty-ninth minute
of the eleventh hour.

"Only think of it! You fought a rebellion, based professedly upon slavery as a corner-stone,
for almost two years before you could bring yourselves to disturb that corner-stone. You knew
the structure would fall if that were done; but the American people waited and waited until
every man was fully satisfied that there was no other possible road to success. It is just
so in this matter. I feel its necessity. You do not.'

"There I think you do me injustice," said Goodspeed,  "I feel the necessity of educating every
citizen of the Republic, as well as you."

"No doubt, in a certain vague way," was the reply; "but you do not feel it as the only safety
to the Republic  to-day; and I do."

"I confess I do not see, as you seem to, the immediate  advantage, or the immediate danger,
more than that which has always threatened us," answered the Congressman.

"This, after all, is the real danger, I think," said Le Moyne. "The states containing only
one third of the population of this Union contain also more than two thirds of its entire illiteracy.
Twenty-five out of every hundred--one out of every four--of the white voters of the former
slave states cannot read the ballots which they cast; forty-five per cent of the entire voting
strength of those sixteen states are unable to read or write."

"Well?" said the other calmly, seeing Le Moyne look at him as though expecting him to show
surprise.

"Well!" said Le Moyne. "I declare your Northern phlegm is past my comprehension.--'Well,' indeed!
it seems to me as bad as bad can be. Only think of it--only six per cent of intelligence united
with this illiterate vote makes a majority!"

"Well?" was the response again, still inquiringly.

"And that majority," continued Le Moyne, "would choose seventy-two per cent of the electoral
votes necessary  to name a President of the United States!"

"Well," said the other, with grim humor, "they are not very likely to do it at present, anyhow."

"That is true," replied Le Moyne. "But there is still the other danger, and the greater evil.
That same forty-five per cent are of course easily made the subjects of fraud or violence,
and we face this dilemma: they may either use their power wrongfully, or be wrongfully deprived
of the exercise of their ballotorial rights. Either alternative is alike dangerous. If we suppose
the illiterate voter to be either misled or intimidated, or prevented from exercising his judgment
and his equality of right with others in the control of our government, then we have the voice
of this forty-five per cent silenced--whether by intimidation or by fraud matters not. Then
a majority  of the remaining fifty-four per cent, or, say, twenty-eight per cent of one third
of the population of the Nation in a little more than one third of the States, might exercise
seventy-two per cent of the electoral power necessary to choose a President, and a like proportion
of the legislative  power necessary to enact laws. Will the time ever come, my friend, when
it will be safe to put in the way of any party such a temptation as is presented by this opportunity
to acquire power?"

"No, no, no," said the Northern man, with impatience.  "But what can you do? Education will
not make men honest, or patriotic, or moral."

"True enough," was the reply. "Nor will the knowledge of toxicology prevent the physician from
being  a poisoner, or skill in handwriting keep a man from becoming a forger. But the study
of toxicology will enable the physician to save life, and the study of handwriting is a valuable
means of preventing the results of wrongful acts. So, while education does not make the voter
honest, it enables him to protect himself against the frauds of others, and not only increases
his power but inspires him to resist violence. So that, in the aggregate, you Northerners are
right in the boast which you make that intelligence makes a people stronger and braver and freer."

"So your remedy is--" began the other.

"Not my remedy, but the only remedy, is to educate the people until they shall be wise enough
to know what they ought to do, and brave enough and strong enough to do it."

"Oh, that is all well enough, if it could be done," said Goodspeed.

"Therefore it is," returned Hesden, "that it must be done."

"But how?" said the other querulously. "You  know that the Constitution gives the control of
such matters  entirely to the States. The Nation cannot interfere with it. It is the duty of
the States to educate their citizens--a clear and imperative duty; but if they will not do
it the Nation cannot compel them."

"Yes," said Hesden, "I know. For almost a century you said that about slavery; and you have
been trying to hunt a way of escape from your enforced denial of it ever since. But as a matter
of fact, when you came to the last ditch and found no bridge across, you simply made one. When
it became an unavoidable question whether the Union or slavery should live, you chose the Union.
The choice may come between the Union and ignorance; and if it does, I have no fear as to which
the people will choose. The doctrine of State Rights is a beautiful thing to expatiate upon,
but it has been the root of nearly all the evil the country has suffered.  However, I believe
that this remedy can at once be applied without serious inconvenience from that source."

"How?" asked the other; "that is what I want to know."

"Understand me," said Le Moyne; "I do not consider the means so important as the end. When
the necessity is fully realized the means will be discovered; but I believe that we hold the
clue even now in our hands."

"Well, what is it?" was the impatient inquiry.

"A fund of about a million dollars," said Le Moyne, "has already been distributed to free public
schools in the South, upon a system which does not seriously interfere  with the jealously-guarded
rights of those states."

"You mean the Peabody Fund?"

"Yes; I do refer to that act of unparalleled beneficence  and wisdom."

"But that was not the act of the Nation."

"Very true; but why should not the Nation distribute a like bounty upon the same system? It
is admitted, beyond serious controversy, that the Nation may raise and appropriate funds for
such purposes among the different states, provided it be not for the exclusive benefit of any
in particular. It is perhaps past controversy that the Government might distribute a fund to
the different states in the proportion of illiteracy. This, it is true, would give greater
amounts to certain states than to others, but only greater in proportion to the evil to be
remedied."

"Yes," said the other; "but the experience of the Nation in distributing lands and funds for
educational purposes has not been encouraging. The results have hardly been commensurate with
the investment."

"That is true," said Hesden, "and this is why I instance  the Peabody Fund. That is not given
into the hands of the officers of the various states, but when a school is organized and fulfills
the requirements laid down for the distribution of that fund, in regard to numbers and average
attendance--in other words, is shown to be an efficient institution of learning--then the managers
of the fund give to it a sum sufficient to defray a certain proportion of its expenses."

"And you think such a system might be applied to a Government appropriation?"

"Certainly. The amount to which the county, township,  or school district would be entitled
might be easily ascertained, and upon the organization and maintenance of a school complying
with the reasonable requirements of a well-drawn statute in regard to attendance and instruction,
such amount might be paid over."

"Yes," was the reply, after a thoughtful pause; "but would not that necessitate a National
supervision of State schools?"

"To a certain extent, yes. Yet there would be nothing  compulsory about it. It would only be
such inspection  as would be necessary to determine whether the applicant  had entitled himself
to share the Nation's bounty.  Surely the Nation may condition its own bounty."

"But suppose these states should refuse to submit to such inspection, or accept such appropriation?"

"That is the point, exactly, to which I desire to bring your attention," said Le Moyne. "Ignorance,
unless biased by religious bigotry, always clamors for knowledge.  You could well count upon
the forty-five per cent of ignorant voters insisting upon the reception of that bounty. The
number of those that recognize the necessity  of instructing the ignorant voter, even in those
states, is hourly increasing, and but a brief time would elapse until no party would dare to
risk opposition to such a course. I doubt whether any party would venture upon it, even now."

"But are not its results too remote, Mr. Le Moyne, to make such a measure of present interest
in the cure of present evils?"

"Not at all," answered Hesden. "By such a measure  you bring the purest men of the South into
close and intimate relations with the Government. You cut off the sap which nourishes the yet
living root of the State Rights dogma. You bring every man to feel as you feel, that there
is something greater and grander than his State and section. Besides that, you draw the poison
from the sting which rankles deeper than you think. The Southern white man feels, and justly
feels, that the burden  of educating the colored man ought not to be laid upon the South alone.
He says truly, 'The Nation fostered and encouraged slavery; it gave it greater protection and
threw greater safeguards around it than any other kind of property; it encouraged my ancestors
and myself to invest the proceeds of generations of care and skill and growth in slaves. When
the war ended it not only at one stroke dissipated all these accumulations, but it also gave
to these men the ballot, and would now drive me, for my own protection, to provide for their
education.  This is unjust and oppressive. I will not do it, nor consent that it shall be done
by my people or by our section alone.' To such a man--and there are many thousands of them--such
a measure would come as an act of justice. It would be a grateful balm to his outraged feelings,
and would incline him to forget, much more readily than he otherwise would, what he regards
to be the injustice of emancipation. It will lead him to consider  whether he has not been
wrong in supposing that the emancipation and enfranchisement of the blacks proceeded from a
feeling of resentment, and was intended as a punishment merely. It will incline him to consider
whether the people of the North, the controlling power of the Government at that time, did
not act from a better motive than he has given them credit for. But even if this plan should
meet with disapproval, instead of approval,  from the white voters of the South, it would still
be the true and wise policy for the Nation to pursue."

"So you really think," said the Northerner dubiously, "that such a measure would produce good
results even in the present generation?"

