Miss Bradley has illustrated one of Messrs. Blackie's happiest volumes this year. "Just Forty
Winks" (from which one picture is reproduced here), shows that the artist has steered clear
of the "Alice in Wonderland" model, which the author can hardly be said to have avoided. Miss
Bradley has also illustrated the prettily decorated book of poems, "Songs for Somebody," by
Dollie Radford (Nutt). The two series of "Children's Singing Games" (Nutt) are among the most
pleasant volumes the Birmingham school has produced. Both are decorated by Winifred Smith,
who shows considerable humour as well as ingenuity.

Among volumes illustrated, each by the members of the Birmingham school, are "A Book of Pictured
Carols" (George Allen), and Mr. Baring-Gould's "Nursery Rhymes" (Methuen). Both these volumes
contain some of the most representative work of Birmingham, and the latter, with its rich borders
and many pictures, is a book that consistently maintains a very fine ideal, rare at any time,
and perhaps never before applied to a book for the nursery. Indeed were it needful to choose
a single book to represent the school, this one would stand the test of selection.

In Messrs. Dent's "Banbury Cross" series, the Misses Violet and Evelyn Holden illustrated "The
House that Jack Built"; Sidney Heath was responsible for "Aladdin," and Mrs. H. T. Adams decorated
"Tom Thumb, &c."

Mr. Laurence Housman is more than an illustrator of fairy tales; he is himself a rare creator
of such fancies, and has, moreover, an almost unique power of conveying his ideas in the medium.
His "Farm in Fairyland" and "A House of Joy" (both published by Kegan Paul and Co.) have often
been referred to in THE STUDIO. Yet, at the risk of reiterating what nobody of taste doubts,
one must place his work in this direction head and shoulders above the crowd--even the crowd
of excellent illustrators--because its amazing fantasy and caprice are supported by cunning
technique that makes the whole work a "picture," not merely a decoration or an interpretation
of the text. As a spinner of entirely bewitching stories, that hold a child spell-bound, and
can be read and re-read by adults, he is a near rival of Andersen himself.

H. Granville Fell, better known perhaps from his decorations to "The Book of Job," and certain
decorated pages in the English Illustrated Magazine, illustrated three of Messrs. Dent's "Banbury
Cross" series--"Cinderella, &c.," "Ali Baba," and "Tom Hickathrift." His work in these is full
of pleasant fancy and charming types.

A very sumptuous setting of the old fairy tale, "Beauty and the Beast," in this case entitled
"Zelinda and the Monster" (Dent, 1895), with ten photogravures after paintings by the Countess
of Lovelace, must not be forgotten, as its text may bring it into our present category.

Miss Rosie Pitman, in "Maurice and the Red Jar" (Macmillan), shows much elaborate effort and
a distinct fantasy in design. "Undine" (Macmillan, 1897) is a still more successful achievement.

Richard Heighway is one of the "Banbury Cross" illustrators in "Blue Beard," &c. (Dent), and
has also pictured Æsop's "Fables," with 300 designs (in Macmillan's Cranford series).

Mr. J. F. Sullivan--who must not be confused with his namesake--is one who has rarely illustrated
works for little children, but in the famous "British Workman" series in Fun, in dozens of
Tom Hood's "Comic Annuals," and elsewhere, has provoked as many hearty laughs from the nursery
as from the drawing-room. In "The Flame Flower" (Dent) we find a side-splitting volume, illustrated
with 100 drawings by the author. For this only Mr. J. F. Sullivan has plunged readers deep
in debt, and when one recalls the amazing number of his delicious absurdities in the periodical
literature of at least twenty years past, it seems astounding to find that the name of so entirely
well-equipped a draughtsman is yet not the household word it should be.

E. J. Sullivan, with eighty illustrations to the Cranford edition of "Tom Brown's Schooldays,"
comes for once within our present limit.

J. D. Batten is responsible for the illustration of so many important collections of fairy
tales that it is vexing not to be able to reproduce a selection of his drawings, to show the
fertility of his invention and his consistent improvement in technique. The series, "Fairy
Tales of the British Empire," collected and edited by Mr. Jacobs, already include five volumes--English,
More English, Celtic, More Celtic, and Indian, all liberally illustrated by J. D. Batten, as
are "The Book of Wonder Voyages," by J. Jacobs (Nutt), and "Fairy Tales from the Arabian Nights,"
edited by E. Dixon, and a second series, both published by Messrs. J. M. Dent and Co. "A Masque
of Dead Florentines" (Dent) can hardly be brought into our subject.

Louis Davis has illustrated far too few children's books. His Fitzroy pictures show how delightfully
he can appeal to little people, and in "Good Night Verses," by Dollie Radford (Nutt), we have
forty pages of his designs that are peculiarly dainty in their quality, and tender in their
poetic interpretation of child-life.

"Wymps" (Lane, 1896), with illustrations by Mrs. Percy Dearmer, has a quaint straightforwardness,
of a sort that exactly wins a critic of the nursery.

J. C. Sowerby, a designer for stained glass, in "Afternoon Tea" (Warne, 1880), set a new fashion
for "æsthetic" little quartos costing five or six shillings each. This was followed by "At
Home" (1881), and "At Home Again" (1886, Marcus Ward), and later by "Young Maids and Old China."
These, despite their popularity, display no particular invention. For the real fancy and "conceit"
of the books you have to turn to their decorative borders by Thomas Crane. This artist, collaborating
with Ellen Houghton, contributed two other volumes to the same series, "Abroad" (1882), and
"London Town" (1883), both prime favourites of their day.

Lizzie Lawson, in many contributions for Little Folks and a volume in colours, "Old Proverbs"
(Cassell), displayed much grace in depicting children's themes.

Nor among coloured books of the "eighties" must we overlook "Under the Mistletoe" (Griffith
and Farran, 1886), and "When all is Young" (Christmas Roses, 1886); "Punch and Judy," by F.
E. Weatherley, illustrated by Patty Townsend (1885); "The Parables of Our Lord," really dignified
pictures compared with most of their class, by W. Morgan; "Puss in Boots," illustrated by S.
Caldwell; "Pets and Playmates" (1888); "Three Fairy Princesses," illustrated by Paterson (1885);
"Picture Books of the Fables of Æsop," another series of quaintly designed picture books, modelled
on Struwwlpeter; "The Robbers' Cave," illustrated by A. M. Lockyer, and "Nursery Numbers" (1884),
illustrated by an amateur named Bell, all these being published by Messrs. Marcus Ward and
Co., who issued later, "Where Lilies Grow," a very popular volume, illustrated in the "over-pretty"
style by Mrs. Stanley Berkeley. The attractive series of toy-books in colours, published in
the form of a Japanese folding album, were probably designed by Percy Macquoid, and published
by the same firm, who issued an oblong folio, "Herrick's Content," very pleasantly decorated
by Mrs. Houghton. R. Andre was (and for all I know is still) a very prolific illustrator of
children's coloured books. "The Cruise of the Walnut Shell" (Dean, 1881); "A Week Spent in
a Glass Pond" (Gardner, Darton and Co.); "Grandmother's Thimble" (Warne, 1882); "Pictures and
Stories" (Warne, 1882); "Up Stream" (Low, 1884); "A Lilliputian Opera" (Day, 1885); the Oakleaf
Library (six shilling volumes, Warne); and Mrs. Ewing's Verse Books (six vols. S.P.C.K.) are
some of the best known. T. Pym, far less well-equipped as a draughtsman, shows a certain childish
naïveté in his (or was it her?) "Pictures from the Poets" (Gardner, Darton and Co.); "A, B,
C" (Gardner, Darton and Co.); "Land of Little People" (Hildesheimer, 1886); "We are Seven"
(1880); "Children Busy" (1881); "Snow Queen" (Gardner, Darton and Co.); "Child's Own Story
Book" (Gardner, Darton and Co.).

Ida Waugh in "Holly Berries" (Griffith and Farran, 1881); "Wee Babies" (Griffith and Farran,
1882); "Baby Blossoms," "Tangles and Curls," and many other volumes mainly devoted to pictures
of babies and their doings, pleased a very large audience both here and in the United States.
"Dreams, Dances and Disappointments," and "The Maypole," both by Konstan and Castella, are
gracefully decorated books issued by Messrs. De La Rue in 1882, who also published "The Fairies,"
illustrated by [H?] Allingham in 1881. Major Seccombe in "Comic Sketches from History" (Allen,
1884), and "Cinderella" (Warne, 1882), touched our theme; a large number of more or less comic
books of military life and social satire hardly do so. Coloured books of which I have failed
to discover copies for reference, are: A. Blanchard's "My Own Dolly" (Griffith and Farran,
1882); "Harlequin Eggs," by Civilly (Sonnenschein, 1884); "The Nodding Mandarin," by L. F.
Day (Simpkin, 1883); "Cats-cradle," by C. Kendrick (Strahan, 1886); "The Kitten Pilgrims,"
by A. Ballantyne (Nisbet, 1887); "Ups and Downs" (1880), and "At his Mother's Knee" (1883),
by M. J. Tilsey. "A Winter Nosegay" (Sonnenschein, 1881); "Pretty Peggy," by Emmet (Low, 1881);
"Children's Kettledrum," by M. A. C. (Dean, 1881); "Three Wise Old Couples," by Hopkins (Cassell,
1881); "Puss in Boots," by E. K. Johnson (Warne); "Sugar and Spice and all that's Nice" (Strahan,
1881); "Fly away, Fairies," by Clarkson (Griffith and Farran, 1882); "The Tiny Lawn Tennis
Club" (Dean, 1882); "Little Ben Bate," by M. Browne (Simpkin, 1882); "Nursery Night," by E.
Dewane (Dean, 1882); "New Pinafore Pictures" (Dean, 1882); "Rumpelstiltskin" (De la Rue, 1882);
"Baby's Debut," by J. Smith (De la Rue, 1883); "Buckets and Spades" (Dean, 1883); "Childhood"
(Warne, 1883); "Dame Trot" (Chapman and Hall, 1883); "In and Out," by Ismay Thorne (Sonnenschein,
1884); "Under Mother's Wing," by Mrs. Clifford (Gardner, Darton, 1883); "Quacks" (Ward and
Lock, 1883); "Little Chicks" (Griffith and Farran, 1883); "Talking Toys," "The Talking Clock,"
H. M. Bennett; "Four Feet by Two," by Helena Maguire; "Merry Hearts," "Cosy Corners," and "A
Christmas Fairy," by Gordon Browne (all published by Nisbet).

Among many books elaborately printed by Messrs. Hildesheimer, are two illustrated by M. E.
Edwards and J. C. Staples, "Told in the Twilight" (1883); and "Song of the Bells" (1884); and
one by M. E. Edwards only, "Two Children"; others by Jane M. Dealy, "Sixes and Sevens" (1882),
and "Little Miss Marigold" (1884); "Nursery Land," by H. J. Maguire (1888), and "Sunbeams,"
by E. K. Johnson and Ewart Wilson (1887).

F. D. Bedford, who illustrated and decorated "The Battle of the Frogs and Mice" (Methuen),
has produced this year one of the most satisfactory books with coloured illustrations. In "Nursery
Rhymes" (Methuen), the pictures, block-printed in colour by Edmund Evans, are worthy to be
placed beside the best books he has produced.

Of all lady illustrators--the phrase is cumbrous, but we have no other--Miss A. B. Woodward
stands apart, not only by the vigour of her work, but by its amazing humour, a quality which
is certainly infrequent in the work of her sister-artists. The books she has illustrated are
not very many, but all show this quality. "Banbury Cross," in Messrs. Dent's Series is among
the first. In "To Tell the King the Sky is Falling" (Blackie, 1896) there is a store of delicious
examples, and in "The Brownies" (Dent, 1896), the vigour of the handling is very noticeable.
In "Eric, Prince of Lorlonia" (Macmillan, 1896), we have further proof that these characteristics
are not mere accidents, but the result of carefully studied intention, which is also apparent
in the clever designs for the covers of Messrs. Blackie's Catalogue, 1896-97. This year, in
"Red Apple and Silver Bells," Miss Woodward shows marked advance. The book, with its delicious
rhymes by Hamish Hendry, is one to treasure, as is also her "Adventures in Toy Land," designs
marked by the diablerie of which she, alone of lady artists, seems to have the secret. In this
the wooden, inane expression of the toys contrasts delightfully with the animate figures.

Mr. Charles Robinson is one of the youngest recruits to the army of illustrators, and yet his
few years' record is both lengthy and kept at a singularly high level. In the first of his
designs which attracted attention we find the half-grotesque, half-real child that he has made
his own--fat, merry little people, that are bubbling over with the joy of mere existence. "Macmillan's
Literary Primers" is the rather ponderous title of these booklets which cost but a few pence
each, and are worth many a half-dozen high-priced nursery books. Stevenson's "Child's Garden
of Verse," his first important book, won a new reputation by reason of its pictures. Then came
"Æsop's Fables," in Dent's "Banbury Cross" Series. The next year saw Mr. Gabriel Setoun's book
of poems, "Child World," Mrs. Meynell's "The Children," Mr. H. D. Lowry's "Make Believe," and
two decorated pages in "The Parade" (Henry and Co.). The present Christmas will see several
books from his hand.

"Old World Japan" (George Allen) has thirty-four, and "Legends from River and Mountain," forty-two,
pictures by T. H. Robinson, which must not be forgotten. "The Giant Crab" (Nutt), and "Andersen"
(Bliss, Sands), are among the best things W. Robinson has yet done.

"Nonsense," by A. Nobody, and "Some More Nonsense," by A. Nobody (Gardner, Darton & Co.), are
unique instances of an unfettered humour. That their apparently naïve grotesques are from the
hand of a very practised draughtsman is evident at a first glance; but as their author prefers
to remain anonymous his identity must not be revealed. Specimens from the published work (which
is, however, mostly in colour), and facsimiles of hitherto unpublished drawings, entitled "The
Singing Lesson," kindly lent by Messrs. Gardner, Darton & Co., are here to prove how merry
our anonym can be. By the way, it may be well to add that the artist in question is not Sir
Edward Burne-Jones, whose caricatures, that are the delight of children of all ages who know
them, have been so far strictly kept to members of the family circle, for whom they were produced.

The editor of THE STUDIO, to whose selection of pictures for reproduction these pages owe their
chief interest, has spared no effort to show a good working sample of the best of all classes,
and in the space available has certainly omitted few of any consequence--except those so very
well known, as, for instance, Tenniel's "Alice" series, and the Caldecott toy-books--which
it would have been superfluous to illustrate again, especially in black and white after coloured
originals.

In Mrs. Field's volume already mentioned, the author says: "It has been well observed that
children do not desire, and ought not to be furnished with purely realistic portraits of themselves;
the boy's heart craves a hero, and the Johnny or Frank of the realistic story-book, the little
boy like himself, is not in this sense a hero." This passage, referring to the stories themselves,
might be applied to their illustration with hardly less force. To idealise is the normal impulse
of a child. True that it can "make believe" from the most rudimentary hints, but it is much
easier to do so if something not too actual is the groundwork. Figures which delight children
are never wholly symbolic, mere virtues and vices materialised as personages of the anecdote.
Real nonsense such as Lear concocted, real wit such as that which sparkles from Lewis Carroll's
pages, find their parallel in the pictures which accompany each text. It is the feeble effort
to be funny, the mildly punning humour of the imitators, which makes the text tedious, and
one fancies the artist is also infected, for in such books the drawings very rarely rise to
a high level.

The "pretty-pretty" school, which has been too popular, especially in anthologies of mildly
entertaining rhymes, is sickly at its best, and fails to retain the interest of a child. Possibly,
in pleading for imaginative art, one has forgotten that everywhere is Wonderland to a child,
who would be no more astonished to find a real elephant dropping in to tea, or a real miniature
railway across the lawn, than in finding a toy elephant or a toy engine awaiting him. Children
are so accustomed to novelty that they do not realise the abnormal; nor do they always crave
for unreality. As coaches and horses were the delight of youngsters a century ago, so are trains
and steamboats to-day. Given a pile of books and an empty floor space, their imagination needs
no mechanical models of real locomotives; or, to be more correct, they enjoy the make-believe
with quite as great a zest. Hence, perhaps, in praising conscious art for children's literature,
one is unwittingly pleasing older tastes; indeed, it is not inconceivable that the "prig" which
lurks in most of us may be nurtured by too refined diet. Whether a child brought up wholly
on the æsthetic toy-book would realise the greatness of Rembrandt's etchings or other masterpieces
of realistic art more easily than one who had only known the current pictures of cheap magazines,
is not a question to be decided off-hand. To foster an artificial taste is not wholly unattended
with danger; but if humour be present, as it is in the works of the best artists for the nursery,
then all fear vanishes; good wholesome laughter is the deadliest bane to the prig-microbe,
and will leave no infant lisping of the preciousness of Cimabue, or the wonder of Sandro Botticelli,
as certain children were reported to do in the brief days when the æsthete walked his faded
way among us. That modern children's books will--some of them at least--take an honourable
place in an iconography of nineteenth-century art, many of the illustrations here reproduced
are in themselves sufficient to prove.

After so many pages devoted to the subject, it might seem as if the mass of material should
have revealed very clearly what is the ideal illustration for children. But "children" is a
collective term, ranging from the tastes of the baby to the precocious youngsters who dip into
Mudie books on the sly, and hold conversations thereon which astonish their elders when by
chance they get wind of the fact. Perhaps the belief that children can be educated by the eye
is more plausible than well supported. In any case, it is good that the illustration should
be well drawn, well coloured; given that, whether it be realistically imitative or wholly fantastic
is quite a secondary matter. As we have had pointed out to us, the child is not best pleased
by mere portraits of himself; he prefers idealised children, whether naughtier and more adventurous,
or absolute heroes of romance. And here a strange fact appears, that as a rule what pleases
the boy pleases the girl also; but that boys look down with scorn on "girls' books." Any one
who has had to do with children knows how eagerly little sisters pounce upon books owned by
their brothers. Now, as a rule, books for girls are confined to stories of good girls, pictures
of good girls, and mildly exciting domestic incidents, comic or tragic. The child may be half
angel; he is undoubtedly half savage; a Pagan indifference to other people's pain, and grim
joy in other people's accidents, bear witness to that fact. Tender-hearted parents fear lest
some pictures should terrify the little ones; the few that do are those which the child himself
discovers in some extraordinary way to be fetishes. He hates them, yet is fascinated by them.
I remember myself being so appalled by a picture that is still keenly remembered. It fascinated
me, and yet was a thing of which the mere memory made one shudder in the dark--the said picture
representing a benevolent negro with Eva on his lap, from "Uncle Tom's Cabin," a blameless
Sunday-school inspired story. The horrors of an early folio of Foxe's "Martyrs," of a grisly
"Bunyan," with terrific pictures of Apollyon; even a still more grim series by H. C. Selous,
issued by the Art Union, if memory may be trusted, were merely exciting; it was the mild and
amiable representation of "Uncle Tom" that I felt to be the very incarnation of all things
evil. This personal incident is quoted only to show how impossible it is for the average adult
to foretell what will frighten or what will delight a child. For children are singularly reticent
concerning the "bogeys" of their own creating, yet, like many fanatics, it is these which they
really most fear.

Certainly it is possible that over-conscious art is too popular to-day. The illustrator when
he is at work often thinks more of the art critic who may review his book than the readers
who are to enjoy it. Purely conventional groups of figures, whether set in a landscape, or
against a decorative background, as a rule fail to retain a child's interest. He wants invention
and detail, plenty of incident, melodrama rather than suppressed emotion. Something moving,
active, and suggestive pleases him most, something about which a story can be woven not so
complex that his sense is puzzled to explain why things are as the artist drew them. It is
good to educate children unconsciously, but if we are too careful that all pictures should
be devoted to raising their standard of taste, it is possible that we may soon come back to
the Miss Pinkerton ideal of amusement blended with instruction. Hence one doubts if the "ultra-precious"
school really pleases the child; and if he refuse the jam the powder is obviously refused also.
One who makes pictures for children, like one who writes them stories, should have the knack
of entertaining them without any appearance of condescension in so doing. They will accept
any detail that is related to the incident, but are keenly alive to discrepancies of detail
or action that clash with the narrative. As they do not demand fine drawing, so the artist
must be careful to offer them very much more than academic accomplishment. Indeed, he (or she)
must be in sympathy with childhood, and able to project his vision back to its point of view.
And this is just a mood in accord with the feeling of our own time, when men distrust each
other and themselves, and keep few ideals free from doubt, except the reverence for the sanctity
of childhood. Those who have forsaken beliefs hallowed by centuries, and are the most cynical
and worldly-minded, yet often keep faith in one lost Atalantis--the domain of their own childhood
and those who still dwell in the happy isle. To have given a happy hour to one of the least
of these is peculiarly gratifying to many tired people to-day, those surfeited with success
no less than those weary of failure. And such labour is of love all compact; for children are
grudging in their praise, and seldom trouble to inquire who wrote their stories or painted
their pictures. Consequently those who work for them win neither much gold nor great fame;
but they have a most enthusiastic audience all the same. Yet when we remember that the veriest
daubs and atrocious drawings are often welcomed as heartily, one is driven to believe that
after all the bored people who turn to amuse the children, like others who turn to elevate
the masses, are really, if unconsciously, amusing if not elevating themselves. If children's
books please older people--and that they do so is unquestionable--it would be well to acknowledge
it boldly, and to share the pleasure with the nursery; not to take it surreptitiously under
the pretence of raising the taste of little people. Why should not grown-up people avow their
pleasure in children's books if they feel it?

If a collector in search of a new hobby wishes to start on a quest full of disappointment,
yet also full of lucky possibilities, illustrated books for children would give him an exciting
theme. The rare volume he hunted for in vain at the British Museum and South Kensington, for
which he scanned the shelves of every second-hand bookseller within reach, may meet his eye
in a twopenny box, just as he has despaired of ever seeing, much less procuring, a copy. At
least twice during the preparation of this number I have enjoyed that particular experience,
and have no reason to suppose it was very abnormal. To make a fine library of these things
may be difficult, but it is not a predestined failure. Caxtons and Wynkyn de Wordes seem less
scarce than some of these early nursery books. Yet, as we know, the former have been the quest
of collectors for years, and so are probably nearly all sifted out of the great rubbish-heaps
of dealers; the latter have not been in great demand, and may be unearthed in odd corners of
country shops and all sorts of likely and unlikely places. Therefore, as a hobby, it offers
an exciting quest with almost certain success in the end; in short, it offers the ideal conditions
for collecting as a pastime, provided you can muster sufficient interest in the subject to
become absorbed in its pursuit. So large is it that, even to limit one's quest to books with
coloured pictures would yet require a good many years' hunting to secure a decent "bag." Another
tempting point is that prices at present are mostly nominal, not because the quarry is plentiful,
but because the demand is not recognised by the general bookseller. Of course, books in good
condition, with unannotated pages, are rare; and some series--Felix Summerley's, for example--which
owe their chief interest to the "get-up" of the volume considered as a whole, would be scarce
worth possessing if "rebound" or deprived of their covers. Still, always provided the game
attracts him, the hobby-horseman has fair chances, and is inspired by motives hardly less noble
than those which distinguish the pursuit of bookplates (ex libris), postage-stamps and other
objects which have attracted men to devote not only their leisure and their spare cash, but
often their whole energy and nearly all their resources. Societies, with all the pomp of officials,
and members proudly arranging detached letters of the alphabet after their names, exist for
discussing hobbies not more important. Speaking as an interested but not infatuated collector,
it seems as if the mere gathering together of rarities of this sort would soon become as tedious
as the amassing of dull armorial ex libris, or sorting infinitely subtle varieties of postage-stamps.
But seeing the intense passion such things arouse in their devotees, the fact that among children's
books there are not a few of real intrinsic interest, ought not to make the hobby less attractive;
except that, speaking generally, your true collector seems to despise every quality except
rarity (which implies market value ultimately, if for the moment there are not enough rival
collectors to have started a "boom" in prices). Yet all these "snappers up of unconsidered
trifles" help to gather together material which may prove in time to be not without value to
the social historian or the student interested in the progress of printing and the art of illustration;
but it would be a pity to confuse ephemeral "curios" with lasting works of fine art, and the
ardour of collecting need not blind one to the fact that the former are greatly in excess of
the latter.

The special full-page illustrations which appear in this number must not be left without a
word of comment. In place of re-issuing facsimiles of actual illustrations from coloured books
of the past which would probably have been familiar to many readers, drawings by artists who
are mentioned elsewhere in this Christmas Number have been specially designed to carry out
the spirit of the theme. For Christmas is pre-eminently the time for children's books. Mr.
Robert Halls' painting of a baby, here called "The Heir to Fairyland"--the critic for whom
all this vast amount of effort is annually expended--is seen still in the early or destructive
stage, a curious foreshadowing of his attitude in a later development should he be led from
the paths of Philistia to the bye-ways of art criticism. The portrait miniatures of child-life
by Mr. Robert Halls, if not so well known as they deserve, cannot be unfamiliar to readers
of THE STUDIO, since many of his best works have been exhibited at the Academy and elsewhere.

The lithograph by Mr. R. Anning Bell, "In Nooks with Books," represents a second stage of the
juvenile critic when appreciation in a very acute form has set in, and picture-books are no
longer regarded as toys to destroy, but treasures to be enjoyed snugly with a delight in their
possession.

Mr. Granville Fell, with "King Love, a Christmas Greeting," turns back to the memory of the
birthday whose celebration provokes the gifts which so often take the form of illustrated books,
for Christmas is to Britons more and more the children's festival. The conviviality of the
Dickens' period may linger here and there; but to adults generally Christmas is only a vicarious
pleasure, for most households devote the day entirely to pleasing the little ones who have
annexed it as their own special holiday.

The dainty water-colour by Mr. Charles Robinson, and the charming drawing in line by M. Boutet
de Monvel, call for no comment. Collectors will be glad to possess such excellent facsimiles
of work by two illustrators conspicuous for their work in this field. The figure by Mr. Robinson,
"So Light of Foot, so Light of Spirit," is extremely typical of the personal style he has adopted
from the first. Studies by M. de Monvel have appeared before in THE STUDIO, so that it would
be merely reiterating the obvious to call attention to the exquisite truth of character which
he obtains with rare artistry.

G. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Editor's best thanks are due to all those publishers who have so kindly and readily come
forward with their assistance in the compilation of "Children's Books and their Illustrators."
Owing to exigences of space reference to several important new books has necessarily been postponed.

       *       *       *       *       *

For Younger Readers

BY MARTHA FINLEY

ELSIE DINSMORE. With illustrations by H. C. Christy. Large 8vo, cloth. $1.50.

ELSIE AT HOME. Similar in general style to the previous "Elsie" books. 16mo, cloth. $1.25.

BY RAFFORD PYKE.

THE ADVENTURES OF MABEL. For children of five and six. With many illustrations by MELANIE ELIZABETH
NORTON. Large 8vo. $1.75.

BY BARBARA YECHTON.

DERICK. Illustrated. Large 12mo, cloth. $1.50.

BY AMANDA M. DOUGLAS.

CHILDREN AT SHERBURNE HOUSE, 12mo, cloth. $1.50.

NAN. A Sequel to "A Little Girl in Old New York." Illustrated. 12mo, cloth. $1.50.

BY ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS.

GIPSY'S YEAR AT THE GOLDEN CRESCENT. Uniform with the previous volumes of the same series.
Fully illustrated. Large 12mo, cloth. $1.50.

BY ELIZABETH W. CHAMPNEY.

WITCH WINNIE IN VENICE. With many illustrations. Large 12mo, cloth. $1.50.

PIERRE AND HIS POODLE. With numerous illustrations. 12mo, cloth. $1.00.

BY BEATRICE HARRADEN.

UNTOLD TALES OF THE PAST. By BEATRICE HARRADEN, author of "Ships that Pass in the Night," "Hilda
Strafford," etc. Illustrated. Cloth. Probably $1.50.

The above are published by

          Dodd, Mead & Company, FIFTH AVE. & 21ST
          STREET, NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

Four Capital Books

Aaron in the Wildwoods

A delightful new Thimblefinger story of Aaron while a "runaway," by JOEL CHANDLER HARRIS, author
of "Little Mr. Thimblefinger and his Queer Country," "Mr. Rabbit at Home," "The Story of Aaron,"
etc. With 24 full-page illustrations by OLIVER HERFORD. Square 8vo. $2.00.

Little-Folk Lyrics

By FRANK DEMPSTER SHERMAN. HOLIDAY EDITION. A beautiful book of very charming poems for children,
with 16 exquisite illustrations. 12mo. $1.50.

Being a Boy

By CHARLES DUDLEY WARNER. With an introduction and 32 capital full-page illustrations from
photographs by CLIFTON JOHNSON. 12mo, gilt top. $2.00.

An Unwilling Maid

A capital story of the Revolution, for girls, by JEANIE GOULD LINCOLN, author of "Marjorie's
Quest," "A Genuine Girl," etc. With illustrations. $1.25.

          Few recent stories surpass it in the fortunate
          blending of vivacity and sweetness and stern
          loyalty to duty and tender and pathetic
          experiences. It is fascinatingly written and every
          chapter increases its delightfulness.--The
          Congregationalist, Boston.

Sold by Booksellers, Sent, postpaid, by

Houghton, Mifflin & Co., Boston

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW BOOKS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS

Three New Historical Tales by E. Everett Green, Author of "The Young Pioneers," etc.

A CLERK AT OXFORD, AND HIS ADVENTURES IN THE BARON'S WAR.

With a plan of Oxford in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, and a view of the city from
an old print. 8vo, extra cloth. $1.50.

SISTER: A CHRONICLE OF FAIR HAVEN.

With eight illustrations by J. FINNEMORE. 8vo, extra cloth. $1.50.

TOM TUFTON'S TRAVELS.

With illustrations by W. S. STACEY. 8vo, extra cloth, $1.25.

Two New Books by Herbert Hayens, Author of "Clevely Sahib," "Under the Lone Star," etc.

AN EMPEROR'S DOOM; OR THE PATRIOTS OF MEXICO.

A tale of the downfall of Maximilian, with eight illustrations by A. J. B. SALMON. 8vo, extra
cloth. $1.50.

SOLDIERS OF THE LEGION.

A tale of the Carlist War. 8vo, extra cloth, illustrated. $1.25.

THE ISLAND OF GOLD.

A Sailor's Yarn. By GORDON STABLES, M. D., R. N., author of "Every Inch a Sailor," "How Jack
McKenzie Won His Epaulettes," etc. With six illustrations by ALLAN STUART. 8vo, extra cloth. $1.25.

POPPY.

A tale. By MRS. ISLA SITWELL, author of "In Far Japan," "The Golden Woof," etc. With illustrations.
8vo, cloth extra. $1.25.

VANDRAD THE VIKING; OR THE FEUD AND THE SPELL.

A tale of the Norsemen. By I. STORER CLOUSTON. With six illustrations by HERBERT PAYTON. 8vo,
cloth. 80 cts.

THE VANISHED YACHT.

By E. HARCOURT BURRAGE. Cloth extra. $1.00. 60 cts.

A BOOK ABOUT SHAKESPEARE.

Written for Young People. By I. N. MCILWRAITH. With numerous illustrations. Cloth extra. 60 cts.

ACROSS GREENLAND'S ICEFIELDS.

An account of the discoveries by Nansen and Peary. With portraits of Nansen and other illustrations.
8vo, cloth. 80 cts.

BREAKING THE RECORD.

The story of North Polar Expeditions by the Nova Zembla and Spitzbergen Routes. By M. DOUGLASS,
author of "Across Greenland's Icefields," etc. With numerous illustrations. Cloth extra. 80 cts.

For sale by all Booksellers, or sent prepaid on receipt of price, Send for complete catalogue,

THOMAS NELSON & SONS, Publishers, 33 E. 17th St. (Union Sq.), N. Y.

CHILDRENS' BOOKS

=The Blackberries=

