Such social power means, assuredly, the growth of initiative among Negroes, the spread of independent
thought, the expanding consciousness of manhood; and these things to-day are looked upon by
many with apprehension and distrust. Men openly declare their design to train these millions
as a subject caste, as men to be thought for, but not to think; to be led, but not to lead
themselves.

Those who advocate these things forget that such a solution flings them squarely on the other
horn of the dilemma: such a subject child-race could never be held accountable for its own
misdeeds and shortcomings; its ignorance would be part of the nation's design, its poverty
would arise partly from the direct oppression of the strong and partly from thriftlessness
which such oppression breeds; and, above all, its crime would be the legitimate child of that
lack of self-respect which caste systems engender. Such a solution of the Negro problem is
not one which the saner sense of the nation for a moment contemplates; it is utterly foreign
to American institutions, and is unthinkable as a future for any self-respecting race of men.
The sound afterthought of the American people must come to realize that the responsibility
for dispelling ignorance and poverty, and uprooting crime among Negroes cannot be put upon
their own shoulders unless they are given such independent leadership in intelligence, skill,
and morality as will inevitably lead to an independent manhood which cannot and will not rest
in bonds.

Let me illustrate my meaning particularly in the matter of educating Negro youth.

The Negro problem, it has often been said, is largely a problem of ignorance--not simply of
illiteracy, but a deeper ignorance of the world and its ways, of the thought and experience
of men; an ignorance of self and the possibilities of human souls. This can be gotten rid of
only by training; and primarily such training must take the form of that sort of social leadership
which we call education. To apply such leadership to themselves and to profit by it, means
that Negroes would have among themselves men of careful training and broad culture, as teachers
and teachers of teachers. There are always periods of educational evolution when it is deemed
quite proper for pupils in the fourth reader to teach those in the third. But such a method,
wasteful and ineffective at all times, is peculiarly dangerous when ignorance is widespread
and when there are few homes and public institutions to supplement the work of the school.
It is, therefore, of crying necessity among Negroes that the heads of their educational system--the
teachers in the normal schools, the heads of high schools, the principals of public systems,
should be unusually well trained men; men trained not simply in common-school branches, not
simply in the technique of school management and normal methods, but trained beyond this, broadly
and carefully, into the meaning of the age whose civilization it is their peculiar duty to
interpret to the youth of a new race, to the minds of untrained people. Such educational leaders
should be prepared by long and rigorous courses of study similar to those which the world over
have been designed to strengthen the intellectual powers, fortify character, and facilitate
the transmission from age to age of the stores of the world's knowledge.

Not all men--indeed, not the majority of men, only the exceptional few among American Negroes
or among any other people--are adapted to this higher training, as, indeed, only the exceptional
few are adapted to higher training in any line; but the significance of such men is not to
be measured by their numbers, but rather by the numbers of their pupils and followers who are
destined to see the world through their eyes, hear it through their trained ears, and speak
to it through the music of their words.

Such men, teachers of teachers and leaders of the untaught, Atlanta University and similar
colleges seek to train. We seek to do our work thoroughly and carefully. We have no predilections
or prejudices as to particular studies or methods, but we do cling to those time-honored sorts
of discipline which the experience of the world has long since proven to be of especial value.
We sift as carefully as possible the student material which offers itself, and we try by every
conscientious method to give to students who have character and ability such years of discipline
as shall make them stronger, keener, and better for their peculiar mission. The history of
civilization seems to prove that no group or nation which seeks advancement and true development
can despise or neglect the power of well-trained minds; and this power of intellectual leadership
must be given to the talented tenth among American Negroes before this race can seriously be
asked to assume the responsibility of dispelling its own ignorance. Upon the foundation-stone
of a few well-equipped Negro colleges of high and honest standards can be built a proper system
of free common schools in the South for the masses of the Negro people; any attempt to found
a system of public schools on anything less than this--on narrow ideals, limited or merely
technical training--is to call blind leaders for the blind.

The very first step toward the settlement of the Negro problem is the spread of intelligence.
The first step toward wider intelligence is a free public-school system; and the first and
most important step toward a public-school system is the equipment and adequate support of
a sufficient number of Negro colleges. These are first steps, and they involve great movements:
first, the best of the existent colleges must not be abandoned to slow atrophy and death, as
the tendency is to-day; secondly, systematic attempt must be made to organize secondary education.
Below the colleges and connected with them must come the normal and high schools, judiciously
distributed and carefully manned. In no essential particular should this system of common and
secondary schools differ from educational systems the world over. Their chief function is the
quickening and training of human intelligence; they can do much in the teaching of morals and
manners incidentally, but they cannot and ought not to replace the home as the chief moral
teacher; they can teach valuable lessons as to the meaning of work in the world, but they cannot
replace technical schools and apprenticeship in actual life, which are the real schools of
work. Manual training can and ought to be used in these schools, but as a means and not as
an end--to quicken intelligence and self-knowledge and not to teach carpentry; just as arithmetic
is used to train minds and not skilled accountants.

