STONES OF VENICE

BY JOHN RUSKIN

THE STONES OF VENICE:

INTRODUCTORY CHAPTERS AND LOCAL INDICES (PRINTED SEPARATELY) FOR THE USE OF TRAVELLERS WHILE
STAYING IN VENICE AND VERONA.

BY JOHN RUSKIN, LL.D.

PREFACE.

This volume is the first of a series designed by the Author with the purpose of placing in
the hands of the public, in more serviceable form, those portions of his earlier works which
he thinks deserving of a permanent place in the system of his general teaching. They were at
first intended to be accompanied by photographic reductions of the principal plates in the
larger volumes; but this design has been modified by the Author's increasing desire to gather
his past and present writings into a consistent body, illustrated by one series of plates,
purchasable in separate parts, and numbered consecutively. Of other prefatory matter, once
intended,--apologetic mostly,--the reader shall be spared the cumber: and a clear prospectus
issued by the publisher of the new series of plates, as soon as they are in a state of forwardness.

The second volume of this edition will contain the most useful matter out of the third volume
of the old one, closed by its topical index, abridged and corrected.

BRANTWOOD,

3rd May, 1879.

CONTENTS.

CHAP.

I. The Quarry

II. The Throne

III. Torcello

IV. St. Mark's

V. The Ducal Palace

THE STONES OF VENICE

CHAPTER I.

[FIRST OF THE OLD EDITION.]

THE QUARRY.

SECTION I. Since the first dominion of men was asserted over the ocean, three thrones, of mark
beyond all others, have been set upon its sands: the thrones of Tyre, Venice, and England.
Of the First of these great powers only the memory remains; of the Second, the ruin; the Third,
which inherits their greatness, if it forget their example, may be led through prouder eminence
to less pitied destruction.

The exaltation, the sin, and the punishment of Tyre have been recorded for us, in perhaps the
most touching words ever uttered by the Prophets of Israel against the cities of the stranger.
But we read them as a lovely song; and close our ears to the sternness of their warning: for
the very depth of the Fall of Tyre has blinded us to its reality, and we forget, as we watch
the bleaching of the rocks between the sunshine and the sea, that they were once "as in Eden,
the garden of God."

Her successor, like her in perfection of beauty, though less in endurance of dominion, is still
left for our beholding in the final period of her decline: a ghost upon the sands of the sea,
so weak--so quiet,--so bereft of all but her loveliness, that we might well doubt, as we watched
her faint reflection in the mirage of the lagoon, which was the City, and which the Shadow.

I would endeavor to trace the lines of this image before it be for ever lost, and to record,
as far as I may, the warning which seems to me to be uttered by every one of the fast-gaining
waves, that beat, like passing bells, against the STONES OF VENICE.

SECTION II. It would be difficult to overrate the value of the lessons which might be derived
from a faithful study of the history of this strange and mighty city: a history which, in spite
of the labor of countless chroniclers, remains in vague and disputable outline,--barred with
brightness and shade, like the far away edge of her own ocean, where the surf and the sand-bank
are mingled with the sky. The inquiries in which we have to engage will hardly render this
outline clearer, but their results will, in some degree, alter its aspect; and, so far as they
bear upon it at all, they possess an interest of a far higher kind than that usually belonging
to architectural investigations. I may, perhaps, in the outset, and in few words, enable the
general reader to form a clearer idea of the importance of every existing expression of Venetian
character through Venetian art, and of the breadth of interest which the true history of Venice
embraces, than he is likely to have gleaned from the current fables of her mystery or magnificence.

SECTION III. Venice is usually conceived as an oligarchy: She was so during a period less than
the half of her existence, and that including the days of her decline; and it is one of the
first questions needing severe examination, whether that decline was owing in any wise to the
change in the form of her government, or altogether as assuredly in great part, to changes,
in the character of the persons of whom it was composed.

The state of Venice existed Thirteen Hundred and Seventy-six years, from the first establishment
of a consular government on the island of the Rialto, [Footnote: Appendix I., "Foundations
of Venice."] to the moment when the General-in-chief of the French army of Italy pronounced
the Venetian republic a thing of the past. Of this period, Two Hundred and Seventy-six years
[Footnote: Appendix II., "Power of the Doges."] were passed in a nominal subjection to the
cities of old Venetia, especially to Padua, and in an agitated form of democracy, of which
the executive appears to have been entrusted to tribunes, [Footnote: Sismondi, Hist. des Rep.
Ital., vol. i. ch. v.] chosen, one by the inhabitants of each of the principal islands. For
six hundred years, [Footnote: Appendix III., "Serrar del Consiglio."] during which the power
of Venice was continually on the increase, her government was an elective monarchy, her King
or doge possessing, in early times at least, as much independent authority as any other European
sovereign, but an authority gradually subjected to limitation, and shortened almost daily of
its prerogatives, while it increased in a spectral and incapable magnificence. The final government
of the nobles, under the image of a king, lasted for five hundred years, during which Venice
reaped the fruits of her former energies, consumed them,--and expired.

SECTION IV. Let the reader therefore conceive the existence of the Venetian state as broadly
divided into two periods: the first of nine hundred, the second of five hundred years, the
separation being marked by what was called the "Serrar del Consiglio;" that is to say, the
final and absolute distinction of the nobles from the commonalty, and the establishment of
the government in their hands to the exclusion alike of the influence of the people on the
one side, and the authority of the doge on the other.

Then the first period, of nine hundred years, presents us with the most interesting spectacle
of a people struggling out of anarchy into order and power; and then governed, for the most
part, by the worthiest and noblest man whom they could find among them, [Footnote: "Ha saputo
trovar modo che non uno, non pochi, non molti, signoreggiano, ma molti buoni, pochi migliori,
e insiememente, un ottimo solo." (Sansovino,) Ah, well done, Venice! Wisdom this, indeed.]
called their Doge or Leader, with an aristocracy gradually and resolutely forming itself around
him, out of which, and at last by which, he was chosen; an aristocracy owing its origin to
the accidental numbers, influence, and wealth of some among the families of the fugitives from
the older Venetia, and gradually organizing itself, by its unity and heroism, into a separate body.

This first period includes the rise of Venice, her noblest achievements, and the circumstances
which determined her character and position among European powers; and within its range, as
might have been anticipated, we find the names of all her hero princes,--of Pietro Urseolo,
Ordalafo Falier, Domenico Michieli, Sebastiano Ziani, and Enrico Dandolo.

SECTION V. The second period opens with a hundred and twenty years, the most eventful in the
career of Venice--the central struggle of her life--stained with her darkest crime, the murder
of Carrara--disturbed by her most dangerous internal sedition, the conspiracy of Falier--oppressed
by her most fatal war, the war of Chiozza--and distinguished by the glory of her two noblest
citizens (for in this period the heroism of her citizens replaces that of her monarchs), Vittor
Pisani and Carlo Zeno.

I date the commencement of the Fall of Venice from the death of Carlo Zeno, 8th May, 1418;
[Footnote: Daru, liv. xii. ch. xii.] the visible commencement from that of another of her noblest
and wisest children, the Doge Tomaso Mocenigo, who expired five years later. The reign of Foscari
followed, gloomy with pestilence and war; a war in which large acquisitions of territory were
made by subtle or fortunate policy in Lombardy, and disgrace, significant as irreparable, sustained
in the battles on the Po at Cremona, and in the marshes of Caravaggio. In 1454, Venice, the
first of the states of Christendom, humiliated herself to the Turk in the same year was established
the Inquisition of State, [Footnote: Daru, liv. xvi. cap. xx. We owe to this historian the
discovery of the statutes of the tribunal and date of its establishment.] and from this period
her government takes the perfidious and mysterious form under which it is usually conceived.
In 1477, the great Turkish invasion spread terror to the shores of the lagoons; and in 1508
the league of Cambrai marks the period usually assigned as the commencement of the decline
of the Venetian power; [Footnote: Ominously signified by their humiliation to the Papal power
(as before to the Turkish) in 1509, and their abandonment of their right of appointing the
clergy of their territories.] the commercial prosperity of Venice in the close of the fifteenth
century blinding her historians to the previous evidence of the diminution of her internal
strength.

SECTION VI. Now there is apparently a significative coincidence between the establishment of
the aristocratic and oligarchical powers, and the diminution of the prosperity of the state.
But this is the very question at issue; and it appears to me quite undetermined by any historian,
or determined by each in accordance with his own prejudices. It is a triple question: first,
whether the oligarchy established by the efforts of individual ambition was the cause, in its
subsequent operation, of the Fall of Venice; or (secondly) whether the establishment of the
oligarchy itself be not the sign and evidence, rather than the cause, of national enervation;
or (lastly) whether, as I rather think, the history of Venice might not be written almost without
reference to the construction of her senate or the prerogatives of her Doge. It is the history
of a people eminently at unity in itself, descendants of Roman race, long disciplined by adversity,
and compelled by its position either to live nobly or to perish:--for a thousand years they
fought for life; for three hundred they invited death: their battle was rewarded, and their
call was heard.

SECTION VII. Throughout her career, the victories of Venice, and, at many periods of it, her
safety, were purchased by individual heroism; and the man who exalted or saved her was sometimes
(oftenest) her king, sometimes a noble, sometimes a citizen. To him no matter, nor to her:
the real question is, not so much what names they bore, or with what powers they were entrusted,
as how they were trained; how they were made masters of themselves, servants of their country,
patient of distress, impatient of dishonor; and what was the true reason of the change from
the time when she could find saviours among those whom she had cast into prison, to that when
the voices of her own children commanded her to sign covenant with Death. [Footnote: The senate
voted the abdication of their authority by a majority of 512 to 14. (Alison, ch. xxiii.)]

SECTION VIII. On this collateral question I wish the reader's mind to be fixed throughout all
our subsequent inquiries. It will give double interest to every detail: nor will the interest
be profitless; for the evidence which I shall be able to deduce from the arts of Venice will
be both frequent and irrefragable, that the decline of her political prosperity was exactly
coincident with that of domestic and individual religion.

I say domestic and individual; for--and this is the second point which I wish the reader to
keep in mind--the most curious phenomenon in all Venetian history is the vitality of religion
in private life, and its deadness in public policy. Amidst the enthusiasm, chivalry, or fanaticism
of the other states of Europe, Venice stands, from first to last, like a masked statue; her
coldness impenetrable, her exertion only aroused by the touch of a secret spring. That spring
was her commercial interest,--this the one motive of all her important political acts, or enduring
national animosities. She could forgive insults to her honor, but never rivalship in her commerce;
she calculated the glory of her conquests by their value, and estimated their justice by their
facility. The fame of success remains; when the motives of attempt are forgotten; and the casual
reader of her history may perhaps be surprised to be reminded, that the expedition which was
commanded by the noblest of her princes, and whose results added most to her military glory,
was one in which while all Europe around her was wasted by the fire of its devotion, she first
calculated the highest price she could exact from its piety for the armament she furnished,
and then, for the advancement of her own private interests, at once broke her faith [Footnote:
By directing the arms of the Crusaders against a Christian prince. (Daru, liv. iv. ch. iv.
viii.)] and betrayed her religion.

SECTION IX. And yet, in the midst of this national criminality, we shall be struck again and
again by the evidences of the most noble individual feeling. The tears of Dandolo were not
shed in hypocrisy, though they could not blind him to the importance of the conquest of Zara.
The habit of assigning to religion a direct influence over all his own actions, and all the
affairs of his own daily life, is remarkable in every great Venetian during the times of the
prosperity of the state; nor are instances wanting in which the private feeling of the citizens
reaches the sphere of their policy, and even becomes the guide of its course where the scales
of expediency are doubtfully balanced. I sincerely trust that the inquirer would be disappointed
who should endeavor to trace any more immediate reasons for their adoption of the cause of
Alexander III. against Barbarossa, than the piety which was excited by the character of their
suppliant, and the noble pride which was provoked by the insolence of the emperor. But the
heart of Venice is shown only in her hastiest councils; her worldly spirit recovers the ascendency
whenever she has time to calculate the probabilities of advantage, or when they are sufficiently
distinct to need no calculation; and the entire subjection of private piety to national policy
is not only remarkable throughout the almost endless series of treacheries and tyrannies by
which her empire was enlarged and maintained, but symbolized by a very singular circumstance
in the building of the city itself. I am aware of no other city of Europe in which its cathedral
was not the principal feature. But the principal church in Venice was the chapel attached to
the palace of her prince, and called the "Chiesa Ducale." The patriarchal church, [Footnote:
Appendix 4, "San Pietro di Castello."] inconsiderable in size and mean in decoration, stands
on the outermost islet of the Venetian group, and its name, as well as its site, is probably
unknown to the greater number of travellers passing hastily through the city. Nor is it less
worthy of remark, that the two most important temples of Venice, next to the ducal chapel,
owe their size and magnificence, not to national effort, but to the energy of the Franciscan
and Dominican monks, supported by the vast organization of those great societies on the mainland
of Italy, and countenanced by the most pious, and perhaps also, in his generation, the most
wise, of all the princes of Venice, [Footnote: Tomaso Mocenigo, above named, Section V.] who
now rests beneath the roof of one of those very temples, and whose life is not satirized by
the images of the Virtues which a Tuscan sculptor has placed around his tomb.

SECTION X. There are, therefore, two strange and solemn lights in which we have to regard almost
every scene in the fitful history of the Rivo Alto. We find, on the one hand, a deep, and constant
tone of individual religion characterizing the lives of the citizens of Venice in her greatness;
we find this spirit influencing them in all the familiar and immediate concerns of life, giving
a peculiar dignity to the conduct even of their commercial transactions, and confessed by them
with a simplicity of faith that may well put to shame the hesitation with which a man of the
world at present admits (even if it be so in reality) that religious feeling has any influence
over the minor branches of his conduct. And we find as the natural consequence of all this,
a healthy serenity of mind and energy of will expressed in all their actions, and a habit of
heroism which never fails them, even when the immediate motive of action ceases to be praiseworthy.
With the fulness of this spirit the prosperity of the state is exactly correspondent, and with
its failure her decline, and that with a closeness and precision which it will be one of the
collateral objects of the following essay to demonstrate from such accidental evidence as the
field of its inquiry presents. And, thus far, all is natural and simple. But the stopping short
of this religious faith when it appears likely to influence national action, correspondent
as it is, and that most strikingly, with several characteristics of the temper of our present
English legislature, is a subject, morally and politically, of the most curious interest and
complicated difficulty; one, however, which the range of my present inquiry will not permit
me to approach, and for the treatment of which I must be content to furnish materials in the
light I may be able to throw upon the private tendencies of the Venetian character.

SECTION XI. There is, however, another most interesting feature in the
policy of Venice which will be often brought before us; and which a
Romanist would gladly assign as the reason of its irreligion; namely,
the magnificent and successful struggle which she maintained against the
temporal authority of the Church of Rome. It is true that, in a rapid
survey of her career, the eye is at first arrested by the strange drama
to which I have already alluded, closed by that ever memorable scene in
the portico of St. Mark's, [Footnote:
                    "In that temple porch,
  (The brass is gone, the porphyry remains,)
  Did BARBAROSSA fling his mantle off,
  And kneeling, on his neck receive the foot
  Of the proud Pontiff--thus at last consoled
  For flight, disguise, and many an aguish shake
  On his stony pillow."

I need hardly say whence the lines are taken: Rogers' "Italy" has, I believe, now a place in
the best beloved compartment of all libraries, and will never be removed from it. There is
more true expression of the spirit of Venice in the passages devoted to her in that poem, than
in all else that has been written of her.] the central expression in most men's thoughts of
the unendurable elevation of the pontifical power; it is true that the proudest thoughts of
Venice, as well as the insignia of her prince, and the form of her chief festival, recorded
the service thus rendered to the Roman Church. But the enduring sentiment of years more than
balanced the enthusiasm of a moment; and the bull of Clement V., which excommunicated the Venetians
and their doge, likening them to Dathan, Abiram, Absalom, and Lucifer, is a stronger evidence
of the great tendencies of the Venetian government than the umbrella of the doge or the ring
of the Adriatic. The humiliation of Francesco Dandolo blotted out the shame of Barbarossa,
and the total exclusion of ecclesiastics from all share in the councils of Venice became an
enduring mark of her knowledge of the spirit of the Church of Rome, and of her defiance of it.

To this exclusion of Papal influence from her councils, the Romanist will attribute their irreligion,
and the Protestant their success. [Footnote: At least, such success as they had. Vide Appendix
5, "The Papal Power in Venice."]

The first may be silenced by a reference to the character of the policy of the Vatican itself;
and the second by his own shame, when he reflects that the English legislature sacrificed their
principles to expose themselves to the very danger which the Venetian senate sacrificed theirs
to avoid.

SECTION XII. One more circumstance remains to be noted respecting the Venetian government,
the singular unity of the families composing it,--unity far from sincere or perfect, but still
admirable when contrasted with the fiery feuds, the almost daily revolutions, the restless
successions of families and parties in power, which fill the annals of the other states of
Italy. That rivalship should sometimes be ended by the dagger, or enmity conducted to its ends
under the mask of law, could not but be anticipated where the fierce Italian spirit was subjected
to so severe a restraint: it is much that jealousy appears usually unmingled with illegitimate
ambition, and that, for every instance in which private passion sought its gratification through
public danger, there are a thousand in which it was sacrificed to the public advantage. Venice
may well call upon us to note with reverence, that of all the towers which are still seen rising
like a branchless forest from her islands, there is but one whose office was other than that
of summoning to prayer, and that one was a watch-tower only [Footnote: Thus literally was fulfilled
the promise to St. Mark,--Pax e.] from first to last, while the palaces of the other cities
of Italy were lifted into sullen fortitudes of rampart, and fringed with forked battlements
for the javelin and the bow, the sands of Venice never sank under the weight of a war tower,
and her roof terraces were wreathed with Arabian imagery, of golden globes suspended on the
leaves of lilies. [Footnote: The inconsiderable fortifications of the arsenal are no exception
to this statement, as far as it regards the city itself. They are little more than a semblance
of precaution against the attack of a foreign enemy.]

SECTION XIII. These, then, appear to me to be the points of chief general interest in the character
and fate of the Venetian people. I would next endeavor to give the reader some idea of the
manner in which the testimony of Art bears upon these questions, and of the aspect which the
arts themselves assume when they are regarded in their true connection with the history of
the state.

1st. Receive the witness of Painting.

It will be remembered that I put the commencement of the Fall of Venice as far back as 1418.

Now, John Bellini was born in 1423, and Titian in 1480. John Bellini, and his brother Gentile,
two years older than he, close the line of the sacred painters of Venice. But the most solemn
spirit of religious faith animates their works to the last. There is no religion in any work
of Titian's: there is not even the smallest evidence of religious temper or sympathies either
in himself, or in those for whom he painted. His larger sacred subjects are merely themes for
the exhibition of pictorial rhetoric,--composition and color. His minor works are generally
made subordinate to purposes of portraiture. The Madonna in the church of the Frari is a mere
lay figure, introduced to form a link of connection between the portraits of various members
of the Pesaro family who surround her.

Now this is not merely because John Bellini was a religious man and Titian was not. Titian
and Bellini are each true representatives of the school of painters contemporary with them;
and the difference in their artistic feeling is a consequence not so much of difference in
their own natural characters as in their early education: Bellini was brought up in faith;
Titian in formalism. Between the years of their births the vital religion of Venice had expired.

SECTION XIV. The vital religion, observe, not the formal. Outward observance was as strict
as ever; and doge and senator still were painted, in almost every important instance, kneeling
before the Madonna or St. Mark; a confession of faith made universal by the pure gold of the
Venetian sequin. But observe the great picture of Titian's in the ducal palace, of the Doge
Antonio Grimani kneeling before Faith: there is a curious lesson in it. The figure of Faith
is a coarse portrait of one of Titian's least graceful female models: Faith had become carnal.
The eye is first caught by the flash of the Doge's armor. The heart of Venice was in her wars,
not in her worship.

The mind of Tintoret, incomparably more deep and serious than that of Titian, casts the solemnity
of its own tone over the sacred subjects which it approaches, and sometimes forgets itself
into devotion; but the principle of treatment is altogether the same as Titian's: absolute
subordination of the religious subject to purposes of decoration or portraiture.

The evidence might be accumulated a thousandfold from the works of Veronese, and of every succeeding
painter,--that the fifteenth century had taken away the religious heart of Venice.

SECTION XV. Such is the evidence of Painting. To collect that of Architecture will be our task
through many a page to come; but I must here give a general idea of its heads.

Philippe de Commynes, writing of his entry into Venice in 1495, says,--

"Chascun me feit seoir au meillieu de ces deux ambassadeurs qui est l'honneur d'Italie que
d'estre au meillieu; et me menerent au long de la grant rue, qu'ilz appellent le Canal Grant,
et est bien large. Les gallees y passent a travers et y ay veu navire de quatre cens tonneaux
ou plus pres des maisons: et est la plus belle rue que je croy qui soit en tout le monde, et
la mieulx maisonnee, et va le long de la ville. Les maisons sont fort grandes et haultes, et
de bonne pierre, et les anciennes toutes painctes; les aul tres faictes depuis cent ans: toutes
ont le devant de marbre blanc, qui leur vient d'Istrie, a cent mils de la, et encores maincte
grant piece de porphire et de sarpentine sur le devant.... C'est la plus triumphante cite que
j'aye jamais veue et qui plus faict d'honneur a ambassadeurs et estrangiers, et qui plus saigement
se gouverne, et ou le service de Dieu est le plus sollennellement faict: et encores qu'il y
peust bien avoir d'aultres faultes, si croy je que Dieu les a en ayde pour la reverence qu'ilz
portent au service de l'Eglise." [Footnote: Memoires de Commynes, liv. vii. ch. xviii.]

SECTION XVI. This passage is of peculiar interest, for two reasons. Observe, first, the impression
of Commynes respecting the religion of Venice: of which, as I have above said, the forms still
remained with some glimmering of life in them, and were the evidence of what the real life
had been in former times. But observe, secondly, the impression instantly made on Commynes'
mind by the distinction between the elder palaces and those built "within this last hundred
years; which all have their fronts of white marble brought from Istria, a hundred miles away,
and besides, many a large piece of porphyry and serpentine upon their fronts."

On the opposite page I have given two of the ornaments of the palaces which so struck the French
ambassador. [Footnote: Appendix 6, "Renaissance Ornaments."] He was right in his notice of
the distinction. There had indeed come a change over Venetian architecture in the fifteenth
century; and a change of some importance to us moderns: we English owe to it our St. Paul's
Cathedral, and Europe in general owes to it the utter degradation or destruction of her schools
of architecture, never since revived. But that the reader may understand this, it is necessary
that he should have some general idea of the connection of the architecture of Venice with
that of the rest of Europe, from its origin forwards.

SECTION XVII. All European architecture, bad and good, old and new, is derived from Greece
through Rome, and colored and perfected from the East. The history of architecture is nothing
but the tracing of the various modes and directions of this derivation. Understand this, once
for all: if you hold fast this great connecting clue, you may string all the types of successive
architectural invention upon it like so many beads. The Doric and the Corinthian orders are
the roots, the one of all Romanesque, massy-capitaled buildings--Norman, Lombard, Byzantine,
and what else you can name of the kind; and the Corinthian of all Gothic, Early English, French,
German, and Tuscan. Now observe: those old Greeks gave the shaft; Rome gave the arch; the Arabs
pointed and foliated the arch. The shaft and arch, the frame-work and strength of architecture,
are from the race of Japheth: the spirituality and sanctity of it from Ismael, Abraham, and Shem.

SECTION XVIII. There is high probability that the Greek received his shaft system from Egypt;
but I do not care to keep this earlier derivation in the mind of the reader. It is only necessary
that he should be able to refer to a fixed point of origin, when the form of the shaft was
first perfected. But it may be incidently observed, that if the Greeks did indeed receive their
Doric from Egypt, then the three families of the earth have each contributed their part to
its noblest architecture: and Ham, the servant of the others, furnishes the sustaining or bearing
member, the shaft; Japheth the arch; Shem the spiritualization of both.

SECTION XIX. I have said that the two orders, Doric and Corinthian, are the roots of all European
architecture. You have, perhaps, heard of five orders; but there are only two real orders,
and there never can be any more until doomsday. On one of these orders the ornament is convex:
those are Doric, Norman, and what else you recollect of the kind. On the other the ornament
is concave: those are Corinthian, Early English, Decorated, and what else you recollect of
that kind. The transitional form, in which the ornamental line is straight, is the centre or
root of both. All other orders are varieties of those, or phantasms and grotesques altogether
indefinite in number and species. [Footnote: Appendix 7, "Varieties of the Orders."]

SECTION XX. This Greek architecture, then, with its two orders, was clumsily copied and varied
by the Romans with no particular result, until they begun to bring the arch into extensive
practical service; except only that the Doric capital was spoiled in endeavors to mend it,
and the Corinthian much varied and enriched with fanciful, and often very beautiful imagery.
And in this state of things came Christianity: seized upon the arch as her own; decorated it,
and delighted in it; invented a new Doric capital to replace the spoiled Roman one: and all
over the Roman empire set to work, with such materials as were nearest at hand, to express
and adorn herself as best she could. This Roman Christian architecture is the exact expression
of the Christianity of the time, very fervid and beautiful--but very imperfect; in many respects
ignorant, and yet radiant with a strong, childlike light of imagination, which flames up under
Constantine, illumines all the shores of the Bosphorus and the Aegean and the Adriatic Sea,
and then gradually, as the people give themselves up to idolatry, becomes Corpse-light. The
architecture sinks into a settled form--a strange, gilded, and embalmed repose: it, with the
religion it expressed; and so would have remained for ever,--so does remain, where its languor
has been undisturbed. [Footnote: The reader will find the weak points of Byzantine architecture
shrewdly seized, and exquisitely sketched, in the opening chapter of the most delightful book
of travels I ever opened,-- Curzon's "Monasteries of the Levant."] But rough wakening was ordained.

Section XXI. This Christian art of the declining empire is divided into two great branches,
western and eastern; one centred at Rome, the other at Byzantium, of which the one is the early
Christian Romanesque, properly so called, and the other, carried to higher imaginative perfection
by Greek workmen, is distinguished from it as Byzantine. But I wish the reader, for the present,
to class these two branches of art together in his mind, they being, in points of main importance,
the same; that is to say, both of them a true continuance and sequence of the art of old Rome
itself, flowing uninterruptedly down from the fountain-head, and entrusted always to the best
workmen who could be found--Latins in Italy and Greeks in Greece; and thus both branches may
be ranged under the general term of Christian Romanesque, an architecture which had lost the
refinement of Pagan art in the degradation of the empire, but which was elevated by Christianity
to higher aims, and by the fancy of the Greek workmen endowed with brighter forms. And this
art the reader may conceive as extending in its various branches over all the central provinces
of the empire, taking aspects more or less refined, according to its proximity to the seats
of government; dependent for all its power on the vigor and freshness of the religion which
animated it; and as that vigor and purity departed, losing its own vitality, and sinking into
nerveless rest, not deprived of its beauty, but benumbed and incapable of advance or change.

SECTION XXII. Meantime there had been preparation for its renewal. While in Rome and Constantinople,
and in the districts under their immediate influence, this Roman art of pure descent was practised
in all its refinement, an impure form of it--a patois of Romanesque--was carried by inferior
workmen into distant provinces; and still ruder imitations of this patois were executed by
the barbarous nations on the skirts of the empire. But these barbarous nations were in the
strength of their youth; and while, in the centre of Europe, a refined and purely descended
art was sinking into graceful formalism, on its confines a barbarous and borrowed art was organizing
itself into strength and consistency. The reader must therefore consider the history of the
work of the period as broadly divided into two great heads: the one embracing the elaborately
languid succession of the Christian art of Rome; and the other, the imitations of it executed
by nations in every conceivable phase of early organization, on the edges of the empire, or
included in its now merely nominal extent.

SECTION XXIII. Some of the barbaric nations were, of course, not susceptible of this influence;
and when they burst over the Alps, appear, like the Huns, as scourges only, or mix, as the
Ostrogoths, with the enervated Italians, and give physical strength to the mass with which
they mingle, without materially affecting its intellectual character. But others, both south
and north of the empire, had felt its influence, back to the beach of the Indian Ocean on the
one hand, and to the ice creeks of the North Sea on the other. On the north and west the influence
was of the Latins; on the south and east, of the Greeks. Two nations, pre-eminent above all
the rest, represent to us the force of derived mind on either side. As the central power is
eclipsed, the orbs of reflected light gather into their fulness; and when sensuality and idolatry
had done their work, and the religion of the empire was laid asleep in a glittering sepulchre,
the living light rose upon both horizons, and the fierce swords of the Lombard and Arab were
shaken over its golden paralysis.

SECTION XXIV. The work of the Lombard was to give hardihood and system to the enervated body
and enfeebled mind of Christendom; that of the Arab was to punish idolatry, and to proclaim
the spirituality of worship. The Lombard covered every church which he built with the sculptured
representations of bodily exercises--hunting and war. [Footnote: Appendix 8, "The Northern
Energy."] The Arab banished all imagination of creature form from his temples, and proclaimed
from their minarets, "There is no god but God." Opposite in their character and mission, alike
in their magnificence of energy, they came from the North, and from the South, the glacier
torrent and the lava stream: they met and contended over the wreck of the Roman empire; and
the very centre of the struggle, the point of pause of both, the dead water of the opposite
eddies, charged with embayed fragments of the Roman wreck, is VENICE.

The Ducal palace of Venice contains the three elements in exactly equal proportions--the Roman,
Lombard, and Arab. It is the central building of the world.

SECTION XXV. The reader will now begin to understand something of the importance of the study
of the edifices of a city which includes, within the circuit of some seven or eight miles,
the field of contest between the three pre-eminent architectures of the world:--each architecture
expressing a condition of religion; each an erroneous condition, yet necessary to the correction
of the others, and corrected by them.

SECTION XXVI. It will be part of my endeavor, in the following work, to mark the various modes
in which the northern and southern architectures were developed from the Roman: here I must
pause only to name the distinguishing characteristics of the great families. The Christian
Roman and Byzantine work is round-arched, with single and well-proportioned shafts; capitals
imitated from classical Roman; mouldings more or less so; and large surfaces of walls entirely
covered with imagery, mosaic, and paintings, whether of scripture history or of sacred symbols.

The Arab school is at first the same in its principal features, the Byzantine workmen being
employed by the caliphs; but the Arab rapidly introduces characters half Persepolitan, half
Egyptian, into the shafts and capitals: in his intense love of excitement he points the arch
and writhes it into extravagant foliations; he banishes the animal imagery, and invents an
ornamentation of his own (called Arabesque) to replace it: this not being adapted for covering
large surfaces, he concentrates it on features of interest, and bars his surfaces with horizontal
lines of color, the expression of the level of the Desert. He retains the dome, and adds the
minaret. All is done with exquisite refinement.

SECTION XXVII. The changes effected by the Lombard are more curious still, for they are in
the anatomy of the building, more than its decoration. The Lombard architecture represents,
as I said, the whole of that of the northern barbaric nations. And this I believe was, at first,
an imitation in wood of the Christian Roman churches or basilicas. Without staying to examine
the whole structure of a basilica, the reader will easily understand thus much of it: that
it had a nave and two aisles, the nave much higher than the aisles; that the nave was separated
from the aisles by rows of shafts, which supported, above, large spaces of flat or dead wall,
rising above the aisles, and forming the upper part of the nave, now called the clerestory,
which had a gabled wooden roof.

These high dead walls were, in Roman work, built of stone; but in the wooden work of the North,
they must necessarily have been made of horizontal boards or timbers attached to uprights on
the top of the nave pillars, which were themselves also of wood. [Footnote: Appendix 9, "Wooden
Churches of the North."] Now, these uprights were necessarily thicker than the rest of the
timbers, and formed vertical square pilasters above the nave piers. As Christianity extended
and civilization increased, these wooden structures were changed into stone; but they were
literally petrified, retaining the form which had been made necessary by their being of wood.
The upright pilaster above the nave pier remains in the stone edifice, and is the first form
of the great distinctive feature of Northern architecture--the vaulting shaft. In that form
the Lombards brought it into Italy, in the seventh century, and it remains to this day in St.
Ambrogio of Milan, and St. Michele of Pavia.

SECTION XXVIII. When the vaulting shaft was introduced in the clerestory walls, additional
members were added for its support to the nave piers. Perhaps two or three pine trunks, used
for a single pillar, gave the first idea of the grouped shaft. Be that as it may, the arrangement
of the nave pier in the form of a cross accompanies the superimposition of the vaulting shaft;
together with corresponding grouping of minor shafts in doorways and apertures of windows.
Thus, the whole body of the Northern architecture, represented by that of the Lombards, may
be described as rough but majestic work, round-arched, with grouped shafts, added vaulting
shafts, and endless imagery of active life and fantastic superstitions.

SECTION XXIX. The glacier stream of the Lombards, and the following one of the Normans, left
their erratic blocks, wherever they had flowed; but without influencing, I think, the Southern
nations beyond the sphere of their own presence. But the lava stream of the Arab, even after
it ceased to flow, warmed the whole of the Northern air; and the history of Gothic architecture
is the history of the refinement and spiritualization of Northern work under its influence.
The noblest buildings of the world, the Pisan-Romanesque, Tuscan (Giottesque) Gothic, and Veronese
Gothic, are those of the Lombard schools themselves, under its close and direct influence;
the various Gothics of the North are the original forms of the architecture which the Lombards
brought into Italy, changing under the less direct influence of the Arab.

SECTION XXX. Understanding thus much of the formation of the great European styles, we shall
have no difficulty in tracing the succession of architectures in Venice herself. From what
I said of the central character of Venetian art, the reader is not, of course, to conclude
that the Roman, Northern, and Arabian elements met together and contended for the mastery at
the same period. The earliest element was the pure Christian Roman; but few, if any, remains
of this art exist at Venice; for the present city was in the earliest times only one of many
settlements formed on the chain of marshy islands which extend from the mouths of the Isonzo
to those of the Adige, and it was not until the beginning of the ninth century that it became
the seat of government; while the cathedral of Torcello, though Christian Roman in general
form, was rebuilt in the eleventh century, and shows evidence of Byzantine workmanship in many
of its details. This cathedral, however, with the church of Santa Fosca at Torcello, San Giacomo
di Rialto at Venice, and the crypt of St. Mark's, forms a distinct group of buildings, in which
the Byzantine influence is exceedingly slight; and which is probably very sufficiently representative
of the earliest architecture on the islands.

SECTION XXXI. The Ducal residence was removed to Venice in 809, and the body of St. Mark was
brought from Alexandria twenty years later. The first church of St. Mark's was, doubtless,
built in imitation of that destroyed at Alexandria, and from which the relics of the saint
had been obtained. During the ninth, tenth, and eleventh centuries, the architecture of Venice
seems to have been formed on the same model, and is almost identical with that of Cairo under
the caliphs, [Footnote: Appendix 10, "Church of Alexandria."] it being quite immaterial whether
the reader chooses to call both Byzantine or both Arabic; the workmen being certainly Byzantine,
but forced to the invention of new forms by their Arabian masters, and bringing these forms
into use in whatever other parts of the world they were employed.

To this first manner of Venetian architecture, together with such vestiges as remain of the
Christian Roman, I shall devote the first division of the following inquiry. The examples remaining
of it consist of three noble churches (those of Torcello, Murano, and the greater part of St.
Mark's), and about ten or twelve fragments of palaces.

SECTION XXXII. To this style succeeds a transitional one, of a character much more distinctly
Arabian: the shafts become more slender, and the arches consistently pointed, instead of round;
certain other changes, not to be enumerated in a sentence, taking place in the capitals and
mouldings. This style is almost exclusively secular. It was natural for the Venetians to imitate
the beautiful details of the Arabian dwelling-house, while they would with reluctance adopt
those of the mosque for Christian churches.

I have not succeeded in fixing limiting dates for this style. It appears in part contemporary
with the Byzantine manner, but outlives it. Its position is, however, fixed by the central
date, 1180, that of the elevation of the granite shafts of the Piazetta, whose capitals are
the two most important pieces of detail in this transitional style in Venice. Examples of its
application to domestic buildings exist in almost every street of the city, and will form the
subject of the second division of the following essay.

SECTION XXXIII. The Venetians were always ready to receive lessons in art from their enemies
(else had there been no Arab work in Venice). But their especial dread and hatred of the Lombards
appears to have long prevented them from receiving the influence of the art which that people
had introduced on the mainland of Italy. Nevertheless, during the practice of the two styles
above distinguished, a peculiar and very primitive condition of pointed Gothic had arisen in
ecclesiastical architecture. It appears to be a feeble reflection of the Lombard-Arab forms,
which were attaining perfection upon the continent, and would probably, if left to itself,
have been soon merged in the Venetian-Arab school, with which it had from the first so close
a fellowship, that it will be found difficult to distinguish the Arabian ogives from those
which seem to have been built under this early Gothic influence. The churches of San Giacopo
dell' Orio, San Giovanni in Bragora, the Carmine, and one or two more, furnish the only important
examples of it. But, in the thirteenth century, the Franciscans and Dominicans introduced from
the continent their morality and their architecture, already a distinct Gothic, curiously developed
from Lombardic and Northern (German?) forms; and the influence of the principles exhibited
in the vast churches of St. Paul and the Frari began rapidly to affect the Venetian-Arab school.
Still the two systems never became united; the Venetian policy repressed the power of the church,
and the Venetian artists resisted its example; and thenceforward the architecture of the city
becomes divided into ecclesiastical and civil: the one an ungraceful yet powerful form of the
Western Gothic, common to the whole peninsula, and only showing Venetian sympathies in the
adoption of certain characteristic mouldings; the other a rich, luxuriant, and entirely original
Gothic, formed from the Venetian-Arab by the influence of the Dominican and Franciscan architecture,
and especially by the engrafting upon the Arab forms of the most novel feature of the Franciscan
work, its traceries. These various forms of Gothic, the distinctive architecture of Venice,
chiefly represented by the churches of St. John and Paul, the Frari, and San Stefano, on the
ecclesiastical side, and by the Ducal palace, and the other principal Gothic palaces, on the
secular side, will be the subject of the third division of the essay.

SECTION XXXIV. Now observe. The transitional (or especially Arabic) style of the Venetian work
is centralized by the date 1180, and is transformed gradually into the Gothic, which extends
in its purity from the middle of the thirteenth to the beginning of the fifteenth century;
that is to say, over the precise period which I have described as the central epoch of the
life of Venice. I dated her decline from the year 1418; Foscari became doge five years later,
and in his reign the first marked signs appear in architecture of that mighty change which
Philippe de Commynes notices as above, the change to which London owes St. Paul's, Rome St.
Peter's, Venice and Vicenza the edifices commonly supposed to be their noblest, and Europe
in general the degradation of every art she has since practised.

SECTION XXXV. This change appears first in a loss of truth and vitality in existing architecture
all over the world. (Compare "Seven Lamps," chap. ii.)

All the Gothics in existence, southern or northern, were corrupted at once: the German and
French lost themselves in every species of extravagance; the English Gothic was confined, in
its insanity, by a strait-waistcoat of perpendicular lines; the Italian effloresced on the
main land into the meaningless ornamentation of the Certosa of Pavia and the Cathedral of Como,
(a style sometimes ignorantly called Italian Gothic), and at Venice into the insipid confusion
of the Porta della Carta and wild crockets of St. Mark's. This corruption of all architecture,
especially ecclesiastical, corresponded with, and marked the state of religion over all Europe,--the
peculiar degradation of the Romanist superstition, and of public morality in consequence, which
brought about the Reformation.

SECTION XXXVI. Against the corrupted papacy arose two great divisions of adversaries, Protestants
in Germany and England, Rationalists in France and Italy; the one requiring the purification
of religion, the other its destruction. The Protestant kept the religion, but cast aside the
heresies of Rome, and with them her arts, by which last rejection he injured his own character,
cramped his intellect in refusing to it one of its noblest exercises, and materially diminished
his influence. It may be a serious question how far the Pausing of the Reformation has been
a consequence of this error.

The Rationalist kept the arts and cast aside the religion. This rationalistic art is the art
commonly called Renaissance, marked by a return to pagan systems, not to adopt them and hallow
them for Christianity, but to rank itself under them as an imitator and pupil. In Painting
it is headed by Giulio Romano and Nicolo Poussin; in Architecture by Sansovino and Palladio.

SECTION XXXVII. Instant degradation followed in every direction,--a flood of folly and hypocrisy.
Mythologies ill understood at first, then perverted into feeble sensualities, take the place
of the representations of Christian subjects, which had become blasphemous under the treatment
of men like the Caracci. Gods without power, satyrs without rusticity, nymphs without innocence,
men without humanity, gather into idiot groups upon the polluted canvas, and scenic affectations
encumber the streets with preposterous marble. Lower and lower declines the level of abused
intellect; the base school of landscape [Footnote: Appendix II, "Renaissance Landscape."] gradually
usurps the place of the historical painting, which had sunk into prurient pedantry,--the Alsatian
sublimities of Salvator, the confectionery idealities of Claude, the dull manufacture of Gaspar
and Canaletto, south of the Alps, and on the north the patient devotion of besotted lives to
delineation of bricks and fogs, fat cattle and ditchwater. And thus Christianity and morality,
courage, and intellect, and art all crumbling together into one wreck, we are hurried on to
the fall of Italy, the revolution in France, and the condition of art in England (saved by
her Protestantism from severer penalty) in the time of George II.

SECTION XXXVIII. I have not written in vain if I have heretofore done anything towards diminishing
the reputation of the Renaissance landscape painting. But the harm which has been done by Claude
and the Poussins is as nothing when compared to the mischief effected by Palladio, Scamozzi,
and Sansovino. Claude and the Poussins were weak men, and have had no serious influence on
the general mind. There is little harm in their works being purchased at high prices: their
real influence is very slight, and they may be left without grave indignation to their poor
mission of furnishing drawing-rooms and assisting stranded conversation. Not so the Renaissance
architecture. Raised at once into all the magnificence of which it was capable by Michael Angelo,
then taken up by men of real intellect and imagination, such as Scamozzi, Sansovino, Inigo
Jones, and Wren, it is impossible to estimate the extent of its influence on the European mind;
and that the more, because few persons are concerned with painting, and, of those few, the
larger number regard it with slight attention; but all men are concerned with architecture,
and have at some time of their lives serious business with it. It does not much matter that
an individual loses two or three hundred pounds in buying a bad picture, but it is to be regretted
that a nation should lose two or three hundred thousand in raising a ridiculous building. Nor
is it merely wasted wealth or distempered conception which we have to regret in this Renaissance
architecture: but we shall find in it partly the root, partly the expression, of certain dominant
evils of modern times--over-sophistication and ignorant classicalism; the one destroying the
healthfulness of general society, the other rendering our schools and universities useless
to a large number of the men who pass through them.

Now Venice, as she was once the most religious, was in her fall the most corrupt, of European
states; and as she was in her strength the centre of the pure currents of Christian architecture,
so she is in her decline the source of the Renaissance. It was the originality and splendor
of the palaces of Vicenza and Venice which gave this school its eminence in the eyes of Europe;
and the dying city, magnificent in her dissipation, and graceful in her follies, obtained wider
worship in her decrepitude than in her youth, and sank from the midst of her admirers into
the grave.

SECTION XXXIX. It is in Venice, therefore, and in Venice only that effectual blows can be struck
at this pestilent art of the Renaissance. Destroy its claims to admiration there, and it can
assert them nowhere else. This, therefore, will be the final purpose of the following essay.
I shall not devote a fourth section to Palladio, nor weary the reader with successive chapters
of vituperation; but I shall, in my account of the earlier architecture, compare the forms
of all its leading features with those into which they were corrupted by the Classicalists;
and pause, in the close, on the edge of the precipice of decline, so soon as I have made its
depths discernible. In doing this I shall depend upon two distinct kinds of evidence:--the
first, the testimony borne by particular incidents and facts to a want of thought or of feeling
in the builders; from which we may conclude that their architecture must be bad:--the second,
the sense, which I doubt not I shall be able to excite in the reader, of a systematic ugliness
in the architecture itself. Of the first kind of testimony I shall here give two instances,
which may be immediately useful in fixing in the reader's mind the epoch above indicated for
the commencement of decline.

SECTION XL. I must again refer to the importance which I have above attached to the death of
Carlo Zeno and the doge Tomaso Mocenigo. The tomb of that doge is, as I said, wrought by a
Florentine; but it is of the same general type and feeling as all the Venetian tombs of the
period, and it is one of the last which retains it. The classical element enters largely into
its details, but the feeling of the whole is as yet unaffected. Like all the lovely tombs of
Venice and Verona, it is a sarcophagus with a recumbent figure above, and this figure is a
faithful but tender portrait, wrought as far as it can be without painfulness, of the doge
as he lay in death. He wears his ducal robe and bonnet--his head is laid slightly aside upon
his pillow--his hands are simply crossed as they fall. The face is emaciated, the features
large, but so pure and lordly in their natural chiselling, that they must have looked like
marble even in their animation. They are deeply worn away by thought and death; the veins on
the temples branched and starting; the skin gathered in sharp folds; the brow high-arched and
shaggy; the eye-ball magnificently large; the curve of the lips just veiled by the light mustache
at the side; the beard short, double, and sharp-pointed: all noble and quiet; the white sepulchral
dust marking like light the stern angles of the cheek and brow.

This tomb was sculptured in 1424, and is thus described by one of the most intelligent of the
recent writers who represent the popular feeling respecting Venetian art.

    "Of the Italian school is also the rich but ugly (ricco ma non
    bel) sarcophagus in which repose the ashes of Tomaso Mocenigo.
    It may be called one of the last links which connect the
    declining art of the Middle Ages with that of the Renaissance,
    which was in its rise. We will not stay to particularize the
    defects of each of the seven figures of the front and sides,
    which represent the cardinal and theological virtues; nor will
    we make any remarks upon those which stand in the niches above
    the pavilion, because we consider them unworthy both of the age
    and reputation of the Florentine school, which was then with
    reason considered the most notable in Italy." [Footnote:
    Selvatico, "Architettura di Venezia," p. 147.]

It is well, indeed, not to pause over these defects; but it might have been better to have
paused a moment beside that noble image of a king's mortality.

SECTION XLI. In the choir of the same church, St. Giov. and Paolo, is another tomb, that of
the Doge Andrea Vendramin. This doge died in 1478, after a short reign of two years, the most
disastrous in the annals of Venice. He died of a pestilence which followed the ravage of the
Turks, carried to the shores of the lagoons. He died, leaving Venice disgraced by sea and land,
with the smoke of hostile devastation rising in the blue distances of Friuli; and there was
raised to him the most costly tomb ever bestowed on her monarchs.

SECTION XLII. If the writer above quoted was cold beside the statue of one of the fathers of
his country, he atones for it by his eloquence beside the tomb of the Vendramin. I must not
spoil the force of Italian superlative by translation.

    "Quando si guarda a quella corretta eleganza di profili e di
    proporzioni, a quella squisitezza d'ornamenti, a quel certo
    sapore antico che senza ombra d' imitazione traspareda tutta l'
    opera"--&c. "Sopra ornatissimo zoccolo fornito di squisiti
    intagli s' alza uno stylobate"--&c. "Sotto le colonne, il
    predetto stilobate si muta leggiadramente in piedistallo, poi
    con bella novita di pensiero e di effetto va coronato da un
    fregio il piu gentile che veder si possa"--&c. "Non puossi
    lasciar senza un cenno l' arca dove sta chiuso il doge;
    capo lavoro di pensiero e di esecuzione," etc.

There are two pages and a half of closely printed praise, of which the above specimens may
suffice; but there is not a word of the statue of the dead from beginning to end. I am myself
in the habit of considering this rather an important part of a tomb, and I was especially interested
in it here, because Selvatico only echoes the praise of thousands. It is unanimously declared
the chef d'oeuvre of Renaissance sepulchral work, and pronounced by Cicognara (also quoted
by Selvatico).

    "Il vertice a cui l'arti Veneziane si spinsero col ministero del
    scalpello,"--"The very culminating point to which the Venetian
    arts attained by ministry of the chisel."

To this culminating point, therefore, covered with dust and cobwebs, I attained, as I did to
every tomb of importance in Venice, by the ministry of such ancient ladders as were to be found
in the sacristan's keeping. I was struck at first by the excessive awkwardness and want of
feeling in the fall of the hand towards the spectator, for it is thrown off the middle of the
body in order to show its fine cutting. Now the Mocenigo hand, severe and even stiff in its
articulations, has its veins finely drawn, its sculptor having justly felt that the delicacy
of the veining expresses alike dignity and age and birth. The Vendramin hand is far more laboriously
cut, but its blunt and clumsy contour at once makes us feel that all the care has been thrown
away, and well it may be, for it has been entirely bestowed in cutting gouty wrinkles about
the joints. Such as the hand is, I looked for its fellow. At first I thought it had been broken
off, but, on clearing away the dust, I saw the wretched effigy had only one hand, and was a
mere block on the inner side. The face, heavy and disagreeable in its features, is made monstrous
by its semi-sculpture. One side of the forehead is wrinkled elaborately, the other left smooth;
one side only of the doge's cap is chased; one cheek only is finished, and the other blocked
out and distorted besides; finally, the ermine robe, which is elaborately imitated to its utmost
lock of hair and of ground hair on the one side, is blocked out only on the other: it having
been supposed throughout the work that the effigy was only to be seen from below, and from
one side.

SECTION XLIII. It was indeed to be seen by nearly every one; and I do not blame--I should,
on the contrary, have praised--the sculptor for regulating his treatment of it by its position;
if that treatment had not involved, first, dishonesty, in giving only half a face, a monstrous
mask, when we demanded true portraiture of the dead; and, secondly, such utter coldness of
feeling, as could only consist with an extreme of intellectual and moral degradation: Who,
with a heart in his breast, could have stayed his hand as he drew the dim lines of the old
man's countenance--unmajestic once, indeed, but at least sanctified by the solemnities of death--could
have stayed his hand, as he reached the bend of the grey forehead, and measured out the last
veins of it at so much the zecchin.

I do not think the reader, if he has feeling, will expect that much talent should be shown
in the rest of his work, by the sculptor of this base and senseless lie. The whole monument
is one wearisome aggregation of that species of ornamental flourish, which, when it is done
with a pen, is called penmanship, and when done with a chisel, should be called chiselmanship;
the subject of it being chiefly fat-limbed boys sprawling on dolphins, dolphins incapable of
swimming, and dragged along the sea by expanded pocket-handkerchiefs.

But now, reader, comes the very gist and point of the whole matter. This lying monument to
a dishonored doge, this culminating pride of the Renaissance art of Venice, is at least veracious,
if in nothing else, in its testimony to the character of its sculptor. He was banished from
Venice for forgery in 1487. [Footnote: Selvatico, p. 221.]

SECTION XLIV. I have more to say about this convict's work hereafter; but I pass at present,
to the second, slighter, but yet more interesting piece of evidence, which I promised.

The ducal palace has two principal facades; one towards the sea, the other towards the Piazzetta.
The seaward side, and, as far as the seventh main arch inclusive, the Piazzetta side, is work
of the early part of the fourteenth century, some of it perhaps even earlier; while the rest
of the Piazzetta side is of the fifteenth. The difference in age has been gravely disputed
by the Venetian antiquaries, who have examined many documents on the subject, and quoted some
which they never examined. I have myself collated most of the written documents, and one document
more, to which the Venetian antiquaries never thought of referring,--the masonry of the palace
itself.

SECTION XLV. That masonry changes at the centre of the eighth arch from the sea angle on the
Piazzetta side. It has been of comparatively small stones up to that point; the fifteenth century
work instantly begins with larger stones, "brought from Istria, a hundred miles away." [Footnote:
The older work is of Istrian stone also, but of different quality.] The ninth shaft from the
sea in the lower arcade, and the seventeenth, which is above it, in the upper arcade, commence
the series of fifteenth century shafts. These two are somewhat thicker than the others, and
carry the party-wall of the Sala del Scrutinio. Now observe, reader. The face of the palace,
from this point to the Porta della Carta, was built at the instance of that noble Doge Mocenigo
beside whose tomb you have been standing; at his instance, and in the beginning of the reign
of his successor, Foscari; that is to say, circa 1424. This is not disputed; it is only disputed
that the sea facade is earlier; of which, however, the proofs are as simple as they are incontrovertible:
for not only the masonry, but the sculpture, changes at the ninth lower shaft, and that in
the capitals of the shafts both of the upper and lower arcade: the costumes of the figures
introduced in the sea facade being purely Giottesque, correspondent with Giotto's work in the
Arena Chapel at Padua, while the costume on the other capitals is Renaissance-Classic: and
the lions' heads between the arches change at the same point. And there are a multitude of
other evidences in the statues of the angels, with which I shall not at present trouble the reader.

SECTION XLVI. Now, the architect who built under Foscari, in 1424 (remember my date for the
decline of Venice, 1418), was obliged to follow the principal forms of the older palace. But
he had not the wit to invent new capitals in the same style; he therefore clumsily copied the
old ones. The palace has seventeen main arches on the sea facade, eighteen on the Piazzetta
side, which in all are of course carried by thirty-six pillars; and these pillars I shall always
number from right to left, from the angle of the palace at the Ponte della Paglia to that next
the Porta della Carta. I number them in this succession, because I thus have the earliest shafts
first numbered. So counted, the 1st, the 18th, and the 36th, are the great supports of the
angles of the palace; and the first of the fifteenth century series, being, as above stated,
the 9th from the sea on the Piazzetta side, is the 26th of the entire series, and will always
in future be so numbered, so that all numbers above twenty-six indicate fifteenth century work,
and all below it, fourteenth century, with some exceptional cases of restoration.

Then the copied capitals are: the 28th, copied from the 7th; the 29th, from the 9th; the 30th,
from the 10th; the 31st, from the 8th; the 33d, from the 12th; and the 34th, from the 11th;
the others being dull inventions of the 15th century, except the 36th; which is very nobly
designed.

SECTION XLVII. The capitals thus selected from the earlier portion of the palace for imitation,
together with the rest, will be accurately described hereafter; the point I have here to notice
is in the copy of the ninth capital, which was decorated (being, like the rest, octagonal)
with figures of the eight Virtues:--Faith, Hope, Charity, Justice, Temperance, Prudence, Humility
(the Venetian antiquaries call it Humanity!), and Fortitude. The Virtues of the fourteenth
century are somewhat hard-featured; with vivid and living expression, and plain every-day clothes
of the time. Charity has her lap full of apples (perhaps loaves), and is giving one to a little
child, who stretches his arm for it across a gap in the leafage of the capital. Fortitude tears
open a lion's jaws; Faith lays her hand on her breast, as she beholds the Cross; and Hope is
praying, while above her a hand is seen emerging from sunbeams--the hand of God (according
to that of Revelations, "The Lord God giveth them light"); and the inscription above is, "Spes
optima in Deo."

SECTION XLVIII. This design, then, is, rudely and with imperfect chiselling, imitated by the
fifteenth century workmen: the Virtues have lost their hard features and living expression;
they have now all got Roman noses, and have had their hair curled. Their actions and emblems
are, however, preserved until we come to Hope: she is still praying, but she is praying to
the sun only: The hand of God is gone.

Is not this a curious and striking type of the spirit which had then become dominant in the
world, forgetting to see God's hand in the light He gave; so that in the issue, when the light
opened into the Reformation on the one side, and into full knowledge of ancient literature
on the other, the one was arrested and the other perverted?

SECTION XLIX. Such is the nature of the accidental evidence on which I shall depend for the
proof of the inferiority of character in the Renaissance workmen. But the proof of the inferiority
of the work itself is not so easy, for in this I have to appeal to judgments which the Renaissance
work has itself distorted. I felt this difficulty very forcibly as I read a slight review of
my former work, "The Seven Lamps," in "The Architect:" the writer noticed my constant praise
of St. Mark's: "Mr. Ruskin thinks it a very beautiful building! We," said the Architect, "think
it a very ugly building." I was not surprised at the difference of opinion, but at the thing
being considered so completely a subject of opinion. My opponents in matters of painting always
assume that there is such a thing as a law of right, and that I do not understand it: but my
architectural adversaries appeal to no law, they simply set their opinion against mine; and
indeed there is no law at present to which either they or I can appeal. No man can speak with
rational decision of the merits or demerits of buildings: he may with obstinacy; he may with
resolved adherence to previous prejudices; but never as if the matter could be otherwise decided
than by a majority of votes, or pertinacity of partisanship. I had always, however, a clear
conviction that there was a law in this matter: that good architecture might be indisputably
discerned and divided from the bad; that the opposition in their very nature and essence was
clearly visible; and that we were all of us just as unwise in disputing about the matter without
reference to principle, as we should be for debating about the genuineness of a coin, without
ringing it. I felt also assured that this law must be universal if it were conclusive; that
it must enable us to reject all foolish and base work, and to accept all noble and wise work,
without reference to style or national feeling; that it must sanction the design of all truly
great nations and times, Gothic or Greek or Arab; that it must cast off and reprobate the design
of all foolish nations and times, Chinese or Mexican, or modern European: and that it must
be easily applicable to all possible architectural inventions of human mind. I set myself,
therefore, to establish such a law, in full belief that men are intended, without excessive
difficulty, and by use of their general common sense, to know good things from bad; and that
it is only because they will not be at the pains required for the discernment, that the world
is so widely encumbered with forgeries and basenesses. I found the work simpler than I had
hoped; the reasonable things ranged themselves in the order I required, and the foolish things
fell aside, and took themselves away so soon as they were looked in the face. I had then, with
respect to Venetian architecture, the choice, either to establish each division of law in a
separate form, as I came to the features with which it was concerned, or else to ask the reader's
patience, while I followed out the general inquiry first, and determined with him a code of
right and wrong, to which we might together make retrospective appeal. I thought this the best,
though perhaps the dullest way; and in these first following pages I have therefore endeavored
to arrange those foundations of criticism, on which I shall rest in my account of Venetian
architecture, in a form clear and simple enough to be intelligible even to those who never
thought of architecture before. To those who have, much of what is stated in them will be well
known or self-evident; but they must not be indignant at a simplicity on which the whole argument
depends for its usefulness. From that which appears a mere truism when first stated, they will
find very singular consequences sometimes following,--consequences altogether unexpected, and
of considerable importance; I will not pause here to dwell on their importance, nor on that
of the thing itself to be done; for I believe most readers will at once admit the value of
a criterion of right and wrong in so practical and costly an art as architecture, and will
be apt rather to doubt the possibility of its attainment than dispute its usefulness if attained.
I invite them, therefore, to a fair trial, being certain that even if I should fail in my main
purpose, and be unable to induce in my reader the confidence of judgment I desire, I shall
at least receive his thanks for the suggestion of consistent reasons, which may determine hesitating
choice, or justify involuntary preference. And if I should succeed, as I hope, in making the
Stones of Venice touchstones, and detecting, by the mouldering of her marble, poison more subtle
than ever was betrayed by the rending of her crystal; and if thus I am enabled to show the
baseness of the schools of architecture and nearly every other art, which have for three centuries
been predominant in Europe, I believe the result of the inquiry may be serviceable for proof
of a more vital truth than any at which I have hitherto hinted. For observe: I said the Protestant
had despised the arts, and the Rationalist corrupted them. But what has the Romanist done meanwhile?
He boasts that it was the papacy which raised the arts; why could it not support them when
it was left to its own strength? How came it to yield to Classicalism which was based on infidelity,
and to oppose no barrier to innovations, which have reduced the once faithfully conceived imagery
of its worship to stage decoration? [Footnote: Appendix XII., "Romanist Modern Art."] Shall
we not rather find that Romanism, instead of being a promoter of the arts, has never shown
itself capable of a single great conception since the separation of Protestantism from its
side? [Footnote: Perfectly true: but the whole vital value of the truth was lost by my sectarian
ignorance. Protestantism (so far as it was still Christianity, and did not consist merely in
maintaining one's own opinion for gospel) could not separate itself from the Catholic Church.
The so-called Catholics became themselves sectarians and heretics in casting them out; and
Europe was turned into a mere cockpit, of the theft and fury of unchristian men of both parties;
while innocent and silent on the hills and fields, God's people in neglected peace, everywhere
and for ever Catholics, lived and died.] So long as, corrupt though it might be, no clear witness
had been borne against it, so that it still included in its ranks a vast number of faithful
Christians, so long its arts were noble. But the witness was borne--the error made apparent;
and Rome, refusing to hear the testimony or forsake the falsehood, has been struck from that
instant with an intellectual palsy, which has not only incapacitated her from any further use
of the arts which once were her ministers, but has made her worship the shame of its own shrines,
and her worshippers their destroyers. Come, then, if truths such as these are worth our thoughts;
come, and let us know, before we enter the streets of the Sea city, whether we are indeed to
submit ourselves to their undistinguished enchantment, and to look upon the last changes which
were wrought on the lifted forms of her palaces, as we should on the capricious towering of
summer clouds in the sunset, ere they sank into the deep of night; or, whether, rather, we
shall not behold in the brightness of their accumulated marble, pages on which the sentence
of her luxury was to be written until the waves should efface it, as they fulfilled--"God has
numbered thy kingdom, and finished it."

CHAPTER II.

[FIRST OF SECOND VOLUME IN OLD EDITION.]

THE THRONE.

SECTION I. In the olden days of travelling, now to return no more, in which distance could
not be vanquished without toil, but in which that toil was rewarded, partly by the power of
deliberate survey of the countries through which the journey lay, and partly by the happiness
of the evening hours, when, from the top of the last hill he had surmounted, the traveller
beheld the quiet village where he was to rest, scattered among the meadows beside its valley
stream; or, from the long-hoped-for turn in the dusty perspective of the causeway, saw, for
the first time, the towers of some famed city, faint in the rays of sunset--hours of peaceful
and thoughtful pleasure, for which the rush of the arrival in the railway station is perhaps
not always, or to all men, an equivalent,--in those days, I say, when there was something more
to be anticipated and remembered in the first aspect of each successive halting-place, than
a new arrangement of glass roofing and iron girder, there were few moments of which the recollection
was more fondly cherished by the traveller than that which, as I endeavored to describe in
the close of the last chapter, brought him within sight of Venice, as his gondola shot into
the open lagoon from the canal of Mestre. Not but that the aspect of the city itself was generally
the source of some slight disappointment, for, seen in this direction, its buildings are far
less characteristic than those of the other great towns of Italy; but this inferiority was
partly disguised by distance, and more than atoned for by the strange rising of its walls and
towers out of the midst, as it seemed, of the deep sea, for it was impossible that the mind
or the eye could at once comprehend the shallowness of the vast sheet of water which stretched
away in leagues of rippling lustre to the north and south, or trace the narrow line of islets
bounding it to the east. The salt breeze, the white moaning sea-birds, the masses of black
weed separating and disappearing gradually, in knots of heaving shoal, under the advance of
the steady tide, all proclaimed it to be indeed the ocean on whose bosom the great city rested
so calmly; not such blue, soft, lake-like ocean as bathes the Neapolitan promontories, or sleeps
beneath the marble rocks of Genoa, but a sea with the bleak power of our own northern waves,
yet subdued into a strange spacious rest, and changed from its angry pallor into a field of
burnished gold, as the sun declined behind the belfry tower of the lonely island church, fitly
named "St. George of the Seaweed." As the boat drew nearer to the city, the coast which the
traveller had just left sank behind him into one long, low, sad-colored line, tufted irregularly
with brushwood and willows: but, at what seemed its northern extremity, the hills of Arqua
rose in a dark cluster of purple pyramids, balanced on the bright mirage of the lagoon; two
or three smooth surges of inferior hill extended themselves about their roots, and beyond these,
beginning with the craggy peaks above Vicenza, the chain of the Alps girded the whole horizon
to the north--a wall of jagged blue, here and there showing through its clefts a wilderness
of misty precipices, fading far back into the recesses of Cadore, and itself rising and breaking
away eastward, where the sun struck opposite upon its snow, into mighty fragments of peaked
light, standing up behind the barred clouds of evening, one after another, countless, the crown
of the Adrian Sea, until the eye turned back from pursuing them, to rest upon the nearer burning
of the campaniles of Murano, and on the great city, where it magnified itself along the waves,
as the quick silent pacing of the gondola drew nearer and nearer. And at last, when its walls
were reached, and the outmost of its untrodden streets was entered, not through towered gate
or guarded rampart, but as a deep inlet between two rocks of coral in the Indian sea; when
first upon the traveller's sight opened the long ranges of columned palaces,--each with its
black boat moored at the portal,--each with its image cast down, beneath its feet, upon that
green pavement which every breeze broke into new fantasies of rich tessellation; when first,
at the extremity of the bright vista, the shadowy Rialto threw its colossal curve slowly forth
from behind the palace of the Camerlenghi; that strange curve, so delicate, so adamantine,
strong as a mountain cavern, graceful as a bow just bent; when first, before its moonlike circumference
was all risen, the gondolier's cry, "Ah! Stali," [Footnote: Appendix I, "The Gondolier's Cry."]
struck sharp upon the ear, and the prow turned aside under the mighty cornices that half met
over the narrow canal, where the plash of the water followed close and loud, ringing along
the marble by the boat's side, and when at last that boat darted forth upon the breadth of
silver sea, across which the front of the Ducal palace, flushed with its sanguine veins, looks
to the snowy dome of Our Lady of Salvation, [Footnote: Appendix II, "Our Lady of Salvation."]
it was no marvel that the mind should be so deeply entranced by the visionary charm of a scene
so beautiful and so strange, as to forget the darker truths of its history and its being. Well
might it seem that such a city had owed her existence rather to the rod of the enchanter, than
the fear of the fugitive; that the waters which encircled her had been chosen for the mirror
of her state, rather than the shelter of her nakedness; and that all which in nature was wild
or merciless,--Time and Decay, as well as the waves and tempests,--had been won to adorn her
instead of to destroy, and might still spare, for ages to come, that beauty which seemed to
have fixed for its throne the sands of the hour-glass as well as of the sea.

SECTION II. And although the last few eventful years, fraught with change to the face of the
whole earth, have been more fatal in their influence on Venice than the five hundred that preceded
them; though the noble landscape of approach to her can now be seen no more, or seen only by
a glance, as the engine slackens its rushing on the iron line; and though many of her palaces
are for ever defaced, and many in desecrated ruins, there is still so much of magic in her
aspect, that the hurried traveller, who must leave her before the wonder of that first aspect
has been worn away, may still be led to forget the humility of her origin, and to shut his
eyes to the depth of her desolation. They, at least, are little to be envied, in whose hearts
the great charities of the imagination lie dead, and for whom the fancy has no power to repress
the importunity of painful impressions, or to raise what is ignoble, and disguise what is discordant,
in a scene so rich in its remembrances, so surpassing in its beauty. But for this work of the
imagination there must be no permission during the task which is before us. The impotent feeling
of romance, so singularly characteristic of this century, may indeed gild, but never save the
remains of those mightier ages to which they are attached like climbing flowers; and they must
be torn away from the magnificent fragments, if we would see them as they stood in their own
strength. Those feelings, always as fruitless as they are fond, are in Venice not only incapable
of protecting, but even of discerning, the objects of which they ought to have been attached.
The Venice of modern fiction and drama is a thing of yesterday, a mere efflorescence of decay,
a stage dream which the first ray of daylight must dissipate into dust. No prisoner, whose
name is worth remembering, or whose sorrow deserved sympathy, ever crossed that "Bridge of
Sighs," which is the centre of the Byronic ideal of Venice; no great merchant of Venice ever
saw that Rialto under which the traveller now passes with breathless interest: the statue which
Byron makes Faliero address as of one of his great ancestors was erected to a soldier of fortune
a hundred and fifty years after Faliero's death; and the most conspicuous parts of the city
have been so entirely altered in the course of the last three centuries, that if Henry Dandolo
or Francis Foscari could be summoned from their tombs, and stood each on the deck of his galley
at the entrance of the Grand Canal, that renowned entrance, the painter's favorite subject,
the novelist's favorite scene, where the water first narrows by the steps of the Church of
La Salute,--the mighty Doges would not know in what spot of the world they stood, would literally
not recognize one stone of the great city, for whose sake, and by whose ingratitude, their
gray hairs had been brought down with bitterness to the grave. The remains of their Venice
lie hidden behind the cumbrous masses which were the delight of the nation in its dotage; hidden
in many a grass-grown court, and silent pathway, and lightless canal, where the slow waves
have sapped their foundations for five hundred years, and must soon prevail over them for ever.
It must be our task to glean and gather them forth, and restore out of them some faint image
of the lost city, more gorgeous a thousand-fold than that which now exists, yet not created
in the day-dream of the prince, nor by the ostentation of the noble, but built by iron hands
and patient hearts, contending against the adversity of nature and the fury of man, so that
its wonderfulness cannot be grasped by the indolence of imagination, but only after frank inquiry
into the true nature of that wild and solitary scene, whose restless tides and trembling sands
did indeed shelter the birth of the city, but long denied her dominion.

SECTION III. When the eye falls casually on a map of Europe, there is no feature by which it
is more likely to be arrested than the strange sweeping loop formed by the junction of the
Alps and the Apennines, and enclosing the great basin of Lombardy. This return of the mountain
chain upon itself causes a vast difference in the character of the distribution of its debris
on its opposite sides. The rock fragments and sediment which the torrents on the north side
of the Alps bear into the plains are distributed over a vast extent of country, and, though
here and there lodged in beds of enormous thickness, soon permit the firm substrata to appear
from underneath them; but all the torrents which descend from the southern side of the High
Alps, and from the northern slope of the Apennines, meet concentrically in the recess or mountain
bay which the two ridges enclose; every fragment which thunder breaks out of their battlements,
and every grain of dust which the summer rain washes from their pastures, is at last laid at
rest in the blue sweep of the Lombardic plain; and that plain must have risen within its rocky
barriers as a cup fills with wine, but for two contrary influences which continually depress,
or disperse from its surface, the accumulation of the ruins of ages.

SECTION IV. I will not tax the reader's faith in modern science by insisting on the singular
depression of the surface of Lombardy, which appears for many centuries to have taken place
steadily and continually; the main fact with which we have to do is the gradual transport,
by the Po and its great collateral rivers, of vast masses of the finer sediment to the sea.
The character of the Lombardic plains is most strikingly expressed by the ancient walls of
its cities, composed for the most part of large rounded Alpine pebbles alternating with narrow
courses of brick; and was curiously illustrated in 1848, by the ramparts of these same pebbles
thrown up four or five feet high round every field, to check the Austrian cavalry in the battle
under the walls of Verona. The finer dust among which these pebbles are dispersed is taken
up by the rivers, fed into continual strength by the Alpine snow, so that, however pure their
waters may be when they issue from the lakes at the foot of the great chain, they become of
the color and opacity of clay before they reach the Adriatic; the sediment which they bear
is at once thrown down as they enter the sea, forming a vast belt of low land along the eastern
coast of Italy. The powerful stream of the Po of course builds forward the fastest; on each
side of it, north and south, there is a tract of marsh, fed by more feeble streams, and less
liable to rapid change than the delta of the central river. In one of these tracts is built
RAVENNA, and in the other VENICE.

SECTION V. What circumstances directed the peculiar arrangement of this great belt of sediment
in the earliest times, it is not here the place to inquire. It is enough for us to know that
from the mouths of the Adige to those of the Piave there stretches, at a variable distance
of from three to five miles from the actual shore, a bank of sand, divided into long islands
by narrow channels of sea. The space between this bank and the true shore consists of the sedimentary
deposits from these and other rivers, a great plain of calcareous mud, covered, in the neighborhood
of Venice, by the sea at high water, to the depth in most places of a foot or a foot and a
half, and nearly everywhere exposed at low tide, but divided by an intricate network of narrow
and winding channels, from which the sea never retires. In some places, according to the run
of the currents, the land has risen into marshy islets, consolidated, some by art, and some
by time, into ground firm enough to be built upon, or fruitful enough to be cultivated: in
others, on the contrary, it has not reached the sea-level; so that, at the average low water,
shallow lakelets glitter among its irregularly exposed fields of seaweed. In the midst of the
largest of these, increased in importance by the confluence of several large river channels
towards one of the openings in the sea bank, the city of Venice itself is built, on a clouded
cluster of islands; the various plots of higher ground which appear to the north and south
of this central cluster, have at different periods been also thickly inhabited, and now bear,
according to their size, the remains of cities, villages, or isolated convents and churches,
scattered among spaces of open ground, partly waste and encumbered by ruins, partly under cultivation
for the supply of the metropolis.

SECTION VI. The average rise and fall of the tide is about three feet (varying considerably
with the seasons; [Footnote: Appendix III, "Tides of Venice."]) but this fall, on so flat a
shore, is enough to cause continual movement in the waters, and in the main canals to produce
a reflux which frequently runs like a mill stream. At high water no land is visible for many
miles to the north or south of Venice, except in the form of small islands crowned with towers
or gleaming with villages: there is a channel, some three miles wide, between the city and
the mainland, and some mile and a half wide between it and the sandy breakwater called the
Lido, which divides the lagoon from the Adriatic, but which is so low as hardly to disturb
the impression of the city's having been built in the midst of the ocean, although the secret
of its true position is partly, yet not painfully, betrayed by the clusters of piles set to
mark the deep-water channels, which undulate far away in spotty chains like the studded backs
of huge sea-snakes, and by the quick glittering of the crisped and crowded waves that flicker
and dance before the strong winds upon the unlifted level of the shallow sea. But the scene
is widely different at low tide. A fall of eighteen or twenty inches is enough to show ground
over the greater part of the lagoon; and at the complete ebb the city is seen standing in the
midst of a dark plain of seaweed, of gloomy green, except only where the larger branches of
the Brenta and its associated streams converge towards the port of the Lido. Through this salt
and sombre plain the gondola and the fishing-boat advance by tortuous channels, seldom more
than four or five feet deep, and often so choked with slime that the heavier keels furrow the
bottom till their crossing tracks are seen through the clear sea water like the ruts upon a.
wintry road, and the oar leaves blue gashes upon the ground at every stroke, or is entangled
among the thick weed that fringes the banks with the weight of its sullen waves, leaning to
and fro upon the uncertain sway of the exhausted tide. The scene is often profoundly oppressive,
even at this day, when every plot of higher ground bears some fragment of fair building: but,
in order to know what it was once, let the traveller follow in his boat at evening the windings
of some unfrequented channel far into the midst of the melancholy plain; let him remove, in
his imagination, the brightness of the great city that still extends itself in the distance,
and the walls and towers from the islands that are near; and so wait, until the bright investiture
and, sweet warmth of the sunset are withdrawn from the waters, and the black desert of their
shore lies in its nakedness beneath the night, pathless, comfortless, infirm, lost in dark
languor and fearful silence, except where the salt runlets plash into the tideless pools, or
the seabirds flit from their margins with a questioning cry; and he will be enabled to enter
in some sort into the horror of heart with which this solitude was anciently chosen by man
for his habitation. They little thought, who first drove the stakes into the sand, and strewed
the ocean reeds for their rest, that their children were to be the princes of that ocean, and
their palaces its pride; and yet, in the great natural laws that rule that sorrowful wilderness,
let it be remembered what strange preparation had been made for the things which no human imagination
could have foretold, and how the whole existence and fortune of the Venetian nation were anticipated
or compelled, by the setting of those bars and doors to the rivers and the sea. Had deeper
currents divided their islands, hostile navies would again and again have reduced the rising
city into servitude; had stronger surges beaten their shores, all the richness and refinement
of the Venetian architecture must have been exchanged for the walls and bulwarks of an ordinary
sea-port. Had there been no tide, as in other parts of the Mediterranean, the narrow canals
of the city would have become noisome, and the marsh in which it was built pestiferous. Had
the tide been only a foot or eighteen inches higher in its rise, the water-access to the doors
of the palaces would have been impossible: even as it is, there is sometimes a little difficulty,
at the ebb, in landing without setting foot upon the lower and slippery steps: and the highest
tides sometimes enter the courtyards, and overflow the entrance halls. Eighteen inches more
of difference between the level of the flood and ebb would have rendered the doorsteps of every
palace, at low water, a treacherous mass of weeds and limpets, and the entire system of water-carriage
for the higher classes, in their easy and daily intercourse, must have been done away with.
The streets of the city would have been widened, its network of canals filled up, and all the
peculiar character of the place and the people destroyed.

SECTION VII. The reader may perhaps have felt some pain in the contrast between this faithful
view of the site of the Venetian Throne, and the romantic conception of it which we ordinarily
form; but this pain, if he have felt it, ought to be more than counterbalanced by the value
of the instance thus afforded to us at once of the inscrutableness and the wisdom of the ways
of God. If, two thousand years ago, we had been permitted to watch the slow settling of the
slime of those turbid rivers into the polluted sea, and the gaining upon its deep and fresh
waters of the lifeless, impassable, unvoyageable plain, how little could we have understood
the purpose with which those islands were shaped out of the void, and the torpid waters enclosed
with their desolate walls of sand! How little could we have known, any more than of what now
seems to us most distressful, dark, and objectless, the glorious aim which was then in the
mind of Him in whose hand are all the corners of the earth! how little imagined that in the
laws which were stretching forth the gloomy margins of those fruitless banks, and feeding the
bitter grass among their shallows, there was indeed a preparation, and the only preparation
possible, for the founding of a city which was to be set like a golden clasp on the girdle
of the earth, to write her history on the white scrolls of the sea-surges, and to word it in
their thunder, and to gather and give forth, in world-wide pulsation, the glory of the West
and of the East, from the burning heart of her Fortitude and Splendor.

CHAPTER III.

[SECOND OF SECOND VOLUME IN OLD EDITION.]

TORCELLO.

SECTION I. Seven miles to the north of Venice, the banks of sand, which near the city rise
little above low-water mark, attain by degrees a higher level, and knit themselves at last
into fields of salt morass, raised here and there into shapeless mounds, and intercepted by
narrow creeks of sea. One of the feeblest of these inlets, after winding for some time among
buried fragments of masonry, and knots of sunburnt weeds whitened with webs of fucus, stays
itself in an utterly stagnant pool beside a plot of greener grass covered with ground ivy and
violets. On this mound is built a rude brick campanile, of the commonest Lombardic type, which
if we ascend towards evening (and there are none to hinder us, the door of its ruinous staircase
swinging idly on its hinges), we may command from it one of the most notable scenes in this
wide world of ours. Far as the eye can reach, a waste of wild sea moor, of a lurid ashen gray;
not like our northern moors with their jet-black pools and purple heath, but lifeless, the
color of sackcloth, with the corrupted sea-water soaking through the roots of its acrid weeds,
and gleaming hither and thither through its snaky channels. No gathering of fantastic mists,
nor coursing of clouds across it; but melancholy clearness of space in the warm sunset, oppressive,
reaching to the horizon of its level gloom. To the very horizon, on the north-east; but, to
the north and west, there is a blue line of higher land along the border of it, and above this,
but farther back, a misty band of mountains, touched with snow. To the east, the paleness and
roar of the Adriatic, louder at momentary intervals as the surf breaks on the bars of sand;
to the south, the widening branches of the calm lagoon, alternately purple and pale green,
as they reflect the evening clouds or twilight sky; and almost beneath our feet, on the same
field which sustains the tower we gaze from, a group of four buildings, two of them little
larger than cottages (though built of stone, and one adorned by a quaint belfry), the third
an octagonal chapel, of which we can see but little more than the flat red roof with its rayed
tiling, the fourth, a considerable church with nave and aisles, but of which, in like manner,
we can see little but the long central ridge and lateral slopes of roof, which the sunlight
separates in one glowing mass from the green field beneath and gray moor beyond. There are
no living creatures near the buildings, nor any vestige of village or city round about them.
They lie like a little company of ships becalmed on a far-away sea.

SECTION II. Then look farther to the south. Beyond the widening branches of the lagoon, and
rising out of the bright lake into which they gather, there are a multitude of towers, dark,
and scattered among square-set shapes of clustered palaces, a long and irregular line fretting
the southern sky.

Mother and daughter, you behold them both in their widowhood,--TORCELLO and VENICE.

Thirteen hundred years ago, the gray moorland looked as it does this day, and the purple mountains
stood as radiantly in the deep distances of evening; but on the line of the horizon, there
were strange fires mixed with the light of sunset, and the lament of many human voices mixed
with the fretting of the waves on their ridges of sand. The flames rose from the ruins of Altinum;
the lament from the multitude of its people, seeking, like Israel of old, a refuge from the
sword in the paths of the sea.

The cattle are feeding and resting upon the site of the city that they left; the mower's scythe
swept this day at dawn over the chief street of the city that they built, and the swathes of
soft grass are now sending up their scent into the night air, the only incense that fills the
temple of their ancient worship. Let us go down into that little space of meadow land.

SECTION III. The inlet which runs nearest to the base of the campanile is not that by which
Torcello is commonly approached. Another, somewhat broader, and overhung by alder copse, winds
out of the main channel of the lagoon up to the very edge of the little meadow which was once
the Piazza of the city, and there, stayed by a few grey stones which present some semblance
of a quay, forms its boundary at one extremity. Hardly larger than an ordinary English farmyard,
and roughly enclosed on each side by broken palings and hedges of honeysuckle and briar, the
narrow field retires from the water's edge, traversed by a scarcely traceable footpath, for
some forty or fifty paces, and then expanding into the form of a small square, with buildings
on three sides of it, the fourth being that which opens to the water. Two of these, that on
our left and that in front of us as we approach from the canal, are so small that they might
well be taken for the out-houses of the farm, though the first is a conventual building, and
the other aspires to the title of the "Palazzo publico," both dating as far back as the beginning
of the fourteenth century; the third, the octagonal church of Santa Fosca, is far more ancient
than either, yet hardly on a larger scale. Though the pillars of the portico which surrounds
it are of pure Greek marble, and their capitals are enriched with delicate sculpture, they,
and the arches they sustain, together only raise the roof to the height of a cattle-shed; and
the first strong impression which the spectator receives from the whole scene is, that whatever
sin it may have been which has on this spot been visited with so utter a desolation, it could
not at least have been ambition. Nor will this impression be diminished as we approach, or
enter, the larger church to which the whole group of building is subordinate. It has evidently
been built by men in flight and distress, [Footnote: Appendix IV, "Date of the Duomo of Torcello."]
who sought in the hurried erection of their Island church such a shelter for their earnest
and sorrowful worship as, on the one hand, could not attract the eyes of their enemies by its
splendor, and yet, on the other, might not awaken too bitter feelings by its contrast with
the churches which they had seen destroyed.

There is visible everywhere a simple and tender effort to recover some of the form of the temples
which they had loved, and to do honor to God by that which they were erecting, while distress
and humiliation prevented the desire, and prudence precluded the admission, either of luxury
of ornament or magnificence of plan. The exterior is absolutely devoid of decoration, with
the exception only of the western entrance and the lateral door, of which the former has carved
sideposts and architrave, and the latter, crosses of rich sculpture; while the massy stone
shutters of the windows, turning on huge rings of stone, which answer the double purpose of
stanchions and brackets, cause the whole building rather to resemble a refuge from Alpine storm
than the cathedral of a populous city; and, internally, the two solemn mosaics of the eastern
and western extremities,--one representing the Last Judgment, the other the Madonna, her tears
falling as her hands are raised to bless,--and the noble range of pillars which enclose the
space between, terminated by the high throne for the pastor and the semicircular raised seats
for the superior clergy, are expressive at once of the deep sorrow and the sacred courage of
men who had no home left them upon earth, but who looked for one to come, of men "persecuted
but not forsaken, cast down but not destroyed."

SECTION IV. For observe this choice of subjects. It is indeed possible that the walls of the
nave and aisles, which are now whitewashed, may have been covered with fresco or mosaic, and
thus have supplied a series of subjects, on the choice of which we cannot speculate. I do not,
however, find record of the destruction of any such works; and I am rather inclined to believe
that at any rate the central division of the building was originally, decorated, as it is now,
simply by mosaics representing Christ, the Virgin, and the apostles, at one extremity, and
Christ coming to judgment at the other. And if so, I repeat, observe the significance of this
choice. Most other early churches are covered with imagery sufficiently suggestive of the vivid
interest of the builders in the history and occupations of the world. Symbols or representations
of political events, portraits of living persons, and sculptures of satirical, grotesque, or
trivial subjects are of constant occurrence, mingled with the more strictly appointed representations
of scriptural or ecclesiastical history; but at Torcello even these usual, and one should have
thought almost necessary, successions of Bible events do not appear. The mind of the worshipper
was fixed entirely upon two great facts, to him the most precious of all facts,--the present
mercy of Christ to His Church, and His future coming to judge the world. That Christ's mercy
was, at this period, supposed chiefly to be attainable through the pleading of the Virgin,
and that therefore beneath the figure of the Redeemer is seen that of the weeping Madonna in
the act of intercession, may indeed be matter of sorrow to the Protestant beholder, but ought
not to blind him to the earnestness and singleness of the faith with which these men sought
their sea-solitudes; not in hope of founding new dynasties, or entering upon new epochs of
prosperity, but only to humble themselves before God, and to pray that in His infinite mercy
He would hasten the time when the sea should give up the dead which were in it, and Death and
Hell give up the dead which were in them, and when they might enter into the better kingdom,
"where the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest."

SECTION V. Nor were the strength and elasticity of their minds, even in the least matters,
diminished by thus looking forward to the close of all things. On the contrary, nothing is
more remarkable than the finish and beauty of all the portions of the building, which seem
to have been actually executed for the place they occupy in the present structure. The rudest
are those which they brought with them from the mainland; the best and most beautiful, those
which appear to have been carved for their island church: of these, the new capitals already
noticed, and the exquisite panel ornaments of the chancel screen, are the most conspicuous;
the latter form a low wall across the church between the six small shafts whose places are
seen in the plan, and serve to enclose a space raised two steps above the level of the nave,
destined for the singers, and indicated also in the plan by an open line a b c d. The bas-reliefs
on this low screen are groups of peacocks and lions, two face to face on each panel, rich and
fantastic beyond description, though not expressive of very accurate knowledge either of leonine
or pavonine forms. And it is not until we pass to the back of the stair of the pulpit, which
is connected with the northern extremity of this screen, that we find evidence of the haste
with which the church was constructed.

SECTION VI. The pulpit, however, is not among the least noticeable of its features. It is sustained
on the four small detached shafts marked at p in the plan, between the two pillars at the north
side of the screen; both pillars and pulpit studiously plain, while the staircase which ascends
to it is a compact mass of masonry (shaded in the plan), faced by carved slabs of marble; the
parapet of the staircase being also formed of solid blocks like paving-stones, lightened by
rich, but not deep, exterior carving. Now these blocks, or at least those which adorn the staircase
towards the aisle, have been brought from the mainland; and, being of size and shape not easily
to be adjusted to the proportions of the stair, the architect has cut out of them pieces of
the size he needed, utterly regardless of the subject or symmetry of the original design. The
pulpit is not the only place where this rough procedure has been permitted: at the lateral
door of the church are two crosses, cut out of slabs of marble, formerly covered with rich
sculpture over their whole surfaces, of which portions are left on the surface of the crosses;
the lines of the original design being, of course, just as arbitrarily cut by the incisions
between the arms, as the patterns upon a piece of silk which has been shaped anew. The fact
is, that in all early Romanesque work, large surfaces are covered with sculpture for the sake
of enrichment only; sculpture which indeed had always meaning, because it was easier for the
sculptor to work with some chain of thought to guide his chisel, than without any; but it was
not always intended, or at least not always hoped, that this chain of thought might be traced
by the spectator. All that was proposed appears to have been the enrichment of surface, so
as to make it delightful to the eye; and this being once understood, a decorated piece of marble
became to the architect just what a piece of lace or embroidery is to a dressmaker, who takes
of it such portions as she may require, with little regard to the places where the patterns
are divided. And though it may appear, at first sight, that the procedure is indicative of
bluntness and rudeness of feeling,--we may perceive, upon reflection, that it may also indicate
the redundance of power which sets little price upon its own exertion. When a barbarous nation
builds its fortress-walls out of fragments of the refined architecture it has overthrown, we
can read nothing but its savageness in the vestiges of art which may thus chance to have been
preserved; but when the new work is equal, if not superior, in execution, to the pieces of
the older art which are associated with it, we may justly conclude that the rough treatment
to which the latter have been subjected is rather a sign of the hope of doing better things,
than of want of feeling for those already accomplished. And, in general, this careless fitting
of ornament is, in very truth, an evidence of life in the school of builders, and of their
making a due distinction between work which is to be used for architectural effect, and work
which is to possess an abstract perfection; and it commonly shows also that the exertion of
design is so easy to them, and their fertility so inexhaustible, that they feel no remorse
in using somewhat injuriously what they can replace with so slight an effort.

SECTION VII. It appears however questionable in the present instance, whether, if the marbles
had not been carved to his hand, the architect would have taken the trouble to enrich them.
For the execution of the rest of the pulpit is studiously simple, and it is in this respect
that its design possesses, it seems to me, an interest to the religious spectator greater than
he will take in any other portion of the building. It is supported, as I said, on a group of
four slender shafts; itself of a slightly oval form, extending nearly from one pillar of the
nave to the next, so as to give the preacher free room for the action of the entire person,
which always gives an unaffected impressiveness to the eloquence of the southern nations. In
the centre of its curved front, a small bracket and detached shaft sustain the projection of
a narrow marble desk (occupying the place of a cushion in a modern pulpit), which is hollowed
out into a shallow curve on the upper surface, leaving a ledge at the bottom of the slab, so
that a book laid upon it, or rather into it, settles itself there, opening as if by instinct,
but without the least chance of slipping to the side, or in any way moving beneath the preacher's
hands. Six balls, or rather almonds, of purple marble veined with white are set round the edge
of the pulpit, and form its only decoration. Perfectly graceful, but severe and almost cold
in its simplicity, built for permanence and service, so that no single member, no stone of
it, could be spared, and yet all are firm and uninjured as when they were first set together,
it stands in venerable contrast both with the fantastic pulpits of mediaeval cathedrals and
with the rich furniture of those of our modern churches. It is worth while pausing for a moment
to consider how far the manner of decorating a pulpit may have influence on the efficiency
of its service, and whether our modern treatment of this, to us all-important, feature of a
church be the best possible. [Footnote: Appendix V., "Modern Pulpits."]

SECTION VIII. When the sermon is good we need not much concern ourselves about the form of
the pulpit. But sermons cannot always be good; and I believe that the temper in which the congregation
set themselves to listen may be in some degree modified by their perception of fitness or unfitness,
impressiveness or vulgarity, in the disposition of the place appointed for the speaker,--not
to the same degree, but somewhat in the same way, that they may be influenced by his own gestures
or expression, irrespective of the sense of what he says. I believe, therefore, in the first
place, that pulpits ought never to be highly decorated; the speaker is apt to look mean or
diminutive if the pulpit is either on a very large scale or covered with splendid ornament,
and if the interest of the sermon should flag the mind is instantly tempted to wander. I have
observed that in almost all cathedrals, when the pulpits are peculiarly magnificent, sermons
are not often preached from them; but rather, and especially if for any important purpose,
from some temporary erection in other parts of the building:--and though this may often be
done because the architect has consulted the effect upon the eye more than the convenience
of the ear in the placing of his larger pulpit, I think it also proceeds in some measure from
a natural dislike in the preacher to match himself with the magnificence of the rostrum, lest
the sermon should not be thought worthy of the place. Yet this will rather hold of the colossal
sculptures, and pyramids of fantastic tracery which encumber the pulpits of Flemish and German
churches, than of the delicate mosaics and ivory-like carving of the Romanesque basilicas,
for when the form is kept simple, much loveliness of color and costliness of work may be introduced,
and yet the speaker not be thrown into the shade by them.

SECTION IX. But, in the second place, whatever ornaments we admit ought clearly to be of a
chaste, grave, and noble kind; and what furniture we employ, evidently more for the honoring
of God's word than for the ease of the preacher. For there are two ways of regarding a sermon,
either as a human composition, or a Divine message. If we look upon it entirely as the first,
and require our clergymen to finish it with their utmost care and learning, for our better
delight whether of ear or intellect, we shall necessarily be led to expect much formality and
stateliness in its delivery, and to think that all is not well if the pulpit have not a golden
fringe round it, and a goodly cushion in front of it, and if the sermon be not fairly written
in a black book, to be smoothed upon the cushion in a majestic manner before beginning; all
this we shall duly come to expect: but we shall at the same time consider the treatise thus
prepared as something to which it is our duty to listen without restlessness for half an hour
or three quarters, but which, when that duty has been decorously performed, we may dismiss
from our minds in happy confidence of being provided with another when next it shall be necessary.
But if once we begin to regard the preacher, whatever his faults, as a man sent with a message
to us, which it is a matter of life or death whether we hear or refuse; if we look upon him
as set in charge over many spirits in danger of ruin, and having allowed to him but an hour
or two in the seven days to speak to them; if we make some endeavor to conceive how precious
these hours ought to be to him, a small vantage on the side of God after his flock have been
exposed for six days together to the full weight of the world's temptation, and he has been
forced to watch the thorn and the thistle springing in their hearts, and to see what wheat
had been scattered there snatched from the wayside by this wild bird and the other, and at
last, when breathless and weary with the week's labor they give him this interval of imperfect
and languid hearing, he has but thirty minutes to get at the separate hearts of a thousand
men, to convince them of all their weaknesses, to shame them for all their sins, to warn them
of all their dangers, to try by this way and that to stir the hard fastenings of those doors
where the Master himself has stood and knocked yet none opened, and to call at the openings
of those dark streets where Wisdom herself hath stretched forth her hands and no man regarded,--thirty
minutes to raise the dead in,--let us but once understand and feel this, and we shall look
with changed eyes upon that frippery of gay furniture about the place from which the message
of judgment must be delivered, which either breathes upon the dry bones that they may live,
or, if ineffectual, remains recorded in condemnation, perhaps against the utterer and listener
alike, but assuredly against one of them. We shall not so easily bear with the silk and gold
upon the seat of judgment, nor with ornament of oratory in the mouth of the messenger: we shall
wish that his words may be simple, even when they are sweetest, and the place from which he
speaks like a marble rock in the desert, about which the people have gathered in their thirst.

SECTION X. But the severity which is so marked in the pulpit at Torcello is still more striking
in the raised seats and episcopal throne which occupy the curve of the apse. The arrangement
at first somewhat recalls to the mind that of the Roman amphitheatres; the flight of steps
which lead up to the central throne divides the curve of the continuous steps or seats (it
appears in the first three ranges questionable which were intended, for they seem too high
for the one, and too low and close for the other), exactly as in an amphitheatre the stairs
for access intersect the sweeping ranges of seats. But in the very rudeness of this arrangement,
and especially in the want of all appliances of comfort (for the whole is of marble, and the
arms of the central throne are not for convenience, but for distinction, and to separate it
more conspicuously from the undivided seats), there is a dignity which no furniture of stalls
nor carving of canopies ever could attain, and well worth the contemplation of the Protestant,
both as sternly significative of an episcopal authority which in the early days of the Church
was never disputed, and as dependent for all its impressiveness on the utter absence of any
expression either of pride or self-indulgence.

SECTION XI. But there is one more circumstance which we ought to remember as giving peculiar
significance to the position which the episcopal throne occupies in this island church, namely,
that in the minds of all early Christians the Church itself was most frequently symbolized
under the image of a ship, of which the bishop was the pilot. Consider the force which this
symbol would assume in the imaginations of men to whom the spiritual Church had become an ark
of refuge in the midst of a destruction hardly less terrible than that from which the eight
souls were saved of old, a destruction in which the wrath of man had become as broad as the
earth and as merciless as the sea, and who saw the actual and literal edifice of the Church
raked up, itself like an ark in the midst of the waters. No marvel if with the surf of the
Adriatic rolling between them and the shores of their birth, from which they were separated
for ever, they should have looked upon each other as the disciples did when the storm came
down on the Tiberias Lake, and have yielded ready and loving obedience to those who ruled them
in His name, who had there rebuked the winds and commanded stillness to the sea. And if the
stranger would yet learn in what spirit it was that the dominion of Venice was begun, and in
what strength she went forth conquering and to conquer, let him not seek to estimate the wealth
of her arsenals or number of her armies, nor look upon the pageantry of her palaces, nor enter
into the secrets of her councils; but let him ascend the highest tier of the stern ledges that
sweep round the altar of Torcello, and then, looking as the pilot did of old along the marble
ribs of the goodly temple-ship, let him repeople its veined deck with the shadows of its dead
mariners, and strive to feel in himself the strength of heart that was kindled within them,
when first, after the pillars of it had settled in the sand, and the roof of it had been closed
against the angry sky that was still reddened by the fires of their homesteads,--first, within
the shelter of its knitted walls, amidst the murmur of the waste of waves and the beating of
the wings of the sea-birds round the rock that was strange to them,--rose that ancient hymn,
in the power of their gathered voices:

  THE SEA IS HIS, AND HE MADE IT,
  AND HIS HANDS PREPARED THE DRY LAND.

CHAPTER IV.

ST. MARK'S.

SECTION I. "And so Barnabas took Mark, and sailed unto Cyprus." If as the shores of Asia lessened
upon his sight, the spirit of prophecy had entered into the heart of the weak disciple who
had turned back when his hand was on the plough, and who had been judged, by the chiefest of
Christ's captains, unworthy thenceforward to go forth with him to the work, [Footnote: Acts,
xiii. 13; xv. 38, 39.] how wonderful would he have thought it, that by the lion symbol in future
ages he was to be represented among men! how woful, that the war-cry of his name should so
often reanimate the rage of the soldier, on those very plains where he himself had failed in
the courage of the Christian, and so often dye with fruitless blood that very Cypriot Sea,
over whose waves, in repentance and shame, he was following the Son of Consolation!

SECTION II. That the Venetians possessed themselves of his body in the ninth century, there
appears no sufficient reason to doubt, nor that it was principally in consequence of their
having done so, that they chose him for their patron saint. There exists, however, a tradition
that before he went into Egypt he had founded the Church at Aquileia, and was thus, in some
sort, the first bishop of the Venetian isles and people. I believe that this tradition stands
on nearly as good grounds as that of St. Peter having been the first bishop of Rome; [Footnote:
The reader who desires to investigate it may consult Galliciolli, "Delle Memorie Venete" (Venice,
1795), tom. ii. p. 332, and the authorities quoted by him.] but, as usual, it is enriched by
various later additions and embellishments, much resembling the stories told respecting the
church of Murano. Thus we find it recorded by the Santo Padre who compiled the "Vite de' Santi
spettanti alle Chiese di Venezia," [Footnote: Venice, 1761, tom. i. p. 126.] that "St. Mark
having seen the people of Aquileia well grounded in religion, and being called to Rome by St.
Peter, before setting off took with him the holy bishop Hermagoras, and went in a small boat
to the marshes of Venice. There were at that period some houses built upon a certain high bank
called Rialto, and the boat being driven by the wind was anchored in a marshy place, when St.
Mark, snatched into ecstasy, heard the voice of an angel saying to him: 'Peace be to thee,
Mark; here shall thy body rest.'" The angel goes on to foretell the building of "una stupenda,
ne piu veduta Citta;" but the fable is hardly ingenious enough to deserve farther relation.

SECTION III. But whether St. Mark was first bishop of Aquileia or not, St. Theodore was the
first patron of the city; nor can he yet be considered as having entirely abdicated his early
right, as his statue, standing on a crocodile, still companions the winged lion on the opposing
pillar of the piazzetta. A church erected to this Saint is said to have occupied, before the
ninth century, the site of St. Mark's; and the traveller, dazzled by the brilliancy of the
great square, ought not to leave it without endeavoring to imagine its aspect in that early
time, when it was a green field cloister-like and quiet, [Footnote: St. Mark's Place, "partly
covered by turf, and planted with a few trees; and on account of its pleasant aspect called
Brollo or Broglio, that is to say, Garden." The canal passed through it, over which is built
the bridge of the Malpassi. Galliciolli, lib. I, cap. viii.] divided by a small canal, with
a line of trees on each side; and extending between the two churches of St. Theodore and St.
Geminian, as the little piazza, of Torcello lies between its "palazzo" and cathedral.

SECTION IV. But in the year 813, when the seat of government was finally removed to the Rialto,
a Ducal Palace, built on the spot where the present one stands, with a Ducal Chapel beside
it, [Footnote: My authorities for this statement are given below, in the chapter on the Ducal
Palace.] gave a very different character to the Square of St. Mark; and fifteen years later,
the acquisition of the body of the Saint, and its deposition in the Ducal Chapel, perhaps not
yet completed, occasioned the investiture of that chapel with all possible splendor. St. Theodore
was deposed from his patronship, and his church destroyed, to make room for the aggrandizement
of the one attached to the Ducal Palace, and thenceforward known as "St. Mark's." [Footnote:
In the Chronicles, "Sancti Marci Ducalis Cappella."]

SECTION V. This first church was however destroyed by fire, when the Ducal Palace was burned
in the revolt against Candiano, in 976. It was partly rebuilt by his successor, Pietro Orseolo,
on a larger scale; and with the assistance of Byzantine architects, the fabric was carried
on under successive Doges for nearly a hundred years; the main building being completed in
1071, but its incrustation with marble not till considerably later. It was consecrated on the
8th of October, 1085, [Footnote: "To God the Lord, the glorious Virgin Annunciate, and the
Protector St. Mark."--Corner, p. 14. It is needless to trouble the reader with the various
authorities for the above statements: I have consulted the best. The previous inscription once
existing on the church itself:

  "Anno milleno transacto bisque trigeno
  Desuper undecimo fuit facta primo,"

is no longer to be seen, and is conjectured by Corner, with much probability, to have perished
"in qualche ristauro."] according to Sansovino and the author of the "Chiesa Ducale di S. Marco,"
in 1094 according to Lazari, but certainly between 1084 and 1096, those years being the limits
of the reign of Vital Falier; I incline to the supposition that it was soon after his accession
to the throne in 1085, though Sansovino writes, by mistake, Ordelafo instead of Vital Falier.
But, at all events, before the close of the eleventh century the great consecration of the
church took place. It was again injured by fire in 1106, but repaired; and from that time to
the fall of Venice there was probably no Doge who did not in some slight degree embellish or
alter the fabric, so that few parts of it can be pronounced boldly to be of any given date.
Two periods of interference are, however, notable above the rest: the first, that in which
the Gothic school had superseded the Byzantine towards the close of the fourteenth century,
when the pinnacles, upper archivolts, and window traceries were added to the exterior, and
the great screen, with various chapels and tabernacle-work, to the interior; the second, when
the Renaissance school superseded the Gothic, and the pupils of Titian and Tintoret substituted,
over one half of the church, their own compositions for the Greek mosaics with which it was
originally decorated; [Footnote: Signed Bartolomeus Bozza, 1634, 1647, 1656, etc.] happily,
though with no good will, having left enough to enable us to imagine and lament what they destroyed.
Of this irreparable loss we shall have more to say hereafter; meantime, I wish only to fix
in the reader's mind the succession of periods of alteration as firmly and simply as possible.

SECTION VI. We have seen that the main body of the church may be broadly stated to be of the
eleventh century, the Gothic additions of the fourteenth, and the restored mosaics of the seventeenth.
There is no difficulty in distinguishing at a glance the Gothic portions from the Byzantine;
but there is considerable difficulty in ascertaining how long, during the course of the twelfth
and thirteenth centuries, additions were made to the Byzantine church, which cannot be easily
distinguished from the work of the eleventh century, being purposely executed in the same manner.
Two of the most important pieces of evidence on this point are, a mosaic in the south transept,
and another over the northern door of the facade; the first representing the interior, the
second the exterior, of the ancient church.

SECTION VII. It has just been stated that the existing building was consecrated by the Doge
Vital Falier. A peculiar solemnity was given to that of consecration, in the minds of the Venetian
people, by what appears to have been one of the best arranged and most successful impostures
ever attempted by the clergy of the Romish church. The body of St. Mark had, without doubt,
perished in the conflagration of 976; but the revenues of the church depended too much upon
the devotion excited by these relics to permit the confession of their loss. The following
is the account given by Corner, and believed to this day by the Venetians, of the pretended
miracle by which it was concealed.

"After the repairs undertaken by the Doge Orseolo, the place in which the body of the holy
Evangelist rested had been altogether forgotten, so that the Doge Vital Falier was entirely
ignorant of the place of the venerable deposit. This was no light affliction, not only to the
pious Doge, but to all the citizens and people; so that at last, moved by confidence in the
Divine mercy, they determined to implore, with prayer and fasting, the manifestation of so
great a treasure, which did not now depend upon any human effort. A general fast being therefore
proclaimed, and a solemn procession appointed for the 25th day of June, while the people assembled
in the church interceded with God in fervent prayers for the desired boon, they beheld, with
as much amazement as joy, a slight shaking in the marbles of a pillar (near the place where
the altar of the Cross is now), which, presently falling to the earth, exposed to the view
of the rejoicing people the chest of bronze in which the body of the Evangelist was laid."

SECTION VIII. Of the main facts of this tale there is no doubt. They were embellished afterwards,
as usual, by many fanciful traditions; as, for instance, that, when the sarcophagus was discovered,
St. Mark extended his hand out of it, with a gold ring on one of the fingers, which he permitted
a noble of the Dolfin family to remove; and a quaint and delightful story was further invented
of this ring, which I shall not repeat here, as it is now as well known as any tale of the
Arabian Nights. But the fast and the discovery of the coffin, by whatever means effected, are
facts; and they are recorded in one of the best-preserved mosaics of the north transept, executed
very certainly not long after the event had taken place, closely resembling in its treatment
that of the Bayeux tapestry, and showing, in a conventional manner, the interior of the church,
as it then was, filled by the people, first in prayer, then in thanksgiving, the pillar standing
open before them, and the Doge, in the midst of them, distinguished by his crimson bonnet embroidered
with gold, but more unmistakably by the inscription "Dux" over his head, as uniformly is the
case in the Bayeux tapestry, and most other pictorial works of the period. The church is, of
course, rudely represented, and the two upper stories of it reduced to a small scale in order
to form a background to the figures; one of those bold pieces of picture history which we in
our pride of perspective, and a thousand things besides, never dare attempt. We should have
put in a column or two of the real or perspective size, and subdued it into a vague background:
the old workman crushed the church together that he might get it all in, up to the cupolas;
and has, therefore, left us some useful notes of its ancient form, though any one who is familiar
with the method of drawing employed at the period will not push the evidence too far. The two
pulpits are there, however, as they are at this day, and the fringe of mosaic flowerwork which
then encompassed the whole church, but which modern restorers have destroyed, all but one fragment
still left in the south aisle. There is no attempt to represent the other mosaics on the roof,
the scale being too small to admit of their being represented with any success; but some at
least of those mosaics had been executed at that period, and their absence in the representation
of the entire church is especially to be observed, in order to show that we must not trust
to any negative evidence in such works. M. Lazari has rashly concluded that the central archivolt
of St. Mark's must be posterior to the year 1205, because it does not appear in the representation
of the exterior of the church over the northern door; [Footnote: Guida di Venezia, p. 6. (He
is right, however.)] but he justly observes that this mosaic (which is the other piece of evidence
we possess respecting the ancient form of the building) cannot itself be earlier than 1205,
since it represents the bronze horses which were brought from Constantinople in that year.
And this one fact renders it very difficult to speak with confidence respecting the date of
any part of the exterior of St. Mark's; for we have above seen that it was consecrated in the
eleventh century, and yet here is one of the most important exterior decorations assuredly
retouched, if not entirely added, in the thirteenth, although its style would have led us to
suppose it had been an original part of the fabric. However, for all our purposes, it will
be enough for the reader to remember that the earliest parts of the building belong to the
eleventh, twelfth, and first part of the thirteenth century; the Gothic portions to the fourteenth;
some of the altars and embellishments to the fifteenth and sixteenth; and the modern portion
of the mosaics to the seventeenth.

SECTION IX. This, however, I only wish him to recollect in order that I may speak generally
of the Byzantine architecture of St. Mark's, without leading him to suppose the whole church
to have been built and decorated by Greek artists. Its later portions, with the single exception
of the seventeenth century mosaics, have been so dexterously accommodated to the original fabric
that the general effect is still that of a Byzantine building; and I shall not, except when
it is absolutely necessary, direct attention to the discordant points, or weary the reader
with anatomical criticism. Whatever in St. Mark's arrests the eye, or affects the feelings,
is either Byzantine, or has been modified by Byzantine influence; and our inquiry into its
architectural merits need not therefore be disturbed by the anxieties of antiquarianism, or
arrested by the obscurities of chronology.

SECTION X. And now I wish that the reader, before I bring him into St. Mark's Place, would
imagine himself for a little time in a quiet English cathedral town, and walk with me to the
west front of its cathedral. Let us go together up the more retired street, at the end of which
we can see the pinnacles of one of the towers, and then through the low gray gateway, with
its battlemented top and small latticed window in the centre, into the inner private-looking
road or close, where nothing goes in but the carts of the tradesmen who supply the bishop and
the chapter, and where there are little shaven grass-plots, fenced in by neat rails, before
old-fashioned groups of somewhat diminutive and excessively trim houses, with little oriel
and bay windows jutting out here and there, and deep wooden cornices and eaves painted cream
color and white, and small porches to their doors in the shape of cockle-shells, or little,
crooked, thick, indescribable wooden gables warped a little on one side; and so forward till
we come to larger houses, also old-fashioned, but of red brick, and with gardens behind them,
and fruit walls, which show here and there, among the nectarines, the vestiges of an old cloister
arch or shaft, and looking in front on the cathedral square itself, laid out in rigid divisions
of smooth grass and gravel walk, yet not uncheerful, especially on the sunny side where the
canons' children are walking with their nurserymaids. And so, taking care not to tread on the
grass, we will go along the straight walk to the west front, and there stand for a time, looking
up at its deep-pointed porches and the dark places between their pillars where there were statues
once, and where the fragments, here and there, of a stately figure are still left, which has
in it the likeness of a king, perhaps indeed a king on earth, perhaps a saintly king long ago
in heaven; and so higher and higher up to the great mouldering wall of rugged sculpture and
confused arcades, shattered, and gray, and grisly with heads of dragons and mocking fiends,
worn by the rain and swirling winds into yet unseemlier shape, and colored on their stony scales
by the deep russet-orange lichen, melancholy gold; and so, higher still, to the bleak towers,
so far above that the eye loses itself among the bosses of their traceries, though they are
rude and strong, and only sees like a drift of eddying black points, now closing, now scattering,
and now settling suddenly into invisible places among the bosses and flowers, the crowd of
restless birds that fill the whole square with that strange clangor of theirs, so harsh and
yet so soothing, like the cries of birds on a solitary coast between the cliffs and sea.

SECTION XI. Think for a little while of that scene, and the meaning of all its small formalisms,
mixed with its serene sublimity. Estimate its secluded, continuous, drowsy felicities, and
its evidence of the sense and steady performance of such kind of duties as can be regulated
by the cathedral clock; and weigh the influence of those dark towers on all who have passed
through the lonely square at their feet for centuries, and on all who have seen them rising
far away over the wooded plain, or catching on their square masses the last rays of the sunset,
when the city at their feet was indicated only by the mist at the bend of the river. And then
let us quickly recollect that we are in Venice, and land at the extremity of the Calle Lunga
San Moise, which may be considered as there answering to the secluded street that led us to
our English cathedral gateway.

SECTION XII. We find ourselves in a paved alley, some seven feet wide where it is widest, full
of people, and resonant with cries of itinerant salesmen,--a shriek in their beginning, and
dying away into a kind of brazen ringing, all the worse for its confinement between the high
houses of the passage along which we have to make our way. Over head an inextricable confusion
of rugged shutters, and iron balconies and chimney flues pushed out on brackets to save room,
and arched windows with projecting sills of Istrian stone, and gleams of green leaves here
and there where a fig-tree branch escapes over a lower wall from some inner cortile, leading
the eye up to the narrow stream of blue sky high over all. On each side, a row of shops, as
densely set as may be, occupying, in fact, intervals between the square stone shafts, about
eight feet high, which carry the first floors: intervals of which one is narrow and serves
as a door; the other is, in the more respectable shops, wainscoted to the height of the counter
and glazed above, but in those of the poorer tradesmen left open to the ground, and the wares
laid on benches and tables in the open air, the light in all cases entering at the front only,--and
fading away in a few feet from the threshold into a gloom which the eye from without cannot
penetrate, but which is generally broken by a ray or two from a feeble lamp at the back of
the shop, suspended before a print of the Virgin. The less pious shop-keeper sometimes leaves
his lamp unlighted, and is contented with a penny print; the more religious one has his print
colored and set in a little shrine with a gilded or figured fringe, with perhaps a faded flower
or two on each side, and his lamp burning brilliantly. Here at the fruiterer's, where the dark-green
watermelons are heaped upon the counter like cannon balls, the Madonna has a tabernacle of
fresh laurel leaves; but the pewterer next door has let his lamp out, and there is nothing
to be seen in his shop but the dull gleam of the studded patterns on the copper pans, hanging
from his roof in the darkness. Next comes a "Vendita Frittole e Liquori," where the Virgin,
enthroned in a very humble manner beside a tallow candle on a back shelf, presides over certain
ambrosial morsels of a nature too ambiguous to be denned or enumerated. But a few steps farther
on, at the regular wineshop of the calle, where we are offered "Vino Nostrani a Soldi 28'32,"
the Madonna is in great glory, enthroned above ten or a dozen large red casks of three-year-old
vintage, and flanked by goodly ranks of bottles of Maraschino, and two crimson lamps; and for
the evening, when the gondoliers will come to drink out, under her auspices, the money they
have gained during the day, she will have a whole chandelier.

SECTION XIII. A yard or two farther, we pass the hostelry of the Black Eagle, and, glancing
as we pass through the square door of marble, deeply moulded, in the outer wall, we see the
shadows of its pergola of vines resting on an ancient well, with a pointed shield carved on
its side; and so presently emerge on the bridge and Campo San Moise, whence to the entrance
into St. Mark's Place, called the Bocca di Piazza, (mouth of the square), the Venetian character
is nearly destroyed, first by the frightful facade of San Moise, which we will pause at another
time to examine, and then by the modernizing of the shops as they near the piazza, and the
mingling with the lower Venetian populace of lounging groups of English and Austrians. We will
push fast through them into the shadow of the pillars at the end of the "Bocca di Piazza,"
and then we forget them all; for between those pillars there opens a great light, and, in the
midst of it, as we advance slowly, the vast tower of St. Mark seems to lift itself visibly
forth from the level field of chequered stones; and, on each side, the countless arches prolong
themselves into ranged symmetry, as if the rugged and irregular houses that pressed together
above us in the dark alley had been struck back into sudden obedience and lovely order, and
all their rude casements and broken walls had been transformed into arches charged with goodly
sculpture, and fluted shafts of delicate stone.

SECTION XIV. And well may they fall back, for beyond those troops of ordered arches there rises
a vision out of the earth, and all the great square seems to have opened from it in a kind
of awe, that we may see it far away;--a multitude of pillars and white domes, clustered into
a long low pyramid of colored light; a treasure-heap, it seems, partly of gold, and partly
of opal and mother-of-pearl, hollowed beneath into five great vaulted porches, ceiled with
fair mosaic, and beset with sculpture of alabaster, clear as amber and delicate as ivory,--sculpture
fantastic and involved, of palm leaves and lilies, and grapes and pomegranates, and birds clinging
and fluttering among the branches, all twined together into an endless network of buds and
plumes; and, in the midst of it, the solemn forms of angels, sceptred, and robed to the feet,
and leaning to each other across the gates, their figures indistinct among the gleaming of
the golden ground through the leaves beside them, interrupted and dim, like the morning light
as it faded back among the branches of Eden, when first its gates were angel-guarded long ago.
And round the walls of the porches there are set pillars of variegated stones, jasper and porphyry,
and deep-green serpentine spotted with flakes of snow, and marbles, that half refuse and half
yield to the sunshine, Cleopatra-like, "their bluest veins to kiss"--the shadow, as it steals
back from them, revealing line after line of azure undulation, as a receding tide leaves the
waved sand; their capitals rich with interwoven tracery, rooted knots of herbage, and drifting
leaves of acanthus and vine, and mystical signs, all beginning and ending in the Cross; and
above them, in the broad archivolts, a continuous chain of language and of life--angels, and
the signs of heaven, and the labors of men, each in its appointed season upon the earth; and
above these, another range of glittering pinnacles, mixed with white arches edged with scarlet
flowers,--a confusion of delight, amidst which the breasts of the Greek horses are seen blazing
in their breadth of golden strength, and the St. Mark's Lion, lifted on a blue field covered
with stars, until at last, as if in ecstasy, the crests of the arches break into a marble foam,
and toss themselves far into the blue sky in flashes and wreaths of sculptured spray, as if
the breakers on the Lido shore had been frost-bound before they fell, and the sea-nymphs had
inlaid them with coral and amethyst.

Between that grim cathedral of England and this, what an interval! There is a type of it in
the very birds that haunt them; for, instead of the restless crowd, hoarse-voiced and sable-winged,
drifting on the bleak upper air, the St. Mark's porches are full of doves, that nestle among
the marble foliage, and mingle the soft iridescence of their living plumes, changing at every
motion, with the tints, hardly less lovely, that have stood unchanged for seven hundred years.

SECTION XV. And what effect has this splendor on those who pass beneath it? You may walk from
sunrise to sunset, to and fro, before the gateway of St. Mark's, and you will not see an eye
lifted to it, nor a countenance brightened by it. Priest and layman, soldier and civilian,
rich and poor, pass by it alike regardlessly. Up to the very recesses of the porches, the meanest
tradesmen of the city push their counters; nay, the foundations of its pillars are themselves
the seats--not "of them that sell doves" for sacrifice, but of the vendors of toys and caricatures.
Round the whole square in front of the church there is almost a continuous line of cafes, where
the idle Venetians of the middle classes lounge, and read empty journals; in its centre the
Austrian bands play during the time of vespers, their martial music jarring with the organ
notes,--the march drowning the miserere, and the sullen crowd thickening round them,--a crowd,
which, if it had its will, would stiletto every soldier that pipes to it. And in the recesses
of the porches, all day long, knots of men of the lowest classes, unemployed and listless,
lie basking in the sun like lizards; and unregarded children,--every heavy glance of their
young eyes full of desperation and stony depravity, and their throats hoarse with cursing,--gamble,
and fight, and snarl, and sleep, hour after hour, clashing their bruised centesimi upon the
marble ledges of the church porch. And the images of Christ and His angels look down upon it
continually.

That we may not enter the church out of the midst of the horror of this, let us turn aside
under the portico which looks towards the sea, and passing round within the two massive pillars
brought from St. Jean d'Acre, we shall find the gate of the Baptistery; let us enter there.
The heavy door closes behind us instantly, and the light, and the turbulence of the Piazzetta,
are together shut out by it.

SECTION XVI. We are in a low vaulted room; vaulted, not with arches, but with small cupolas
starred with gold, and chequered with gloomy figures: in the centre is a bronze font charged
with rich bas-reliefs, a small figure of the Baptist standing above it in a single ray of light
that glances across the narrow room, dying as it falls from a window high in the wall, and
the first thing that it strikes, and the only thing that it strikes brightly, is a tomb. We
hardly know if it be a tomb indeed; for it is like a narrow couch set beside the window, low-roofed
and curtained, so that it might seem, but that it has some height above the pavement, to have
been drawn towards the window, that the sleeper might be wakened early;--only there are two
angels who have drawn the curtain back, and are looking down upon him. Let us look also and
thank that gentle light that rests upon his forehead for ever, and dies away upon his breast.

The face is of a man in middle life, but there are two deep furrows right across the forehead,
dividing it like the foundations of a tower: the height of it above is bound by the fillet
of the ducal cap. The rest of the features are singularly small and delicate, the lips sharp,
perhaps the sharpness of death being added to that of the natural lines; but there is a sweet
smile upon them, and a deep serenity upon the whole countenance. The roof of the canopy above
has been blue, filled with stars; beneath, in the centre of the tomb on which the figure rests,
is a seated figure of the Virgin, and the border of it all around is of flowers and soft leaves,
growing rich and deep, as if in a field in summer.

It is the Doge Andrea Dandolo, a man early great among the great of Venice; and early lost.
She chose him for her king in his 36th year; he died ten years later, leaving behind him that
history to which we owe half of what we know of her former fortunes.

SECTION XVII. Look round at the room in which he lies. The floor of it is of rich mosaic, encompassed
by a low seat of red marble, and its walls are of alabaster, but worn and shattered, and darkly
stained with age, almost a ruin,--in places the slabs of marble have fallen away altogether,
and the rugged brickwork is seen through the rents, but all beautiful; the ravaging fissures
fretting their way among the islands and channelled zones of the alabaster, and the time-stains
on its translucent masses darkened into fields of rich golden brown, like the color of seaweed
when the sun strikes on it through deep sea. The light fades away into the recess of the chamber
towards the altar, and the eye can hardly trace the lines of the bas-relief behind it of the
baptism of Christ: but on the vaulting of the roof the figures are distinct, and there are
seen upon it two great circles, one surrounded by the "Principalities and powers in heavenly
places," of which Milton has expressed the ancient division in the single massy line,

  "Thrones, Dominations, Princedoms, Virtues, Powers,"

and around the other, the Apostles; Christ the centre of both; and upon the walls, again and
again repeated, the gaunt figure of the Baptist, in every circumstance of his life and death;
and the streams of the Jordan running down between their cloven rocks; the axe laid to the
root of a fruitless tree that springs upon their shore. "Every tree that bringeth not forth
good fruit shall be hewn down, and cast into the fire." Yes, verily: to be baptized with fire,
or to be cast therein; it is the choice set before all men. The march-notes still murmur through
the grated window, and mingle with the sounding in our ears of the sentence of judgment, which
the old Greek has written on that Baptistery wall. Venice has made her choice.

SECTION XVIII. He who lies under that stony canopy would have taught her another choice, in
his day, if she would have listened to him; but he and his counsels have long been forgotten
by her, the dust lies upon his lips.

Through the heavy door whose bronze network closes the place of his rest, let us enter the
church itself. It is lost in still deeper twilight, to which the eye must be accustomed for
some moments before the form of the building can be traced; and then there opens before us
a vast cave, hewn out into the form of a Cross, and divided into shadowy aisles by many pillars.
Round the domes of its roof the light enters only through narrow apertures like large stars;
and here and there a ray or two from some far away casement wanders into the darkness, and
casts a narrow phosphoric stream upon the waves of marble that heave and fall in a thousand
colors along the floor. What else there is of light is from torches, or silver lamps, burning
ceaselessly in the recesses of the chapels; the roof sheeted with gold, and the polished walls
covered with alabaster, give back at every curve and angle some feeble gleaming to the flames;
and the glories round the heads of the sculptured saints flash out upon us as we pass them,
and sink again into the gloom. Under foot and over head, a continual succession of crowded
imagery, one picture passing into another, as in a dream; forms beautiful and terrible mixed
together; dragons and serpents, and ravening beasts of prey, and graceful birds that in the
midst of them drink from running fountains and feed from vases of crystal; the passions and
the pleasures of human life symbolized together, and the mystery of its redemption; for the
mazes of interwoven lines and changeful pictures lead always at last to the Cross, lifted and
carved in every place and upon every stonel sometimes with the serpent of eternity wrapt round
it, sometimes with doves beneath its arms, and sweet herbage growing forth from its feet; but
conspicuous most of all on the great rood that crosses the church before the altar, raised
in bright blazonry against the shadow of the apse. And although in the recesses of the aisles
and chapels, when the mist of the incense hangs heavily, we may see continually a figure traced
in faint lines upon their marble, a woman standing with her eyes raised to heaven, and the
inscription above her, "Mother of God," she is not here the presiding deity. It is the Cross
that is first seen, and always, burning in the centre of the temple; and every dome and hollow
of its roof has the figure of Christ in the utmost height of it, raised in power, or returning
in judgment.

SECTION XIX. Nor is this interior without effect on the minds of the people. At every hour
of the day there are groups collected before the various shrines, and solitary worshippers
scattered through the dark places of the church, evidently in prayer both deep and reverent,
and, for the most part, profoundly sorrowful. The devotees at the greater number of the renowned
shrines of Romanism may be seen murmuring their appointed prayers with wandering eyes and unengaged
gestures; but the step of the stranger does not disturb those who kneel on the pavement of
St. Mark's; and hardly a moment passes, from early morning to sunset, in which we may not see
some half-veiled figure enter beneath the Arabian porch, cast itself into long abasement on
the floor of the temple, and then rising slowly with more confirmed step, and with a passionate
kiss and clasp of the arms given to the feet of the crucifix, by which the lamps burn always
in the northern aisle, leave the church, as if comforted.

SECTION XX. But we must not hastily conclude from this that the nobler characters of the building
have at present any influence in fostering a devotional spirit. There is distress enough in
Venice to bring many to their knees, without excitement from external imagery; and whatever
there may be in the temper of the worship offered in St. Mark's more than can be accounted
for by reference to the unhappy circumstances of the city, is assuredly not owing either to
the beauty of its architecture or to the impressiveness of the Scripture histories embodied
in its mosaics. That it has a peculiar effect, however slight, on the popular mind, may perhaps
be safely conjectured from the number of worshippers which it attracts, while the churches
of St. Paul and the Frari, larger in size and more central in position, are left comparatively
empty. [Footnote: The mere warmth of St. Mark's in winter, which is much greater than that
of the other two churches above named, must, however, be taken into consideration, as one of
the most efficient causes of its being then more frequented.] But this effect is altogether
to be ascribed to its richer assemblage of those sources of influence which address themselves
to the commonest instincts of the human mind, and which, in all ages and countries, have been
more or less employed in the support of superstition. Darkness and mystery; confused recesses
of building; artificial light employed in small quantity, but maintained with a constancy which
seems to give it a kind of sacredness; preciousness of material easily comprehended by the
vulgar eye; close air loaded with a sweet and peculiar odor associated only with religious
services, solemn music, and tangible idols or images having popular legends attached to them,--these,
the stage properties of superstition, which have been from the beginning of the world, and
must be to the end of it, employed by all nations, whether openly savage or nominally civilized,
to produce a false awe in minds incapable of apprehending the true nature of the Deity, are
assembled in St. Mark's to a degree, as far as I know, unexampled in any other European church.
The arts of the Magus and the Brahmin are exhausted in the animation of a paralyzed Christianity;
and the popular sentiment which these arts excite is to be regarded by us with no more respect
than we should have considered ourselves justified in rendering to the devotion of the worshippers
at Eleusis, Ellora, or Edfou. [Footnote: I said above that the larger number of the devotees
entered by the "Arabian" porch; the porch, that is to say, on the north side of the church,
remarkable for its rich Arabian archivolt, and through which access is gained immediately to
the northern transept. The reason is, that in that transept is the chapel of the Madonna, which
has a greater attraction for the Venetians than all the rest of the church besides. The old
builders kept their images of the Virgin subordinate to those of Christ; but modern Romanism
has retrograded from theirs, and the most glittering portions of the whole church are the two
recesses behind this lateral altar, covered with silver hearts dedicated to the Virgin.]

SECTION XXI. Indeed, these inferior means of exciting religious emotion were employed in the
ancient Church as they are at this day, but not employed alone. Torchlight there was, as there
is now; but the torchlight illumined Scripture histories on the walls, which every eye traced
and every heart comprehended, but which, during my whole residence in Venice, I never saw one
Venetian regard for an instant. I never heard from any one the most languid expression of interest
in any feature of the church, or perceived the slightest evidence of their understanding the
meaning of its architecture; and while, therefore, the English cathedral, though no longer
dedicated to the kind of services for which it was intended by its builders, and much at variance
in many of its characters with the temper of the people by whom it is now surrounded, retains
yet so much of its religious influence that no prominent feature of its architecture can be
said to exist altogether in vain, we have in St. Mark's a building apparently still employed
in the ceremonies for which it was designed, and yet of which the impressive attributes have
altogether ceased to be comprehended by its votaries. The beauty which it possesses is unfelt,
the language it uses is forgotten; and in the midst of the city to whose service it has so
long been consecrated, and still filled by crowds of the descendants of those to whom it owes
its magnificence; it stands, in reality, more desolate than the ruins through which the sheep-walk
passes unbroken in our English valleys; and the writing on its marble walls is less regarded
and less powerful for the teaching of men, than the letters which the shepherd follows with
his finger, where the moss is lightest on the tombs in the desecrated cloister.

SECTION XXII. It must therefore be altogether without reference to its present usefulness,
that we pursue our inquiry into the merits and meaning of the architecture of this marvellous
building; and it can only be after we have terminated that inquiry, conducting it carefully
on abstract grounds, that we can pronounce with any certainty how far the present neglect of
St. Mark's is significative of the decline of the Venetian character, or how far this church
is to be considered as the relic of a barbarous age, incapable of attracting the admiration,
or influencing the feelings of a civilized community.

The inquiry before us is twofold. Throughout the first volume, I carefully kept the study of
expression distinct from that of abstract architectural perfection; telling the reader that
in every building we should afterwards examine, he would have first to form a judgment of its
construction and decorative merit, considering it merely as a work of art; and then to examine
farther, in what degree it fulfilled its expressional purposes. Accordingly, we have first
to judge of St. Mark's merely as a piece of architecture, not as a church; secondly, to estimate
its fitness for its special duty as a place of worship, and the relation in which it stands,
as such, to those northern cathedrals that still retain so much of the power over the human
heart, which the Byzantine domes appear to have lost for ever.

SECTION XXIII. In the two succeeding sections of this work, devoted respectively to the examination
of the Gothic and Renaissance buildings in Venice, I have endeavored to analyze and state,
as briefly as possible, the true nature of each school,--first in Spirit, then in Form. I wished
to have given a similar analysis, in this section, of the nature of Byzantine architecture;
but could not make my statements general, because I have never seen this kind of building on
its native soil. Nevertheless, in the following sketch of the principles exemplified in St.
Mark's, I believe that most of the leading features and motives of the style will be found
clearly enough distinguished to enable the reader to judge of it with tolerable fairness, as
compared with the better known systems of European architecture in the middle ages.

SECTION XXIV. Now the first broad characteristic of the building, and the root nearly of every
other important peculiarity in it, is its confessed incrustation. It is the purest example
in Italy of the great school of architecture in which the ruling principle is the incrustation
of brick with more precious materials; and it is necessary before we proceed to criticise any
one of its arrangements, that the reader should carefully consider the principles which are
likely to have influenced, or might legitimately influence, the architects of such a school,
as distinguished from those whose designs are to be executed in massive materials.

It is true, that among different nations, and at different times, we may find examples of every
sort and degree of incrustation, from the mere setting of the larger and more compact stones
by preference at the outside of the wall, to the miserable construction of that modern brick
cornice, with its coating of cement, which, but the other day, in London, killed its unhappy
workmen in its fall. [Footnote: Vide "Builder," for October, 1851.] But just as it is perfectly
possible to have a clear idea of the opposing characteristics of two different species of plants
or animals, though between the two there are varieties which it is difficult to assign either
to the one or the other, so the reader may fix decisively in his mind the legitimate characteristics
of the incrusted and the massive styles, though between the two there are varieties which confessedly
unite the attributes of both. For instance, in many Roman remains, built of blocks of tufa
and incrusted with marble, we have a style, which, though truly solid, possesses some of the
attributes of incrustation; and in the Cathedral of Florence, built of brick and coated with
marble, the marble facing is so firmly and exquisitely set, that the building, though in reality
incrusted, assumes the attributes of solidity. But these intermediate examples need not in
the least confuse our generally distinct ideas of the two families of buildings: the one in
which the substance is alike throughout, and the forms and conditions of the ornament assume
or prove that it is so, as in the best Greek buildings, and for the most part in our early
Norman and Gothic; and the other, in which the substance is of two kinds, one internal, the
other external, and the system of decoration is founded on this duplicity, as pre-eminently
in St. Mark's.

SECTION XXV. I have used the word duplicity in no depreciatory sense. In chapter ii. of the
"Seven Lamps," Section 18, I especially guarded this incrusted school from the imputation of
insincerity, and I must do so now at greater length. It appears insincere at first to a Northern
builder, because, accustomed to build with solid blocks of freestone, he is in the habit of
supposing the external superficies of a piece of masonry to be some criterion of its thickness.
But, as soon as he gets acquainted with the incrusted style, he will find that the Southern
builders had no intention to deceive him. He will see that every slab of facial marble is fastened
to the next by a confessed rivet, and that the joints of the armor are so visibly and openly
accommodated to the contours of the substance within, that he has no more right to complain
of treachery than a savage would have, who, for the first time in his life seeing a man in
armor, had supposed him to be made of solid steel. Acquaint him with the customs of chivalry,
and with the uses of the coat of mail, and he ceases to accuse of dishonesty either the panoply
or the knight.

These laws and customs of the St. Mark's architectural chivalry it must be our business to develop.

SECTION XXVI. First, consider the natural circumstances which give rise to such a style. Suppose
a nation of builders, placed far from any quarries of available stone, and having precarious
access to the mainland where they exist; compelled therefore either to build entirely with
brick, or to import whatever stone they use from great distances, in ships of small tonnage,
and for the most part dependent for speed on the oar rather than the sail. The labor and cost
of carriage are just as great, whether they import common or precious stone, and therefore
the natural tendency would always be to make each shipload as valuable as possible. But in
proportion to the preciousness of the stone, is the limitation of its possible supply; limitation
not determined merely by cost, but by the physical conditions of the material, for of many
marbles, pieces above a certain size are not to be had for money. There would also be a tendency
in such circumstances to import as much stone as possible ready sculptured, in order to save
weight; and therefore, if the traffic of their merchants led them to places where there were
ruins of ancient edifices, to ship the available fragments of them home. Out of this supply
of marble, partly composed of pieces of so precious a quality that only a few tons of them
could be on any terms obtained, and partly of shafts, capitals, and other portions of foreign
buildings, the island architect has to fashion, as best he may, the anatomy of his edifice.
It is at his choice either to lodge his few blocks of precious marble here and there among
his masses of brick, and to cut out of the sculptured fragments such new forms as may be necessary
for the observance of fixed proportions in the new building; or else to cut the colored stones
into thin pieces, of extent sufficient to face the whole surface of the walls, and to adopt
a method of construction irregular enough to admit the insertion of fragmentary sculptures;
rather with a view of displaying their intrinsic beauty, than of setting them to any regular
service in the support of the building.

An architect who cared only to display his own skill, and had no respect for the works of others,
would assuredly have chosen the former alternative, and would have sawn the old marbles into
fragments in order to prevent all interference with his own designs. But an architect who cared
for the preservation of noble work, whether his own or others', and more regarded the beauty
of his building than his own fame, would have done what those old builders of St. Mark's did
for us, and saved every relic with which he was entrusted.

SECTION XXVII. But these were not the only motives which influenced the Venetians in the adoption
of their method of architecture. It might, under all the circumstances above stated, have been
a question with other builders, whether to import one shipload of costly jaspers, or twenty
of chalk flints; and whether to build a small church faced with porphyry and paved with agate,
or to raise a vast cathedral in freestone. But with the Venetians it could not be a question
for an instant; they were exiles from ancient and beautiful cities, and had been accustomed
to build with their ruins, not less in affection than in admiration: they had thus not only
grown familiar with the practice of inserting older fragments in modern buildings, but they
owed to that practice a great part of the splendor of their city, and whatever charm of association
might aid its change from a Refuge into a Home. The practice which began in the affections
of a fugitive nation, was prolonged in the pride of a conquering one; and beside the memorials
of departed happiness, were elevated the trophies of returning victory. The ship of war brought
home more marble in triumph than 'the merchant vessel in speculation; and the front of St.
Mark's became rather a shrine at which to dedicate the splendor of miscellaneous spoil, than
the organized expression of any fixed architectural law, or religious emotion.

SECTION XXVIII. Thus far, however, the justification of the style of this church depends on
circumstances peculiar to the time of its erection, and to the spot where it arose. The merit
of its method, considered in the abstract, rests on far broader grounds.

In the fifth chapter of the "Seven Lamps," Section 14, the reader will find the opinion of
a modern architect of some reputation, Mr. Wood, that the chief thing remarkable in this church
"is its extreme ugliness;" and he will find this opinion associated with another, namely, that
the works of the Caracci are far preferable to those of the Venetian painters. This second
statement of feeling reveals to us one of the principal causes of the first; namely, that Mr.
Wood had not any perception of color, or delight in it. The perception of color is a gift just
as definitely granted to one person, and denied to another, as an ear for music; and the very
first requisite for true judgment of St. Mark's, is the perfection of that color-faculty which
few people ever set themselves seriously to find out whether they possess or not. For it is
on its value as a piece of perfect and unchangeable coloring, that the claims of this edifice
to our respect are finally rested; and a deaf man might as well pretend to pronounce judgment
on the merits of a full orchestra, as an architect trained in the composition of form only,
to discern the beauty of St. Mark's. It possesses the charm of color in common with the greater
part of the architecture, as well as of the manufactures, of the East; but the Venetians deserve
especial note as the only European people who appear to have sympathized to the full with the
great instinct of the Eastern races. They indeed were compelled to bring artists from Constantinople
to design the mosaics of the vaults of St. Mark's, and to group the colors of its porches;
but they rapidly took up and developed, under more masculine conditions, the system of which
the Greeks had shown them the example: while the burghers and barons of the North were building
their dark streets and grisly castles of oak and sandstone, the merchants of Venice were covering
their palaces with porphyry and gold; and at last, when her mighty painters had created for
her a color more priceless than gold or porphyry, even this, the richest of her treasures,
she lavished upon walls whose foundations were beaten by the sea; and the strong tide, as it
runs beneath the Rialto, is reddened to this day by the reflection of the frescoes of Giorgione.

SECTION XXIX. If, therefore, the reader does not care for color, I must protest against his
endeavor to form any judgment whatever of this church of St. Mark's. But, if he both cares
for and loves it, let him remember that the school of incrusted architecture is the only one
in which perfect and permanent chromatic decoration is possible; and let him look upon every
piece of jasper and alabaster given to the architect as a cake of very hard color, of which
a certain portion is to be ground down or cut off, to paint the walls with. Once understand
this thoroughly, and accept the condition that the body and availing strength of the edifice
are to be in brick, and that this under muscular power of brickwork is to be clothed with the
defence and the brightness of the marble, as the body of an animal is protected and adorned
by its scales or its skin, and all the consequent fitnesses and laws of the structure will
be easily discernible. These I shall state in their natural order.

SECTION XXX. LAW I. That the plinths and cornices used for binding the armor are to be light
and delicate. A certain thickness, at least two or three inches, must be required in the covering
pieces (even when composed of the strongest stone, and set on the least exposed parts), in
order to prevent the chance of fracture, and to allow for the wear of time. And the weight
of this armor must not be trusted to cement; the pieces must not be merely glued to the rough
brick surface, but connected with the mass which they protect by binding cornices and string
courses; and with each other, so as to secure mutual support, aided by the rivetings, but by
no means dependent upon them. And, for the full honesty and straightforwardness of the work,
it is necessary that these string courses and binding plinths should not be of such proportions
as would fit them for taking any important part in the hard work of the inner structure, or
render them liable to be mistaken for the great cornices and plinths already explained as essential
parts of the best solid building. They must be delicate, slight, and visibly incapable of severer
work than that assigned to them.

SECTION XXXI. LAW II. Science of inner structure is to be abandoned. As the body of the structure
is confessedly of inferior, and comparatively incoherent materials, it would be absurd to attempt
in it any expression of the higher refinements of construction. It will be enough that by its
mass we are assured of its sufficiency and strength; and there is the less reason for endeavoring
to diminish the extent of its surface by delicacy of adjustment, because on the breadth of
that surface we are to depend for the better display of the color, which is to be the chief
source of our pleasure in the building. The main body of the work, therefore, will be composed
of solid walls and massive piers; and whatever expression of finer structural science we may
require, will be thrown either into subordinate portions of it, or entirely directed to the
support of the external mail, where in arches or vaults it might otherwise appear dangerously
independent of the material within.

SECTION XXXII. LAW III. All shafts are to be solid. Wherever, by the smallness of the parts,
we may be driven to abandon the incrusted structure at all, it must be abandoned altogether.
The eye must never be left in the least doubt as to what is solid and what is coated. Whatever
appears probably solid, must be assuredly so, and therefore it becomes an inviolable law that
no shaft shall ever be incrusted. Not only does the whole virtue of a shaft depend on its consolidation,
but the labor of cutting and adjusting an incrusted coat to it would be greater than the saving
of material is worth. Therefore the shaft, of whatever size, is always to be solid; and because
the incrusted character of the rest of the building renders it more difficult for the shafts
to clear themselves from suspicion, they must not, in this incrusted style, be in any place
jointed. No shaft must ever be used but of one block; and this the more, because the permission
given to the builder to have his walls and piers as ponderous as he likes, renders it quite
unnecessary for him to use shafts of any fixed size. In our Norman and Gothic, where definite
support is required at a definite point, it becomes lawful to build up a tower of small stones
in the shape of a shaft. But the Byzantine is allowed to have as much support as he wants from
the walls in every direction, and he has no right to ask for further license in the structure
of his shafts. Let him, by generosity in the substance of his pillars, repay us for the permission
we have given him to be superficial in his walls. The builder in the chalk valleys of France
and England may be blameless in kneading his clumsy pier out of broken flint and calcined lime;
but the Venetian, who has access to the riches of Asia and the quarries of Egypt, must frame
at least his shafts out of flawless stone.

SECTION XXXIII. And this for another reason yet. Although, as we have said, it is impossible
to cover the walls of a large building with color, except on the condition of dividing the
stone into plates, there is always a certain appearance of meanness and niggardliness in the
procedure. It is necessary that the builder should justify himself from this suspicion; and
prove that it is not in mere economy or poverty, but in the real impossibility of doing otherwise,
that he has sheeted his walls so thinly with the precious film. Now the shaft is exactly the
portion of the edifice in which it is fittest to recover his honor in this respect. For if
blocks of jasper or porphyry be inserted in the walls, the spectator cannot tell their thickness,
and cannot judge of the costliness of the sacrifice. But the shaft he can measure with his
eye in an instant, and estimate the quantity of treasure both in the mass of its existing substance,
and in that which has been hewn away to bring it into its perfect and symmetrical form. And
thus the shafts of all buildings of this kind are justly regarded as an expression of their
wealth, and a form of treasure, just as much as the jewels or gold in the sacred vessels; they
are, in fact, nothing else than large jewels, [Footnote: "Quivi presso si vedi una colonna
di tanta bellezza e finezza che e riputato piutosto gioia che pietra,"--Sansovino, of the verd-antique
pillar in San Jacomo dell' Orio. A remarkable piece of natural history and moral philosophy,
connected with this subject, will be found in the second chapter of our third volume, quoted
from the work of a Florentine architect of the fifteenth century.] the block of precious serpentine
or jasper being valued according to its size and brilliancy of color, like a large emerald
or ruby; only the bulk required to bestow value on the one is to be measured in feet and tons,
and on the other in lines and carats. The shafts must therefore be, without exception, of one
block in all buildings of this kind; for the attempt in any place to incrust or joint them
would be a deception like that of introducing a false stone among jewellery (for a number of
joints of any precious stone are of course not equal in value to a single piece of equal weight),
and would put an end at once to the spectator's confidence in the expression of wealth in any
portion of the structure, or of the spirit of sacrifice in those who raised it.

SECTION XXXIV. LAW IV. The shafts may sometimes be independent of the construction. Exactly
in proportion to the importance which the shaft assumes as a large jewel, is the diminution
of its importance as a sustaining member; for the delight which we receive in its abstract
bulk, and beauty of color, is altogether independent of any perception of its adaptation to
mechanical necessities. Like other beautiful things in this world, its end is to be beautiful;
and, in proportion to its beauty, it receives permission to be otherwise useless. We do not
blame emeralds and rubies because we cannot make them into heads of hammers. Nay, so far from
our admiration of the jewel shaft being dependent on its doing work for us, it is very possible
that a chief part of its preciousness may consist in a delicacy, fragility, and tenderness
of material, which must render it utterly unfit for hard work; and therefore that we shall
admire it the more, because we perceive that if we were to put much weight upon it, it would
be crushed. But, at all events, it is very clear that the primal object in the placing of such
shafts must be the display of their beauty to the best advantage, and that therefore all imbedding
of them in walls, or crowding of them into groups, in any position in which either their real
size or any portion of their surface would be concealed, is either inadmissible together, or
objectionable in proportion to their value; that no symmetrical or scientific arrangements
of pillars are therefore ever to be expected in buildings of this kind, and that all such are
even to be looked upon as positive errors and misapplications of materials: but that, on the
contrary, we must be constantly prepared to see, and to see with admiration, shafts of great
size and importance set in places where their real service is little more than nominal, and
where the chief end of their existence is to catch the sunshine upon their polished sides,
and lead the eye into delighted wandering among the mazes of their azure veins.

SECTION XXXV. LAW V. The shafts may be of variable size. Since the value of each shaft depends
upon its bulk, and diminishes with the diminution of its mass, in a greater ratio than the
size itself diminishes, as in the case of all other jewellery, it is evident that we must not
in general expect perfect symmetry and equality among the series of shafts, any more than definiteness
of application; but that, on the contrary, an accurately observed symmetry ought to give us
a kind of pain, as proving that considerable and useless loss has been sustained by some of
the shafts, in being cut down to match with the rest. It is true that symmetry is generally
sought for in works of smaller jewellery; but, even there, not a perfect symmetry, and obtained
under circumstances quite different from those which affect the placing of shafts in architecture.
First: the symmetry is usually imperfect. The stones that seem to match each other in a ring
or necklace, appear to do so only because they are so small that their differences are not
easily measured by the eye; but there is almost always such difference between them as would
be strikingly apparent if it existed in the same proportion between two shafts nine or ten
feet in height. Secondly: the quantity of stones which pass through a jeweller's hands, and
the facility of exchange of such small objects, enable the tradesman to select any number of
stones of approximate size; a selection, however, often requiring so much time, that perfect
symmetry in a group of very fine stones adds enormously to their value. But the architect has
neither the time nor the facilities of exchange. He cannot lay aside one column in a corner
of his church till, in the course of traffic, he obtain another that will match it; he has
not hundreds of shafts fastened up in bundles, out of which he can match sizes at his ease;
he cannot send to a brother-tradesman and exchange the useless stones for available ones, to
the convenience of both. His blocks of stone, or his ready hewn shafts, have been brought to
him in limited number, from immense distances; no others are to be had; and for those which
he does not bring into use, there is no demand elsewhere. His only means of obtaining symmetry
will therefore be, in cutting down the finer masses to equality with the inferior ones; and
this we ought not to desire him often to do. And therefore, while sometimes in a Baldacchino,
or an important chapel or shrine, this costly symmetry may be necessary, and admirable in proportion
to its probable cost, in the general fabric we must expect to see shafts introduced of size
and proportion continually varying, and such symmetry as may be obtained among them never altogether
perfect, and dependent for its charm frequently on strange complexities and unexpected rising
and falling of weight and accent in its marble syllables; bearing the same relation to a rigidly
chiselled and proportioned architecture that the wild lyric rhythm of Aeschylus or Pindar bears
to the finished measures of Pope.

SECTION XXXVI. The application of the principles of jewellery to the smaller as well as the
larger blocks, will suggest to us another reason for the method of incrustation adopted in
the walls. It often happens that the beauty of the veining in some varieties of alabaster is
so great, that it becomes desirable to exhibit it by dividing the stone, not merely to economize
its substance, but to display the changes in the disposition of its fantastic lines. By reversing
one of two thin plates successively taken from the stone, and placing their corresponding edges
in contact, a perfectly symmetrical figure may be obtained, which will enable the eye to comprehend
more thoroughly the position of the veins. And this is actually the method in which, for the
most part, the alabasters of St. Mark are employed; thus accomplishing a double good,--directing
the spectator, in the first place, to close observation of the nature of the stone employed,
and in the second, giving him a farther proof of the honesty of intention in the builder: for
wherever similar veining is discovered in two pieces, the fact is declared that they have been
cut from the same stone. It would have been easy to disguise the similarity by using them in
different parts of the building; but on the contrary they are set edge to edge, so that the
whole system of the architecture may be discovered at a glance by any one acquainted with the
nature of the stones employed. Nay, but, it is perhaps answered me, not by an ordinary observer;
a person ignorant of the nature of alabaster might perhaps fancy all these symmetrical patterns
to have been found in the stone itself, and thus be doubly deceived, supposing blocks to be
solid and symmetrical which were in reality subdivided and irregular. I grant it; but be it
remembered, that in all things, ignorance is liable to be deceived, and has no right to accuse
anything but itself as the source of the deception. The style and the words are dishonest,
not which are liable to be misunderstood if subjected to no inquiry, but which are deliberately
calculated to lead inquiry astray. There are perhaps no great or noble truths, from those of
religion downwards, which present no mistakable aspect to casual or ignorant contemplation.
Both the truth and the lie agree in hiding themselves at first, but the lie continues to hide
itself with effort, as we approach to examine it; and leads us, if undiscovered, into deeper
lies; the truth reveals itself in proportion to our patience and knowledge, discovers itself
kindly to our pleading, and leads us, as it is discovered, into deeper truths.

SECTION XXXVII. LAW VI. The decoration must be shallow in cutting. The method of construction
being thus systematized, it is evident that a certain style of decoration must arise out of
it, based on the primal condition that over the greater part of the edifice there can be no
deep cutting. The thin sheets of covering stones do not admit of it; we must not cut them through
to the bricks; and whatever ornaments we engrave upon them cannot, therefore, be more than
an inch deep at the utmost. Consider for an instant the enormous differences which this single
condition compels between the sculptural decoration of the incrusted style, and that of the
solid stones of the North, which may be hacked and hewn into whatever cavernous hollows and
black recesses we choose; struck into grim darknesses and grotesque projections, and rugged
ploughings up of sinuous furrows, in which any form or thought may be wrought out on any scale,--mighty
statues with robes of rock and crowned foreheads burning in the sun, or venomous goblins and
stealthy dragons shrunk into lurking-places of untraceable shade: think of this, and of the
play and freedom given to the sculptor's hand and temper, to smite out and in, hither and thither,
as he will; and then consider what must be the different spirit of the design which is to be
wrought on the smooth surface of a film of marble, where every line and shadow must be drawn
with the most tender pencilling and cautious reserve of resource,--where even the chisel must
not strike hard, lest it break through the delicate stone, nor the mind be permitted in any
impetuosity of conception inconsistent with the fine discipline of the hand. Consider that
whatever animal or human form is to be suggested, must be projected on a flat surface; that
all the features of the countenance, the folds of the drapery, the involutions of the limbs,
must be so reduced and subdued that the whole work becomes rather a piece of fine drawing than
of sculpture; and then follow out, until you begin to perceive their endlessness, the resulting
differences of character which will be necessitated in every part of the ornamental designs
of these incrusted churches, as compared with that of the Northern schools. I shall endeavor
to trace a few of them only.

SECTION XXXVIII. The first would of course be a diminution of the builder's dependence upon
human form as a source of ornament: since exactly in proportion to the dignity of the form
itself is the loss which it must sustain in being reduced to a shallow and linear bas-relief,
as well as the difficulty of expressing it at all under such conditions. Wherever sculpture
can be solid, the nobler characters of the human form at once lead the artist to aim at its
representation, rather than at that of inferior organisms; but when all is to be reduced to
outline, the forms of flowers and lower animals are always more intelligible, and are felt
to approach much more to a satisfactory rendering of the objects intended, than the outlines
of the human body. This inducement to seek for resources of ornament in the lower fields of
creation was powerless in the minds of the great Pagan nations, Ninevite, Greek, or Egyptian:
first, because their thoughts were so concentrated on their own capacities and fates, that
they preferred the rudest suggestion of human form to the best of an inferior organism; secondly,
because their constant practice in solid sculpture, often colossal, enabled them to bring a
vast amount of science into the treatment of the lines, whether of the low relief, the monochrome
vase, or shallow hieroglyphic.

SECTION XXXIX. But when various ideas adverse to the representation of animal, and especially
of human, form, originating with the Arabs and iconoclast Greeks, had begun at any rate to
direct the builders' minds to seek for decorative materials in inferior types, and when diminished
practice in solid sculpture had rendered it more difficult to find artists capable of satisfactorily
reducing the high organisms to their elementary outlines, the choice of subject for surface
sculpture would be more and more uninterruptedly directed to floral organisms, and human and
animal form would become diminished in size, frequency, and general importance. So that, while
in the Northern solid architecture we constantly find the effect of its noblest features dependent
on ranges of statues, often colossal, and full of abstract interest, independent of their architectural
service, in the Southern incrusted style we must expect to find the human form for the most
part subordinate and diminutive, and involved among designs of foliage and flowers, in the
manner of which endless examples had been furnished by the fantastic ornamentation of the Romans,
from which the incrusted style had been directly derived.

SECTION XL. Farther. In proportion to the degree in which his subject must be reduced to abstract
outline will be the tendency in the sculptor to abandon naturalism of representation, and subordinate
every form to architectural service. Where the flower or animal can be hewn into bold relief,
there will always be a temptation to render the representation of it more complete than is
necessary, or even to introduce details and intricacies inconsistent with simplicity of distant
effect. Very often a worse fault than this is committed; and in the endeavor to give vitality
to the stone, the original ornamental purpose of the design is sacrificed or forgotten. But
when nothing of this kind can be attempted, and a slight outline is all that the sculptor can
command, we may anticipate that this outline will be composed with exquisite grace; and that
the richness of its ornamental arrangement will atone for the feebleness of its power of portraiture.
On the porch of a Northern cathedral we may seek for the images of the flowers that grow in
the neighboring fields, and as we watch with wonder the gray stones that fret themselves into
thorns, and soften into blossoms, we may care little that these knots of ornament, as we retire
from them to contemplate the whole building, appear unconsidered or confused. On the incrusted
building we must expect no such deception of the eye or thoughts. It may sometimes be difficult
to determine, from the involutions of its linear sculpture, what were the natural forms which
originally suggested them: but we may confidently expect that the grace of their arrangement
will always be complete; that there will not be a line in them which could be taken away without
injury, nor one wanting which could be added with advantage.

SECTION XLI. Farther. While the sculptures of the incrusted school will thus be generally distinguished
by care and purity rather than force, and will be, for the most part, utterly wanting in depth
of shadow, there will be one means of obtaining darkness peculiarly simple and obvious, and
often in the sculptor's power. Wherever he can, without danger, leave a hollow behind his covering
slabs, or use them, like glass, to fill an aperture in the wall, he can, by piercing them with
holes, obtain points or spaces of intense blackness to contrast with the light tracing of the
rest of his design. And we may expect to find this artifice used the more extensively, because,
while it will be an effective means of ornamentation on the exterior of the building, it will
be also the safest way of admitting light to the interior, still totally excluding both rain
and wind. And it will naturally follow that the architect, thus familiarized with the effect
of black and sudden points of shadow, will often seek to carry the same principle into other
portions of his ornamentation, and by deep drill-holes, or perhaps inlaid portions of black
color, to refresh the eye where it may be wearied by the lightness of the general handling.

SECTION XLII. Farther. Exactly in proportion to the degree in which the force of sculpture
is subdued, will be the importance attached to color as a means of effect or constituent of
beauty. I have above stated that the incrusted style was the only one in which perfect or permanent
color decoration was possible. It is also the only one in which a true system of color decoration
was ever likely to be invented. In order to understand this, the reader must permit me to review
with some care the nature of the principles of coloring adopted by the Northern and Southern
nations.

SECTION XLIII. I believe that from the beginning of the world there has never been a true or
fine school of art in which color was despised. It has often been imperfectly attained and
injudiciously applied, but I believe it to be one of the essential signs of life in a school
of art, that it loves color; and I know it to be one of the first signs of death in the Renaissance
schools, that they despised color.

Observe, it is not now the question whether our Northern cathedrals are better with color or
without. Perhaps the great monotone gray of Nature and of Time is a better color than any that
the human hand can give; but that is nothing to our present business. The simple fact is, that
the builders of those cathedrals laid upon them the brightest colors they could obtain, and
that there is not, as far as I am aware, in Europe, any monument of a truly noble school which
has not been either painted all over, or vigorously touched with paint, mosaic, and gilding
in its prominent parts. Thus far Egyptians, Greeks, Goths, Arabs, and mediaeval Christians
all agree: none of them, when in their right senses, ever think of doing without paint; and,
therefore, when I said above that the Venetians were the only people who had thoroughly sympathized
with the Arabs in this respect, I referred, first, to their intense love of color, which led
them to lavish the most expensive decorations on ordinary dwelling-houses; and, secondly, to
that perfection of the color-instinct in them, which enabled them to render whatever they did,
in this kind, as just in principle as it was gorgeous in appliance. It is this principle of
theirs, as distinguished from that of the Northern builders, which we have finally to examine.

SECTION XLIV. In the second chapter of the first volume, it was noticed that the architect
of Bourges Cathedral liked hawthorn, and that the porch of his cathedral was therefore decorated
with a rich wreath of it; but another of the predilections of that architect was there unnoticed,
namely, that he did not at all like gray hawthorn, but preferred it green, and he painted it
green accordingly, as bright as he could. The color is still left in every sheltered interstice
of the foliage. He had, in fact, hardly the choice of any other color; he might have gilded
the thorns, by way of allegorizing human life, but if they were to be painted at all, they
could hardly be painted anything but green, and green all over. People would have been apt
to object to any pursuit of abstract harmonies of color, which might have induced him to paint
his hawthorn blue.

SECTION XLV. In the same way, whenever the subject of the sculpture was definite, its color
was of necessity definite also; and, in the hands of the Northern builders, it often became,
in consequence, rather the means of explaining and animating the stories of their stone-work,
than a matter of abstract decorative science. Flowers were painted red, trees green, and faces
flesh-color; the result of the whole being often far more entertaining than beautiful. And
also, though in the lines of the mouldings and the decorations of shafts or vaults, a richer
and more abstract method of coloring was adopted (aided by the rapid development of the best
principles of color in early glass-painting), the vigorous depths of shadow in the Northern
sculpture confused the architect's eye, compelling him to use violent colors in the recesses,
if these were to be seen as color at all, and thus injured his perception of more delicate
color harmonies; so that in innumerable instances it becomes very disputable whether monuments
even of the best times were improved by the color bestowed upon them, or the contrary. But,
in the South, the flatness and comparatively vague forms of the sculpture, while they appeared
to call for color in order to enhance their interest, presented exactly the conditions which
would set it off to the greatest advantage; breadth or surface displaying even the most delicate
tints in the lights, and faintness of shadow joining with the most delicate and pearly grays
of color harmony; while the subject of the design being in nearly all cases reduced to mere
intricacy of ornamental line, might be colored in any way the architect chose without any loss
of rationality. Where oak-leaves and roses were carved into fresh relief and perfect bloom,
it was necessary to paint the one green and the other red; but in portions of ornamentation
where there was nothing which could be definitely construed into either an oak-leaf or a rose,
but a mere labyrinth of beautiful lines, becoming here something like a leaf, and there something
like a flower, the whole tracery of the sculpture might be left white, and grounded with gold
or blue, or treated in any other manner best harmonizing with the colors around it. And as
the necessarily feeble character of the sculpture called for and was ready to display the best
arrangements of color, so the precious marbles in the architect's hands give him at once the
best examples and the best means of color. The best examples, for the tints of all natural
stones are as exquisite in quality as endless in change; and the best means, for they are all
permanent.

SECTION XLVI. Every motive thus concurred in urging him to the study of chromatic decoration,
and every advantage was given him in the pursuit of it; and this at the very moment when, as
presently to be noticed, the naivete of barbaric Christianity could only be forcibly appealed
to by the help of colored pictures: so that, both externally and internally, the architectural
construction became partly merged in pictorial effect; and the whole edifice is to be regarded
less as a temple wherein to pray, than as itself a Book of Common Prayer, a vast illuminated
missal, bound with alabaster instead of parchment, studded with porphyry pillars instead of
jewels, and written within and without in letters of enamel and gold.

SECTION XLVII. LAW VII. That the impression of the architecture is not to be dependent on size.
And now there is but one final consequence to be deduced. The reader understands, I trust,
by this time, that the claims of these several parts of the building upon his attention will
depend upon their delicacy of design, their perfection of color, their preciousness of material,
and their legendary interest. All these qualities are independent of size, and partly even
inconsistent with it. Neither delicacy of surface sculpture, nor subtle gradations of color,
can be appreciated by the eye at a distance; and since we have seen that our sculpture is generally
to be only an inch or two in depth, and that our coloring is in great part to be produced with
the soft tints and veins of natural stones, it will follow necessarily that none of the parts
of the building can be removed far from the eye, and therefore that the whole mass of it cannot
be large. It is not even desirable that it should be so; for the temper in which the mind addresses
itself to contemplate minute and beautiful details is altogether different from that in which
it submits itself to vague impressions of space and size. And therefore we must not be disappointed,
but grateful, when we find all the best work of the building concentrated within a space comparatively
small; and that, for the great cliff-like buttresses and mighty piers of the North, shooting
up into indiscernible height, we have here low walls spread before us like the pages of a book,
and shafts whose capitals we may touch with our hand.

SECTION XLVIII. The due consideration of the principles above stated will enable the traveller
to judge with more candor and justice of the architecture of St. Mark's than usually it would
have been possible for him to do while under the influence of the prejudices necessitated by
familiarity with the very different schools of Northern art. I wish it were in my power to
lay also before the general reader some exemplification of the manner in which these strange
principles are developed in the lovely building. But exactly in proportion to the nobility
of any work, is the difficulty of conveying a just impression of it: and wherever I have occasion
to bestow high praise, there it is exactly most dangerous for me to endeavor to illustrate
my meaning, except by reference to the work itself. And, in fact, the principal reason why
architectural criticism is at this day so far behind all other, is the impossibility of illustrating
the best architecture faithfully. Of the various schools of painting, examples are accessible
to every one, and reference to the works themselves is found sufficient for all purposes of
criticism; but there is nothing like St. Mark's or the Ducal Palace to be referred to in the
National Gallery, and no faithful illustration of them is possible on the scale of such a volume
as this. And it is exceedingly difficult on any scale. Nothing is so rare in art, as far as
my own experience goes, as a fair illustration of architecture; perfect illustration of it
does not exist. For all good architecture depends upon the adaptation of its chiselling to
the effect at a certain distance from the eye; and to render the peculiar confusion in the
midst of order, and uncertainty in the midst of decision, and mystery in the midst of trenchant
lines, which are the result of distance, together with perfect expression of the peculiarities
of the design, requires the skill of the most admirable artist, devoted to the work with the
most severe conscientiousness, neither the skill nor the determination having as yet been given
to the subject. And in the illustration of details, every building of any pretensions to high
architectural rank would require a volume of plates, and those finished with extraordinary
care. With respect to the two buildings which are the principal subjects of the present volume,
St. Mark's and the Ducal Palace, I have found it quite impossible to do them the slightest
justice by any kind of portraiture; and I abandoned the endeavor in the case of the latter
with less regret, because in the new Crystal Palace (as the poetical public insist upon calling
it, though it is neither a palace, nor of crystal) there will be placed, I believe, a noble
cast of one of its angles. As for St. Mark's, the effort was hopeless from the beginning. For
its effect depends not only upon the most delicate sculpture in every part, out, as we have
just stated, eminently on its color also, and that the most subtle, variable, inexpressible
color in the world,--the color of glass, of transparent alabaster, of polished marble, and
lustrous gold. It would be easier to illustrate a crest of Scottish mountain, with its purple
heather and pale harebells at their fullest and fairest, or a glade of Jura forest, with its
floor of anemone and moss, than a single portico of St. Mark's. The fragment of one of its
archivolts, given at the bottom of the opposite Plate, is not to illustrate the thing itself,
but to illustrate the impossibility of illustration.

SECTION XLIX. It is left a fragment, in order to get it on a larger scale; and yet even on
this scale it is too small to show the sharp folds and points of the marble vine-leaves with
sufficient clearness. The ground of it is gold, the sculpture in the spandrils is not more
than an inch and a half deep, rarely so much. It is in fact nothing more than an exquisite
sketching of outlines in marble, to about the same depth as in the Elgin frieze; the draperies,
however, being filled with close folds, in the manner of the Byzantine pictures, folds especially
necessary here, as large masses could not be expressed in the shallow sculpture without becoming
insipid; but the disposition of these folds is always most beautiful, and often opposed by
broad and simple spaces, like that obtained by the scroll in the hand of the prophet seen in
the Plate.

The balls in the archivolt project considerably, and the interstices between their interwoven
bands of marble are filled with colors like the illuminations of a manuscript; violet, crimson,
blue, gold, and green alternately: but no green is ever used without an intermixture of blue
pieces in the mosaic, nor any blue without a little centre of pale green; sometimes only a
single piece of glass a quarter of an inch square, so subtle was the feeling for color which
was thus to be satisfied. [Footnote: The fact is, that no two tesserae of the glass are exactly
of the same tint, the greens being all varied with blues, the blues of different depths, the
reds of different clearness, so that the effect of each mass of color is full of variety, like
the stippled color of a fruit piece.] The intermediate circles have golden stars set on an
azure ground, varied in the same manner; and the small crosses seen in the intervals are alternately
blue and subdued scarlet, with two small circles of white set in the golden ground above and
beneath them, each only about half an inch across (this work, remember, being on the outside
of the building, and twenty feet above the eye), while the blue crosses have each a pale green
centre. Of all this exquisitely mingled hue, no plate, however large or expensive, could give
any adequate conception; but, if the reader will supply in imagination to the engraving what
he supplies to a common woodcut of a group of flowers, the decision of the respective merits
of modern and of Byzantine architecture may be allowed to rest on this fragment of St. Mark's
alone.

From the vine-leaves of that archivolt, though there is no direct imitation of nature in them,
but on the contrary a studious subjection to architectural purpose more particularly to be
noticed hereafter, we may yet receive the same kind of pleasure which we have in seeing true
vine-leaves and wreathed branches traced upon golden light; its stars upon their azure ground
ought to make us remember, as its builder remembered, the stars that ascend and fall in the
great arch of the sky: and I believe that stars, and boughs, and leaves, and bright colors
are everlastingly lovely, and to be by all men beloved; and, moreover, that church walls grimly
seared with squared lines, are not better nor nobler things than these. I believe the man who
designed and the men who delighted in that archivolt to have been wise, happy, and holy. Let
the reader look back to the archivolt I have already given out of the streets of London (Plate
XIII. Vol. I., Stones of Venice), and see what there is in it to make us any of the three.
Let him remember that the men who design such work as that call St. Mark's a barbaric monstrosity,
and let him judge between us.

SECTION L. Some farther details of the St. Mark's architecture, and especially a general account
of Byzantine capitals, and of the principal ones at the angles of the church, will be found
in the following chapter. [Footnote: Some illustration, also, of what was said in SECTION XXXIII
above, respecting the value of the shafts of St. Mark's as large jewels, will be found in Appendix
9, "Shafts of St. Mark's."] Here I must pass on to the second part of our immediate subject,
namely, the inquiry how far the exquisite and varied ornament of St. Mark's fits it, as a Temple,
for its sacred purpose, and would be applicable in the churches of modern times. We have here
evidently two questions: the first, that wide and continually agitated one, whether richness
of ornament be right in churches at all; the second, whether the ornament of St. Mark's be
of a truly ecclesiastical and Christian character.

SECTION LI. In the first chapter of the "Seven Lamps of Architecture" I endeavored to lay before
the reader some reasons why churches ought to be richly adorned, as being the only places in
which the desire of offering a portion of all precious things to God could be legitimately
expressed. But I left wholly untouched the question: whether the church, as such, stood in
need of adornment, or would be better fitted for its purposes by possessing it. This question
I would now ask the reader to deal with briefly and candidly.

The chief difficulty in deciding it has arisen from its being always presented to us in an
unfair form. It is asked of us, or we ask of ourselves, whether the sensation which we now
feel in passing from our own modern dwelling-house, through a newly built street, into a cathedral
of the thirteenth century, be safe or desirable as a preparation for public worship. But we
never ask whether that sensation was at all calculated upon by the builders of the cathedral.

SECTION LII. Now I do not say that the contrast of the ancient with the modern building, and
the strangeness with which the earlier architectural forms fall upon the eye, are at this day
disadvantageous. But I do say, that their effect, whatever it may be, was entirely uncalculated
upon by the old builder. He endeavored to make his work beautiful, but never expected it to
be strange. And we incapacitate ourselves altogether from fair judgment of its intention, if
we forget that, when it was built, it rose in the midst of other work fanciful and beautiful
as itself; that every dwelling-house in the middle ages was rich with the same ornaments and
quaint with the same grotesques which fretted the porches or animated the gargoyles of the
cathedral; that what we now regard with doubt and wonder, as well as with delight, was then
the natural continuation, into the principal edifice of the city, of a style which was familiar
to every eye throughout all its lanes and streets; and that the architect had often no more
idea of producing a peculiarly devotional impression by the richest color and the most elaborate
carving, than the builder of a modern meetinghouse has by his white-washed walls and square-cut
casements. [Footnote: See the farther notice of this subject in Vol. III., Chap. IV. Stones
of Venice.]

SECTION LIII. Let the reader fix this great fact well in his mind, and then follow out its
important corollaries. We attach, in modern days, a kind of sacredness to the pointed arch
and the groined roof, because, while we look habitually out of square windows and live under
flat ceilings, we meet with the more beautiful forms in the ruins of our abbeys. But when those
abbeys were built, the pointed arch was used for every shop door, as well as for that of the
cloister, and the feudal baron and freebooter feasted, as the monk sang, under vaulted roofs;
not because the vaulting was thought especially appropriate to either the revel or psalm, but
because it was then the form in which a strong roof was easiest built. We have destroyed the
goodly architecture of our cities; we have substituted one wholly devoid of beauty or meaning;
and then we reason respecting the strange effect upon our minds of the fragments which, fortunately,
we have left in our churches, as if those churches had always been designed to stand out in
strong relief from all the buildings around them, and Gothic architecture had always been,
what it is now, a religious language, like Monkish Latin. Most readers know, if they would
arouse their knowledge, that this was not so; but they take no pains to reason the matter out:
they abandon themselves drowsily to the impression that Gothic is a peculiarly ecclesiastical
style; and sometimes, even, that richness in church ornament is a condition or furtherance
of the Romish religion. Undoubtedly it has become so in modern times: for there being no beauty
in our recent architecture, and much in the remains of the past, and these remains being almost
exclusively ecclesiastical, the High Church and Romanist parties have not been slow in availing
themselves of the natural instincts which were deprived of all food except from this source;
and have willingly promulgated the theory, that because all the good architecture that is now
left is expressive of High Church or Romanist doctrines, all good architecture ever has been
and must be so,--a piece of absurdity from which, though here and there a country clergyman
may innocently believe it, I hope the common sense of the nation will soon manfully quit itself.
It needs but little inquiry into the spirit of the past, to ascertain what, once for all, I
would desire here clearly and forcibly to assert, that wherever Christian church architecture
has been good and lovely, it has been merely the perfect development of the common dwelling-house
architecture of the period; that when the pointed arch was used in the street, it was used
in the church; when the round arch was used in the street, it was used in the church; when
the pinnacle was set over the garret window, it was set over the belfry tower; when the flat
roof was used for the drawing-room, it was used for the nave. There is no sacredness in round
arches, nor in pointed; none in pinnacles, nor in buttresses; none in pillars, nor traceries.
Churches were larger than in most other buildings, because they had to hold more people; they
were more adorned than most other buildings, because they were safer from violence, and were
the fitting subjects of devotional offering: but they were never built in any separate, mystical,
and religious style; they were built in the manner that was common and familiar to everybody
at the time. The flamboyant traceries that adorn the facade of Rouen Cathedral had once their
fellows in every window of every house in the market place; the sculptures that adorn the porches
of St. Mark's had once their match on the walls, of every palace on the Grand Canal; and the
only difference between the church and the dwelling-house was, that there existed a symbolical
meaning in the distribution of the parts of all buildings meant for worship, and that the painting
or sculpture was, in the one case, less frequently of profane subject than in the other. A
more severe distinction cannot be drawn: for secular history was constantly introduced into
church architecture; and sacred history or allusion generally formed at least one half of the
ornament of the dwelling-house.

SECTION LIV. This fact is so important, and so little considered, that I must be pardoned for
dwelling upon it at some length, and accurately marking the limits of the assertion I have
made. I do not mean that every dwelling-house of mediaeval cities was as richly adorned and
as exquisite in composition as the fronts of their cathedrals, but that they presented features
of the same kind, often in parts quite as beautiful; and that the churches were not separated
by any change of style from the buildings round them, as they are now, but were merely more
finished and full examples of a universal style, rising out of the confused streets of the
city as an oak tree does out of an oak copse, not differing in leafage, but in size and symmetry.
Of course the quainter and smaller forms of turret and window necessary for domestic service,
the inferior materials, often wood instead of stone, and the fancy of the inhabitants, which
had free play in the design, introduced oddnesses, vulgarities, and variations into house architecture,
which were prevented by the traditions, the wealth, and the skill of the monks and freemasons;
while, on the other hand, conditions of vaulting, buttressing, and arch and tower building,
were necessitated by the mere size of the cathedral, of which it would be difficult to find
examples elsewhere. But there was nothing more in these features than the adaptation of mechanical
skill to vaster requirements; there was nothing intended to be, or felt to be, especially ecclesiastical
in any of the forms so developed; and the inhabitants of every village and city, when they
furnished funds for the decoration of their church, desired merely to adorn the house of God
as they adorned their own, only a little more richly, and with a somewhat graver temper in
the subjects of the carving. Even this last difference is not always clearly discernible: all
manner of ribaldry occurs in the details of the ecclesiastical buildings of the North, and
at the time when the best of them were built, every man's house was a kind of temple; a figure
of the Madonna, or of Christ, almost always occupied a niche over the principal door, and the
Old Testament histories were curiously interpolated amidst the grotesques of the brackets and
the gables.

SECTION LV. And the reader will now perceive that the question respecting fitness of church
decoration rests in reality on totally different grounds from those commonly made foundations
of argument. So long as our streets are walled with barren brick, and our eyes rest continually,
in our daily life, on objects utterly ugly, or of inconsistent and meaningless design, it may
be a doubtful question whether the faculties of eye and mind which are capable of perceiving
beauty, having been left without food during the whole of our active life, should be suddenly
feasted upon entering a place of worship; and color, and music, and sculpture should delight
the senses, and stir the curiosity of men unaccustomed to such appeal, at the moment when they
are required to compose themselves for acts of devotion;--this, I say, may be a doubtful question:
but it cannot be a question at all, that if once familiarized with beautiful form and color,
and accustomed to see in whatever human hands have executed for us, even for the lowest services,
evidence of noble thought and admirable skill, we shall desire to see this evidence also in
whatever is built or labored for the house of prayer; that the absence of the accustomed loveliness
would disturb instead of assisting devotion; and that we should feel it as vain to ask whether,
with our own house full of goodly craftsmanship, we should worship God in a house destitute
of it, as to ask whether a pilgrim whose day's journey had led him through fair woods and by
sweet waters, must at evening turn aside into some barren place to pray.

SECTION LVI. Then the second question submitted to us, whether the ornament of St. Mark's be
truly ecclesiastical and Christian, is evidently determined together with the first; for, if
not only the permission of ornament at all, but the beautiful execution of it, be dependent
on our being familiar with it in daily life, it will follow that no style of noble architecture
can be exclusively ecclesiastical. It must be practised in the dwelling before it be perfected
in the church, and it is the test of a noble style that it shall be applicable to both; for
if essentially false and ignoble, it may be made to fit the dwelling-house, but never can be
made to fit the church: and just as there are many principles which will bear the light of
the world's opinion, yet will not bear the light of God's word, while all principles which
will bear the test of Scripture will also bear that of practice, so in architecture there are
many forms which expediency and convenience may apparently justify, or at least render endurable,
in daily use, which will yet be found offensive the moment they are used for church service;
but there are none good for church service, which cannot bear daily use. Thus the Renaissance
manner of building is a convenient style for dwelling-houses, but the natural sense of all
religious men causes them to turn from it with pain when it has been used in churches; and
this has given rise to the popular idea that the Roman style is good for houses and the Gothic
for churches. This is not so; the Roman style is essentially base, and we can bear with it
only so long as it gives us convenient windows and spacious rooms; the moment the question
of convenience is set aside, and the expression or beauty of the style it tried by its being
used in a church, we find it fails. But because the Gothic and Byzantine styles are fit for
churches they are not therefore less fit for dwellings. They are in the highest sense fit and
good for both, nor were they ever brought to perfection except where they were used for both.

SECTION LVII. But there is one character of Byzantine work which, according to the time at
which it was employed, may be considered as either fitting or unfitting it for distinctly ecclesiastical
purposes; I mean the essentially pictorial character of its decoration. We have already seen
what large surfaces it leaves void of bold architectural features, to be rendered interesting
merely by surface ornament or sculpture. In this respect Byzantine work differs essentially
from pure Gothic styles, which are capable of filling every vacant space by features purely
architectural, and may be rendered, if we please, altogether independent of pictorial aid.
A Gothic church may be rendered impressive by mere successions of arches, accumulations of
niches, and entanglements of tracery. But a Byzantine church requires expression and interesting
decoration over vast plane surfaces,--decoration which becomes noble only by becoming pictorial;
that is to say, by representing natural objects,--men, animals, or flowers. And, therefore,
the question whether the Byzantine style be fit for church service in modern days, becomes
involved in the inquiry, what effect upon religion has been or may yet be produced by pictorial
art, and especially by the art of the mosaicist?

SECTION LVIII. The more I have examined the subject the more dangerous I have found it to dogmatize
respecting the character of the art which is likely, at a given period, to be most useful to
the cause of religion. One great fact first meets me. I cannot answer for the experience of
others, but I never yet met with a Christian whose heart was thoroughly set upon the world
to come, and, so far as human judgment could pronounce, perfect and right before God, who cared
about art at all. I have known several very noble Christian men who loved it intensely, but
in them there was always traceable some entanglement of the thoughts with the matters of this
world, causing them to fall into strange distresses and doubts, and often leading them into
what they themselves would confess to be errors in understanding, or even failures in duty.
I do not say that these men may not, many of them, be in very deed nobler than those whose
conduct is more consistent; they may be more tender in the tone of all their feelings, and
farther-sighted in soul, and for that very reason exposed to greater trials and fears, than
those whose hardier frame and naturally narrower vision enable them with less effort to give
their hands to God and walk with Him. But still, the general fact is indeed so, that I have
never known a man who seemed altogether right and calm in faith, who seriously cared about
art; and when casually moved by it, it is quite impossible to say beforehand by what class
of art this impression will on such men be made. Very often it is by a theatrical commonplace,
more frequently still by false sentiment. I believe that the four painters who have had, and
still have, the most influence, such as it is, on the ordinary Protestant Christian mind, are
Carlo Dolci, Guercino, Benjamin West, and John Martin. Raphael, much as he is talked about,
is, I believe in very fact, rarely looked at by religious people; much less his master, or
any of the truly great religious men of old. But a smooth Magdalen of Carlo Dolci with a tear
on each cheek, or a Guercino Christ or St. John, or a Scripture illustration of West's, or
a black cloud with a flash of lightning in it of Martin's, rarely rails of being verily, often
deeply, felt for the time.

SECTION LIX. There are indeed many very evident reasons for this; the chief one being that,
as all truly great religious painters have been hearty Romanists, there are none of their works
which do not embody, in some portions of them, definitely Romanist doctrines. The Protestant
mind is instantly struck by these, and offended by them, so as to be incapable of entering,
or at least rendered indisposed to enter, farther into the heart of the work, or to the discovering
those deeper characters of it, which are not Romanist, but Christian, in the everlasting sense
and power of Christianity. Thus most Protestants, entering for the first time a Paradise of
Angelico, would be irrevocably offended by finding that the first person the painter wished
them to speak to was St. Dominic; and would retire from such a heaven as speedily as possible,--not
giving themselves time to discover, that whether dressed in black, or white, or gray, and by
whatever name in the calendar they might be called, the figures that filled that Angelico heaven
were indeed more, saintly, and pure, and full of love in every feature, than any that the human
hand ever traced before or since. And thus Protestantism, having foolishly sought for the little
help it requires at the hand of painting from the men who embodied no Catholic doctrine, has
been reduced to receive it from those who believed neither Catholicism nor Protestantism, but
who read the Bible in search of the picturesque. We thus refuse to regard the painters who
passed their lives in prayer, but are perfectly ready to be taught by those who spent them
in debauchery. There is perhaps no more popular Protestant picture than Salvator's "Witch of
Endor," of which the subject was chosen by the painter simply because, under the names of Saul
and the Sorceress, he could paint a captain of banditti, and a Neapolitan hag.

SECTION LX. The fact seems to be that strength of religious feeling is capable of supplying
for itself whatever is wanting in the rudest suggestions of art, and will either, on the one
hand, purify what is coarse into inoffensiveness, or, on the other, raise what is feeble into
impressiveness. Probably all art, as such, is unsatisfactory to it; and the effort which it
makes to supply the void will be induced rather by association and accident than by the real
merit of the work submitted to it. The likeness to a beloved friend, the correspondence with
a habitual conception, the freedom from any strange or offensive particularity, and, above
all, an interesting choice of incident, will win admiration for a picture when the noblest
efforts of religious imagination would otherwise fail of power. How much more, when to the
quick capacity of emotion is joined a childish trust that the picture does indeed represent
a fact! It matters little whether the fact be well or ill told; the moment we believe the picture
to be true, we complain little of its being ill-painted. Let it be considered for a moment,
whether the child, with its colored print, inquiring eagerly and gravely which is Joseph, and
which is Benjamin, is not more capable of receiving a strong, even a sublime, impression from
the rude symbol which it invests with reality by its own effort, than the connoisseur who admires
the grouping of the three figures in Raphael's "Telling of the Dreams;" and whether also, when
the human mind is in right religious tone, it has not always this childish power--I speak advisedly,
this power--a noble one, and possessed more in youth than at any period of after life, but
always, I think, restored in a measure by religion--of raising into sublimity and reality the
rudest symbol which is given to it of accredited truth.

SECTION LXI. Ever since the period of the Renaissance, however, the truth has not been accredited;
the painter of religious subject is no longer regarded as the narrator of a fact, but as the
inventor of an idea. [Footnote: I do not mean that modern Christians believe less in the facts
than ancient Christians, but they do not believe in the representation of the facts as true.
We look upon the picture as this or that painter's conception; the elder Christians looked
upon it as this or that, painter's description of what had actually taken place. And in the
Greek Church all painting is, to this day, strictly a branch of tradition. See M. Dideron's
admirably written introduction to his Iconographie Chretienne, p. 7:--"Un de mes compagnons
s'etonnait de re trouver a la Panagia de St. Luc, le saint Jean Chrysostome qu'il avait dessine
dans le baptistere de St. Marc, a Venise. For as religious faith renders emotion facile, so
also it generally renders expression simple; that is to say a truly religious painter will
very often be ruder, quainter, simpler, and more faulty in his manner of working, than a great
irreligious one. And it was in this artless utterance, and simple acceptance, on the part of
both the workman and the beholder, that all noble schools of art have been cradled; it is in
them that they must be cradled to the end of time. It is impossible to calculate the enormous
loss of power in modern days, owing to the imperative requirement that art shall be methodical
and learned: for as long as the constitution of this world remains unaltered, there will be
more intellect in it than there can be education; there will be many men capable of just sensation
and vivid invention, who never will have time to cultivate or polish their natural powers.
And all unpolished power is in the present state of society lost; in other things as well as
in the arts, but in the arts especially: nay, in nine cases out of ten, people mistake the
polish for the power. Until a man has passed through a course of academy studentship, and can
draw in an approved manner with French chalk, and knows foreshortening, and perspective, and
something of anatomy, we do not think he can possibly be an artist; what is worse, we are very
apt to think that we can make him an artist by teaching him anatomy, and how to draw with French
chalk; whereas the real gift in him is utterly independent of all such accomplishments: and
I believe there are many peasants on every estate, and laborers in every town of Europe, who
have imaginative powers of a high order, which nevertheless cannot be used for our good, because
we do not choose to look at anything but what is expressed in a legal and scientific way. I
believe there is many a village mason who, set to carve a series of Scripture or any other
histories, would find many a strange and noble fancy in his head, and set it down, roughly
enough indeed, but in a way well worth our having. But we are too grand to let him do this,
or to set up his clumsy work when it is done; and accordingly the poor stone-mason is kept
hewing stones smooth at the corners, and we build our church of the smooth square stones, and
consider ourselves wise.

SECTION LXII. I shall pursue this subject farther in another place; but I allude to it here
in order to meet the objections of those persons who suppose the mosaics of St. Mark's, and
others of the period, to be utterly barbarous as representations of religious history. Let
it be granted that they are so; we are not for that reason to suppose they were ineffective
in religious teaching. I have above spoken of the whole church as a great Book of Common Prayer;
the mosaics were its illuminations, and the common people of the time were taught their Scripture
history by means of them, more impressively perhaps, though far less fully, than ours are now
by Scripture reading. They had no other Bible, and--Protestants do not often enough consider
this--could have no other. We find it somewhat difficult to furnish our poor with printed Bibles;
consider what the difficulty must have been when they could be given only in manuscript. The
walls of the church necessarily became the poor man's Bible, and a picture was more easily
read upon the walls than a chapter. Under this view, and considering them merely as the Bible
pictures of a great nation in its youth, I shall finally invite the reader to examine the connection
and subjects of these mosaics; but in the meantime I have to deprecate the idea of their execution
being in any sense barbarous. I have conceded too much to modern prejudice, in permitting them
to be rated as mere childish efforts at colored portraiture: they have characters in them of
a very noble kind; nor are they by any means devoid of the remains of the science of the later
Roman empire. The character of the features is almost always fine, the expression stern and
quiet, and very solemn, the attitudes and draperies always majestic in the single figures,
and in those of the groups which are not in violent action; [Footnote: All the effects of Byzantine
art to represent violent action are inadequate, most of them ludicrously so, even when the
sculptural art is in other respects far advanced. The early Gothic sculptors, on the other
hand, fail in all points of refinement, but hardly ever in expression of action. This distinction
is of course one of the necessary consequences of the difference in all respects between the
repose of the Eastern, and activity of the Western mind, which we shall have to trace out completely
in the inquiry into the nature of Gothic.] while the bright coloring and disregard of chiaroscuro
cannot be regarded as imperfections, since they are the only means by which the figures could
be rendered clearly intelligible in the distance and darkness of the vaulting. So far am I
from considering them barbarous, that I believe of all works of religious art whatsoever, these,
and such as these, have been the most effective. They stand exactly midway between the debased
manufacture of wooden and waxen images which is the support of Romanist idolatry all over the
world, and the great art which leads the mind away from the religious subject to the art itself.
Respecting neither of these branches of human skill is there, nor can there be, any question.
The manufacture of puppets, however influential on the Romanist mind of Europe, is certainly
not deserving of consideration as one of the fine arts. It matters literally nothing to a Romanist
what the image he worships is like. Take the vilest doll that is screwed together in a cheap
toy-shop, trust it to the keeping of a large family of children, let it be beaten about the
house by them till it is reduced to a shapeless block, then dress it in a satin frock and declare
it to have fallen from heaven, and it will satisfactorily answer all Romanist purposes. Idolatry,
[Footnote: Appendix X, "Proper Sense of the word Idolatry."] it cannot be too often repeated,
is no encourager of the fine arts. But, on the other hand, the highest branches of the fine
arts are no encouragers either of idolatry or of religion. No picture of Leonardo's or Raphael's,
no statue of Michael Angelo's, has ever been worshipped, except by accident. Carelessly regarded,
and by ignorant persons, there is less to attract in them than in commoner works. Carefully
regarded, and by intelligent persons, they instantly divert the mind from their subject to
their art, so that admiration takes the place of devotion. I do not say that the Madonna di
S. Sisto, the Madonna del Cardellino, and such others, have not had considerable religious
influence on certain minds, but I say that on the mass of the people of Europe they have had
none whatever, while by far the greater number of the most celebrated statues and pictures
are never regarded with any other feelings than those of admiration of human beauty, or reverence
for human skill. Effective religious art, therefore, has always lain, and I believe must always
lie, between the two extremes--of barbarous idol-fashioning on one side, and magnificent craftsmanship
on the other. It consists partly in missal-painting, and such book-illustrations as, since
the invention of printing, have taken its place; partly in glass-painting; partly in rude sculpture
on the outsides of buildings; partly in mosaics; and partly in the frescoes and tempera pictures
which, in the fourteenth century, formed the link between this powerful, because imperfect,
religious art, and the impotent perfection which succeeded it.

SECTION LXIII. But of all these branches the most important are the inlaying and mosaic of
the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, represented in a central manner by these mosaics of St.
Mark's. Missal-painting could not, from its minuteness, produce the same sublime impressions,
and frequently merged itself in mere ornamentation of the page. Modern book-illustration has
been so little skillful as hardly to be worth naming. Sculpture, though in some positions it
becomes of great importance, has always a tendency to lose itself in architectural effect;
and was probably seldom deciphered, in all its parts, by the common people, still less the
traditions annealed in the purple burning of the painted window. Finally, tempera pictures
and frescoes were often of limited size or of feeble color. But the great mosaics of the twelfth
and thirteenth centuries covered the walls and roofs of the churches with inevitable lustre;
they could not be ignored or escaped from; their size rendered them majestic, their distance
mysterious, their color attractive. They did not pass into confused or inferior decorations;
neither were they adorned with any evidences of skill or science, such as might withdraw the
attention from their subjects. They were before the eyes of the devotee at every interval of
his worship; vast shadowings forth of scenes to whose realization he looked forward, or of
spirits whose presence he invoked. And the man must be little capable of receiving a religious
impression of any kind, who, to this day, does not acknowledge some feeling of awe, as he looks
up at the pale countenances and ghastly forms which haunt the dark roofs of the Baptisteries
of Parma and Florence, or remains altogether untouched by the majesty of the colossal images
of apostles, and of Him who sent apostles, that look down from the darkening gold of the domes
of Venice and Pisa.

SECTION LXIV. I shall, in a future portion of this work, endeavor to discover what probabilities
there are of our being able to use this kind of art in modern churches; but at present it remains
for us to follow out the connection of the subjects represented in St. Mark's so as to fulfil
our immediate object, and form an adequate conception of the feelings of its builders, and
of its uses to those for whom it was built.

Now, there is one circumstance to which I must, in the outset, direct the reader's special
attention, as forming a notable distinction between ancient and modern days. Our eyes are now
familiar and weaned with writing; and if an inscription is put upon a building, unless it be
large and clear, it is ten to one whether we ever trouble ourselves to decipher it. But the
old architect was sure of readers. He knew that every one would be glad to decipher all that
he wrote; that they would rejoice in possessing the vaulted leaves of his stone manuscript;
and that the more he gave them, the more grateful would the people be. We must take some pains,
therefore, when we enter St. Mark's, to read all that is inscribed, or we shall not penetrate
into the feeling either of the builder or of his times.

SECTION LXV. A large atrium or portico is attached to two sides of the church, a space which
was especially reserved for unbaptized persons and new converts. It was thought right that,
before their baptism, these persons should be led to contemplate the great facts of the Old
Testament history; the history of the Fall of Man, and of the lives of Patriarchs up to the
period of the Covenant by Moses: the order of the subjects in this series being very nearly
the same as in many Northern churches, but significantly closing with the Fall of the Manna,
in order to mark to the catechumen the insufficiency of the Mosaic covenant for salvation,--"Our
fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead,"--and to turn his thoughts to the true
Bread of which the manna was the type.

SECTION LXVI. Then, when after his baptism he was permitted to enter the church, over its main
entrance he saw, on looking back, a mosaic of Christ enthroned, with the Virgin on one side
and St. Mark on the other, in attitudes of adoration. Christ is represented as holding a book
open upon his knee, on which is written: "I AM THE DOOR; BY ME IF ANY MAN ENTER IN, HE SHALL
BE SAVED." On the red marble moulding which surrounds the mosaic is written: "I AM THE GATE
OF LIFE; LET THOSE WHO ARE MINE, ENTER BY ME." Above, on the red marble fillet which forms
the cornice of the west end of the church, is written, with reference to the figure of Christ
below: "WHO HE WAS, AND FROM WHOM HE CAME, AND AT WHAT PRICE HE REDEEMED THEE, AND WHY HE MADE
THEE, AND GAVE THEE ALL THINGS, DO THOU CONSIDER."

Now observe, this was not to be seen and read only by the catechumen when he first entered
the church; every one who at any time entered, was supposed to look back and to read this writing;
their daily entrance into the church was thus made a daily memorial of their first entrance
into the spiritual Church; and we shall find that the rest of the book which was opened for
them upon its walls continually led them in the same manner to regard the visible temple as
in every part a type of the invisible Church of God.

SECTION LXVII. Therefore the mosaic of the first dome, which is over the head of the spectator
as soon as he has entered by the great door (that door being the type of baptism), represents
the effusion of the Holy Spirit, as the first consequence and seal of the entrance into the
Church of God. In the centre of the cupola is the Dove, enthroned in the Greek manner, as the
Lamb is enthroned, when the Divinity of the Second and Third Persons is to be insisted upon
together with their peculiar offices. From the central symbol of the Holy Spirit twelve streams
of fire descend upon the heads of the twelve apostles, who are represented standing around
the dome; and below them, between the windows which are pierced in its walls, are represented,
by groups of two figures for each separate people, the various nations who heard the apostles
speak, at Pentecost, every man in his own tongue. Finally, on the vaults, at the four angles
which support the cupola, are pictured four angels, each bearing a tablet upon the end of a
rod in his hand: on each of the tablets of the three first angels is inscribed the word "Holy;"
on that of the fourth is written "Lord;" and the beginning of the hymn being thus put into
the mouths of the four angels, the words of it are continued around the border of the dome,
uniting praise to God for the gift of the Spirit, with welcome to the redeemed soul received
into His Church:

    "HOLY, HOLY, HOLY, LORD GOD OF SABAOTH:
       HEAVEN AND EARTH ARE FULL OF THY GLORY.
         HOSANNA IN THE HIGHEST:
  BLESSED IS HE THAT COMETH IN THE NAME OF THE LORD."

And observe in this writing that the convert is required to regard the outpouring of the Holy
Spirit especially as a work of sanctification. It is the holiness of God manifested in the
giving of His Spirit to sanctify those who had become His children, which the four angels celebrate
in their ceaseless praise; and it is on account of this holiness that the heaven and earth
are said to be full of His glory.

SECTION LXVIII. After thus hearing praise rendered to God by the angels for the salvation of
the newly-entered soul, it was thought fittest that the worshipper should be led to contemplate,
in the most comprehensive forms possible, the past evidence and the future hopes of Christianity,
as summed up in three facts without assurance of which all faith is vain; namely that Christ
died, that He rose again, and that He ascended into heaven, there to prepare a place for His
elect. On the vault between the first and second cupolas are represented the crucifixion and
resurrection of Christ, with the usual series of intermediate scenes,--the treason of Judas,
the judgment of Pilate, the crowning with thorns, the descent into Hades, the visit of the
women to the sepulchre, and the apparition to Mary Magdalene. The second cupola itself, which
is the central and principal one of the church, is entirely occupied by the subject of the
Ascension. At the highest point of it Christ is represented as rising into the blue heaven,
borne up by four angels, and throned upon a rainbow, the type of reconciliation. Beneath him,
the twelve apostles are seen upon the Mount of Olives, with the Madonna, and, in the midst
of them, the two men in white apparel who appeared at the moment of the Ascension, above whom,
as uttered by them, are inscribed the words, "Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into
heaven? This Christ, the Son of God, as He is taken from you, shall so come, the arbiter of
the earth, trusted to do judgment and justice."

SECTION LXIX. Beneath the circle of the apostles, between the windows of the cupola, are represented
the Christian virtues, as sequent upon the crucifixion of the flesh, and the spiritual ascension
together with Christ. Beneath them, on the vaults which support the angles of the cupola, are
placed the four Evangelists, because on their evidence our assurance of the fact of the ascension
rests; and, finally, beneath their feet, as symbols of the sweetness and fulness of the Gospel
which they declared, are represented the four rivers of Paradise, Pison, Gihon, Tigris, and
Euphrates.

SECTION LXX. The third cupola, that over the altar, represents the witness of the Old Testament
to Christ; showing him enthroned in its centre, and surrounded by the patriarchs and prophets.
But this dome was little seen by the people; [Footnote: It is also of inferior workmanship,
and perhaps later than the rest. Vide Lord Lindsay, vol. i, p. 124, note.] their contemplation
was intended to be chiefly drawn to that of the centre of the church, and thus the mind of
the worshipper was at once fixed on the main groundwork and hope of Christianity,--"Christ
is risen," and "Christ shall come." If he had time to explore the minor lateral chapels and
cupolas, he could find in them the whole series of New Testament history, the events of the
Life of Christ, and the Apostolic miracles in their order, and finally the scenery of the Book
of Revelation; [Footnote: The old mosaics from the Revelation have perished, and have been
replaced by miserable work of the seventeenth century.] but if he only entered, as often the
common people do to this hour, snatching a few moments before beginning the labor of the day
to offer up an ejaculatory prayer, and advanced but from the main entrance as far as the altar
screen, all the splendor of the glittering nave and variegated dome, if they smote upon his
heart, as they might often, in strange contrast with his reed cabin among the shallows of the
lagoon, smote upon it only that they might proclaim the two great messages--"Christ is risen,"
and "Christ shall come." Daily, as the white cupolas rose like wreaths of sea-foam in the dawn,
while the shadowy campanile and frowning palace were still withdrawn into the night, they rose
with the Easter Voice of Triumph,--"Christ is risen;" and daily, as they looked down upon the
tumult of the people, deepening and eddying in the wide square that opened from their feet
to the sea, they uttered above them the sentence of warning,--"Christ shall come."

SECTION LXXI. And this thought may surely dispose the reader to look with some change of temper
upon the gorgeous building and wild blazonry of that shrine of St. Mark's. He now perceives
that it was in the hearts of the old Venetian people far more than a place of worship. It was
at once a type of the Redeemed Church of God, and a scroll for the written word of God. It
was to be to them, both an image of the Bride, all glorious within, her clothing of wrought
gold; and the actual Table of the Law and the Testimony, written within and without. And whether
honored as the Church or as the Bible, was it not fitting that neither the gold nor the crystal
should be spared in the adornment of it; that, as the symbol of the Bride, the building of
the wall thereof should be of jasper, [Footnote: Rev. xxi. 18.] and the foundations of it garnished
with all manner of precious stones; and that, as the channel of the World, that triumphant
utterance of the Psalmist should be true of it,--"I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies,
as much as in all riches"? And shall we not look with changed temper down the long perspective
of St. Mark's Place towards the sevenfold gates and glowing domes of its temple, when we know
with what solemn purpose the shafts of it were lifted above the pavement of the populous square?
Men met there from all countries of the earth, for traffic or for pleasure; but, above the
crowd swaying for ever to and fro in the restlessness of avarice or thirst of delight, was
seen perpetually the glory of the temple, attesting to them, whether they would hear or whether
they would forbear, that there was one treasure which the merchantmen might buy without a price,
and one delight better than all others, in the word and the statutes of God. Not in the wantonness
of wealth, not in vain ministry to the desire of the eyes or the pride of life, were those
marbles hewn into transparent strength, and those arches arrayed in the colors of the iris.
There is a message written in the dyes of them, that once was written in blood; and a sound
in the echoes of their vaults, that one day shall fill the vault of heaven,--"He shall return,
to do judgment and justice." The strength of Venice was given her, so long as she remembered
this: her destruction found her when she had forgotten this; and it found her irrevocably,
because she forgot it without excuse. Never had city a more glorious Bible. Among the nations
of the North, a rude and shadowy sculpture filled their temples with confused and hardly legible
imagery; but, for her, the skill and the treasures of the East had gilded every letter, and
illumined every page, till the Book-Temple shone from afar off like the star of the Magi. In
other cities, the meetings of the people were often in places withdrawn from religious association,
subject to violence and to change; and on the grass of the dangerous rampart, and in the dust
of the troubled street, there were deeds done and counsels taken, which, if we cannot justify,
we may sometimes forgive. But the sins of Venice, whether in her palace or in her piazza, were
done with the Bible at her right hand. The walls on which its testimony was written were separated
but by a few inches of marble from those which guarded the secrets of her councils, or confined
the victims of her policy. And when in her last hours she threw off all shame and all restraint,
and the great square of the city became filled with the madness of the whole earth, be it remembered
how much her sin was greater, because it was done in the face of the House of God, burning
with the letters of His Law. Mountebank and masker laughed their laugh, and went their way;
and a silence has followed them, not unforetold; for amidst them all, through century after
century of gathering vanity and festering guilt, that white dome of St. Mark's had uttered
in the dead ear of Venice, "Know thou, that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment."

CHAPTER V.

THE DUCAL PALACE.

SECTION I. It was stated in the commencement of the preceding chapter that the Gothic art of
Venice was separated by the building of the Ducal Palace into two distinct periods; and that
in all the domestic edifices which were raised for half a century after its completion, their
characteristic and chiefly effective portions were more or less directly copied from it. The
fact is, that the Ducal Palace was the great work of Venice at this period, itself the principal
effort of her imagination, employing her best architects in its masonry, and her best painters
in its decoration, for a long series of years; and we must receive it as a remarkable testimony
to the influence which it possessed over the minds of those who saw it in its progress, that,
while in the other cities of Italy every palace and church was rising in some original and
daily more daring form, the majesty of this single building was able to give pause to the Gothic
imagination in its full career; stayed the restlessness of innovation in an instant, and forbade
the powers which had created it thenceforth to exert themselves in new directions, or endeavor
to summon an image more attractive.

SECTION II. The reader will hardly believe that while the architectural invention of the Venetians
was thus lost, Narcissus-like, in self-contemplation, the various accounts of the progress
of the building thus admired and beloved are so confused as frequently to leave it doubtful
to what portion of the palace they refer; and that there is actually, at the time being, a
dispute between the best Venetian antiquaries, whether the main facade of the palace be of
the fourteenth or fifteenth century. The determination of this question is of course necessary
before we proceed to draw any conclusions from the style of the work; and it cannot be determined
without a careful review of the entire history of the palace, and of all the documents relating
to it. I trust that this review may not be found tedious,--assuredly it will not be fruitless,--bringing
many facts before us, singularly illustrative of the Venetian character.

SECTION III. Before, however, the reader can enter upon any inquiry into the history of this
building, it is necessary that he should be thoroughly familiar with the arrangement and names
of its principal parts, as it at present stands; otherwise he cannot comprehend so much as
a single sentence of any of the documents referring to it. I must do what I can, by the help
of a rough plan and bird's-eye view, to give him the necessary topographical knowledge:

Opposite is a rude ground plan of the buildings round St. Mark's Place; and the following references
will clearly explain their relative positions:

A. St. Mark's Place.
B. Piazzetta.
P. V. Procuratie Vecchie.
P. N. (opposite) Procuratie Nuove.
P. L. Libreria Vecchia.
I. Piazzetta de' Leoni.
T. Tower of St. Mark.
F F. Great Facade of St. Mark's Church.
M. St. Mark's. (It is so united with the Ducal Palace, that the
    separation cannot be indicated in the plan, unless all the walls had
    been marked, which would have confused the whole.)
D D D. Ducal Palace.         g s. Giant's stair.
C. Court of Ducal Palace.    J. Judgement angle.
c. Porta della Carta.        a. Fig-tree angle.
p p. Ponte della Paglia (Bridge of Straw).
S. Ponte de' Sospiri (Bridge of Sighs).
R R. Riva de' Schiavoni.

The reader will observe that the Ducal Palace is arranged somewhat in the form of a hollow
square, of which one side faces the Piazzetta, B, and another the quay called the Riva de'
Schiavoni, R R; the third is on the dark canal called the "Rio del Palazzo," and the fourth
joins the Church of St. Mark.

Of this fourth side, therefore, nothing can be seen. Of the other three sides we shall have
to speak constantly; and they will be respectively called, that towards the Piazzetta, the
"Piazzetta Facade;" that towards the Riva de' Schiavoni, the "Sea Facade;" and that towards
the Rio del Palazzo, the "Rio Facade." This Rio, or canal, is usually looked upon by the traveller
with great respect, or even horror, because it passes under the Bridge of Sighs. It is, however,
one of the principal thoroughfares of the city; and the bridge and its canal together occupy,
in the mind of a Venetian, very much the position of Fleet Street and Temple Bar in that of
a Londoner,--at least, at the time when Temple Bar was occasionally decorated with human heads.
The two buildings closely resemble each other in form.

SECTION IV. We must now proceed to obtain some rough idea of the appearance and distribution
of the palace itself; but its arrangement will be better understood by supposing ourselves
raised some hundred and fifty feet above the point in the lagoon in front of it, so as to get
a general view of the Sea Facade and Rio Facade (the latter in very steep perspective), and
to look down into its interior court. Fig. II. roughly represents such a view, omitting all
details on the roofs, in order to avoid confusion. In this drawing we have merely to notice
that, of the two bridges seen on the right, the uppermost, above the black canal, is the Bridge
of Sighs; the lower one is the Ponte della Paglia, the regular thoroughfare from quay to quay,
and, I believe, called the Bridge of Straw, because the boats which brought straw from the
mainland used to sell it at this place. The corner of the palace, rising above this bridge,
and formed by the meeting of the Sea Facade and Rio Facade, will always be called the Vine
angle, because it is decorated by a sculpture of the drunkenness of Noah. The angle opposite
will be called the Fig-tree angle, because it is decorated by a sculpture of the Fall of Man.
The long and narrow range of building, of which the roof is seen in perspective behind this
angle, is the part of the palace fronting the Piazzetta; and the angle under the pinnacle most
to the left of the two which terminate it will be called, for a reason presently to be stated,
the Judgment angle. Within the square formed by the building is seen its interior court (with
one of its wells), terminated by small and fantastic buildings of the Renaissance period, which
face the Giant's Stair, of which the extremity is seen sloping down on the left.

