The debate on Mr. HARTSHORN'S motion regarding the state of Ireland was unique of its kind
in that not a single Member representing an Irish constituency took the floor; but in spite
of that it produced more heat than light. Both the mover and the seconder (Mr. SEXTON) were
rich in denunciation of the present Government of Ireland, but poverty-stricken in suggestions
for its improvement. Lord HENRY BENTINCK seized the opportunity to make final recantation of
his Unionist principles, but in default of more practical proposals was reduced to imploring
the people of Ulster "to show some spirit of compromise;" and Lord HUGH CECIL in a despairing
moment declared that he would sooner see three-fourths of Ireland independent than the whole
of it presented with a form of Home Rule which no Irishman desired. After that one appreciated
Sir KEITH ERASER'S remark, that during four years' soldiering in Ireland he had only met one
man who understood the Irish Question, and he was an Englishman who had only been there a week!

Thursday, May 15th.--The intelligent foreigner who should try to disentangle the causes of
Egyptian unrest from the speeches delivered in both Houses this afternoon will be rather puzzled.
From Captain WEDGWOOD BENN in the Commons he would learn that it was due to the ineptitude
of the British Administration, the ill-treatment of the natives by the Army of Occupation,
and in particular the unsympathetic attitude adopted by Lord CURZON towards the Nationalist
leaders, one of whom, according to Captain BENN, "held in Egypt a position comparable with
that of Mr. Speaker here." Across the corridor at the very same moment Lord CURZON was asserting
that Egypt was enjoying extraordinary material prosperity, that the British soldiery had shown
wonderful restraint in very trying circumstances and that the Government had not the least
desire to repress Egyptian individuality (when not too exuberant, of course) or deny to natives
an ever-increasing share in the administration of their country. They would have been quite
ready to listen to ZAGHLUL and his friends if they had not begun by demanding the complete
disappearance of British rule. The intelligent foreigner will probably come to the conclusion
that Egypt is very like Ireland--except that it has no Ulster.

General SEELY gave a fairly plausible explanation of the apparently wanton destruction of new
aeroplanes that is going on at Farnborough and elsewhere. Owing to the rapid progress in aviation
they were already obsolete for military purposes before they were delivered. They are quite
unsuitable for civilian use, and are therefore being "reduced to produce"--a euphemism for
"scrapped."

Mr. SHORTT was not in his place, but the interests of the Home Department did not suffer in
the hands of the Under-Secretary. Sir HAMAR GEEENWOOD rattles out his replies with the speed
and accuracy of a machine-gun, and has a neat formula for dealing with "supplementaries": "All
these further Questions are covered by my original answer."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "But in course of time sympathetic Americans and the other
    tribes will be searching the ruins of burned-out passions
    and agonies, armed with the rewritten Badaeker or its Allied
    equivalent."--Manchester Guardian.

The re-writing seems to have begun already.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE MUSICAL RECONSTRUCTION.

(By our Special Reporter, who is also busy with the Coal Commission.)

At the three hundred and seventeenth sitting of the Musical Reconstruction Commission Mr. Justice
Bland, the President, said he felt sure he would be voicing the feelings of all present in
tendering his congratulations to Sir Leonardo Spaghetti Coyne on his elevation to the peerage
as Viscount Vermicelli of Milan, and to Mr. Gladney Jebb on receiving the honour of K.P.O.
(Knight of the Proletarian Order).

A memorandum on the economics of the Russian Ballet and the probable cost of its reorganisation
on a Marxian basis was read by Mr. Ploffskin of the Garden City Gymnosophist Guild. By a scheme
for a uniform salary for all dancers, compulsory vegetarian diet, and the exclusive use of
the balalaika, Mr. Ploffskin was of opinion that a Bolshevist Ballet might be safely organised
so as to satisfy the artistic aspirations of the proletariat and counteract the pernicious
influences of the pseudo-Ethiopian style affected by the idle rich.

Examined by Sir Edwin Edgar, O.M., Mr. Ploffskin admitted that none of the famous Russian composers
of recent years had associated themselves with the Revolutionary movement, and that the Russian
Ballet had originally been an integral part of the Imperial Opera. But he had no doubt that
on a proper proletarian basis it would function with a far more beneficent activity. He pointed
out that there was a strong facial resemblance between TROTSKY and M. PADEREWSKI, and between
LENIN and BEETHOVEN. In reply to a question from Mr. Moody MacTear, Mr. Ploffskin said that
he had been down a coal-mine in Siberia.

Sir Mark Holloway, who next occupied the witness's chair, admitted, in reply to the questions
of Sir Gladney Jebb, that, since his student days, he had seldom been engaged in manual labour
on any instrument for more than two hours a day. It was not necessary for a conductor. But
he knew of pianists who practised for six or even eight hours a day with impunity.

Sir Gladney Jebb. Do you not think that if all compositions were written in the key of C it
would materially conduce to the greatest happiness of the greatest number?--The President has
already deprecated the multiplication of hypothetical questions, which have reached a total
of more than fifteen thousand.

Viscount Vermicelli. Do you think that the unrestrained performance of Jazz-music conduces
to the moral betterment of the simian proletariat?--That seems to me to be a question which
bears on the administration of the Unnecessary Noises Act.

Are you in favour of the establishment of a Ministry for the Control of Syncopation?--No; but
I would cordially support a Bill for the Compulsory Segregation of Irresponsible Collectivists.

In reply to Mr. Moody MacTear, Sir Mark Holloway said that he had never been down a coal-mine,
but that he had a few shares in a gold-mine, which had cost him five pounds a-piece, but had
never borne any dividends and were now quoted at one-and-sixpence.

The next witness, Dame Frisca, the famous Californian singer, was subjected to a remarkably
severe examination by Mr. Moody MacTear.

Mr. Moody MacTear. Do you consider that the assumption of the title prima donna is compatible
with democratic principles?--I never assumed it; it was bestowed on me by the free suffrages
of the musical world.

Mr. MacTear. Then you admit that you possess it. Are you prepared to submit proof of your title
to the Commission?--Certainly; but it would probably mean bringing forty van-loads of press-cuttings
and cause considerable congestion of traffic.

Mr. MacTear. Is it not the case that the prima donna has been condemned by the best musical
critics as an obsolete anachronism, tending to perpetuate the abuses of the "star" system and
to foster breaches of the Decalogue and to enhance the soloist at the expense of the chorus?--I
believe that WAGNER held the view expressed in the opening part of your question, but he was
unable to get on without her, wrote a famous address to the Star of Eve, and gave the chorus
practically nothing to do in many of his operas.

Mr. MacTear. Is it not the case that the operatic tenor has been pronounced on good authority
to be not a man but a disease?--The authority was a German conductor, who was presumably speaking
of German tenors.

Mr. MacTear. Have you ever been down a coal-mine?--No; but I was presented with a diamond brooch
by the diggers of Kimberley.

       *       *       *       *       *

BAKERLOONACY.

    This is a song of the Tube--
            Let us begin it
  By cursing the furies who fight and who bite ev'ry night
            To get in it;
  The folk who see red and who tread on the dead
        And climb over the slain,
  And who step on your face in the race for a place
            In the train.

            The pack!
        The wolves who attack,
  Attempting to kill you until you
        Fall flat on your back;
  The tigers who tear at your-hair and who swear
        As they tread on your neck,
  Leaving you battered, bespattered and shattered,
        An absolute wreck.

          From these sharks,
        These mild-looking typists and clerks,
  May Heaven defend you. They'll rend you--up-end you
          (I carry the marks),
  This meek-looking, sleek-looking, weak-looking clique
        With the Bolshevist brains
  Inflamed at the thought that they ought to have caught
        Much earlier trains.

            Mourn
        For the hat that is flat
  And the collar of which you were shorn.
    Shed a tear for the dear little ear that you had
  And the bags which to rags have been torn.
  Weep for the fellow who tried but who died at your side
        As the tide swept along.
  He was a victim. They tricked him and kicked him to death,
        Though he'd done them no wrong.

        This is a Song of the Tube.
            A ballad of sorrow,
  A grey sort of lay of To-day and a greyer To-morrow;
  A dismal, abysmal, chaotic, neurotic Creation
  Of one who was done after running a mile
            To the station.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

From a report of the Coal Commission:--

    "The next witness was Lord Dynevor. He said he had 8,270 acres
    of coal land in Carmarthenshire. His interest in the estate
    came to the family through one of three collieresses."

Even Mr. SMILLIE would admit that that ought to constitute an absolute title.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE IMPENDING APOLOGIES.

From a bookseller's advertisement:

    "NEW FICTION.

    Reason and Belief--By Sir Oliver Lodge.

    Man and the Universe--By Sir Oliver Lodge.

    The Great Crusade--By Right Hon. D.

    Lloyd George."--Canadian Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "It was essential for Great Britain that France should
    emerge from this war strong and able to defend herself. The
    recognition of this fact explains the change of British policy
    at Pars during the Wonference of Peace."--The Times.

We like the new title for the victors' conclave, but do not care so much for the unusual spelling
of the French capital, though it may have been adopted in deference to American prejudices.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DIAMOND-CUT-DIAMOND."

This is to warn all honest men to beware of No. 007 Field Company, R.E., known to its victims
as "Chaucer's Gang," the most conscienceless crew of body-snatchers and common thieves in all
the B.E.F.

I am myself no fastidious precisian, being in a Labour Company, but there are limits--or should
be. My own particular grouch against them started at Ripilly-sur-Somme. They, being skilled
Royal Engineers, were clearing undergrowth and putting up huts in Ripilly woods for a division
due to arrive, and my scorned rabble were unloading the huts in sections from barges at Ripilly
canal wharf and loading them on to lorries for transport to the woods. Chaucer and his Royal
Engineers were living on the spot--Ardennes waving o'er them her green leaves and so forth--and
we were in rest billets (loud roars of raucous laughter) in Ripilly village, the least sanitary
spot in the whole war zone.

Chaucer wouldn't let us stay with him in the huts--said the Chief Engineer was very keen on
men living next their work. But between Ripilly and the canal wharf was an ideal spot. The
chalk downs sloped steeply to the river, and halfway down was a bit of a level plateau just
the size for a couple of huts. South aspect; good fishing and bathing; a home from home. The
woods hid it from view above and the roadside poplars from below. It was a truly desirable
building site.

We had a hurdle-maker in our company, so I gave him a brace of light-duty men as apprentices
and they built a little hut of wattle and daub. It had a nice rural appearance and was warm,
but it leaked in wet weather, and the more I thought of Chaucer lying dry under his felt roofs
the worse I felt about it. So I had a chat with my sergeant at the wharf, and the long and
short of it was that two walls and one roof got delivered by mistake at the desirable building-site.

We worked late that night, and next day had thirty men in residence, with one end of the long
hut partitioned off for Simmonds, my subaltern, and myself.

So far so good. I began to think about making another mistake and getting a second hut, but
that evening Chaucer came sliding down over the steep turf, visibly annoyed.

"Where did you get this hut?"

"Found it."

"On Ripilly wharf?"

"Certainly not. I found it down there by the road and had it brought up here for safety. If
a lorry had run over it in the dark--"

"Ah, cut it out," he said. "The hut is mine. I found two odd sections in the last barge-load.
Any poacher who knew his job would burn the feathers when he cooked the bird. You needn't start
to explain about your fool N.C.O., who made a mistake. I keep that sort of N.C.O. myself. If
I get an official inquiry about this hut I shall send back official information."

"Right-o! Then come in and have a drink, and don't be official before you need."

That's where I was wrong. I tried to enlist the blighter's sympathy. Showed him round camp,
the view, the bathing--everything. When Simmonds came up from the river with a string of roach
Chaucer admitted it was a truly bon billet.

Next day he called again with one of his subalterns, a creature called Gubson, who went down
to the river to watch Simmonds fish. When he had gone Chaucer told me he had a spare hut.

"Not one of these divisional huts, but a thing we knocked up ourselves. We've nearly finished
our job here, and if it's any use to you you can have it. But mind you, I know nothing about
this other hut you've got here. If you're caught with that one your blood be on your own head."

"You're a Christian," I told him, and, Gubson and Simmonds returning, the conference had a
drink and adjourned.

Next day I found quite a squad of light-duty men, and sent 'em to dismantle and bring down
Chaucer's hut. I admit they rather exceeded instructions, for they brought a lot of things
that Chaucer had omitted to mention. However, they said he was there when they took them, so
I supposed it was all right. Besides the hut they had two bell-tents, a big tarpaulin, some
corrugated iron and expanded metal, some home-made chairs and tables, a water-tank and a field
kitchen, with its wheels broken off--a noble lot of loot it was. They worked like beavers bringing
it down and getting it in place, and when Chaucer drifted down again at the end of the week
all my men were housed there as snug as you please. Finally Gubson presented the camp with
a punt he had salved in Sailly village--and there we were, all the pleasures of the Riviera
and none of the disreputable company.

We were so pleased with all they had done for us that we suggested they should stay the night
and celebrate the occasion. Chaucer said he would be delighted, if we would send to his batman
and tell him to bring down his razor and toothbrush. At midnight, when the batman arrived,
Chaucer said it was time for bed. And could we give his man a shake-down, please? It was pretty
dark, he said, and the fool might lose his way home.

That should have warned me. Chaucer wasn't the man to keep a batman who was a fool.

It must have been about 3 A.M. when I was waked by my man helping Chaucer dress.

"What's the matter?"

"Your fellow says my man's ill."

"What is it?"

"I dunno, Sir," my man said. "'E 's groanin' an' rollin' about an' keepin' all us others awake."

When I got to the men's hut I found Chaucer kneeling beside the sick man, who was holding his
head and groaning. All the other men were sitting up and looking on. After a minute or two
Chaucer got up and beckoned me outside.

"Look here," he said, "I don't want to scare you, but suppose that chap's got anything infectious.
Is there a doctor handy?

"Nowhere nearer than Sailly."

"Well, Gubson tells me they were expecting the M.O. at our camp today. He may have stayed the
night. Can you send somebody up to see?"

I sent off an orderly at once, and in half-an-hour a young doctor arrived, and ordered all
the other men out of the hut. Then he pulled a gaudy handkerchief out of his pocket, sprinkled
it with some stuff out of a small phial, tied it over his mouth and only then began to fiddle
about the sick man, feeling his pulse and sounding him.

Then he got up, readjusted his handkerchief-respirator and mumbled that it was cerebro-spinal-something.
Spotted fever.

We all got out of that hut in double-quick time, believe me. The doctor was full of orders--half
a hundred things to do at once. The man must be strictly isolated. All the contacts--every
blessed man who had been in the hut with him--must be placed under supervision. The hut must
be put out of bounds. And when he found half the men had gone under the tarpaulin shelter he
put that out of bounds too.

We were a full hour trying to separate the contacts; but when the doctor found the cook getting
breakfast ready and heard he had been in the sick man's hut he threw his hand in.

"I won't answer for a single one of you," he said; "the place is no better than a pest-house.
Throw that breakfast away. It's sheer poison. Clear out, all of you."

It was Chaucer started the panic. I saw him sneaking away up the slope, so I thought it better
to make a move too. I didn't ask the doctor where we were to go; he'd have had us all sleeping
out on the open grass for a week if I had. So the whole lot of us, half asleep, trekked back
to Ripilly village and turned into our old billets again.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was my Sergeant-Major who told me next day that Chaucer and his gang had taken possession
of the Riviera--my Riviera. I went there at once, to find out what it all meant, but they had
a sentry at the foot of the slope, who said the camp was infected and no one was allowed there;
so I climbed the slopes and looked down from above. Chaucer was smoking outside my pet hut
talking to a couple of his subalterns, and a string of men was lined up beside the field kitchen
for tea. Close by, the batman, recovered from his illness, was putting a fishing-rod together,
and one of the subalterns blew his nose on a gaudy handkerchief which I recognised at once.

I went straight back and told the Town Major of Ripilly that one of the new divisional huts
was being occupied by the Sappers. It wasn't cricket, but it was all I could do.

"That's all right," he said. "Chaucer's acting as divisional R.E. He's entitled to one hut.
He told me he had been arranging for you to erect it for him."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR PESSIMISTS.

    "Applications are invited from properly qualified persons for
    the position of Medical Officer of Health....

    The appointment will be from the 1st July, 1919, for the
    duration of the War."--Advt. in Local Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Chicks, day old; ready Saturday."--Advt. in Local Paper.

It looks like a case of counting before they are hatched.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KEY TO FAIRYLAND.

  The trees have magic doorways
    Down into Fairy-land,
  Yet nobody, but only me,
    Has time to understand
  That if we knew the magic,
    If we could work it too,
  We could creep down to Fairy-town
    And do as fairies do.

  The keys are four-leaved clovers;
    They're not so hard to get--
  Just creep about and search them out,
    And don't mind getting wet;
  But oh! I wish the fairies
    Weren't quite so secrety;
  I've tried and tried, but still they hide
    The key-holes for each key.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM GRAVE TO GAY.

    "The Burial Board resolved that tenders be obtained from the
    various bands in the district with a view to holding concerts
    in the Queen's Gardens during the summer months."

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"CYRANO" MOVES TO DRURY LANE.

SIR THOMAS BEECHAM, having been translated to another place, has made way for Cyrano and his
nose, which now finds more room to turn round in. I had not seen Mr. LORAINE on the more congested
stage of the Garrick. Indeed the last time that I assisted at M. ROSTAND'S play was some twenty
years ago in the South of France. It happened that there had recently been a vogue of Musketeer
plays in England. Behind my seat was a British Baronet (a recent creation) for whom the French
language had little or no meaning. The first and only sign of intelligence that he showed was
well on in the performance, at the words, "Qui est ce monsieur?" "C'est D'Artagnan." (D'Artagnan
then disappears altogether).

"Another of these damned Musketeer plays," said the Bart.; "I'm off!" And he went.

I am not sure that, even in English, it would have been just the play for his taste; but that
London has plenty of people who can appreciate it may be seen by the way in which Mr. LORAINE
can hold the great auditorium under the spell of its romance. Without an effort he endears
to us the defects of his hero's Quixotic qualities, and makes his very deformity contribute
to the triumph of his heroic panache. Even such of the poet's prolixities as survive a very
careful pruning of the text are made to seem essential to the self-expression of character.

Mr. LORAINE is happy in his book, for the clever rendering made by Miss GLADYS THOMAS and Miss
MARY GUILLEMARD reproduces both the spirit and the letter of the poem. And from his cast he
gets all the support that he needs. True, he needs very little. He fills the stage, and the
other characters--notably the colourless Christian de Neuvillette--are little more than his
foils. Miss STELLA CAMPBELL, as Roxane, failed, at times, to convey a sense of overwhelming
passion either for the body of Christian or the soul which she imagined it to contain; but
she was always a gracious figure and her voice was gentle. Perhaps Mr. LORAINE owed most to
his scenic artists, Messrs. DULAC and JOHN BULL, who gave of their best. There was attraction
too in the very names of Arras and Bapaume, as well as in the thought of the part that our
Cyrano of to-day has played against a ruder foe than the Spaniard. And was I wrong in tracing
a hint of other experiences gained at the front, when Mr. LORAINE nearly turned up his false
nose at the mention of "military wit."

The part offers little scope for humour. Cyrano, with all his generous impulses, is too self-conscious
for that. But in each of his moods and phases--bravado, sacrifice, acceptance of the inexorable
pathos of things--Mr. LORAINE had got at the heart of the man. A very brave and inspiring performance.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW HISTORY IS WRITTEN.

From reports of Mr. ASQUITH'S speech at Newcastle:--

    "He [Lord French] has taken an unusual, and I think an
    unfortunate, course (cheers), giving to the world at this
    stage what must be an ex parte narrative of what happened
    under his command."--Times.

"He has taken an unusual, and as I take it, an unfortunate course in giving to the world what
must of necessity be an expert narrative of what happened under his command."--Daily Herald.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "BEAUTY IN HOUSE BUILDING.

    LET US LOOK AS THOUGH WE HAD WON THE WAR."--Daily Mirror.

Who said we hadn't?

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DAY.

At last the great day has arrived; in less than half an hour I shall be at the church. Heavens!
what excitement. And yet I suppose most girls have had to undergo the ordeal, if one may so
describe it, at some period of their life.

The magic church is not far distant and from my room I can hear the merry pealing of the bells.
In the garden the birds are singing as they have never sung before. Truly life is a beautiful
poem on such a day as this.

But I have really little time to dwell on these things, for am I not the centre of creation
itself, the hub around which the whole household revolves in one wild bewildering whirl of
ecstasy? How can one think when one is surrounded by a triumphant mother, a couple of adoring
and not envious sisters, a critical brother and a doting father?

But then why should I think? Why use my brain at all when all the thinking that needs to be
thought is being thought for me? Goodness, how my poor head reels. If only I could sleep. Ah,
yes, that is what I could almost wish for at this moment--sweet, soothing, refreshing sleep.

But it is not to be; the house is just a great tearing pandemonium of joy. Hark! What's that?
A motor horn? Yes, yes, a taxi is at the gate. Now another has glided forward and waits expectantly
for the central figure--myself.

"Well, darling," murmurs my father, "it's high time we were off. Wouldn't do to be late today,
you know." And he laughs proudly.

Can I describe the journey to the church? I can, but I will spare you. Enough to say that I
carry myself with dignity. Whether I do so in the vast solemn atmosphere of the church I am
unable to say, though I will confess to a feeling almost of awe.

In deep silence we move down the aisle. The service begins. Can I repeat it? I fear not. But
one passage there is which stands out prominently from the rest. It is in the form of a demand
made by the clergyman. Looking steadily at my father, he exclaims:--

    "Name this child."

I am roused to a fresh interest, and with fast-beating heart I await my father's answer. It
comes as a bombshell to my sensitive ears:--

    "Armisticia Beatty Zeebrugge!"

And I believed that only Germans could wage war on helpless babes.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

Books dealing with life at the Front have naturally somewhat slackened in volume of late. Perhaps
this accounts for some part of my interest in Pushed and the Return Push (BLACKWOOD). But more
must be put down to the lure of the subject, and most of all to the admirable way in which
the writer, who chooses to be known as "QUEX," has dealt with it. Briefly, the book is a record
of the two great sensational movements of 1918, and of the writer's experiences as an officer
of an Artillery Brigade in the retreat forced upon the Fifth Army by the break through of the
Germans on March 21st, and subsequently in the return push which broke the Hindenburg Lino
and ended the War. The publishers say that this is the only account yet written by a participator
in these happenings; I hardly think that any will appear more vivid and moving. The amazing
sequence of the events with which it deals gives to the book the thrill of arranged drama,
in which disaster is balanced by the triumphant ending. However unskilfully told, such a history
could hardly fail of its effect; by good fortune, however, it finds in "QUEX" a chronicler
able to do it justice. Simply and without apparent effort he conveys the suspense of the days
before the attack (a couple of chapters here are as breathlessly exciting as anything that
I have yet read in the literature of the War), the long trial of the retreat, and finally the
retaliation and the ever-quickening rush forward from victory to victory that makes last autumn
seem like an age of miracles. It is essentially a soldier's story, at times technical, throughout
filled with the unflurried all-in-the-day's-work philosophy that upheld our armies in every
change of fortune. For many reasons a volume that should find its place in any collection of
the smaller histories of the Great War.

       *       *       *       *       *

Until I had very nearly reached the end of The Cormorant (MELROSE) I could not, though I tried,
make up my mind as to which of three possible claimants was filling the title-role. When I
did discover the "Cormorant's" identity with a fourth person quite unsuspected, I found myself
just a little inclined to wonder whether perhaps the authoress had not had the mystification
of her readers as her real aim when she chose her title, and merely introduced a pleasant American,
who called people names with a sincerity few of us would dare to imitate, in order to justify
her choice. But all the same I am not going to tell her secret here, for I feel that much will
be added to the interest of a very pleasant book if readers will pause long enough at the end
of chapter sixteen to try to "spot" the "Cormorant" and--as I hope and believe--guess wrong.
Miss ANN (or ANNE, for her publishers seem to be in two minds about it) WEAVER has compounded
her tale from the somewhat ordinary ingredients of a heroine, as aggressively red-haired as
only red-haired heroines can be; a philandering but finally faithful hero; a worthless but
charming married man, and a number of less important people, many of whom are well drawn, though
I think that I have met that scheming and malicious French maid before. The Cormorant's lines
are chiefly laid in country houses of the more delightful sort and the story is well told.
When Miss WEAVER invents a more distinguished plot she should do something very good indeed.

       *       *       *       *       *

