'This troy-weight,' said the commissioners, 'appeared to us to be the ancient weight of this
kingdom, having existed in the same state from the time of Edward the Confessor.' 'We were
induced, moreover,' said they, 'to preserve the troy-weight, because all the coinage has been
uniformly regulated by it, and all medical prescriptions and formulæ have always been estimated
by troy-weight, under a peculiar subdivision which the college of physicians have expressed
themselves most anxious to preserve.' It was resolved, therefore, to continue the use of troy-weight
for drugs, bullion, &c. and to raise the avoirdupois on its basis. The commissioners went on
to say: 'The avoirdupois pound, by which all heavy goods have been for a long time weighed,
seems not to have been preserved with such scrupulous accuracy as the troy, by which more precious
articles have been weighed;' but it was so nearly equivalent to 7000 grains troy, that they
determined this should be its standard for the future. Measures of capacity were to be based
upon this weight, and not, as heretofore, on cubic inches. Ten lbs. avoirdupois of distilled
water weighed in air at the temperature of 62 degrees Fahrenheit, and the barometer at 30 inches,
were henceforth to determine the imperial gallon, to the utter abolition of three distinct
gallons for wine, ale, and corn, based respectively on the specific bulk and gravity of Bordeaux
wine, English ale, and grains of wheat. All other measures were to be taken in parts or multiples
of the said imperial standard gallon, according to the proportions hitherto in use. A great
reform in this connection, was the obligation of dealers to sell most solid commodities--as
coal, bread, potatoes, &c.--by weight and not by measure, which had been liable to great abuses.
Corn, however, was not included in this provision; nor has even the use of the imperial bushel
been universally enforced where it interfered with the long-established usages of corporate bodies.

To carry thus far into effect these newly-established measures, required no common exercise
of authority. Every dealer, wholesale or retail, was obliged to have his weights verified and
stamped. The brewer was compelled to get new casks; the retailer new pots and pints; the farmer
new bushels, and, consequently, new corn-sacks. The expense thus incurred was enormous, and
the grumbling was of course in due proportion.

It is believed that the units above mentioned--the yard, the pound avoirdupois, and the imperial
gallon--cannot now be superseded by any other. It remains to shew, as Mr Taylor has very satisfactorily
done,[1] how that which has been well begun may be followed out and completed by the establishment
of more complete uniformity, and the legalisation of decimal gradations for facilitating calculation.

The two co-existing pounds originally adjusted in relation to the specific gravities of wheat
and spring-water, are now the sole remains and representatives of a fanciful theory spun in
the middle ages; and the first question that occurs is, whether the pound troy, having served
its purpose, might not be done away with, and the pound avoirdupois ascertained by reference
to a cubic inch of distilled water. We were told forty years ago, that for the introduction
of a uniform and scientific system, we must wait for the spread of education in the community;
and we feel somewhat ashamed now to find that the members of the medical profession, which
is understood to be one of the most highly-educated bodies, offer the most formidable opposition
to reformation in this respect. 'The testimony, however,' says Mr Taylor, 'of many individuals
of the medical profession, especially the younger portion, and certainly that of the retailers
and dispensers of drugs, tends entirely to shew the practicability of a beneficial and convenient
change. With all these, there appears no more serious difficulty to encounter than that involved
in altered editions of their usual dispensatories, or books of reference'--an amount of trouble
and expense, we should say, not greater, certainly, in proportion to the position of the parties
concerned, than that which was forced on the poor chandlers and milkwomen by the act of 1826.

Then, to adapt the avoirdupois pound to the further objects in view, it must be reconstructed
as to its divisional parts. In order to this, it is not necessary that the nomenclature should
be changed, or that our poor people should be puzzled with the decas, and hexas, and millias
which has formed the greatest practical difficulty in the decimal system of France. It is proposed
simply to divide the pound avoirdupois into 10,000 parts instead of 7000, and to employ names
at present in use for the minor denominations; but if it be thought incongruous to retain the
term grain, which had reference to the weight of wheat or barley, minim might be substituted.
Then the multiples of the pound, which have hitherto been so various, are to be decimally graduated--as,
stones of 10 lbs., cwts. of 10 stone (or, literally, 100 lbs.), and tons of 10 cwt. The decimal
measures below the gallon would correspond of course with the weights, as it is decided by
the act, that a gallon is to contain ten pounds of water. The measures above gallons, it is
proposed to call firkins and butts.

It is taken for granted that quarts and pints, as well as half-pounds and quarter-pounds, would
still be continued in use. In France, the government was obliged to relax its decimal principles
in favour of permitting a partial return to the binary mode of subdivision. Mr Adams, who is
high authority on such a point, avers that such divisions are 'as necessary to the practical
use of weights and measures, as the decimal divisions are convenient for calculations resulting
from them.' If this be admitted, almost the only change to retailers of ordinary commodities
would be the introduction of the new ounce weight, altered to the tenth of a pound, with price
in correspondence; and perhaps the fluid pound, or tenth of a gallon. If, however, the latter
were likely to be generally used by the masses, it would be desirable that it should bear a
more familiar name. But probably it would be little known, except as the highest denomination
generally used by the apothecary; in which case the nomenclature would be all the better for
expressing the value of the measure scientifically in relation to distilled water, as is now
usually done by this class.

It is easy to shew the practical advantages that would result in mercantile calculations if
such a scale were adopted, and especially in connection with the decimal system of money advocated
in a former number of this Journal.[2] If a parcel of goods weighs 13 cwt., 7 stone, 8 lbs.,
and it be desired to know how many pounds it contains, it is unnecessary to change a single
figure to shew that there are 1378; an additional cipher gives the number of ounces (137,80);
another the number of drachms (137,800), instead of requiring the present tedious process of
reduction. Again: if any commodity costs, for instance, 2 fl. 3 cents per lb., we know without
taking up a pen that it is 2 cents 3 mil. per ounce; that it is L.2, 3 fl. per stone; L.23
per cwt.; L.230 per ton; and so on. Here is a cargo--no matter of what--weighing 374 tons,
7 cwt. 4 st. If the value is, for instance, L.2, 3s. per ton, we have but to multiply the figures
37474 by 23, and point the amount thus--L.861.9.0.2. If, however, the price be L.2, 3s. per
cwt., the point after the pounds, which is the only essential one, must be removed a step further
to the right--thus, L.8619.0.2; and if L.2, 3s. per stone, it will be L.86190.2. Let any one
try the difference between these operations and similar calculations according to our present
system, and he will confess it is no mean advantage that the advocates of decimal gradations
are seeking to obtain for the community.

We are happy to add, that since our article on Decimal Coinage appeared, we have received numerous
communications on the subject; and while there are minor differences of opinion as to the details,
there appears to be perfect unanimity as to the desirableness of the system, and the possibility
of bringing it into general use.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The Decimal System. By Henry Taylor. London: Groombridge & Sons.

[2] See No. 428.

THE LITTLE GRAY GOSSIP.

Soon after Cousin Con's marriage, we were invited to stay for a few weeks with the newly-married
couple, during the festive winter season; so away we went with merry hearts, the clear frosty
air and pleasant prospect before us invigorating our spirits, as we took our places inside
the good old mail-coach, which passed through the town of P----, where Cousin Con resided,
for there were no railways then. Never was there a kinder or more genial soul than Cousin Con;
and David Danvers, the goodman, as she laughingly called him, was, if possible, kinder and
more genial still. They were surrounded by substantial comforts, and delighted to see their
friends in a sociable, easy way, and to make them snug and cosy, our arrival being the signal
for a succession of such convivialities. Very mirthful and enjoyable were these evenings, for
Con's presence always shed radiant sunshine, and David's honest broad face beamed upon her
with affectionate pride. During the days of their courtship at our house, they had perhaps
indulged in billing and cooing a little too freely when in company with others, for sober middle-aged
lovers like themselves; thereby lying open to animadversions from prim spinsters, who wondered
that Miss Constance and Mr Danvers made themselves so ridiculous. But now all this nonsense
had sobered down, and nothing could be detected beyond a sly glance, or a squeeze of the hand
now and then; yet we often quizzed them about by-gones, and declared that engaged pairs were
insufferable--we could always find them out among a hundred!

'I'll bet you anything you like,' cried Cousin Con, with a good-humoured laugh, 'that among
our guests coming this evening' (there was to be a tea-junketing), 'you'll not be able to point
out the engaged couple--for there will be only one such present--though plenty of lads and
lasses that would like to be so happily situated! But the couple I allude to are real turtledoves,
and yet I defy you to find them out!'

'Done, Cousin Con!' we exclaimed; 'and what shall we wager?'

'Gloves! gloves to be sure!' cried David. 'Ladies always wager gloves; though I can tell you,
my Con is on the safe side now;' and David rubbed his hands, delighted with the joke; and we
already, in perspective, beheld our glove-box enriched with half-a-dozen pair of snowy French
sevens!

