In the co-ordinate origin and gradual differentiation of Poetry, Music, and Dancing, we have
another series of illustrations. Rhythm in words, rhythm in sounds, and rhythm in motions,
were in the beginning parts of the same thing, and have only in process of time become separate
things. Among existing barbarous tribes we find them still united. The dances of savages are
accompanied by some kind of monotonous chant, the clapping of hands, the striking of rude instruments:
there are measured movements, measured words, and measured tones. The early records of historic
races similarly show these three forms of metrical action united in religious festivals. In
the Hebrew writings we read that the triumphal ode composed by Moses on the defeat of the Egyptians,
was sung to an accompaniment of dancing and timbrels. The Israelites danced and sung "at the
inauguration of the golden calf. And as it is generally agreed that this representation of
the Deity was borrowed from the mysteries of Apis, it is probable that the dancing was copied
from that of the Egyptians on those occasions." Again, in Greece the like relation is everywhere
seen: the original type being there, as probably in other cases, a simultaneous chanting and
mimetic representation of the life and adventures of the hero or the god. The Spartan dances
were accompanied by hymns and songs; and in general the Greeks had "no festivals or religious
assemblies but what were accompanied with songs and dances"--both of them being forms of worship
used before altars. Among the Romans, too, there were sacred dances: the Salian and Lupercalian
being named as of that kind. And even in Christian countries, as at Limoges, in comparatively
recent times, the people have danced in the choir in honour of a saint. The incipient separation
of these once-united arts from each other and from religion, was early visible in Greece. Probably
diverging from dances partly religious, partly warlike, as the Corybantian, came the war-dances
proper, of which there were various kinds. Meanwhile Music and Poetry, though still united,
came to have an existence separate from Dancing. The primitive Greek poems, religious in subject,
were not recited but chanted; and though at first the chant of the poet was accompanied by
the dance of the chorus, it ultimately grew into independence. Later still, when the poem had
been differentiated into epic and lyric--when it became the custom to sing the lyric and recite
the epic--poetry proper was born. As during the same period musical instruments were being
multiplied, we may presume that music came to have an existence apart from words. And both
of them were beginning to assume other forms besides the religious. Facts having like implications
might be cited from the histories of later times and peoples; as the practices of our own early
minstrels, who sang to the harp heroic narratives versified by themselves to music of their
own composition: thus uniting the now separate offices of poet, composer, vocalist, and instrumentalist.
But, without further illustration, the common origin and gradual differentiation of Dancing,
Poetry, and Music will be sufficiently manifest.

The advance from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous is displayed not only in the separation
of these arts from each other and from religion, but also in the multiplied differentiations
which each of them afterwards undergoes. Not to dwell upon the numberless kinds of dancing
that have, in course of time, come into use: and not to occupy space in detailing the progress
of poetry, as seen in the development of the various forms of metre, of rhyme, and of general
organization; let us confine our attention to music as a type of the group. As implied by the
customs of still extant barbarous races, the first musical instruments were, without doubt,
percussive--sticks, calabashes, tom-toms--and were used simply to mark the time of the dance;
and in this constant repetition of the same sound, we see music in its most homogeneous form.
The Egyptians had a lyre with three strings. The early lyre of the Greeks had four, constituting
their tetrachord. In course of some centuries lyres of seven and eight strings were employed;
and, by the expiration of a thousand years, they had advanced to their "great system" of the
double octave. Through all which changes there of course arose a greater heterogeneity of melody.
Simultaneously there came into use the different modes--Dorian, Ionian, Phrygian, Æolian, and
Lydian--answering to our keys; and of these there were ultimately fifteen. As yet, however,
there was but little heterogeneity in the time of their music. Instrumental music being at
first merely the accompaniment of vocal music, and vocal music being subordinated to words,--the
singer being also the poet, chanting his own compositions and making the lengths of his notes
agree with the feet of his verses,--there resulted a tiresome uniformity of measure, which,
as Dr. Burney says, "no resources of melody could disguise." Lacking the complex rhythm obtained
by our equal bars and unequal notes, the only rhythm was that produced by the quantity of the
syllables, and was of necessity comparatively monotonous. And further, it maybe observed that
the chant thus resulting, being like recitative, was much less clearly differentiated from
ordinary speech than is our modern song. Nevertheless, in virtue of the extended range of notes
in use, the variety of modes, the occasional variations of time consequent on changes of metre,
and the multiplication of instruments, music had, towards the close of Greek civilization,
attained to considerable heterogeneity--not indeed as compared with our music, but as compared
with that which preceded it. Still, there existed nothing but melody: harmony was unknown.
It was not until Christian church-music had reached some development, that music in parts was
evolved; and then it came into existence through a very unobtrusive differentiation. Difficult
as it may be to conceive a priori how the advance from melody to harmony could take place without
a sudden leap, it is none the less true that it did so. The circumstance which prepared the
way for it was the employment of two choirs singing alternately the same air. Afterwards it
became the practice--very possibly first suggested by a mistake--for the second choir to commence
before the first had ceased; thus producing a fugue. With the simple airs then in use, a partially-harmonious
fugue might not improbably thus result: and a very partially-harmonious fugue satisfied the
ears of that age, as we know from still preserved examples. The idea having once been given,
the composing of airs productive of fugal harmony would naturally grow up, as in some way it
did grow up, out of this alternate choir-singing. And from the fugue to concerted music of
two, three, four, and more parts, the transition was easy. Without pointing out in detail the
increasing complexity that resulted from introducing notes of various lengths, from the multiplication
of keys, from the use of accidentals, from varieties of time, and so forth, it needs but to
contrast music as it is, with music as it was, to see how immense is the increase of heterogeneity.
We see this if, looking at music in its ensemble, we enumerate its many different genera and
species--if we consider the divisions into vocal, instrumental, and mixed; and their subdivisions
into music for different voices and different instruments--if we observe the many forms of
sacred music, from the simple hymn, the chant, the canon, motet, anthem, &c., up to the oratorio;
and the still more numerous forms of secular music, from the ballad up to the serenata, from
the instrumental solo up to the symphony. Again, the same truth is seen on comparing any one
sample of aboriginal music with a sample of modern music--even an ordinary song for the piano;
which we find to be relatively very heterogeneous, not only in respect of the variety in the
pitches and in the lengths of the notes, the number of different notes sounding at the same
instant in company with the voice, and the variations of strength with which they are sounded
and sung, but in respect of the changes of key, the changes of time, the changes of timbre
of the voice, and the many other modifications of expression. While between the old monotonous
dance-chant and a grand opera of our own day, with its endless orchestral complexities and
vocal combinations, the contrast in heterogeneity is so extreme that it seems scarcely credible
that the one should have been the ancestor of the other.

Were they needed, many further illustrations might be cited. Going back to the early time when
the deeds of the god-king were recorded in picture-writings on the walls of temples and palaces,
and so constituted a rude literature, we might trace the development of Literature through
phases in which, as in the Hebrew Scriptures, it presents in one work theology, cosmogony,
history, biography, law, ethics, poetry; down to its present heterogeneous development, in
which its separated divisions and subdivisions are so numerous and varied as to defy complete
classification. Or we might trace out the evolution of Science; beginning with the era in which
it was not yet differentiated from Art, and was, in union with Art, the handmaid of Religion;
passing through the era in which the sciences were so few and rudimentary, as to be simultaneously
cultivated by the same men; and ending with the era in which the genera and species are so
numerous that few can enumerate them, and no one can adequately grasp even one genus. Or we
might do the like with Architecture, with the Drama, with Dress. But doubtless the reader is
already weary of illustrations; and our promise has been amply fulfilled. Abundant proof has
been given that the law of organic development formulated by von Baer, is the law of all development.
The advance from the simple to the complex, through a process of successive differentiations,
is seen alike in the earliest changes of the Universe to which we can reason our way back,
and in the earliest changes which we can inductively establish; it is seen in the geologic
and climatic evolution of the Earth; it is seen in the unfolding of every single organism on
its surface, and in the multiplication of kinds of organisms; it is seen in the evolution of
Humanity, whether contemplated in the civilized individual, or in the aggregate of races; it
is seen in the evolution of Society in respect alike of its political, its religious, and its
economical organization; and it is seen in the evolution of all those endless concrete and
abstract products of human activity which constitute the environment of our daily life. From
the remotest past which Science can fathom, up to the novelties of yesterday, that in which
progress essentially consists, is the transformation of the homogeneous into the heterogeneous.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now, must not this uniformity of procedure be a consequence of some fundamental necessity?
May we not rationally seek for some all-pervading principle which determines this all-pervading
process of things? Does not the universality of the law imply a universal cause?

