He apologises to a lady in a letter referring to another controversy upon the same subject
in which he had used rather strong language about masculine 'superiority.' 'When a beast is
stirred up,' he says, 'he roars rather too loud,' and 'this particular beast loves and honours
and worships women more than he can express, and owes most of the happiness of his life to
them.' By 'superior' he only meant 'stronger'; and he only urges a 'division of labour,' and
a correspondence between laws and facts. This was, I think, strictly true, and applies to other
parts of his book. Partly from pugnacity and partly from contempt of sentimentalism, he manages
to put the harsher side of his opinions in front. This appears as we approach the ultimate
base of his theory.

I have spoken more than once of Fitzjames's respect for Hobbes. For Hobbes's theory of sovereignty,
and even its application by the ultramontane De Maistre, had always an attraction for him.
Hobbes, with his logical thoroughness, seems to carry the foundations of policy down to the
solid rock-bed of fact. Life is a battle; it is the conflict of independent atoms; with differing
aims and interests. The strongest, in one way or other, will always rule. But the conflict
may be decided peacefully. You may show your cards instead of playing out the game; and peace
may be finally established though only by the recognition of a supreme authority. The one question
is what is to be the supreme authority? With De Maistre it was the Church; with Fitzjames as
with Hobbes it was the State. The welfare of the race can only be secured by order; order only
by the recognition of a sovereign; and when that order, and the discipline which it implies,
are established, force does not cease to exist: on the contrary, it is enormously increased
in efficacy; but it works regularly and is distributed harmoniously and systematically instead
of appearing in the chaotic clashing of countless discordant fragments. The argument, which
is as clear as Euclid in the case of marriage, is valid universally. Society must be indissoluble;
and to be indissoluble must recognise a single ultimate authority in all disputes. Peace and
order mean subordination and discipline, and the only liberty possible is the liberty which
presupposes such 'coercion.' The theory becomes harsh if by 'coercion' we mean simply 'physical
force' or the fear of pain. A doctrine which made the hangman the ultimate source of all authority
would certainly show brutality. But nothing could be farther from Fitzjames's intention than
to sanction such a theory. His 'coercion' really includes an appeal to all the motives which
make peace and order preferable to war and anarchy. But it is, I also think, a defect in the
book that he does not clearly explain the phrase, and that it slips almost unconsciously into
the harsher sense. He tells us, for example, that 'force is dependent upon persuasion and cannot
move without it.'[148] Nobody can rule without persuading his fellows to place their force
at his disposal; and therefore he infers 'persuasion is a kind of force.' It acts by showing
people the consequences of their conduct. He calls controversy, again, an 'intellectual warfare,'
which, he adds, is far more searching and effective than legal persecution. It roots out the
weaker opinion. And so, when speaking of the part played by coercion in religious developments,
he says that 'the sources of religion lie hid from us. All that we know is that now and again
in the course of ages someone sets to music the tune which is haunting millions of ears. It
is caught up here and there, and repeated till the chorus is thundered out by a body of singers
able to drown all discords, and to force the unmusical mass to listen to them.'[149] The word
'force' in the last sentence shows the transition. Undoubtedly force in the sense of physical
and military force has had a great influence in the formation both of religions and nations.
We may say that such force is 'essential'; as a proof of the energy and often as a condition
of the durability of the institutions. But the question remains whether it is a cause or an
effect; and whether the ultimate roots of success do not lie in that 'kind of force' which
is called 'persuasion'; and to which nobody can object. If coercion be taken to include enlightenment,
persuasion, appeals to sympathy and sentiment, and to imagination, it implies an ultimate social
groundwork very different from that generally suggested by the word. The utilitarian and individualist
point of view tends necessarily to lay stress upon bare force acting by fear and physical pain.
The utilitarian 'sanctions' of law must be the hangman and the gaoler. So long as society includes
unsocial elements it must apply motives applicable to the most brutal. The hangman uses an
argument which everyone can understand. In this sense, therefore, force must be the ultimate
sanction, though it is equally true that to get the force you must appeal to motives very different
from those wielded by the executioner. The application of this analogy of criminal law to questions
of morality and religion affects the final conclusions of the book.

Fitzjames's whole position, if I have rightly interpreted him, depends essentially upon his
moral convictions. The fault which he finds with Mill is precisely that Mill's theory would
unmoralise the state. The state, that is, would be a mere association for mutual insurance
against injury instead of an organ of the moral sense of the community. What, then, is morality?
How are we to know what is right and wrong, and what are our motives for approving and disapproving
the good and the bad? Fitzjames uses phrases, especially in his letters, where he is not arguing
against an adversary, which appear to be inconsistent, if not with utilitarianism, at least
with the morality of mere expediency. Lord Lytton, some time after this, wrote to him about
his book, and he replies to the question, 'What is a good man?'--'a man so constituted that
the pleasure of doing a noble thing and the pain of doing a base thing are to him the greatest
of pleasures and pains.' He was fond, too, of quoting, with admiration, Kant's famous saying
about the sublimity of the moral law and the starry heavens. The doctrine of the 'categorical
imperative' would express his feelings more accurately than Bentham's formulæ. But his reasoning
was different. He declares himself to be a utilitarian in the sense that, according to him,
morality must be built upon experience. 'The rightness of an action,' he concludes, 'depends
ultimately upon the conclusions at which men may arrive as to matters of fact.'[150] This,
again, means that the criterion is the effect of conduct upon happiness. Here, however, we
have the old difficulty that the estimate of happiness varies widely. Fitzjames accepts this
view to some extent. Happiness has no one definite meaning, although he admits, in point of
fact, there is sufficient resemblance between men to enable them to form such morality as actually
exists.

But is such morality satisfactory? Can it, for example, give sufficient reasons for self-sacrifice--that
is, neglect of my own happiness? Self-sacrifice, he replies, in a strict sense, is impossible;
for it could only mean acting in opposition to our own motives of whatever kind--which is an
absurdity.[151] But among real motives he admits benevolence, public spirit, and so forth,
and fully agrees that they are constantly strong enough to overpower purely self-regarding
motives. So far, it follows, the action of such motives may be legitimately assumed by utilitarians.
He is, therefore, not an 'egoistic' utilitarian. He thinks, as he says in a letter referring
to his book, that he is 'as humane and public-spirited as his neighbours.' A man must be a
wretched being who does not care more for many things outside his household than for his own
immediate pains and pleasures. Had he been called upon to risk health or life for any public
object in India, and failed to respond, he would never have had a moment's peace afterwards.
This was no more than the truth, and yet he would sometimes call himself 'selfish' in what
I hold to be a non-natural sense. He frequently complains of the use of such words as 'selfishness'
and 'altruism' at all. Selfishness, according to him, could merely mean that a man acts from
his own motives, and altruism would mean that he acted from somebody else's motives. One phrase,
therefore, would be superfluous, and the other absurd. He insists, however, that, as he puts
it, 'self is each man's centre, from which he can no more displace himself than he can leap
off his own shadow.'[152] Since estimates of happiness differ, the morality based upon them
will also differ.[153] And from selfishness in this sense two things follow. First, I have
to act upon my own individual conception of morality.

If, then, I meet a person whose morality is different from mine, and who justifies what I hold
to be vices, I must behave according to my own view. If I am his ruler, I must not treat him
as a person making a possibly useful experiment in living, but as a vicious brute, to be restrained
or suppressed by all available means. And secondly, since self is the centre, since a 'man
works from himself outwards,' it is idle to propose a love of humanity as the guiding motive
to morality. 'Humanity is only "I" writ large, and zeal for humanity generally means zeal for
My Notions as to what men should be and how they should live.'[154]

This, therefore, leads to the ultimate question: What, in the utilitarian phrase, is the 'sanction'
of morality? Here his answer is, on one side at least, emphatic and unequivocal. Mill and the
positivists, according to him,[155] propose an utterly unsatisfactory motive for morality.
The love of 'humanity' is the love of a mere shadowy abstraction. We can love our family and
our neighbours; we cannot really care much about the distant relations whom we shall never
see. Nay, he holds that a love of humanity is often a mask for a dislike of concrete human
beings. He accuses Mill of having at once too high and too low an opinion of mankind.[156]
Mill, he thinks, had too low an estimate of the actual average Englishman, and too high an
estimate of the ideal man who would be perfectly good when all restraints were removed. He
excused himself for contempt of his fellows by professing love for an abstraction. To set up
the love of 'humanity,' in fact, as a governing principle is not only impracticable, but often
mischievous. A man does more good, as a rule, by working for himself and his family, than by
acting like a 'moral Don Quixote,[157] who is capable of making love for men in general the
ground of all sorts of violence against men in particular.' Indeed, there are many men whom
we ought not to love. It is hypocrisy to pretend to love the thoroughly vicious. 'I do not
love such people, but hate them,' says Fitzjames; and I do not want to make them happy, because
I could only do so by 'pampering their vices.'[158]

Here, therefore, he reaches the point at which his utilitarian and his Puritanical prepossessions
coincide. All law, says the utilitarian, implies 'sanctions'--motives equally operative upon
all members of society; and, as the last resort, so far as criminal law is concerned, the sanction
of physical suffering. What is the corresponding element in the moral law? To this, says Fitzjames,
no positivist can give a fair answer. He has no reply to anyone who says boldly, 'I am bad
and selfish, and I mean to be bad and selfish.'[159] The positivists can only reply, 'Our tastes
differ.' The great religions have answered differently. We all know the Christian answer, and
'even the Buddhists had, after a time, to set up a hell.' The reason is simple. You can never
persuade the mass of men till you can threaten them. Religions which cannot threaten the selfish
have no power at all; and till the positivists can threaten, they will remain a mere 'Ritualistic
Social Science Association.' Briefly, the utilitarian asks, What is the sanction of morality?
And the Puritan gives the answer, Hell. Here, then, apparently, we have the keystone of the
arch. What is the good of government in general? To maintain the law? And what is the end of
the law? To maintain morality. And why should we maintain morality? To escape hell. This, according
to some of his critics, was Fitzjames's own conclusion. It represents, perhaps in a coarse
form, an argument which Fitzjames was never tired of putting since the days when he worked
out the theory of hell at school.

It would, however, be the grossest injustice to him if I left it to be supposed for a moment
that he accepted this version of his doctrine. He repudiated it emphatically; and, in fact,
he modifies the doctrine so much that the real question is, whether he does not deprive it
of all force. No one was more sensible of the moral objections to the hell of popular belief.
He thought that it represented the Creator as a cruel and arbitrary tyrant, whose vengeance
was to be evaded by legal fictions. Still, the absolute necessity of some 'sanction' of a spiritual
kind seemed clear to him. Without it, every religion would fall to pieces, as every system
of government would be dissolved without 'coercion.' And this is the final conclusion of his
book in chapters with which he was, as I find from his letters, not altogether satisfied. He
explains in the preface to his second edition that the question was too wide for complete treatment
in the limits. Briefly the doctrine seems to be this. The Utilitarian or Positivist can frame
a kind of commonplace morality, which is good as far as it goes. It includes benevolence and
sympathy; but hardly gets beyond ordering men to love their friends and hate their enemies.
To raise morality to a higher strain, to justify what it generally called self-sacrifice, to
make men capable of elevated action, they require something more. That something is the belief
in God and a future world. 'I entirely agree,' he says, 'with the commonplaces about the importance
of these doctrines.'[160] 'If they be mere dreams life is a much poorer and pettier thing,
and mere physical comfort far more important than has hitherto been supposed. Morality, he
says, depends on religion. If it be asked whether we ought to rise beyond the average utilitarian
morality, he replies, 'Yes, if there is a God and a future state. No, if there is no God and
no future state.'[161] And what is to be said of those doctrines, the ultimate foundation,
if not of an average morality, yet of all morality above the current commonplaces? Here we
have substantially the religious theory upon which I have already dwelt. He illustrates it
here by quotations from Mill, who admits the 'thread of consciousness' to be an ultimate inexplicability,
and by a passage from Carlyle, 'the greatest poet of the age,' setting forth the mystery of
the 'Me.' He believes in a Being who, though not purely benevolent, has so arranged the universe,
that virtue is the law prescribed to his creatures. The law is stern and inflexible, and excites
a feeling less of love than of 'awful respect.' The facts of life are the same upon any theory;
but atheism makes the case utterly hopeless. A belief in God is inextricably connected with
a belief in morality, and if one decays the other will decay with it. Still it is idle to deny
that the doctrines are insusceptible of proof. 'Faith says, I will, though I am not sure; Doubt
says, I will not, because I am not sure; but they both agree in not being sure.'[162] He utterly
repudiates all the attempts made by Newman and others to get out of the dilemma by some logical
device for transmuting a mere estimate of probabilities into a conclusion of demonstrable certitude.
We cannot get beyond probabilities. But we have to make a choice and to make it at our peril.
We are on a pass, blinded by mist and whirling snow. Above all let us dream no dreams and tell
no lies, but go our way, wherever we may land, with our eyes open and our heads erect. If death
ends all, we cannot meet it better. If not, let us enter the next scene with no sophistry in
our mouths and no masks on our faces.'[163]

A conclusion of this kind could commend itself neither to the dogmatist who maintains the certainty
of his theories, nor to the sceptic who regards them as both meaningless and useless. I have
dwelt upon them so long because they seem to me to represent a substantially logical and coherent
view which commended itself to a man of very powerful intellect, and which may be presumed
to represent much that other people hold less distinctly. The creed of a strong man, expressed
with absolute sincerity, is always as interesting as it is rare; and the presumption is that
it contains truths which would require to be incorporated in a wider system. At any rate it
represents the man; and I have therefore tried to expound it as clearly as I could. I may take
it for granted in such references as I shall have to make in the following pages to my brother's
judgment of the particular events in which he took part. Mill himself said, according to Professor
Bain,[164] that Fitzjames 'did not know what he was arguing against, and was more likely to
repel than to attract.' The last remark, as Professor Bain adds, was the truest. Mill died
soon afterwards and made no reply, if he ever intended to reply. The book was sharply criticised
from the positivist point of view by Mr. Harrison, and from Mill's point of view by Mr. John
Morley in the 'Fortnightly Review' (June and August 1873). Fitzjames replied to them in a preface
to a second edition in 1874. He complains of some misunderstandings; but on the whole it was
a fair fight, which he did not regret and which left no ill-feeling.

III. DUNDEE ELECTION

The last letter of the series had hardly appeared in the 'Pall Mall Gazette,' when Fitzjames
received an application to stand for Liverpool in the Liberal interest. He would be elected
without expense to himself. He thought, as he observes, that he should find parliamentary life
'a nuisance'; but a seat in the House might of course further both his professional prospects
and his schemes of codification. He consulted Coleridge, who informed him that, if Government
remained in office, a codification Commission would be appointed. Coleridge was also of opinion
that, in that event, Fitzjames's claims to a seat on the Commission would be irresistible.
As, however, it was intended that the Commissioners should be selected from men outside Parliament
and independent of political parties, Fitzjames would be disqualified by an election for Liverpool.
Upon this he at once declined to stand. A place in a codification Commission would, he said,
'suit him better than anything else in the world.' Coleridge incidentally made the remark,
which seems to be pretty obvious, that the authorship of the letters upon 'Liberty, Equality,
Fraternity' would be a rather awkward burthen for a Liberal candidate to carry.

For some time Fitzjames might hope, though he hoped with trembling, that something would come
of his various codifying projects. It was reported that Mr. Bruce (Lord Aberdare) would introduce
the Homicide Bill during Russell Gurney's absence. Coleridge was able after many delays to
introduce the Evidence Bill. But it was crowded out of sight by more exciting measures, and
it was only upon its final withdrawal on the last day of the session (August 5, 1873) that
he could say a few words about it.[165] The Bill was apparently ordered to be printed, but
never became public. It went to the parliamentary limbo with many of its brethren.

In the session of 1873 the Government was beginning to totter. The ministerial crisis of March,
upon the defeat of the Irish University Bill, was followed by Mr. Gladstone's resignation.
He returned to office, but had to attend to questions very different from codification. 'My
castle of cards has all come down with a run,' writes Fitzjames (March 14, 1873); 'Gladstone
is out of office; Coleridge is going out; my Evidence Act and all my other schemes have blown
up--and here am I, a briefless, or nearly briefless, barrister, beginning the world all over
again.... I have some reason to think that, if Gladstone had stayed in, I should, in a few
weeks, have been Solicitor-General, and on my way to all sorts of honour and glory.' However,
he comforts himself with various proverbs. His favourite saying on these occasions, which were
only too common, was 'Patience, and shuffle the cards.' The Gladstone Ministry, however, was
patched up, and things looked better presently. 'I am,' he says in May, 'in the queerest nondescript
position--something between Solicitor-General and Mr. Briefless--with occasional spurts of
business' which look promising, but in frequency resemble angelic visits. On June 27 he announces,
however, that a whole heap of briefs 'has come in, and, to crown all, a solemn letter came
yesterday from the Lord Chancellor, offering to appoint me to act as circuit judge in the place
of Lush, who stays in town to try that lump of iniquity, the Claimant.' He was, accordingly,
soon at the Winchester Assizes, making a serious experiment in the art of judging, and finding
the position thoroughly congenial. He is delighted with everything, including Chief Baron Kelly,
a 'very pleasant, chatty old fellow,' who had been called to the bar fifty years before, and
was still bright and efficient. Fitzjames's duties exactly suit him. They require close attention,
without excessive labour. He could judge for nine hours a day all the year round without fatigue.
He gets up at 5.30, and so secures two or three hours, 'reading his books with a quiet mind.'
Then there is the pleasure of choosing the right side, instead of having to take a side chosen
by others; while 'the constant little effort to keep counsel in order, and to keep them also
in good humour, and to see that all things go straight and well, is to me perfectly exquisite.'
His practice in journalism has enabled him to take notes of the evidence rapidly, without delaying
the witnesses; and he is conscious of doing the thing well and giving satisfaction. The leader
of the circuit pays him 'a most earnest compliment,' declaring that the 'whole bar are unanimous
in thinking the work done as well as possible. This,' he says, 'made me very happy, for I know,
from knowing the men and the bar, it is just the case in which one cannot suspect flattery.
If there are independent critics in this world, it is British barristers.' Briefly, it is a
delicious 'Pisgah sight of Palestine.' If, in Indian phrase, he could only become 'pucka' instead
of 'kucha'--a permanent instead of temporary judge--he would prefer it to anything in the world.
He feels less anxious, and declares that he has 'not written a single article this week'; though
he manages when work is slack, to find time for a little writing, such as the chapter in Hunter's
'Life of Lord Mayo.'

