THE IRISH RACE IN THE PAST AND THE PRESENT

by Rev. Aug. J. Thebaud, S.J.

PREFACE

COUNT JOSEPH DE MAISTRE, in his "Principe Generateur des Constitutions Politiques" (Par. LXI.),
says: "All nations manifest a particular  and distinctive character, which deserves to be attentively
considered."

This thought of the great Catholic writer requires some development.

It is not by a succession of periods of progress and decay only That nations manifest their
life and individuality. Taking any one of them at any period of its existence, and comparing
it with others, peculiarities immediately show themselves which give it a  particular physiognomy
whereby it may be at once distinguished  from any other; so that, in those agglomerations of
men which we call nations or races, we see the variety everywhere observable in Nature, the
variety by which God manifests the infinite activity of his creative power.

When we take two extreme types of the human species--the Ashantee of Guinea, for instance,
and any individual of one of the great civilized communities of Europe-the phenomenon of which
we speak strikes us at once. But it may be remarked also, in comparing  nations which have
lived for ages in contiguity, and held constant  intercourse one with the other from the time
they began their  national life, whose only boundary-line has been a mountain-chain or the
banks of a broad river. They have each striking peculiarities which individualize and stamp
them with a character of their own.

How different are the peoples divided by the Rhine or by the  Pyrenees! How unlike those which
the Straits of Dover run between! And in Asia, what have the conterminous Chinese and Hindoos
in common beyond the general characteristics of the human species which belong to all the children
of Adam?

But what we must chiefly insist upon in the investigation we are Now undertaking is, that the
life of each is manifested by a special physiognomy deeply imprinted in their whole history,
which we here call character. What each of them is their history shows; and there is no better
means of judging of them than by reviewing the various events which compose their life.

For the various events which go to form what is called the history of a nation are its individual
actions, the spontaneous energy of its life; and, as a man shows what he is by his acts, so
does a nation or a race by the facts of its history.

When we compare the vast despotisms of Asia, crystallized into forms which have scarcely changed
since the first settlement of man in those immense plains, with the active and ever-moving
smaller groups of Europeans settled in the west of the Old World since the dispersion of mankind,
we see at a glance how the  characters of both may be read in their respective annals. And,
coming down gradually to less extreme cases, we recognize the same phenomenon manifested even
in contiguous tribes, springing long ago, perhaps, from the same stock, but which have been
formed into distinct nations by distinct ancestors, although they acknowledge a common origin.
The antagonism in their character is immediately brought out by what historians or annalists
have to say of them.

Are not the cruelty and rapacity of the old Scandinavian race Still visible in their descendants?
And the spirit of organization displayed by them from the beginning in the seizure, survey,
and distribution of land--in the building of cities and castles--in the wise speculations of
an extensive commerce--may not all these characteristics be read everywhere in the annals of
the nations sprung from that original stock, grouped thousands of years ago around the Baltic
and the Northern Seas?

How different appear the pastoral and agricultural tribes which have, for the same length of
time, inhabited the Swiss valleys and mountains! With a multitude of usages, differing all,
more or less, from each other; with, perhaps, a wretched administration of  internal affairs;
with frequent complaints of individuals, and partial conflicts among the rulers of those small
communities--with all these defects, their simple and ever-uniform chronicles reveal to us
at once the simplicity and peaceful disposition of their  character; and, looking at them through
the long ages of an obscure life, we at once recognize the cause of their general happiness
in their constant want of ambition.

And if, in the course of centuries, the character of a nation has changed--an event which seldom
takes place, and when it does is  due always to radical causes--its history will immediately
make known to us the cause of the change, and point out unmistakably its origin and source.

Why is it, for instance, that the French nation, after having lived for near a thousand years
under a single dynasty, cannot now find a government agreeable to its modern aspirations? It
is insufficient to ascribe the fact to the fickleness of the French temper. During ten centuries
no European nation has been more uniform and more attached to its government. If to-day the
case is altogether reversed, the fact cannot be explained except by a radical change in the
character of the nation. Firmly fixed by its own national determination of purpose and by the
deep studies of the Middle  Ages--nowhere more remarkable than in Paris, which was at that
time the centre of the activity of Catholic Europe--the French mind, first thrown by Protestantism
into the vortex of controversy, gradually declined to the consideration of mere philosophical
utopias, until, rejecting at last its long-received convictions, it abandoned itself to the
ever-shifting delusions of opinions and theories, which led finally to skepticism and unbelief
in every branch of knowledge, even the most necessary to the happiness of any community of
men. Other causes, no doubt, might also be assigned for the remarkable change now under our
consideration. The one we have pointed out was the chief.

To the same causes, acting now on a larger scale throughout Europe, we ascribe the same radical
changes which we see taking place in the various nations composing it: every thing brought
everywhere in question; the mind of all unsettled; a real anarchy of intellect spreading wider
and wider even in countries which until now had stood firm against it. Hence constant revolutions
unheard of hitherto; nothing stable; and men expecting with awe a more  frightful and radical
overturning still of every thing that makes life valuable and dear.

Are not these tragic convulsions the black and spotted types wherein we read the altered character
of modern nations; are they not the natural expression of their fitful and delirious life?

These considerations, which might be indefinitely prolonged, show the truth of the phrase of
Joseph de Maistre that "all nations manifest a particular and distinctive character, which
deserves to be attentively considered."

The fact is, in this kind of study is contained the only possible philosophy of history for
modern times.

With respect to ages that have passed away, to nations which have run their full course, a
nobler study is possible--the more so because inspired writers have traced the way. Thus Bossuet
wrote his celebrated "Discours." But he stopped wisely at the coming of our Lord. As to the
events anterior to that great epoch, he spoke often like a prophet of ancient times; he seemed
at times to be initiated in the designs of God himself. And, in truth, he had them traced by
the very Spirit of God; and, lifted by his elevated mind to the level of those sublime thoughts,
he had only to touch them with the magic of his style.

But of subsequent times he did not speak, except to rehearse the well-known facts of modern
history, whose secret is not yet revealed, because their development is still being worked
out, and no conclusion has been reached which might furnish the key to the whole.

There remains, therefore, but one thing to do: to consider each nation apart, and read its
character in its history. Should this be done for all, the only practical philosophy of modern
history would be written. For then we should have accomplished morally for men what, in the
physical order, zoologists accomplish for the immense number of living beings which God has
spread over the surface of the earth. They might be classified according to a certain order
of the ascending or descending moral scale. We could judge them rightly, conformably with the
standard of right or wrong, which is in the absolute possession of the Christian conscience.
Brilliant but baneful qualities would no longer impose on the credulity of mankind, and men
would not be led astray in their judgments by the rule of expediency or success which generally
dictates to historians the estimate they form and inculcate on their readers of the worth of
some nations, and the insignificance or even odiousness of others.

In the impossibility under which we labor of penetrating, at the present time, the real designs
of Providence with respect to the various races of men, so great an undertaking, embracing
the principal, if not all, modern races, would be one of the most  useful efforts of human
genius for the spread of truth and virtue among men.

Our purport is not of such vast import. We shall take in these pages for the object of our
study one of the smallest and, apparently, most insignificant nations of modern Europe--the
Irish. For several ages they have lost even what generally  constitutes the basis of nationality,
self-government; yet they have preserved their individuality as strongly marked as though they
were still ruled by the O'Neill dynasty.

And we may here remark that the number of a people and the size of its territory have absolutely
no bearing on the estimate which we ought to form of its character. Who would say that the
Chinese are the most interesting and commendable nation on the surface of the globe? They are
certainly the most ancient and most populous; their code of precise and formal morality is
the most exact and clear that philosophers could ever dictate,  and succeed in giving as law
to a great people. That code has been followed during a long series of ages. Most discoveries
of modern European science were known to them long before they were found out among us; agriculture,
that first of arts, which most economists consider as the great test whereby to judge of the
worth of a nation, is and always has been carried by them to a perfection unknown to us. Yet,
the smallest European nationality is, in truth, more interesting and instructive than  the
vast Celestial Empire can ever be--whose long annals are all compassed within a few hundred
pages of a frigid  narrative, void of life, and altogether void of soul.

But why do we select, among so many others, the Irish nation,  which is so little known, of
such little influence, whose history occupies only a few lines in the general annals of the
world, and whose very ownership has rested in the hands of foreigners for centuries?

We select it, first, because it is and always has been thoroughly Catholic, from the day when
it first embraced Christianity; and this, under the circumstances, we take to be the best proof,
not only of supreme good sense, but, moreover, of an elevated, even a sublime character. In
their martyrdom of three centuries, the Irish have displayed the greatness of soul of a Polycarp,
and the simplicity of an Agnes. And the Catholicity which they have always professed has been,
from the beginning, of a thorough and uncompromising character. All modern European nations,
it is true, have had their birth in the bosom of the Church. She had nursed them all, educated
them all, made them all what they were, when they began to think of emancipating themselves
from her; and the Catholic, that is, the Christian religion, in its essence, is supernatural;
the creed of the apostles, the sacramental system; the very history of Christianity, transport
man directly into a region far beyond the earth.

Wherever the Christian religion has been preached, nations have awakened to this new sense
of faith in the supernatural, and it is there they have tasted of that strong food which made
and which makes them still so superior to all other races of men. But, as we shall see, in
no country has this been the case so  thoroughly as in Ireland. Whatever may have been the
cause, the Irish were at once, and have ever since continued, thoroughly impregnated with supernatural
ideas. For several centuries after St. Patrick the island was "the Isle of Saints," a place
midway between heaven and earth, where angels and the saints of heaven came to dwell with mere
mortals. The Christian belief was adopted by them to the letter; and, if Christianity is truth,
ought it not to be so? Such a nation, then, which received such a thorough Christian education--an
education never repudiated one iota during the ages following its reception--deserves a  thorough
examination at our hands.

We select it, secondly, because the Irish have successfully  refused ever since to enter into
the various currents of European opinion, although, by position and still more by religion,
they formed a part of Europe. They have thus retained a character of their own, unlike that
of any other nation. To this day, they stand firm in their admirable stubbornness; and thus,
when Europe shall be shaken and tottering, they will still stand firm. In the words of Moore,
addressed to his own country:

"The nations have fallen and thou still art young;
  Thy sun is just rising when others are set;
And though slavery's cloud o'er thy morning hath hung,
  The full noon of freedom shall beam round thee yet."

That constant refusal of the Irish to fall in with the rapid torrent of European thought and
progress, as it is called, is the strangest phenomenon in their history, and gives them at
first an outlandish look, which many have not hesitated to call barbarism. We hope thoroughly
to vindicate their character from such a foul aspersion, and to show this phenomenon as the
secret cause of their final success, which is now all but secured; and this feature alone of
their national life adds to their character an interest which we find in no other Christian nation.

We select it, thirdly, because there is no doubt that the Irish is the most ancient nationality
of Western Europe; and although, as in the case of the Chinese, the advantage of going up to
the very cradle of mankind is not sufficient to impart interest to frigid annals, when that
prerogative is united to a vivid life and an exuberant individuality, nothing contributes more
to render a nation worthy of study than hoariness of age, and its derivation from a certain
and definite primitive stock.

It is true that, in reading the first chapters of all the various histories of Ireland, the
foreign reader is struck and almost shocked by the dogmatism of the writers, who invariably,
and with a truly Irish assurance, begin with one of the sons of Japhet, and, following the
Hebrew or Septuagint chronology, describe without flinching the various colonizations of Erin,
not omitting the synchronism of Assyrian, Persian, Greek, and Roman history. A  smile is at
first the natural consequence of such assertions; and, indeed, there is no obligation whatever
to believe that every thing happened exactly as they relate.

But when the large quartos and octavos which are now published from time to time by the students
of Irish antiquarian lore are opened, read, and pondered over, at least one consequence is
drawn from them which strikes the reader with astonishment. "There can be no doubt," every
candid mind says to itself, "that this nation has preceded in time all those which have flourished
on the earth, with the exception, perhaps, of the Chinese, and that it remains the same to-day."
At least, many years before Christ, a race of men inhabited Ireland exactly identical with
its present population (except that it did not enjoy the light of the true religion), yet very
superior to it in point of material well-being. Not a race of cannibals, as the credulous Diodorus
Siculus, on the strength of some vague tradition, was pleased to delineate; but a people acquainted
with the use of the precious metals, with the manufacture of fine tissues, fond of music and
of song, enjoying its literature and its books; often disturbed, it is true, by feuds and contentions,
but, on the whole, living happily under the patriarchal rule of the clan system.

The ruins which are now explored, the relics of antiquity which are often exhumed, the very
implements and utensils preserved by the careful hand of the antiquarian--every thing, so different
from the rude flint arrows and barbarous weapons of our North American Indians and of the European
savages of the Stone period, denotes a state of civilization, astonishing indeed, when we reflect
that real objects of art embellished the dwellings of Irishmen probably before the foundation
of Rome, and perhaps when Greece was as yet in a state of heroic barbarism.

And this high antiquity is proved by literature as well as by art. "The ancient Irish," says
one of their latest historians, M. Haverty, "attributed the utmost importance to the accuracy
of their Historic compositions for social reasons. Their whole system of society--every question
as to right of property--turned upon the descent of families and the principle of clanship;
so that it cannot be supposed that mere fables would be tolerated instead of facts, where every
social claim was to be decided on their authority. A man's name is scarcely mentioned in our
annals without the addition of his forefathers for several generations--a thing which rarely
occurs in those of other countries.

"Again, when we arrive at the era of Christianity in Ireland, we find that our ancient annals
stand the test of verification by science with a success which not only establishes their character
for truthfulness at that period, but vindicates the records of preceding dates involved in it."

The most confirmed skeptic cannot refuse to believe that at the introduction of Christianity
into Ireland, in 432, the whole island was governed by institutions exactly similar to those
of Gaul when Julius Caesar entered it 400 years before; that this state must have existed for
a long time anterior to that date; and that the reception of the new religion, with all the
circumstances which attended it, introduced the nation at once into a happy and social state,
which other European countries, at that time convulsed by barbarian invasions, did not attain
till several centuries later.

These various considerations would alone suffice to show the real importance of the study we
undertake; but a much more powerful incentive to it exists in the very nature of the annals
of the nation itself.

Ireland is a country which, during the last thousand years, has maintained a constant struggle
against three powerful enemies, and has finally conquered them all.

The first stage of the conflict was that against the Northmen. It lasted three centuries, and
ended in the almost complete  disappearance of this foe.

The second act of the great drama occupied a period of four Hundred years, during which all
the resources of the Irish clans were arrayed against Anglo-Norman feudalism, which had finally
to succumb; so that Erin remained the only spot in Europe where feudal institutions never prevailed.

The last part of this fearful trilogy was a conflict of three centuries with Protestantism;
and the final victory is no longer doubtful.

Can any other modern people offer to the meditation, and, we must say, to the admiration of
the Christian reader, a more interesting spectacle? The only European nation which can almost
compete with the constancy and never-dying energy of Ireland is the Spanish in its struggle
of seven centuries with the Moors.

We have thought, therefore, that there might be some real interest and profit to be derived
from the study of this eventful national life--an interest and a profit which will appear as
we study it  more in detail.

It may be said that the threefold conflict which we have outlined might be condensed into the
surprising fact that all efforts to drag Ireland into the current of European affairs and influence
have invariably failed. This is the key to the understanding of her whole history.

Even originally, when it formed but a small portion of the great Celtic race, here existed
in the Irish branch a peculiarity of its own, which stamped it with features easy to be distinguished.
The gross idolatry of the Gauls never prevailed among the Irish; the Bardic system was more
fully developed among them than among any other Celtic nation. Song, festivity, humor, ruled
there much more universally than elsewhere. There were among them more harpers and poets than
even genealogists and antiquarians, although the branches of study represented by these last
were certainly as well cultivated among them as among the Celts of Gaul, Spain, or Italy.

But it is chiefly after the introduction of Christianity among them, when it appeared finally
decreed that they should belong morally and socially to Europe, it is chiefly then that their
purpose, however unconscious they may have been of its tendency, seems more defined of opening
up for themselves a path of their own. And in this they followed only the promptings of Nature.

The only people in Europe which remained untouched by what is called Roman civilization--never
having seen a Roman soldier on their shores; never having been blessed by the construction
of Roman baths and amphitheatres; never having listened to the  declamations of Roman rhetoricians
and sophists, nor received the decrees of Roman praetors, nor been subject to the exactions
of the Roman fisc--they never saw among them, in halls and basilicas erected under the direction
of Roman architects, Roman judges, governors, proconsuls, enforcing the decrees of the Caesars
against the introduction or propagation of the Christian religion. Hence it entered in to them
without opposition and bloodshed.

But the new religion, far from depriving them of their characteristics, consecrated and made
them lasting. They had their primitive traditions and tastes, their patriarchal government
and manners, their ideas of true freedom and honor, reaching back almost to the cradle of mankind.
They resolved to hold these against all comers, and they have been  faithful to their resolve
down to our own times. Fourteen hundred years of history since Patrick preached to them proves
it clearly enough.

First, then, although the Germanic tribes of the first invasion, as it is called, did not reach
their shore, for the reason that the Germans, as little as the Celts, never possessed a navy--although
neither Frank, nor Vandal, nor Hun, renewed among them the horrors witnessed in Gaul, Spain,
Italy, and Africa--they could not remain safe from the Scandinavian pirates, whose vessels
scoured all the northern seas before they could enter the Mediterranean through the Straits
of Gibraltar.

The Northmen, the Danes, came and tried to establish themselves among them and inculcate their
northern manners, system, and municipal life. They succeeded in England, Holland, the north
of France, and the south of Italy; in a word, wherever the wind had driven their hide-bound
boats. The Irish was the only nation of Western Europe which beat them back, and refused to
receive the boon of their higher civilization.

As soon as the glories of the reign of Charlemagne had gone down in a sunset of splendor, the
Northmen entered unopposed all the great rivers of France and Spain. They speedily conquered
England. On all sides they ravaged the country and destroyed the population, whose only defence
consisted in prayers to Heaven, with here and there an heroic bishop or count. In Ireland alone
the Danes found to their cost that the Irish spear was thrust with a steady and firm hand;
and after two hundred years of struggle not only had they not arrived at the survey and division
of the soil, as wherever else they had set foot, but, after Clontarf, the few cities they still
occupied were compelled to pay tribute to the Irish Ard-Righ. Hence all attempts to substitute
the Scandinavian social system  for that of the Irish septs and clans were forever frustrated.
City life and maritime enterprises, together with commerce and trade, were as scornfully rejected
as the worship of Thor and Odin.

Soon after this first victory of Ireland over Northern Europe, the Anglo-Norman invasion originated
a second struggle of longer duration and mightier import. The English Strongbow replaced the
Danes with Norman freebooters, who occupied the precise spots which the new owners had reconquered
from the Northmen, and never an inch more. Then a great spectacle was offered to the world,
which has too much escaped the observation of historians, and to which we intend to draw the
attention of our readers.

The primitive, simple, patriarchal system of clanship was Confronted by the stern, young, ferocious
feudal system, which was then beginning to prevail all over Europe. The question was, Would
Ireland consent to become European as Europe was then  organizing herself? The struggle, as
we shall see, between the Irish and the English in the twelfth century and later on, was merely
a contest between the sept system and feudalism, involving, it is true, the possession of land.
And, at the end of a contest lasting four hundred years, feudalism was so thoroughly defeated
that the English of the Pale adopted the Irish manners, customs, and even language, and formed
only new septs among the old ones.

Hence Ireland escaped all the commotions produced in Europe by the consequences of the feudal
system:

I. Serfdom, which was generally substituted for slavery, never existed in Ireland, slavery
having disappeared before the entry of the Anglo-Normans.

II. The universal oppression of the lower classes, which caused the simultaneous rising of
the communes all over Europe, never having existed in Ireland, we shall not be surprised to
find no mention in Irish history of that wide-spread institution of the eleventh and following
centuries.

III. An immense advantage which Ireland derived from her isolation, on which she always insisted,
was her being altogether freed from the fearful mediaeval heresies which convulsed France particularly
for a long period, and which invariably came from the East.

For Erin remained so completely shut off from the rest of Europe, that, in spite of its ardent
Catholicism, the Crusades were never preached to its inhabitants; and, if some individual Irishman
joined the ranks of the warriors led to Palestine by Richard Coeur de Lion, the nation was
in no way affected by the good or bad results which everywhere ensued from the marching of
the Christian armies against the Moslem.

The sects which sprang from Manicheism were certainly an evil consequence of the holy wars;
and it would be a great error to think that those heresies were short-lived and affected only
for a brief space of time the social and moral state of Europe. It may be said that their fearfully
disorganizing influence lasts to this day. If modern secret societies do not, in point of fact,
derive their existence directly from the Bulgarism and Manicheism of the Middle Ages, there
is no doubt that those dark errors, which Imposed on all their adepts a stern secrecy, paved
the way for the conspiracies of our times. Hence Ireland, not having felt the effect of the
former heresies, is in our days almost free from the universal contagion now decomposing the
social fabric on all sides.

But it is chiefly in modern times that the successful resistance offered by Ireland to many
wide-spread European evils, and its strong attachment to its old customs, will evoke our wonder.

Clanship reigned still over more than four-fifths of the island when the Portuguese were conquering
a great part of India, and the Spaniards making Central and South America a province of their
almost universal monarchy.

The poets, harpers, antiquarians, genealogists, and students of Brehon law, still held full
sway over almost the whole island, when the revival of pagan learning was, we may say, convulsing
Italy, giving a new direction to the ideas of Germany, and penetrating France, Holland, and
Switzerland. Happy were the Irish to escape that brilliant but fatal invasion of mythology
and Grecian art and literature! Had they not received enough of Greek and Latin lore at the
hands of their first apostles and missionaries, and through the instrumentality of the numerous
amanuenses and miniaturists in their monasteries and convents? Those holy men had brought them
what Christian Rome had purified of the old pagan dross, and sanctified by the new Divine Spirit.

Virgin Ireland having thus remained undefiled, and never having even been agitated by all those
earlier causes of succeeding revolutions, Protestantism, the final explosion of them all, could
make no impression on her--a fact which remains to this day the brightest proof of her strength
and vigor.

But, before speaking of this last conflict, we must meet an objection which will naturally
present itself.

To steadily refuse to enter into the current of European thought, and object to submit in any
way to its influence, is, pretend many, really to reject the claims of civilization, and persist
in refusing to enter upon the path of progress. The North American savage has always been most
persistent in this stubborn opposition to civilized life, and no one has as yet considered
this a praiseworthy attribute. The more barbarous a tribe, the more firmly it adheres to its
traditions, the more pertinaciously it follows the customs of its ancestors. They are immovable,
and cannot be brought to adopt usages new to them, even when they see the immense advantages
they would reap from their adoption. Hence the greater number of writers, chiefly English,
who have treated of Irish affairs, unhesitatingly call them barbarians, precisely on account
of their stubbornness in rejecting the advances of the Anglo-Norman invaders. Sir John Davies,
the attorney-general of James I., could scarcely write a page on the subject without reverting
to this idea.

We answer that the Irish, even before their conversion to Christianity, but chiefly after,
were not barbarians; they never opposed true progress; and they became, in fact, in the sixth,
seventh, and eighth centuries, the moral and scientific educators of the greater part of Europe.
What they refused to adopt they were right in rejecting. But, as there are still many men who,
without ever having studied the question, do not hesitate, even in our days, to throw barbarism
in their teeth, and attribute to it the pitiable condition which the Irish to-day present to
the world, we add a few further considerations on this point.

First, then, we say, barbarians have no history; and the Irish certainly had a history long
before St. Patrick converted them. Until lately, it is true, the common opinion of writers
on Ireland was adverse to this assertion of ours; but, after the labors of modern antiquarians--of
such men as O'Donovan, Todd, E. O'Curry, and others--there can no longer be any doubt on the
subject. If Julius Caesar was right in stating that the Druids of Gaul confined themselves
to oral teaching--and the statement may very well be questioned, with the light of present
information on the subject--it is now proved that the Ollamhs of Erin kept written annals which
went back to a very remote age of the world. The numerous histories and chronicles written
by monks of the sixth and following centuries, the authenticity of which cannot be denied,
evidently presuppose anterior compositions dating much farther back than the introduction of
our holy religion into Ireland, which the Christian annalists had in their hands when they
wrote their books, sometimes in Latin, sometimes in old Irish, sometimes in a strange medley
of both languages. It is now known that St. Patrick brought to Ireland the Roman alphabet only,
and that it was thenceforth used not merely for the ritual of the Church, and the dissemination
of the Bible and of the works of the Holy Fathers, but likewise for the transcription, in these
newly-consecrated symbols of thought, of the old manuscripts of the island; which soon disappeared,
in the far greater number of instances at least, owing to the favor in which the Roman characters
were held by the people and their instructors the bishops and monks. Let those precious old
symbols be called Ogham, or by any other name--there must have been something of the kind.

If any one insists that such was not the case, he must of necessity admit that the oral teaching
of the Ollamhs was so perfect and so universally current in the same formulas all over the
island, that such oral teaching really took the place of writing; and in this case, also, which
is scarcely possible, however, Ireland had an authentic history. This last supposition, certainly,
can hardly be credited; and yet, if the first be rejected, it must be admitted, since it cannot
be imagined that subsequent Irish historians, numerous as they became in time, could have agreed
so well together, and remained so consistent with themselves, and so perfectly accurate in
their descriptions of places and things in  general, without anterior authentic documents of
some kind or other, on which they could rely. Any person who has merely glanced at the astonishing
production called the "Annals of the Four Masters," must necessarily be of this opinion.

In no nation in the world are there found so many old histories, annals, chronicles, etc.,
as among the Irish; and that fact alone suffices to prove that in periods most ancient they
were truly a civilized nation, since they attached such importance to the records of events
then taking place among them.

