Confused ideas of the vulgar on the subject.

A miracle in the sense of a contravention of natural laws an absurdity.

In the sense of an event, whose cause is unknown, less edifying than an event better understood.

God's providence identical with the course of nature. How Scripture miracles may be interpreted.

CHAPTER VII - Of the Interpretation of Scripture.

Current systems of interpretation erroneous.

Only true system to interpret it by itself.

Reasons why this system cannot now be carried out in its entirety.

Yet these difficulties do not interfere with our understanding the plainest and most important
passages.

Rival systems examined - that of a supernatural faculty being necessary - refuted.

That of Maimonides.

Refuted.

Traditions of the Pharisees and the Papists rejected.

CHAPTER VIII. - Of the authorship of the Pentateuch, and the other historical books of the
Old Testament.

The Pentateuch not written by Moses.

His actual writings distinct.

Traces of late authorship in the other historical books.

All the historical books the work of one man.

Probably Ezra.

Who compiled first the book of Deuteronomy.

And then a history, distinguishing the books by the names of their subjects.

CHAPTER IX. - Other questions about these books.

That these books have not been thoroughly revised and made to agree.

That there are many doubtful readings.

That the existing marginal notes are often such.

The other explanations of these notes refuted.

The hiatus.

CHAPTER X.- An Examination of the remaining books of the Old Testament according to the preceding
method.

Chronicles, Psalms, Proverbs.

Isaiah, Jeremiah.

Ezekiel, Hosea.

Other prophets, Jonah, Job.

Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther.

The author declines to undertake a similar detailed examination of the New Testament.

Author's Endnotes to the Treatise

CHAPTER VI.  -  OF MIRACLES.

(7) What pretension will not people in their folly advance!

(11) II.

(12) III.

(13) IV.

(14) Such are the principal subjects which will be discussed in this chapter, and which will
serve, I think, not a little to further the object of this treatise.

(15) Our first point is easily proved from what we showed in Chap. (24) We have hinted as much
in Chap. II., in speaking of the sun standing still in the time of Joshua, and to say on the
subject when we come to treat of the interpretation of miracles later on in this chapter. (26)
I thus proceed with the demonstration.

(31) Let us take miracle as meaning that which cannot be explained through natural causes.

(36) It is only phenomena that we clearly and distinctly understand, which heighten our knowledge
of God, and most clearly indicate His will and decrees. (46) Scripture nowhere states the doctrine
openly, but it can readily be inferred from several passages.

(50) Asaph, though he had heard of so many miracles, yet doubted of the providence of God,
and would have turned himself from the true way, if he had not at last come to understand true
blessedness. (See Ps. lxxxiii.) (51) Solomon, too, at a time when the Jewish nation was at
the height of its prosperity, suspects that all things happen by chance. (See Eccles. iii:19,
20, 21; and chap. ix:2, 3, &c.)

(52) Lastly, nearly all the prophets found it very hard to reconcile the order of nature and
human affairs with the conception they had formed of God's providence, whereas philosophers
who endeavour to understand things by clear conceptions of them, rather than by miracles, have
always found the task extremely easy - at least, such of them as place true happiness solely
in virtue and peace of mind, and who aim at obeying nature, rather than being obeyed by her.
(53) Such persons rest assured that God directs nature according to the requirements of universal
laws, not according to the requirements of the particular laws of human nature, and trial,
therefore, God's scheme comprehends, not only the human race, but the whole of nature.

(54) It is plain, then, from Scripture itself, that miracles can give no knowledge of God,
nor clearly teach us the providence of God. (55) As to the frequent statements in Scripture,
that God wrought miracles to make Himself plain to man - as in Exodus x:2, where He deceived
the Egyptians, and gave signs of Himself, that the Israelites might know that He was God,-
it does not, therefore, follow that miracles really taught this truth, but only that the Jews
held opinions which laid them easily open to conviction by miracles. (56) We have shown in
Chap. II. that the reasons assigned by the prophets, or those which are formed from revelation,
are not assigned in accordance with ideas universal and common to all, but in accordance with
the accepted doctrines, however absurd, and with the opinions of those to whom the revelation
was given, or those whom the Holy Spirit wished to convince.

(57) This we have illustrated by many Scriptural instances, and can further cite Paul, who
to the Greeks was a Greek, and to the Jews a Jew. (58) But although these miracles could convince
the Egyptians and Jews from their standpoint, they could not give a true idea and knowledge
of God, but only cause them to admit that there was a Deity more powerful than anything known
to them, and that this Deity took special care of the Jews, who had just then an unexpectedly
happy issue of all their affairs. (59) They could not teach them that God cares equally for
all, for this can be taught only by philosophy: the Jews, and all who took their knowledge
of God's providence from the dissimilarity of human conditions of life and the inequalities
of fortune, persuaded themselves that God loved the Jews above all men, though they did not
surpass their fellows in true human perfection. (63) Of these I will cite a few. (65) His "sending"
was merely the ordinary course of nature.

(68) In Psalm cv. 24 it is said that God changed the hearts of the Egyptians, so that they
hated the Israelites. (69) This was evidently a natural change, as appears from Exodus, chap.i.,
where we find no slight reason for the Egyptians reducing the Israelites to slavery.

(70) In Genesis ix:13, God tells Noah that He will set His bow in the cloud; this action of
God's is but another way of expressing the refraction and reflection which the rays of the
sun are subjected to in drops of water.

(71) In Psalm cxlvii:18, the natural action and warmth of the wind, by which hoar frost and
snow are melted, are styled the word of the Lord, and in verse 15 wind and cold are called
the commandment and word of God.

(72) In Psalm civ:4, wind and fire are called the angels and ministers of God, and various
other passages of the same sort are found in Scripture, clearly showing that the decree, commandment,
fiat, and word of God are merely expressions for the action and order of nature.

(73) Thus it is plain that all the events narrated in Scripture came to pass naturally, and
are referred directly to God because Scripture, as we have shown, does not aim at explaining
things by their natural causes, but only at narrating what appeals to the popular imagination,
and doing so in the manner best calculated to excite wonder, and consequently to impress the
minds of the masses with devotion. (74) If, therefore, events are found in the Bible which
we cannot refer to their causes, nay, which seem entirely to contradict the order of nature,
we must not come to a stand, but assuredly believe that whatever did really happen happened
naturally. (75) This view is confirmed by the fact that in the case of every miracle there
were many attendant circumstances, though these were not always related, especially where the
narrative was of a poetic character.

(76) The circumstances of the miracles clearly show, I maintain, that natural causes were needed.
(77) For instance, in order to infect the Egyptians with blains, it was necessary that Moses
should scatter ashes in the air (Exod. ix: 10); the locusts also came upon the land of Egypt
by a command of God in accordance with nature, namely, by an east wind blowing for a whole
day and night; and they departed by a very strong west wind (Exod. x:14, 19). (78) By a similar
Divine mandate the sea opened a way for the Jews (Exo. xiv:21), namely, by an east wind which
blew very strongly all night.

(79) So, too, when Elisha would revive the boy who was believed to be dead, he was obliged
to bend over him several times until the flesh of the child waxed warm, and at last he opened
his eyes (2 Kings iv:34, 35).

(80) Again, in John's Gospel (chap. ix.) certain acts are mentioned as performed by Christ
preparatory to healing the blind man, and there are numerous other instances showing that something
further than the absolute fiat of God is required for working a miracle.

(81) Wherefore we may believe that, although the circumstances attending miracles are not related
always or in full detail, yet a miracle was never performed without them.

(82) This is confirmed by Exodus xiv:27, where it is simply stated that "Moses stretched forth
his hand, and the waters of the sea returned to their strength in the morning," no mention
being made of a wind; but in the song of Moses (Exod. xv:10) we read, "Thou didst blow with
Thy wind (i.e. with a very strong wind), and the sea covered them." (83) Thus the attendant
circumstance is omitted in the history, and the miracle is thereby enhanced.

(89) There remain some points concerning the interpretation of miracles to be noted, or rather
to be recapitulated, for most of them have been already stated.

(111) In this way many occurrences in the Bible are to be regarded merely as Jewish expressions.
(121) In Ps. cxlviii:6, for instance, and Jer. xxxi:35.

(126) To these considerations we must add, that miracles require causes and attendant circumstances,
and that they follow, not from some mysterious royal power which the masses attribute to God,
but from the Divine rule and decree, that is (as we have shown from Scripture itself) from
the laws and order of nature; lastly, that miracles can be wrought even by false prophets,
as is proved from Deut. xiii. and Matt. xxiv:24. (128) This can easily be done by anyone, now
that I have set forth the rules drawn from Scripture.

(130) This is also the opinion of Josephus, for at the conclusion of the second book of his
"Antiquities," he writes: Let no man think this story incredible of the sea's dividing to save
these people, for we find it in ancient records that this hath been seen before, whether by
God's extraordinary will or by the course of nature it is indifferent. (131) The same thing
happened one time to the Macedonians, under the command of Alexander, when for want of another
passage the Pamphylian Sea divided to make them way; God's Providence making use of Alexander
at that time as His instrument for destroying the Persian Empire. (132) This is attested by
all the historians who have pretended to write the Life of that Prince. (133) But people are
at liberty to think what they please."

(134) Such are the words of Josephus, and such is his opinion on faith in miracles. II., and
in themselves surpassed human comprehension. (16) From miracles God's divinity cannot be proved,
as I have already shown, and need not now repeat, for miracles could be wrought by false prophets.

(19) Our knowledge of Scripture must then be looked for in Scripture only. (22) What I mean
by its history, and what should be the chief points elucidated, I will now explain. (24) We
shall thus be able to investigate every expression by comparison with common conversational
usages. (27) Lastly, a note of all the passages which are ambiguous or obscure, or which seem
mutually contradictory. (29) We are at work not on the truth of passages, but solely on their
meaning.

(31) I will illustrate my meaning by an example. (40) The whole knowledge of the Bible must
be sought solely from itself.

(43) All such information should, as I have said, be contained in the "history" of Scripture.
(49) But in this further arguing, also, we shall require a method very like that employed in
interpreting nature from her history. (58) Wherefore we must consider who was the speaker,
what was the occasion, and to whom were the words addressed. (64) All this is plainly in accordance
with reason.

(68) How we are to arrive at the intention of the prophets in such cases I will briefly explain.
(72) The latter may be guessed at but cannot be inferred with certainty from Scriptural premises.

(78) No one has ever been able to change the meaning of a word in ordinary use, though many
have changed the meaning of a particular sentence. (83) I will now point out its difficulties
and shortcomings, which prevent our gaining a complete and assured knowledge of the Sacred Text.

(84) Its first great difficulty consists in its requiring a thorough knowledge of the Hebrew
language. (85) Where is such knowledge to be obtained? (86) The men of old who employed the
Hebrew tongue have left none of the principles and bases of their language to posterity; we
have from them absolutely nothing in the way of dictionary, grammar, or rhetoric.

(87) Now the Hebrew nation has lost all its grace and beauty (as one would expect after the
defeats and persecutions it has gone through), and has only retained certain fragments of its
language and of a few books. (88) Nearly all the names of fruits, birds, and fishes, and many
other words have perished in the wear and tear of time. (89) Further, the meaning of many nouns
and verbs which occur in the Bible are either utterly lost, or are subjects of dispute. (90)
And not only are these gone, but we are lacking in a knowledge of Hebrew phraseology. (91)
The devouring tooth of time has destroyed turns of expression peculiar to the Hebrews, so that
we know them no more.

(92) Therefore we cannot investigate as we would all the meanings of a sentence by the uses
of the language; and there are many phrases of which the meaning is most obscure or altogether
inexplicable, though the component words are perfectly plain.

(93) To this impossibility of tracing the history of the Hebrew language must be added its
particular nature and composition: these give rise to so many ambiguities that it is impossible
to find a method which would enable us to gain a certain knowledge of all the statements in
Scripture, [Endnote 7]. (94) In addition to the sources of ambiguities common to all languages,
there are many peculiar to Hebrew. (95) These, I think, it worth while to mention.

(96) Firstly, an ambiguity often arises in the Bible from our mistaking one letter for another
similar one. (97) The Hebrews divide the letters of the alphabet into five classes, according
to the five organs of the month employed in pronouncing them, namely, the lips, the tongue,
the teeth, the palate, and the throat. (98) For instance, Alpha, Ghet, Hgain, He, are called
gutturals, and are barely distinguishable, by any sign that we know, one from the other. (99)
El, which signifies to, is often taken for hgal, which signifies above, and vice versa. (100)
Hence sentences are often rendered rather ambiguous or meaningless.

(101) A second difficulty arises from the multiplied meaning of conjunctions and adverbs. (102)
For instance, vau serves promiscuously for a particle of union or of separation, meaning, and,
but, because, however, then: ki, has seven or eight meanings, namely, wherefore, although,
if, when, inasmuch as, because, a burning, &c., and so on with almost all particles.

(103) The third very fertile source of doubt is the fact that Hebrew verbs in the indicative
mood lack the present, the past imperfect, the pluperfect, the future perfect, and other tenses
most frequently employed in other languages; in the imperative and infinitive moods they are
wanting in all except the present, and a subjunctive mood does not exist. (104) Now, although
all these defects in moods and tenses may be supplied by certain fundamental rules of the language
with ease and even elegance, the ancient writers evidently neglected such rules altogether,
and employed indifferently future for present and past, and vice versa past for future, and
also indicative for imperative and subjunctive, with the result of considerable confusion.

(105) Besides these sources of ambiguity there are two others, one very important. (106) Firstly,
there are in Hebrew no vowels; secondly, the sentences are not separated by any marks elucidating
the meaning or separating the clauses. (107) Though the want of these two has generally been
supplied by points and accents, such substitutes cannot be accepted by us, inasmuch as they
were invented and designed by men of an after age whose authority should carry no weight. (108)
The ancients wrote without points (that is, without vowels and accents), as is abundantly testified;
their descendants added what was lacking, according to their own ideas of Scriptural interpretation;
wherefore the existing accents and points are simply current interpretations, and are no more
authoritative than any other commentaries.

(109) Those who are ignorant of this fact cannot justify the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews
for interpreting (chap. xi;21) Genesis (xlvii:31) very differently from the version given in
our Hebrew text as at present pointed, as though the Apostle had been obliged to learn the
meaning of Scripture from those who added the points. (110) In my opinion the latter are clearly
wrong. (111) In order that everyone may judge for himself, and also see how the discrepancy
arose simply from the want of vowels, I will give both interpretations. (112)Those who pointed
our version read, "And Israel bent himself over, or (changing Hqain into Aleph, a similar letter)
towards, the head of the bed." (113) The author of the Epistle reads, "And Israel bent himself
over the head of his staff," substituting mate for mita, from which it only differs in respect
of vowels. (114) Now as in this narrative it is Jacob's age only that is in question, and not
his illness, which is not touched on till the next chapter, it seems more likely that the historian
intended to say that Jacob bent over the head of his staff (a thing commonly used by men of
advanced age for their support) than that he bowed himself at the head of his bed, especially
as for the former reading no substitution of letters is required. (115) In this example I have
desired not only to reconcile the passage in the Epistle with the passage in Genesis, but also
and chiefly to illustrate how little trust should be placed in the points and accents which
are found in our present Bible, and so to prove that he who would be without bias in interpreting
Scripture should hesitate about accepting them, and inquire afresh for himself. (116) Such
being the nature and structure of the Hebrew language, one may easily understand that many
difficulties are likely to arise, and that no possible method could solve all of them. (117)
It is useless to hope for a way out of our difficulties in the comparison of various parallel
passages (we have shown that the only method of discovering the true sense of a passage out
of many alternative ones is to see what are the usages of the language), for this comparison
of parallel passages can only accidentally throw light on a difficult point, seeing that the
prophets never wrote with the express object of explaining their own phrases or those of other
people, and also because we cannot infer the meaning of one prophet or apostle by the meaning
of another, unless on a purely practical question, not when the matter is speculative, or if
a miracle, or history is being narrated. (118) I might illustrate my point with instances,
for there are many inexplicable phrases in Scripture, but I would rather pass on to consider
the difficulties and imperfections of the method under discussion.

(119) A further difficulty attends the method, from the fact that it requires the history of
all that has happened to every book in the Bible; such a history we are often quite unable
to furnish. (120) Of the authors, or (if the expression be preferred), the writers of many
of the books, we are either in complete ignorance, or at any rate in doubt, as I will point
out at length. (121) Further, we do not know either the occasions or the epochs when these
books of unknown authorship were written; we cannot say into what hands they fell, nor how
the numerous varying versions originated; nor, lastly, whether there were not other versions,
now lost. (122) I have briefly shown that such knowledge is necessary, but I passed over certain
considerations which I will now draw attention to. (125) I think this must be tolerably evident
to all. (129) All these stories are obviously alike, but we judge them very differently. (130)
The first only sought to amuse, the second had a political object, the third a religious object.(131)
We gather this simply from the opinions we had previously formed of the authors.

(133) A further difficulty attends this method in the case of some of the books of Scripture,
namely, that they are no longer extant in their original language. (133) The Gospel according
to Matthew, and certainly the Epistle to the Hebrews, were written, it is thought, in Hebrew,
though they no longer exist in that form. (134) Aben Ezra affirms in his commentaries that
the book of Job was translated into Hebrew out of another language, and that its obscurity
arises from this fact. (135) I say nothing of the apocryphal books, for their authority stands
on very inferior ground. (143) Besides, I do not doubt that everyone will see that such a method
only requires the aid of natural reason.

(146) There only remains to examine the opinions of those who differ from me. (148) What is
meant by this supernatural faculty I will leave to its propounders to explain. (150) If we
look at their interpretations, they contain nothing supernatural, at least nothing but the
merest conjectures. (153) But the prophets and apostles did not preach to the faithful only,
but chiefly to the unfaithful and wicked. (155) Moses, too, would have given his laws in vain,
if they could only be comprehended by the faithful, who need no law.

(157) The opinion of Maimonides was widely different. (162) Yet two things hinder me from doing
as I have said, and believing that the world is eternal. (181) Such licence is utterly opposed
to the teaching of this and the preceding chapters, and, moreover, will be evident to everyone
as rash and excessive.

(182) But if we grant all this licence, what can it effect after all? Absolutely nothing. (186)
In conclusion, then, we dismiss Maimonides' theory as harmful, useless, and absurd. (195) Thus
in this way also, we have shown that our method of interpreting Scripture is the best.

CHAPTER VIII.  -  OF THE AUTHORSHIP OF THE PENTATEUCH AND THE OTHER HISTORICAL BOOKS OF THE
OLD TESTAMENT

(1) In the former chapter we treated of the foundations and principles of Scriptural knowledge,
and showed that it consists solely in a trustworthy history of the sacred writings; such a
history, in spite of its indispensability, the ancients neglected, or at any rate, whatever
they may have written or handed down has perished in the lapse of time, consequently the groundwork
for such an investigation is to a great extent, cut from under us. (2) This might be put up
with if succeeding generations had confined themselves within the limits of truth, and had
handed down conscientiously what few particulars they had received or discovered without any
additions from their own brains: as it is, the history of the Bible is not so much imperfect
as untrustworthy: the foundations are not only too scanty for building upon, but are also unsound.
(3) It is part of my purpose to remedy these defects, and to remove common theological prejudices.
(4) But I fear that I am attempting my task too late, for men have arrived at the pitch of
not suffering contradiction, but defending obstinately whatever they have adopted under the
name of religion. (5) So widely have these prejudices taken possession of men's minds, that
very few, comparatively speaking, will listen to reason. (6) However, I will make the attempt,
and spare no efforts, for there is no positive reason for despairing of success.

(7) In order to treat the subject methodically, I will begin with the received opinions concerning
the true authors of the sacred books, and in the first place, speak of the author of the Pentateuch,
who is almost universally supposed to have been Moses. (8) The Pharisees are so firmly convinced
of his identity, that they account as a heretic anyone who differs from them on the subject.
(9) Wherefore, Aben Ezra, a man of enlightened intelligence, and no small learning, who was
the first, so far as I know, to treat of this opinion, dared not express his meaning openly,
but confined himself to dark hints which I shall not scruple to elucidate, thus throwing, full
light on the subject.

(10) The words of Aben Ezra which occur in his commentary on Deuteronomy are as follows: "Beyond
Jordan, &c . . . If so be that thou understandest the mystery of the twelve . . .  moreover
Moses wrote the law . . .  The Canaanite was then in the land . . . . it shall be revealed
on the mount of God . . . . then also behold his bed, his iron bed, then shalt thou know the
truth." (11) In these few words he hints, and also shows that it was not Moses who wrote the
Pentateuch, but someone who lived long after him, and further, that the book which Moses wrote
was something different from any now extant.

(12) To prove this, I say, he draws attention to the facts:

(13) 1. That the preface to Deuteronomy could not have been written by Moses, inasmuch as he
ad never crossed the Jordan.

(14) II. That the whole book of Moses was written at full length on the circumference of a
single altar (Deut. xxvii, and Josh. viii:37), which altar, according to the Rabbis, consisted
of only twelve stones: therefore the book of Moses must have been of far less extent than the
Pentateuch. (15) This is what our author means, I think, by the mystery of the twelve, unless
he is referring to the twelve curses contained in the chapter of Deuteronomy above cited, which
he thought could not have been contained in the law, because Moses bade the Levites read them
after the recital of the law, and so bind the people to its observance. (16) Or again, he may
have had in his mind the last chapter of Deuteronomy which treats of the death of Moses, and
which contains twelve verses. (17) But there is no need to dwell further on these and similar
conjectures.

(18) III. That in Deut. xxxi:9, the expression occurs, "and Moses wrote the law:" words that
cannot be ascribed to Moses, but must be those of some other writer narrating the deeds and
writings of Moses.

(19) IV. That in Genesis xii:6, the historian, after narrating that Abraham journeyed through
the and of Canaan, adds, "and the Canaanite was then in the land," thus clearly excluding the
time at which he wrote. (20) So that this passage must have been written after the death of
Moses, when the Canaanites had been driven out, and no longer possessed the land.

(21) Aben Ezra, in his commentary on the passage, alludes to the difficulty as follows:- "And
the Canaanite was then in the land: it appears that Canaan, the grandson of Noah, took from
another the land which bears his name; if this be not the true meaning, there lurks some mystery
in the passage, and let him who understands it keep silence." (22) That is, if Canaan invaded
those regions, the sense will be, the Canaanite was then in the land, in contradistinction
to the time when it had been held by another: but if, as follows from Gen. chap. x. Canaan
was the first to inhabit the land, the text must mean to exclude the time present, that is
the time at which it was written; therefore it cannot be the work of Moses, in whose time the
Canaanites still possessed those territories: this is the mystery concerning which silence
is recommended.

(23) V. That in Genesis xxii:14 Mount Moriah is called the mount of God, [Endnote 9], a name
which it did not acquire till after the building of the Temple; the choice of the mountain
was not made in the time of Moses, for Moses does not point out any spot as chosen by God;
on the contrary, he foretells that God will at some future time choose a spot to which this
name will be given.

