The circular fan, placed in the centre piece of the ceiling and controlled by an electric switch
on the wall, is the principal type of apparatus applicable to the purposes of ventilation.
As electric lighting of dwelling-houses becomes more common, and ultimately almost universal
within cities, the practice will be to arrange for lighting and for ventilation at the same
time. But, unfortunately, the current now principally employed for electric lighting and consisting
of a series of impulses, first in one direction and then in the opposite, "alternating" with
wonderful rapidity, is not well adapted for driving small motors of the types now in use. One
improvement in domestic economy greatly needed in the twentieth century consists in the invention
of a really effective simple and economical "alternate-current" motor. This is a matter which
will be referred to in dealing with electrical machines. That the problem will be solved before
many years have passed there is no good reason to doubt.

In the meantime many laudable endeavours are being made towards the application of the pressure
from water pipes to the purpose of driving ventilating fans. The extreme wastefulness of power
and of water involved in this method of dealing with the difficulty may be partially overlooked
on account of the very small amounts required to produce an effect in the desired direction;
and yet there is no doubt that a recognition of the wastefulness acts to some extent as a deterrent
to artificial ventilation. The benefits of the system are not sufficiently obvious or showy
to induce any class of people, excepting physicians and persons fully acquainted with the principles
of hygiene, to sanction a material outlay upon the object. When an exactly suitable alternate-current
motor has been invented the standard electric light installation will be practically one apparatus
with the ventilating fan, and the cost of the latter will hardly be felt as a separate item.

In cooking there is in existing ordinary methods the same enormous waste of heat as there is
in the warming of rooms. Something, no doubt, has been done in the direction of economy by
the invention of new and improved forms of stoves, but a great preponderance of the heat generated
in the fire of even the best stove goes up the chimney. The electric oven, as already invented,
is perhaps the nearest approach to a really economical "cooker" that has yet been proposed;
but even before the general adoption of such an apparatus there will be ample room for improvement
in the cooking stove, first as regards insulation, and secondly in the distribution of the
fuel around the objects to be heated. One principal cause of the waste that goes on arises
from the fact that the fire burns away from the place at which its heat is most beneficially
applied, and no means are adopted, as in the case of the candle in a carriage lamp, for keeping
it up to the required level. Additions of fuel are made from the top with the immediate effect
of checking the heat.

A great advance in economy of fuel will take place when the household coal intended for cooking
purposes is ground up together with the proper proportions of certain waste products of chemistry,
so as to make a "smouldering mixture" which can be kept regularly supplied to a shallow or
thin fire box by pressure applied from beneath or at the parts farthest away from the objects
to be heated. An oven, for instance, may be surrounded by a "jacket" filled with ground smouldering
mixture having a non-conducting insulator outside and a connection with a chimney. The heat
from the fuel is thus kept in close proximity to the objects requiring to be cooked, and comparatively
small waste results.

It is by taking advantage of their superior facilities in the same direction that gas and inflammable
oils have already made their mark in the sphere of domestic cookery. Regarded as fuel their
initial cost may be relatively heavy; and yet, owing to their more exact method of application,
they often effect a saving in the end. Not only do they bring the fire closer to the articles
to be heated or cooked, but they also make it easy for the fire to be turned off or on, and
this in itself is an important source of economy. Still, with the advent of cheaper and more
accessible power in every centre of population, the cost of grinding coal and of mixing it
in order to form a fuel comparable in respect of convenience and economy with gas and oil will
be so greatly reduced that the "black diamond" will still continue to challenge its rivals
in the arena of competition presented by the demands of domestic economy.

Light, as well as heat and air, requires to be evenly and equably distributed throughout the
dwelling-house before anything approaching an ideal residence can be secured. As the science
of hygiene advances it is demonstrated more and more clearly that sunlight--and even diffused
daylight--may be used as a most effective weapon against the spread of disease. Alternations
of deep gloom in the dwelling-house with the superior light resulting from brighter weather
produce many kinds of nervous derangement, not the least deleterious of which arise from the
unnecessary strain to which the eyesight is subjected. The promise of the future is that, through
the abundance of windows provided in the walls, roofs and porches of our dwelling-houses--but
all supplemented with shutters and blinds of various kinds--there shall be a possibility of
regulating, far more accurately than at present, the accessibility of light from outside according
to the brightness or dulness of the day.

It is hardly to be expected that many people will build "Crystal Palaces" in which to reside;
but with the immense progress that is being made in the construction of dwellings with iron
or steel frames, and in the adaptation of various materials so that they may serve for building
purposes in conjunction with metallic frameworks, it seems clear that many roofs, as well as
large portions of walls, will in future be made on the composite principle, using steel and
glass. These will, to a large extent, be permanently sheltered from the direct rays of the
sun when high in the heavens, by shutters constructed on the louvre principle so that they
may admit the light from the sky continually, but actual rays or beams of sunlight only for
a short time after sunrise and at the close of day. The ceilings, if any are provided under
the roofs, will also be glazed.

The obstacles presented in the way of such a reform in a city like London may at first sight
seem so serious as to be practically insuperable. Long rows of three or four storied houses
certainly offer but few facilities for the admission of light through the roofs of any but
the rooms on the top floors, and yet it is in the dwelling-houses of this type that the depression
caused by gloom and the absence of light during the hours of day are most severely felt as
a source of nervous depression. Evolution in a matter of this sort will take place gradually
and along the line of least resistance. Portions of courts, areas and yards will be glazed
over in the way described; and it will be found that those rooms which are thus enclosed and
sheltered from the wind and rain, but left open to the daylight, constitute the most cheerful
sitting places in the houses. Then, as rebuilding and alterations proceed, many houses will
gradually be remodelled--at least as regards some of their rooms--in the same direction. Physicians
will become increasingly insistent on the necessity for admitting plenty of light into the
abodes of the sick, more particularly of families inclined towards consumption.

A very large trade will spring up during the twentieth century in household cooling apparatus
for use in hot climates. The colonial expansion towards which all European races are now tending
inevitably means that very many thousands of persons whose ancestors have been accustomed to
life in cold or temperate climates, will be induced to dwell in the dry and warm, or in the
humid tropical regions of the earth. It will be an important task of the British, Continental
and American machinists of the twentieth century to turn out convenient pieces of apparatus
which shall be available for ventilating houses, especially during the night, and for reducing
the temperature in them to something approaching that which is natural to the inmates. The
old clumsy punkah will be replaced by circular fans keeping up a gentle current of air with
a minimum of noise or annoyance of any kind.

At present it is only in specially favoured circumstances that these quiet-working circular
punkahs can be actuated by mechanical force, that is to say where a prime motor, or an electric
current, or a reticulated water supply for driving a suitable machine may be at hand. In other
situations the use of compressed air or gas may be resorted to, and for this purpose small
capsules, similar to those already introduced for making soda water by the liberation of compressed
carbonic acid gas, will be found handy. For a very small sum of money the householder will
be able to purchase a sufficient number of capsules to ensure motive power for his fan during
a week of hot nights.

A convenient form of small motor suitable for being driven by compressed air or gases in this
way is one in which a diminutive turbine or other wheel is set at the bottom of a thin tube
of mercury. The capsule, being fastened to the lower end of this apparatus, liberates at very
short intervals of time bubbles of air or gas, which, in the upward ascent, drive the wheel.
The arrangement depends upon the fact that a stream of gas ascending in a heavy liquid behaves
in the same way as a stream of water descending by its own weight and turning a water-wheel.
It supplies what is perhaps the simplest and most inexpensive small motor available for the
lightest domestic work to which a gentle but continuous source of power is applicable.

For actually cooling the air, as well as keeping it in motion, similar devices will be resorted
to, with the addition of the circulation of the current of air through coils of pipes laid
under the surface of the ground. In this way householders will have all the advantages of living
in cool underground rooms without incurring the discomforts and dangers which are often inseparable
from that mode of life. In the coastal regions, which usually have the most trying climates
for Europeans living in tropical countries, a method of cooling the houses will be based on
the fact that at moderate depths in the sea the prevailing temperature is a steady one, not
much above the freezing point of water. Almost every seaport town within the tropics--where
white residents in their houses swelter nightly in the greatest discomfort from the heat--is
in close proximity to deep ocean water, in which, at all seasons of the year, the regular temperature
is only about thirty-four degrees Fahr. The cost of steel piping strong enough to withstand
the pressure of the water in places which possess absolutely the coolest temperature of the
ocean would be very heavy; but, on the other hand, the actual reduction of heat demanded for
the satisfactory cooling of the air in a dwelling-room is not by any means great, and at quite
shallow depths the heat of the air can be satisfactorily abstracted by the sea water surrounding
coils of pipes.

Even in colder climates it seems likely that similar systems will be found useful in producing
a preliminary reduction in the temperature of the air employed in keeping fresh foodstuffs
such as meat, fruits and vegetables. Fruits especially, when placed in suitable receptacles,
and stored at temperatures quite steady at about the freezing point of water, will not only
be readily kept on land from one season to another, but will be transported to markets thousands
of miles distant from the growers, and sold in practically the same condition as if they had
just been picked from the trees. During the twentieth century the proportion of the fruit eaters
among the peoples of the great manufacturing countries will be very largely augmented, and
this result will be brought about mainly through the instrumentality of methods of keeping
perishable produce free from deterioration by maintaining it almost at the freezing point--a
temperature at which, under suitable conditions as regards exclusion of moisture, and steadiness
of hygrometric pressure, the germs of decay in food are practically prevented from coming to
maturity.

For the cooling of dwelling-rooms in places distant from the sea, various systems, depending
upon the supply of dry cold air from central stations through pipes to the dwellings of subscribers,
will no doubt be brought into operation. This, however, will only be practicable in the more
populous localities having plenty of residents ready to contribute to the expense. For more
isolated houses the cooling and ventilating apparatus of the future may be a modification of
the "shower-blast" which has been successfully adapted to metallurgical purposes. When downward
jets of water, as in a shower-bath, are enclosed in a large pipe connected horizontally with
a room but having facilities for the escape of the water underneath, a strong draught of cool
air is created, and the prevailing temperature is quickly reduced. An apparatus of this kind
may be intended for application either to the ventilators or to the windows of rooms.

Lifts for conveying persons from one storey of a building to another will probably undergo
a considerable amount of modification during the next few years. The establishment of central
electric stations and the distribution of electricity for lighting and for power will offer
a very great premium upon the preference for electric motors for lifts. As soon as a maximum
of efficiency, combined with the minimum of cost, has been attained, there will be a demand
for the introduction of lifts in positions where the traffic is not large enough to warrant
the constant presence of an attendant. In fact the desire will be for some kind of elevator
which shall be just as free to the use of each individual as is the staircase of an ordinary house.

For this purpose, inclined planes having moving canvas or similar ramps will be extensively
brought into use. The passenger steps upon what is practically an endless belt having suitable
slats upon it to prevent his foot from slipping, and, as the hand-railing at the side of this
moves concurrently, he is taken up, without any effort, to the landing on which he may alight
quite steadily. When this idea, which has already been brought into operation, has been more
fully developed, it will be seen that a large circular slowly-revolving disc, set at an angle
and properly furnished, will supply a more convenient form of free elevator. One side will
be used by those who are going up and the other by those who wish to come down. The "well"
of the staircase for such a lift is made in elliptical form, like the shadow projection of
a circle. Steps can be provided so that, when not in motion, the lift will be a staircase not
differing much from the old style.

                              CHAPTER X.

                        ELECTRIC MESSAGES, ETC.

The telegraphic wire in the home and street will fulfil a very important part in the economy
of the twentieth century. For conveying intelligence, as well as for heating, cooking and lighting,
the electric current will become one of the most familiar of all the forces called in to assist
in domestic arrangements. The rapidity with which the electric bell-push has taken the place
of the old-fashioned knocker and the bell-hanger's system affords one indication of the readiness
with which those forms of electric apparatus which are adapted to all the purposes of communicating
and reminding will recommend themselves to the public during the twentieth century.

In another direction the eagerness with which every advance in the telephone is hailed by the
people may well offer an augury of rapid progress in the immediate future. In this department
invention will aim just as much at simplification as at elaboration; and some of the pieces
of domestic electrical apparatus universally used during the twentieth century will be astonishingly
cheap.

The call to awake in the morning will, in cities and towns, be made by wireless telegraphy,
which will also be used for the purpose of regulating the domestic clocks, so that if desired
any suitable form of clock alarm may be used with the most perfect confidence. A tentative
system of this kind has been adopted in connection with certain telephone exchanges, in which
special officers are told off whose duty it is to call those subscribers who have paid the
small fee covering the expense. These officers are required to time their intimations according
to the previously expressed wishes of subscribers. This kind of service, as well as the regulation
of the household clock, is eminently a department of domestic economy in which wireless telegraphy
will prove itself useful, because it does not demand that a subscriber shall have gone to the
expense of installing a wire to his house and of paying a rent or fee for the use of one.

The clock controlled by wireless telegraphy will doubtless undergo a rapid development from
the time when it is first introduced. Practically the same principles which enable the electrician
to utilise the "Hertzian waves," or ether vibrations, for the purpose of setting a clock right
once a day, or once an hour, will permit of an impulse, true to time, being sent from the central
station every second, or every minute, and when this has been accomplished it will be seen
that there is no more use for the maintenance of elaborate clockworks at any place excepting
the central station. The domestic clock will, in fact, become mainly a "receiver" for the wireless
telegraphic apparatus, and its internal mechanism will be reduced, perhaps, to a couple of
wheels, which are necessary to transmit the motion of a minute-hand to that which indicates
the hours.

The fire-alarm of the future must be very simple and inexpensive in order to ensure its introduction,
not only into offices and warehouses but also into shops and houses. The fire-insurance companies
will very shortly awake to the fact that prompt telegraphic alarm in case of fire is worth
far more than the majority of the prohibitions upon which they are accustomed to insist by
way of rendering fires less likely. The main principles upon which the electric fire-alarm
will be operated have already been worked out and partially adopted. In the system of fuses
and cut-outs used in connection with electric lighting, the methods of preventing fire due
to the development of excessive heat have been well studied. But simplification is particularly
required in the case of those fire-alarms which are to be useful for giving intimation of a
conflagration from any cause arising.

As the telegraphic and telephonic wires are extended so as to traverse practically all the
streets of every city, the fire-insurance companies will find it to their advantage to promote
a simple plan, depending on the use of a combustible thread passing round little pulleys in
the corners of all the rooms and finally out to the front, where an electrical "contact-maker"
is fixed, so that on the thread being burnt and broken at any point in its circuit, an electric
message will be at once sent along the nearest wire to the fire-brigade station and a bell
set ringing both inside and outside the premises.

Somewhat similar systems will be used for checking the enterprises of the burglar. The best
protected safes of the future will be enmeshed in networks of wires encased in some material
which will render it impossible to determine their positions from the outside. These wires
will be so related to an electric circuit that the breaking of any one of them, at any part
of its course, will have the effect of ringing a bell and giving warning at the police station,
as well as at other places where potential thief-catchers may be on hand. For doors and windows
very simple contact devices have already been brought out, but the principal objection to their
general adoption arises from the fact that so very many houses remain unconnected with any
telephone system which may be made available for calling the police. Even were all houses connected
it is true that in some instances attempts might be made to cut the wires when a raid was in
contemplation, but the risk of discovery in any such operation would prove a very powerful
deterrent. In fact the telephone wire, more than any other mechanical device, is destined to
aid in "improving" the burglar out of existence.

With the indefinite multiplication of telephone subscribers at very cheap rates, there will
come a powerful inducement towards the invention of new appliances for rendering the subscriber
independent of the attention of officers at any central exchange. The duty of connecting an
individual subscriber with any other with whom he may desire to converse is, after all, a purely
mechanical one, and eminently of a kind which, by a combination of engineering and electrical
skill, may be quite successfully accomplished. In the apparatus which will probably be in use
during the twentieth century, each subscriber will have a dial carrying on its face the names
and numbers of all those with whom he is in the habit of holding communication. This will be
his "smaller dial," and beside it will be another, intended for only occasional use, through
which, by exercising a little more patience, he may connect himself with any other subscriber
whatever. Corresponding dials will be fixed in the central office.

Under this system, when the subscriber desires to secure a connection, he moves a handle round
his dial until the pointer in its circuit comes to the desired number. An electrical impulse
is thus sent along the wire to the central station for every number over which the pointer
passes, and the corresponding pointer or contact-maker at the central station is moved exactly
in sympathy. When the correct number is reached the subscriber is in connection with the person
with whom he desires to converse. If, however, the latter should be already engaged, a return
impulse causes the bell of the first subscriber to ring. Of course the prime cost of installing
such a system as this will be greater than in the case of the simple hand-connected telephones;
but the two systems can be used conjointly, and the immense convenience, especially to large
firms, of being able to go straight to the parties with whom they wish to communicate, will
induce many of them to adopt the automatic apparatus as soon as it has been perfected.

Wireless telephony must come to the front in the near future, but at first for only very special
purposes. The prospect of the profits that would be attendant on working up a business unhampered
by the heavy capital charges which weigh upon the owners of telephone wires must stimulate
inventive enterprise to a remarkable degree in this particular line. The main difficulty, however,
in the application of the system to general purposes will lie in the need for an ingenious
but simple means for enabling one subscriber to call another.

For this purpose probably the synchronised clock system already referred to will be found essential,
each office or house being furnished with a timekeeper of this type kept in constant agreement
with a central clock, and so arranged that only when the ethereal electrical impulse is given
at a certain fixed point in the minute, will any particular subscriber's bell be rung. This
may be effected by some such arrangement as a revolving drum, perforated at a different part
of its periphery for each individual subscriber, and capable of permitting the electrical contact
which makes a magnet and rings the bell only at the fraction of a moment when the subscriber's
slot passes the pointer.

This will mean, of course, that only at a certain almost infinitesimally small space of time
in the duration of each minute will it be possible to call any particular subscriber, or rather
to release the mechanism which will set his bell ringing for perhaps a minute at a time. In
the presence of unscrupulous competition, resulting in the flinging out of Hertzian wave vibrations
promiscuously, for the purpose of destroying a rival's chances of obtaining satisfactory connections,
it would be necessary to make rather more complicated arrangements of a nature analogous to
those of the puzzle lock. Instead of one impulse during the minute, two or three would be required,
in order to release the mechanism for ringing any subscriber's bell; and no ring would take
place unless the time-spaces between these impulses were exactly in accordance with the agreed
form, which might be varied at convenient intervals.

Yet in the cases in which wireless telephony and telegraphy are taken up by local public authorities
having power to forbid any one playing "dog in the manger," by preventing useful work by others
while failing to promote it himself, the simpler system of wireless telephone call will be
practicable. With the advance of municipalisation, and of intelligent collectivism generally,
enterprises of public utility will be guarded from mere cut-throat commercial hostility much
more sedulously in the twentieth century than they have been in the past.

A great multitude of new applications of the telegraphic and telephonic systems will be introduced
in the immediate future. Not only will those subscribers who are connected by wire with central
stations have the advantage of being called at any hour in the morning according to their intimated
wishes, but such services as lighting the fires in winter mornings, so that rooms may be fairly
warmed before they are entered, will be performed by electric messages sent from a central station.

Drawings will also be despatched by telegraph. For such purposes as the transmission of sketches
from the scene of any stirring event, the first really practical application of drawing by
telegraph will probably depend upon the use of a large number of code words divided into two
groups, each of which, on the principles of co-ordinate geometry, will indicate a different
degree of distance from the base line and from the side line respectively, so that from any
sketch a correct message in code may be made up and the drawing may be reconstructed at the
receiving end. Illustrated newspapers will in this way obtain drawings exactly at the same
time as their other messages, and distant occurrences will be brought before the public eye
much more vividly and more correctly than has ever hitherto been practicable.

For special objects, also, photographs can be sent by telegraph through the use of the photo-relief
in plaster of Paris, or other suitable material, which travels backwards and forwards underneath
a pointer, the rising and falling of which is accurately represented by thick and thin lines--or
by the darker and lighter photographic printing of a beam of light of varying intensity--at
the other end, so that a shaded reproduction of the photograph is produced. Relief at the sending
end is in this way translated into darkness of shade at the receiving end. Any general expansion
of this system, if it comes, will necessarily be postponed till long after the full possibilities
of the codeword plan have been exploited, because the latter works in exactly with the ordinary
methods for sending telegraphic matter.

The keen competition between submarine and wireless telegraphy will be one of the most exciting
contests furnished by electrical progress in the first quarter of the new century. Attention
will be devoted to those directions on the surface of the globe in which it is possible to
send messages almost entirely by land lines, and to bridge over comparatively small intervals
of space from land to land by wireless telegraphy. Thus the Asiatic and Canadian route may
be expected shortly to enter into competition with the Atlantic cables in telegraphic business
to the United States; while Australia will be reached viâ Singapore and Java.

A great impetus will be given to the wireless system as a commercial undertaking when arrangements
have been perfected for causing the receiver at any particular station to translate its message
into a form suitable for sending automatically. When this has been done, many of the wayside
stations will be almost entirely self-working, and messages, indeed, may be despatched from
island to island, or from one floating station to another across the Atlantic itself.

Another requirement for really cheap telegraphy on the new system is a more rapid method of
making the letters or signals. The irregular intervals at which the sparks from the coil of
the transmitter fly from one terminal to the other render it impossible to split up the succession
of flashes into intervals on the dot-and-dash principle, without providing for each dot a much
longer period of time than is required for the transmission of messages on land lines. In fact
the need for going slowly in the sending of the message is the principal stumbling-block which
disconcerts ordinary telegraphic operators when they come to try wireless telegraphy. For remedying
this defect the most hopeful outlook is in the direction of a multiplication of the pieces
of apparatus for spark-making and the combining of pairs of them in such a way that, whenever
the first one fails during an appreciable interval of time to emit a spark, the second is called
into requisition. In this way a constant stream of sparks may be ensured, without incurring
the risk of running faster than the coil will supply the electrical impulses necessary for
the transmission of the message.

Increased rapidity in land telegraphy by the ordinary system of transmission by wire, and facility
in making the records at the receiving end in easily read typewriting--these are two desiderata
which at the close of the nineteenth century have been almost attained, but which will take
some time to introduce to general notice. In the commercial system of the twentieth century
the merchant's clerk will write his messages on a typewriter which perforates a strip of paper
with holes corresponding to the various letters, while it sets down in printing, on another
strip, the letters themselves. The latter will be kept as a record, but the former will be
taken to the telegraph office and put through the sending machine without being read by the
operator. The message will print itself at the other end and wrap itself up in secret, nothing
but the address being made visible to the operator.

For the use of the general public who are not possessed of the special apparatus necessary
to perforate the paper another system is available. Sets of movable type may be provided at
the telegraph office in small compartments, the letters being on one side and indentations
corresponding to the required perforations being cut or stamped into the other sides of the
movable pieces. The sender of a message will set it up in a long shallow tray or "galley" like
those used by printers, and he will then turn the faces of the letters downwards and see the
whole passed through the machine without being read by the operator; after which he can distribute
the letters if he chooses. In this way telegraphy will gradually become at once far more secret
and far cheaper than it is at present, and a large amount of correspondence which at present
passes through the post will be sent along the wire.

Many merchants will have their telephonic apparatus fitted with arrangements for setting up
type or perforating strips of paper, as already described; and also with receiving apparatus
for making the records in typewriting. If they fail to find a subscriber or correspondent on
hand at the time when he is wanted, they can write a note to him which he will find hanging
on a paper strip from his telephone when he returns. Another mode of accomplishing a somewhat
similar result is to provide the telephone receiver itself with a moving strip of steel, which,
in its varying degrees of magnetisation, records the spoken words so that they will, at some
distance of time, actuate the diaphragm of the receiver and emit spoken words. The degree of
permanency which can be attained by this system is, of course, a vital point as regards its
practical merits.

Still unsolved electrical problems are the making of a satisfactory alternate current motor
suitable for running with the kind of currents generally used for electric lighting purposes--the
utilisation of the glow lamp having a partial vacuum or attenuated gas for giving a cheap and
soft light somewhat on the principle of the Geissler tube--and last, but not least, the direct
conversion of heat into electricity.

With regard to the first-mentioned, the prospects have been materially altered by a discovery
announced at the New York meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
within a few weeks of the close of the nineteenth century. The handy and effective alternate
current motor indeed seemed then as far distant as it had been in 1896, when Sir David Salomons
remarked, in his work on Electric Light Installations (vol. ii., p. 97): "No satisfactory alternate
current motor available on all circuits exists as yet, although," he added later, "the demand
for such an appliance increases daily". It seems, however, that electricians have been looking
in the wrong direction for the solution of using the same wire for alternate current lighting
and for motive power at the same time. Professor Bedell, of Cornell University, announced at
the New York meeting referred to his discovery of the important fact that when direct and alternate
currents are sent over the same line each behaves as if the other were not there, and thus
the same line can be used for two distinct systems of transmitting electrical energy. No time
will be lost in putting this announcement to the test, not only of scientific but also of practical
verification, and the probability is that all electric lighting stations in the twentieth century
will contain not only dynamos of one type for the supply of light, but also direct current
generators for transmitting power in all directions over the same cables.

The glow lamp having no carbon filament, but setting up a bright light with only a fraction
of the resistance presented by carbon, would, if perfected, render electric lighting by far
the cheapest as well as the best method of illumination. Tentative work has indicated a high
degree of probability that success will be achieved, and the glowing bulb is at any rate a
possibility of the future which it will be well to reckon with.

In reference to the conversion of heat into electricity without the intervention of machinery
to provide motion, and thus to cause magnetic fields to cross one another, very little promise
has yet been shown of any fundamental principle upon which a practical apparatus of the kind
could be based. The electrician who works at this problem has to begin almost de novo, and
his task is an immensely difficult one, although on every ground of analogy success certainly
looks possible. In the meantime, as has already been indicated, the steam turbine and dynamo
combined, working practically as a single machine for the generation of electricity, offers
practically the nearest approach to direct conversion which is yet well in sight.

                              CHAPTER XI.

                               WARFARE.

The last notable war of the nineteenth century has falsified the anticipations of nearly all
the makers of small arms. The magazine rifle was held to be so perfect in its trajectory, and
in the rapidity with which it could discharge its convenient store of cartridges in succession,
that the bayonet charge had been put outside of the region of possibility in warfare. Those
who reasoned thus were forgetting, to a large extent, that while small arms have been improving
so also has artillery, and that a bayonet charge covered by a demoralising fire of field-pieces,
mortars, and quick-firing artillery is a very different thing from one in which the assailants
alone are the targets exposed to fire. Given that two opposing armies are possessed of weapons
of about equal capacity for striking from a distance, they may do one another a great deal
of harm without coming to close quarters at all. Yet victory will rest with the men who have
sufficient bravery, skill and ingenuity to cross the fire-zone and tackle their enemies hand
to hand.

Smoke-producing shells and other forms of projected cover, designed to mask the advance of
cavalry and infantry, will greatly assist in the work of rendering this task of crossing the
fire-zone less dangerous, notwithstanding any possible improvement that may be effected in
the magazine-rifle. Already it has been observed that much of the surprise and confusion which
terrifies those who have no bayonets, when subjected to a cannonade and at the same time brought
face to face with a bayonet charge, arises from the fact that they cannot see to shoot straight,
owing to the haze produced by the smoke and its blinding effects upon the eyes.

Special smoke-producing shells, made for the express purpose of covering a charge, will soon
be evolved from the laboratory of the chemist in pursuance of this clue. In addition to shells
and other missiles, small pieces of steel-piping will be projected by mortars into the fire-swept
zone, in order to supplement the defects of natural cover which, of course, are nearly always
as great as possible, seeing that the ground has generally been selected by the side against
which the attack is being directed.

The task of enabling a rifleman to shoot straight has been taken up with extraordinary zeal
and ability compared with the amount of skill and effort devoted to the corresponding or opposing
object of spoiling his aim and preventing him from getting a shot in. When this latter has
been to some extent accomplished, mainly by the agency of artillery, the bayonet and other
weapons for use at close quarters will once more be in the ascendant. Thin shields of hard
steel will be affixed to the rifles of the attacking party, so as to deflect the bullets wherever
possible.

This baffling of the rifleman by the artillery supporting the cavalry and bayonet charge will
produce momentous changes, not only in the future of war, but also in that of international
relations. Anything which tends to discount the value of personal bravery and to elevate the
tactics of the ambuscade and the sharp-shooting expedition gives, pro tanto, an advantage to
the meaner-spirited races of mankind, and places them more or less in a position of mastery
over those who hold higher racial traditions. The man who will face the risk of being shot
in the open generally belongs to a higher type of humanity than he who only shoots from behind
cover.

Moreover, the nations which have the skill and ingenuity to manufacture new weapons of self-defence
belong to a higher class than those which only acquire advanced warlike munitions by purchase.
One of the early international movements of the twentieth century will be directed towards
the prohibition of the sale of such weapons as magazine-rifles, quick-firing field guns, and
torpedoes to any savage or barbarous race. It will be accounted as treason to civilisation
for any member of the international family to permit its manufacturers to sell the latest patterns
of weapons to races whose ascendency might possibly become a menace to civilisation. As factors
in determining the survival of the fittest, the elements of high character, bravery, and intellectual
development must be conserved in their maximum efficiency at all hazards.

Another potent element in the safeguards of civilisation may be seen in the increased effectiveness
of weapons for coastal defence. The hideous nightmare of a barbarian irruption, such as those
which almost erased culture and intellect from the face of Europe during the dark ages of the
fourth, fifth and sixth centuries, may occasionally be seen exercising its influence in the
pessimistic writings which are from time to time issued from the Press predicting the coming
ascendency of the yellow man.

However the case may be in regard to nations which are accessible by land to the encroachments
of the Asiatic, there is no doubt that those countries which are divided off by the sea have
been rendered much more secure through the rapid advances which have been made in the modern
appliances for defending coasts and harbours. In naval tactics, also, it will be more and more
clearly seen that to possess and defend the harbours where coaling can be carried out is practically
to possess and defend the trade of the high seas; and the essence of good maritime policy will
be to so locate the defended harbours that they may afford the greatest amount of protection,
having in view the harm that may be done by an enemy's harbours in the vicinity.

The most effective naval weapon in the future will undoubtedly be the torpedo, but, like the
bayonet, it requires to be in the hands of brave men before its value as the ultimate arbiter
of naval conflict can be demonstrated. Much fallacious teaching has arisen from what has been
called the lessons of certain naval wars which occurred on the coasts of South America and
China--international embroilments in which mercenaries, or only half-trained seamen and engineers,
were engaged. On similar fallacious grounds it was argued that the magazine-rifle had put the
bayonet out of the court of military arbitrament, and the South African war has proved conclusively
how erroneous was that idea. The use of the torpedo-boat and of the weapons which it carries
must always demand, like that of the bayonet, men of the strongest nerve, and of the greatest
devotion to their duty and to their country.

Fifty miles an hour is a rate which is already in sight as the speed of the future torpedo-boat,
the first turbine steamer of the British Navy having achieved forty-three miles an hour before
the end of the nineteenth century. It should be distinctly understood, however, that such a
speed cannot be kept up for any great length of time and that long voyages are out of the question.
The rôle of the turbine torpedo-boat will be to "get home" with its weapon in the shortest
practicable time. Hence its great value for the defence of harbours by striking at distances
of perhaps two or three hours' steaming.

On the high seas the battle-ships, which will virtually be the cruisers of the future, will
be provided with turbine torpedo-boats, carried slung in convenient positions and ready at
short notice to be let slip like greyhounds. During the hazardous run of the torpedo-boat towards
the enemy, various devices will be employed for the purpose of baffling his aim, such for instance
as the emission of volumes of smoke from the bows and the erection of broad network blinds
covering the sight of the little craft, but capable of being shifted from side to side, so
that the enemy's marksmen may never know exactly what part of the object in sight is to be
aimed at. The torpedo will be carried on a mast, which at the right moment can be lowered to
form a projecting spar like a bowsprit; and the explosion that will take place on its impact
with the enemy's hull will be enough to blow a fatal breach in any warship afloat.

For harbour defence and the safety of the battle-ship the wire-guided and propelled torpedo
will form a second line behind the fast torpedo-boat. This type of weapon strikes with more
unerring accuracy than any other yet included in the armoury of naval warfare, because it is
under the control of the marksman from the time of its launching until it fulfils its deadly
mission. Its range, of course, is strictly limited; but it may be worked to advantage within
the distances at which the best naval artillery can be depended upon to make good practice.

The least costly and the lightest form is that in which the backward pulling of two wires,
unwinding two drums on the torpedo, actuates two screws at greater or less speeds according
to the rapidity of the motion imparted, any advantage of speed in one screw over the other
being responded to by an alteration in the direction taken by the weapon. The torpedo may be
set so as to dive from the surface at any desired interval; but, of course, an appearance in
the form of at least a flash is necessary to enable the operator to judge in what direction
he is sending his missile. Small torpedo-boats, not manned but sticking to the surface, may
be used in the same manner. Each one no doubt runs a very great risk of being hit by shot or
shell aimed at them; but out of half a dozen, discharged at short intervals, it would be practically
impossible for an enemy to make certain that one at least did not find its billet.

The submarine boat will have some useful applications in peace; but its range of utility in
warfare is likely to be very limited. It is hopeless to expect the eyes of sailors to see any
great distance under the water; therefore the descent must be made within sight of the enemy,
who has only to surround himself with placed contact-torpedoes hanging to a depth, and to pollute
the water in order to render the assault an absolutely desperate enterprise.

Military aeronautics, like submarine operations in naval warfare, have been somewhat overrated.
Visions of air-ships hovering over a doomed city and devastating it with missiles dropped from
above are mere fairy tales. Indeed the whole subject of aeronautics as an element in future
human progress has excited far more attention than its intrinsic merits deserve.

A balloon is at the mercy of the wind and must remain so, while a true flying machine, which
supports itself in the air by the operation of fans or similar devices, may be interesting
as a toy, but cannot have much economical importance for the future. When man has the solid
earth upon which to conduct his traffic, without the necessity of overcoming the force of gravitation
by costly power, he would be foolish in the extreme to attempt to abandon the advantage which
this gives him, and to commit himself to such an element as the air, in which the power required
to lift himself and his goods would be immeasurably greater than that needed to transport them
from place to place.

The amount of misdirected ingenuity that has been expended on these two problems of submarine
and aerial navigation during the nineteenth century will offer one of the most curious and
interesting studies to the future historian of technological progress. Unfortunately that faculty
of the constructive imagination upon which inventive talent depends may too frequently be indulged
by its possessor without any serious reference to the question of utility. Fancy paints a picture
in which the inventor appears disporting himself at unheard-of depths below the surface of
the sea or at extraordinary heights above the level of the land, while his friends, his rivals,
and all manner of men and women besides, gaze with amazement! Patent agents are only too well
aware how often an inordinate desire for self-glorification goes along with real inventive
talent, and how many of the brotherhood of inventors make light of the losses which may be
inflicted upon trusting investors so long as they themselves may get well talked about.

Nations may at times be infected with this unpractical vainglory of inventiveness; and on these
occasions there is need of all the restraining influence of the hard-headed business man to
prevent the waste of enormous sums of money. The idea that military ascendency in the future
is to be secured by the ability to fly through the air and to dive for long distances under
the water has taken possession of certain sections in France, Germany, Russia, Great Britain
and the United States. Large numbers of voluble "Boulevardiers" in Paris have, during the last
years of the nineteenth century, made it an article of their patriotic faith that the future
success of the French navy depends upon the submarine boat. The question as to what an enemy
would do with such a boat in actual warfare seems hardly ever to occur to them; and, indeed,
any one who should venture to put such a query would run the risk of being set down as a traitor
to his country!

More important to the student of the practical details of naval preparation is the great question
as to the point at which the contest between shot and armour will be brought to a standstill.
That it cannot proceed indefinitely may be confidently taken for granted. The plate-makers
thicken their armour while the gun-makers enlarge the size and increase the penetrative power
of their weapons, until the weight that has to be carried on a battle-ship renders the attainment
of speed practically impossible.

Meanwhile there is going forward, in the hull of the vessel itself, a gradual course of evolution
which will eventually place the policy of increasing strength of armour and of guns at a discount.
The division of the air-space of a warship into water-tight compartments will doubtless prove
to be, in actual naval conflict, a more effectual means of keeping the vessel afloat than the
indefinite increase in the thickness and consequent weight of her armour.

The most advanced naval architects of modern times are bestowing more and more attention upon
this feature, as affording a prospect of rendering ships unsinkable, whether through accidents
or through injury in warfare. No doubt, for merchant steamers, it will be seen that development
along the lines already laid down in this department will suffice for all practical purposes.
The water-tight bulkheads, with readily closed or automatically shutting doorways, ensure the
maintenance of buoyancy in case of any ordinary accident from collision or grounding, while
the duplication of engines, shafts and propellers--without which no steamship of the middle
twentieth century will be passed by marine surveyors as fit for carrying passengers on long
ocean voyages--will make provision against all excepting the most extremely improbable mishaps
to the machinery.

If the numerical estimate of the chance of the disablement of a single engine and its propeller
during a certain voyage be stated at one to a thousand, then the risk of helplessness through
the break down of both systems in a vessel having twin screws and entirely separate engines
will be represented by the proportion of one to a million. This mode of reckoning, of course,
assumes that the two systems could be made absolutely independent in relation to all possible
disasters; and some deduction must be made on account of the impossibility of attaining this
ideal. Yet it is evident that when every practicable device has been adopted for rendering
a double accident improbable the chances against such a disaster will not be far from the proportion
stated.

When we come to consider the evolution of the warship as compared with that of the merchant
steamer, we are at once confronted with the fact that the infliction of injury upon the boilers,
the engine, or the propellers of a hostile vessel is the great object aimed at by the gunners.
The evolution of the warship in the direction of ensuring safety, therefore, will not stop
at the duplication of the engines, boilers and propellers. In fact it must sooner or later
be apparent that the interests of a great naval power demand the working out of a type of warlike
craft that shall be almost entirely destitute of armour, but constructed on such a principle--both
as to hull and machinery--that she can be raked fore and aft, and shot through in all directions
without becoming either water-logged or deprived of her motive power.

A torpedo-boat built on this system may consist essentially of a series of steel tubes of large
section grouped longitudinally, and divided into compartments like those of a bamboo cane.
Each of these has its own small but powerful boilers and engines, and each its separate propeller
at the stern. Care also is taken to place the machinery of each tube in such a position that
no two are abreast. In fact, the principle of construction is such as to render just as remote
as may be the possibility of any shot passing through the vessel and disabling two at the same
time.

If a boat of this description has each tube furnished not only with a separate screw at the
stern, but also with a torpedo at the bows, it can offer a most serious menace to even the
most powerful battle-ship afloat, because its power of "getting home" with a missile depends
not upon its protective precautions, but upon an appeal to the law of averages, which makes
it practically impossible for any gunners, however skilful, to disable all its independent
sections during the run from long range to torpedo-striking distance. The attacked warship
is like an animal exposed to the onslaught of one of those fabled reptiles possessing a separate
life and a separate sting in each of its myriad sections; so that what would be a mortal injury
to a creature having its vital organs concentrated in one spot produces only the most limited
effect in diminishing its strength and powers of offence.

Or this class of naval fighter may be regarded as a combined fleet of small torpedo-boats,
bound together for mutual purposes of offence and defence. Singly, they would present defects
of coal-carrying capacity, sea-going qualities, and accommodation for crew which would render
them comparatively helpless and innocuous; but in combination they possess all the travelling
capacities of a large warship, conjoined with the deadly powers at close quarters of a number
of torpedo boats, all acting closely in concert upon a single plan.

The chief naval lesson taught during the Spanish-American War was the need for improving the
sea-going qualities of the torpedo-boat before it can be regarded as a truly effective weapon
in naval warfare. It was announced at one stage that if the Spanish torpedo-boat fleet could
have been coaled and re-coaled at the Azores, and two or three other points on the passage
across to America, it might have been brought within striking distance of the United States
cruisers operating against Santiago. This hypothetical statement provided but cold comfort
for the Spaniards, who had been persuaded to put so much of their available naval strength
into a type of craft utterly unsuited for operations complying with the first great requirement
of naval warfare, namely, that the proper limit of the campaign coincides with the shores of
the enemy's country.

But when the naval architect and the engineer have evolved a class of torpedo-using vessel
which can both travel far and strike hard, and which, moreover, can stand a few well-directed
shots penetrating her without succumbing to their effect, a new era will have been opened up
in naval warfare--an era of high explosive weapons requiring to strike home with dash and bravery
in spite of risk from shot and shell; but, like the bayonet on land, capable of overthrowing
all war-machines which can only strike from a considerable distance.

                             CHAPTER XII.

                                MUSIC.

A perfect sostenuto piano has been the dream of many a musician whose ardent desire it was
to perform his music exactly as it was written. A sustained piano note is, indeed, the great
mechanical desideratum for the music of the future. In music, as at present written and published
for the piano, which is, and must continue to be, the real "King of Instruments," there is
a good deal of make-believe. A long note--or two notes tied in a certain method--is intended
to be played as a continued sound, like the note of an organ; whereas there is no piano in
existence which will produce anything even approximately approaching to that effect. The characteristic
of the piano as an instrument is percussion, producing, at the moment of striking the note,
a loud sound which almost immediately dies away and leaves but a faint vibration.

The phonographic record of a pianoforte solo shows this very clearly to the eye, because the
impression made by a long note is a deeply-marked indentation succeeded by the merest shallow
scratch--not unlike the impression made by a tadpole on mud--with a big head and an attenuated
body. Every note marked long in pianoforte music is therefore essentially a sforzando followed
by a rapid diminuendo. Anything in such music marked as a long note to be sustained crescendo--the
most thrilling effect of orchestral, choral, and organ music--is necessarily a sham and a delusion.

The genius and skill which have enabled the masters of pianoforte composition not only to cover
up this defect in their instrument, but even to make amends for it, by working out effects
only suitable for a percussion note, present one of the most remarkable features of musical
progress in the nineteenth century. So notable is that fact in its relation to the pianoforte
accompaniments of vocal music, that it seems open to question whether, even in the presence
of a thoroughly satisfactory sostenuto piano, much use would for many years be made of it for
this particular purpose. The effects of repeated notes succeeding one another with increasing
or decreasing force, and of arpeggio passages, have been so fully explored and made available
in standard music of every grade, that necessarily the public taste has set itself to appreciate
the pianoforte solo and the accompanied song exactly as they are written and performed. These
are, after all, the highest forms of music which civilisation has yet enabled one or two performers
to produce.

Yet, in regard to solo instrumentalisation, there is no doubt that a general hope exists for
the discovery of a compromise between the piano and the organ or between the piano and the
string band. Some inventors have aimed in the latter direction and others in the former; but
no one has succeeded in really recommending his ideas to the public. Combined piano-violins
and piano-organs have been shown at each of the great Exhibitions from the middle of the nineteenth
century to its close. Several of these instruments have been devised and constructed with great
ingenuity; and yet practically all of them have been received by the musical profession either
with indifference or with positive ridicule.

The fact is that revolutionary sudden changes in musical instruments are rendered impossible
owing to the near relationship which exists between each instrument and the general body of
the music that is written for it. No one can divorce the two, which, as a factor in æsthetic
progress, are really one and indivisible. Therefore, if any man invents a musical instrument
which requires for its success the sudden evolution of a new race of composers writing for
it, and a new type of educated public taste to hail these composers with delight, he is asking
for a miracle and he will be disappointed.

What is wanted is not a new instrument, but an improved piano that shall at one and the same
time correct, to some extent, the defects of the existing instrument, and leave still available
all the brilliant effects which have been invented for it by a generation of musical geniuses.
We want the sustained note, and yet we do not wish to lose the pretty turns and graceful devices
by which the lack of it has been hidden, or atoned for, in the works of the masters. Therefore
our sustained note must not be too aggressive. For a long time, indeed, it must partake of
the very defects which it is intended ultimately to abolish.

In other words, we want to retain the percussion note with the dampers and with the loud and
soft pedals, in fact, all the existing inventions for coaxing some of the notes to sustain
themselves while others are cut short, as may be desired, and at the same time we have to add
other and more effective means to assist the performer in achieving the same object.

The more or less complicated methods aiming at the prolongation of the residual effect of the
percussion have apparently been very nearly exhausted. Some of the most modern pianos are really
marvels of mechanical ingenuity applied to this purpose. We have now to look to something slightly
resembling the principle of the violin or of the organ, in order to secure the additional sostenuto
effect for which we are searching. Having to deal with a piano in practically its existing
form, we obviously require to take special account of the fact that the note is begun by percussion,
and that any attempt to bring a solid substance into contact with the wire while still vibrating,
with the object of continuing its motion, is likely to produce more or less of a jarring effect.

The air-blast type of note-continuer for sostenuto effect therefore offers the most promising
outlook for the improvement of the modern piano in the direction indicated. By directing a
blast of air from a very thin nozzle on to the vibrating wire of a piano, the sound emitted
may be very greatly intensified; and although naturally the decreasing amplitude of the vibration
may in itself tend to create a diminuendo, yet it is possible to make up for this in some degree
by causing the air-blast to increase in force, through the use of any suitable means, modified
by an extra pedal as may be desired.

Delicate pianissimo effects, somewhat resembling those of the Eolian lyre, are produced by
playing the notes with the air-blast alone, without the aid of percussion. But the louder sostenuto
notes depend upon the added atmospheric resistance offered by a strong current of air to those
movements of the wire which have been originally set up by percussion, and the fact that this
resistance gives rise to a corresponding continuance of the motion. The prolongation of a note
in this way is analogous to the continual swinging of an elastic switch in a stream of water,
the current by its force producing a rhythmic movement.

When these Eolian effects, as applied to the pianoforte, have been carefully studied, many
devices for controlling them will be brought forward. The main purpose, however, must be to
connect the air-blast with the percussion apparatus in such a manner that, as soon as a key
is depressed, the nozzle of that particular note in the air-blast is opened exactly at the
same time that the wire is struck by the hammer, and it remains open as long as the note is
held down. The movement of an extra pedal, however, has the effect of throwing the whole of
the air-blast apparatus out of gear and reducing the piano to a percussion instrument, pure
and simple.

It will be on the concert platform, no doubt, that this kind of improvement will find its first
field of usefulness. Performers will require, in addition to their grand pianos, reservoirs
of compressed air attachable by tubes to their instruments. In private houses hydraulic air-compressors
will be found more convenient. When the piano has by some such means acquired the faculty of
singing its notes, as well as of ringing them, its ascendency, as the finest instrument adapted
to solo instrumentalism, will be assured.

The common domestic piano is rightly regarded by many people as being little better than an
instrument of torture. One reason for this aversion is that, in the great majority of cases,
the household instrument is not kept in tune. Probably it is not too much to say that the man
who would invent a sound cottage piano which would remain in tune would do more for the improvement
of the national taste in music than the largest and finest orchestra ever assembled. The constantly
vitiated sense of hearing, which is brought about by the continual jangle of notes just a fractional
part of a tone out of tune, is responsible for much of the distaste for good music which prevails
among the people. When the domestic instrument is but imperfectly tuned, it is natural that
those pieces should be preferred which suffer least by reason of the imperfection, and these,
it need hardly be remarked, generally belong to the class of music which must be rated as essentially
inferior, if not vulgar.

The device of winding a string round a peg and twisting it up on the latter in order to obtain
tension for a vibrating note is thousands of years old. It was the method by which tension
was imparted to some of the earliest harps and lyres of which history is cognisant; and it
is still to be found to-day in the most elaborate and costly grand piano, with but few alterations
affecting its principle of action. The pianoforte of the future will be kept in tune by more
exact and scientific methods, attaining a certain balance between the thickness of the wire
and the tension placed upon it by means of springs and weights.

Besides the ravages of the badly-tuned piano, much suffering is inflicted by the barbarous
habit of permitting a sounding instrument to be used for mere mechanical exercises. The taste
of the pupil is vitiated, and the nerves of other inmates of the house are subjected to a source
of constant irritation when long series of notes, arranged merely as muscular exercises, and
some of them violating almost every rule of musical form, are ground out hour after hour like
coffee from a coffee-mill. The inconsistency of subjecting the musical ear and taste of a boy
or girl to this process, and then expecting the child to develop an innate taste for the delicacies
of form in melody and of the beauty of harmony, is almost as bad as would be that of asking
a Chinese victim of foot-binding to walk easily and gracefully.

The use of the digitorium for promoting the mechanical portion of a musical education by the
training of the fingers has already, to some slight extent, obviated the evils complained of.
But this instrument is, as yet, only in its rudimentary stage of development. The dumb notes
of the keyboard ought to be capable of emitting sounds by way of notice to the operator, in
order to show when the rules have been broken. Thus, for instance, the impact caused by putting
a key down should have the effect of driving a small weight upwards in the direction of a metal
bar, the distance of which can be adjusted. Another bar, at a lower level, is also approached
by a second weight, and the perfect degree of evenness in the touch is indicated by the fact
that the lower bar should be made to emit a faint sound with every note, but the higher one
not at all. The closer the bars the more difficult is the exercise, and remarkable evenness
of touch can be acquired by a progressive training with such an instrument.

The organ has been wonderfully improved during the nineteenth century. Yet the decline of its
popularity in comparison with the pianoforte may be accounted for on very rational grounds.
While ardent organists still claim that the organ is the "King of Instruments" the public generally
entertain a feeling that it is a deposed king. It remains for the organ-builders of the twentieth
century to attack the problem of curing its defects by methods going more directly to the root
of the difficulty than any hitherto attempted.

As contrasted with the pianoforte, the organ is extremely deficient in that power which the
conductor of an orchestra loves to exercise--facility in accentuating and in subduing at will
the work of each individual performer. For all practical purposes the ten fingers of a piano-player
are the ten players in an orchestra; and, according to the force with which each finger strikes
the note, is the prominence given to its effects. An air or a motif may be brought out with
emphasis by one set of fingers, while the others are playing an accompaniment with all sorts
of delicate gradations of softness and emphasis.

By multiplying the manuals, the organ-builder has endeavoured, with a certain degree of success,
to make up for the unfortunate fact that the performer on his instrument possesses no similar
facility in making it speak louder when he submits the note to extra pressure. One hand may
be playing an air on one manual, while the second is engaged in the accompaniment on another;
and the former may be connected with a louder stop, or with one of a more penetrating quality
than the latter.

This device, together with an elaborate arrangement of swells and pedal-notes, has greatly
enlarged the capacity of the organ for producing those choral effects which mainly depend upon
gradations of volume. Yet the whole system, elaborate as it is, offers but a poor substitute
for the marvellous range of individuality that may be expressed on the notes of the piano by
instantaneous changes in the values ascribed to single notes. By the same action of his finger
the pianist not only makes the note, but also gives its value; while the method of the organist
is to neglect the element of finger-pressure and to rely upon other methods for imparting emphasis
or softness to his work.

An organ that shall emit a louder or softer note, according to the force with which the key
on the manual is depressed, will no doubt be one of the musical instruments of the twentieth
century. Whether each key will be fitted with a resisting spring, or whether the lever will
be constructed in such a way as to throw a weight to a higher or lower grade of position, according
to the force with which it is struck, is a question which will depend upon the results of experiment.
But the latter method is more in consonance with the conditions which have given to the piano
its wonderful versatility, and it therefore seems the more probable solution of the two. Upon
the vigour of the finger's impact will depend the height to which a valve is thrown, and this
will determine the speed and volume of the air which is liberated to rush into the pipe and
make the note.

The nineteenth century orchestra is a fearfully and wonderfully constructed agglomeration of
ancient and modern instruments. Its merits are attested by the fine musical sense of the most
experienced conductors, whose aim it has been so to balance the different instruments as to
produce a tastefully-blended effect, while at the same time providing for solos and also for
the rendering of parts in which a small number of performers may contribute to the unfolding
of the composer's ideas. The orchestra cannot therefore be examined or discussed from a mechanical
point of view, however much some of the instruments of which it is composed may be thought
capable of improvement.

But the position of the conductor himself in the front of an orchestra is, from a purely artistic
standpoint, highly anomalous. It is as if the prompter at the performance of a drama were to
be seen taking the most conspicuous part and mixing among the actors upon the stage. If an
orchestral piece be well played without the visible presence of a conductor, the sense of correct
time reaches the audience naturally through the music itself; and any sort of gesticulations
intended to mark it are under these conditions regarded as being out of place.

The foremost orchestral conductors of the day are evidently impressed with this unfitness of
the mechanical marking of time by the wild waving of a stick or swaying of the body; and accordingly,
however much they exert themselves at the rehearsal, they purposely subdue their motions during
a public performance. The time is not far distant when the object of the conductor will be
to guide his band without permitting his promptings to be perceived in any way by the audience.

For this purpose an "electric beat-indicator" will prove useful. Various proposals for its
application have been put forward, and for different purposes several of them are obviously
feasible. For instance, in one system the conductor sits in a place hidden from the audience
and beats time on an electric contact-maker, which admits of his sending a special message
to any particular performer whenever he desires to do so. The signal which marks the time may
be given to each performer, either visually by a beater concealed within a small bell-shaped
cavity affixed to his desk or to his electric light; or it may be conveyed by the sense of
touch through a mechanical beater within a small metal weight placed on the floor and upon
which he sets one of his feet.

The electric time-beater in the latter system thus taps the measure gently on the sole of the
performer's foot, and special signals, as may be arranged, are sent to him by preconcerted
combinations of taps. The absence of any distraction from the music itself will soon be gratefully
felt by audiences, and the playing of a symphony in the twentieth century, in which the whole
orchestra moves sympathetically in obedience to the "nerve-waves" of the electric current,
will be the highest possible presentment of the musical art.

                            CHAPTER XIII.

                            ART AND NEWS.

The production of pictures for the million will be practically the highest achievement of the
graphic art in the twentieth century. Many eminent painters do not at all relish the prospect,
being strongly of opinion that when every branch of art becomes popular it will be vulgarised.
This notion arises from a fallacy which has affected ideas during the nineteenth century in
many matters besides art, the mistake of supposing that vulgar people all belong to one grade
of society.

Yet every one who knows modern England, for instance, is perfectly aware that the highest standard
of taste is only to be found in the elect of all classes of society. After the experience of
the eighteenth century, surely it ought to have been recognised that the "upper ten thousand,"
when left to develop vulgarity in its true essence, can attain to a degree of perfection hardly
possible in any other social grade. Is there in the whole range of pictorial art anything more
irredeemably vulgar than a "State Portrait" by Sir Thomas Lawrence or one of his imitators?

It was under the prompting of a dread of the process of popularising art that so many eminent
painters of the nineteenth century protested against the fashion set by Sir J. E. Millais when
he sold such pictures as "Cherry Ripe" and "Bubbles," knowing they were intended for reproduction
in very large numbers by mechanical means. From a somewhat similar motive a few of the leading
artists of the nineteenth century for a time stood aloof from the movement for familiarising
the people with at least the form, if not the colouring, of each notable picture of the year.
From small and very unpretentious beginnings, the published pictorial notes of the Royal Academy
and other exhibitions of the year have risen to most imposing proportions; and already there
is some talk of attempting a few of the best from each year's production in colours.

Half-tone zinco and similar processes have brought down the expenses entailed by reproductions
in colour-work, so as to render an undertaking of this kind much more feasible than it was
in the middle of the last half-century. "Cherry Ripe" cost five thousand pounds to reproduce,
by the laborious processes of printing not only each colour, but almost every different shade
of each colour from a different surface.

In the "three-colour-zinco" process of reproduction only three printings are required, each
colour with all its delicate gradations of shade being fully provided for by a single engraved
block. When machines of great precision have been finally perfected for admitting of the successive
blocks being printed from on paper run from the reel without any handling, a revolution will
be brought about not only in artistic printing, but even in the conditions of studio work upon
which the artist depends for success.

First, the pictorial notes of the year will be brought out in colour; and as competition for
the right of reproduction increases, the artists who have painted the most suitable and most
popular pictures will find that they can get more remuneration for copyright than they can
for the pictures themselves. This has already been the case in regard to a very limited number
of pictures; but the exception of the past will be the rule of the future, at least as regards
those pictures which possess any special merits at all.

More thought will therefore be required as the motive or basis of each subject; and historical
pictures will come more into favour, the affected simplicity and mental emptiness of the plein
air school being discarded in favour of a style which shall speak more directly to the people,
and stir more deeply both their mental and their emotional natures.

The artist and the printer must then confer. They can no longer afford to work in the future
with such disregard of each other's ideas and methods as they have done in the past. It was
at one time the custom among painters almost to despise the "black-and-white man" who drew
for the Press in any shape or form; but that piece of affectation has nearly been destroyed
by the general ridicule with which it is now received, and by the knowledge that there are
already, at the end of the nineteenth century, just as many men of talent working by methods
suitable for reproduction, as there are painters who confine their attention to palette, canvas
and brush.

The printer will now advance a step further, and will invoke the services of the painter himself,
even prescribing certain methods by which the Press may be enabled to reproduce the work of
the artist more faithfully than would otherwise be possible.

Transparency painting will no doubt be one of these methods. The artist will paint on a set
of sheets of transparent celluloid or glass, mounted in frames of wood and hinged so that they
can, for purposes of observation, be put aside and yet brought back to their original positions
quite accurately. Each different transparent sheet will be intended for one pure colour, the
only pigments used being of the most transparent description obtainable.

The picture may thus be built up by successive additions and alterations, not all put upon
one surface, but constituting a number of "monochromes," superimposed one upon the other. When
finished, each of these one-colour transparencies can then be reproduced by photo-mechanical
means for multi-colour printing in the press.

By what are known as the photographic "interruption" processes, a kind of converse method has
achieved a certain degree of success. A landscape or a picture is photographed several times
from exactly the same position, but on each occasion it is taken through a screen of a different
coloured glass, which is intended for the purpose of intercepting all the rays of light, except
those of one particular tint. Coloured prints in transparent gelatine or other suitable medium
are then made from the various negatives, each in its appropriate tint; and when all are placed
together and viewed through transmitted light, the effect of the picture, with all its colours
combined, is fairly well produced. More serviceable from the artistic point of view will be
the method according to which the artist makes his picture by transmitted light, but the finished
printed product is seen on paper, because this latter lends itself to the finest work of the
artistic printer.

The principal branch of the work of the photographer must continue to be portraiture. He cannot
greatly reduce the cost of getting a really good negative, because so much hand-labour is required
for the task of "retouching"; but he can give, perhaps, a hundred prints for the price which
he now charges for a dozen, and make money by the enterprise. It has already been proved that
there is no necessity for using expensive salts of gold, silver or platinum in order to secure
the most artistic prints; and, as a matter of fact, some of the finest art work in the photography
of the past quarter of a century has been accomplished with the cheapest of materials, such
as gelatine, glue and lampblack.

Pigmented gelatine is, without doubt, the coming medium for photographic prints, and the methods
of making them must approximate more and more closely to those of the typographic printer.
By producing a "photo-relief" in gelatine--sensitised with bichromate of potash, and afterwards
exposed first to the sun and then to the action of water--an impression in plastic material
can be secured, from which, with the use of warm, thin, pigmented gelatine, a hundred copies
or more can be printed off in a few minutes.

The very general introduction of such a process has naturally been delayed owing to the extra
trouble involved in the first methods which were suggested for applying it, and also, no doubt,
on account of the recent fashion for platinotype and bromide of silver prints. But as soon
as more convenient details for the making of pigmented gelatine prints have been elaborated,
the cheapness of the material and the wonderful variety of the art shades and tints in which
photographs can be executed will give the gelatine processes an advantage in the competition
which it will be hopeless for other methods to challenge.

The daily newspapers of a few years hence will be vividly illustrated with photographic pictures
of the personages and the events of the day. The gelatine photo-relief, already alluded to,
will no doubt afford the basis of the principal processes by which this will be effected. Hitherto
the chief drawback has been the difficulty of imparting a suitable grain to the printing blocks
made from these reliefs; but this has been practically overcome by the use of sheets of metallic
foil previously impressed with the form of a finely-engraved tint-block. The actual printing
surface, of course, consists of an electrotype or stereotype taken from this metallic-grained
photographic face.

For "high-art" printing on fine paper with the more expensive kinds of ink, the half-tone zinco
processes will doubtless maintain their supremacy and gradually diminish the area within which
lithographic printing is required. In the case of newspaper work, however, where haste in getting
ready for the press is necessarily the prime consideration, the flat and very slightly-indented
surface of the zinco block is found to be unsuited to the requirements. Flat blocks, which
require careful "overlaying" on the machine, waste too much time for daily news work. Without
going into technical details it may be surmised in general terms that in the near future almost
every newspaper will contain, each day, one or more photo-illustrations of events of the previous
day or of the news which has come to hand from a distance.

Type-setting by hand is, for newspaper purposes, being so rapidly superseded, that only in
the smaller towns and villages can it remain for even a few years longer. But in the machines
by which this revolution has been effected, finality has been by no means reached. Every line
of matter which appears in any modern daily newspaper has to pass through two processes of
stereotyping before it makes a beginning to effect its final work of printing upon paper.

First, there is the stereotyping or casting of the line in its position in the type-setting
machine after the matrices have been ranged in position by the application of the fingers to
the various keys; and, secondly, when all the lines have been placed together to make a page,
it is necessary to take an impression of them upon papier mâché, or what is technically called
"flong," and then to dry it and make the full cast from it curved and ready for placing on
the cylinder of the printing machine. The delay occasioned by the need for drying the wet flong
is such a serious matter--particularly to evening newspapers requiring many editions during
the afternoon--that several dry methods have been tried with greater or less success.

But there is really no need for more than one casting process. In the twentieth century machine
the matrices will be replaced by permanent type from which, when ranged in the line, an impression
will be made by hard pressure on a small bar of soft metal or plastic material. All the impressed
bars having been set together in a casting box having the necessary curvature, the final stereo
plate for printing from will be taken at once by pouring melted metal on the combined bars.

An appreciable saving, both in time and in money, will also be effected by applying the principle
of the perforated strip of paper or cardboard to the purpose of operating the machine by which
the necessary letters are caused to range themselves in the required order. Machines similar
to typewriters will be employed for perforating the strips of paper and for printing, at the
same time, in ordinary letters the matter just as if it were being typewritten.

The corrections can then be made by cutting off those pieces of the strips which are wrong
and inserting corrected pieces in their places. No initial "justification" to the space required
to make a line is needed in this system. The strips, however, are put through the setting machine,
and, as they make the reading matter by the impression of bars as already described, they are
divided into lines automatically.

Large numbers of newspapers will in future be sold from "penny-in-the-slot" machines. The system
to be adopted for this particular purpose will doubtless differ in some important respects
from that which has been successful in the vending of small articles such as sweetmeats and
cigarettes. The newspapers may be hung on light bars within the machine, these being supported
at the end by a carefully-adjusted cross piece, which, on the insertion of a penny in the slot,
moves just sufficiently to permit the end of one bar with its newspaper to drop, and to precipitate
the latter on to a table forming the front of the machine. When the full complement of newspapers
has been exhausted the slot is automatically closed.

Some of the newspapers of the twentieth century will be given away gratis, and will be, for
the most part, owned by the principal advertisers. This is the direction in which journalistic
property is now tending, and at any juncture steps might be taken, in one or other of the great
centres of newspaper enterprise, which would precipitate the ultimate movement. Hardly any
one who buys a half-penny paper to-day imagines for a moment that there is any actual profit
on the article.

It is understood on all hands that the advertisers keep the newspapers going and that the arrangement
is mutually beneficial. Not that either party can dictate to the other in matters outside of
its own province. The effect is simply to permit the great public to purchase its news practically
for the price of the paper and ink on which it is conveyed; the condition being that the said
public will permit its eyes to be greeted with certain announcements placed in juxtaposition
to the news and comments.

Sooner or later, therefore, the idea will occur to some of the leading advertisers to form
a syndicate and give to the people a small broadsheet containing briefly the daily narrative.
The ponderous newspapers of the latter end of the nineteenth century--filled full of enough
of linotype matter to occupy more than the whole day of the subscriber in their perusal--will
be to a large extent dispensed with; and the new art of journalism will consist in saying things
as briefly--not as lengthily--as possible.

                             CHAPTER XIV.

                     INVENTION AND COLLECTIVISM.

The ownership of machinery and of all the varied appliances in the evolution of which inventive
genius is exercised is a matter which, strictly speaking, does not belong to the domain of
this work. Nevertheless, in endeavouring to forecast the progress of invention during the twentieth
century, it is necessary to take count of the risks involved in the inauguration of any public
and social economical systems which might tend to stifle freedom of thought and to discourage
the efforts of those who have suggestions of industrial improvements to make.

It is plain that those economic forces which prevent the inventor from having his ideas tested
must to that extent retard the progress of industrial improvement. Thousands of men, who imagine
that they possess the inventive talent in a highly developed degree, are either crack-brained
enthusiasts or else utterly unpractical men whose services would never be worth anything at
all in the work of attacking difficult mechanical problems. It is in the task of discriminating
between this class and the true inventors that many industrial organizers fail. Any economic
system which offers inducements to the directors of industrial enterprises to shirk the onerous,
and at times very irksome, duty of sifting out the good from the bad must stand condemned not
only on account of its wastefulness, but by reason of its baneful effects in the discouragement
of inventive genius.

Considerations of this kind lead to the conclusion that during the twentieth century the spread
of collectivist or socialistic ideas, and the adoption of methods of State and municipal control
of production and transport may have an important bearing upon the progress of civilisation
through the adoption of new inventions. Many thinking men and women of the present generation
are inclined to believe the twentieth century invention par excellence will be the bringing
of all the machinery of production, transport and exchange under the official control of persons
appointed by the State or by the municipality, and therefore amenable to the vote of the people.
Projects of collectivism are in the air, and high hopes are entertained that the twentieth
century will be far more distinctively marked by the revolution which it will witness in the
social and industrial organisation of the people than in the improvements effected in the mechanical
and other means for extending man's powers over natural forces.

The average official naturally wishes to retain his billet. That is the main motive which governs
nearly all his official acts; and in the treatment which he usually accords to the inventor
he shows this anxiety perhaps more clearly than in any other class of the actions of his administration.
He wants to make no mistakes, but whether he ever scores a distinct and decided success is
comparatively a matter of indifference to him. So long as he does not give a handle to his
enemies to be used against him, he is fairly contented to go on from year to year in a humdrum
style.

Even a man of fine feeling and progressive ideas soon experiences the numbing effects of the
routine life after he has been a few years in office. He knows that he will be judged rather
on the negative than on the positive principle, that is to say, for the things which it is
accounted he ought not to have done rather than for the more enterprising good things which
it is admitted he may have done.

Now any one who undertakes to encourage invention must necessarily make mistakes. He may indeed
know that one case of brilliant success will make up for half a dozen comparative failures;
but he reckons that at any rate the blanks in the chances which he is taking will numerically
exceed the prizes. An official, however, will not dare to draw blanks. Better for him to draw
nothing at all. He must therefore turn his back upon the inventor and approve of nothing which
has not been shown to be a great success elsewhere.

This means that the socialised and municipalised enterprises must always lag behind those depending
upon private effort; and the country which imposes disabilities on the latter must, for a time
at least, lose its lead in the industrial race. This is what happened to England, as contrasted
with the United States, when, under the influence of enthusiasm for future municipalisation,
the British Legislature laid heavy penalties upon those who should venture to instal electric
trams in the United Kingdom.

The American manufacturers and tramway companies, in their keen competition with one another
and perfect freedom to compete on even terms with horse traction, soon took the lead in all
matters pertaining to electric traction, and the British public, at the close of the nineteenth
century, have had to witness the humiliating spectacle of their own public authorities being
forced to import electrical apparatus, and even steam-engines applicable to dynamos used for
tramway purposes, from the other side of the Atlantic!

The lesson thus enforced will not in the end be missed, although it may require a considerable
time to be fully understood. Officialism is a foe to inventive progress; and whether it exists
under a regime of collectivism or under one of autocracy, it must paralyse industrial enterprise
to that extent, thus rendering the country which has adopted it liable to be outstripped by
its competitors.

The true friend of inventive progress is generally the rising competitor in a busy hive of
industry where the difficulties of securing a profitable footing are very considerable. Such
a man is ever on the watch for an opportunity to gain some leverage by which he may raise himself
to a level with older-established or richer competitors. If he be a good employer his workmen
enter into the spirit of the competition, feeling that promotion will follow on any services
they may render. They may perhaps possess the inventive talent themselves, or they may do even
greater services by recognising it in others and co-operating in their work. It is thus that
successful inventions are usually started on their useful careers.

It is therefore upon private enterprise that the principal onus of advancing the inventions
which will contribute to the progress of the human race in the twentieth century must necessarily
fall. The type of man who will cheerfully work pro bono publico, with just as much ardour as
he would exhibit when labouring to advance his own interests, may already be found here and
there in civilised communities at existing stages of development; but it is not sufficiently
numerous to enable the world to dispense with the powerful stimulus of competition.

Just as a superior type of machinery can be elaborated during the course of a single century,
there is no doubt that--mainly through the use of improved appliances for lessening the amount
of brute force which man needs to exert in his daily avocations--the nervous organisations
of the men and women constituting the rank and file during the latter part of the twentieth
century will be immensely improved in sensitiveness. A corresponding advance will then take
place in the capacity for collectivism. But a human being of the high class demanded for the
carrying out of any scheme of State socialism must be bred by a slow improvement during successive
generations. A hundred years do not constitute a long period of time in the process of the
organic evolution of the human race, and, as Tennyson declared,

  We are far from the noon of man--
  There is time for the race to grow.

Yet the public advantages of collectivist activities in certain particular directions cannot
for a moment be denied. Much waste and heavy loss are entailed by the duplication of works
of general utility by rival owners, each of them, perhaps, only half utilising the full capacities
of his machinery or of the other plant upon which capital has been expended.

Moreover, as soon as companies have become so large that their managers and other officials
are brought into no closer personal relations with the shareholders than the town clerks, engineers,
and surveyors of cities, and the departmental heads of State bureaus are associated with the
voters and ratepayers, the systems of private and of collective ownership begin to stand much
more nearly on a par as regards the non-encouragement which they offer to inventiveness.

One of the greatest discoveries of the twentieth century, therefore, will be the adoption of
a via media which will admit of the progressiveness of private ownership in promoting industrial
inventions, combined with the political progressiveness of collectivism. One direction in which
an important factor assisting in the solution of this problem is to be expected is in the removal
of the causes which tend to make public officials so timid and unprogressive.

So long as a mere temporary outcry about the apparent non-success of some adopted improvement--whose
real value perhaps cannot be proved unless by the exercise of patience--may result in the dismissal
or in the disrating of the official who has recommended it, just so long will all those who
are called upon to act as guides to public enterprises be compelled to stick to the most conservative
lines in the exercise of their duties. More assurance of permanence in positions of public
administration is needed.

The man upon whose shoulders rests the responsibility of adopting, or of condemning, new proposals
brought before him, ostensibly in the interests of the public welfare, ought to be regarded
as being called upon to carry out quasi-judicial functions; and his tenure of office, and his
claim to a pension after a busy career, ought not to depend upon the chances of the evanescent
politics of the day. If a man has proved, by his close and successful application to the study
of his profession--as evinced in the tests which he has passed as a youth and during his subsequent
career in subordinate positions--that he is really a lover of hard work, and imbued with conscientious
devotion to duty, he may generally be trusted, when he has attained to a position of superintendence,
to do his utmost in the interests of the public whom he serves. This is the theory upon which
the appointment of a judge in almost any English-speaking community is understood to be made;
and, although failures in its application may occur now and then, there is no doubt whatever
that on the average of cases it works out well in practice.

If private manufacturers, whose success in life depends upon their appreciation of talent and
inventiveness, could be assured that in dealing with public officials they would be brought
into contact with men of the standing indicated, instead of being confronted so frequently
with the demand for commissions and other kinds of solatium on account of the risks undertaken
in recommending anything new, they would soon largely modify their distrust of what is known
as collectivism. It is the duty of the public whose servant an official is, rather than of
the private manufacturer, to insure him against the danger of losing his position on account
of any possible mistake in the exercise of his judgment.

In short, the day is not far distant when the men upon whom devolves the responsibility of
examining into, and reporting upon, the claims of those who profess to have made important
industrial improvements will be looked upon as exercising judicial functions of the very highest
type. When the important reforms arising from this recognition have been introduced, the forces
of collectivism will cease to range themselves on the side of stolid conservatism in industry,
as they undoubtedly have done in the nineteenth century even while they inconsistently professed
to advance the cause of progress politically.

The inventor, who in the early part of the nineteenth century was generally denounced as a
public enemy, will, in the latter part of the twentieth century, be hailed as a benefactor
to the community, because he will be judged by the ultimate, rather than by the immediate,
effects of his work, and because it will be the duty of the public authorities to see to it
that the dislocation of one industry incidental the promotion of another by any invention does
not, on the whole, operate to throw people out of employment, but, on the contrary, gives more
constant work and better wages to all. But the slow progress of the fundamental traits of human
nature will retard the attainment of this goal. The world has a long distance to travel in
the uphill road of industrial and social improvement before it can succeed in obtaining a really
true view of the part fulfilled by inventive genius in contributing to human happiness.

                THE ABERDEEN UNIVERSITY PRESS LIMITED.

                                   A
                         CLASSIFIED CATALOGUE
                                  OF
                           SCIENTIFIC WORKS

                             PUBLISHED BY
                    MESSRS. LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO.

                   LONDON: 39 PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.
                   NEW YORK: 91 & 93 FIFTH AVENUE.
                       BOMBAY: 32 HORNBY ROAD.

                               CONTENTS.

                                                                PAGE
  ADVANCED SCIENCE MANUALS                                      30
  AGRICULTURE                                                     27
  ASTRONOMY                                                       14
  BACTERIOLOGY                                                    25
  BIOLOGY                                                         25
  BOTANY AND GARDENING                                            26
  BUILDING CONSTRUCTION                                           10
  CHEMISTRY                                                        2
  DYNAMICS                                                         6
  ELECTRICITY                                                     11
  ELEMENTARY SCIENCE MANUALS                                    30
  ENGINEERING                                                     12
  GEOLOGY                                                         16
  HEALTH AND HYGIENE                                              18
  HEAT                                                             8
  HYDROSTATICS                                                     6
  LIGHT                                                            8
  LONDON SCIENCE CLASS-BOOKS                                    32
  LONGMANS' CIVIL ENGINEERING SERIES                            13
  MACHINE DRAWING AND DESIGN                                      13
  MAGNETISM                                                       11
  MANUFACTURES                                                    18
  MECHANICS                                                        6
  MEDICINE AND SURGERY                                            19
  METALLURGY                                                      14
  MINERALOGY                                                      14
  NATURAL HISTORY AND GENERAL SCIENCE                             17
  NAVAL ARCHITECTURE                                              13
  NAVIGATION                                                      14
  OPTICS                                                           8
  PHOTOGRAPHY                                                      8
  PHYSICS                                                          5
  PHYSIOGRAPHY                                                    16
  PHYSIOLOGY                                                      25
  PRACTICAL ELEMENTARY SCIENCE SERIES                           32
  PROCTOR'S (R. A.) WORKS                                       15
  SOUND                                                            8
  STATICS                                                          6
  STEAM, OIL AND GAS ENGINES                                       9
  STRENGTH OF MATERIALS                                           12
  TECHNOLOGY                                                      18
  TELEGRAPHY                                                      12
  TELEPHONE                                                       12
  TEXT-BOOKS OF SCIENCE                                         29
  THERMODYNAMICS                                                   8
  TYNDALL'S (JOHN) WORKS                                        28
  VETERINARY MEDICINE, ETC.                                       24
  WORKSHOP APPLIANCES                                             14
  ZOOLOGY                                                         25

                              CHEMISTRY.

CROOKES.--SELECT METHODS IN CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, chiefly Inorganic. By Sir WILLIAM CROOKES, F.R.S.,
etc. Third Edition, Rewritten and Enlarged. With 67 Woodcuts. 8vo., 21s. net.

FURNEAUX.--ELEMENTARY CHEMISTRY, Inorganic and Organic. By W. FURNEAUX, F.R.G.S., Lecturer
on Chemistry, London School Board. With 65 Illustrations and 155 Experiments. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

GARRETT AND HARDEN.--AN ELEMENTARY COURSE OF PRACTICAL ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. By F. C. GARRETT,
M.Sc. (Vict. et Dunelm.), Assistant Lecturer and Demonstrator in Chemistry, the Durham College
of Science, Newcastle-on-Tyne; and ARTHUR HARDEN, M.Sc. (Vict.), Ph.D., Assistant Lecturer
and Demonstrator in Chemistry, the Owens College, Manchester. With 14 Illustrations. Crown
8vo., 2s.

JAGO.--Works by W. JAGO, F.C.S., F.I.C.

    INORGANIC CHEMISTRY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL. With an
    Introduction to the Principles of Chemical Analysis Inorganic
    and Organic. With 63 Woodcuts and numerous Questions and
    Exercises. Fcp. 8vo., 2s. 6d.

    AN INTRODUCTION TO PRACTICAL INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. Crown 8vo.,
    1s. 6d.

    INORGANIC CHEMISTRY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL. A Manual for
    Students in Advanced Classes of the Science and Art
    Department. With Plate of Spectra and 78 Woodcuts. Crown
    8vo., 4s. 6d. Crown 8vo., 8s. 6d.

MENDELÉEFF.--THE PRINCIPLES OF CHEMISTRY. By D. MENDELÉEFF. Translated from the Russian (Sixth
Edition) by GEORGE KAMENSKY, A.R.S.M., of the Imperial Mint, St. Petersburg; and Edited by
T. A. LAWSON, B.Sc, Ph.D., Fellow of the Institute of Chemistry. With 96 Diagrams and Illustrations.
2 vols. 8vo., 36s.

MEYER.--OUTLINES OF THEORETICAL CHEMISTRY. By LOTHAR MEYER, Professor of Chemistry in the University
of Tübingen. Translated by Professors P. PHILLIPS BEDSON, D.Sc., and W. CARLETON WILLIAMS,
B.Sc. 8vo., 9s.

MILLER.--INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. By W. ALLEN MILLER, M.D., LL.D.
With 71 Woodcuts, Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

MUIR.--A COURSE OF PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY. By M. M. P. MUIR, M.A., Fellow and Prælector in Chemistry
of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. (3 Parts.)

    Part I. Elementary. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

    Part II. Intermediate. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

    Part III.                                   [In preparation.

NEWTH.--Works by G. S. NEWTH, F.I.C, F.C.S., Demonstrator in the Royal College of Science, London.

    CHEMICAL LECTURE EXPERIMENTS. With 230 Illustrations. Crown
    8vo., 6s.

    CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE. With 100
    Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 6s. 6d.

    A TEXT-BOOK OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. With 146 Illustrations.
    Crown 8vo., 6s. 6d.

    ELEMENTARY PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY. With 108 Illustrations and
    254 Experiments. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

OSTWALD.--SOLUTIONS. By W. OSTWALD, Professor of Chemistry in the University of Leipzig. Being
the Fourth Book, with some additions, of the Second Edition of Oswald's 'Lehrbuch der allgemeinen
Chemie'. 8vo., 10s. 6d.

PERKIN.--QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS (INORGANIC AND ORGANIC). By F. MOLLWO PERKIN, Ph.D.

REYNOLDS.--EXPERIMENTAL CHEMISTRY FOR JUNIOR STUDENTS. By J. EMERSON REYNOLDS, M.D., F.R.S.,
Professor of Chemistry, University of Dublin. Fcp. 8vo., with numerous Woodcuts.

    Part I. Introductory. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

    Part II. Non-Metals, with an Appendix on Systematic Testing
    for Acids. Fcp. 8vo., 2s. 6d.

    Part III. Metals, and Allied Bodies. Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

    Part IV. Carbon Compounds. Fcp. 8vo., 4s.

SHENSTONE.--Works by W. A. SHENSTONE, F.R.S., Lecturer on Chemistry in Clifton College.

    THE METHODS OF GLASS-BLOWING. For the use of Physical and
    Chemical Students. With 42 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 1s.
    6d.

    A PRACTICAL INTRODUCTION TO CHEMISTRY. Intended to give a
    Practical acquaintance with the Elementary Facts and
    Principles of Chemistry. With 25 Illustrations. Crown 8vo.,
    2s.

THORNTON AND PEARSON.--NOTES ON VOLUMETRIC ANALYSIS. By ARTHUR THORNTON, M.A., and MARCHANT
PEARSON, B.A., Assistant Science Master, Bradford Grammar School. Medium 8vo., 2s.

THORPE.--Works by T. E. THORPE, C.B., B.Sc. (Vict.), Ph.D., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry
in the Royal College of Science, South Kensington. Assisted by Eminent Contributors.

    A DICTIONARY OF APPLIED CHEMISTRY. 3 vols. 8vo. Vols. I. and
    II., 42s. each. Vol. III., 63s.

    QUANTITATIVE CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. With 88 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo.,
    4s. 6d.

THORPE AND MUIR.--QUALITATIVE CHEMICAL ANALYSIS AND LABORATORY PRACTICE. By T. E. THORPE, C.B.,
Ph.D., D.Sc., F.R.S., and M. M. PATTISON MUIR, M.A. With Plate of Spectra and 57 Woodcuts.
Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

TILDEN.--Works by WILLIAM A. TILDEN, D.Sc. London, F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in the Royal
College of Science, South Kensington.

    A SHORT HISTORY OF THE PROGRESS OF SCIENTIFIC CHEMISTRY IN
    OUR OWN TIMES. Crown 8vo., 5s. net.

    INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY. The
    Principles of Theoretical and Systematic Chemistry. With 5
    Woodcuts. With or without the ANSWERS of Problems. Fcp. 8vo.,
    4s. 6d.

    PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY. The principles of Qualitative Analysis.
    Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

    HINTS ON THE TEACHING OF ELEMENTARY CHEMISTRY IN SCHOOLS AND
    SCIENCE CLASSES. With 7 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s.

WATTS' DICTIONARY OF CHEMISTRY. Assisted by Eminent Contributors. 4 vols. 8vo. Vols. I. and
II., 42s. each. Vol. III., 50s. Vol. IV., 63s.

WHITELEY.--Works by R. LLOYD WHITELEY, F.I.C., Principal of the Municipal Science School, West
Bromwich.

    CHEMICAL CALCULATIONS. With Explanatory Notes, Problems and
    Answers, specially adapted for use in Colleges and Science
    Schools. With a Preface by Professor F. CLOWES, D.Sc. (Lond.),
    F.I.C. Crown 8vo., 2s.

    ORGANIC CHEMISTRY: the Fatty Compounds. With 45 Illustrations.
    Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

                            PHYSICS, ETC.

GANOT.--Works by PROFESSOR GANOT. Translated and Edited by E. ATKINSON, Ph.D., F.C.S.

    ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON PHYSICS, Experimental and Applied.
    With 9 Coloured Plates and Maps, and 1057 Woodcuts, and
    Appendix of Problems and Examples with Answers.
    With 7 Plates, 624 Woodcuts, and an Appendix of Questions.
    Crown 8vo., 7s. 6d.

GLAZEBROOK AND SHAW.--PRACTICAL PHYSICS. By R. T. GLAZEBROOK, M.A., F.R.S., and W. N. SHAW,
M.A. With 134 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo., 7s. 6d.

GUTHRIE.--MOLECULAR PHYSICS AND SOUND. By F. GUTHRIE, Ph.D. With 91 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo., 1s.
6d. Translated by E. ATKINSON, Ph.D., F.C.S., formerly Professor of Experimental Science, Staff
College. With 68 Illustrations. 2 vols., crown 8vo., 3s. 6d. each.

    CONTENTS.--Vol. I.--The Relation of Natural Science to
    Science in General--Goethe's Scientific Researches--The
    Physiological Causes of Harmony in Music--Ice and
    Glaciers--The Interaction of the Natural Forces--The Recent
    Progress of the Theory of Vision--The Conservation of
    Force--The Aim and Progress of Physical Science.

    CONTENTS.--Vol. II.--Gustav Magnus. In Memoriam--The Origin
    and Significance of Geometrical Axioms--The Relation of
    Optics to Painting--The Origin of the Planetary
    System--Thought in Medicine--Academic Freedom in German
    Universities--Hermann Von Helmholtz--An Autobiographical
    Sketch.

HENDERSON.--ELEMENTARY PHYSICS. By JOHN HENDERSON, D.Sc. (Edin.), A.I.E.E., Physics Department,
Borough Road Polytechnic. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

MACLEAN.--EXERCISES IN NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. By MAGNUS MACLEAN, D.Sc., Professor of Electrical
Engineering at the Glasgow and West of Scotland Technical College. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

MEYER.--THE KINETIC THEORY OF GASES. Elementary Treatise, with Mathematical Appendices. By
Dr. OSKAR EMIL MEYER, Professor of Physics at the University of Breslau. Second Revised Edition.
Translated by ROBERT E. BAYNES, M.A., Student of Christ Church, Oxford, and Dr. Lee's Reader
in Physics. 8vo., 15s. net.

VAN 'THOFF.--THE ARRANGEMENT OF ATOMS IN SPACE. By J. H. VAN T'HOFF. Second, Revised, and Enlarged
Edition. With a Preface by JOHANNES WISLICENUS, Professor of Chemistry at the University of
Leipzig; and an Appendix 'Stereo-chemistry among Inorganic Substances,' by ALFRED WERNER, Professor
of Chemistry at the University of Zürich. Translated and Edited by ARNOLD EILOART. Crown 8vo.,
6s. 6d.

WATSON.--Works by W. WATSON, B.Sc., Assistant Professor of Physics in the Royal College of
Science, London; Assistant Examiner in Physics, Science and Art Department.

    ELEMENTARY PRACTICAL PHYSICS: a Laboratory Manual for Use in
    Organised Science Schools. With 120 Illustrations and 193
    Exercises. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

    A TEXT-BOOK OF PHYSICS. With 564 Diagrams and Illustrations.
    Large crown 8vo., 10s. 6d.

WORTHINGTON.--A FIRST COURSE OF PHYSICAL LABORATORY PRACTICE. Containing 264 Experiments. By
A. M. WORTHINGTON, M.A., F.R.S. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

WRIGHT.--ELEMENTARY PHYSICS. By MARK R. WRIGHT, M.A., Professor of Normal Education, Durham
College of Science. With 242 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

           MECHANICS, DYNAMICS, STATICS, HYDROSTATICS, ETC.

BALL.--A CLASS-BOOK OF MECHANICS. By Sir R. S. BALL, LL.D. 89 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

GELDARD.--STATICS AND DYNAMICS. By C. GELDARD, M.A., formerly Scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge.
Crown 8vo., 5s.

GOODEVE.--Works by T. M. GOODEVE, M.A., formerly Professor of Mechanics at the Normal School
of Science, and the Royal School of Mines.

    THE ELEMENTS OF MECHANISM. With 357 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo.,
    6s.

    PRINCIPLES OF MECHANICS. With 253 Woodcuts and numerous
    Examples. Crown 8vo., 6s.

    A MANUAL OF MECHANICS: an Elementary Text-Book for Students
    of Applied Mechanics. With 138 Illustrations and Diagrams and
    188 Examples taken from the Science Department Examination
    Papers, with Answers. Fcp. 8vo., 2s. 6d.

GOODMAN.--MECHANICS APPLIED TO ENGINEERING. By JOHN GOODMAN, Wh. Sch., A.M.I.C.E., M.I.M.E.,
Professor of Engineering in the Yorkshire College, Leeds (Victoria University). With 620 Illustrations
and numerous examples. Crown 8vo., 7s. 6d. net.

GRIEVE.--LESSONS IN ELEMENTARY MECHANICS. By W. H. GRIEVE, late Engineer, R.N., Science Demonstrator
for the London School Board, etc.

    Stage 1. With 165 Illustrations and a large number of
    Examples. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

    Stage 2. With 122 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

    Stage 3. With 103 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 1s.

MAGNUS.--Works by SIR PHILIP MAGNUS, B.Sc., B.A.

    LESSONS IN ELEMENTARY MECHANICS. Introductory to the study of
    Physical Science. Designed for the Use of Schools, and of
    Candidates for the London Matriculation and other
    Examinations. With numerous Exercises, Examples, Examination
    Questions, and Solutions, etc., from 1870-1895. With Answers,
    and 131 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.
        Key for the use of Teachers only, price 5s. 3-1/2d.

    HYDROSTATICS AND PNEUMATICS. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.; or, with
    Answers, 2s. The Worked Solutions of the Problems, 2s.

ROBINSON.--Works by the Rev. J. L. ROBINSON, M.A.

    ELEMENTS OF DYNAMICS (Kinetics and Statics). With numerous
    Exercises. A Text-book for Junior Students. Crown 8vo., 6s.

    A FIRST BOOK IN STATICS AND DYNAMICS. With numerous Examples
    and Answers. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.
        Sold separately: Statics, 2s.; Dynamics, 2s.

SMITH.--Works by J. HAMBLIN SMITH, M.A.

    ELEMENTARY STATICS. Crown 8vo., 3s.

    ELEMENTARY HYDROSTATICS. Crown 8vo., 3s.

    KEY TO STATICS AND HYDROSTATICS. Crown 8vo., 6s.

TARLETON.--AN INTRODUCTION TO THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF ATTRACTION. By FRANCIS A. TARLETON,
LL.D., Sc.D., Fellow of Trinity College, and Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University
of Dublin. Crown 8vo., 10s. 6d.

TAYLOR.--Works by J. E. TAYLOR, M.A., B.Sc. (Lond.).

    THEORETICAL MECHANICS, including Hydrostatics and Pneumatics.
    With 175 Diagrams and Illustrations, and 522 Examination
    Questions and Answers. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

    THEORETICAL MECHANICS--SOLIDS. With 163 Illustrations, 120
    Worked Examples and over 500 Examples from Examination
    Papers, etc. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

    THEORETICAL MECHANICS.--FLUIDS.

THORNTON.--THEORETICAL MECHANICS--SOLIDS. Including Kinematics, Statics and Kinetics. By ARTHUR
THORNTON, M.A., F.R.A.S. With 200 Illustrations, 130 Worked Examples, and over 900 Examples
from Examination Papers, etc. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

TWISDEN.--Works by the Rev. JOHN F. TWISDEN, M.A.

    PRACTICAL MECHANICS; an Elementary Introduction to their
    Study. With 855 Exercises, and 184 Figures and Diagrams.
    Crown 8vo., 10s. 6d.

    THEORETICAL MECHANICS. With 172 Examples, numerous Exercises,
    and 154 Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 8s. 6d.

WILLIAMSON.--INTRODUCTION TO THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF THE STRESS AND STRAIN OF ELASTIC SOLIDS.
By BENJAMIN WILLIAMSON, D.Sc., F.R.S. Crown 8vo., 5s.

WILLIAMSON AND TARLETON.--AN ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON DYNAMICS. Containing Applications to Thermodynamics,
with numerous Examples. By BENJAMIN WILLIAMSON, D.Sc., F.R.S., and FRANCIS A. TARLETON, LL.D.
Crown 8vo., 10s. 6d.

WORTHINGTON.--DYNAMICS OF ROTATION: an Elementary Introduction to Rigid Dynamics. By A. M.
WORTHINGTON, M.A., F.R.S. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

                        OPTICS AND PHOTOGRAPHY.

ABNEY.--A TREATISE ON PHOTOGRAPHY. By Sir WILLIAM DE WIVELESLIE ABNEY, K.C.B., F.R.S., Principal
Assistant Secretary of the Secondary Department of the Board of Education. With 115 Woodcuts.
Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

GLAZEBROOK.--PHYSICAL OPTICS. By R. T. GLAZEBROOK, M.A., F.R.S., Principal of University College,
Liverpool. With 183 Woodcuts of Apparatus, etc. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

WRIGHT.--OPTICAL PROJECTION: a Treatise on the Use of the Lantern in Exhibition and Scientific
Demonstration. By LEWIS WRIGHT, Author of 'Light: a Course of Experimental Optics'. With 232
Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 6s.

                SOUND, LIGHT, HEAT, AND THERMODYNAMICS.

CUMMING.--HEAT TREATED EXPERIMENTALLY. By LINNÆUS CUMMING, M.A. With 192 Illustrations. Crown
8vo., 4s. 6d.

DAY.--NUMERICAL EXAMPLES IN HEAT. By R. E. DAY, M.A. Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

EMTAGE.--LIGHT. By W. T. A. EMTAGE, M.A. With 232 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 6s.

HELMHOLTZ.--ON THE SENSATIONS OF TONE AS A PHYSIOLOGICAL BASIS FOR THE THEORY OF MUSIC. By
HERMANN VON HELMHOLTZ. Royal 8vo., 28s.

MADAN.--AN ELEMENTARY TEXT-BOOK ON HEAT For the Use of Schools. By H. G. MADAN, M.A., F.C.S.,
Fellow of Queen's College, Oxford; late Assistant Master at Eton College. Crown 8vo., 9s.

MAXWELL.--THEORY OF HEAT. By J. CLERK MAXWELL, M.A., F.R.SS., L. and E. With Corrections and
Additions by Lord RAYLEIGH. With 38 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 4s. 6d.

SMITH.--THE STUDY OF HEAT. By J. HAMBLIN SMITH M.A., of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Crown 8vo., 3s.

TYNDALL.--Works by JOHN TYNDALL, D.C.L., F.R.S See p. 28.

WORMELL.--A CLASS-BOOK OF THERMODYNAMICS By RICHARD WORMELL, B.Sc., M.A. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

WRIGHT.--Works by MARK R. WRIGHT, M.A.

    SOUND, LIGHT, AND HEAT. With 160 Diagrams and Illustrations.
    Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

    ADVANCED HEAT. With 136 Diagrams and numerous Examples and
    Examination Papers. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

                     STEAM, OIL, AND GAS ENGINES.

CLERK.--THE GAS AND OIL ENGINE. By DUGALD CLERK, Associate Member of the Institution of Civil
Engineers, Fellow of the Chemical Society, Member of the Royal Institution, Fellow of the Institute
of Patent Agents. With 228 Illustrations. 8vo., 15s.

HOLMES.--THE STEAM ENGINE. By George C. V. Holmes, Whitworth Scholar, Secretary of the Institution
of Naval Architects. With 212 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

NORRIS.--A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE 'OTTO' CYCLE GAS ENGINE. By WILLIAM NORRIS, M.I.Mech.E.
With 207 Illustrations. 8vo., 10s. 6d.

RIPPER.--Works by WILLIAM RIPPER, Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the Sheffield Technical
School.

     STEAM. With 142 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

     STEAM ENGINE THEORY AND PRACTICE. With 438 Illustrations.
     8vo., 9s.

SENNETT AND ORAM.--THE MARINE STEAM ENGINE: A Treatise for Engineering Students, Young Engineers
and Officers of the Royal Navy and Mercantile Marine. By the late RICHARD SENNETT, Engineer-in-Chief
of the Navy, etc.; and HENRY J. ORAM, Senior Engineer Inspector at the Admiralty, Inspector
of Machinery in H.M. Fleet, etc. With 414 Diagrams. 8vo., 21s.

STROMEYER.--MARINE BOILER MANAGEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION. Being a Treatise on Boiler Troubles
and Repairs, Corrosion, Fuels, and Heat, on the properties of Iron and Steel, on Boiler Mechanics,
Workshop Practices, and Boiler Design. By C. E. STROMEYER, Member of the Institute of Naval
Architects, etc. 8vo., 18s. net.

                        BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.

ADVANCED BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. By the Author of 'Rivingtons' Notes on Building Construction'.
With 385 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

BURRELL.--BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. By EDWARD J. BURRELL, Second Master of the People's Palace
Technical School, London. With 303 Working Drawings. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

SEDDON.--BUILDER'S WORK AND THE BUILDING TRADES. By Col. H. C. SEDDON, R.E., late Superintending
Engineer, H.M.'s Dockyard, Portsmouth; Examiner in Building Construction, Science and Art Department,
South Kensington. With numerous Illustrations. Medium 8vo., 16s.

            RIVINGTONS' COURSE OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.

NOTES ON BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Arranged to meet the requirements of the syllabus of the Science
and Art Department of the Committee of Council on Education, South Kensington. Medium 8vo.

    Part I. Elementary Stage. With 552 Woodcuts, 10s. 6d.

    Part II. Advanced Stage. With 479 Woodcuts, 10s. 6d.

    Part III. Materials. Course for Honours. With 188 Woodcuts,
    21s.

    Part IV. Calculations for Building Structures. Course for
    Honours. With 597 Woodcuts, 15s.

                      ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM.

CARUS-WILSON.--ELECTRO-DYNAMICS: the Direct-Current Motor. By CHARLES ASHLEY CARUS-WILSON,
M.A. Cantab. With 71 Diagrams, and a Series of Problems, with Answers. Crown 8vo., 7s. 6d.

CUMMING.--ELECTRICITY TREATED EXPERIMENTALLY. By LINNÆUS CUMMING, M.A. With 242 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo., 4s. 6d.

DAY.--EXERCISES IN ELECTRICAL AND MAGNETIC MEASUREMENTS, with Answers. By R. E. DAY. 12mo., 3s. 6d.

GORE.--THE ART OF ELECTRO-METALLURGY, including all known Processes of Electro-Deposition.
By G. GORE, LL.D., F.R.S. With 56 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

HENDERSON.--Works by JOHN HENDERSON, D.Sc., F.R.S.E.

    PRACTICAL ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM. With 159 Illustrations
    and Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 6s. 6d.

    PRELIMINARY PRACTICAL MAGNETISM AND ELECTRICITY: A Text-book
    for Organised Science Schools and Elementary Evening Science
    Schools. Crown 8vo., 1s.

JENKIN.--ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM. By FLEEMING JENKIN, F.R.S.S., L. and E., M.I.C.E. With
177 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

JOUBERT.--ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM. By G. C. FOSTER, F.R.S., and E.
ATKINSON, Ph.D. With 381 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 7s. 6d.

JOYCE.--EXAMPLES IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING. By SAMUEL JOYCE, A.I.E.E. Crown 8vo., 5s.

LARDEN.--ELECTRICITY FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES. By W. LARDEN, M.A. With 215 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo., 6s.

MACLEAN AND MARCHANT.--ELEMENTARY QUESTIONS IN ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM. With Answers. Compiled
by MAGNUS MACLEAN, D.Sc., M.I.E.E., and E. W. MARCHANT, D.Sc., A.I.E.E. Crown 8vo., 1s.

MERRIFIELD.--MAGNETISM AND DEVIATION OF THE COMPASS. By JOHN MERRIFIELD, LL.D., F.R.A.S., 18mo.,
2s. 6d.

PARR.--PRACTICAL ELECTRICAL TESTING IN PHYSICS AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING: being a Course suitable
for First and Second Year Students and others. By G. D. ASPINALL PARR, Assoc. M.I.E.E., Head
of the Electrical Engineering Department, Yorkshire College, Victoria University. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo.

POYSER.--Works by A. W. POYSER, M.A.

     MAGNETISM AND ELECTRICITY. With 235 Illustrations. Crown
     8vo., 2s. 6d.

     ADVANCED ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM. With 317 Illustrations.
     Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d. With 359 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 12s.

     PROBLEMS AND SOLUTIONS IN ELEMENTARY ELECTRICITY AND
     MAGNETISM. With 67 Illustrations. Cr. 8vo., 2s.

TYNDALL.--Works by JOHN TYNDALL, D.C.L., F.R.S. See p. 28.

                TELEGRAPHY AND THE TELEPHONE.

HOPKINS.--THE TELEPHONE: Outlines of the Development of Transmitters and Receivers. By WILLIAM
J. HOPKINS, Professor of Physics in the Drexel Institute, Philadelphia; Author of 'Telephone
Lines and their Properties,' etc. With 7 Full-page Illustrations and 39 Diagrams. Crown 8vo.,
3s. 6d.

PREECE AND SIVEWRIGHT.--TELEGRAPHY. By Sir W. H. PREECE, K.C.B., F.R.S., V.P.Inst., C.E., etc.,
Engineer-in-Chief and Electrician, Post Office Telegraphs; and Sir J. SIVEWRIGHT, K.C.M.G.,
General Manager, South African Telegraphs. With 267 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

               ENGINEERING, STRENGTH OF MATERIALS, ETC.

ANDERSON.--THE STRENGTH OF MATERIALS AND STRUCTURES: the Strength of Materials as depending
on their Quality and as ascertained by Testing Apparatus. By Sir J. ANDERSON, C.E., LL.D.,
F.R.S.E. With 66 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

BARRY.--RAILWAY APPLIANCES: a Description of Details of Railway Construction subsequent to
the completion of the Earthworks and Structures. By Sir JOHN WOLFE BARRY, K.C.B., F.R.S., M.I.C.E.
With 218 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo., 4s.

LOW.--A POCKET-BOOK FOR MECHANICAL ENGINEERS. By DAVID ALLAN LOW (Whitworth Scholar), M.I.Mech.E.,
Professor of Engineering, East London Technical College (People's Palace), London. With over
1000 specially prepared Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., gilt edges, rounded corners, 7s. 6d.

SMITH.--GRAPHICS, or the Art of Calculation by Drawing Lines,
applied especially to Mechanical Engineering. By ROBERT H. SMITH,
Professor of Engineering, Mason College, Birmingham. Part I. With
separate Atlas of 29 Plates containing 97 Diagrams. 8vo., 15s. Royal 8vo., 36s. With 5 Plates and 188 Illustrations and
     Diagrams in the Text. 8vo., 16s. net.

     ON THE DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSMISSION OF POWER FROM CENTRAL
     STATIONS: being the Howard Lectures delivered at the Society
     of Arts in 1893. With 81 Diagrams. 8vo., 10s. net.

WARREN.--ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION IN IRON, STEEL, AND TIMBER. By WILLIAM HENRY WARREN, Challis
Professor of Civil and Mechanical Engineering, University of Sydney. With 13 Folding Plates
and 375 Diagrams. Royal 8vo., 16s. net.

                  LONGMANS' CIVIL ENGINEERING SERIES.
       Edited by the Author of 'Notes on Building Construction'.

TIDAL RIVERS: their (1) Hydraulics, (2) Improvement, (3) Navigation. By W. H. WHEELER, M.Inst.C.E.
With 75 Illustrations. Medium 8vo., 16s. net.

NOTES ON DOCKS AND DOCK CONSTRUCTION. By C. COLSON, M.Inst.C.E., Deputy Civil Engineer-in-Chief,
Admiralty. With 365 Illustrations. Medium 8vo., 21s. net.

PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF HARBOUR CONSTRUCTION. By WILLIAM SHIELD, F.R.S.E., M.Inst.C.E.,
and Executive Engineer, National Harbour of Refuge, Peterhead, N.B. With 97 Illustrations.
Medium 8vo., 15s. net.

CALCULATIONS IN HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING: a Practical Text-Book for the use of Students, Draughtsmen
and Engineers. By T. CLAXTON FIDLER, M.Inst.C.E., Professor of Engineering, University College,
Dundee.

    Part I. Fluid Pressure and the Calculation of its Effects in
    Engineering Structures. With numerous Illustrations and
    Examples. 8vo., 6s. 6d. net.

RAILWAY CONSTRUCTION. By W. H. MILLS, M.I.C.E., Engineer-in-Chief of the Great Northern Railway
of Ireland. With 516 Illustrations and Diagrams. 8vo., 18s. net.

                         NAVAL ARCHITECTURE.

ATTWOOD.--TEXT-BOOK OF THEORETICAL NAVAL ARCHITECTURE: a Manual for Students of Science Classes
and Draughtsmen Engaged in Shipbuilders' and Naval Architects' Drawing Offices. By EDWARD LEWIS
ATTWOOD, Assistant Constructor, Royal Navy; Member of the Institution of Naval Architects.
With 114 Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 7s. 6d.

WATSON.--NAVAL ARCHITECTURE: A Manual of Laying-off Iron, Steel and Composite Vessels. By THOMAS
H. WATSON, Lecturer on Naval Architecture at the Durham College of Science, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
With numerous Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 15s. net.

                      MACHINE DRAWING AND DESIGN.

     IMPROVED DRAWING SCALES. 6d. in case.

     AN INTRODUCTION TO MACHINE DRAWING AND DESIGN. With 153
     Illustrations and Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

LOW AND BEVIS.--A MANUAL OF MACHINE DRAWING AND DESIGN. By DAVID ALLAN LOW and ALFRED WILLIAM
BEVIS, M.I.Mech.E. With 700 Illustrations. 8vo., 7s. 6d.

UNWIN.--THE ELEMENTS OF MACHINE DESIGN. By W. CAWTHORNE UNWIN, F.R.S.

     Part I. General Principles, Fastenings, and Transmissive
     Machinery. With 304 Diagrams, etc. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

     Part II. Chiefly on Engine Details. With 174 Woodcuts. Fcp.
     8vo., 4s. 6d.

SHELLEY.--WORKSHOP APPLIANCES, including Descriptions of some of the Gauging and Measuring
Instruments, Hand-cutting Tools, Lathes, Drilling, Planeing, and other Machine Tools used by
Engineers. By C. P. B. SHELLEY, M.I.C.E. With an additional Chapter on Milling by R. R. LISTER.
With 323 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo., 5s.

                     MINERALOGY, METALLURGY, ETC.

BAUERMAN.--Works by HILARY BAUERMAN, F.G.S.

     SYSTEMATIC MINERALOGY. With 373 Woodcuts and Diagrams. Fcp.
     8vo., 6s.

     DESCRIPTIVE MINERALOGY. With 236 Woodcuts and Diagrams. Fcp.
     8vo., 6s.

HUNTINGTON AND McMILLAN--METALS: their Properties and Treatment. By A. K. HUNTINGTON, Professor
of Metallurgy in King's College, London, and W. G. McMillan, Lecturer on Metallurgy in Mason's
College, Birmingham. With 122 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 7s. 6d.

RHEAD.--METALLURGY. An Elementary Text-Book. By E. C. RHEAD, Lecturer on Metallurgy at the
Municipal Technical School, Manchester. With 94 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

RUTLEY.--THE STUDY OF ROCKS: an Elementary Text-book of Petrology. BY F. RUTLEY, F.G.S. With
6 Plates and 88 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo., 4s. 6d.

                      ASTRONOMY, NAVIGATION, ETC.

ABBOTT.--ELEMENTARY THEORY OF THE TIDES: the Fundamental Theorems Demonstrated without Mathematics
and the Influence on the Length of the Day Discussed. By T. K. ABBOTT, B.D., Fellow and Tutor,
Trinity College, Dublin. Crown 8vo., 2s.

BALL.--Works by Sir ROBERT S. BALL, LL.D., F.R.S.

     ELEMENTS OF ASTRONOMY. With 130 Figures and Diagrams. Fcp.
     8vo., 6s. 6d.

     A CLASS-BOOK OF ASTRONOMY. With 41 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo.,
     1s. 6d.

DE CAMPIGNEULLES.--OBSERVATIONS TAKEN AT DUMRAON, BEHAR, INDIA, during the Eclipse of the 22nd
January, 1898, by a Party of Jesuit Fathers of the Western Bengal Mission. By the Rev. V. DE
CAMPIGNEULLES, S.J. With 14 Plates. 4to., 10s. 6d. net.

GILL.--TEXT-BOOK ON NAVIGATION AND NAUTICAL ASTRONOMY. By J. GILL, F.R.A.S., late Head Master
of the Liverpool Corporation Nautical College. 8vo., 10s. 6d.

HERSCHEL.--OUTLINES OF ASTRONOMY. By Sir JOHN F. W. HERSCHEL, Bart., K.H., etc. With 9 Plates
and numerous Diagrams. 8vo., 12s.

JORDAN.--ESSAYS IN ILLUSTRATION OF THE ACTION OF ASTRAL GRAVITATION IN NATURAL PHENOMENA. By
WILLIAM LEIGHTON JORDAN. With Diagrams. 8vo., 9s.

LAUGHTON.--AN INTRODUCTION TO THE PRACTICAL AND THEORETICAL STUDY OF NAUTICAL SURVEYING. By
JOHN KNOX LAUGHTON, M.A., F.R.A.S. With 35 Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 6s.

LOWELL.--MARS. By PERCIVAL LOWELL, Fellow American Academy, Member Royal Asiatic Society, Great
Britain and Ireland, etc. With 24 Plates. 8vo., 12s. 6d.

MERRIFIELD.--A TREATISE ON NAVIGATION. For the Use of Students. By J. MERRIFIELD, LL.D., F.R.A.S.,
F.M.S. With Charts and Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 5s.

PARKER.--ELEMENTS OF ASTRONOMY. With Numerous Examples and Examination Papers. By GEORGE W.
PARKER, M.A., of Trinity College, Dublin. With 84 Diagrams. 8vo., 5s. 6d. net.

WEBB.--CELESTIAL OBJECTS FOR COMMON TELESCOPES. By the Rev. T. W. WEBB, M.A., F.R.A.S. Fifth
Edition, Revised and greatly Enlarged by the Rev. T. E. ESPIN, M.A., F.R.A.S. (Two Volumes.)
Vol. I., with Portrait and a Reminiscence of the Author, 2 Plates, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo., 6s. Vol. II., with numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 6s. 6d.

                     WORKS BY RICHARD A. PROCTOR.

THE MOON: Her Motions, Aspect, Scenery, and Physical Condition. With many Plates and Charts,
Wood Engravings, and 2 Lunar Photographs. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d. 6d.

MYTHS AND MARVELS OF ASTRONOMY. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d. I. and II. Crown 8vo., 5s. each. Vol. I.
Cheap Edition. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

THE EXPANSE OF HEAVEN: Essays on the Wonders of the Firmament. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

OTHER SUNS THAN OURS: a Series of Essays on Suns--Old, Young, and Dead. With other Science
Gleanings. Two Essays on Whist, and Correspondence with Sir John Herschel. With 9 Star-Maps
and Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d. With 7 Plates. Fcp. 8vo., 2s. 6d.

NEW STAR ATLAS FOR THE LIBRARY, the School, and the Observatory, in Twelve Circular Maps (with
Two Index-Plates). With an Introduction on the Study of the Stars. Illustrated by 9 Diagrams.
Cr. 8vo., 5s.

THE SOUTHERN SKIES: a Plain and Easy Guide to the Constellations of the Southern Hemisphere.
4to., 5s. 4to., 3s. 6d.

LARGER STAR ATLAS FOR OBSERVERS AND STUDENTS. In Twelve Circular Maps, showing 6000 Stars,
1500 Double Stars, Nebulæ, etc. With 2 Index-Plates. Folio, 15s. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

                       PHYSIOGRAPHY AND GEOLOGY.

BIRD.--Works by CHARLES BIRD, B.A.

     ELEMENTARY GEOLOGY. With Geological Map of the British
     Isles, and 247 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

     ADVANCED GEOLOGY. A Manual for Students in Advanced Classes
     and for General Readers. With over 300 Illustrations, a
     Geological Map of the British Isles (coloured), and a set of
     Questions for Examination. Crown 8vo., 7s. 6d.

GREEN.--PHYSICAL GEOLOGY FOR STUDENTS AND GENERAL READERS. By A. H. GREEN, M.A., F.G.S. With
236 Illustrations. 8vo., 21s.

MORGAN.--ELEMENTARY PHYSIOGRAPHY. Treated Experimentally. By ALEX. MORGAN, M.A., D.Sc., F.R.S.E.,
Lecturer in Mathematics and Science, Church of Scotland Training College, Edinburgh. With 4
Maps and 243 Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

THORNTON.--Works by J. THORNTON, M.A.

     ELEMENTARY PRACTICAL PHYSIOGRAPHY.
       Part I. With 215 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.
       Part II. With 98 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

     ELEMENTARY PHYSIOGRAPHY: an Introduction to the Study of
     Nature. With 13 Maps and 295 Illustrations. With Appendix on
     Astronomical Instruments and Measurements. Crown 8vo., 2s.
     6d.

     ADVANCED PHYSIOGRAPHY. With 6 Maps and 203 Illustrations.
     Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

                 NATURAL HISTORY AND GENERAL SCIENCE.

BEDDARD.--THE STRUCTURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF BIRDS. By FRANK E. BEDDARD, M.A., F.R.S., Prosector
and Vice-Secretary of the Zoological Society of London. With 252 Illustrations. 8vo., 21s. net.

FURNEAUX.--Works by WILLIAM FURNEAUX, F.R.G.S.

     THE OUTDOOR WORLD; or, The Young Collector's Hand-book. Crown 8vo., 6s. net.

HUDSON.--BRITISH BIRDS. By W. H. HUDSON, C.M.Z.S. With 8 Coloured Plates from Original Drawings
by A. THORBURN, and 8 Plates and 100 Figures by C. E. LODGE, and 3 Illustrations from Photographs.
Crown 8vo., 6s. net.

NANSEN.--THE NORWEGIAN NORTH POLAR EXPEDITION, 1893-1896: Scientific Results. Edited by FRIDTJOF
NANSEN. Volume I. With 44 Plates and numerous Illustrations in the Text. Demy 4to, 40s. net.

     CONTENTS: 1. COLIN ARCHER: The Fram--2. J. F. POMPECKJ:
     The Jurassic Fauna of Cape Flora. With a Geological Sketch
     of Cape Flora and its Neighbourhood by FRIDTJOF NANSEN--3.
     A. G. NATHORST: Fossil Plants from Franz Josef Land--4. R.
     COLLETT and F. NANSEN: An Account of the Birds--5. G. O.
     SARS: Crustacea.

    *** The aim of this Report (which will be published in
    English only) is to give, in a series of separate Memoirs, a
    complete account of the Scientific Results of the Norwegian
    Polar Expedition, 1893-1896. The whole work is estimated to
    form five or six Quarto Volumes, which it is hoped will be
    finished in the course of about two years.

STANLEY.--A FAMILIAR HISTORY OF BIRDS. By E. STANLEY, D.D., formerly Bishop of Norwich. With
160 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

                    MANUFACTURES, TECHNOLOGY, ETC.

BELL.--JACQUARD WEAVING AND DESIGNING. By F. T. BELL. With 199 Diagrams. 8vo., 12s. net.

CALDER.--THE PREVENTION OF FACTORY ACCIDENTS: being an Account of Manufacturing Industry and
Accident, and a Practical Guide to the Law on the Safe-guarding, Safe-working and Safe-construction
of Factory Machinery, Plant and Premises. By JOHN CALDER, sometime Her Majesty's Inspector
of Factories for the North of Scotland. With 20 Tables and 124 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 7s.
6d. net.

LUPTON.--MINING. An Elementary Treatise on the Getting of Minerals. By ARNOLD LUPTON, M.I.C.E.,
F.G.S., etc. With 596 Diagrams and Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 9s. net.

MORRIS AND WILKINSON.--THE ELEMENTS OF COTTON SPINNING. By JOHN MORRIS and F. WILKINSON. With
a Preface by Sir B. A. DOBSON, C.E., M.I.M.E. With 169 Diagrams and Illustrations. Crown 8vo.,
7s. 6d. net.

SHARP.--BICYCLES AND TRICYCLES: an Elementary Treatise on their Design and Construction. With
Examples and Tables. By ARCHIBALD SHARP, B.Sc. With 565 Illustrations and Diagrams. Cr. 8vo., 15s.

TAYLOR.--COTTON WEAVING AND DESIGNING. By JOHN T. TAYLOR. With 373 Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 7s.
6d. net.

WATTS.--AN INTRODUCTORY MANUAL FOR SUGAR GROWERS. By FRANCIS WATTS, F.C.S., F.I.C. With 20
Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 6s.

                         HEALTH AND HYGIENE.

ASHBY.--HEALTH IN THE NURSERY. By HENRY ASHBY, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to the Manchester
Children's Hospital, and Lecturer on the Diseases of Children at the Owens College. With 25
Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

BUCKTON.--HEALTH IN THE HOUSE; Twenty-five Lectures on Elementary Physiology. By Mrs. C. M.
BUCKTON. With 41 Woodcuts and Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 2s.

CORFIELD.--THE LAWS OF HEALTH. By W. H. CORFIELD, M.A., M.D. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

NOTTER AND FIRTH.--Works by J. L. NOTTER, M.A., M.D., and R. H. FIRTH, F.R.C.S.

     HYGIENE. With 95 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

     PRACTICAL DOMESTIC HYGIENE. With 83 Illustrations. Crown
     8vo., 2s. 6d.

POORE.--Works by GEORGE VIVIAN POORE, M.D.

     ESSAYS ON RURAL HYGIENE. Crown 8vo., 6s. 6d.

     THE DWELLING-HOUSE. With 36 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 3s.
     6d.

WILSON.--A MANUAL OF HEALTH-SCIENCE: adapted for use in Schools and Colleges.

                         MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Enlarged and
Improved Edition. With 192 Illustrations. 8vo., 25s.

BENNETT.--Works by WILLIAM H. BENNETT, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to St. George's Hospital; Member of
the Board of Examiners, Royal College of Surgeons of England.

     CLINICAL LECTURES ON VARICOSE VEINS OF THE LOWER
     EXTREMITIES. With 3 Plates. 8vo., 6s.

     ON VARICOCELE; A PRACTICAL TREATISE. With 4 Tables and a
     Diagram. 8vo., 5s.

     CLINICAL LECTURES ON ABDOMINAL HERNIA: chiefly in relation
     to Treatment, including the Radical Cure. With 12 Diagrams
     in the Text. 8vo., 8s. 6d.

     ON VARIX, ITS CAUSES AND TREATMENT, WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE
     TO THROMBOSIS: an Address delivered at the Inaugural Meeting
     of the Nottingham Medico-Chirurgical Society, Session
     1898-99. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

BENTLEY.--A TEXT-BOOK OF ORGANIC MATERIA MEDICA. Comprising a Description of the Vegetable
and Animal Drugs of the British Pharmacopoeia, with some others in common use. Arranged Systematically,
and Especially Designed for Students. By ROBERT BENTLEY, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.L.S. With 62 Illustrations
on Wood. Crown 8vo., 7s. 6d.

BRODIE.--THE ESSENTIALS OF EXPERIMENTAL PHYSIOLOGY. For the Use of Students. By T. G. BRODIE,
M.D., Lecturer on Physiology, St. Thomas's Hospital Medical School. With 2 Plates and 177 Illustrations
in the Text. Crown 8vo., 6s. 6d.

CABOT.--Works by RICHARD C. CABOT, M.D., Physician to Out-patients, Massachusetts General Hospital.

     A GUIDE TO THE CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD FOR
     DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSES. With 3 Coloured Plates and 28
     Illustrations in the Text. 8vo., 16s.

     THE SERUM DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASE. With 31 Temperature Charts
     and 9 Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 7s. 6d.

CELLI.--MALARIA, ACCORDING TO THE NEW RESEARCHES. By Prof. ANGELO CELLI, Director of the Institute
of Hygiene, University of Rome. Translated from the Second Italian Edition by JOHN JOSEPH EYRE,
M.R.C.P., L.R.C.S. Ireland, D.P.H. Cambridge. With an Introduction by Dr. PATRICK MANSON, Medical
Adviser to the Colonial Office. 8vo., 10s. 6d.

CHEYNE AND BURGHARD.--A MANUAL OF SURGICAL TREATMENT. With 66
     Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 10s. 6d.               [Ready.

     Part II. The Treatment of the Surgical Affections of the
     Tissues, including the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissues, the
     Nails, the Lymphatic Vessels and Glands, the Fasciæ, Bursæ,
     Muscles, Tendons and Tendon-sheaths, Nerves, Arteries and
     Veins. Deformities. With 141 Illustrations. Royal 8vo.,
     14s.                                                [Ready.

     Part III. The Treatment of the Surgical Affections of the
     Bones. Amputations. With 100 Illustrations. Royal 8vo.,
     12s.

     Part IV. The Treatment of the Surgical Affections of the
     Joints (including Excisions) and the Spine. With 138
     Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 14s.

                  Other Parts are in preparation.

CLARKE.--Works by J. JACKSON CLARKE, M.B. Lond., F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon at the North-west
London and City Orthopædic Hospitals, etc.

     SURGICAL PATHOLOGY AND PRINCIPLES. With 194 Illustrations.
     Crown 8vo., 10s. 6d.

     POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS IN MEDICO-LEGAL AND ORDINARY CASES.
     With Special Chapters on the Legal Aspects of Post-mortems,
     and on Certificates of Death. Fcp. 8vo., 2s. 6d.

COATS.--A MANUAL OF PATHOLOGY. By JOSEPH COATS, M.D., late Professor of Pathology in the University
of Glasgow. Fourth Edition. Revised throughout and Edited by LEWIS R. SUTHERLAND, M. D., Professor
of Pathology, University of St. Andrews. With 490 Illustrations. 8vo., 31s. 6d.

COOKE.--Works by THOMAS COOK, F.R.C.S. Eng., B.A., B.Sc., M.D., Paris.

    TABLETS OF ANATOMY. Being a Synopsis of Demonstrations given
    in the Westminster Hospital Medical School. Eleventh Edition
    in Three Parts, thoroughly brought up to date, and with over
    700 Illustrations from all the best Sources, British and
    Foreign. Post 4to.
      Part I. The Bones. 7s. 6d. net.
      Part II. Limbs, Abdomen, Pelvis. 10s. 6d. net.
      Part III. Head and Neck, Thorax, Brain. 10s. 6d. net.

    APHORISMS IN APPLIED ANATOMY AND OPERATIVE SURGERY. Including
    100 Typical vivâ voce Questions on Surface Marking, etc.
    Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

    DISSECTION GUIDES. Aiming at Extending and Facilitating such
    Practical work in Anatomy as will be specially useful in
    connection with an ordinary Hospital Curriculum. 8vo., 10s.
    6d.

CURTIS.--THE ESSENTIALS OF PRACTICAL BACTERIOLOGY: An Elementary Laboratory Book for Students
and Practitioners. By H. J. CURTIS, B.S. and M.D. Lond., F.R.C.S., late Surgical Registrar,
University College Hospital; formerly Assistant to the Professor of Pathology, University College,
London. With 133 Illustrations. 8vo., 9s.

DAKIN.--A HANDBOOK OF MIDWIFERY. By WILLIAM RADFORD DAKIN, M.D., F.R.C.P., Obstetric Physician
and Lecturer on Midwifery at St. George's Hospital, etc. With 394 Illustrations. Large crown
8vo., 18s. Three Parts. 8vo., £3 4s. 6d.

     THE TONGUE AS AN INDICATION OF DISEASE; being the Lumleian
     Lectures delivered March, 1888. 8vo., 7s. 6d.

     OCCASIONAL PAPERS ON MEDICAL SUBJECTS, 1855-1896. 8vo.,
     12s.

     MEDICINE OLD AND NEW. An Address Delivered on the Occasion
     of the Opening of the Winter Session, 1899-1900, at St.
     George's Hospital Medical School, on 2nd October, 1899.
     Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

DUCKWORTH.--Works by SIR DYCE DUCKWORTH, M.D., LL.D., Fellow and Treasurer of the Royal College
of Physicians, etc.

     THE SEQUELS OF DISEASE: being the Lumleian Lectures, 1896.
     8vo., 10s. 6d.

     THE INFLUENCE OF CHARACTER AND RIGHT JUDGMENT IN MEDICINE:
     the Harveian Oration, 1898. Post 4to. 2s. 6d. By Sir JOHN ERIC ERICHSEN, Bart.,
F.R.S., LL.D. Edin., Hon. M.Ch. and F.R.C.S. Ireland. Illustrated by
nearly 1000 Engravings on Wood. 2 vols. Royal 8vo., 48s.

FOWLER AND GODLEE.--THE DISEASES OF THE LUNGS. By JAMES KINGSTON
FOWLER, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to the Middlesex Hospital and
to the Hospital for Consumption and Diseases of the Chest, Brompton,
etc.; and RICKMAN JOHN GODLEE, M.S., F.R.C.S., Fellow and Professor of
Clinical Surgery, University College, London, etc.; With 160
Illustrations. 8vo., 25s. Crown
     8vo., 12s. 6d.

GOODSALL AND MILES.--DISEASES OF THE ANUS AND RECTUM. By D. H. GOODSALL, F.R.C.S., Senior Surgeon,
Metropolitan Hospital; Senior Surgeon (late House Surgeon), St. Mark's Hospital; and W. ERNEST
MILES, F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to the Cancer Hospital, Assistant Surgeon to the Gordon
Hospital, etc. With Illustrations. (In Two Parts.) Part I. 8vo., 7s. 6d. net.

GRAY.--ANATOMY, DESCRIPTIVE AND SURGICAL. By HENRY GRAY, F.R.S., late Lecturer on Anatomy at
St. George's Hospital. The Fourteenth Edition, re-edited by T. PICKERING PICK, Surgeon to St.
George's Hospital, Inspector of Anatomy in England and Wales, late Member of the Court of Examiners,
Royal College of Surgeons of England. With 705 large Woodcut Illustrations, a large proportion
of which are Coloured, the Arteries being coloured red, the Veins blue, and the Nerves yellow.
The attachments of the muscles to the bones, in the section on Osteology, are also shown in
coloured outline. Royal 8vo., 36s.

HALLIBURTON.--Works by W. D. HALLIBURTON, M.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P., Professor of Physiology in
King's College, London.

    A TEXT-BOOK OF CHEMICAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY. With 104
    Illustrations. 8vo., 28s.

    ESSENTIALS OF CHEMICAL PHYSIOLOGY. With 77 Illustrations.
    8vo., 5s.

LANG.--THE METHODICAL EXAMINATION OF THE EYE. Being Part I. of a Guide to the Practice of Ophthalmology
for Students and Practitioners. By WILLIAM LANG, F.R.C.S. Eng., Surgeon to the Royal London
Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields, etc. With 15 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

LIVEING.--HANDBOOK ON DISEASES OF THE SKIN. With especial reference to Diagnosis and Treatment.
By ROBERT LIVEING, M.A. and M.D., Cantab., F.R.C.P. Lond., etc., Physician to the Department
for Diseases of the Skin at the Middlesex Hospital, etc. Fcp. 8vo., 5s.

LUFF.--TEXT-BOOK OF FORENSIC MEDICINE AND TOXICOLOGY. By ARTHUR P. LUFF, M.D., B.Sc. (Lond.),
Physician in Charge of Out-Patients and Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology in
St. Mary's Hospital. With 13 full-page Plates (1 in colours) and 33 Illustrations in the Text.
2 vols. Crown 8vo., 24s.

NEWMAN.--ON THE DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY AMENABLE TO SURGICAL TREATMENT. Lectures to Practitioners.
By DAVID NEWMAN, M.D., Surgeon to the Western Infirmary Out-Door Department; Pathologist and
Lecturer on Pathology at the Glasgow Royal Infirmary; Examiner in Pathology in the University
of Glasgow; Vice-President, Glasgow Pathological and Clinical Society. 8vo., 8s.

PICK.--SURGERY: a Treatise for Students and Practitioners. By T. PICKERING PICK, Consulting
Surgeon to St. George's Hospital; Senior Surgeon to the Victoria Hospital for Children; H.M.
Inspector of Anatomy in England and Wales. With 441 Illustrations. Medium 8vo., 25s. Fcap.
8vo., 2s. 6d.

QUAIN.--A DICTIONARY OF MEDICINE; Including General Pathology, General Therapeutics, Hygiene,
and the Diseases of Women and Children. By Various Writers. Edited by RICHARD QUAIN, Bart.,
M.D. Lond., LL.D. Edin. (Hon.) F.R.S., Physician Extraordinary to H.M. the Queen, etc. Assisted
by FREDERICK THOMAS ROBERTS, M.D. Lond., B.Sc., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians,
Fellow of University College, etc.; and J. MITCHELL BRUCE, M.A. Abdn., M.D. Lond., Fellow of
the Royal College of Physicians of London, etc. 2 Vols. Medium 8vo., 40s. net.

QUAIN.--QUAIN'S (JONES) ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The Tenth Edition. Edited by EDWARD ALBERT SCHÄFER,
F.R.S., Professor of Physiology in the University of Edinburgh; and GEORGE DANCER THANE, Professor
of Anatomy in University College, London.

  *** The several parts of this work form COMPLETE TEXT-BOOKS OF
  THEIR RESPECTIVE SUBJECTS.

    VOL. I., PART I. EMBRYOLOGY. By E. A. SCHÄFER, F.R.S. With
    200 Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 9s.

    VOL. I., PART II. GENERAL ANATOMY OR HISTOLOGY By E. A.
    SCHÄFER, F.R.S. With 291 Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 12s.
    6d.

    VOL. II., PART I. OSTEOLOGY--ARTHROLOGY. By G. D. THANE. With
    224 Illus. Royal 8vo., 11s.

    VOL. II., PART II. MYOLOGY--ANGEIOLOGY. By G. D. THANE. With
    199 Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 16s.

    VOL. III., PART I. THE SPINAL CORD AND BRAIN. By E. A.
    SCHÄFER, F.R.S. With 139 Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 12s.
    6d.

    VOL. III., PART II. THE NERVES. By G. D. THANE. With 102
    Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 9s.

    VOL III., PART III. THE ORGANS OF THE SENSES. By E. A.
    SCHÄFER, F.R.S. With 178 Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 9s.

    VOL. III, PART IV. SPLANCHNOLOGY. By E. A SCHÄFER, F.R.S and
    JOHNSON SYMINGTON, M.D. With 337 Illustrations. Royal 8vo.,
    16s.

    APPENDIX. SUPERFICIAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. By Professor G.
    D. THANE and Professor R. J. GODLEE, M.S. With 29
    Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 6s. 6d.

SCHÄFER.--THE ESSENTIALS OF HISTOLOGY. Descriptive and Practical. For the Use of Students.
By E. A. SCHÄFER, F.R.S., Professor of Physiology in the University of Edinburgh; Editor of
the Histological Portion of Quain's 'Anatomy'. Illustrated by nearly 400 Figures. Fifth Edition,
Revised and Enlarged. 8vo., 8s. (Interleaved, 10s. 6d.)

SCHENK.--MANUAL OF BACTERIOLOGY. For Practitioners and Students. With especial reference to
Practical Methods. By Dr. S. L. SCHENK, Professor (Extraordinary) in the University of Vienna.
Translated from the German, with an Appendix, by W. R. DAWSON, B.A., M.D., Univ. Dub.; late
University Travelling Prizeman in Medicine. With 100 Illustrations, some of which are coloured.
8vo., 10s. net.

SMALE AND COLYER. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE TEETH, including Pathology and Treatment: a
Manual of Practical Dentistry for Students and Practitioners. By MORTON SMALE, M.R.C.S., L.S.A.,
L.D.S., Dental Surgeon to St. Mary's Hospital, Dean of the School, Dental Hospital of London,
etc.; and J. F. COLYER, L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.D.S., Assistant Dental Surgeon to Charing Cross
Hospital, and Assistant Dental Surgeon to the Dental Hospital of London. With 334 Illustrations.
Large crown 8vo., 15s. Cr. 8vo., 5s.

STEVENSON.--WOUNDS IN WAR: the Mechanism of their Production and their Treatment. By Surgeon-Colonel
W. F. STEVENSON (Army Medical Staff), A.B., M.B., M.Ch. Dublin University, Professor of Military
Surgery, Army Medical School, Netley. With 86 Illustrations. 8vo., 18s.

TAPPEINER.--INTRODUCTION TO CHEMICAL METHODS OF CLINICAL DIAGNOSIS. By Dr. H. TAPPEINER, Professor
of Pharmacology and Principal of the Pharmacological Institute of the University of Munich.
Translated by EDMOND J. MCWEENEY, M.A., M.D. (Royal Univ. of Ireland), L.R.C.P.I., etc. Crown
8vo. 3s. 6d.

TIRARD.--DIPHTHERIA AND ANTITOXIN. By NESTOR TIRARD, M.D. Lond., Fellow of the Royal College
of Physicians; Fellow of King's College, London; Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics
at King's College; Physician to King's College Hospital; and Senior Physician to the Evelina
Hospital for Sick Children. 8vo., 7s. 6d.

WALLER.--Works by AUGUSTUS D. WALLER, M.D., Lecturer on Physiology at St. Mary's Hospital Medical
School, London; late External Examiner at the Victorian University.

     AN INTRODUCTION TO HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. Third Edition, Revised.
     With 314 Illustrations. 8vo., 18s.

     LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY. First Series. On Animal Electricity.
     8vo., 5s. net.

     EXERCISES IN PRACTICAL PHYSIOLOGY. Part I. Elementary
     Physiological Chemistry. By AUGUSTUS D. WALLER and W. LEGGE
     SYMES. 8vo., 1s. net. Part II. in the press. Part III.
     Physiology of the Nervous System; Electro-Physiology. 8vo.,
     2s. 6d. net.

WEICHSELBAUM.--THE ELEMENTS OF PATHOLOGICAL HISTOLOGY. With Special Reference to Practical
Methods. By Dr. ANTON WEICHSELBAUM, Professor of Pathology in the University of Vienna. Translated
by W. R. DAWSON, M.D. (Dub.), Demonstrator of Pathology in the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland,
late Medical Travelling Prizeman of Dublin University, etc. With 221 Figures, partly in Colours,
a Chromo-lithographic Plate, and 7 Photographic Plates. Royal 8vo., 21s. net.

WILKS AND MOXON.--LECTURES ON PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. By Sir SAMUEL WILKS, Bart., M.D., F.R.S.,
President of the Royal College of Physicians, and Physician Extraordinary to H. M. the Queen,
and the late WALTER MOXON, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to, and some time Lecturer on Pathology
at, Guy's Hospital. Third Edition, thoroughly Revised. By Sir SAMUEL WILKS, Bart., M.D., LL.D.,
F.R.S. 8vo., 18s.

                       VETERINARY MEDICINE, ETC.

STEEL.--Works by JOHN HENRY STEEL, F.R.C.V.S., F.Z.S., A.V.D., late Professor of Veterinary
Science and Principal of Bombay Veterinary College. With Coloured Plate and 99 Woodcuts.

SCHREINER.--THE ANGORA GOAT. By S. C. CRONWRIGHT SCHREINER. With 26 Illustrations. With 52
Wood Engravings. 8vo., 7s. 6d.

     THE DOG. With 33 Wood Engravings. 8vo., 6s.

            PHYSIOLOGY, BIOLOGY, BACTERIOLOGY, AND ZOOLOGY.
                  (And see MEDICINE AND SURGERY.)

ASHBY.--NOTES ON PHYSIOLOGY FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS PREPARING FOR EXAMINATION. By HENRY ASHBY,
M.D. Lond., F.R.C.P., Physician to the General Hospital for Sick Children, Manchester; formerly
Demonstrator of Physiology, Liverpool School of Medicine. With 148 Illustrations. 18mo., 5s.

BARNETT.--THE MAKING OF THE BODY: a Children's Book on Anatomy and Physiology. By Mrs. S. A.
BARNETT. With 113 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 1s. 9d.

BEDDARD.--Works by FRANK E. BEDDARD, M.A. Oxon.

     ELEMENTARY PRACTICAL ZOOLOGY. With 93 Illustrations. Crown
     8vo., 2s. 6d.

     THE STRUCTURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF BIRDS. With 252
     Illustrations. 8vo., 21s. net.

BIDGOOD.--A COURSE OF PRACTICAL ELEMENTARY BIOLOGY. By JOHN BIDGOOD, B.Sc, F.L.S. With 226
Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

BRAY.--PHYSIOLOGY AND THE LAWS OF HEALTH, in Easy Lessons for Schools. By Mrs. CHARLES BRAY.
Fcp. 8vo., 1s.

FRANKLAND.--MICRO-ORGANISMS IN WATER. Together with an Account of the Bacteriological Methods
involved in their Investigation. Specially designed for the use of those connected with the
Sanitary Aspects of Water-Supply. By PERCY FRANKLAND, Ph.D., B.Sc. (Lond.), F.R.S., and Mrs.
PERCY FRANKLAND. With 2 Plates and Numerous Diagrams. 8vo., 16s. net.

FURNEAUX.--HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. By W. FURNEAUX, F.R.G.S. With 218 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

HUDSON AND GOSSE.--THE ROTIFERA, or 'WHEEL-ANIMACULES'.

LEUMANN.--NOTES ON MICRO-ORGANISMS PATHOGENIC TO MAN. By Surgeon-Captain B. H. S. LEUMANN,
M.B., Indian Medical Service. 8vo., 3s.

MACALISTER.--Works by ALEXANDER MACALISTER, M.D.

     AN INTRODUCTION TO THE SYSTEMATIC ZOOLOGY AND MORPHOLOGY OF
     VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. With 41 Diagrams 8vo., 10s. 6d.

     ZOOLOGY OF THE INVERTEBRATE ANIMALS. With 59 Diagrams. Fcp.
     8vo., 1s. 6d.

     ZOOLOGY OF THE VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. With 77 Diagrams. Fcp.
     8vo., 1s. 6d.

MOORE.--ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY. By BENJAMIN MOORE, M.A., Lecturer on Physiology at the Charing
Cross Hospital Medical School. With 125 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

MORGAN.--ANIMAL BIOLOGY: an Elementary Text-Book. By C. LLOYD MORGAN, F.R.S., Principal of
University College, Bristol. With 103 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 8s. With 100 Illustrations,
some Coloured. 8vo., 10s. net.

THORNTON.--HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. By JOHN THORNTON, M.A. With 267 Illustrations, some Coloured.
Crown 8vo., 6s.

                         BOTANY AND GARDENING.

AITKEN.--ELEMENTARY TEXT-BOOK OF BOTANY. By EDITH AITKEN, late Scholar of Girton College. With
400 Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

BENNETT AND MURRAY.--HANDBOOK OF CRYPTOGAMIC BOTANY. By ALFRED W. BENNETT, M.A., B.Sc., F.L.S.,
Lecturer on Botany at St. Thomas's Hospital; and GEORGE MURRAY, F.L.S., Keeper of Botany, British
Museum. With 378 Illustrations. 8vo., 16s.

CROSS AND BEVAN.--CELLULOSE: an Outline of the Chemistry of the Structural Elements of Plants.
With Reference to their Natural History and Industrial Uses. By CROSS and BEVAN (C. F. Cross,
E. J. Bevan, and C. Beadle). With 14 Plates. Crown 8vo., 12s. net.

CURTIS.--A TEXT-BOOK OF GENERAL BOTANY. By CARLTON C. CURTIS, A.M., Ph.D., Tutor in Botany
in Columbia University, U.S.A. With 87 Illustrations. 8vo., 12s. net.

DE TABLEY.--THE FLORA OF CHESHIRE. By the late LORD DE TABLEY (Hon. J. BYRNE LEICESTER WARREN,
M.A.). Edited by SPENCER MOORE. With a Biographical Notice of the Author by Sir MOUNTSTUART
GRANT DUFF. With a Map of Cheshire and a Photogravure Portrait. Crown 8vo., 10s. 6d. net.

EDMONDS.--Works by HENRY EDMONDS, B.Sc., London.

     ELEMENTARY BOTANY. With 342 Illustrations. Cr. 8vo., 2s.
     6d.

     BOTANY FOR BEGINNERS. With 85 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo.,
     1s. 6d.

FARMER.--A PRACTICAL INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF BOTANY: Flowering Plants. By J. BRETLAND
FARMER, F.R.S., M.A., Professor of Botany in the Royal College of Science, London. With 121
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

KITCHENER.--A YEAR'S BOTANY. Adapted to Home and School Use. By FRANCES A. KITCHENER. With
195 Illustrations. Cr. 8vo., 5s.

LINDLEY AND MOORE.--THE TREASURY OF BOTANY. Edited by J. LINDLEY, M.D., F.R.S., and T. MOORE,
F.L.S. With 20 Steel Plates and numerous Woodcuts. Two parts. Fcp. 8vo., 12s.

McNAB.--CLASS-BOOK OF BOTANY. By W. R. MCNAB.

     MORPHOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY. With 42 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo.,
     1s. 6d.

     CLASSIFICATION OF PLANTS. With 118 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo.,
     1s. 6d.

SORAUER.--A POPULAR TREATISE ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF PLANTS. By Dr. PAUL SORAUER. Translated by
F. E. WEISS, B.Sc., F.L.S. With 33 Illustrations. 8vo., 9s. net.

THOMÉ AND BENNETT.--STRUCTURAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL BOTANY. By OTTO WILHELM THOMÉ and by ALFRED
W. BENNETT, B.Sc., F.L.S. With Coloured Map and 600 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

TUBEUF.--DISEASES OF PLANTS INDUCED BY CRYPTOGAMIC PARASITES. Introduction to the Study of
Pathogenic Fungi, Slime Fungi, Bacteria and Algæ. By Dr. KARL FREIHERR VON TUBEUF, Privatdocent
in the University of Munich. English Edition by WILLIAM G. SMITH, B.Sc., Ph.D., Lecturer on
Plant Physiology, University of Edinburgh. With 330 Illustrations. Royal 8vo., 18s. net.

WATTS.--A SCHOOL FLORA. For the use of Elementary Botanical Classes. By W. MARSHALL WATTS,
D.Sc. Lond. Cr, 8vo., 2s. 6d.

WEATHERS.--A PRACTICAL GUIDE TO GARDEN PLANTS. Containing Descriptions of the Hardiest and
most Beautiful Annuals and Biennials, Hardy Herbaceous and Bulbous Perennials, Hardy Water
and Bog Plants, Flowering and Ornamental Trees and Shrubs, Conifers, Hardy Ferns, Hardy Bamboos
and other Ornamental Grasses; and also the best kinds of Fruit and Vegetables that may be grown
in the Open Air in the British Islands, with Full and Practical Instructions as to Culture
and Propagation. By JOHN WEATHERS, F.R.H.S., late Assistant Secretary to the Royal Horticultural
Society, formerly of the Royal Gardens, Kew, etc. With 159 Diagrams. 8vo.

                             AGRICULTURE.

ADDYMAN.--AGRICULTURAL ANALYSIS. A Manual of Quantitative Analysis for Students of Agriculture.
By FRANK T. ADDYMAN, B.Sc. (Lond.), F.I.C. With 49 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 5s. net.

COLEMAN AND ADDYMAN.--PRACTICAL AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. By J. BERNARD COLEMAN, A.R.C.Sc., F.I.C.,
and FRANK T. ADDYMAN, B.Sc. (Lond.), F.I.C. With 24 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 1s. 6d. net.

WEBB.--Works by HENRY J. WEBB, Ph.D., B.Sc. (Lond.).

     ELEMENTARY AGRICULTURE. A Text-Book specially adapted to the
     requirements of the Science and Art Department, the Junior
     Examination of the Royal Agricultural Society, and other
     Elementary Examinations. With 34 Illustrations. Crown 8vo.,
     2s. 6d.

     AGRICULTURE. A Manual for Advanced Science Students. With
     100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 7s. 6d. net.

             WORKS BY JOHN TYNDALL, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.

FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE: a Series of Detached Essays, Addresses, and Reviews. 2 vols. Crown 8vo., 16s.

     Vol.

NEW FRAGMENTS. Crown 8vo., 10s. 6d.

    CONTENTS.--The Sabbath--Goethe's 'Farbenlehre'--Atoms,
    Molecules, and Ether Waves--Count Rumford--Louis Pasteur, his
    Life and Labours--The Rainbow and its Congeners--Address
    delivered at the Birkbeck Institution on October 22,
    1884--Thomas Young--Life in the Alps--About Common
    Water--Personal Recollections of Thomas Carlyle--On Unveiling
    the Statue of Thomas Carlyle--On the Origin, Propagation, and
    Prevention of Phthisis--Old Alpine Jottings--A Morning on Alp
    Lusgen.

LECTURES ON SOUND. With Frontispiece of Fog-Syren, and 203 other Woodcuts and Diagrams in the
Text. Crown 8vo., 10s. 6d.

HEAT, A MODE OF MOTION. With 125 Woodcuts and Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 12s.

LECTURES ON LIGHT DELIVERED IN THE UNITED STATES IN 1872 AND 1873. With Portrait, Lithographic
Plate, and 59 Diagrams. Crown 8vo., 5s.

RESEARCHES ON DIAMAGNETISM AND MAGNECRYSTALLIC ACTION; including the Question of Diamagnetic
Polarity. Crown 8vo., 12s.

NOTES OF A COURSE OF NINE LECTURES ON LIGHT, delivered at the Royal Institution of Great Britain,
1869. Crown 8vo., 1s. Crown 8vo., 1s. 6d.

LESSONS IN ELECTRICITY AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION 1875-1876. With 58 Woodcuts and Diagrams. Crown
8vo., 2s. 6d. With 7 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 6s. 6d. net.

HOURS OF EXERCISE IN THE ALPS. With 7 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 6s. 6d. net.

FARADAY AS A DISCOVERER. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

                        TEXT-BOOKS OF SCIENCE.

PHOTOGRAPHY. By Sir WILLIAM DE WIVELESLIE ABNEY, K.C.B., F.R.S. With 105 Illustrations. Fcp.
8vo., 3s. 6d.

THE STRENGTH OF MATERIAL AND STRUCTURES. By Sir J. ANDERSON, C.E. With 66 Illustrations. Fcp.
8vo., 3s. 6d.

RAILWAY APPLIANCES. By Sir JOHN WOLFE BARRY, K.C.B., F.R.S., M.I.C.E. With 218 Illustrations.
Fcp. 8vo., 4s. 6d.

INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. By WILLIAM ALLEN MILLER, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S.
With 72 Illustrations. 3s. 6d.

QUANTITATIVE CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. By T. E. THORPE, C.B., F.R.S., Ph.D. With 88 Illustrations.
Fcp. 8vo., 4s. 6d.

QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS AND LABORATORY PRACTICE. By T. E. THORPE, C.B., Ph.D., F.R.S., and M.
M. PATTISON MUIR, M.A. and F.R.S.E. With Plate of Spectra and 57 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY. By WILLIAM A. TILDEN, D.Sc., London, F.R.S.
With 5 Illustrations. With or without Answers to Problems. Fcp. 8vo., 4s. 6d.

ELEMENTS OF ASTRONOMY. By Sir R. S. BALL, LL.D., F.R.S. With 130 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 6s. 6d.

SYSTEMATIC MINERALOGY. By HILARY BAUERMAN, F.G.S. With 373 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

DESCRIPTIVE MINERALOGY. By HILARY BAUERMAN, F.G.S., etc. With 236 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

METALS: THEIR PROPERTIES AND TREATMENT. By A. K. HUNTINGTON and W. G. MCMILLAN. With 122 Illustrations.
Fcp. 8vo., 7s. 6d.

THEORY OF HEAT. By J. CLERK MAXWELL, M.A., LL.D., Edin., F.R.SS., L. & E. With 38 Illustrations.
Fcp. 8vo., 4s. 6d.

PRACTICAL PHYSICS. By R. T. GLAZEBROOK, M.A., F.R.S., and W. N. SHAW, M.A. With 134 Illustrations.
Fcp. 8vo., 7s. 6d.

PRELIMINARY SURVEY AND ESTIMATES. By THEODORE GRAHAM GRIBBLE, Civil Engineer. Including Elementary
Astronomy, Route Surveying, Tacheometry, Curve-ranging, Graphic Mensuration, Estimates, Hydrography
and Instruments. With 133 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 7s. 6d.

ALGEBRA AND TRIGONOMETRY. By WILLIAM NATHANIEL GRIFFIN, B.D. 3s. 6d. Notes on, with Solutions
of the more difficult Questions. Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

THE STEAM ENGINE. By GEORGE C. V. HOLMES, Secretary of the Institution of Naval Architects.
With 212 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM. By FLEEMING JENKIN, F.R.SS., L. & E. With 177 Illustrations. Fcp.
8vo., 3s. 6d.

THE ART OF ELECTRO-METALLURGY. By G. GORE, LL.D., F.R.S. With 56 Illus. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

TELEGRAPHY. By Sir W. H. PREECE, K.C.B., F.R.S., M.I.C.E., and Sir J. SIVEWRIGHT, M.A., K.C.M.G.
With 267 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

PHYSICAL OPTICS. By R. T. GLAZEBROOK, M.A., F.R.S. With 183 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

TECHNICAL ARITHMETIC AND MENSURATION. By CHARLES W. MERRIEFIELD, F.R.S. 3s. 6d. Key, by the
Rev. JOHN HUNTER, M.A. Fcp. 8vo., 3s. 6d.

THE STUDY OF ROCKS. By FRANK RUTLEY, F.G.S. With 6 Plates and 88 Illustrations Fcp. 8vo., 4s. 6d.

WORKSHOP APPLIANCES, including Descriptions of some of the Machine Tools used by Engineers.
By C. P. B. SHELLEY, M.I.C.E. With 323 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 5s.

ELEMENTS OF MACHINE DESIGN. By W. CAWTHORNE UNWIN, F.R.S., B.Sc., M.I.C.E.

     Part I. General Principles, Fastenings and Transmissive
     Machinery. With 304 Illustrations. 6s.

     Part II. Chiefly on Engine Details. With 174 Illustrations.
     Fcp. 8vo., 4s. 6d.

STRUCTURAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL BOTANY. By OTTO WILHELM THOMÉ, and A. W. BENNETT, M.A., B.Sc.,
F.L.S. With 600 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo., 6s.

PLANE AND SOLID GEOMETRY. By H. W. WATSON, M.A. Fcp. 8vo. 3s. 6d.

                      ADVANCED SCIENCE MANUALS.

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. By the Author of 'Rivington's Notes on Building Construction'. With
385 Illustrations and an Appendix of Examination Questions. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

THEORETICAL MECHANICS. Solids, including Kinematics, Statics, and Kinetics.

HEAT. By MARK R. WRIGHT, Hon. Inter. B.Sc. (Lond.).

LIGHT. By W. J. A. EMTAGE, M.A. With 232 Illustrations. Cr. 8vo., 6s.

MAGNETISM AND ELECTRICITY. By ARTHUR WILLIAM POYSER, M.A. With 317 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 4s.

GEOLOGY: a Manual for Students in Advanced Classes and for General Readers.

HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY: a Manual for Students in advanced Classes of the Science and Art Department.
By JOHN THORNTON, M.A. With 268 Illustrations, some of which are Coloured, and a set of Questions
for Examination. Crown 8vo., 6s.

PHYSIOGRAPHY. By JOHN THORNTON, M.A. With 6 Maps, 203 Illustrations, and Coloured Plate of
Spectra. Crown 8vo., 4s. 6d.

AGRICULTURE. By HENRY J. WEBB, Ph.D., B.Sc. With 100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 7s. 6d. net.

HYGIENE. By J. LANE NOTTER, M.A., M.D., Professor of Hygiene in the Army Medical School, Netley,
Colonel, Royal Army Medical Corps; and R. H. FIRTH, F.R.C.S., late Assistant Professor of Hygiene
in the Army Medical School, Netley, Major, Royal Army Medical Corps. With 95 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

                     ELEMENTARY SCIENCE MANUALS.

    *** Written specially to meet the requirements of the
    ELEMENTARY STAGE OF SCIENCE SUBJECTS as laid down in the
    Syllabus of the Directory of the SCIENCE AND ART DEPARTMENT.

PRACTICAL, PLANE, AND SOLID GEOMETRY, including Graphic Arithmetic. By I. H. MORRIS. Fully
Illustrated with Drawings. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

GEOMETRICAL DRAWING FOR ART STUDENTS. Embracing Plane Geometry and its Applications, the Use
of Scales, and the Plans and Elevations of Solids, as required for the Examinations of the
Science and Art Department. By I. H. MORRIS. Crown 8vo., 1s. 6d.

TEXT-BOOK ON PRACTICAL, SOLID, OR DESCRIPTIVE GEOMETRY. By DAVID ALLAN LOW (Whitworth Scholar).
Part I. Crown 8vo., 2s. Part II. Crown 8vo., 3s.

AN INTRODUCTION TO MACHINE DRAWING AND DESIGN. By DAVID ALLAN LOW. With 153 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AND DRAWING. By EDWARD J. BURRELL. With 308 Illustrations and Working
Drawings. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

AN ELEMENTARY COURSE OF MATHEMATICS. Containing Arithmetic; Euclid (Book I., with Deductions
and Exercises); and Algebra. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

THEORETICAL MECHANICS. Including Hydrostatics and Pneumatics. By J. E. TAYLOR, M.A., B.Sc.
With numerous Examples and Answers, and 175 Diagrams and Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

THEORETICAL MECHANICS--SOLIDS. By J. E. TAYLOR, M.A., B.Sc. (Lond.). By J. E. TAYLOR, M.A.,
B.Sc. (Lond.).

A MANUAL OF MECHANICS. With 138 Illustrations and Diagrams, and 188 Examples taken from Examination
Papers, with Answers. By T. M. GOODEVE, M.A. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

SOUND, LIGHT, AND HEAT. By MARK R. WRIGHT, M.A. With 160 Diagrams and Illustrations. Crown
8vo., 2s. 6d.

METALLURGY: an Elementary Text-Book. By E. L. RHEAD. With 94 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

PHYSICS. Alternative Course. By MARK R. WRIGHT, M.A. With 242 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

MAGNETISM AND ELECTRICITY. By A. W. POYSER, M.A. With 235 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

ORGANIC CHEMISTRY: the Fatty Compounds. By R. LLOYD WHITELEY, F.I.C., F.C.S. With 45 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

INORGANIC CHEMISTRY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL. By WILLIAM A. TILDEN, D.Sc. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

ELEMENTARY INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. By WILLIAM FURNEAUX, F.R.G.S. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

ELEMENTARY GEOLOGY. By CHARLES BIRD, B.A., F.G.S. With Coloured Geological Map of the British
Islands, and 247 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. By WILLIAM FURNEAUX, F.R.G.S. With 218 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

A COURSE OF PRACTICAL ELEMENTARY BIOLOGY.

ELEMENTARY BOTANY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL. By HENRY EDMONDS, B.Sc. With 342 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

STEAM. By WILLIAM RIPPER, Member of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. With 142 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

ELEMENTARY PHYSIOGRAPHY.

AGRICULTURE. By HENRY J. WEBB, Ph.D. With 34 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

                    THE LONDON SCIENCE CLASS-BOOKS.

Edited by G. CAREY FOSTER, F.R.S., and by Sir PHILIP MAGNUS, B.Sc., B.A., of the City and Guilds
of London Institute.

ASTRONOMY. By Sir ROBERT STAWELL BALL, LL.D., F.R.S. With 41 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

MECHANICS.

THE LAWS OF HEALTH. By W. H. CORFIELD, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.P. With 22 Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo.,
1s. 6d.

MOLECULAR PHYSICS AND SOUND. By FREDERICK GUTHRIE, F.R.S. With 91 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

GEOMETRY, CONGRUENT FIGURES. By O. HENRICI, Ph.D., F.R.S. With 141 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

ZOOLOGY OF THE INVERTEBRATE ANIMALS. By ALEXANDER MACALISTER, M.D. With 77 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo.,
1s. 6d.

HYDROSTATICS AND PNEUMATICS. By Sir PHILIP MAGNUS, B.Sc., B.A. With 79 Diagrams.

BOTANY. Outlines of the Classification of Plants. By W. R. MCNAB, M.D. With 118 Diagrams. Fcp.
8vo., 1s. 6d.

BOTANY. Outlines of Morphology and Physiology. By W. R. MCNAB, M.D. With 42 Diagrams. Fcp.
8vo., 1s. 6d.

THERMODYNAMICS. By RICHARD WORMELL, M.A., D.Sc. With 41 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo., 1s. 6d.

                 PRACTICAL ELEMENTARY SCIENCE SERIES.

ELEMENTARY PRACTICAL PHYSIOGRAPHY. (Section I.) By JOHN THORNTON, M.A., Head Master of the
Central Higher Grade School, Bolton. With 215 Illustrations and a Coloured Spectrum. Crown
8vo., 2s. 6d.

ELEMENTARY PRACTICAL PHYSIOGRAPHY. (Section II.). A Course of Lessons and Experiments in Elementary
Science for the Queen's Scholarship Examination. By JOHN THORNTON, M.A. With 98 Illustrations
and a Series of Questions. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

PRACTICAL MATHEMATICS. By A. G. CRACKNELL, M.A., B.Sc. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d.

ELEMENTARY PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY.

ELEMENTARY PRACTICAL PHYSICS.

ELEMENTARY PRACTICAL ZOOLOGY. By FRANK E. BEDDARD, M.A. Oxon., F.R.S., Prosector to the Zoological
Society of London. With 93 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 2s. 6d.

                    OTHER VOLUMES IN PREPARATION.

1. Passages in italics are surrounded by underscores.

2. The word Pharmacopoeia uses an oe ligature in the original.

3. Minor changes were made for the purpose of consistency in the book list at the end, like
adding period, etc.

4. The following misprints have been corrected:
     "sufficiemt" corrected to "sufficient" (page 45)
     Changed "--" to "-" in nitrogen-fixing (page 151)
     Joined words "intel lectual" split over two lines (page 236)
     Missing text "to" added after "incidental"