"If I had, that would not give me the right to tell you," replied Miss Hepburn, clinging desperately
to her stiff dignity, despite the pleading voice and the "dear, dear Heppie," against which,
being one third human, she was not quite proof. It was always difficult not to be beguiled
by Barrie.

"I've only you I can come to," said the girl. "You're the one person in the house except me
who isn't old and dried-up."

This was a stroke of genius, but the genius of instinct, for Barrie had no experience in the
art of cajolery. "Was I named after my mother?"

"Only partly. She was a Miss Ballantree, and her first name was Barbara, I believe; but she
disliked it, and when her husband wished to have the child christened the same, she insisted
on Barribel. It seems that is an old Scottish name also, or Celtic perhaps, for she was Irish,
though I know nothing of her family. But Barribel has always sounded frivolous to me."

"Yet you would never call me Barrie when I begged you to. I wonder if there ever was another
girl who had to make up her own pet name, and then had nobody who would use it except herself?
When I talk to myself I always say 'Barrie,' in different tones of voice, to hear how it sounds.
I try to say it as if I loved myself, because no one else loves me--unless maybe you do; just
a tiny, tiny bit. Do you, Heppie?"

"Of course I have an affection for you," Miss Hepburn returned decorously, half alarmed at
so pronounced a betrayal of her inner emotions, "and naturally your grandmother----"

"Let's not talk about her now," Barrie pleaded. "Was my mother young when she was married?"

"Quite young, I understand--about nineteen."

"Only nineteen--not very much older than I am. And she stood two years of Grandma and this house!"

"Barribel, you forget yourself."

"If I do, it's because I'm thinking about my mother. Twenty--twenty-one; that's what she was
when she--went away!"

"She must have been. Of course, it is not my place to----"

"No, dear Heppie, I know it isn't, so don't, please. Could even you blame her for wanting to
run away from this awful house, and she an Irish girl?"

"She was half American, I have heard."

"Perhaps, for all I know about Americans, that made it even harder for her to stand Grandma--and
everything else. Anyhow, I don't blame her--not one bit."

"What! not for deserting her loving husband and her helpless child?"

"All day I've been wondering if father knew how to show his love for her. He didn't to me.
I can remember that. I used to be afraid of him and glad to escape. Perhaps he made her feel
like that too--oh, without meaning it. I'm sure he was good. But so is Grandma good--horribly
good. There's something about this house that spoils goodness, and turns it to a kind of poison.
It must have been awfully depressing to be married to father if one had any fun in one, and
loved to laugh. As for the 'helpless child,' I dare say I was a horrid little squalling brat
with scarlet hair and a crimson face and a vile temper, that no one could possibly love."

"It is a mother's duty to love her child, in spite of its appearance; and if it has a bad temper,
all the more should she endeavour by prayer and example to eradicate its faults in bringing
it up. At least, so I have always been taught. Personally, of course," Heppie hastened to add,
"I know nothing of motherhood and its duties."

"Then you never played dolls," said Barrie gravely. "I never had but one doll--the porcelain-headed
darling father gave me. Grandma let me keep it because it came from him, and I did love it
dearly! I do still. I learned just how to be a mother, playing with it. I know I shall be a
perfectly sweet mother when I have a child."

"Barribel, you should not say such things. It is most unmaidenly."

"I don't see why," Barrie argued. "Perhaps my mother's people wouldn't let her say such things
when she was a young girl, and then she began to be an actress, and was so busy she never had
time to learn much about children and duty and that sort of thing. But I won't be unmaidenly
any more, dear Heppie--at least, if I can help it--if you'll only do me one great favour."

"What is it?" Miss Hepburn inquired cautiously.

"Tell me what's become of my mother. Oh, you needn't be afraid! Grandma let it out that she's
alive. She's not even old yet--not so very old. You must tell me what's happened to her."

"Nothing creditable, I fear," replied Janet, finding a certain sad pleasure in the sins of
another, so different from her own good self. "She has, I believe, continued to act on the stage."

"I'm sure she must be the greatest success!" exclaimed Barrie.

"As to that, I have no means of knowing. I always skip news of the theatre in reading the papers
aloud to Mrs. MacDonald."

"Oh, just to think that any day I might have seen things about my mother in the newspapers,
and perhaps even her pictures! I wish I'd known! I'd have got at the papers somehow before
they were cremated. Now I understand why Grandma tries to keep them out of my hands."

"There were many reasons for that," said Miss Hepburn, loyal to her employer's convictions
and her own pallid copies of those convictions. "No really nice girl ever reads the newspapers,
or would wish to do so. They are full of wickedness. There is much I have to miss out."

"Do you think my mother has kept her married name for the stage?" Barrie wanted to know.

"That," answered Miss Hepburn almost eagerly, "has been poor Mrs. MacDonald's greatest trial--except
your father's death. To think that the name of her son--the name of his great ancestors--should
be bandied about in the theatres!"

"Then she does call herself MacDonald!"

"I fear that is the case. But now it will be useless asking me any more questions, for I shall
not answer them. Will you let me see you begin your supper?"

"No, dear Heppie, for I'm not hungry; and I want to think. Thank you so much for talking to
me, and being so kind. I believe you'd often like to be kind when you daren't."

Miss Hepburn looked slightly surprised. She had expected to be teased for further information,
rather than thanked cordially for that already doled out. "I try to do my duty both to your
grandmother and you," she returned. "I really must go now, and I shall not have to lock your
door again, as Mrs. MacDonald considers the punishment over. You must be careful to come down
the minute you hear the bell, and not be late for prayers."

"Good-bye, if you must go," said Barrie, following the small, stiff figure to the door. "I--I
wish you'd kiss me, Heppie."

Janet actually started, and a blush produced itself in a way peculiar to her face, appearing
mostly upon the nose, where it lingered rosily at the end. Kisses were not exchanged under
Mrs. MacDonald's roof. Barrie's was a most disquieting suggestion, and sounded as if she had
a presentiment that she was about to die or, at the best, be very ill. Still, there was no
real impropriety in an ex-governess kissing her late pupil; and possibly the desire revealed
a spirit of repentance and meekness on the part of Barribel, which deserved to be encouraged.
Without spoken questions, therefore, Miss Hepburn pecked with her unkissed virgin lips the
firm pink satin of Barrie's cheek. The deed seemed curiously epoch-making, and stirred her
oddly. She was ashamed of the feeling she had, rather like a bird waking up from sleep and
fluttering its wings in her breast. Her nose burned; and she hastened her departure lest Barribel
should notice some undignified difference in manner or expression.

"I shall see you again downstairs in a few minutes," she said hurriedly.

Barrie did not answer, and Miss Hepburn softly shut the door.

Instantly the girl began making a sandwich of the bread and cheese, which she wrapped up in
a clean handkerchief. She would not take the napkin, because that belonged to Grandma. Hanging
up in the wardrobe was a long cloak of the MacDonald hunting tartan, which looked as if it
had been fashioned out of a man's plaid. On each side was a pocket; and into one of these Barrie
slipped her little package. Already made up and lying on the floor of the wardrobe was another
parcel, very much bigger, rolled in dark green baize which might have been a small table cover.
From a shelf Barrie snatched a tam-o'-shanter, also a dark green in colour. Absent-mindedly
she pulled it over her head, and the green brightened the copper red of her hair. Slipping
her arms into the sleeves of the queer cloak, she caught up her bundle, turned down the gas,
and peeped cautiously out into the corridor. No one was there. The house was very still. Grandma's
bell for reading and prayer would not ring yet for twenty minutes or more. The girl tiptoed
out, locked the door behind her, and slipped the key into the pocket with the sandwiches. If
any one came to call her to prayers, it would appear that she had shut herself in and was refusing
to answer.

III

"Car-l-i-s-l-e!" The Caruso voice of a gifted railway porter intoned the word in two swelling
syllables, so alluring in their suggestion to passengers that it was strange the whole train
did not empty itself upon the platform. So far from this being the case, however, not more
than six men and half as many women, one with two sleepy, whimpering children, obeyed the siren
call.

Five of the men looked for porters, and eventually culled them, like stiff-stemmed wayside
plants; but the sixth man had not set his foot on the platform before he was accosted by two
would-be helpers.

What there was about him so different from, and so superior to, his fellow-travellers that
it was visible to the naked eye at night, in a not too brilliantly lighted railway station,
could be explained only by experts in the art of deciding at a glance where the best financial
results are to be obtained.

The man was not richly dressed, was not decked out with watch-chains and scarf-pins and rings,
nor had he a shape to hint that the possession of millions had led to self-indulgence. Many
people would have passed him by with a glance, thinking him exactly like other men of decent
birth and life who knew how to wear their clothes; but railway porters and romantic women (are
there other women?) have a special instinct about men. The two female passengers unhampered
by howling babies looked at him as they went by, and they would instinctively have known, though
even they could not have explained, why the porters unhesitatingly selected this man as prey.

He was not very tall, and not very handsome, and he was not conspicuous in any way: but if
he had been an actor, a deaf and blind audience would somehow have felt with a thrill that
he had come upon the stage. The secret was not intricate: only something of which people talk
a dozen times a day without knowing technically what they mean--personal magnetism. He was
rather dark and rather thin, rather like a conquering soldier in his simple yet authoritative
way of giving orders for what he wanted done. He had eyes which were of an almost startling
blueness in his sunburned face: a peculiarity that made strangers look twice at him sometimes.
If his features hardened into a certain cynical grimness when he thought about things that
really mattered, his smile for things that didn't matter was singularly pleasant.

He did not smile at the porters as he pointed out that, besides his suit-case, he had only
one small piece of luggage in the van, to be taken to his automobile; and there were other
passengers who looked much jollier and more amenable than he: yet it was to him that a girl
spoke as he was about to walk past her, after his chosen porter.

"Oh! Will you please be so very kind as to wait a minute!" she exclaimed.

Her "Oh!" was like a barrier suddenly thrown down in front of him. Of course he stopped; and
if he were not greatly astonished it was only because so many odd things had happened to him
in life, in railway stations and drawing rooms and in all sorts of other places, that it took
a great deal to make him feel surprise, and still more to make him show it.

He was roused to alertness, however, when he saw what manner of girl invited him to "wait a
minute." He had never seen one like her before. And yet, of whose face did hers piquantly remind
him? He had a dim impression that it was quite a celebrated face, and no wonder, if it were
like this one. The only odd thing was that he could not remember whose the first face had been,
for such features could never let themselves be wiped off memory's slate.

The girl was almost a child, apparently, for her hair hung in two long bright red braids over
her extraordinary cloak; and her big eyes were child's eyes. What her figure was like, except
that she was a tall, long-legged, upstanding young creature, no one could judge, not even an
anatomist, because of that weird wrap. As a cloak it was a shocking production--a hideous,
unbelievable contribution to cloakhood from the hands of a mantle-making vandal--but it caught
the man's interest, because before his eyes danced the hunting tartan of the MacDonalds of
Dhrum. Once that particular combination of green, blue, red, brown, purple, and white had flashed
to his heart a signal of warm human love, daring and high romance; but he believed that long
ago his heart had shut against such deceiving signals. Across the way in, he had printed in
big letters "NO THOROUGHFARE," and was unconsciously well pleased with himself because he had
done this, thinking it a proof of mature wisdom, keen insight into his brother man--especially
perhaps his sister woman--and a general tendency toward scientific, bomb-proof modernity, the
triumph of intellect over emotion. And in truth his experiences had been of a kind to change
the enthusiastic boy he once had been into the cynical, hard-headed man he was now. Nevertheless,
as he looked at the girl in the tartan cloak, he heard within himself the war-cry of the clan
MacDonald, "Fraoch Eilean!" and he smelt the heather of the purple isle of Dhrum.

It was many years since he had seen that strangely formed island-shape cut in amethyst against
the gold of sunset sky and sea; but the purple and the gold were unforgettable, even for one
who thought he had forgotten and lost the magic long ago.

She was a beautiful girl in spite of the ugly tam and the bag of a cloak. Her eyes had the
deep light of clear streams that have never reflected other things than trees, shadowing banks
of wild flowers, and skies arching above. There was something quaintly arresting about her,
apart from the odd clothes.

The man stopped. His porter lumbered on sturdily; but that was just as well. The girl had asked
him to wait: so he waited in silence to hear what she would say.

"Will you please look at a thing I want very much to sell?" she began. "Perhaps you'll like
to buy it. Nobody else will--but," she added hastily, "I think you'll admire it."

He looked her steadily in the eyes for a few seconds, and she returned the look, in spite of
herself rather than because she was determined to give him gaze for gaze.

"Why do you ask me to buy what you have to sell?" he answered by a question. "Is it for charity
or the cause of the Suffragettes?"

"Oh, no, it's not for charity!" the girl exclaimed. "And I don't know what you mean by Suffragettes."

The man laughed. "Where have you lived?" he questioned her.

She blushed for an ignorance which evidently struck strangers as fantastic. "Near Carlisle
with my grandmother," she explained; "but she's never let me have friends, or make visits,
or read the papers. I've just left her house now, and I want to go to London. I must go to
London, but I haven't any money, and they won't trust me to pay them for my ticket when I get
some. So I tried to sell a piece of jewellery I have, and nobody would buy it. I thought when
I saw you come out of the train that maybe you would. I don't know why--but you're different.
You look as if you'd know all about valuable things--and whether they're real; and as if you'd
be--not stupid, or like these other people."

"Thank you," he returned, and smiled his pleasant smile. If another man had described such
a meeting with a pretty and apparently ingenuous girl in a railway station at ten o'clock at
night, he would still have smiled, but not the same smile. He would have been sure that the
girl was a minx, and the man a fool. He recognized this unreasonableness in himself; nevertheless,
he had no doubt that his own instinct about the girl was right. She was genuine of her sort,
whatever her strange sort might be; and though he laughed at himself for the impulse, he could
not help wanting to do something for her, in an elder-brother way. For an instant his thoughts
went to the woman who was waiting for and expecting him, the train being late. But quickly
the curtain was drawn before her portrait in his mind.

"You say your grandmother never let you make friends," he said, "yet you seem to believe in
your own knowledge of human nature."

"Because, what you aren't allowed to see or do, you think of a great deal more. Knowledge jumps
into your head in such an interesting way," the girl answered, with an apologetic air, as a
witness might if wishing to conciliate a cross-questioning counsel. "Here's the jewellery I
want to sell. It was my father's, and belonged to his father and grandfather."

She opened her ungloved right hand to reveal a bonnet brooch of beautiful and very ancient
workmanship showing the crest of the MacDonalds of Dhrum set with a fine cairngorm and some
exquisite old paste. It must have come down through many fathers to many sons, for it was at
least two hundred years old.

"You would sell this?" the man exclaimed.

"Well, I must get to London," she excused herself, "and it's the only thing I have worth selling.
I knew you'd see it was good. The others would hardly look at it, except one quite horrid man
who squeezed my hand when I was showing him the brooch, and that made me behave so rudely to
him he went away at once."

"Was your father a MacDonald of Dhrum?" asked the man who had not squeezed her hand, and exhibited
no wish to do so, though his eyes never left her face.

"Yes. Why, do you know our tartan and crest?"

"I--thought I recognized them." For an instant he was tempted to add an item of information
concerning himself, but he beat down the impulse. "If you want money, you can raise something
on this without selling it," he went on. "It would be a pity to part with an heirloom."

"I didn't know I could do that," said the girl. "Of course it would be better. I'm going to
London to find somebody--my mother," she continued, in a different tone. "When I get to her,
she'll give me money, of course, and I can pay you back, if you'll lend me enough now to buy
my ticket--and perhaps a little, a very little, more, because I mayn't find her at once. I
may have to go on somewhere else after London, though I hope not. Will you lend me some money
and keep the brooch till I pay?"

"I might be prepared to do that," said the man slowly. "But you surely don't mean to start
off for London alone, in the night."

"Why not?" she argued. "There's no danger in railway trains, is there? I've never been in one
yet, but I've read lots about them in books, and I think I shall love travelling."

"You've never been in a train!"

"No, because I was born at Grandma's house, and she never travels anywhere, and I've always
lived with her. If my father hadn't died, and my mother hadn't--hadn't been obliged to go away
when I was a baby, probably I should have been just like other girls. But now I suppose I must
be very different, and seem stupid and queer. Every one stared as if I were a wild animal when
I was asking my way to the railway station. But you will lend me the money, won't you, if you
think the brooch is worth it, because one of the porters told me there'd be a train for London
soon?"

"When people are making up their minds to lend money to strangers, they always put a number
of questions first," answered the man gravely, "so I must ask you to excuse me if I catechize
you a little before I engage myself to do anything. Do you expect any one to meet you in London,
Miss MacDonald?"

"Dear me, no!" and she could not help laughing to hear herself called "Miss MacDonald," a dignity
never bestowed on her before. "I don't know any one in London--unless my mother's there."

"Oh, indeed! But London's quite a big place, bigger a good deal than Carlisle, you know, so
you may have some difficulty in finding your mother if you aren't sure of the address."

"She hasn't an address--I mean, I don't know it. But she's an actress on the stage. I think
she must be so beautiful and splendid that almost every one will have heard of her, so all
I will have to say is, 'Please tell me whether Mrs. MacDonald the actress is in London?'"

"Not Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald!" This time he did look surprised.

"Ballantree was her name before she was married," the girl admitted. "And her Christian name's
Barbara. Do you know her?"

"I do, slightly," replied the man. "But I had no idea that she----" He broke off abruptly,
looking more closely than ever at the vivid face under the knitted tam.

"I suppose, if you don't know her very well, she never spoke to you about having a daughter?"
Barrie asked.

"No, she never spoke of it. But look here, Miss MacDonald, as I happen to be an acquaintance--I
daren't call myself a friend--of your mother's, you'd better let me advise you a little, without
thinking that I'm taking a liberty. From what you say, I have the idea that you've not had
time to write Mrs. Bal--I mean, Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald that you're coming to pay her a visit."

"No, I only made up my mind to-day," said Barrie carefully. "Grandma and she aren't good friends,
so my mother and I--don't write to each other. Grandma doesn't like the stage, and as you know
mother, I don't mind telling you she's been perfectly horrid--Grandma, I mean. She let me believe
that mother was dead--just because she's an actress, which I think must be splendid. That's
why I'm running away, and wild horses couldn't drag me back."

"I see. Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald will be taken by surprise when you turn up."

"Yes. It will be like things I've dreamed about and invented to make into story-books--really
interesting story-books such as Grandma wouldn't let me read, for she approves only of Hannah
More. Won't mother be delighted?"

"Just at first her surprise may overcome her natural joy," said the man. "And here is where
my advice comes in. It's this: Let the news be broken to your mother before you try to see
her. That would be the wisest thing. Besides, she mayn't be in London now--probably isn't.
It's past the season there; and Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald is one of those beautiful and successful
people, you know, who are generally found at places in the most fashionable time of the year.
If she's acting, it will be easy to find out where she is from one of the stage papers. She
could be written to, and----"

"No, I want to surprise her!" Barrie persisted. "I want first to see her, for I know she must
be a darling and perfectly lovely; and then I want to say, 'Mother, here's your daughter Barribel,
that you named yourself, come to love you and live with you always.'"

"Er--yes. It sounds charming," replied the man, gazing at a large advertisement of a new food
with quite an odd look in his eyes. "If your heart's set on that scene I've no right to try
and dissuade you; but anyhow, the thing to do is to find out where she is before you start,
for you might get to London only to have to turn round and come back. In August she's more
likely to be in Scotland than in London."

"Oh, is she?" Barrie's face told all her doubt and disappointment. "But I can't wait. I must
go somewhere. If I don't take a train, Mrs. Muir our housekeeper and perhaps Miss Hepburn may
come here looking for me from Hillard House. I'm afraid they found out at prayer-time that
I'd gone, and when they've searched all over the house and garden, they----"

"So you make no bones about running away from home, Miss MacDonald?"

"Neither would you in my place if you and your mother were insulted."

"Perhaps not," the man admitted. "I did something more or less of the sort when I was a year
or two older than you--about seventeen----"

"But I'm over seventeen already," Barrie hastened to boast. "I'm eighteen."

The man smiled at her, his nicest smile. "Eighteen! That's very old, and it's only living the
retired life you have that's kept you young. Still, there it is! You have lived a retired life,
and it's--er--it's left its mark on you. It will take at least some months to efface it, even
under your mother's wing. That means you're a bit handicapped among a lot of people who haven't
lived retired lives. I don't advise you to go back to your grandmother's house, because you
wouldn't anyhow--and besides, you know your own business better than I do; only, of course,
you'll have to write to her. As an acquaintance of your mother's, I'd like to put you with
some kind people for to-night until we can find out for you just where Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald
is. Don't you see that this would be a sensible arrangement, if the people were all right,
instead of starting off on a wild-goose chase?"

"Ye-es, perhaps. And it's very kind of you to take an interest for my mother's sake," said
Barrie, trying not to show her disappointment ungraciously.

"Of course, for your mother's sake," he repeated, with an expressionless expression. "I call
myself Somerled," he added, watching her face as he made his announcement.

She caught him up quickly. "Why, that was the name of the great leader from the North who founded
the Clan MacDonald!"

"You know about him, do you--in spite of the retired life?"

"Not to know would disgrace a MacDonald. And just because I have led a retired life I've had
more time to learn than girls in the world. I know a good deal--really I do. I've read--heaps
of things, behind Grandma's back. Somerled of the Isles is a hero of mine. I didn't know any
one had a right to his name nowadays."

"I dare to bear it, like a Standard, with or without right, though unworthily. Somerled of
the Isles was my hero too."

"Then you're Scottish, like me," said Barrie. "I don't feel related to Grandma's people, and
I don't know anything about mother's. But if you're going to be my friend for her sake, I'm
glad your name is Somerled. It's splendid!"

"Yes, it's splendid to be called Somerled," the man agreed, faintly emphasizing the substituted
word. "And I'm proud to be a Scot, though I've lived half my life in America, and they think
of me there as an American. I've been thinking of myself that way too for seventeen years.
But blood's a good deal thicker than water, and I was born on the island of Dhrum."

"Our island!" exclaimed Barrie. "That makes it seem as if we were related."

"I hoped it would, because a Somerled has a right to the trust of a MacDonald. Will you trust
me to motor you to my friend Mrs. West, who's stopping just now with her brother in a nice
little house just outside Carlisle? It's named Moorhill Farm, and belongs to a Mrs. Keeling,
who has lent it to Mrs. West. I'm going there, and they'll be glad to keep you until we can
learn where you ought to meet your mother. Perhaps you know of Mrs. Keeling and her house?"

Barrie glanced at him half longingly, half doubtfully. She had been looking forward to the
adventure of travelling to London; but if there were less chance of her mother being there
than elsewhere, London was wiped off the map. Still Barrie was loth to abandon her plan. To
do so was like admitting failure--in spite of the motor, which she would love to try. She had
never been within two yards of a motor-car.

"I've seen Mrs. Keeling in church," she said. "She has stick-out teeth. Grandma bows to her.
But how can you tell that Mrs. West will be glad to have me?"

"I'll answer for her hospitality," came Somerled's assurance. "You'll like Mrs. West. She's
a widow, and a sweet woman. Her brother's as nice as she is--Basil Norman. Perhaps you've heard
of them? They write books together--stories about travel and love and motor-cars."

"No," Barrie confessed. "I don't know any authors later than Dickens, unless I see their names
in book-sellers' windows, when I come into town with Heppie--Miss Hepburn. If you don't mind,
I think I'd rather not go to Mrs. West's. I'm afraid of strangers."

"Are you afraid of me, then?"

"No-o. But you're a man. I'm afraid of women. They stare at your clothes, and I know mine are
horrid."

"Mrs. West won't stare. She'll help you buy pretty things to wear when you go to your mother."

"Will she? But how shall I buy them? I haven't any money."

"You'll have money from your father's brooch. Now--will you trust me and come to Mrs. Keeling's
house, as your grandmother bows to her?"

"I'd rather go to a hotel, thank you."

"Nonsense. You can't go alone to a hotel."

"Why?"

"It wouldn't be proper for Miss MacDonald of Dhrum."

"Now you talk like Grandma!"

"I talk common sense. I'll lend you no money to spend in a hotel."

"Then take me to Mrs. West," the girl said, as she might have said, "Take me to the scaffold."

Somerled laughed with amusement and triumph. He was astonishingly interested in his adventure,
astonishingly pleased at the prospect of continuing it. Surely this girl was unique! He believed
in comparatively few things, but he believed in her: for not to do so would have been indeed
ungrateful, as she was ready to prove her implicit belief in him.

"A daughter of Mrs. Bal!" he said to himself as he led Mrs. Bal's daughter to his motor-car.

Poor Barrie would have believed in almost any man who owned a motor.

IV

Aline West and her brother, Basil Norman, were walking slowly up and down the garden path in
front of the old-fashioned manor farmhouse lent to them for ten days by an admiring friend.
They were waiting for Somerled, who had expressed a desire not to be met at the station; and
listening for the teuf-teuf of motors along the distant road prevented Mrs. West from attending
to her brother's suggestions. He had had an inspiration for the new novel they were planning
together, and was explaining it eagerly, for Basil was a born story-teller. Only, he had never
found time for story-telling until lately. He was tremendously happy in his new way of life,
although only a terrible illness which had closed others paths of success had opened this door
for him. It did not matter in the least that Aline got the credit. Not only was he glad that
she should have praise, but he was convinced that it ought to be hers. If she had not thought
of asking him to try his hand at helping her four years ago, when the incentive to live seemed
gone, he might have been driven to put himself out of the way. It was to her, therefore, that
he owed everything; and though success as an author had never come to Aline until after the
first book they wrote together, that, to Basil Norman's mind, was no more than a coincidence,
and he had never ceased to feel that she was generous in letting his name appear with hers
on their title pages.

"I wonder if anything can have happened to him!" Aline murmured.

"Which, Dick or Claud?" her brother asked, puzzled. Dick was to be their hero, Claud the villain.
Basil had been engaged in outlining the two characters for his sister's approval.

"No. Ian Somerled," she explained almost crossly, though her voice was sweet, because it was
never otherwise than sweet. "Either the train's late or----"

"I'd have met him with pleasure," Basil reminded her.

"It would be fatal to do anything he didn't wish," she answered. "He's a man who knows exactly
what he wants, and hates to have people go against his directions in the smallest things."

Norman looked at her rather anxiously through the soft summer darkness that was hardly darkness.
She was walking beside him with her hands clasped behind her back and her head bent. He thought
her extremely pretty, and wondered if Somerled thought so too. But he wished that she did not
care quite so much what Somerled thought. And he was not sure whether she were right about
what Somerled liked.

"I wonder if we understand Somerled?" he asked, as if he were questioning himself aloud. "After
all, we don't know him very well."

"I do," Aline said. "I know him like a book. He's bored to death with everything nearly. Only
I--we--haven't bored him yet. And we must take care not to."

"You could never bore anybody," Basil assured her loyally. "But--I wish you'd tell me something
honestly, old girl."

"Not if you call me that!" She laughed a little. "It wouldn't matter if I were twenty-five
instead of--never mind! I don't want people to think, when they hear you, 'Many a true word
spoken in jest.'"

"Somerled's older than you are, anyhow," Basil consoled her.

"I should think so--ages! Don't forget, dear, I'm only just thirty. I don't look more, do I--truly?"

"Not a day over twenty-eight."

She was disappointed that he did not say less. She had been twenty-nine for years, and had
just begun, for a change, to state frankly that she was thirty. She had never been able to
forgive Basil for being younger than she, but she could trust him not to advertise his advantage.
He really was a dear! She hated herself for being jealous of him sometimes. There were things
he could do, there were thoughts that came to him as easily as homing birds, which were with
her only a pretence: but she pretended eagerly, sincerely, even with prayer. She really yearned
to be at heart all that she tried to make Somerled and other people believe her to be. And
if she tried hard to be genuine all through, surely in time----

"What I want you to tell me is," Basil was going on, "are you in l--how much do you really
care about this man?"

"'This man?'" she repeated. "How serious that sounds; like 'Do you take this man for better,
for worse?' Well, I confess that I should, if he asked me."

"Then you must be in love," her brother concluded. "Because you don't need his money. We make
as many thousands as we used to make hundreds; and it's all yours, really, or ought to be."

She was ashamed of not contradicting him, yet she did not contradict. She could not bear to
put in words what in her heart she knew to be the truth: that their success was due to Basil,
the dreamer of dreams; that her little smartnesses and pretty trivialities could never have
carried them to the place where they now stood together. The worst part of her wanted Basil
to think, wanted every one to think, that she was the important partner, that she was actually
all in the partnership. And it was too miserably easy to produce this impression. Basil was
so unassuming, thought so poorly of himself, realized so little how she leaned upon him in
their work, admired her so loyally!

"Ian Somerled is more of a man than any other man I ever met," she said. "I like him for his
strength and for his indifference. Everything about him appeals to me--even his money; for
making it in the way he did was one expression of his power. Just because they say he'll never
marry, I want----"

"I can understand how a woman may feel about him," Basil said gently, when she suddenly broke off.

"I thought I was perfectly happy the day he asked us to tour Scotland with him in his car;
and when he promised to spend a few days with us here, after he'd got through his business
in London," Aline went on, "it was like honey to hear him say that he didn't want to come if
any one else was to be here. He'd enjoy it only with you and me alone. But ever since I saw
him I've been worrying until I'm quite wretched."

"Worrying about what?"

"Whether he suspects anything."

"Why, what is there to suspect?"

"Then you don't? I'm glad, for you're both men. If you don't suspect, why should he?"

"You'll have to tell me what you're driving at. I shan't have an easy minute till you do--and
that means I can't write. You know I won't give you away."

"A woman wouldn't need telling. That's why I like men! You never guessed, then, that I've been
doing it all? I was the power behind the throne. I made him invite us, and----"

"The deuce you did! Why, I heard him ask you. It was on board ship, and----"

"And before he asked, unless you were deaf, you heard me say I couldn't work up any enthusiasm
about the next book we'd promised our publisher to write because we'd sold our last car and
hadn't time to make up our minds about a new one, and we had no friends to give us good 'tips'
about the country. It was then he asked me what country we wanted to write about, and I said
Scotland."

"Well, yes, I suppose I heard you say all that, now you remind me of it. But it wasn't hinting,
because you didn't know he was going to Scotland for his rest cure."

"Oh, yes, I did. I read it in the New York Sun before we sailed. And when I said we'd accept
his invitation if he'd accept ours, Mrs. Keeling hadn't offered me this house."

"You said she had."

"I was sure she would, because she told me I had only to ask. She was dying to lend it. She
wanted to be able to tell everybody that Aline West and Basil Norman lived in her house for
a fortnight in August. It's a great feather in her cap; and Ian Somerled coming to visit us
here is something she'll never get over as long as she lives. I marconied her an hour after
he'd said that he would come to us after London, and we'd begin our motor tour from Carlisle.
'Twas only taking Time by the forelock to tell him we had been invited. It was bad luck poor
Mrs. Keeling being ill when she got my wire, and she really was a trump to turn out and go
to a nursing home."

"Good heavens, is that what she did? I didn't know----"

"Of course not. But you needn't mind so dreadfully. She's much more comfortable in the nursing
home with the best attention than in her own. And, as a reward, we'll dedicate the book to her."

Aline said this as a queen might have suggested lending her crown to a loyal servitor. Basil
laughed, rather uncomfortably, and his sister looked up hastily into his face, to see if he
were making fun of her. Just then they were drawing near the open windows of the drawing-room,
and the lamplight shone out so brightly through the old-fashioned embroidered lace curtains
that she could see his profile. Hers too was clearly outlined as she lifted her chin anxiously.

The brother and sister were both good to look at, in ways so different that the two made a
striking contrast. Aline knew that in appearance they were a romantic pair of travelling companions.
Every one stared at them when they were together, for he was very tall and dark, more like
an Italian or a Spaniard than an Englishman, and she was gracefully slender and fair, dressing
with a subtle appreciation of herself and all her points. Aline West's and Basil Norman's photographs,
taken together or apart, for newspapers and magazines, were extremely effective, and were considered
by publishers to help the sale of their books. Norman might have sat for Titian's Portrait
of a Gentleman: and there were those who thought Mrs. West not unlike Lady Hamilton. Since
the first expression of this opinion in print, she had changed the fashion of her hair, and
at fancy-dress balls, of which she was fond, she generally appeared as the beautiful Emma.
Certainly the cast of her features and the cutting of her lips faintly recalled those of Romney's
ideal; but Mrs. West's pretty pale face had only two expressions: the one when she smiled--always
the same delicate curving of the lips which lit no beam in the deep-set forget-me-not eyes;
the one when she was grave and wistfully intellectual. She had a beautiful round white throat
which she never hid with a high collar. Her hair was of that sun-in-a-mist gold that eventually
fades almost imperceptibly into gray--if left to itself. But in Aline's case it was improbable
that it would be left to itself. Every morning when dressing she examined it anxiously, even
fearfully, to see whether it was becoming thinner or losing its misty glints of gold. Yet she
knew that her fears were likely to advance the day she dreaded, and tried to shut them out
of her mind.

"Why do you laugh?" she inquired almost irritably, for she was secretly afraid always of missing
something that was seen by others to be amusing. She talked constantly of a sense of humour,
pitying those not blessed with it, but there were moments when she wondered bleakly if she
had it herself. "Have I said anything funny?"

"Only you seem so sure that the dedication will be a panacea for every wound."

"So it will be for Mrs. Keeling."

"I thought you had the idea of dedicating it to Somerled, as he'll be taking us through Scotland
in his car."

"I had. But I feel now it would be a mistake. He couldn't refuse, and one wouldn't be sure
he was pleased. He's so horribly important, you know. I don't mean in his own eyes, but in
the eyes of the world; so nothing we could do for him would really confer an honour. And the
reason he's cynical and bored is because people have fussed over him so sickeningly, more and
more every year, since he began to rise to what he is."

"Yet I don't think he's conceited."

"Not in the ordinary way. But he can't help knowing that he's some one in particular. He began
to like us because we didn't fuss over him, or seem to go out of our way to please him. That's
where I've been clever; for oh, Basil, I'd do anything short of disfiguring myself to win him."

"My poor girl!" Norman exclaimed.

She caught him up hastily. "Why do you call me 'poor?' Do you think I shan't succeed? Do you
think he'll never care?"

"You're a far better judge than I am," her brother answered evasively. "Women feel such things.
We----"

"You feel things, too. You know you do, Basil."

"In an abstract way--not when they're just in front of my eyes."

"He has told me a lot about himself, anyhow." Aline took up a new line of argument, out of
her own thoughts. "That's a good sign. He is so reserved with almost everybody--and he was
even with me till our last evening on shipboard. I was telling him about Jim dying in India
and leaving me alone there, almost a girl; and how there was no money; and how I took up writing
and made a success. Then from that we drifted into talk about success in general; and he told
me his whole story--much more than I'd ever heard from gossip, and a good deal of it quite
different. I took it as the greatest compliment that he should open his heart to me--and a
splendid sign."

"Yes, I suppose it was both," Norman agreed; and Aline had retired too far within the rose-bower
of happy memories to catch a suggestion of doubt in his voice.

"I read once in a newspaper that he'd been a bootblack in Glasgow before he emigrated," Mrs.
West said, as they turned away from the house again in their walk, and set their faces toward
the distant gate. "It wasn't true. His father was a crofter on a little island somewhere near
Skye. I think it's called Dhrum. I never heard of it before; and he had to excuse my ignorance,
because I'm Canadian! It seems that a branch of the MacDonald family own the whole place and
are great people there--lords of the isle. His name was MacDonald too, though his family were
only peasants--clan connections, or whatever they call that sort of thing. I don't understand
a bit, and I didn't like asking him to explain. It was too delicate a subject, though he appeared
to be rather proud of his origin. Scotch peasants are apparently quite different from other
peasants. You'll have to study up the differences and make lots of notes for the book. I'm
no good at anything with dialect, or character sort of parts. You wouldn't think now, though,
that Ian Somerled had ever been a peasant would you? He talked a lot about his father and mother--evidently
he adored them. He said they'd be miracles anywhere out of Scotland, but there were many like
them there. According to him there was nothing they hadn't read or couldn't quote by the yard,
from Burns and Scott back to Shakespeare. That was the way he was brought up, and instead of
wanting him to go on crofting like themselves, they were enchanted because he drew pictures
on their unpainted doors and their whitewashed walls. They saved all their pennies to have
him educated as an artist, and encouraged him--quite different from peasant parents in books.
One day the 'meenister' called, and saw the boy's pictures. He thought them something out of
the ordinary--pictures of castles and cathedrals they were, with people going in and coming
out, and portraits of friends, and historical characters. After that he took a great interest
in Ian, and taught him Latin and the few other things his wonderful parents didn't happen to
know. When Ian was about thirteen or fourteen, the 'meenister' tried to get help for the little
MacDonald from the great MacDonald, a disagreeable, cranky old man with one daughter. They
thought they owned the whole world instead of one tiny island, and the man wouldn't do anything
for the child. He simply poured contempt on 'clan ties.'"

"That doesn't sound like the great folk of Scotland," said Basil, who for weeks had been reading
little else but Scottish history, Scottish fiction, and Scottish poetry, in order to get himself
in the right frame of mind for writing "the book." "I haven't come across a single instance
of their being purse-proud or snobbish."

"These weren't purse-proud, because their purses had nothing in them to be proud of," Aline
explained. "Their branch of the MacDonalds had lost its money and its love of Scotland. Old
Duncan MacDonald was the uncle of the last lord of Dhrum, who had to go away from his island
for good and let his castle to 'aliens'--English people. When the nephew died later, Duncan
inherited, but never lived at Dhrum. He only came there once in a while to visit the tenants
who'd hired the castle from him, if they happened to be people he knew, and would 'do' him
well. He and his daughter were mostly in London, where they had a flat, and prided themselves
on knowing no Gaelic. They took pains to show that they considered the crofter's son a common
brat, and resented the meenister's' expecting them to do anything for his future, just because
his name happened to be MacDonald, and he lived in a hut on a remote point of their island.
Ian didn't lose courage, though; and soon after the great snub he contrived to work his way
somehow to Edinburgh. He wouldn't take the money his father and mother had saved up for him,
because they were old and had been ill, and needed it themselves. But he did all kinds of queer
jobs, and at last walked into the studio of a celebrated artist, saying he wanted to pay for
some lessons. At first the man only laughed, but when he saw Ian's drawings, he was interested
at once. He gave him lessons for nothing, and boasted of his protégé to other artists. It seems
that a talent for both portraiture and architecture is very rare. When Ian was sixteen he won
a big prize for the design of an important building which a lot of prominent architects had
been trying for. Presently it came out that he was only a boy, a boy who could do wonderful
portraits, too, and everybody began taking notice of him and writing enthusiastic praise in
the papers. Some interviewer falsely reported that he'd called himself a cousin of the MacDonald
of Dhrum, and disagreeable Duncan denied the relationship indignantly. He spoke to some one
of Ian's father, who had just then died, as 'an ignorant old hay-cutter,' and the speech was
repeated far and wide. You can imagine Ian Somerled forgetting an insult to his adored father!
He dropped the name of MacDonald from that day, calling himself Somerled; and as he was all
alone in the world--his mother was dead, too, and had never seen his success--he resolved to
make a reputation in another country. Of course that was very young of him. He sees that now.
He crossed to New York in the steerage, and vowed he'd never set foot in Scotland again, or
take back his name of MacDonald, until old Duncan not only openly claimed him as a cousin,
but begged him as a personal favour to return to Scotland."

"That must have seemed like sentencing himself to perpetual banishment," said Basil.

"I don't know. He appears to have had a kind of prophetic faith in his own powers of success.
And he was right in every way. Duncan began to grovel years ago."

In talking of Somerled, Aline had forgotten to listen for sounds of his approach. She was interested
in the story she was telling--more interested than she was usually in the development of her
own plots. But luckily Basil saw to the plot-making nowadays, and she hadn't to worry. "It's
funny," she went on, "that a man who laughs at romance should be one of the most romantic figures
in the world. If you and I wrote up his story, and took him for the hero, all the critics would
say 'how impossible!' But critics will never believe that anything highly romantic or sensational
can happen really. I don't know what their own lives must be like--or what they can think of
the incidents they must see every day in the newspapers! Somerled says the only romantic thing
he ever did was to annex the name of Somerled: but almost every phase of his life would make
a story. Take his success in America, for instance. He wasn't eighteen when he landed as an
immigrant, with nothing in his pocket except what was left of the architectural prize. Most
of that money had gone in giving his father a few last comforts, and putting up some wonderful,
extravagant sort of monuments for both his parents, which Ian designed himself. But he hadn't
been two months in New York when he won a still bigger prize, which came just as he was on
the point of starving! A handful of oatmeal and an apple a day I should call starvation, but
he says it was grand for his health. In six years, at twenty-four, he was not only the greatest
portrait-painter in America, but one of the most successful architects, an extraordinary combination
which has made him unique in modern times. And before he was twenty-eight came that big 'coup'
of his, which he calls a 'mere accident that might have happened to any fool'--the buying of
a site for a new town in Nevada, where he meant to build up a little city of beautiful houses,
and finding a silver mine. Of course, it wasn't an 'accident.' It was the spirit of prophecy
in him which has always carried him on to success--that, and his grit and daring and enterprise
and general cleverness. Oh, Basil, if you could have heard him telling me these things that
last night on the Olympic--leaning back in his deck-chair, smoking cigarette after cigarette
(I was smoking too. I hate it; but I think he likes a woman to smoke and be a man's pal), the
moonlight shining on his face, showing his eyes half shut, and talking in his quietest way,
as if he were dreaming it all over again, or speaking to himself! I hardly breathed, till he
broke off suddenly and laughed in quite a shy sort of way, ashamed of being 'egotistical,'
though he hadn't praised himself at all. The flowery things I've said are mine. He even apologized!
I felt I'd never had so great a compliment in my life. It seemed too good to be true that such
a man should have opened his heart to me. But when his invitation for Scotland came, it--it
set the seal of reality on the rest. Do you know, I can't help believing he made more than
he need of his business in London; that the real truth was he wanted to stay there without
us, and see how much he missed me. Now he's coming to accept our invitation, a day sooner than
he meant to at first. Something tells me the reason why. I shall know for sure to-night, when
I see him. He didn't want us to meet him at the station. But that was perhaps because--I couldn't
have gone very well without you, and maybe----"

"I see! I'm to make myself scarce and leave you alone in the garden!"

"Not yet, dear. Only when we hear the car actually stopping at the gate. There'll be plenty
of time then. And if you don't mind----"

"Of course, I don't mind," said Basil. He felt that he was blushing under the cover of darkness,
and was thankful Aline could not see. Why the blush, he could not have explained. Was it for
his sister, because she was managing her love affairs with a famous man in this energetic,
businesslike way, and jumping eagerly at conclusions? Or was it for himself, because he was
selfish and jealous of the new interest in Aline's life, which would--if it ended as she hoped--take
her away from him and break their partnership?

He almost wished to accept the latter explanation. He would rather be disappointed in himself
than think meanly--oh, ever so little meanly--of Aline.

Their partnership, begun when he was in the depths, regarding his life as practically finished,
had given him the greatest happiness he had ever known. Memory flashed away at lightning speed
over their travels together, their adventures. Somerled's wife would not write novels. And
deep in his heart Basil knew that Aline's soul was not in the books, as his was. He would not
acknowledge this difference between them, but he knew it was there. In old days, when Aline
had written alone, she had always chosen some subject that loomed large in public interest
at the moment, whether she herself cared about it or not, hoping to "come in on the wave."
Just because she had not really cared her scheme of work had not given her success. So it had
been with the idea of their first book written together. Aline had wanted to plan out something
to do with motoring, about which every one was keen just then. She had proposed to combine
business with a cure for her brother; and when she had failed to think of a "good plot on the
right lines," he had made a suggestion which flashed into his head. The joy of motoring, the
wonder of travel, both new to Basil, had intoxicated him. He wrote as one inspired, for the
sheer love of writing and telling what he had seen and felt. And the world, catching the thrill
of his joy, had shared it.

He did not say this to himself now, did not realize the truth of it, and did not even believe
that he could go on writing stories and succeeding without Aline. Only, he knew that he loved
his work for itself, and she did not. That the light of his life would be gone without it,
whereas she would be glad to stop working and be idle as the admired wife of a celebrity and
a millionaire. In this he felt a vague injustice of fate which depressed him--a rare state
of mind for Basil Norman, to whom for four years the world had been a happy and magically beautiful
dwelling-place.

"I hear a car now!" he exclaimed.

"It's his!" she answered. "I heard the siren when his chauffeur sounded it going out of the
garage. It's different from any others that pass along this road. Good-bye for a little while,
dear. You're so kind to me! Wish me luck."

"I wish Somerled luck," he said, trying to laugh, as he turned and marched quickly off toward
the house.

Aline quite understood. He meant that Somerled would be lucky to get her. That was nice of
him, and like him, too, for Basil was as gallant and chivalrous to his sister as a lover. Yet--she
was sorry that he hadn't wished her luck in so many words.

She walked toward the gate. The car had stopped.

V

Mrs. Keeling's place, lent to her much-admired authors, had a very pretty gate. It was approached
from the garden way, through an arbour thickly hung with roses and honeysuckle. It seemed to
Aline West, as she went alone to meet Somerled, that night distilled a special perfume in the
dew-filled cups of the flowers, sweet as unspoken love. She felt that she was on the threshold
of happiness. It was the first step that counted. If she met Somerled in the right spirit,
with the right word and the right look ... in this perfumed star-dusk and stillness, when they
had not seen each other for days ... and he knew she had been waiting here for him, thinking
of him ... and he saw that she had put on the dress he liked so much on shipboard, the one
she had worn the last night, when he told her his life-story ... might not the thing that she
desired happen? She encouraged herself by saying, "Why not?" and reminding herself that she
was an attractive woman. Lots of men had been in love with her--not the right ones, but that
was a detail. Why not Ian Somerled? He was a man, after all, like others.

He was at the gate already ... she almost ran.

"Hail, the conquering hero!" she cried to him, laughing.

He opened the gate. But it was not he who came in. He was opening it for some one else--a woman,
a girl, something tall and feminine, anyhow. It was wrapped in a cloak. It had a flat pancake
on its head for a hat. What could it be, and mean? The idea darted into Aline's mind that there
had been an accident on the way here from the station; that perhaps Somerled had nearly or
quite run over this creature--or her dog--or something.

"Hello, Mrs. West!" he answered her cheerfully. "I've got to you at last, and I've brought
a visitor for the night. I've given my guarantee that you'll make her welcome."

The light of Aline's joy went out like a ray of moonlight swallowed up by a marauding cloud.
She did not in the least understand what had happened, or what were the obligations to which
he had committed her; but in any case the lute she had tuned had a rift in it, a big, bad rift,
and it could make no music to-night. She felt suddenly at her worst instead of her best, as
if she had tumbled off a bank of flowers in her prettiest frock into a bog. She longed to be
cold and snappy and disagreeable, as a wife may safely be to a husband when he has blundered,
and as she had often been to Jim in his brief day; but Somerled was not her husband, and certainly
never would be unless she minded her "p's and q's" like a good and very clever little angel
with unmeltable butter in its smiling mouth. So she shrieked, "Hang it!" and even worse, with
her whole heart, and said with her lips, in a charming voice, "Why, of course! I shall be delighted
to welcome any friend of yours, and so will Basil. I love surprises."

It was a short arbour, and as they all three came out of it, Mrs. West and Somerled and the
wrapped-up thing with the pancake hat--the chauffeur following with a suit-case--Aline's eyes
made the most of the starlight, that she might read the mystery and know the worst. The worst
was very bad. Under the stars the girl looked a radiant beauty, and so young, so young! How
was the man going to account for her? Was there still hope?

"I told you what Mrs. West would say!" exclaimed Somerled. "This is Miss MacDonald, a daughter
of Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald."

"Oh!" said Aline. "How interesting! I'm delighted to meet her." She held out her hand, and
the girl, who had not yet spoken a word, put hers into it.

There was no real reason why "I'm delighted to meet her" wasn't precisely the nicest thing
to say in the circumstances, but somehow as a greeting it hadn't quite the right ring, Aline
herself felt. And she was sorry, because she wanted to be entirely satisfactory to Somerled
in every way, in all situations, no matter how trying, and thus perhaps save the ship. Why
not? Many men of thirty-four were bored with girls, and Somerled must have been bored by them
already in their thousands. Still, something that lay deep down within herself was sad and
anxious. A daughter of the beautiful and almost notorious Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald! If he
weren't in love with the girl, perhaps he had had a desperate love affair with the mother.

"I'd no idea that Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald had any children," Aline went on, as she shook
a supple, satiny hand which wore no glove.

"She's only got me," said the girl, "and she doesn't know she's got me yet. At least, she may
have forgotten."

Somerled broke out laughing. "You'll puzzle Mrs. West," he said, with a good-natured, amused,
and proprietary air which stabbed Aline's feelings as with little sharp pins. No, whatever
else he might be, he was not bored. "We'll have to do a lot of explaining by and by, indoors."

"Oh, yes," Barrie agreed. And then, plunging into her task, "He found me in the railway station.
I've run away from home, and he wouldn't let me go to a hotel. Don't you really mind? Because----"

"Of course I don't mind." Aline rose bravely to the occasion. "It sounds wildly romantic, like
most things that contrive to happen to Mr. Somerled, although he says he's ceased to believe
in romance. Have you known each other long?"

"Only to-night," replied Barrie. And Somerled began to see that, as he had said, there certainly
would have to be a lot of explaining. It almost seemed complicated. Nevertheless, he felt that
he had done the only thing possible, and so far from having regrets, he had a curious sense
of elation that was boyish. He wanted to see what was going to happen next. He felt as if by
some rather nice accident he had been inveigled into playing a new game.

"I've known Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald ever since her first famous tour through America some
ten or twelve years ago," he said. "You'll be amused, Mrs. West, to hear in what a queer way
I ran across her daughter to-night."

"Yes, indeed, no doubt," answered Aline, as they walked toward the house. She was forcing herself
to cheer up a little. His tone in speaking of the actress didn't sound like the tone of a man
in love. And men of his type, who had been run after and spoilt, surely didn't fall in love
at sight. It was going to prove no more than an annoying incident, this bringing home of a
strange girl, who mightn't be so desperately pretty, anyhow, in a bright light. To-morrow the
creature would be packed off to her mother or some one; and in a day or two more Somerled and
Basil and she--Aline--would start off on their heavenly trip as if nothing had happened.

But Barrie was even prettier in the lamplight of the hall and drawing-room than she had been
in the silver vagueness of starlight. Aline tried to think that she was the weirdest frump
in the world, and absolutely impossible as a fascinator; but she knew that the weirdness would
be superficial to the eye of Man. The thing was to hurry her away in all her frumpiness.

Aline brought them into the low-ceiled drawing-room which, with her own hands, she had made
beautiful with many flowers in honour of Somerled's coming. She and Basil had been here for
several days, while Somerled attended to business in London, and she had been looking forward
to her friend's comments upon this drawing-room. She had imagined his exclaiming: "You've made
it look like yourself!" But the girl had spoiled her effects. Somerled merely said, "What a
pretty, old-fashioned room! The green wall is a becoming background." And when he uttered this
comment it was at his vagabond he looked, not at his hostess.

Barrie was rather remarkable against that green. She glanced around, evidently in rapt admiration
of everything she saw. Her eyes were very bright and big, her young, red lips a little apart.
"Silly thing, gaping with her mouth open!" Aline relieved her feelings by saying to herself.

"Oh, it's so beautiful here, and Mrs. West's dress is so lovely," the girl said; "it makes
me feel I must take off this horrid cloak and tam, not to be a blot. May I take them off?"
she asked Aline, turning frank admiration on her, as one turns on a searchlight.

Aline would have liked to think of some reason for saying "no," such as a draught, or an immediate
departure for upstairs; but even if the excuse had been valid enough, it would have been of
no use, for without awaiting permission, which she took as a matter of course, the weird creature
had whipped off her green pancake and was throwing back her cloak. "Not that my dress isn't
nearly as bad," she apologized, sighing. "I have never seen such a pretty room as this."

It was really nothing wonderful by way of a room: a little oak panelling; faded green brocade
walls; some nice old pastels; furniture of the Stuart period; pretty bright chintz; a few old
Chelsea figures on the mantel and in a cabinet; quantities of red and white roses in Chinese
bowls. Aline ached to snap, "If you've never seen anything as pretty as this, where have you
lived?" But that was not the way of Somerled's ideal woman. It would have been better if the
stupid thing had praised Mrs. West's looks, thus riveting Somerled's eyes and appreciation;
but all her silly admiration seemed to be for the dress and the room. Little brute! Incapable
of calling another female pretty, when a man was present. Just what one would expect of an
actress's daughter, especially that actress, if half one heard of "Mrs. Bal" were true.

Aline was inclined to believe that Barrie MacDonald had purposely posed herself under a hanging
lamp, so as to show off her hair when suddenly uncovered. The daughter of an actress, with
the dramatic instinct in her blood! But the idea did not seem to occur to Somerled, experienced
as he was, disillusioned as he thought himself. At least there was nothing cynical in the expression
of his face.

"Do let me help you with your cloak," she said to Barrie, dimly hoping that the man would contrast
her exquisitely corseted figure in its dress by Lucille with the crude, untrained outlines
clothed in blue serge. She was not so tall as Barrie as they stood together, she discovered,
and she wanted the girl to sit down. "You must both have something to eat," she went on, pulling
the old-fashioned bead embroidered bell rope; and tears were close and hot behind her eyes,
remembering how she had planned the little supper for herself and Somerled--and Basil, who
hardly counted. "Or would you like to see your rooms first? One shall be made ready directly
for Miss MacDonald. I suppose her luggage has come in with yours?"

"I have only a--a parcel," Barrie meekly confessed, feeling three times a worm, even a Laidly
Worm. It was odd how this sweet-faced blond woman, with blue eyes and a halo of fair hair and
a gentle smile, contrived--of course without meaning it--to make one feel the meanest, shabbiest
thing cumbering a beautiful world! "I wonder if I'm going to like men better than women?" she
thought.

"Ah, a parcel," repeated Aline daintily, as an incredibly neat maid answered the call of the
beaded bell. "Moore," Mrs. West went on, "this young lady, Miss MacDonald, will spend the night.
I think she might have the room of the red Chinese chintz at the end of my corridor. Please
have it made ready as soon as possible, and----"

"Oh, is your name Muir?" exclaimed Barrie delightedly. "That's the name of our housekeeper
at Hillard House. Perhaps you're related, though I never heard of Mrs. Muir having any daughters
or nieces."

The maid, deftly taking the cue from her mistress pro tem., put into her impersonal gaze the
coldness of a whole glacier as her eyes moved from defect to defect of Barrie's costume. The
tone of that "Ah, a parcel," was unmistakable, and she knew exactly what Mrs. West thought
of Miss MacDonald. "I am sorry, miss, but I do not think, I am related to your housekeeper,"
she replied; and Aline determined to give her a blouse or half a dozen handkerchiefs. She really
was a most intelligent person. So intelligent was she that she knew by the feeling in her bones
exactly how much Mrs. West wanted to get Miss MacDonald out of the drawing-room and into the
Chinese room, which would be the most unbecoming in the house to a red-haired person. "I can
take the young lady up now, if you wish, madam," she continued, "for the room is in order--only
to bring towels and hot water."

Barrie looked pleadingly at Somerled. "I am quite clean," she said. "I washed at home before
I started. And I'm so hungry."

Her appeal to him as a tried and trusted friend waked up something in Somerled which he had
not known existed. Whatever it was stirred and was soft and warm in the region of his heart.

"I'm sure Mrs. West doesn't want to send you away," he said. And he could have said nothing
more tactless. "I, too, am comparatively spotless," he went on, protecting his protégée by
putting himself on her level, "and superlatively hungry. We shall both be delighted to accept
your invitation to supper." He laughed, and Barrie gave him a grateful, understanding glance.
He felt as if she were a wonderfully pretty doll which had somehow come alive after he had
bought and rescued it from an upper shelf in an unworthy toy-shop--a dear, delightful, untamed
doll which now belonged to him; and he was not sure that he wanted to let anybody else play
with it until he had begun to tire a little of its tricks himself. Of course he'd tire in time;
but there would not be time for tiring, because the doll must soon be packed off and sent to
its mother.

"Tell Mr. Norman that Mr. Somerled has come, and that we're ready for supper," said Aline to
Moore. The eyes of mistress and maid met, and for an instant they were social equals.

Basil Norman was a man who had odd thoughts and enjoyed them. For this reason he did not weary
of his own society, for he never quite knew what he would think next. When he came to the door
and pushed it open, he half believed that he was dreaming the tall, beautiful, badly dressed
girl with torrents of red hair. People in real life did not wear their hair in torrents. Perhaps
she was a ghost who went with the house, and he had never happened to see her before. He wondered
if the others had noticed her yet.

"How are you, Somerled?" he inquired, not taking his eyes off the apparition. It was looking
at him, too, almost anxiously, as if it were wondering whether he would be friend or foe; but,
of course, it did not speak.

"All right. Very glad to see you both again--and to be here," Somerled answered.

"Miss MacDonald," announced Aline, thin-lipped.

"So you have a name?" said Basil to Barrie. "Was it given to you in dreamland or the spirit-world?"
Then she knew at once that he was not a foe, but a friend.

"Fairyland," she replied, beaming on him. "I was in fairyland to-day. If I hadn't been there,
I shouldn't be here." She could answer her own late question now, with practical certainty.
She was going to like men better than women! Her mother, of course, would be an exception.

VI

It was a delicious little supper that Mrs. West had ordered in Somerled's honour, yet for some
mysterious reason, thoroughly understood only by Aline, nobody did justice to it or enjoyed
it much. Perhaps there was thunder in the air, which upset the nerves of every one, even the
nerves of Moore, who spilt bouillon on Miss MacDonald's sleeve. This was the explanation which
occurred to Basil; and certain it was that the sky had suddenly clouded over, hiding all the stars.

"I do hope we're not going to have rain for our trip," he remarked, more for the sake of something
to say than because, even if rain came, it were likely to last. "It's just the ticklish time
of the month for weather, you know: to-morrow we shall have the new moon."

"The heather moon!" Barrie said softly, looking out of the open window at the purple night,
purple as heather.

"What do you mean by a heather moon?" asked Basil, interested. "It sounds sweeter than honeymoon."

"It's the sweetest moon of the year," the girl answered. "The moon when all the most beautiful
things ought to happen to the people who are worthy of them--and the honeymoon can't come till
afterward. I've always wanted something romantic to happen to me in the heather moon; yet nothing
ever has, so far. It couldn't, at Grandma's!"

"But you haven't explained the heather moon," Basil reminded her.

"Don't you really know?" She opened her eyes very wide as she smiled at him in a friendly,
childlike way; and Basil and Somerled forgot that there was a Mrs. West in the room. It was
a momentary lapse of memory, but Aline felt it electrically. She was enraged at Basil, and
disgusted with Barrie, though merely grieved with Somerled.

"There's a minx for you!" thought Moore, who was plain, and had been chosen by Mrs. Keeling
because her teeth stuck out more than the lady's own.

"Wait! I believe, as a good Scotsman, I can guess," said Somerled. "The heather moon's the
moon of August, the moon when the heather's in its prime of bloom."

"Yes!" cried Barrie, joyous that it should be he, her first friend, the friend of her mother,
who had solved the puzzle. "That's it: and it's the moon for falling in love. That's why the
honeymoon has to come afterward." Then, seeing that Mrs. West was looking at her with a look
that might mean astonishment or disapproval, she blushed. It was queer, but for a minute that
pretty, quite young woman--if widows could be called quite young--had an expression almost
like Grandma's.

"Oh, I do hope I haven't said anything horrid?" Barrie appealed from one to another. "You see,
I never dared say anything at all about love before Grandma or Heppie, but it is talked about
so much in books, I thought I might mention it in company. I'm sorry if I've not been maidenly,
which Miss Hepburn is always telling me I'm not."

"I suspect most maidens think a good deal about love whether or no they talk of it, don't they,
Norman?" said Somerled.

"How should I know?" Basil asked.

Both men were different from their everyday selves to-night. They seemed self-conscious.

"Why, it's your business to know. You write novels. Or do you leave all the love parts to your
sister?"

"I suppose widows may talk as much as they like about love," said Barrie reflectively, "having
had it and passed it by."

The creature was pretending to take for granted that widows were poor, passée things who had
lived their lives and could have no more personal interest in heather moons or honeymoons!
Mrs. West grew pale, and was angry with herself for caring. Barrie made her feel faded--a "back
number." She told herself that if she could not get rid of this girl the first thing to-morrow,
she should be ill.

"You must ask your mother these questions, and she'll answer them better than I can," Aline
said in her pretty voice, with her gentle smile.

Already she had heard from Barrie and from Somerled something of the girl's story, and knew
that through family misunderstandings mother and daughter had been separated for years. "You
must be so impatient to see her!" she went on.

"I am," said Barrie.

"I know Sir George Alexander a little," Aline answered. "He may take a curtain-raiser of ours;
and it's occurred to me to telegraph him in the morning, as soon as the post-office opens.
He'll be able to let us know where Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald's acting. We won't trust to the
stage papers alone. It would be a pity to keep this child in suspense a minute longer than
necessary. Don't you think it's a good plan, Mr. Somerled?"

"Very," he agreed. It was a good plan. And it would be a pity to keep the child in suspense.
The pretty doll must be packed up and sent away where it belonged, whereupon everything would
go on as before. And the heather moon would begin to shine gold on purple, for the trip through
bonny Scotland, which he had planned. He had been looking forward to the tour, not with keen
enthusiasm indeed, but with interest. He had been satisfied with the companions he had chosen,
and the fact that they wanted to see Scotland had given him an incentive for taking the rest
cure he had been imperatively ordered, in his native land rather than elsewhere. Once, long
ago, self-exiled at the age of Barrie MacDonald, he had passionately yearned for his "ain countree,"
and often regretted the boyish vow he was too proud and obstinate to break. But years had passed
now since Duncan MacDonald and his daughter Margaret visited America to find themselves worth
knowing only as kinsfolk of the despised peasant. Accepting the situation because of its advantages
and his necessities, the old man had ignored the past and "made up" to the young millionaire
artist. Ian's sense of humour had been so tickled that, to his own surprise, he had laughed
and forgotten his youthful rancour. It struck him as distinctly funny that he had ever taken
old Duncan's waspishness seriously enough to make vows of any sort because of it. And he saw
that indirectly he owed fortune to the haughty lord of Dhrum. It had amused Somerled a good
deal and pleased him a little that "his highness" (as he called the great one) should implore
the "peasant brat" to become tenant of Dunelin Castle for an unlimited term of years; that
Duncan should chat to newspaper men of his "distinguished relative Ian MacDonald, who had won
fame under the very suitable nom de guerre of Somerled"; and that "Cousin Ian" should be pressed
to meet "Cousin Margaret." It was a queer world, and nobody in it was queerer than one's self.
So Somerled had felt when, just because the miracle had happened to free him of his vow, he
no longer pined to gaze upon his native Highlands. He felt at home and happy enough in America;
and if being "happy enough" wasn't quite the beautiful state he had pictured as a boy, it was
full of interest. He had taken Dunelin Castle off its owner's hands at a high yearly rent,
in order that no rich and vulgar Cockney should become the tenant, but he had never stayed
there, though once, even to have the right of entrance would have seemed a fairy dream. There
were no such things as fairy dreams for him since he had thoroughly grown up, because in the
process of becoming a millionaire he had ceased to believe in any kind of dreams. Friendships
and sympathies he had vainly longed for in his poverty could be his for the asking or even
without the asking now; and that was the reason he did not feel they were worth having. He
had no use in his heart for little brothers and sisters of the rich, and in his experienced
hardness he was sometimes unjust to kindly people. But he had liked the novels of Aline West
and Basil Norman before he met the two popular Canadian authors on shipboard; and learning
that they planned to write a "Scotch book," it had occurred to him that they might all three
go about sight-seeing together. His rest cure had ceased to bore him in prospect; he had thought
with some pleasure of showing Aline Dunelin Castle and the island of Dhrum. Suddenly, however,
Aline's own words damped the prospect as with a douche of cold water.

She was perfectly right, too. It would be a very good plan to place the waif he had picked
up as soon as possible in the care of a mother, even such an extraordinary, incredible mother
as Mrs. "Bal" MacDonald: a good plan for the girl's sake, and for everybody's sake, because
it was arranged to start for Scotland the day after to-morrow. Still, Barrie's impromptu ode
to the heather moon had for a moment irradiated his mind with a light such as had not shone
for Somerled on land or sea since he had become rich enough to afford the most expensive lighting.
Then as quickly it had died down. He saw himself spinning agreeably through Scottish scenes
with Mrs. West and her brother, and suddenly, treacherously, he felt that to spin agreeably
was not enough to satisfy him, that it was unworthy of wondrous golden light on purple hills
of high romance. He wanted something more, something altogether different, and the plans which
had contented him looked dull as ditchwater in the fading glamour. He himself looked dull.
Aline looked dull, and for a moment he almost disliked her sweet blue eyes, her pretty, ever
gentle smile, behind which must lurk some true feeling, or she could not write those delicately
charming books.

"And don't you think, too," Aline urged kindly, "that we ought to put Miss MacDonald's poor
grandmother out of her misery? I might write a note to--Hillard House, I think she said?--explaining--er--what
has happened, as well--as well as I could? Let me see, what would be best? Oh, I could say
that by accident her granddaughter had met a guest of mine, a friend of Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald's;
that she wasn't to worry, because, though her granddaughter refused to return, we would see
that the child reached her mother safely, by to-morrow night if possible. I can mention Basil,
and say we are the writers. If she has heard of us, that may relieve the poor lady's mind."

"Grandma hasn't heard of you, I'm sure," said Barrie, "unless you write religious books; but
she won't need her mind relieved. While I was with her, I think she considered it her duty
to take strict care of me; but now I've gone my own way, she'll see it was predestined. It
was just the same with a Dresden china teapot she inherited. She didn't approve of it because
it was too gay, but she always washed it herself because it was her father's. When it broke
in spite of her, she wouldn't have it mended, and told Heppie to throw the pieces away."

"Nevertheless, I must write, and send the letter to Hillard House by hand," Aline insisted.
"If I didn't do that I should not be able to sleep." She spoke with fervour, for she felt that
she must have two strings to her bow. If "Mother" failed, she must be able to fall back on
"Grandma."

VII

Barrie meant to be up and dressed before any one else in the house, but she lay awake until
long after midnight, an unprecedented thing for her, and in consequence slept late, making
up her accustomed nine hours.

Usually she fell asleep at ten or soon after, and jumped briskly out of bed at seven, waked
only by her eager desire for renewed life, in a perfectly new day which no one else had ever
seen yet. This morning it was a repeated knocking at the door which mingled with her dreams
and shook her out of them. What door could it be? Where was she? the girl wondered for a dazed
instant. Then Moore appeared with a breakfast-tray.

"Mrs. West said not to wake you for early tea," she explained with a glacial coldness worthy
of Hillard House. "Madam and the two gentlemen are having breakfast out of doors in the summer-house;
and when you get up, miss, I advise you to draw your curtains well across the windows or you
may be seen."

Barrie wished that she too were having breakfast in the summer-house, and thought it mistaken
kindness on the part of Mrs. West not to have her called. But, from Aline's point of view,
there was no mistake. "I have let the child sleep," she explained to Somerled and Basil. "It
is such a child, isn't it? And when she wakes up there may be a wire in answer to mine, which
went before eight."

When ten o'clock struck and still the telegram had not arrived, Aline asked herself if she
oughtn't to go and call on old Mrs. MacDonald, who had deigned to take no notice of her tactfully
expressed letter. Just then, however, Somerled's chauffeur was seen hovering in the flowery
distance. He had brought two stage papers which his master had sent him out to buy. Aline was
not pleased that Somerled had thought it necessary to get information on his own account. She
would have preferred that he should trust to her; but she tried to think that perhaps he too
was secretly tired of the girl and wanted to be rid of her. While he was glancing through the
first paper, Moore glided into the summer-house with a brick-coloured envelope on a silver
tray. It was addressed to Aline, and she opened it quickly, glad to be ahead of Ian with news.
Then she found herself confronting an unexpected difficulty. "Mrs. B. M. trying new play small
towns; will open Edinburgh in five or six days." With something like a gasp, Aline stopped
on the brink of reading the telegram aloud. Who would have thought of this?

Her brain worked quickly. She didn't want Somerled to know that "Mrs. Bal" was so near. He
might--make some ridiculous proposal about the girl--Heaven alone knew what! Men were capable
of anything. The troublesome creature must really go back to her grandmother at once. Mrs.
Bal could easily come to Carlisle and collect her--like lost luggage--if she cared to be burdened
with such luggage. If only Aline could find some excuse to make Somerled put down that paper
and forthwith go into the house!

"Is your telegram from Sir George?" he inquired calmly, looking up from the paper which she
longed to snatch.

For half a second she hesitated, and then said, "No. It's not what I expected." This was almost
true.

Basil was gazing at her with solicitude. He thought that she had turned pale. "No bad news
from any one, I hope, dear?" he asked.

"It is annoying," she replied with reserve, and crumpled up the telegram. "I was stupid to
let Moore go--I must send an answer. Mr. Somerled, it would be too good of you to look for
a form on the desk in the drawing-room."

"Shan't I----" began Basil.

"I must ask your advice, meanwhile, about what I'm to say," she cut him short. Somerled put
down the paper on the rustic seat, got up with alacrity, and started for the house. He would
be back in three or four minutes, and not one of those minutes ought to be wasted. "Don't bother
with questions," she said to Basil, "but if you love me, make those theatrical papers disappear
before Mr. Somerled can read them. I'm going to change my mind and follow him into the house
to write my telegram. I'll keep him a while talking. If he comes looking for his papers, I
want them to be gone. I depend on you!"

Without waiting for Basil's promise, she darted away in order to intercept Somerled before
he could finish his errand in the drawing-room. Of course, it would be easy for him to buy
more papers, but before he could get them, Aline was hoping to have maneuvered the embarrassing
Miss MacDonald out of the house. She counted that Ian would be long in finding the forms, because
men never could find the simplest things when told to look for them; but Somerled was an exception,
and she only just caught him on the threshold. "After all, I want your advice instead of Basil's,"
she said. "Do sit here where we shall be quiet, and let me consult you." She patted the arm
of a big chintz-covered sofa invitingly, and as she sat down Ian followed suit. Still she did
not know what on earth to say to him. She hoped for an inspiration at the last instant, as
Basil had taught her to do in arranging a difficult situation between hero and heroine. She
wanted to play heroine now with Somerled as hero. Oh, how much she wanted it!

She took a long breath which must bring that inspiration at the end of it, if inspiration were
to be of use. And it came at command, as things good or bad do come if intensely desired. But
it was such a thoroughly objectionable inspiration that she hardly dared snap at it as she
wished, for Aline was not malicious, and disliked malice and all uncharitableness as she disliked
smearing her pink and white fingers with ink. Still, no alternative idea occurred to her, and
Somerled was waiting. In desperation she had to take what offered, excusing herself to herself
with every word she spoke. Yet through all she could not help thinking that she was clever,
that she had marvellous presence of mind, and that she was displaying an inventive faculty
which would have surprised Basil, though, of course, he must never know, because men were often
as idiotically conscientious about little things as they were unscrupulous about big ones.

"The telegram that came was from Mrs. MacDonald, the child's grandmother," she heard herself
explaining, not forgetting, in her mental confusion, to rub in the impression of Barrie's unfledged
youth. "I was surprised at not hearing, but this wire is an answer to my letter. The old lady
goes into no particulars, but she says: 'Gravest reasons why my granddaughter should not join
her mother. Hope you in person will bring her back to me.' Now, dear Mr. Somerled, the little
girl is your protégée. It's for you to say what's to be done with her."

Somerled did not reply at once. He sat thinking, his hands thrust deep in his pockets, making
a jingling noise with keys or silver, which in her present mood got upon Aline's nerves extraordinarily.
She felt that if he did not stop jingling and begin to speak she should scream. If he asked
to see the telegram, she was prepared to say that she had torn it up, as an excuse not to show
it to Basil, on second thoughts the affair appearing to be Somerled's business. Somerled did
not, however, make the request, and Aline was spared an extra fib, at which she was unreasonably
pleased.

"Well?" she controlled herself to murmur, instead of screaming.

"I should feel a traitor to give the girl up," he said. "In fact, I can't do it unless she
agrees. I promised not even to advise her that she ought to go back. She trusted me when I
brought her here."

"Shall I have a little talk with her?" Aline suggested, and never had her voice been so kind
and sweet. Indeed, in her trembling hope, she was willing to be sweet and kind--with limitations.

Somerled thought again for a minute, jingling more horribly than ever. Then, just at screaming-point
once more for Aline, he said decidedly, "No, thank you. From what Miss MacDonald's told us,
it's natural her grandmother should think there are grave objections to Mrs. Bal as a guardian;
but the old lady's two generations at least behind the age. Youth's at the prow nowadays, and--a
mother's a mother, anyhow. We'll have to give Mrs. Bal a chance to do the maternal act----"

"She may be far, far away, even in America--or Australia," Aline objected. "And even if----"

"Oh, Mr. Somerled, mother's coming to Edinburgh!" cried a voice at the long window, and Barrie
appeared, waving a newspaper.

The one unforeseen thing had happened. The vagabond had strayed into the summer-house and beguiled
Basil. Aline knew too well what excuse he would make if accused: "Why, you didn't tell me she
wasn't to look at the papers!"

"I've seen the name, 'Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald,'" the detestable girl went on, pushing into
the room without asking permission. "She's going to 'open,' as the paper expresses it, in a
new play called 'The Nelly Affair,' on Monday night at the Lyceum Theatre. Next Monday! Nearly
a week from now! How can I wait--what shall I do till then?"

It was to Somerled that she appealed. She made him feel that the responsibility was his. And
it was a bad moment to feel this, because of Mrs. West's telegram from Grandma. He got up from
the sofa, still jingling the money in his pockets. Looking down at Aline he saw only her profile
and an ear as deeply pink as coral under a loop of blond hair. Evidently she too was feeling
the situation. Good of her to take an interest! She really was good. She had asked his advice.
Now he would ask hers.

"Mrs. West and I will talk over a plan I have for you," he said to the girl.

"Is it your plan--or hers?" asked Barrie anxiously.

"It will be both by the time you hear it," he answered, with a reassuring smile.

Aline humoured him. "Run away and play, little girl, till the plan is cooked," she gayly cried.
"Play with my brother."

Barrie backed out, feeling as if she had been half smothered with a perfumed pillow.

"Do you guess my plan?" asked Ian.

"I wonder?" Aline murmured. She could not have spoken aloud just then.

"It's this. Why shouldn't we take her with us in the car to Edinburgh? We've lots of room."

She had known that this would come. All she had done had only hastened the catastrophe. "That
poor old lady," she stammered. "I can't help sympathizing--being a little sorry for her. Isn't
she, then, to be considered--after bringing up the girl?"

"You think," he said reflectively, "that she ought to be consulted?"

"Oh, I do!"

"Very well. Then I'll go and have it out with her myself."

"The telegram!" thought Mrs. West, her ears more coraline than ever. "After all," she faltered,
"perhaps it would bring about complications. She might resort to--to something legal. Fancy
if she sent the police to get back her granddaughter."

Somerled laughed and said nothing. He was not in a mood for argument.

"He won't go," Aline thought. "Thank Heaven, he hates bother."

This was true of Somerled as a rule; but his rules had exceptions.

VIII

So this was the garden where that strange flower of girlhood had budded and blossomed. All
at once Barrie, in her quaintness, became a readable riddle to Somerled.

The two gates in the high wall were kept bolted, but there was a jangling bell for each, the
gate for visitors (it was almost supererogatory), and the gate for tradesmen and servants.
An elderly and sullenly astonished woman opened the visitors' gate for Somerled, and made of
her lean form a barrier lest he should try to pass. But she being narrowly built, on somewhat
Gothic lines, and the gateway being broad, Somerled saw past the flying buttresses of her skirts
into the background. And it was this background that explained in a flash why the girl knew
less of life than a bird which has learned to use its wings; also the reason why she could
never return to waste her young years behind the garden wall of Hillard House. The thought
came into Somerled's mind that it would be interesting to show her the world she had never
seen, not only between Carlisle and Edinburgh, but over the hills and far away, as far as the
purple island of Dhrum, set in its sunset frame of ocean gold--or even farther. That could
not be, of course, but the picture was pleasant.

He had prepared himself to be ingratiating; but he realized that ingratiation was not a successful
line to pursue with dragons. Instead of inquiring politely if Mrs. MacDonald were at home,
he said bluntly, "I wish to see Mrs. MacDonald; I have business with her--not my business,
but hers. And you may tell her I am not The MacDonald of Dhrum, but a MacDonald from Dhrum,
a very different thing."

He knew well that the name of Somerled would be no "Open Sesame" to this door, and he rather
enjoyed the knowledge. It was clear at once that he had used the right key. Perhaps no other
would have served a stranger. Anna Case was not a Scotswoman, but the name of MacDonald was
respected within these gates, no matter who bore it, and this dark man, with the blue eyes
that went through you like bright steel blades, didn't look like one who would claim what he
had no right to claim. She bade him follow her into the house, which he did; into the hall;
and so to a drearier drawing-room than he had ever entered. There had perhaps been some as
gray and grim on his island of Dhrum; but in those days he had known nothing of drawing-rooms.

This was not even early Victorian. It was mid-Victorian, and rubbing and brushing had given
the ugly furniture no time to mellow. He sat down on a horsehair-covered sofa which had two
worked worsted cushions, each stiffly upright in its corner. One represented a dog's head,
the other a bunch of white and yellow flowers with a cold background of steel beads. On the
walls hung a few steel engravings; a meeting of Covenanters; portraits of unco' guid worthies
with sidewhiskers or beards; and some tortured stags pursued or caught by hounds.

"Terrible!" he groaned in spirit. "Who'd suppose that such things existed nowadays?"

He might appropriately have made much the same criticism of the old woman who at that instant
opened the door and came in, sturdily, in spite of her limp and the stout stick grasped in
a knuckly hand. But as their eyes met--hers like thick glass panes behind which a burning fire
could be dimly seen--something in her grim spirit spoke to something as grim and uncompromising
far down his nature. To his own surprise he felt awaking in himself a queer impulse of sympathy
for the redoubtable Grandma. Perhaps, reluctantly, she felt the same for him. But she looked
him in the face, keenly and unblinkingly. "Well, sir," she said, in a deep voice almost like
a man's, and amazingly young and vital, "well, sir, I do not recognize you, though you have
gained entrance to my house by claiming the name of MacDonald."

"That is true," replied Ian, who had risen at her coming. "It's the first time I've claimed
the name for many years, though it is mine and was my father's before me."

"Who was your father?" the old woman catechized him. "What kin to Duncan, my dead husband's
half-brother?"

"No kin except by clan ties. You wouldn't have heard of us. My father was a crofter. His name
was David."

"I well remember that man," said Mrs. MacDonald, "and his wife too when I lived with my husband
on the island in my youth. Let me see--Mary her name was. They were God-fearing folk, and didn't
wear any such grand clothes as you do, not even for their Sunday best."

"I paint people's portraits, you see, and have to live in cities," explained Ian calmly, though
he had grown lazy as he grew rich and had not painted. "My clothes suit my trade and way of
life better than my father's would, I think; though, as for my brains, my father's hat would
have been too big for them."

"I dare say you are right about the brains. You are that youth who went off to America under
the name of Somerled," Mrs. MacDonald severely remarked. "I have read of you in the newspapers;
but I never approved of you, sir. It's not man's work, to my mind, smearing canvas with paint,
and encouraging silly women to be vain of their faces."

"My portraits aren't considered to have that effect," returned Somerled; "rather the contrary,
in some cases. And I'm sorry you don't approve of me, because that makes a bad opening for
what I've come to say. However, it can't be helped. I know Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald slightly;
met her in America----"

"If you think an acquaintance with that woman will recommend you to me, sir, you are mightily
mistaken," was the answer he got.

"I mention it to make you understand why, when I met her daughter last night, I felt it my
duty to do what I could, being of the same name and not quite a stranger to the family."

"Oh, you felt it your duty! Then you're the person mentioned in a letter I received from a
certain Mrs. West, according to herself a writer of books. I do not read her sort of books,
and never heard of her. 'Motor novels' indeed! What worse than nonsense! Little enough sense
fools must have to buy them! If you have come from this Mrs. West, you can tell her from me,
as she has made her bed she may lie in it. She has not taken under her roof my granddaughter,
but the daughter of Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald, the play actress. I did my best for the girl,
striving to bring her up to be a good and modest woman, despite the bad blood of the mother
who broke my son's heart and killed him, who did what she could, and has been doing what she
could in the years since, to disgrace our house. I might have known I should strive in vain,
and I did know at heart. Vanity and extravagance and fondness of pleasure were Barbara Ballantree's
undoing. I preserved her daughter from those dangers, and gave her a religious education. Levity
was sternly rebuked in her. She had no young acquaintances to teach her foolishness, or tell
her of her mother's sin. She was allowed no money to fritter away on vanities, no silly novels
to read, such as those your friends write, no frivolous pursuits which could distract her mind
from duty--yet she is her mother over again, and, like her mother, runs away from my house
by stealth, in the dead of night."

"It wasn't ten o'clock when I met her in the railway station," Somerled defended the absent.
"She was then not very stealthily seeking a train for London, where she expected to find her
mother. Mrs. West has written you, I know, and told you everything that happened. For my part,
I've called to speak of a plan I have in mind for your granddaughter. The telegram you sent
Mrs. West seemed----"

"The telegram I sent Mrs. West? I've sent no telegram to her nor any one. I don't send telegrams."

"Indeed?" stammered Somerled, taken aback. "I understood--Mrs. West believed the telegram to
be from you----"

"Nothing of the kind. She couldn't have believed it," Mrs. MacDonald shut him up mercilessly.
"She must have been 'romancing,' as I suppose she would call it. I should call it lying."

Remembering Aline's words, Somerled also was frankly inclined to call it lying--on the part
of the young woman or the old. He would gladly have blamed the elder, but reason rebelled.
Whatever Mrs. MacDonald's faults might be, she did not seem to be one who would deliberately
tell a lie.

"But why should Mrs. West?" Somerled asked himself, calling up the pretty smile, the soft blue
eyes of his friend. He had been inclined to believe her true. He had liked her very much, more
than he liked most women, and had wondered if he might not learn to like her still better in
time. The women he saw oftenest were mostly nervous, exacting, self-centred creatures, craving
constant flattery. Aline was none of these things. She had many charms, and he had seen few
defects; but a motive for falseness in the matter of the telegram would suggest itself to his
intelligence. He tried to shut the door in its insinuating, conceited grin.

"There must be a mistake--somewhere," he mumbled.

"Not here, anyhow," retorted the old lady.

"After all, it's apart from the question in hand. But perhaps my plans for your granddaughter
don't interest you?"

"Not particularly. Still, you may as well tell them. I see you want to."

"And I see"--Somerled squandered a smile, but only because it came spontaneously--"I see that
you want to hear them, because," he dared to go on with a flash of his keen eyes into hers,
"you do care what becomes of Miss MacDonald. If you had not got Mrs. West's letter, you would
have had no sleep last night. As it is, knowing your granddaughter has fallen into safe hands,
you can comfortably disclaim anxiety."

"You seem to fancy yourself a mind-reader, my good sir," returned Mrs. MacDonald at her haughtiest,
or what Barrie would have called her "snortiest." "Think what you like. It is nothing to me,
and thinking costs naught. As for the hands she has fallen into, what do I know of them? They
may be black with sin for all I can tell. No doubt Barbara Ballantree's daughter would be just
as ready to accept help from such hands."

"As a painter, I try to keep mine clean," said Somerled. "I tell you that in earnest, not in
joke, because for the present I've constituted myself your granddaughter's guardian. My plan
is to take her in my motor-car to Edinburgh, where I shall deliver her safely to Mrs. Bal--Mrs.
Ballantree MacDonald. In the car will be Mrs. West and her brother, Basil Norman. Have you
anything to say against the plan? If you have, kindly speak now."

"If I did speak, would it prevent your doing what you've made up your mind to do?"

"Perhaps not, unless your reasons appealed to my judgment," Somerled admitted.

"You're no prevaricator, anyhow."

"I don't come of prevaricating stock."

"You don't, if you're David MacDonald's son. He was a humble, God-respecting man. But you have
no humble air. You hold your crest high."

Somerled was minded to be impudent and say that in that case he must get his hair cut; but
he refrained. "The atmosphere of this house does not conduce to humility, madam," he answered
instead--and always as they talked the two looked one another straight and full in the face.

"H'm!" the old woman grunted. Yet there was something vaguely resembling a twinkle in the glass-gray
eyes, a gleam which Barrie and few others now living had ever seen; for not more than one or
two of her fellow-beings had ever had the slightest idea how to manage Mrs. MacDonald, née
Ann (scorning an "e") Hillard.

"Go on your motor trip, then, so far as I care," said she, a permission which from her was
well-nigh a blessing. "It will probably end in a smash-up before Edinburgh."

"I think not," said Somerled. "I drive myself, and I know how to drive rather well."

"I was not referring to physical results."

"So I presumed. Nor was I," he retorted.

If she found the reply enigmatical she did not say so.

They had not sat down during the conversation. Now, Somerled took a step toward the door. "I'm
obliged to you for receiving me, madam," he said as a prelude to departure.

"I received you on the strength of your name," she reminded him.

"Which I don't intend to disgrace in your eyes."

"Why in my eyes? They will not long be looking your way."

"I think they will, as long as I'm in charge of your granddaughter. That's what I mean."

"I do not thank you for the assurance. Except that when she's twenty-one I shall make over
certain money of my son's to her, I have washed my hands of the girl."

"I haven't. That's not the kind of washing to make them clean."

"You reproach me, sir!" She glared at him.

"Not at all, madam. Even if I would venture, there's no need, for I think your bark is worse
than your bite."

Again she almost twinkled at the wretch's daring. There was excitement in it, which she had
not experienced since early married days. Then she had had to do with another MacDonald, and
even a Hillard could without disgrace afford to be mastered by a MacDonald of Dhrum.

"When I've put your granddaughter into more suitable guardianship than mine," Somerled went
on quickly, "I'll write and tell you."

"Suitable guardianship! It will be some time before I get that letter."

"I thank you for the compliment."

"It was not one."

"You're not to blame if I choose to take it as such."

"I am not to blame in any way in this matter."

"There I'm no judge. It's my own actions I must look after." And again he smiled.

"I advise you to be careful, sir, between Barbara Ballantree and Barribel MacDonald. I wish
you joy of them both."

"And what of Aline West?" The question whispered itself in Somerled's ears.

But Mrs. MacDonald knew nothing of Aline West. And Somerled was beginning to think that, for
all the boasted sagacity of experience, he knew not much more.

"Thank you for your kind wishes," he said non-committally. "And now I will wish you a good day."

He put out his hand, and, to her own intense surprise when she thought of it afterward, Mrs.
MacDonald gave hers. Over the prominent knuckles the old skin lay soft and loose. The grim
woman was vaguely pathetic to Somerled in his youth and strength and full tide of success.
The touch of the would-be iron hand in the velvet glove of faded age made him conscious of
his vast advantage over her. He went away filled with hope, and a curious new joy of life,
which was partly the excitement of battle.

"The heather moon!" he found himself saying, as he passed out of the ill-kept, once lovely
garden where Barrie had often dreamed. Perhaps the thought came then because here and there
a patch of heather glorified the weeds, or perhaps because Barrie's dreams still empurpled
their birthplace.

IX

When luncheon-time drew near and Somerled was absent, Aline's heart misgave her. It was useless
to argue that he must have lingered in talk with his chauffeur, with whom he had early gone
to confer. Reason offered this explanation, which was plausible, and altogether more likely
than any other; but instinct was deaf to it. Aline wandered nervously about the house and garden,
unable to settle anywhere, and it was an added vexation to her disturbed spirit that Basil
should be giving himself heart and soul to the entertainment of that dreadful girl in the summer-house.
It was well enough that he should entertain her, and keep her passive, but Aline would have
liked him to be a martyr, sacrificing his own inclination for his sister's good. She did not
wish to think that there was something about this young, crude creature which attracted men
to her, and caused them to find pleasure in her society. Aline's head ached, and she could
not think consecutively. Again and again she asked herself, "What shall I do if he has been
to see that old woman and found out about the telegram?" but no clear answer would come. She
could only repeat the would-be consoling words, "But he hasn't been there. It's silly to think
of such a thing. He's not that sort of man."

She was in the summer-house with her brother and Barrie MacDonald when at last Somerled did
come. She called to him gayly as he appeared round the corner of an immense architectural rose-bush,
and he answered pleasantly. He even met her smile with a smile as friendly to the eye, and
there was no definable change in his look or manner, yet--Aline was filled with a cold fear
which chilled the perfumed August noon. Her perception of the invisible was as sensitive as
the needle of a compass to the thrill of the magnetic north. Her brain suddenly buzzed as if
a hive of bees had been let loose in her head. A voice seemed to be yelling in her ears accusations:
"What a fool you have been--what a fool you have been. It's all your fault if he has found
out. You needn't have done the thing. It wasn't necessary."

She feared to meet Somerled's eyes and read condemnation, yet her very dread forced her to
seek them, and learn at once the best or worst, since suspense was unbearable. It seemed to
her that he avoided her look; that he too was nervous and uncomfortable, while trying to appear
at ease.

For a moment or two he talked of the car, which he had been to see, and of a sight-seeing expedition
round Carlisle which Basil had proposed for the afternoon. Then he turned suddenly to Barrie:
"I've been thinking over what we can do for you, Miss MacDonald," he said. "We don't know where
your mother is now, but we do know that she'll be in Edinburgh the first of next week. Perhaps
we might be able to find out her whereabouts meanwhile, but there'd be delay before we could
expect answers to inquiries, if she's playing small towns in order to knock her new play into
shape. You don't want to go back to your grandmother's. We're starting off in my car to-morrow.
I've undertaken the responsibility of you, so I'm your guardian pro tem. I couldn't allow you
to hang about alone anywhere. The alternative is, taking you with us in the car. What do you say?"

"Me in a motor-car!" exclaimed Barrie, rapturous. "It can't be true."

"It will be true if you say 'yes.'" Somerled spoke coolly, but it seemed to Aline that his
eyes were alight. They were fixed on the girl, noting how she paled and flushed. Her face,
seen in the golden lights and green shadows of the summer-house, had the texture of flowers.
Aline had not known it was in her to hate any one so bleakly as she hated Barrie MacDonald
at this moment; and she hated Somerled too, more than she had hated him last night. She ached
to make him suffer as he was making her suffer. If only she could--if she but had the power!

This was the blow she had known would fall: the invitation to Barrie. Now the worst had happened
despite the risk she had run for its prevention. And Somerled would not meet her eyes. Did
this mean that he not only made light of her arguments, but had found out the falsehood on
which they were based?

"Of course I say 'yes!'" Barrie was gayly answering. "It seems more than ever as if I were
in a fairy story. Travelling for five days, in a real, live motor-car, to see my real live
mother! Oh, if Grandma knew!"

"She does know," said Somerled. The words spoke themselves. For once unable to decide quickly
and definitely, he had come back from Hillard House to Moorhill Farm without making up his
mind whether or no to tell how he had spent most of his morning. He had left chance to settle
the question; and now it was settled. Still he did not look at Mrs. West. He spoke in a commonplace
tone, as if Mrs. MacDonald's knowledge of his plan included no secret knowledge on his part.

"How do you know she knows?" asked Barrie eagerly, leaning toward him with elbows on knees,
chin in hand, long red plait failing over shoulder. "You--you haven't seen her?"

"I have."

"You met her looking for me!"

"No, not that."

"Then you must have been to Hillard House."

"Yes. I went there to talk with Mrs. MacDonald about you."

To save her life, Aline could not have kept down her agonizing blush. Tears started to her
eyes. Though she had been half prepared for this blow, it fell upon her with an almost mortal
shock. Ostentatiously, Somerled was keeping his eyes off her face; and that was worse than
if he had stared straight into her eyes. Her terrible blush must have touched the consciousness
of a blind man. It called Basil's fascinated attention from the girl; and so stricken did his
sister look that he would have cried out to ask what was the matter had she not sealed his
lips with a glance of desperate command.

There was no longer a gram of doubt. Somerled knew that Mrs. West had lied about the telegram,
and everything was changed between them forever. For a moment Aline told herself that there
was no hope, there could not possibly be any; and yet, if he cared for her, would he not forgive?
Was there no way of saving the situation, and turning the inevitable change into gain instead
of loss? She took a quick and courageous resolution, as a timid woman may when told that her
life depends upon a dangerous operation, to be performed instantly or not at all.

"Mr. Somerled," she said, "can I speak to you--just you and me alone for a few minutes?" As
she made her plea, she rose from the rustic seat where she had been sitting by her brother's
side and opposite Barrie.

"Of course, with pleasure." Somerled rose too, stiff and alert as a soldier on duty. She hated
this stiffness, this alertness. It showed her that he was sensitively dreading the scene to
come, and hiding reluctance behind a hard, bright shield.

"Mrs. West," Barrie spoke out impulsively, "if you don't want me to go in the car, I won't."

"Of course I want you to go, silly child." Aline tried to withdraw sharpness from her voice,
but it was there, like the sting of a wasp in a wound. "Even if I didn't think it wise for
some reasons, it isn't my car, you know, but Mr. Somerled's, and he has a perfect right to
invite any guests he likes. Don't imagine that I'm going to talk to him about you. It's something
quite different I have to say."

Barrie was snubbed into instant silence; but as Aline and Somerled walked away together they
heard her appeal confidentially to Basil, in a tone of passionate interest: "What shall I do
about clothes? I can't go off in a motor-car with----" The rest was lost in distance.

The two walked without speaking as far as the big, spouting rose-bush and the junction where
two paths met. Then, choosing the path which avoided the house, Aline took her life in her hands.

"You mentioned that telegram to Mrs. MacDonald?"

"Yes," confessed Somerled. "The subject came up--accidentally."

"What did she say? I want you to tell me. Afterward I'll explain--why."

"She said that she hadn't sent any telegram; and I saw at once that you must have made a mistake."

"You needn't put it that way to save my feelings!" Aline caught him up, panting a little, not
trying to calm herself. "You knew that I had--told you a fib. Be honest with me. You must.
And I'll be honest with you."

"I'm glad you're talking to me like this," said Somerled simply, "because I was puzzled, I
admit. I couldn't bear to think----"

"I know exactly what you couldn't bear to think," she cut in, letting herself break into a
sob. "You thought: 'Mrs. West has told me a deliberate lie because she's jealous of that child,
and doesn't want me to take her in the car.' Oh, don't deny it. I know. And it's true. I was
jealous, I don't dislike the poor little thing. Why should I? She's too insignificant, too
much a child in intellect as well as years. But--I wanted you to ourselves. It was horrid of
me. Only you can't imagine how I've looked forward to this trip, ever since the day you asked
us to take it with you. Before that I was bored with the idea of writing the book we've promised
our publishers. Our going with you made all the difference to me. You see, we got to be such
friends on shipboard--that last night. I am a jealous friend. I admit it. And it was such a
blow to have a stranger thrust upon us--to have you thrust her upon us--when you might have
guessed how I felt, if we're friends. The telegram this morning was from Sir George. It told
me that Mrs. Bal was coming to Edinburgh. Instantly I knew you'd ask that girl to go with us
there in the car--oh, simply in your kindness of heart to a waif. But I couldn't bear it. I
saw everything spoiled--for us all, even you. I was like a disappointed child. I had to do
something--and on the impulse I made up that fib. I'm not sorry even now--I think. Yet I did
mean to tell you, sooner or later, the truth. Honestly, I shouldn't have kept silence long
if you hadn't found out. I'm not a coward when it's necessary to be brave."

"I see you're not," said Ian. "You--have paid me a great compliment, and I thank you."

"You thank me for what--precisely? For telling a fib because I wanted to keep my friend to
myself--if I could?"

"For liking me well to enough tell it."

"For liking you well enough! Yet now I've shown my liking--and my courage, you like me less."

"No."

"You do!"

"No."

"Prove that."

"How do you want me to prove it?"

Aline's voice was thick. She felt broken, but not beaten yet. "Prove it," she almost whispered,
"by sacrificing that girl to--our friendship. When we go back to the summer-house, tell her
you've changed your mind; that you'll find out at what place her mother is playing now; and
that after all you think it best to send her there at once. You could find out easily, you
know! And I'd take the child myself if you liked. I'd do that for you, if you'd do what I ask
for me."

"You're only trying me, Mrs. West," said Somerled. "You don't really wish me to fail the girl."

"Fail her! What an exaggeration. She wants to go to her mother."

"At present she wants to go to her mother by motor-car."

Anger at his obstinacy and her own failure lost Aline her self-control. "You mean you want
the girl in your motor-car!" Her manner made the words an accusation. But he took the challenge
in silence, walking at her side, his head slightly bent, his hands in his pockets. Aline darted
a glance at his profile. His jaw looked set, and he had the expression of a man who would give
anything to be smoking a cigarette.

It was too late to grope her way back to the path of tactfulness, and the hot blood in her
temples made her indifferent to his opinion, to the future, to everything except her own anger
and the need to vent it.

"Silence gives consent," she said bitterly, seeing her hopes lie broken at her feet, but not
caring much yet. Only, she knew dully that she would care by and by, care to the sharpest point
of agony. "Well, so much for our friendship! I'm sorry. I would have done a good deal for my
part of it, but there's a limit, isn't there? And friendship can't be all on one side. I'm
afraid, if you want Miss MacDonald in your car, you'll have to get her another chaperon. I
don't engage in that capacity."

Now there was just one last loophole open for Somerled. He could protest that Aline had misunderstood
him; that he cared not a hang or anything of that kind whether Miss Barrie MacDonald went to
Edinburgh or Jericho; that the only thing which mattered was Mrs. West's friendship. If he
said this quickly, she would hold out both hands to him and cry a little, and beg his pardon
for being cross. Then they would forgive each other and everything would be as before, or better.
But Aline waited breathlessly for an instant, and several more instants: and Somerled said
nothing at all. He would have continued to walk slowly on if she had not stopped suddenly in
the middle of the path, and brought him up short. Already she was beginning to feel the pain
of loss and the weighty irrevocability of everything. "What are we going to do?" she panted,
her breast rising and falling alluringly. Her cheeks were bright pink, and her eyes brilliant.
Never had she been so near to beauty; but Somerled faced her with a calm very like sullenness.

"What are you going to do?" he answered her with a question.

"What do you want me to do?"

"I want you and Norman to go motoring with me through Scotland, of course."

"Thank you. But I've made my point, and I must stick to it. Basil and I won't go with you if
this girl goes."

"We've quarrelled, then, have we?" he asked. His eyes were blue as the ice of glaciers in his
brown face. His mouth and chin looked hard as iron; and never had Aline liked him half as well.

"Yes, we've quarrelled--if you insist," she said.

"Then I must no longer intrude on you as your guest."

"You'll go----"

"Naturally I'll go. I can't stay in your house--it's the same as your house--when you think
I no longer deserve your friendship. On my side, I think you're unreasonable; but I may be
wrong. Perhaps it's I who am unreasonable, and can't see it. Anyhow, I shall have to go."

"I won't have Miss MacDonald in the house a minute after you leave," Aline said, almost threateningly.

"Why should you? Her packing won't take long, poor child."

"You'll have to send her back to her grandmother now," Aline warned him, in a brief flame of
defiance.

"That's impossible. I wouldn't break my promise, even if Mrs. MacDonald didn't forbid her the
house."

"She can't very well go alone with you to Edinburgh in your car, I suppose?"

"She is going to Edinburgh in my car, but not alone with me. Won't you go too, Mrs. West, and
let us forget all this nonsense?"

"You call it nonsense? That shows how little you understand me, how willing you are to spoil
everything for the sake of this wretched girl! Basil and I will simply go back to our original
plan, and travel through Scotland together in a hired car."

"Luncheon is served, madam," Moore announced, at the turn of the path.

Luncheon--and the world in ruin!

"Mr. Somerled and Miss MacDonald will not be lunching," said Aline icily.

Moore hid surprise by retiring in decorous haste.

"Good-bye, Mrs. West," said Somerled.

He held out his hand, looking at her steadily, but she turned and rushed away from him, crying.

BOOK II

ACCORDING TO BARRIE

I

When the Great Surprise happened, Mr. Norman and I had just been having a very nice talk. I'd
never expected to know a real author, and of course I wanted to talk about him, but he would
talk about me instead. He asked me questions in quite a different way from his sister's, though
I can't put the difference into words. I can only feel it. I know his way made me want to answer
him, and hers made me want to slap her. That is queer, because she was not rude, but soft and
gentle.

Among other things that Mr. Norman teased me to tell, was about the silly stories which I've
always been scribbling secretly ever since the time when I had to print because I hadn't learned
to write. He said that he would like to see them, but I told him they were torn up, even the
last one, which I stuffed into the chimney in my room before I ran away from Grandma's. Then
he said I must write another, and he would help me. I was excited when he went on to say that
people who took to writing like ducks to water when they were almost babies, without any one
advising them, generally had real talent. This made me wild to begin writing again at once,
and I envied him because he and Mrs. West had planned out a story all about their motor trip
in Scotland. I thought it would be the greatest fun to write of things that were actually happening;
but he explained that he wasn't going to bring in the real people or what they did or said,
only the scenery and perhaps a few of the adventures, glorified a little. I told him that I
should enjoy even more writing things exactly as they were in life; then he argued that if
one did it in that way it wouldn't be a story, but a kind of diary.

Perhaps this is a kind of diary, but I feel as if I must write it, especially as, because of
what happened while we were talking, Mr. Norman's story can't be written after all. At least
it can't be written about this trip and this beautiful car.

That prim maid Moore, who looks as if she'd had a rush of teeth to the head, minced to the
door of the summer-house where we were sitting, and called us to luncheon. Of course that interrupted
our conversation, but Mr. Norman said it must be "continued in our next," like a serial story
and we'd make the most of our time between Carlisle and Edinburgh. "You'll let me help you
all I can, won't you, Miss MacDonald?" he asked. I said "Yes," and thanked him; and then he
exclaimed, "Let's shake hands on the compact."

I didn't know precisely what a compact was, but I shook hands, because most things which begin
with "com" are pleasant. Just as we were giving the last shake, Mr. Somerled appeared, and
I felt myself getting red, because his eyes looked so blue and fierce, as if he were vexed
about something.

"We're striking a bargain," Mr. Norman explained. "Miss MacDonald has promised to let me help
her up the ladder of fame as an author. How many days are you going to give us together in
your motor-car?"

"My dear chap, I'm sorry to tell you that Mrs. West and I have just had a row," said Mr. Somerled,
"and she's backed out of the trip."

I've always laughed when I've heard or read the expression, "his face fell"; but faces do fall.
Mr. Norman's chin seemed suddenly to grow inches longer. "Backed out of the trip!" he echoed,
as if he couldn't believe his ears.

"Yes. I asked her to reconsider, but made a mess of it. I fear there's no hope that she'll
change her mind. She says you and she will take your trip alone."

I quite wished that he'd invite Mr. Norman to break off from his sister, but he didn't. Perhaps
that would not have been etiquette. I don't know anything about such things. The etiquette
book Heppie lent me to read once was too uninteresting, worse than Hannah More.

Mr. Norman's face went on falling. His sister would not have been complimented if she had seen it.

"In fact," Mr. Somerled added, "I'm afraid this is good-bye. Mrs. West doesn't expect"--he
stopped and laughed a little--"doesn't expect Miss MacDonald and me to stay to luncheon."

I see now that it was horrid of me, but I clapped my hands, and cried out, "How thrilling!"
Mr. Norman turned red. I hope he didn't think I was ungrateful. It wasn't that at all which
made me clap my hands. It was being coupled with Mr. Somerled in the row, and wondering what
was going to become of us both.

"It's like Adam and Eve being turned out of Paradise, by the Angel with the Flaming Sword,"
I said, to make things better; and perhaps it did, for they both laughed this time, but it
was very queer laughter. If Heppie had heard me laugh like that, she would have accused me
of hysterics. But it was good for Mr. Norman, and stopped his face from falling. He stammered
regrets and apologies and suggestions, and Mr. Somerled seemed upset, too, though not excited,
like Mr. Norman and me. He went into the house to collect our belongings, and I was thankful
not to meet Mrs. West. She kept out of our way, but one of the servants helped Mr. Somerled,
who has no man to look after him, and another, not that horrid Moore, offered to help me, but
I said, "No, thank you." I knew she would make fun of my bundle to the others afterward. All
the maids have stick-out teeth in this house, as if they'd been engaged on purpose, and somehow
it makes them seem formidable, like having ogresses to do your packing.

Fancy Mr. Somerled, in the midst of his worry, remembering that I might want to give money
to Mrs. West's servants! He doesn't seem the sort of man who would think of little things like
that, but I begin to see already that it isn't easy to guess what he is like really, unless
he chooses to let one do so. As we were on the way to the house, he said to me in a low tone,
"Here's an installment of what I owe you for your brooch," and quickly he slipped a lot of
gold and silver into my hand, making my fingers shut round the coins.

"But you haven't got the brooch yet," I whispered back.

"I'll trust you," he said, in an absent-minded way, as already his thoughts had rushed off
to something else. And no wonder!

I gave a ten-shilling piece to the maid, with a grand air which must have impressed her, because
she treated me almost respectfully after that, and secretly smuggled down my ugly bundle to
the front gate, where, in a few minutes more, Mr. Somerled's big car came to fetch us away.
Some one must have been sent to fetch it, and there were a few crumbs on the chauffeur's coat,
which made me fancy he'd been called away in the midst of his luncheon, poor man. He must have
been surprised, but he had that ineffable marble-statue look which I've noticed on the faces
of grand coachmen driving high-nosed old ladies in glittering carriages through the streets
of Carlisle. Heppie says that the true test of a well-trained servant is to show no emotion
in any circumstances whatever; so I suppose this big chauffeur, whose name is Vedder, must
be very well trained indeed. He is a strange looking man, but very smart, and, being a Cockney,
carefully puts all his "h's" in the wrong place. If he forgets to do this, he goes back and
pronounces the word over again. He travelled to America from London to be Mr. Somerled's coachman
years ago, and then he learned how to drive a motor-car and be a mechanic, because he couldn't
bear to have his master tearing over the earth with any one else. Mr. Somerled told me all
this, coming from the railway station, when he was bringing me to Moorhill Farm.

Mr. Norman saw us off, and was very cast down as Mr. Somerled's luggage was put on the car,
but he was so loyal to his sister, that he would not say much except, "I'm sorry!" over and
over again.

I was afraid that Mr. Somerled would drive (as he told me the night before he liked driving
his own car) and leave me sitting alone in the immense gray automobile, which has a glass front
and a top you can put up or down. But to my joy he got in beside me, and let Vedder take the
wheel in those large, well-made hands which carry out the marble-statue idea. I had no notion
where we were going; and Vedder drove so slowly that I guessed he was expecting further instructions.

As soon as we were safely away from the gate I asked the question burning on my tongue: "You
won't take me to Grandma?"

"I thought you trusted me as I trusted you," was the only answer Mr. Somerled condescended to make.

Suddenly I saw myself a selfish pig. "I do trust you," I insisted. "But I ought to want to
go back of my own accord, rather than let you give up--things--for me. I'm nothing to you----"

"You're Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald's daughter, and--er--a fellow-being."

"If it comes to that, I suppose a worm's a fellow-being. But this worm has turned, and would
as soon cross the path of a perfectly ravenous early bird as go to its grandmother. So I won't
do that, even for your sake, though you've been so kind; but I wish you'd drop me at the station
where you found me, and let me travel to Edinburgh by train. I can wait there for mother----"

"Nonsense!" he broke in; a word he seems devoted to, as he has already used it several times
to pound down some suggestion of mine as if he were breaking it with a hammer. He has the air
of a man used to getting his own way with the world, anyhow with women, and I can't think it
good for him; though Mrs. West's one idea apparently is to do what will please him, not fussily,
but gently and sweetly; so that must be what men like. I should pity him if he lived with Grandma!
I suppose it is my living with her for so long which makes me feel like going against strong,
dictatorial people, just to see what they will do. With him, that plan would be exciting. It
is ungrateful of me, but I long to contradict him about something, it doesn't matter what,
and try my naughty little strength against his, like a headstrong, conceited mouse pitting
itself against a lion.

I had no inclination to contradict or fight with Mr. Norman. But he has pathetic, wistful eyes,
asking for kindness, whereas Mr. Somerled's look bored with things, as if he needed waking up.

I thought these thoughts while he went on to remind me more gently, that he'd promised to motor
me to Edinburgh, and that he had quite a strong weakness for not breaking promises.

"But I give you back this one unbroken, not even cracked," said I. "So that's different."

"I don't choose to take it back," said he. "You'll humiliate me if you refuse to go to Edinburgh
in my car--with a competent chaperon, of course."

"A chaperon! My gracious!" I couldn't help laughing. "Aren't you chaperon enough--a great big,
grown-up man?"

"I suppose you think me very old," said he; "and so I am, compared to you; but I'm afraid--no,
I'm not afraid--to tell you the truth, I'm extremely glad that I haven't come yet to the chaperon
age."

"What is the chaperon age for a man?" I inquired.

"Seventy."

"And you won't be that for a long time," I added dreamily, wondering how old he really was.

For an instant his eyes waked up thoroughly, and he looked as if he were in a fury; then he
burst out laughing. But his brown face was rather red when he asked if I would mind mentioning
my honest impression of his age.

I thought a minute, and then said that perhaps he might be--well, nearly thirty. He laughed
again, and seemed relieved, but wanted to know if thirty struck me as old or young. I didn't
know what to answer, not to be impolite, so I said presently that I had always thought of thirty
as being the year when you were not middle-aged yet, though anything that happened to you after
your thirtieth birthday couldn't matter. "Still," I went on, "you look young. Only, there's
something important and decided about you, as if you must have been grown up for a long time."

"Not to deceive you, I'm thirty-four," he said. "Now, no doubt, you'll consider me a sort of
Ancient Mariner. Perhaps that's all the better."

"Looking at you, I can't, even if it would be better," I had to confess. "You're so alive--so
strong, so--almost violent. I can't somehow imagine that you've ever been younger, or that
you can ever grow older."

Just then, when we'd forgotten the chaperon part of our conversation, the car slowed down and
Vedder made a kind of signal of distress. Mr. Somerled put his head out through the open window,
whereupon I think Vedder must have reminded him that we were coming into town, wanting to know
what he was to do next. In came Mr. Somerled's smooth black head again, and he glared at me
in a kind of amused desperation. "You must know some one who would act as your chaperon for
a few days, at a good salary--sent home by train when we'd done with her. That ex-governess
or nurse of yours, you told me about."

"Oh, Heppie wouldn't be found dead leaving Grandma," said I. "Not that she loves her. Neither
does a mouse love a cat, when it won't try to escape. It keeps running back and being polite
with its eyes bulging out."

"There must be somebody else. Think. Has your grandmother any friends?"

"Dear me, no. She'd scorn it. Only a few acquaintances and a relation or two, whom she snubs
when they come to see her and scolds if they don't. They wouldn't--but, oh, perhaps Mrs. James
might. I wonder?"

"Where does Mrs. James live?"

I told him quickly that it was in a little sort of cul-de-sac street called Flemish Passage,
not far from English Street, where Heppie and I sometimes look at the shops; and I was going
on to say more about it and about Mrs. James, but before I'd time to draw another breath, Mr.
Somerled grabbed up a speaking tube and was talking through it. "Find Flemish Passage near
English Street, and I'll tell you where to stop," he addressed the back of Vedder's massive head.

"It's an old curiosity shop, and she keeps it," I hurried to explain, but that didn't seem
to matter to Mr. Somerled.

"I hope you like the lady's society," was all he said.

"I love her, and she's an angel, but a very peculiar angel; and Grandma doesn't call her a
lady, so perhaps you won't," I broke the news to him.

"I daresay your grandmother wouldn't have called my mother a lady," he replied coolly. "She
was an angel, and the cleverest, most gracious woman I ever knew or expect to know." I did
like him for saying this. And something told me that, in spite of his domineering way with
me, he wouldn't be one to put on high and mighty airs with Mrs. James, as Grandma does.

English Street, of course, is the main street of Carlisle and runs north to William Rufus's
Castle that stands looking over the moors toward the border, eight miles away. Grandma never
would let Heppie take me into the Castle, because it's turned into barracks now, and swarming
with soldiers. She said that her father called soldiers Men of Blood, and seemed to think that
ought to put me off from wishing to go in, but it didn't a bit, rather the other way round.
I love soldiers in books, and should like to meet some.

It was near the old Citadel of Henry VIII, where the towers have been turned into court-houses,
that we had to turn off, and it is there that English Street really begins. It didn't take
Vedder long to find Flemish Passage--which Mrs. James says is named after the Flemish masons
William Rufus brought over to make the Castle, men who settled down afterward to live in Carlisle.
Maybe there were Flemish houses on the spot in those days--who knows? I love to think there
were; and though there isn't a trace of anything half so ancient as William, Flemish Passage
can't have changed much from what it must have been in the Middle Ages. Even the people who
live there are mostly old, and as the big gray car turned into the small, quiet cul-de-sac,
elderly heads appeared at antique windows of all the medieval houses. I should think nothing
so exciting had happened in Flemish Passage at all events since Carlisle surrendered to Prince
Charlie. The car looked enormous, as if it were a dragon swelling to twice its size in rage
because it knew there would be no room for it to turn round when it wanted to get out.

Mrs. James house used to be like the others till she had the two front windows thrown into
one, and took to keeping a shop. The way she happened to do that was just as it was with Miss
Mattie in that darling "Cranford" I found with father's name in it; only Mrs. James, of course,
was married and Miss Mattie wasn't. I wanted to tell Mr. Somerled about her, and how her husband,
a distant cousin of Grandma's, was the doctor that couldn't cure my father. Mrs. James herself
wasn't a cousin, and wasn't even of the north, so Grandma never thought of her, as she has
no opinion of southern people. Mrs. James was Devonshire, and (in Grandma's eyes) a mésalliance
for Richard James. He lodged with the Devonshire girl's mother when he was a medical student
in London, Heppie told me once; and even Heppie puts on superior airs with Mrs. James, whom
she considers a feckless creature. I have an idea Heppie knew the doctor before he met his
wife, and he was her One Romance; so naturally she thinks the "James Mystery" wouldn't have
happened if he had married her instead. Of course, though, it could never have occurred to
any one to marry Heppie, whereas Mrs. James must always have been a darling and very pretty
in her fluffy way. Grandma says the "James Mystery" (as it seemed it was called in the newspapers
at the time, when I was very small) never was a mystery except for "fools or sensation-mongers."
I heard her speak those very words to poor Mrs. James, who has always called on Grandma once
a month, ever since I can remember, though Grandma does nothing but make herself disagreeable
and say things to hurt Mrs. James feelings, knowing that her one dream of happiness is in believing
her husband still lives.

Nobody else believes this, Heppie has told me; because Doctor James had a motive for not wishing
to live, "apart from any disappointment in his home life." After he didn't cure my father there
was another case which he was supposed not to have understood. I don't know exactly what happened,
for my questions weren't encouraged; but he operated on the person when he ought not, or else
didn't operate when he ought; anyhow the person was a high personage, so there was trouble,
and then might have been a legal inquiry if Doctor James hadn't gone one day to Seascale, and
from there disappeared. His hat was found on the beach, and a coat, and though his body was
never recovered, all the world except his wife felt sure he had drowned himself on purpose.
As for her, she is perfectly certain that he is alive, and she hopes to this day that some
time he will come to her, or else send for her to go to him.

He disappeared or died, or whatever it was, seventeen years ago when I was almost a baby; and
he and Mrs. James weren't so very young even then: but because he admired what he called her
"baby face," she has always tried desperately to keep her looks that he mayn't find her changed
when (she doesn't say "if") they meet again. It is the most pathetic thing I ever heard of,
because in spite of all the troubles she has had, enough to make her old twice over, she has
never lost gayety or courage. Grandma and Heppie think it wicked and frivolous of her not to
"bow to God's will," but I think she is a marvel, and I love every little funny way and trick
she has.

I don't know Mrs. James well enough to call her my friend, because I don't often see her, and
we've never been left alone together when she's called on Grandma; Heppie took me to her house
only once, just after she'd grown poor through the breaking of some savings-bank, and turned
her little drawing-room into an antique shop. I fancy Heppie wanted to go simply to spy out
the nakedness of the land and satisfy curiosity in Grandma. But I've never forgotten that day,
and how brave and bright Mrs. James was, selling off the pretty old things which she had loved:
heirlooms of her family and her husband's; old clocks, old vases, old ornaments, and jewels,
old china and glass, old samplers and bits of embroidery or brocade, old furniture, old pictures
and transparencies, and everything of value except old books, which she adored because his
library had been her husband's life. It was clever of her, I think, to group the treasures
together in the little drawing-room with its oak panelling and beams, its uneven, polished
oak floor, and the two diamond-paned windows which she enlarged and threw into one. It is not
like a shop, but just a charming room crowded full of lovely things, and every one of them
for sale, even the chairs. She wrote cards of advertisement which the hotel people let her
pin up in their halls or offices, because they respected her pluck, and had liked Doctor James.
Americans and other travellers saw the advertisements, and went to her house; so by and by
Mrs. James made a success with her experiment. When most of her own antiquites were sold, she
could afford to buy others, just as good or better, to take their places. She never made big
sums of money; but maybe that was because she had debts of her husband's to pay off, which
she kept secret. Besides, she is so generous and kind that she would give good prices for things
in buying, and ask small ones in selling.

"Mrs. James: Antiquities;" it says in gilt letters over the door on which you can still see
the mark left by the professional name-plate of Doctor James. His wife had that taken off before
she opened her shop, because she felt that her going into trade might seem to discredit "his
honoured name."

That is her great watchword: "his honoured name." I've often heard her repeat it to Grandma,
who invariably snorts and says something to dishearten or humiliate the poor humble darling
who thinks so much of the Hillard and James families, and so little of herself.

Opening the door, which rings a bell of its own accord, you walk straight into the drawing-room,
or hall. There's an oak screen which cuts off your view to the left, and gives an opportunity
for surprises; and straight ahead at the back is a lovely old carved stairway, that goes up
steeply, with two turns and two platforms, where stand tall, ancient clocks. Behind this hall
or drawing-room, turned into a shop, is a tiny parlour, where Mrs. James spends her few free
hours, eats her tiny, lonesome meals, and faithfully reads nearly every book in her husband's
library, so that she may be an intelligent companion for him if he comes back. The walls of
the parlour are covered with his books, on shelves reaching up nearly as high as the low-beamed
ceiling. Behind the parlour is the kitchen, which looks into a tiny garden with one lovely
apple tree in it; and a back stairway almost like a ladder leads to what used to be servants'
rooms. Now Mrs. James sleeps in one; and next door is the young girl, rescued from something
or other by the Salvation Army, who is her only servant. The front part of the "upstairs,"
which you reach by the lovely staircase in the shop, is occupied by a curate-lodger. Heppie
says Mrs. James can afford to give up having a lodger now, and that she keeps him on only because
she's stingy; or else because she thinks it "distinguished" to have some connection with "Church."
But I'm sure it's really because she's so kind and good-natured, that she can't bear to turn
the curate away from rooms which have been his only home for years.

She was surprised to see me get out of an automobile with a man! I know she did see me get
out, because she opened the door herself, exclaiming in her soft Devonshire voice, which has
never been hardened by the north, "Why, Barribel, my dear child, can I believe my eyes?"

She throws emphasis on a great many words when she talks, which Heppie says is gushing, and
not reserved enough for a true lady; but I like it when Mrs. James does it, because it sounds
cordial, and more interested in you than any other person's way of talking which I ever heard.

I introduced Mr. Somerled, and hurried in the next breath to explain that he was a MacDonald,
because that made him seem like a relation, and she wouldn't think to begin with that I was
with a perfect stranger. But as soon as I said "Somerled," she knew all about him, not only
the history of the first Somerled, which, of course, she would know, but that this one was
a great celebrity. I shouldn't have known that, if Mr. Norman hadn't mentioned it: and Moore
with the teeth told me, too, that she'd heard Mrs. West say he was "a millionaire." I'm not
sure if Mrs. James knew about the millions, and even if she did, they wouldn't seem half as
important to her as his pictures, which she began to chat about. Of course they're not as important,
because anybody can have millions by accident, but they can have genius only from what they
are in themselves. I felt more than ever how wonderful it was that he should be so good to
me; a person so flattered and run after; but all the same I couldn't make myself feel in awe
of him. He seemed to me just a Man: and I wanted as much as ever to see what he would do if
I took my own way and went against him.

Mrs. James invited us into the house in her cordial, emphatic way, while our coming and our
being together were still mysteries which must have puzzled her wildly. I saw by the blue flash
in Mr. Somerled's eyes that the artist in him admired the shop-drawing-room, and I thought
from his manner that he had taken a fancy to Mrs. James herself. I am so used to her looks,
from seeing her once a month ever since I can remember, that I can hardly judge what she is
like: and I suppose she is peculiar. But why shouldn't she try to keep young for the sake of
her dream? I think it's romantic and beautiful, and all one with her efforts to become the
intellectual equal of her lost husband. Grandma and Heppie sneer after Mrs. James has been
and gone, at the long words she uses, and condemn her for wanting to deceive people into thinking
she's much younger than she is. But that is because they've no romance in them, and can't understand
her true motive.

Her figure is like a young girl's, though perhaps a little stiffer and less rounded. She is
short, and has the tiniest waist in the world, so tiny that it must hurt her to breathe, but
that is her chief pride, because "the doctor" (as she always calls him) fell in love at first
sight with her slender waist; and she has never let it measure an inch more than it did then.
A big man could span it with his hands. Perhaps Doctor James could. She dresses her hair now
as he liked best seventeen years ago, though the fringe looks old-fashioned and odd. Grandma
says her hair is bleached, otherwise it couldn't have kept its yellow colour at her age, forty-five.
But it shines and is a lovely golden. She takes the greatest pains in doing it, too, even when
she's in a hurry on a cold winter's morning, because she's never sure "the doctor" mayn't appear
that day, to give her a surprise. It would be too bad if, after all these years, he should
walk in and find her not looking her best!

She has features like a doll's, with large dark blue eyes, and high arched eyebrows which give
her an innocent, expectant expression. Heppie says she blacks them; but Heppie has no eyebrows
at all, so it's difficult for her to believe in other people's.

When Mrs. James came to meet us at the door, she had a ladies' paper in her hand, open at a
page where it told you in big letters, "How to be Beautiful Forever," so I suppose it's true,
as Heppie says, that she's always looking for recipes to keep young. She had on a lavender
muslin dress, very becoming to her fair complexion, which would be perfect if she hadn't a
very few little veins showing in the pink of her cheeks, and some faint, smiling-lines round
her eyes, which you see only if you stare rudely as Grandma does, to "take down Mrs. James's
vanity." Lavender was the doctor's favourite colour, and she invariably wears one shade or
another of it. She never would go into mourning for him, as people thought she ought to do
when he disappeared.

I explained everything, talking so fast that I got out of breath, while Mr. Somerled walked
round the room looking at the curiosities. I was glad no customers came in to interrupt; but
luckily there wasn't much danger at that hour, as it wasn't yet half-past two, and people had
scarcely finished their luncheons. As I talked, she gave little exclamations almost like the
cooing of a dove; and the most desperate thing in our story seemed to be, in her opinion, the
fact that we hadn't lunched.

She insisted on giving us eggs and apple-tart and coffee in her own dining-room, and she let
us come into the kitchen and help cook. Mr. Somerled looked quite young and boyish. We all
three laughed a good deal. Not a word did Mr. Somerled say about my going to Edinburgh or the
chaperon business until we'd finished our picnic meal, and he had selected several of the best
and most expensive things in the shop for himself. After that, how could Mrs. James refuse
him what he called "a great favour" even if she'd wished to say no, which she didn't. On the
contrary, she was enchanted. Everything had worked together to make her going possible. The
curate had gone off for a holiday, giving her permission to use his two rooms if she liked.
I could have them till we started; and she would ask a friend from next door to attend to the
shop, a nice girl who often helped her, if she were ill or had to go away on a "curiosity quest."
"Just think!" she exclaimed, "I've never been to Scotland, though it's only eight miles distant,
and I've pined to go all my life. You'll find that I've a good book-knowledge of the country,
if that's any use, for my dear husband's favourite pastime has been the study of history. Since
he--left Carlisle, I've devoted much time to following his researches."

The long words do come so nicely from her pretty little mouth, and she shapes them with such
care, that they seem to issue forth one by one like neatly formed birds being let out of a
cage. She is making a speciality of pronunciation, and what she sometimes speaks of as "refined
wording." She was a farmer's daughter in Devonshire.

It was arranged that the girl from next door should be called in at once, in order that Mrs.
James and I might go and buy things. I was rich on the proceeds of the brooch; for Mr. Somerled
counted out the rest of the money on the parlour table; and Mrs. James abetted him in saying
that fifty pounds was not a penny too much to lend on such a treasure. But it does seem wonderful!
Mrs. James herself must have felt flush after making such good sales, and her eyes lit at the
thought of a motor hat and coat--they seemed exciting purchases. But when Mr. Somerled mentioned
the fact that mother is one of the best-dressed women in the world, the little woman looked
frightened. "I shan't dare take the responsibility of choosing an outfit for the child, then,"
said she nervously. (I do wish people wouldn't call me "child," though it's nicer from Mrs.
James than Mrs. West!) "Supposing she shouldn't make the correct impression? Won't you be persuaded
to help us, sir, with your advice about the most important articles?"

Somehow I feel that Mr. Somerled hates "sir" as much as I hate "child." I expected him to make
an excuse, that he knew nothing about such things--or "articles," according to Mrs. James.
But instead, he snapped at the suggestion and looked as pleased as Punch. I suppose he doesn't
want me to be a fright and disgrace his car on the journey.

When Miss Hubbell had come in from the next house, smelling of some lovely sort of jam which
she and her mother had been making, off we three went in the gray automobile, Mrs. James trying
not to look self-conscious and proud, nor to give little jumps and gasps when she thought we
were going to run over creatures.

It is many years since she has been to London. I think she was there on her wedding trip and
never since: and besides that expedition, Exeter and Carlisle are her two largest cities: but,
in order to impress the great artist, she patronized Carlisle, saying we "mustn't hope for
London shops." I longed to catch his eye, because I'm sure he sees everything that is funny;
but it would have been horrid to laugh at the kind darling, trying to be a woman of the world.

In the end, it was Mr. Somerled and I who chose everything, even Mrs. James's motor coat and
hat, for she was too timid to decide; and if she had decided, it would have been to select
all the wrong things. I had to get my dresses ready-made, because of starting for Scotland
next morning, and it was funny to see how difficult Mr. Somerled was to please. One would have
thought he took a real interest in my clothes; but of course it was owing to his artistic nature.
We found a blue serge--I wouldn't have believed, after my deadly experience, that blue serge
could be so pretty--and a coat and skirt of creamy cloth; and an evening frock of white chiffon,
I think the girl called it. Actually it has short sleeves above my elbows, and quite a low
neck, that shows where my collar-bone used to be when I was thinner than I am now. It seems
an epoch to have a dress like that. It was Mr. Somerled who picked it out from among others,
and insisted on my having it, though, simple as it looked, it was terribly expensive. Mrs.
James thought I couldn't afford it, as I had so many things to do with my fifty pounds, but
Mr. Somerled brushed aside her objections in that determined way he has even in little things.
He said that it would be money in his pocket, as an artist, to paint me in this gown; and that
I must sit for him in it. He would call his picture "The Girl in the White Dress"; and as he'd
show it in London and New York and get a big price, of course he must be allowed to pay for
the dress. Mrs. James seemed doubtful about the propriety, but he drew his black eyebrows together,
and that made her instantly quite sure he must be right. When she'd agreed to my having the
dress on those terms, she couldn't--as he said--stick at a mere hat, so he bought me a lovely
one to wear with the creamy cloth. He suggested that I should keep it in the "tire box" while
motoring--a huge round thing on the top of the car.

"It is just like having a kind uncle, isn't it, my dear?" asked Mrs. James. But I didn't feel
that Mr. Somerled was the sort of man I could ever think of as a kind uncle, and I said so
before I'd stopped to wonder if it sounded rude. Luckily he didn't seem offended.

I am writing this in the curate's sitting-room upstairs in Mrs. James's house. It is night,
and we are to start to-morrow morning very early, because I happened to mention that I'd never
seen the inside of Carlisle Castle, or put my nose into the Cathedral. Grandma does not approve
of cathedrals, and their being historic makes no difference. Mr. Somerled said that we could
visit both, and then "slip over the border." Oh, that border! How I have thought of it, as
if it were the door of Romance; and so it is, because it is the door of Scotland. I am afraid
it must be a dream that I shall cross at last, to see the glories on the other side, and find
the lovely lady who to me is Queen of all Romance--my mother. Still, I've pinched myself several
times, and instead of waking up in my old room at Hillard House each time I've found myself
with my eyes staring wide open, in the curate's room, which has a lot of books in it and a
smell of tobacco smoke, and on the mantelpiece Mrs. James's wedding wreath as an ornament under
a glass case.

Mr. Somerled has gone to a hotel; but he stayed to supper with us, and Mrs. James brought out
all her nicest things. It was much pleasanter than supper last night at Moorhill Farm, though
Mrs. West had lovely things to eat. I am glad I shall never see Moore again! But I should like
to see Mr. Norman. I could feel toward him as if he were a brother. But I don't know what to
say about my feeling toward Mr. Somerled. I think of him as of a knight, come to the rescue
of a forlorn damsel in an enchanted forest. After delivering the damsel from one dragon--Grandma--he
is going to take her away with another quite different sort of a dragon; a well-trained, winged
dragon, which people who don't know any better believe to be only a motor-car.

II

I don't know how I dared with such a man, but I talked foolish fairy talk to Mr. Somerled,
alias the Knight, this morning, and he answered gravely in the same language. I should be doing
him a great service, he said, if I could lead him back to fairyland, because he used to know
the way, but had lost it long ago. He had given up the hope of finding it again, and until
the other day had feared that all the fairies were dead.

"If you find fairyland, it ought to be while the heather moon shines," I told him. "But I shan't
have much time to help you look for it, because in five days you'll be leaving me with mother,
and travelling on alone. You must search for the key to the rainbow wherever you go; because,
you know, it might be anywhere, and the light of the heather moon would show it gleaming in
the grass, or under a flower, or even in the middle of the road before your eyes."

He looked at me in an odd, almost wistful way, and I couldn't look away from him, though I
wanted to, for it was as if he were reading my inmost Me--using my eyes for windows, of which
I couldn't draw the curtains.

"You might find the key, if you haven't got it already," he said. "Anyhow, I can't find it
without your help, But no matter. Perhaps I shouldn't know what to do with it if I did, now
I've grown old and disillusioned."

Then I answered, because I couldn't help it under the spell of his eyes. "You're not old or
disillusioned. You're a Knight: and knights who rescue damsels are always young and brave."

Before I saw him, if any one had told me a person of over thirty was not middle-aged, I should
have thought it nonsense. But now I see that even thirty-four is not old. It seems exactly
the right age for a man.

"If you dub me Knight, I christen you Princess," said he, laughing as if embarrassed, yet pleased.
"Because, I confess I wandered near enough to the border last night, to think of you as a princess
who'd been shut up in a glass retort, as all really nice princesses were in my day, in fairyland.
Now the retort has been opened, though the princess believed it to be hermetically sealed----"

"It was the knight who opened it!" I interrupted him. "But did you really go near to the border?"

"The border of fairyland."

"Oh! I meant Scotland. But, after all, to me it seems much the same thing. Doesn't it to you?"

"I haven't thought of it so for a good many years," he said. "Yet it might be----"

I lost the rest, because Mrs. James came in, ready to start. We had been standing together
in the little sitting-room at the back of the house while she gave last directions to Miss
Hubbell. And I had on my new serge, of course, with a blouse more fit for an angel than Barrie
MacDonald; and a gray coat and a gray hood with a long gray veil floating out from it--all
the same gray as the car, and chosen to match. I couldn't help thinking, when I put on the
hood before the curate's looking-glass, that in spite of a green crack across my face and one
purple splash on my eye (it's a very antique glass, not used to girls' complexions) I really
wasn't so bad. Oh, if only mother is pleased! But of course all mothers must be pleased with
their children. One reads a great deal in books about mother's love.

We bought two small trunks yesterday, one for Mrs. James and one for me, of the same gray colour
as our cloaks, both made especially for a motor-car: and Mr. Somerled has a gray trunk too,
smaller than mine, also a thing he calls a suit-case. This morning he brought us each a present
of a little gray handbag, fitted with brushes and combs and a mirror, and tiny bottles for
eau-de-cologne. My fittings look like gold, though I suppose of course they are only gilded;
and Mrs. James's are silver. She thought it would hurt his feelings if we refused to accept
his presents, though she was brought up to believe that a lady must never take anything from
a gentleman except books, sweets, and flowers. However, she says she has often found it difficult
to conduct life according to rules of etiquette, as there are so many complications they've
forgotten to put in.

It was only half-past eight when we started, for we wanted to see the Cathedral and the Castle.
We were going to the Cathedral first, and on the way we had to pass a big motor garage which
has always made my heart beat just to see, whenever Heppie and I have come to town shopping.
I used to wonder what it would be like to sail through the wide doorway in a car of my own.
Poor me, in my "glass retort," with little chance, it seemed, of escaping from the dragon to
travel in any sort of mobile except the pillow-mobile into which I used often, to jump at night,
and flash away to far-off countries of dreamland.

Now, poking its large nose out of that garage was a gray motor (but not so nice a gray as ours)
conducted by a wisp of a chauffeur. He was driving two passengers, and I bounced on the springy
back seat of our car with surprise as I recognized them. Down went my head mechanically in
as polite a bow as if I hadn't been turned out of her house by Mrs. West, though, when I realized
what I was doing, I was afraid she might pretend not to know me. It must make one feel such
a worm to be ignored when one has just grinned and ducked! But I needn't have feared. Mr. Norman
took off his cap as impressively as if I were really the princess of the knight's fairy dream;
and Mrs. West bowed, with a sweet, sad look first at Mr. Somerled, then finishing up with me--just
the reproachful, yet resigned martyr-look a queen ought to give a crowd of rebellious subjects
on her way to the scaffold where their cruelty had sent her.

Of course, if I had to show this to Mr. Norman, and get him to criticise my writing as he offered
to do, I couldn't put in such things; so perhaps it's as well I shall have to worry on alone.

Mr. Somerled, who was driving our car (with Vedder by his side, tooting a musical horn), took
off his cap as beautifully as Mr. Norman did, without upsetting the steering, though there
seemed to be a hundred things and creatures of all descriptions in front of the motor's big
bright nose at that particular moment. I'd never realized until then what a crowded, busy place
Carlisle is; because it seems that you have a different set of emotions and impressions especially
for use in motor-cars, and you have to use them there, whether you like or not. I suppose they
lay quiescent in people for thousands of years, between the epoch of exciting prehistoric beasts
and automobiles; but now they come into play often enough to make up for lost time. Not that
I was afraid in the car, even at first: only it did seem as if all the things that moved on
the face of the earth were aiming directly at us, to say nothing of what we ourselves were
doing to them. Luckily for me, I trusted Mr. Somerled; and perhaps Mrs. James hadn't quite
arrived at that blissful state, or else she was naturally more timid, for she held on so fast
to the arm of the seat that she tore a glove, and had a strained expression about her eyes
and nostrils, though she beamed in a painstaking way whenever she caught me looking at her.

"Who is that pretty blond lady and the handsome dark young man you just bowed to?" she asked,
when we had passed the gray car that was like a bad copy of ours.

I told her that the man was Mr. Basil Norman and the lady was Mrs. West, who had quarrelled
with Mr. Somerled yesterday for some reason he wouldn't explain, but probably because she couldn't
be bothered with me.

"Poor thing, she looked ready to cry!" sighed Mrs. James. "By this time, I dare say, she's
sorry for what she did, and praying for a chance to make up."

It would be Christian to pray for it too; but if making up means having her in this car, I
should have to pound the prayer into my heart like a nail.

There was no luggage in the other car, so I guessed that they were trying it, to see whether
they might like to hire it for their trip. And, in spite of Mr. Norman being so kind and different
from his sister, I couldn't help hoping that they might begin with another part of Scotland
from ours.

I kept on thinking of them as we wound through the traffic, though dear Mrs. James continued
to talk in an approving way, suited to my intelligence, about Carlisle, and what a wonderful
place it was, and how proud we ought to be of it. How wide and well-built the new streets were,
and how interesting the old ones! How good for the complexion were the winds that blew from
the great moorland spaces beyond the town! I hadn't thought much about all that myself, but
certainly Carlisle is romantic as a city, because in history you see how it has always been
a solid bulwark of the English, against which tides of invasion dashed themselves in vain--a
sort of watch-tower, whence England gazed out across the border where danger lay in wait. I
can't help turning my mind to the romantic side of things, though it may be silly; but, after
all, it's just as real as the other side. Both are there, and you can choose which you like
to have for your own, as I said to Mr. Somerled.

By and by we came to the Cathedral. I had to confess that I'd never been in, but I didn't mention
Grandma's prejudice against cathedrals. I'd never pined to see the inside as I should if the
outside were tall and graceful and gray, instead of dumpy and red--an ochre-red colour which
is interesting only when the sun shines on it, or when wet and sparkling with rain, in the
midst of its lovely old trees. I almost gasped with joy and surprise, however, when we entered,
for the interior is wonderful. It is as if the builders had had in mind an allegory about a
plain body and a glorious soul.

Who would have thought that Mr. Somerled would remember so much history of this northern country,
after living, since he grew up, in America, and making fame and fortune there? Mrs. James thinks
that he even talks like an American. She is a good judge, because more than half the customers
of her curiosity shop are Americans, and they chat with her about all sorts of things. She
reads her husband's history books, in order to give him an agreeable surprise when he comes
back, and the knowledge she picks up is money in her pocket, because she can pour out floods
of information upon inquiring tourists. When she's kindly told them all about the Romans in
general and the Augustan Legion in particular, and the Museum, and William Rufus's Castle;
about the Cathedral having been robbed of most of its nave to rebuild the city walls in 1644,
and Sir Walter Scott being married to his pretty French bride there (or rather in St. Mary's
Church, which was tacked on to it in those days), and so on, Americans, and even canny Scots,
can't sneak out of her shop without buying something.

I loved the immense simplicity of that Norman nave, with its huge crumpled arches crushed into
curving waves by the long-ago collapse of the foundations and the strain of centuries on the
masonry. It was a startling contrast to go from the Norman part into the choir, all a mass
of carving and decoration, with its vast east window of jewel-like thirteenth-century glass,
which Mr. Somerled pronounced finer even than the windows of York and Gloucester cathedrals.

It seems that, although he hasn't been in Scotland since he left seventeen years ago (vowing
never to return until something or other happened), he has been in England several times meanwhile,
and travelled all over Europe. He pretended that he wasn't at all excited about crossing the
border after these many years' exile, but when I cried out that I couldn't believe him so commonplace
and dull, he opened his eyes wide, as surprised as if I'd boxed his ears. Mrs. James whispered
that I had been rude; and when I stopped to think, I realized how unlike Mrs. West I had been.
She is so gracious and complimentary to Mr. Somerled, never saying anything she thinks he might
dislike. But he heard Mrs. James's whisper and said, "You must let her alone, please, my Lady
Chaperon, because I have a sort of idea she is going to dig me up by the roots, and hang me
up to air, and altogether do me a lot of good in the end."

They both knew much more about the Cathedral than I did, but even I knew something, because
there was a book of father's which I had read. So, when they'd explained that the beautiful
pink columns and the painted oak screens looked new because Cromwell's men whitewashed everything
when they stabled horses in the Cathedral, and the white wasn't scraped off till comparatively
lately, long after the Cathedral was a prison in 1745, I told them something they hadn't learned,
or had forgotten. I was proud to have a story about Bruce coming to Carlisle to take his oath
of allegiance, before the great repentance, and hating the Cathedral ever afterward.

Even the Castle doesn't look as splendid from outside as it really is. It's like an enormous
box, a good deal battered and patched, containing a kingdom's treasures. But of course I didn't
know about the treasures until I had been in.

I had set my heart on seeing the place, because, as I said to Mr. Somerled, I may never come
back to Carlisle once I begin to live with mother and go about with her. It was a blow to be
told at the entrance gate where the public enters (and where there ought to be a moat, but
isn't) that the Castle was closed for repairs. Even a grown-up man like Mr. Somerled, who has
seen everything, looked disappointed; but I suppose he couldn't fight his way in against the
power of England; and we should have turned ignominiously away if it hadn't been for Mrs. James.
"You are surely not aware," said she in the aristocratic, long-worded way she has when she
thinks of living up to the doctor (and when she isn't in earshot of Grandma) "of the distinguished
identity of this gentleman. This"--with a wave of her tiny hand--"is the great portrait painter,
Somerled. I will not introduce him as 'Mr.,' for he is as far above that designation as Shakespeare."

The poor wretch who had refused us was flabbergasted. "Excuse me a minute, mum!" he muttered,
and darted off to return with a young officer before "the Great Somerled" had time to remonstrate.
But, instead of devoting undivided attention to the celebrity who must be appeased, the officer
looked at me, and we recognized each other. His face changed, and I know mine did, because
my cheeks felt as if some one had pinched them. No wonder, because this had been my ideal for
almost a year, before I saw the photographs in shop windows of Robert Loraine, and I had dreamed
several times that I was engaged to him, with a gorgeous diamond ring, and afterward that I
was his widow in one of those sweet Marie Stuart caps. It almost seemed as if he might see
the cap in my eyes, so I hurried to look down, and appear as calm as if I had never met him
in the street when out walking with Heppie. Once I dropped my handkerchief, like ladies in
books (only I did it on purpose, which they never do if heroines, not villainesses), and he
ran after us and picked it up. That was, of course, the only time he ever spoke; but, though
I have cared not only for Robert Loraine but Henry Ainley since, I should have known his voice
anywhere. It was disappointing not to thrill; but to be honest, I must admit that the voice
sounded meaningless now, compared with that of the Knight. Nevertheless, he was saying kind
things, offering to be our guide over the Castle and show us curiosities that the "ordinary
public" is not allowed to see.

Just as Mr. Somerled was thanking the officer (I soon found out that he was a lieutenant, named
Donald Douglas) I heard other voices behind me. "Good gracious!" I had just time to think,
"it's Mrs. West and Mr. Norman," when they came round a screen of masonry, and were upon us.
As soon as they saw who we were they stopped, Mrs. West pale, with the same martyred expression,
which grew sweeter and sadder every instant. Mr. Norman shook hands with us in a cordial but
embarrassed way, and the man who had refused to let us enter at first would have headed the
newcomers off, but Mr. Douglas stopped him.

"The Castle isn't open for visitors to-day," he said, "but I am making an exception of Mr.
Somerled's party, and as you are friends of his I shall be delighted to include you."

"You're very kind indeed; but----" Mr. Norman had to begin answering because his sister didn't
speak, and only looked, looked, looked at "her friend Mr. Somerled." Her brother awaited a
cue until the pause grew embarrassing, and then the Knight sprang to the rescue of another
lady in distress.

"We shall be delighted too, Mrs. West," he said.

That was probably what she wanted, for she beamed on the Soldier Man (my Soldier Man), and
accepted his kindness. Mr. Douglas then put himself by my side; and Mrs. West annexed Mr. Somerled,
or he annexed her. This left Mrs. James for Mr. Norman, and they hadn't been introduced: but
they began chatting at once.

Mr. Douglas seemed quite interested when I told him he was the first soldier I'd ever known
outside a book. He asked me if I thought I should like soldiers, and I said yes.

Into the heart of the fortress he led us: into the keep, square, ponderous, forbidding, cool
even on a hot August day, and the best part left now of the proud old fortress.

Mrs. West had a notebook, a little purple and gold one, like a doubled-over pansy. As Mr. Douglas
(laughing at himself because he was not experienced as a guide) rattled off all the information
he could remember about Roman foundations--a sack by the Danes; William the Conqueror, and
William Rufus, and a British fort older than the time of the Romans--she would scribble bits
down hastily. But Mr. Norman took no notes, and when he saw her writing, he looked sad, almost
guilty.

"Did you say the round wall the Britons built is under the keep?" she asked Mr. Douglas, who
is, I feel, the kind of young man you would be calling "Donald" before you knew what you were
doing. "Are there only three fortresses like this in all England? Do tell me what makes this
unique?" And she looked at him so prettily that if I'd been in his place I'd have run to her
like a dog and fawned at her feet. But he never stirred, and simply answered across the other
people, though she is so much more intelligent than I--I, who couldn't describe properly what
is a bastion.

Our guide lit a candle for the dark dungeons, awful places with grooves worn in the stone floors
by the dragging feet of the prisoners, who paced rhythmically up and down in the tether of
their chains. On the walls, covered with a cold sweat, as of deathless agony, we could see
the staples; and there was one spot of a dreadful fascination, where Donald Douglas held his
candle to show a trail of slimy moisture. Always this weeping stone had been there, he said,
no one knew why; and in old days, when these dungeons bore the name of the "black hell," prisoners
tortured with thirst used, animal-like, to lick the oozing patch, making many hollows round
it like miniature glacier mills. After Culloden one hundred and eighty men were thrown in during
one night, and only fifty were alive in the morning.

It made me feel very loyal to Scotland hearing stories like this--though I was proud of the
Castle too. And I loved the tale of Willie Armstrong, Kinmont Willie, treacherously given up
to Lord Scrope, for the worst dungeon of all, by troopers who in taking him violated a border
truce. His escape was a real romance; and I am glad Lord Buccleugh, who saved him, was an ancestor
of Sir Walter Scott.

It was no use appealing to Lord Scrope, the Warden of the West Marches, for justice, so Lord
Buccleugh resolved to make a dash, and rescue the raider, whom he loved. He got forty men (the
English said two hundred, but I know better), attacked the Castle, took it by assault, and
carried Willie, with fetters still dangling from his wrists, clear away across the Eden and
the roaring Esk, where none dared follow. When Queen Elizabeth asked him afterward how he had
dared, he said, "What is there a brave man will not dare to do?"

It was not in the first dungeons that we heard the story of Willie Armstrong, but later, in
the part of the Castle which the public is not allowed to see. We got there by climbing steep
stairs into what are now the soldiers' storerooms: and it's because they are storerooms that
they're kept so private. Once these rooms too were prisons; and behind an immense door of oak,
almost in darkness, are perfectly wonderful wall-carvings cut into the reddish sandstone by
prisoners: figures of men and devils; scenes of history; initials woven into ingenious monograms,
Prince Charlie's among them, and hearts interlaced. I wish I had lived in those days, and I
wondered aloud if there were any girls named Barribel then. Donald Douglas said yes; it was
a very ancient and well-loved Scottish name.

Stupid people in 1835 tore down most of the tower where Queen Mary was imprisoned; but they
were stopped before it was all gone, so luckily there is a corner left, with a few graceful
carvings on the outer wall. And only three years ago a wonderful old table was found hidden
away in a dungeon which, it is thought, must have been used as her dining-table, before she
was whisked away from Carlisle to Bolton Castle in 1568. We saw the table--very dark, very
rough, looking like a prehistoric animal turned to wood; and Donald Douglas said it was perhaps
the oldest table alive in England to-day--as old as King Edward's, and of the shape which gave
an idea later for Tudor tables. As he talked, I could almost see Queen Mary sitting by this
queer piece of furniture eating a poor meal, and reading some book which might help her forget--perhaps
idly fingering the splendid black pearls which Mrs. James said were bought last year in a tiny
shop in Scotland, kept by descendants of a faithful maid who went with her to the scaffold.
And the shopkeeper, who thought they were wax beads, lying in an old forgotten box, sold them
for ten shillings!

They found in another dungeon of the Castle, hidden in a crack of the wall, a silver snuff-box
with a withered finger in it, which must have been a prisoner's "fetich." But it couldn't have
brought him luck; otherwise, if he'd been released, he would have taken it away with him. Probably
he swung on the hanging beam that sticks out over the window of the old "condemned cell."

Next to Queen Mary's table, and perhaps the roof of the keep whence we could see away over
the border into mystery-land, I liked best of all the Castle things a little deserted house
in a courtyard, where Richard III lived for a while, when he was young. Few people know about
it, or are taken to see it. But it alone would be enough to make the Castle interesting if
there were nothing else. Only a few empty, echoing, half-ruinous rooms there are, with a queer
chimney or two to give comfort; but Richard's enemies made it a charge against him that he
lived in Carlisle Castle, splendidly housed in sinful luxury. What a pity all the tales against
him were not so little true as that!

III

We're in Scotland!

Cæsar could not have revelled in crossing the Rubicon as I revelled in crossing the border.
The very word rings out like the sudden sound of bells, or the mysterious music that thrills
one's blood in dreams.

Poor Cæsar was obliged to burn his nice boats, and think disagreeable thoughts about the great
responsibility he had taken, whereas we made our crossing in a beautiful motor-car, and I had
no responsibility whatever. As for disagreeable thoughts, I had a few in England, but the air
of Scotland has chased them away. I see that they were silly as well as selfish thoughts. I
was so wicked that I hoped Mr. Somerled would not make up his quarrel with Mrs. West. I was
afraid that if he did the poor princess he had rescued would be in his way, and that he would
wish her safely back in her glass retort. Now they have made up, yet somehow I don't feel in
the way. He is so kind, and--yes, I must admit it--Mrs. West is so tactful.

It seems that while Mr. Douglas and I were walking and talking together in Carlisle Castle
she apologized to Mr. Somerled. And outside the entrance gates, when Mr. Douglas had shaken
hands, hoping to "run across us" when he gets leave for Edinburgh, Mrs. West walked up to me.
"I've begged Mr. Somerled's pardon," she said, with her pretty smile which never changes, "and
he has forgiven me, so you mustn't go on thinking me an ill-natured, bad-tempered person, please;
I'm not really. Only we writing people have 'temperaments,' just as artists have--Mr. Somerled
himself, for instance. My brother scolded me, and I deserved it. He is so interested in you
and your talent for writing, and wants to be your friend. You won't blame him for my fault,
will you?"

Of course I said no, and she held out her hand. When I'd put mine into it, she pressed it gently,
and before letting it go asked in a lower voice if Mr. Somerled had told me why they quarrelled.

I shook my head emphatically as I answered that he hadn't said a word, and she looked suddenly
much happier. "That is like him!" she exclaimed--if one can exclaim in a whisper. "Well, we
must forget what's passed, and think of the future. Basil and I have hired a car now, and will
travel in it; but that will be all the better for our novel, as I've just been telling Mr.
Somerled, for we shan't have anything to distract our minds from the scenery and our notebooks.
I've begged him to feel no regrets: for now we're friends again, and we shall meet constantly,
no doubt, without any embarrassment, but a great deal of pleasure. As for you, dear little
girl, you mustn't feel that the cloud we've passed through need shadow you. It had to do only
with us grown-ups. You have but to 'play dolls' and be happy, until you're safely tied up in
your mother's apron-strings. Not that she's likely to have any!" And Mrs. West laughed, showing
her white teeth that are almost like a child's.

"Thank you," I said. "I mean to be happy--very happy!"

She looked over her shoulder at Mr. Norman, as if giving him a signal, and he came and talked
to me. He said that he had hardly slept all night, because he was so miserable over what had
happened, for every one's sake, but especially for his own, as he felt that a beautiful hope
had been snatched away from him. "It was the hope of a friendship with you," he added. "But
now we'll take it up just where it fell down, won't we, finding that it isn't broken after all?"

While we were shaking hands I heard Mrs. West tell Mr. Douglas that I was the daughter of Mrs.
Ballantree MacDonald, and he seemed immensely astonished, just as Mr. Somerled had, and Mrs.
West and Mr. Norman.

I wonder why every one is so surprised? Can it be that actresses do not often have children?

We bade each other good-bye, all of us, for Mrs. West and Mr. Norman are going to see some
places that apparently Mr. Somerled doesn't care about; and it isn't quite certain when we
shall meet again. "We shall be like bad pennies, always turning up," Mr. Norman said; and Mrs.
West added quickly to Mr. Somerled, "But if we do, you mustn't feel that we're tracking you
down. The exigencies of authorship force us to be conscientious sight-seers."

As she spoke, she gave her brother a look. I don't know what it meant, but his face had a sad,
tired expression, as if there had been some dispute or argument between him and his sister,
and he was sick of it. I don't feel, somehow, that he's in a good mood for their story-writing
together just now, and I'm sorry for him. I believe he would rather be motoring with us than
with her. Perhaps they have had a difference of opinion about the plot of their book, for he
told me in the summer-house that he'd suddenly got a new idea for a motor romance, and had
lost interest in the old one.

When we were ready to start away from Carlisle Castle, Mr. Somerled condemned Vedder to sit
at his feet; but the man seemed to take this quite for granted, and not to mind in the least.
"Would one of you care to sit beside me?" he asked with so wooden an expression that it was
impossible to guess whether he would prefer Mrs. James or me to say yes. Selfishly, I wanted
him to prefer me, and because he didn't seem to mind, I pretended not to hear, but went on
talking to Mr. Douglas as if he were the most important person in the world. Suddenly I felt
a kind of power over him, as if I were a grown-up woman in a book, and could make men take
an interest in me. Still, I could quite well hear Mrs. James answer that she was too great
a coward for the front seat, but she was sure I would love it. Mr. Somerled turned to me then,
without speaking, as if to wait for me to answer, and I couldn't help thinking, by the look
in his eyes, that he had wanted me, in spite of the wooden expression. So I stopped in the
midst of a word to Mr. Douglas, and said, as meekly as a trained dove, that I should like to
sit in front.

"What a pity you haven't got a congenial, romantic companion in the car, like that lad," said
the Knight, rather sharply, "instead of a war-worn veteran of over thirty."

"Oh, I'd rather have you, because I feel already as if I'd known you always," I explained.
"And do you know, it didn't seem to me there was anything romantic about Mr. Douglas, except
his name."

"In that case, you are a little flirt," said he, driving fast. But when I looked at him in
the greatest surprise, he seemed sorry. "I take that back," he said. "I really don't believe
you know yet what the word means, or what you've done to earn it. Are you contented with me
as a companion, or would you rather have Douglas, or Norman? I should really like to know,
out of sheer curiosity, so you needn't mind telling the truth, for in any case you won't hurt
my feelings."

"Why, but you are my Knight!" I said. And he asked no more questions then about personal matters.
We talked of the scenery, or he let me talk, and said that it didn't disturb him in driving.
He seemed quite to take an interest in what I had to say, as if I had been an intelligent person
like Mrs. West. He didn't laugh at the high-flown ideas I've collected about history, and frontiers
between countries, but said that my enthusiasms were contagious.

"I'd given up all hope of a thrill at crossing the border," he said. "I thought it was too
late. 'What's long sought often comes when unsought,' you know--or rather, you don't know yet,
and I hope you never will. You are making me wonder if, after all, instead of putting off my
homecoming too long, I haven't chosen just the right moment."

I was glad to hear this, though I don't know even now how I managed to give him that idea,
unless by boiling with inward joy, and always insisting that the world's not old, but young--a
wonderful place, where every flower and bird and every ray of sunlight is worth being born to see.

I asked him not to tell me when we came to the border, because I hoped to know it by instinct;
and, as it turned out, I did know. But I think any one with eyes must have known.

Out from old Caer Luel, our road had crossed the Eden where Willie Armstrong escaped, and ran
on white and smooth toward the Solway, whose sands glistened golden in the sun. The tide, which
I'd read of as racing like a horse at gallop, was busy somewhere else, and the river lay untroubled,
a broad, blue ribbon in the sandy plain where Prince Charlie's men and horses once struggled
and drowned.

Now I knew we must be in the Debatable Lands, the hunting-ground of the border raiders, beautiful
wild land, full of the sound of rivers, voices of the Teviot and the Eden, the Ettrick and
the Yarrow, singing together and mingling with the voices of poets who loved them. Through
the country of dead Knights of the Road my live Knight of To-day drove slowly, thinking maybe
of dim centuries before history began, when the Picts and Gaels I have read of fought together
among the billowy mountains; or of the Romans building Hadrian's wall against the "little dark
men"; or of the many heroes, Scottish and English, who had drenched the heather with their
blood since then; or perhaps of himself, and the days of his boyhood when he said good-bye
to bonny Scotland and went to try his fortune in the New World. Whatever his thoughts may have
been, they made his face at first sad, then hard; I fancied that it was of himself as a boy
he thought, and of his father and mother, whom he will not see when he goes home; so to bring
him out of his brown study I began to tell him a story Mrs. Muir had told me about the border.
It was the tale of the last Picts, and the secret of the heather ale. All, all the mysterious
little dark people had been swept away in a great massacre by the Scots after centuries of
fighting with the Romans; and only a father and son were left alive. "Give me thy Pictish secret
of brewing heather ale," said the King of the Scots, when the pair were brought before him,
"and I may perhaps spare thee and thy son."

Then the dark Pict shut his eyes for a moment, and thought what to do. He thought that the
King would kill him and his son when he had their secret; and he thought of the mead which
had the power of wafting the Picts to the Land of Pleasant Dreams.

When he had thought with his eyes shut, the Pict said that he could not tell the secret while
his son lived, because of the shame he would feel that his own flesh and blood should know
him a traitor. He said this because he believed they would kill the boy quickly without torture;
and the old man was right, for they bound his son hand and foot, and flung him out to sea.
"Now tell us the secret," they said. But the Pict only laughed and answered, "Now I will not
tell, because there is nothing more you can do to hurt me." So they killed him quickly too,
in their rage, and the secret of the heather ale died with him.

Though he liked the story, the obstinate man argued that the last of the Picts were not really
killed in this or any other way; that they had slowly died out as a race, and had married with
the Scots, leaving a strain of their blood in the land to this day. "You know," he said, "that
Somerled of the Isles married a Pictish princess, and so there's Pictish blood in the veins
of the MacDonalds, in your veins and in mine, though I'm of cottage birth, and you are of the
castle."

"I know that story of Somerled," I answered, "and how, hero though he was, he got his princess
by a fraud. It makes Kim seem more human."

"I wonder if his princess thought so?" said Somerled the Second.

"Why, of course she did," I answered him as if I were in her confidence.

When I was in Carlisle, and proud of my English birth, I used to like reading about the great
battle of the Solway Moss, where two hundred English horsemen killed or took prisoners more
than a thousand Scots they'd chased into the bog; but now I've forgotten everything except
that I'm a Scottish lass; and though I'm of the Highlands, and these were Lowland men, I don't,
as I did, love to dwell upon the raid of the Solway Moss. Still, I could not get it out of
my head, and while I pictured it, as I have to do most things, whether I wish or no, I saw
a bridge--a fine stone bridge, flung like the span of a petrified rainbow across a small stream.

"That must be the Sark!" I gasped. "And we've come--we've come to the border!"

"Good lass, to divine it!" said he. And how I liked his calling me a good lass--it was better
than princess!

We crossed the bridge slowly, lingering with half the car in England, half in Scotland; then
suddenly we sprang on gayly, with a rush ahead, past the famous toll-house, which looked exactly
like all its pictures.

"Ho for Scotland--our ain countree!" I cried; and though he did not turn to me, I saw his profile
looking flushed and glad.

"Now you should take back your own name of MacDonald again, from this very minute of crossing
the border," I said, when I had drawn in my first long breath of Scotland. "Somerled's a grand
name, yet it was only the foundation of MacDonald. But I forgot! You've made your fame and
money as Somerled. Which do you love more--your Scottish blood or your American fame and fortune?"

"Blood is stronger than water, and fame is running water," he said. "As for the money, I've
cared too much for it--at least for the power it gave me. I didn't make the most of it with
my pictures, and greed led me to love it better than my true work. That's why I lost the way
to fairyland, little Princess. I buried myself under the 'shields and bracelets,' and I buried
my talents, such as they were. For a while Somerled tried to deserve the great name he had
chosen--but only for a little while. When by accident he grew rich, he began to wallow. Not
a picture worthy of his boyish ambition has he painted for five years. What he has done have
been 'potboilers.' He forgot that he was an artist, and wanted only to be a millionaire. Disgusting!
Now that I've told you this, do you--a MacDonald--bid me to take the name again at the border,
where, as a boy, I laid it down--long ago, with high hopes and vows romantic enough to please
even you?"

"Yes," I said, "I, a MacDonald, bid you to take up the name, and with it all the old hopes
and the old ambitions, as you come back into your own land. Forget your silly money, and remember
only that you're an artist in a lovely motor-car. Won't that make you happy--and a boy again?"

"Something is making me happy--and a boy again," he echoed.

IV

Any dull body who says that the minute you're over the border everything is not changed, can
have no eyes--nor nose, because even the smell is different. It is--I'm sure it is--the adorable
smell of peat. I have never yet smelt peat, but this is like my dreams.

Oh, how beautiful everything was as we crossed the span of the stone rainbow! A fresh wind
had sprung up and out of the brilliant sunshine a shower was spurting, like diamonds set in
gold. I saw the dazzling sight with eyes full of rain and curls.

"Here we'll find the rainbow key--on this side the bridge, in the keeping of the Border Saints
or Wizards," said I; for the hills and lowlands that rolled away to the making of Scotland
had a colour as if stained with the fadeless, dried rainbows of centuries. Mingled with peat
was the tea-rose scent of summer rain and of running water, which is as the fragrance of fresh-cut
melons. Clouds like huge white brooms swept the sky, and surging suddenly round us was a wave
of sheep, charming, reserved, Scottish sheep with ears of a different shape from the English
kind, like those of exaggerated rabbits. They looked at us with horizontal eyes of pale brass
cut across with narrow slits of jet, and their thick wool, wet with rain, sparkled as if encrusted
with diamond dust. With them was a collie, much collie-er than English collies, with a pawky
Scottish smile. Not that I know what pawky means, but it seems a word I ought to use at once,
now we are on Scottish soil.

Nobody need tell me that the first houses of Scotland have any resemblance to the last houses
of England. Maybe the country hasn't had time to change much, just in crossing the bridge.
I won't argue about that. But the houses are as different from English houses as Scotsmen are
from Englishmen. Could you ever mistake a Scot for an un-Scot? No! Our wide-apart eyes and
our dreamy yet practical expression, our high cheekbones, our sensitive, clear-cut nostrils,
and the something mysterious in our gaze which no one can explain or understand, not even ourselves,
is all our own. I have just found this out since crossing the border. And am I not a MacDonald
of Dhrum?

I can't say that the first Scots I met--men, women, or children--looked like descendants of
the robber hordes who used to make the Borderland their home; yet I paid them the compliment
to believe they were such. And you never would dream that the great-great-grandchildren of
raiders could have built for themselves the mild, solid, self-respecting houses these people
have dotted along the road where King Arthur passed, and where some of the most romantic battles
of history have been fought. But so it is. And there the houses are. The people have found
a kind of stone to build them with, which looks like pressed roses; and there are door-stones
and even gate-stones of such an incredible cleanness, that some women must devote their whole
lives to their service, as nuns do to prayer.

Soon we came to the village and the post-office of Gretna Green, bristling with picture post
cards. There was the expected group of whitewashed, one-story houses plastered with exciting
notices: "Old Priests' Relics," "Marriage Registers Kept," and delightful things like that.
So far, the scene was just what I'd imagined; but there was one feature in the picture which
made me feel I must be dreaming, it was so surprising and extraordinary.

In front of the Blacksmith's Shop stood the quaintest vehicle out of a museum. It was an antique
chaise such as no one in the last five generations can have seen except in an illustrated book,
or an old coloured print. Two handsome gray horses were harnessed to it, looking quite embarrassed,
as if they hated being made conspicuous, and hoped that they might not be recognized by their
smart acquaintances. As we came gliding past, they turned away their faces, lest our motor--christened
by me Gray Dragon--should regard them with contempt. By the horses' heads stood a gorgeous,
grinning man, dressed in livery such as postilions may have worn a hundred years ago. Talking
to him was a blacksmith of the same remote epoch, with knee-breeches showing under a leather
apron, a great hammer in his hand, and on his head a high, broad-brimmed beaver hat balanced
on a white wig. Not far off were two men in modern clothes; and they were placing in position
some kind of a photographic camera.

When they saw that we meant to stop at the Blacksmith's Shop, they brightened up, and seemed
as much interested as if they had never before seen an automobile.

"They're going to take photographs of a Gretna Green wedding of ancient times, for a biograph
show, evidently," said Sir Somerled MacDonald, and quickly explained to the late prisoner of
the glass retort the nature of a biograph. "Rather a good idea that! Apparently they're waiting
for their chief characters, the bride and groom."

He was helping Mrs. James to get down from the car, and I had already jumped out, for, of course,
we wanted to visit the old house, and see everything there was to see, in the place where Shelley
(maybe!) and hundreds of other famous people have been married. But before going in, we lingered
to stare at the chaise, which was rather like an immense bathtub, the kind we used at Hillard
House, where Grandma would have no such new-fangled innovation as a bathroom. As we stood there,
one of the men with the camera came up, hovered undecidedly, and then said, with a cough to
draw attention to himself: "Excuse me, sir, but will you pardon the liberty of my asking if
you and the young lady will oblige us with a great favour?"

Sir Somerled frowned slightly, with his millionaire manner, which is not so nice as the other.
"What is the favour?" he inquired.

"Why, sir," the man explained, "we're in a bit of a hole. You can see we're here to reconstruct
a runaway wedding for a cinema show. We represent the North British Biograph Company, and we've
been to a lot of trouble and expense to get our props together. Pretty soon the father's coach
will be along, and we've got all we want except the two principal figures. The bride and groom
we engaged have failed to turn up. We can't make out what's happened, but they ain't here,
and we've searched the neighbourhood without finding anything we can do with in their place.
The light's just right now, after the flurry o' rain, but by the look o' the sky it won't last;
and altogether it seems as if we'd have our trouble for our pains unless you and the young
lady'd consent to help us out. If you'll allow me to say so, sir, in costume you'd be the Ideal
Thing."

For an instant Sir S. looked as haughty as a dethroned king. Then the funny side struck him,
and he laughed. "You flatter us," he said; "but I'm sorry we can't do what you ask. Perhaps
your people will turn up, after all."

The poor man looked bitterly disappointed, almost as if he would cry, and so did the other,
who had been listening with enormously large red ears like handles on a terra-cotta urn. Both
men were wet with the rain, which had fallen sharply and only just stopped as if to welcome
us over the border. The one who had spoken turned sadly away, without venturing to urge his
point (Sir S. isn't the sort of person strange men would take liberties with), but in retreating
he threw one agonized look at me. I couldn't resist it.

"Oh, do let's stand for the bride and groom!" I pleaded. And foreseeing a battle the photographer
hastily retired into the background to let us fight it out. "It would be such fun. I should
love it. You know, I've always vowed to be married at Gretna Green, if at all. And this would
be next best to the real thing."

I gazed up at Sir S. as enticingly as I knew how, and there was a look in his eyes that frightened
me a little. I was afraid I had made him angry; yet it wasn't a look of crossness. I could
not tell what it meant, but his voice in answering sounded kind. As usual, when he has been
particularly grave, he smiled that nice smile which begins in his eyes and suddenly lights
up his face.

"You'd better wait for the 'real thing' and the real man," said he. "Be patient for a few years.
You've plenty of time."

"I may never get another such good chance," I mourned. "You are unkind! It would amuse me so
much, and it wouldn't hurt you."

"Do you think that's why I say no?" he asked. "You think I'm afraid?"

"Yes, I do," I insisted. "You're too proud to do what will make you look silly--because you're
the great Somerled."

"By Jove!" he said, and his face flushed up. "If you say much more I will do it--and hang everything!"

"I do say much more!" I cried. "Much more--and hang everything."

"Very well, then," said he. "Your blood be on your own head."

"My head's red enough already!" I giggled. "Oh, what fun! You are good, after all."

"Am I good, Mrs. James, or am I bad?" he asked, turning for the first time to her, as if he
were half inclined to change his mind. But she only smiled. "I can't see that there's any real
harm," said she. "It does seem a pity that these poor people should have come all this way
and spent all this money for nothing, don't you think so?"

"I wasn't thinking of them. I was thinking of Miss MacDonald."

"I'm thinking of her too," answered Mrs. James, as seriously as if she were deciding something
important. "If you don't mind on your own account, why----"

He laughed. "Oh, as to that!----Well, come along, Miss MacDonald----"

"Barrie," I reminded him.

"Barrie! On with our wedding toggery, and let's be quick, if we don't want an audience."

He called the photographer rather sharply, and put him out of his suspense. "You must thank
the ladies' kind hearts," he said. "They can't bear to have your scheme end in smoke. Tell
us what you want us to do, and we'll do it--anything in reason. But you mustn't expect the
bride to show her face. She must keep it turned aside."

"That'll be all right," said the man, "though, of course, we should have preferred----But after
your great kindness we mustn't ask too much----"

"Certainly you must not," Sir S. caught him up. And then the other photographer, who had darted
across the road to the chaise on hearing the good news, opened a bundle that lay on the seat,
and hauled out the contents.

Mrs. James began to be interested in the game, and the people who lived in the houses were
delighted that they were not to lose their hoped-for excitement. Luckily, as it was lunching-time
for most travellers, the road was empty, and it seemed likely that we might finish our play
without spectators. The only moving things in sight at the moment, except our own group, were
one cat, two dogs, and a vehicle even more quaint than the chaise in front of the Blacksmith's
Shop. It was a coach like Cinderella's, though not so pumpkiny. It was drawn by two nice brown
horses who might have begun life as rats. On one rode a postilion, and out of a window leaned
an old man in a tall hat and a brown coat with brass buttons and a high velvet collar and ruffles
at the wrist. His hair was powdered, and he wore a white stock wound round his throat. If we
had met him on the road, without an explanation, we should have thought that we had gone mad,
or had seen a ghost; but now we knew him for the bride's angry parent pursuing her relentlessly
with a coach and pair. It did sound odd to hear this fine old English aristocrat bawl out in
a common voice, "Ain't ye ready yet--what?"

One of the photographers ran along the road and explained and gesticulated. The coach stopped
at a distance. I flew into the Blacksmith's Shop to put on my wedding things, and Sir S. disappeared
next door with clothes under one arm and a hat under the other. I should think no bride and
bridegroom ever dressed in such a scramble.

Mrs. James, dimpling and fussing, hustled me into a green brocade gown which smelt of moth
powder, and was so big that it went on easily over my frock. Then came a purple silk cloak
with wide flowing sleeves and a romantic hood. One of the photograph men stood by to direct
us; and when Mrs. James was putting the hood over my head, he stopped her. "Madam, if I might
ask the young lady to take the pins out of her hair," he begged, quite red with eagerness,
"we shall get a great dramatic effect if it tumbles down with the pulling back of the hood,
just as her lover helps her out of the chaise."

Her lover indeed! Sir S. would have glowered; but I laughed, and out came the hairpins, for
the good of the game. I have always had to "make believe" all alone, so it was extra fun having
such a grand playfellow as Sir Somerled--whether he liked it or not. And I determined that
I would make him like it! I wanted him to play properly, and not be stiff and disagreeable
and grown up. He was ready before I was, and waiting; for it took a little while stuffing all
my hair safely into the hood, and practising how to let it fall at the right moment. I hadn't
quite realized that my playmate was really handsome, in his dark, proud way, till I saw him
in a wavy brown wig with a ribbon-tied queue, a broad-brimmed hat that sat dashingly on one
side, shadowing his face; a blue overcoat with a cape, and high boots drawn up to his knees.
He looked so splendid, and so young that suddenly my heart beat as if I were really and truly
in love.

"If you should look at yourself in the glass," I said, feeling shy, yet, wishing him to know
that he was nice, "you'd never say again that you've outgrown romance. No one would suspect
you of being anything so dull as a millionaire. You ought to paint your own portrait in that
costume."

"Thanks," said he, "I'd rather do you in yours." But I think he was pleased.

The photographer and the postilion both came forward to help, but Sir Somerled wouldn't let
his bride be touched by them. He handed me into the chaise himself, and sat down by my side.
Off trotted our horses to a little distance, and turned round again. The show was ready to begin.

Meanwhile, the others had been busy. They'd placed an anvil, real or imitation, on the green
in front of the house, for the pictures were all to be taken out of doors. The blacksmith had
begun to hammer away at a horse-shoe, and that was our signal to dash up to the door. He stopped
hammering, pushed back his hat, and greeted us in pantomime. Sir Somerled, playing his part
well since it must be played, swung me out of the chaise with an arm round my waist. Down fell
my hood and my hair, blowing round his face and hiding mine. He kissed my hand as the blacksmith
ran off into the house to get his book; and by this time I was almost as wildly excited as
if we had eloped. The camera was grinding out photographs of everything that happened, no doubt,
but just then I forgot all about it, or that any one was looking at us. We clasped hands over
the anvil, Sir Somerled and I. As the blacksmith made the motions of marrying us in haste,
I looked across at my playfellow, and at the same instant my playfellow looked across at me.
I wanted him to smile, and he would not! "Please pretend you're delighted to marry me," I mumbled.
"Can't you see by my face how glad I am to get you?"

"So should I be to get you, if I were the fairy prince," said he, in so kind a voice it was
a pity the biograph couldn't snap it. I squeezed his hand to thank him for playing up to me,
and he squeezed mine to show that he understood. I felt suddenly that we were the best and
truest of friends. Even meeting my mother can't make up for losing him out of my life, though
he has been in it such a short time, and strayed in only by accident.

Whole we stood hand in hand, along came the red coach. Out leaped the father, as the postilion
drew his horses up, and the bride sought refuge in the bridegroom's arms. It did seem real,
and exciting!

"Too late! We're married," said I. But even that was not the end of the play. The father had
to threaten the bridegroom with his pistol, and the bride had to throw herself between the
two men. I can see now what fun actresses have. I was quite sorry when it was all over and
the biograph men were packing up to go.

"We don't know how to thank you enough, miss," said the one who appeared to be the leader,
"for persuading the gentleman. If you'll give us your address we'll send you reduced copies
of the series of pictures."

An address! I didn't know what to answer, for at present I possess no such thing, though I
thought it would sound queer to say so. I looked for Sir Somerled, but he had walked away down
the road to our motor, which was hiding from the camera. His back was turned to me, but I could
see that his suit-case had been taken down from its place, and he was putting something in it.

"I don't know whether I ought to mention this, miss," said the biograph man, "but you might
be interested to know that the gentleman has bought the costume you wore in the wedding-scene,
and paid a good price for it. That's what he's packing away now, I presume."

"Oh! And did he buy his own costume, too?" I asked.

"No, miss, only yours. I thought you might like to know."

I did like to know. And I supposed that Sir S. would tell me all about it when he came back,
explaining that he'd got the things for a model to wear in some picture; but not a word did
he say--which puzzled me so much that all the sight-seeing inside the Blacksmith's Shop could
not take my mind off the mystery.

I sat in one of the marriage chairs, and looked at the pictures of the old priests, and read
about the many famous runaway couples since 1754, beginning with Penelope Smith, the prettiest
girl of Exeter, who married Prince Charles of Bourbon, brother to the King of Naples. But all
the time I was thinking hard about myself and Mr. Somerled, and wondering why he had secretly
bought the wedding-dress.

The guardian of the house made us write our names in the visitors' book, which Mrs. James thought
exactly like signing the register at a proper marrying. And I said, "If nobody ever asks me
to be his real wife, I shan't be as badly off as other old maids, because, whatever happens,
I have had my wedding--a wedding at Gretna Green!"

V

We had a bridal sort of luncheon in the car, which was shunted off the highway into a green
shadowed road abandoned to summer dreams. Mrs. James and I were like the flowers of the field,
and had given no thought to food, or where or how we were to get it. We supposed vaguely that
when we grew hungry we should stop at some inn and eat; but Sir Somerled had a surprise in
the shape of an American invention called a refrigerator basket, nickel-lined, with an ice
compartment walled in with asbestos or something scientific. He said that it had been a present,
and he'd promised to bring it with him on this Scottish trip, which it appears he was ordered
to take as a rest cure. On the lid of the basket, in a conspicuous place, is a silver plate,
saying, in beautiful old English letters, "To Ian Somerled, from his grateful model," and underneath
a monogram "M. M." in the raised heart of an elaborate marguerite. As we ate ice-cold chicken,
salad, and chilled wild strawberries of the north, Mrs. James began with a gay perkiness to
tease Sir S. about the "grateful model," whose name must surely be Marguerite; but I put a
stop to that. The hour after a wedding at Gretna Green is no tune for talk of any woman-thing
except the bride; and as I may perhaps never be anybody's real bride, I insisted on my rights.
This carrying on of the Gretna Green game rather scandalized good Mrs. James, but when she
scolded me gently for my "childishness," Sir S. said, "Do let her be a child as long as she
can. It would be well for every one of us if we kept something of our childhood all our lives.
Just now I'm finding childhood gloriously contagious. I don't know how many years I've thrown
off in two days' time, since this child princess commanded me to play with her."

This nipped the scolding in its bud (not that I minded it), but I'm sure dear Mrs. James still
thought my bride-game had been played too long, and she switched the conversation to the real
romances of Gretna Green--so breathlessly thrilling, some of them, that I was ashamed to hark
back to the subject of ourselves. Not that Sir S. wouldn't make a hero for my romance. I feel
that under his quiet, sometimes tired manner, there's a hidden fire, and I want to find out
what he is really like, if I can. The study of such a man will be more interesting and even
more mysterious than peeping through the keyhole of the garret door, into what I used to call
"fairyland." Already that seems long ago.

No one would guess, who had only seen Mrs. James with Grandma, how much the little woman knows,
or how nicely she can talk, and I blurted this thought out, before I stopped to reflect that
it might sound rude. An hour passed like five minutes in listening to her story of the Lord
Chancellor's wedding at Gretna, and Lord Westmorland's shooting of Banker Child's horse, to
save his young bride from capture by her father; the tale of Robert Burns almost inveigled
into marriage by a pretty girl he met on the road; and best of all the exciting history of
the brave lass of Langholm, who ran through brooks and bushes to snatch her lover at the last
minute from a rival he was marrying in the Blacksmith's Shop. This last anecdote had been "the
doctor's" favourite. One chapter of his history was devoted entirely to the Old Glasgow Road.
In it he gave three whole pages to the young man's bet and the two lassies who were ready to
help him win it. "The doctor was romantic at heart," explained Mrs. James, sighing, and pausing
with an ice-cold chocolate éclair in her hand. "All romance appealed to his imagination, and
in his notes he gave much space to Gretna Green, from the day of Paisley, the first priest,
up to the present time, when couples marry in the Blacksmith's Shop in fun and not in fear.
But," she went on, anxious to impress the great Somerled, "Doctor James gave space in plenty
to the serious history of the Road: the Raider episodes; the journey of Queen Mary; the march
of Prince Charlie's Highlanders in charge of Cumberland's soldiers, on their way to prison
at Carlisle; the tramping of many penniless Scottish geniuses seeking their fortune in London
town; the visits of famous men like Scott and Dickens, and Edward Irving the preacher, who
made his bride get down from her carriage on the bridge, and walk on foot into her adopted
country, England."

Mrs. James always grows excited when she talks about the doctor and his unfinished history
of Scotland; and though she'd known Sir S. only a day and a half, she was mesmerized into telling
him secrets Grandma couldn't have dragged from her with wild horses. She even showed him Doctor
James's photograph, which, in a shut-up velvet case, she had put into the handbag Sir S. gave
her. "Do you, an artist, with your great knowledge of human faces and the souls behind them,
believe a man with those eyes and that forehead would take his own life to escape scandal?"
she appealed to him. "Wouldn't it be more natural to disappear, trusting to his wife's faith,
until he had made a new career somewhere and won back the honour of his name?"

Very gravely Sir S. examined the photograph, which she had painted in water colours, rather
faded now; and I looked at it, though I've seen it before. Apparently he was sincerely interested
in her story, and in the picture. But then he seems interested always, in a quiet way, in what
people tell him, never interrupting or talking of himself and his affairs, as Grandma does
if any one comes to see her. "You are right, Mrs. James," he said. "That man is a dreamer,
but not a coward. He might do strange things, but never a contemptible one."

"Oh, what a judge of character!" she breathed ecstatically. "And how sympathetic! It's wonderful,
in the busy, flattered life you must have led for many years, how you've kept your kind heart
and generous thought for others. But it's your artistic temperament!"

The great Somerled laughed and looked embarrassed. "My enemies say that my 'artistic temperament'
has been swamped long ago by my love of money-making and getting difficult things to turn my
way. I think the enemies are probably right; but you and this princess would dig up any decent
qualities a man might have left, no matter how deep they were buried under rubbish."

"How do we dig them up?" I wanted to know.

"By being children--both of you--in your different ways."

Then he gave Mrs. James back the faded photograph, with a few more compliments on the doctor's
eyes and the shape of his forehead. It was time to be starting on, but the grateful dear would
not accept his offer of help in clearing up. She sent me away with him down the road to gather
a bunch of bluebells, azure as a handful of sky, to put into our hanging vase--my first Scotch
bluebells. And as soon as we were well away, he began asking questions about Doctor James,
which showed that he really cared. What was his first name? How old was he when he disappeared?
And how long ago was that?

"His Christian name was Richard," said I. "It was seventeen years ago that he disappeared--or
died. And he must have been twenty-nine then, because Heppie says he was too young for Mrs.
James--only a year older than she--which would make him forty-six now."

"You mustn't give her away like that," Sir Somerled reproached me. "I should have guessed her
seven or eight years younger."

"Ah, that's the massage and the skin food and neck exercises," said I, wisely. "She will be
pleased when I tell her what a success you think they are."

"She'll be much more pleased if you don't tell her you've mentioned them, and I strongly advise
you not to. Do you happen to know whether Doctor James had a scar on the left temple?"

"Yes," I eagerly answered. "She's told me about it. That's why he turned the right side of
his face to be photographed. But why? Did you ever come to Carlisle and see him before you
sailed for America as a boy?"

"I came to Carlisle. I may have seen him," Sir S. replied. "But say nothing to Mrs. James about
this conversation of ours. Some time, perhaps, I may tell you why. If not, it's not worth remembering.
And now, I see she's got everything ready, and is waiting for us. So is Vedder. The car's had
a good drink of petrol, and we can be off--for a sight of Carlyle's country. Will that bore
you?" He looked at me almost anxiously, as if something depended on my answer.

"Bore me? Oh, no: I shall love to go there," I assured him.

"Why? What do you know of Carlyle?"

"Not much," I had to confess, "But there were three books of his my father had, which I've
read. And there's a picture of him still in the library."

"Which books? What picture?"

"'The French Revolution,' and 'Hero Worship,' and 'Sartor Resartus,' It was that last one I
read first. I took it off the shelf because it had such a queer name. I wanted to find out
what it meant. Don't you always desperately want to find out what everything means? I do. But
I suppose you know everything by now. Well, I began to read without being so very much interested.
Then, suddenly, my mind seemed to wake up. It was a wonderful feeling, just as if I stood near
to a man who was playing marvellous and startling music on the grandest organ ever made. And
the man who played could sing too. He sang in a voice sometimes harsh and sometimes sweet.
It seemed to me as I read the book that it was humorous and sad, tender and stern at the same
time. And till the very end I was carried along on the wave of that organ music, which had
in it always a thrill of the divine. I never found any other book in the library that made
me feel exactly like that, except Shakespeare--and Grandma had all the Shakespeare volumes
carted off to the garret after she came in one day when I was eleven, and found me reading
'Macbeth.' As for the picture of Carlyle, it shows him, sitting in a chair, with a look on
his face of a sad man alone in a gray world."

"Whistler's portrait! You shall have all Carlyle's works and Shakespeare's for your own. I'll
give them to you," said Sir Somerled, looking at me with an interested look, as if suddenly
he liked me better than he had before.

"Oh, you are good, and I should love to have them," I said. "But now there'll be my mother
I shall have to ask permission of for everything. I must do just what she wants me to do, for
I shall die if she doesn't love me."

"Yes. I'd forgotten," said he.

"I hadn't, for a minute," I answered. "But I suppose, as mother is a great actress, she loves
Shakespeare and has all his works; and perhaps she has Carlyle, too, in her library."

"Perhaps," he echoed.

"Don't you like her?" I asked. "You always look odd, and speak in a short, snappy way when
I talk of my mother."

"I like and admire her immensely," he answered, in that remote tone which tries to frighten
me, and does almost--but not quite. "All the same, I don't think you'll find Carlyle in her
library, so you'll have to let me give him to you. But meanwhile, you shall learn to understand
him better by seeing the little village where he was born, and the house his father the stonemason
built."

So we started off in the car, going back to the highway and along a road which perhaps would
not have seemed extraordinary if it hadn't been made surpassingly beautiful by men who lit
the path of history with a shining light. I had a gay, irresponsible feeling, sitting beside
Sir S. on the springy front seat of the luxurious motor-car, as if I were a neat little parcel
clearly addressed to my destination, and going there safely by registered post. By this time
even Mrs. James had ceased to "bite her heart" when she saw another motor dashing toward us,
or a man sauntering across the road and filling the whole horizon. The car is so singularly
intelligent that you feel it is a friend, too kind-hearted and chivalrous a creature to let
anything bad happen. Of course, about every ten minutes something almost happens, but that
is invariably the fault of other people's cars. You dash up to the mouth of a cross-road which
you couldn't possibly have seen, because it is subtly disguised as a clump of trees or a flowery
knoll; and you discover its true identity only because another motor--a blundering brute of
a motor--bursts out at fifty miles an hour in front of your nose. If you'd reached that point
an instant later, your own virtuous automobile and the wretch that isn't yours would certainly
have telescoped, and you'd have been sitting in the nearest tree with your head in your lap.
But already I begin to notice that you may pretty well count on reaching the danger point (produced
by alien autos) at precisely the right instant, never the wrong one, and this gives you a beautiful
confidence in your luck and your driver: although the real secret must lie in the acuteness
of your guardian angel or patron saint. Vedder, who when young was a champion boxer, is very
superstitious, and Mr. Somerled allows him a large gold medal of St. Christopher on the dashboard.
St. Christopher, it seems, has undertaken the spiritual care of motor-cars, and as by this
time he has millions under his guidance, his plans for keeping them out of each other's way
must be as complicated as the traffic arrangements of a railway superintendent. When I contrasted
the angelic behaviour of our car with the appalling perversity of other people's, Sir S. burst
out laughing, and said that evidently I was born with the motor instinct: that he'd seen women
who took days or weeks learning these great truths, whereas I came by them naturally. "It's
remarkable what a lot of valuable knowledge can be picked up by an enterprising princess in
a glass retort, when the dragon isn't looking!" said he.

"Princesses in glass retorts are perhaps forced to learn lessons tabooed by dragons," I replied
to this; "so if I know things or have thought things that every other girl doesn't think or
know, it's because they were forbidden fruit. They were my only fun."

"They've made you a splendid little 'pal,' if you know what that means," said he. "I'm not
sure the glass-retort system hasn't some advantages for the bringing up of women. The proverb
is that truth lies at the bottom of a well. I begin to think it may be looked for in glass
retorts in the land of dragons."

"You mean that I'm truthful?" I asked.

"Yes. I'm inclined to believe, up to date, that you've remained as transparent as the glass
of your late prison."

"What makes you think so?" I wanted to know.

"Observation--partly. And the way you talk to me."

"What way?"

"Well--that's a knotty question. I can hardly explain, but----"

"I wonder," I began to think out aloud, "whether you mean that I say what comes into my mind
without being afraid you mayn't like it?"

"Er--um--perhaps that covers a good deal of the ground. But what put the idea into your head?
Why should you be afraid of me?"

"I'm not. Only--I've thought that it would be more respectful if I were. You are so celebrated,
you see. That's the first thing I heard about you--I mean, about your being such a famous artist.
I heard you were rich too, but of course that didn't interest me so much."

"No? That proves the benefit of the glass-retort system."

"Why--how, please?"

"Because princesses who haven't been bottled up in them, but have lived in the lap of luxury--and
in the laps of luxurious mothers--understand the value of money, and consider men famed for
their millions worth a dozen who've wrapped themselves up in a few rags of some lesser kind
of fame."

"You call being a great artist a lesser kind of fame?"

"I didn't once. But since I've got into the money-making habit, I've accepted the world's opinion."

"Pooh!" said I rudely. "I don't believe you have, because the first minute I saw you, I felt
sure you were a real man. That's why I just had to speak to you in the station, instead of
one of the others. I knew--by instinct, I suppose, as you say I know about motors. Think of
the glory of being able to create beautiful things!"

"Think of being able to buy them! Jewels and castles and yachts, and all sorts of things that
women love. Motor-cars for instance."

"You could buy motor-cars with money you earned by painting pictures, couldn't you?"

"Yes; but not castles or yachts: and not enough jewels to please princesses who haven't spent
eighteen years in a glass retort."

"Well," I said, "I may be no judge, but I think jewels and castles would be a bother, and I
should be seasick in yachts. Give me a man who brings beautiful things out of his soul, not
out of his pockets. You're very nice now; but you must have been much nicer before you buried
your talents under the shields and bracelets you told me about. Even I know what you mean by
them--and what happened to Tarpeia."

"Even you! I begin to think you were born knowing about a good many things besides motor-cars.
And you are entirely right. I was much nicer before I began to collect the shields and bracelets."

"Can't you give a lot of them away, and do what I said--go back to the time before you bargained
for them?"

"You don't understand how difficult it is to go back."

"But you are back--in Scotland."

"You're right. Now's my one chance to return to my youth and ideals. Bright little Princess,
thank you for polishing up the dulled surface of my soul."

"It's only the surface that needs polishing," said I. "The inside part is shining, even when
the outside looks dim. But I'm afraid you're making fun of me?"

"I was never more in earnest. I'm crossing more than one border with you to-day."

"Borders you like crossing?"

"Great heavens, yes!"

"I'm glad of that," said I, in a self-satisfied way, "for then you won't miss Mrs. West so much."

"Miss Mrs. West? Good Lord, I'd forgotten her!"

"That's very ungrateful and horrid of you, then," I scolded him, "because you and she were
friends, and she knows how to be perfectly charming."

"Yes. She knows how."

"She knows just what to do and say."

"Yes. She's an agreeable--and experienced--woman."

"And if it hadn't been for me, she'd be sitting by you now."

"I have little doubt of that."

"And you would have been happy."

"I should have been contented. There's a big difference between contentment and happiness.
You can't have learned it, yet."

"Oh, can't I! It's all the difference between--between--well, the difference between this borderland
seen on a dark day and seen on a day of sunshine. It's the same landscape, but it doesn't look
the same to the eyes or give the same feelings to the heart. The dark-day feelings would be
calm and quietly pleasant; the sunshine feelings would be full of thrills and heartbeats--as
to-day."

"By Jove, you've hit it!" he exclaimed as if to please me by agreeing. "Full of thrills and
heartbeats--as to-day."

"Then you do feel the romance of everything in this sunshine?" I asked, quick to drag a "yes"
from him while he was in the mood.

"I should say I did. And I'm not ashamed, with you to back me up. But I've a sneaking idea
I should have been ashamed of it with Mrs. West. And I shouldn't have felt the thrills, only
a calm, peaceful pleasure, as in the gray days--contentment. I shouldn't have known what I
was missing, perhaps. I should have respected myself for outgrowing my enthusiasms. But--in
my best moments, Princess, I've pitied people more for not knowing what they miss in life than
for missing the things."

"Yes," I answered, "because it's better to know there are beautiful things, and to want them
in vain, than grub along without knowing of their existence. But all that's got nothing to
do with Mrs. West."

"Perhaps not. Yet it has something to do with me. No need to bother about the connection."

"I won't bother about anything!" I laughed in my joy of life and of motoring, which seemed
one and indivisible just then. "I'm wrapped up in the magic golden web that Sir Walter Scott
and Burns have woven round every mile of this land across the border--our land, yours and mine."

"So am I, caught in the web, lost in it--to my own surprise." He laughed as he drove, his eyes
alert and young. "Burns, by the way, came to Ecclefechan, where we're arriving now. He had
an uproarious time, and wrote verses to the Lass of Ecclefechan, which shows the place must
have been a good deal livelier then than now. Or else, which is as likely, he had a faculty
of squeezing the juice out of the driest, most unpromising fruit--the same faculty you have."

"Perhaps the fruit dried up later," I suggested. "Burns died soon after Carlyle was born, didn't
he? And maybe people began to be primmer when they were forgetting his influence."

"No. Those of us Scots who were meant to be dour were always dour," Sir. S argued, "since the
days of John Knox, and long before. It was partly climate--partly persecution. Both agreed
with our constitutions. But look, here's the little house where one of the greatest geniuses
who ever saw the light in Scotland first opened his eyes. I dare say he didn't get much light--but
he spent most of his life in giving it to other people, out of his own gloom. Wouldn't Burns
have been interested, passing that house (as he must have, in the 'uproarious time' at Ecclefechan),
if his prophetic soul had said, 'Here, in this little dwelling as humble as your own birthplace,
will be born a man as great as you--and one of your keenest critics?'"

I didn't answer, because no answer was needed, and because we were both gazing hard at a small,
whitewashed, double house made into one by an archway joining the two parts together. Coming
from Gretna Green it was on our left in the midst of a gray and white village which would have
looked commonplace if it had not been framed by an immense sky. It was as if this vast blue
crystal case had been set down over Carlyle's birthplace to protect and mark it out from other
places. There was the narrow, high-banked brook--"the gentle Kuhbach kindly gushing by" (as
Sir S. quoted)--which had made music in Carlyle's childish ears, to echo through them all his
life. Perhaps he paddled in the brook on hot summer days, just as little boys were paddling
when our Gray Dragon suddenly broke the respectable silence of Ecclefechan; and I know that
he must have seen stormy sun-rises and fiery sunsets reflected in it as in a mirror, just as
the Lady of Shalott saw all the things that really mattered passing in her looking-glass.

It is the kind of village, and the gray or whitewashed houses with their red door-sills are
the kind of houses, where you would say, rushing through in a motor, "Nothing can possibly
happen." Yet Carlyle happened; and he was an event for the whole world, which now makes pilgrimages
to his birthplace. And I think that when his memory travelled back to Ecclefechan, he would
not have changed it for a garden of palaces and flowers and fountains. Even the wee bairns
playing in the road where Carlyle played, knew why we stopped our car. They pointed out the
Carlyle house, gazing at us in solemn pity because we were poor tourist-bodies, who couldna
bide the rest of our lives in the best village in a' the wurlld.

For my part, I pitied them, because their feet were bare, whereas the poorest children in my
native Carlisle have wonderfully nice shoes, bound in brass. But all the Scot--and perhaps
the crofter--rose in Sir S. when I mourned over the little dusty feet. "Do you think they go
barefoot because they've no shoes?" he asked. "You're wrong. You don't know your own country-folk
yet. They've as good shoes as those Carlisle kids, and better, maybe. It's because they don't
like the feel of the shoes when they play, and they're saving them for Sundays. I did the same
myself. Not a pair of shoes did I have on my feet, except on the Sabbath day, till I was turned
eleven."

It seemed to me that suddenly he had quite a Scotch burr in his voice, and I did like him for it!

An apple-cheeked old body opened the door. On it was a brass plate which would have told us,
if we hadn't known already, that in this house Thomas Carlyle was born. Remembering what he
grew to be and to mean in the big world, the three tiny rooms and the few simple relics were
a thousand times more pathetic than if we'd been led through apartment after apartment of a
palace, seeing christening cups and things under glass cases. They did not seem sad to me,
only a little dour in a wholesome way, as porridge is dour compared to plum-cake. But the cemetery
which we went to after we had seen the house made me want to cry. I didn't like to think that,
coming back here to sleep after all those many years, Carlyle had not his wife to rest beside
him. Lying with his ain folk behind grim iron railings couldn't have consoled him for her absence.
This is the only graveyard I ever saw except the one where my father is buried; and somehow,
it doesn't seem respectful to the dead to go and criticise their graves, unless you are their
friends, bringing them flowers--pansies for thoughts and rosemary for remembrance. It's like
walking into people's houses and opening their doors to look at them in bed when they're asleep,
and can't resent your intrusion, though they would hate it if they knew. I said this to Sir
S., and he partly agreed with me on principle; but he warned me that there are cemeteries I
must visit in Scotland unless I want to miss the last volumes of several interesting human
documents. I don't know exactly what a human document is; still, I suppose I shall go to the
graveyards for the sake of finding out what he means.

He spoke as if I were likely to go to these places with him, and said that he would enjoy showing
me Carlyle's house in Chelsea, which is "more full of the man's heart and soul than Ecclefechan
is." But, of course, he said this without stopping to think. He will go back to America and
forget the forlorn little princess he happened to rescue from a neighbouring dragon. Yet never
mind, I shan't be forlorn after this! I shall have my mother, and mothers are more important
to princesses than the most glittering knights. I shall, of course, travel about with her wherever
she goes, so I can never be lonely or sad. I ought to be even more impatient than I am for
the day to come when she is due in Edinburgh, and I can surprise her there: but I suppose,
having lived without her so long, it is difficult to realize that I'm actually to see her at
last. However, I think of her every minute--or perhaps every other minute; and I haven't fully
realized until to-day how much there is for which I have to thank her: the gayety and hopefulness
she must have kept in her heart, and handed down to me. Without gayety and hopefulness neither
of us would have dared or cared to run away from Hillard House.

I think, far-fetched as it seems, it was seeing Carlyle's birthplace, and feeling the influence
of his parents upon him, which made me understand. Great genius as he was, I wonder if he might
not have been even greater if his mother or father had taught him that it was right to be happy
and wrong to be sad? Sir S. says that Jenny his wife could have taught him all that, if he
had chosen to learn; but he was grown up then, and so it was too late. The sunshine must be
in your blood when you are a child, and then no shadows can ever quite darken the gold--or
at least, that is the thought which has come into my mind to-day.

It was the right thing to turn southward off the Glasgow highway after Ecclefechan, to go to
Annan and see the place where Carlyle got his schooling. The Gray Dragon, travelling slowly
(for it, or "her," as Sir S. and Vedder always say), came to the end of the journey in a few
minutes; but when Carlyle walked along that pleasant shadowy road, carrying his school books,
he must have had plenty of time for day-dreams. Now and then he could have seen the Solway
gleaming, and I can imagine how the beautiful, winding river must have given that grave, wise
boy thoughts of the great river of life, running to and from eternity. We passed close to Hoddam
Hill, where--Sir S. and Mrs. James told me--the Carlyle family lived for a while when Thomas
was grown up, he translating German romances, and his brother working on the farm.

At Annan, looking at the statue of Carlyle's friend, Edward Irving, in the broad High Street,
we came back to the subject of Doctor James, and I heard for the first time the real truth
at the bottom of the bad gossip.

We had got down from the car to look at the statue, and read what it said on the pedestal.
We were not thinking at first about the doctor, but only of Edward Irving, and Sir S. was saying
to Mrs. James how Annan was only one of many towns where statues are put up to the memory of
men once misunderstood and cruelly persecuted in the very place where they are afterward honoured.
It seems that Edward Irving (who loved Mrs. Carlyle when she was Jenny Welsh) had to come back
to his native town to be tried for heresy by the presbytery, after a brilliant career in London
as a fashionable preacher and founder of a new faith. All the theologians of Scotland and crowds
of other people (Sir S. says all true Scots are theologians at heart) came pouring into Annan
by coach and chaise on the great day of the trial; and in spite of Irving's passionate appeal,
he was found guilty by a unanimous vote.

Talking of the trial, and of the preacher's death the next year, took Mrs. James's mind to
the subject which is never farther away than at the back of her head. She found a likeness
between Edward Irving's fate and her husband's. "Richard was born in Carlisle and loved the
place, but they believed evil of him and persecuted him," she said. "Some day he will come
back and make Carlisle proud of her son. That's what I expect. That's what I live for." And
she gazed up at the statue of Irving the preacher with quite the look of a prophetess in her eyes.

I was afraid that Sir S. would think her mad; but he seemed interested, as before, and asked
if she had in her mind any particular kind of success her husband might be working to obtain.
Was there something, apart from his profession, and the unfinished volume of history, which
had occupied the thoughts of Doctor James in old days?

The little woman answered this question almost reluctantly, and I soon guessed why. There was
a serum which the doctor had been trying to perfect. It was to be used instead of chloroform
or ether, for people with weak hearts, or when for other reasons anaesthetics were dangerous.
A patient in peril of death had begged Doctor James to try it upon him. The doctor had consented.
The patient had died, and though it was not really because of the serum, but because the man
couldn't possibly have lived in any case, the doctor's enemies had blamed him. "That was what
broke his heart," Mrs. James explained, still staring at the statue with wide-open eyes, to
keep the tears from falling. "That is why he died to the world which misjudged him."

"And do you think, if he can perfect this serum, he will come back?" asked Sir Somerled.

"When, not 'if.' But I always knew it would take a long time, because unless some rich person
or people had faith and helped him, he would have to get together a good deal of money for
a laboratory before he could make a great success or a great name. And he went away almost
without a penny."

"I see," said Sir S., thoughtfully. "Well, such faith as yours is enough to inspire a man with
courage to push the stone of Sisyphus to the top of the hill. And it deserves a high reward.
I hope the reward may come, and that I may see the day. Now, we must go on, for this afternoon
won't last as long as I could wish."

He helped Mrs. James to her place with extra kindness, almost tenderness, tucking behind her
back the gray silk-covered air-cushion which she says makes her feel she is leaning against
a nice pudding.

Neither of us had asked Sir S. what we were to see next, for we trusted him to choose; but
when we were ready to leave Annan and go back to the high road, he said that the thought of
Galloway was haunting him. "We can spin on to Glasgow by way of Moffat and see a lot of interesting
places; or we can turn west from Carlyle country, for a run through Crockett country," he explained.
"Which, shall it be?"

I was ashamed to confess that I didn't know why he called Galloway "Crockett country"; but
Mrs. James saw my sheepish look, and excused me. "The child has had no novels to read later
than Scott."

"Crockett has done for Galloway what Scott did for Tweedside," said Sir S. "It's his country.
He has made it live. When I give this girl the promised present of Carlyle and Shakespeare,
I must add Crockett. That is, as she reminded me"--and he smiled--"if Mrs. Ballantree MacDonald
allows Ian of that ilk to lay gifts at her daughter's feet."

"Oh, she'll permit Barrie to accept books," said Mrs. James, with her pretty primness. "How
the child will love the 'Raiders,' and the 'Men of the Moss Hags.' Yes, certainly she ought
to see 'gray Galloway.'"

"Galloway be it, then," said Sir S., looking pleased. "But it won't be gray at this time of
year. It will be purple and gold and emerald, and silvered with rivers running between flowery
banks. And it will smell sweet as a Scotsman's paradise, with bog myrtle and peat."

"I too have often wanted to see Galloway," said Mrs. James, "even before I read the Crockett
books; for the doctor devoted a particularly interesting chapter to its history. I remember
well, the ancient name was most romantic: Gallgaidhel, for the country of the stranger Gaels.
That was the heading he gave his chapter, and I fear I did not know what 'stranger Gaels' meant
until I read it. The Celtic Gaels who lived there used to be called Atecott Picts; and though
they were very independent and wild, and the Romans didn't govern them long, they accepted
the Northumbrians as their overlords--oh, it must have been in the seventh century, I think.
And two hundred years later they made common cause with the Vikings: so the other Gaels, who
would have nothing to do with the foreigners, scornfully named the men of Galloway 'stranger
Gaels.'"

"It was just jealousy, then!" said I. "Because the people of Galloway were so broad-minded
and hospitable, and ahead of their times. It's the right country for strangers to visit first----"

"But we're not strangers," Sir S. cut me short. "You and I, Barrie, are coming into our own.
To-night for the first time you'll sleep in your ain countree, under the 'heather moon.'"

"It ought to be a wonderful place, for our first night of the heather moon," I said, half shutting
my eyes--"a mysterious, beautiful, lucky place, to remember always. What shall it be? Have
you decided on what is appropriate?"

"I'd thought of Dumfries," he said. "But it doesn't answer that description, and though it's
in Galloway, it concerns Burns and is out of Crockett land. Still----"

"Sweetheart Abbey!" Mrs. James exclaimed rapturously. "It should be at Sweetheart Abbey that
Barrie dreams her first Scottish dreams."

The knight laughed rather bitterly for some reason. "Are Scottish dreams different from other
dreams?"

"Perhaps," said Mrs. James, "they are the dreams that come true."

VI

It is days later, it seems a long time ago that I wrote of our plan to spend the first night
in Scotland at Sweetheart Abbey--a long time since the night itself; for I have lived more
in these few days than in all my life before.

Soon we are to reach Edinburgh. Monday is the day when my mother will begin acting there in
her new play. I shall see her. It is to be the Great Day of all, the day to which all the others
have been leading up, and I ought to be perfectly happy. So I am! Still, there's one little
heavy spot in my heart. All the yeast of happiness won't make it light. The beginning of the
new means the end of the old. The trip will be over--for me; though the Knight and the Gray
Dragon will go on and have hundreds of adventures without me. They will be my knight and my
dragon no longer. Perhaps I shall never see them again.

Before our days together slip away into the background of my mind (it seems as if they never
could!) I want to write down things about them to keep and read when I am old.

First of all, there was Ruthwell Cross.

We went there from Annan; and as we flew along in the car over a good white road, we could
see across widening waters the mountains of the English Lake country floating like a mirage
along the southern sky, Skiddaw with its twin peaks higher and bluer than the rest. How I love
the names of the Cumberland places and mountains! I made Sir S. say Helvellyn and Blencathra
and Glaramara over very slowly, just for the music in my ears. And when his voice says a thing
it sounds particularly well. I like to hear it roll out such a word as Northumberland, for
instance. The way he says it makes you think of thunder on great moorlands, or a rush of wild
Scotsmen over the border. But the Celtic names he speaks most lovingly, most softly, so that
they ring on your ear for a long time after they are spoken, like an echo of fairy bells.

I did not mean to write all this about him and his voice when I began. There is so much else
to say. Yet, somehow, I keep running back to him in my thoughts, especially now the trip is
nearly over. And while I still cling to the subject, I have found out that he can sing as well
as paint. But the singing belongs to Sweetheart Abbey; and Ruthwell Cross came before.

Mrs. James and Sir S. excited my interest in Galloway by telling me bits from the "Raiders,"
then stopping in exciting places to talk of something else. And somehow Galloway does seem
a country where almost anything might happen--big, sensational, historic things. There was
nothing gray to see except glimpses of the Solway, where the sea poured in its resistless tide;
and that was the gray of polished silver. I had an impression of high hills, blunt in shape
yet strangely dignified, and wide-spreading moors which sent out exquisite smells like lovely
unseen messengers to meet us, as the car seemed to break through crystal walls of wind. Here
and there were piles of pansy-brown peat, ready for burning. Children with heads wrapped in
scarlet flame ran out of cottages to stare at us. Sir S. actually admired their red hair. He
exclaimed suddenly, "By Jove, it's worth crossing the ocean to see that glorious stuff again!
It's the hair of Circe." I don't know when anything has made me feel so much like a kitten
that purrs over a dish of cream. For you know the hair he loved was just my colour, not a bit
less scarlet. What would Grandma say?

It rained once--sharp rain like thin daggers of glass stabbing our faces as the car dashed
through--and the wet road looked like a shining silver ribbon flung down anyhow on purple velvet.
The purple velvet was heather, and I never saw any before we started on our trip, except a
little sad, tame heather in the garden of Hillard House--heather moulting like a bird in a
cage, with all the spirit of the moors gone out of it. But this Galloway heather was real heather,
the heather of poetry; and I knew that by and by I was going to see the heather moon rise over
it. The very thought brought a thrill--and I was glad, as I had it, that Mrs. West was somewhere
else in her own car. She does so damp you, somehow, in your high moments, and make you feel
too young for anybody to care for your crude little thrills or take them seriously.

When the rain stopped, it left a thin white mist floating over the heather, until the sun broke
out and the deep purple was lit to crimson, like a running fire.

I'm not quite sure if all this happened before Ruthwell Church (called Rivvel by the people
near), but in my memory it is part of the same picture, of that first day in Galloway.

I know we skimmed through a little place called Cummer-trees, and then Sir S. slowed down to
show us, he said, one of the "sights of the world." He had never seen it himself, but he knew
all about it, and even Mrs. James knew a little. It is a great advantage to a simple woman
to have had a clever husband, and feel obliged, to live up to him.

We had come not so much for the church as for a wonderful stone cross which it contains, as
a jewel-box contains treasure of pearls and diamonds. This cross is worth countless numbers
of both; and it has a history as intricate as its own strange carvings.

In the manse they gave Sir S. the key of the small old church behind a high wall with steps
up and down: and once inside he led us straight to the north end, where, in a side aisle, we
saw a great shape rise. We must have known it to be a marvel, even if we had heard nothing
beforehand.

The cross used to stand, not in the church, but out in the open long before the church was
built, and it towered eighteen feet tall against the sky. There it lived year after year, generation
after generation, and nobody knew what its carved birds and beasts and hieroglyphic inscriptions
meant. Nobody cared much, until a gloomy set of men in a General Assembly, when Charles I was
King of England, threw it down and broke it up, because it was an idolatrous emblem. Luckily,
some wise person hid all the pieces in the church; but after a while another person not so
wise threw them out into the backyard. There they stayed until a Doctor Duncan thought he would
have the cross put up in his manse garden: and some great Norwegian scholars, to whom he sent
copies of the writings, grew very excited, and contradicted each other about them in 1802.
But no one knew what the letters really meant till the eldest son of the famous actor John
Kemble came to the neighbourhood for a holiday. He was a learned authority on Anglo-Saxon times,
and he discovered that the writing was really Early English, the very earliest of all, the
rudiments of the language which--as Sir S. expressed it--"Chaucer helped to form and Shakespeare
perfected"; because they had to make their words, as well as group them together--which is
all that lazy authors have to do nowadays. The quaint carvings relate to the life of Christ
and saints, and they are described in Latin from the Vulgate; but it was the runic inscriptions
which John Mitchell Kemble puzzled out--a kind of rhymed soliloquy the cross itself was supposed
to speak; and afterward he found the whole thing in an Anglo-Saxon MS. of the seventh or eighth
century, far away from Scotland, in a library at Vercelli, near Milan. But it was written by
the Northumbrian bard Caedmon, in a poem called "The Dream of the Holy Rood."

No wonder Sir S. wished to see Ruthwell Cross. There's nothing else of the kind, he thinks,
so splendid anywhere.

Even then my first wonderful day in Scotland wasn't over, for we had time to see Caerlaverock
Castle, which, according to Sir S., is another of the best things on earth. I suppose, in old
days, when the world was small because it was difficult to travel great distances, it didn't
seem odd to find magnificent runic crosses, and castles, and historic blacksmiths' shops, and
houses of geniuses all standing cheek by jowl within a step of each other. They had to be like
that, or nobody from the next county would ever have seen them: but now, especially to a person
who has seen nothing except in dreams, it is startling, almost incredible.

Caerlaverock, Mrs. James said, was probably Scott's Ellangowan in "Guy Mannering"; so I shall
read "Guy Mannering" as soon as I settle down to live with my mother. We couldn't help getting
a little mixed up with Scott even here, at the gate of the Crockett country; and there were
traces of Burns too, because of our being near already to Dumfries, where he lived for years
and finally died. But the idea Sir S. had set his heart upon was for us to come back to Dumfries
after we had seen Galloway and had run up to Burns's birthplace at Ayr. It would make each
part of the trip more "concrete," he said.

Whether or no the stronghold of the Maxwells was Ellangowan, it was in any case the key to
southwest Scotland, and in looking at the place it is easy to understand why. A great red-gold
Key it was when we saw it, red-gold in the western sunlight in a hollow near the river; such
red and gold colour as the old sandstone had, in contrast with the green of lichen and green
of waving grass, I wouldn't have believed in, if I'd seen it in a picture. I should have said,
"The artist who painted that ruined castle put on the colours he would like to see, not those
he did see." But I should have misjudged him, because the colours were real.

Once there was a double moat all round the vast, triangular castle, and still there's water
in one of them. You would have thought the Maxwell ladies had thrown their rubies and diamonds
into it one wild day when they were escaping from enemies, and that the jewels had lain ever
since at the bottom of the moat unnoticed, though the sunlight found out and treacherously
tried to tell the secret. Think of Ptolemy writing about Caerlaverock, and calling it Carbantorigun!
I'm glad we haven't to call it that now, or I should always have to say it--as one goes on
saying "you" to a person whose name one hasn't caught.

Even if Caerlaverock were in hideous surroundings, it would be magnificent: but the river Solway
is its silver foreground, and Lochar Moss is its mysterious background; so it is perfect in
beauty as in strength, and if only no such hateful things as cannons had been invented, it
would not now be a ruin. Although it lies so low, it was built to resist everything but gunpowder:
for how could the Maxwells dream that all their beautiful arrangements for pouring down molten
lead and boiling oil would be useless against a new foe?

Edward I took the castle in 1300, but Bruce got it back thirteen years later; and there was
much fighting and tossing back of the Key from one hand to the other even before the great
siege when the Earl of Essex punished Lord Herries for defending Queen Mary. Still, the walls
stood bravely, and after the Essex affair they were made stronger than ever--so strong and
so splendid it must have seemed as if Caerlaverock need never capitulate again to any enemy.
But no sooner had the Maxwells finished a lovely new façade, the best they'd ever had, with
carved window and door caps of the latest fashion, than Colonel Home came along with his grim
Covenanters and blew up everything with his horrid cannons. I can't help disliking him, for
the Maxwells seem to have been the most fascinating people. One Lord Maxwell of the seventeenth
century, who was Roman Catholic when it wasn't safe to be Roman Catholic, used to disguise
himself as a beggar, and play the fiddle in the market-place of Dumfries as a signal to tell
the faithful of his own religion where and when they might come to Mass. They understood according
to certain tunes agreed upon, which was easy, as they had only three meeting-places. A nice
old man in the castle told us these stories and showed us the exquisite courtyard where Burns
came one day when he was seventeen and cut on a stone in the wall the initials R. B. in a triangle,
like a masonic sign, which suggests the wedge shape of the castle.

Sir S. knew all about this carving, and said that Americans had offered two thousand pounds
for the stone. But the Duchess of Norfolk, who is mistress of Caerlaverock in her own right,
turned up her nose, metaphorically speaking, at the offer. "I bid ye fair:" is the motto that
goes with the crest over the huge gateway between two towers, and the rumour is that the Americans,
in bidding for the stone of the initials, quoted this motto; but their aptness did them no
good. In one of those towers Murdoch, the blind Duke of Albany, was imprisoned for seven years
by James I before he was executed at Stirling; and they say that in the green hollow where
the great red ruin glows he can be seen walking in the moonlight on the anniversary of his
beheading.

One of my favourite stories in history is about Lord Nithsdale and his brave, clever wife who
saved him on the eve of his execution by dressing him in her clothes and letting him walk calmly
out of the Tower of London in her place. Think of being able to do such a thing for a man you
loved! He was one of the Lords Nithsdale who came from Caerlaverock; and not far away, at Terregles
House, is a portrait of that Countess of Nithsdale, with the cloak which her husband wore when
he escaped. They have a Prayer Book, too, of Queen Mary's in that house, for she gave it to
Lord Herries, who sheltered her in her flight after the battle at Langside, eighty miles away.
But we didn't see these things. It was the old man at the castle who told us of them, because
they are still in the keeping of the Maxwell family, of which he is very proud.

We hurried quickly through Dumfries, not to see or think of the Burns associations there until
we should come back; but at Lincluden Abbey, close by, we were forced to think of him--although,
as far as our trip was concerned, he wasn't born. At Lincluden, where he loved to come, walking
out from Dumfries (as he must have walked to Caerlaverock to cut his initials) he saw the Vision.
And Lincluden is so sweet a place that my thoughts of it, mingling very humbly with the great
poet's thoughts, will lie together in my memory as pressed flowers lie between the pages of a book.

The road which leads from Dumfries to Lincluden seems like a quiet prelude to a lovely burst
of music, so gentle and pretty it is. Then suddenly you come to the promontory stitched on
to the mainland with great silver stitches of rivers, the Cluden and the Nith; and there are
old earthworks, fallen into ruin, which guard the Abbey as the skeletons of watch-dogs might
lie guarding a dead master. There's a mound, too, by the side of the ruined church, and it
is called a Mote, which means something desperately interesting and historic, and there's a
Peel-tower in ruin. Indeed, all is in ruin at Lincluden Abbey; but that makes it the sweeter
and sadder. And as we came, the red of the crumbling sandstone burned in the fire of sunset
like a funeral pyre heaped with roses. The melancholy, crowding trees and the delicate groups
of little bushes were like mourners coming with their children to look on at the great burning.

We went into the church to see the tomb of Margaret Countess of Douglas, who was a daughter
of King Robert the Third; and somehow the mutilations of the effigy made it more beautiful,
causing you to see as in a blurred picture the thousand events of troublous times which had
passed over the figure, leaving it through all peacefully asleep. A daughter of a king, with
the Douglas Heart to guard her, she would be too noble in her stony slumber to show that she
minded losing her features and a few other trifling accessories which might spoil the looks
of less important women.

When we came out, high in the sunset glory gleamed a silver sickle, reaping roses. It was the
heather moon, and I cried out to Sir S. as I saw it, "Wish--wish! Your first sight of the heather
moon, and over our right shoulders for luck! Whatever we wish must come true!"

I was so excited that I seized his hand; and he was too polite to give it back to me like a
thing he didn't want. So he held it firmly in his while we both looked up to the sky, silently
making our wishes. My wish was to be that my mother might love me; but I stopped and thought,
"What is the good of making such a wish, when I've only one, and I'm sure to get that one without
the heather moon, as mothers all love their children." This caution was very "canny" and proved
my Scottish blood, I couldn't help thinking, as I paused in order to select the most appropriate
wish for the heather moon to grant.

Several ideas presented themselves with a bow: a wish to be happy: but that wasn't "concrete"
enough, as Sir S. would say. A wish to be very rich and able to do anything in the world I
might like to do; but being rich sounds so fat and uninteresting--or else bald-headed; for
nearly all the photographs in picture papers of desperately rich people are one or the other,
or both. At last I began to be nervous, for if Sir S. or Mrs. James (who was close by) should
speak before I'd given my wish to the new moon, she'd be unable to grant it, even with the
best intentions. That is a well-known fact in connection with wishing by the moon. I have it
on the authority of both Mrs. Muir and Heppie. Being in a hurry, I grew confused, and so could
think of nothing more important than to wish for my knight never to forget me in future, wherever
he may be. And just as I'd finished, he said, "Well? What did you wish?"

Of course I couldn't tell him such a wish as that; but, luckily, you must never let anybody
know what you've wished by a moon or a star, if you want the wish to come true.

I explained this to Sir S., and he said, as far as he was concerned, it didn't matter, for
he hadn't wished after all. "Oh, what a waste of the heather moon!" I cried, for it really
seemed too bad. But he answered that the only thing he particularly wished for just then was
a thing which wasn't fair to wish, on account of the 'other party concerned.' I laughed, and
said if he had wished to wish, he had wished, in spite of himself, and the heather moon had
heard; because that's the business of any well-trained new moon, and the heather moon is the
best-trained of the year. "'The other party concerned' must just take the risk," I said. "And
very likely 'twill be the best thing for him, her, or it in the end."

"I daren't hope that," said he, looking up at the silver sickle as earnestly as if we weren't
talking nonsense.

"Don't you think the heather moon knows best?" I reproached him. But he did not answer, and
only hummed under his breath, as we walked to the waiting car:

    "How far, how far to Gretna?
      It's years and years away--
    And coach-and-four shall nevermore
      Fling dust across the day."

All the way along the shadowy, switchback road from Dumfries going to Sweetheart Abbey (I like
to write the name, it is so pretty and old-fashioned) we had glimpses of the moon scattering
silver through the tree branches as she fell down the west. I thought the soft white curve
like a baby's arm, rounded at the elbow; and it waved us good-night over the heather-clad mound
of Criffel, as a baby might wave over the fat shoulder of a big nurse dressed in purple. It
is cheek of Criffel to call itself a mountain, and of course it wouldn't dare to if there were
other real mountains within twenty-five miles.

When I made this remark Mrs. James asked me where, in my sequestered life, I had got hold of
such an unladylike word as "cheek," but I told her I must have been born knowing it, as there
was never a time in my memory when I didn't. Also Mr. Douglas had used it several times in
Carlisle Castle.

"Haven't you forgotten him yet?" asked Sir S.

"It would be silly to forget, and have to make his acquaintance over again at Edinburgh," I
said. "He asked me particularly to think of him during our trip whenever I should see the Douglas
Heart. Now I have just seen it at Lincluden."

"Douglas Heart indeed! Douglas cheek!" I heard Sir S. mutter.

There is one part of that road between Dumfries and Sweetheart Abbey I shall never forget:
the view from Whinny Hill--a sudden view springing from behind trees, as if a green curtain
had been pulled back from a picture. In this picture there were the silver Nith, and purple
Criffel of course (which always tries to get itself noticed wherever you turn), a great forty-foot
monument put up to commemorate Waterloo; and again the red triangle of Caerlaverock glowing
on the green shore of the Solway Firth.

I suppose the people who were shy of seeming sentimental insisted on calling Sweetheart Abbey
New Abbey. I can imagine Sir S. voting for the change, because I fancy that he would endure
torture rather than be thought sentimental. He describes a place or a thing or a person glowingly,
then hurries to cap his description with a few joking or even ironical words, lest he should
be suspected of romance or enthusiasm.

The village is called New Abbey too, so it is safe to mention that to the driest person. It
was just beginning to be evening, an evening softly gray as doves' wings folding down, when
our Dragon sidled toward an inn it saw, quite a nice little inn, where Sir S. announced that
we would stop the night. Before going in, however, he took us to look at a queer bas-relief
built into the wall of a whitewashed cottage on the left side of the road. It showed three
ladies industriously rowing a boat across the ferry--pious dames who brought all the stones
from Caerlaverock, on the other side of the Solway, to build the Abbey.

"Rock of the Lark" is a delightful name, but Sweetheart Abbey is prettier, and the reason of
the name is the prettiest part. Only I wish that the devoted Devorgilla who built the Abbey
of Dolce Cor to be a big sacred box for the heart of her husband had had a worthier object
of worship than the king, John Balliol. All the history I have ever read makes him out to be
a weak and cowardly and rather treacherous person; but, as Sir S. said, "Mirabeau judged by
the people and Mirabeau judged by his friends were two men"; and I suppose John must have put
himself out to be charming to Devorgilla, or she wouldn't have wandered about with his heart
in an ebony box inlaid with silver, and insisted on having it on the table in front of her
when she ate her dinner. That was one way of keeping her husband's heart during her whole lifetime--and
even after death, for of course she had it buried with her. It must have been glad of a little
rest by that time, the poor heart, for it had so much travelling to do. I suppose it even went
as far as Oxford when Devorgilla founded Balliol College.

The last shaft of the sun was turned off the rose-coloured ruin and the secluded valley where
the cross-shaped Abbey hides from the world; and the moon was gone, too, swept away like a
tiny boat on a wave of sunset. Still, it was full daylight, and Sir S. announced that he had
a plan. This plan was for us to go (as soon as we'd seen our rooms, which he had engaged by
telegram) and get permission to enter the Abbey by twilight, when no one else was there.

The little gray inn of the town looked no bigger than a good-sized private house, but it was
the very first hotel of my life, and I regarded it as an Epoch, with a capital E. That point
of view was upheld later by the heavenly scones and honey they gave us--heather honey, gold
as the heather moon. And we had cool, clean rooms, suitable for the dreaming of sweet dreams.
My dreams there seemed very important.

The great Somerled can of course get anything he wants to ask for if he chooses to reveal himself--anyhow,
in Scotland; because already I am beginning to learn that even the smallest or humblest Scottish
peasant knows all that's worth knowing, not only of the past but of the present, and has heard
of all the celebrities. Maybe there might be miniature places in England, America, Germany,
or France where the poor and uneducated would know nothing of Somerled the painter and millionaire.
But in Scotland, apparently, though there are many poor, there are no uneducated persons. Those
to whom his being a painter would mean nothing would be interested in his money. Those who
didn't care for his millions of dollars would have read about his painting: and all would value
him because he belongs to Scotland.

As soon as our luggage was in our rooms and dinner ordered, Sir Somerled inquired if we were
ready for the Abbey; but Mrs. James mildly asked if we would mind going without her. She had
begun to realize that she was tired, and would like to rest. She could go by herself to the
Abbey early in the morning before starting time. I felt that I ought to mind more than I did,
but I couldn't help liking to be with Sir S. alone. It seemed like the night of our first meeting;
for some one had always been with us, more or less, ever since. It was only a short stroll
through the village, not enough to call a walk. A dear little lady who lives in a nice cottage
close to the ruin opened the iron gate, but she did not go in with us, because it was time
for her supper. She had a photograph done from one of the great Somerled's most famous pictures,
and if he had been a long she could not have been more polite.

At first, the inside of the shell-like Abbey with the beautiful name was a disappointment.
The green grass was encumbered with tasteless graves and flat modern stones which looked as
if they had lain down there without permission.

We wandered about rather forlornly for a while, until we found Devorgilla's thirteenth-century
tomb. Sir S. told me her history, and waked the sad old place to living interest. I seemed
to see the ever-loving lady, followed by her chosen maidens carrying the heart in its ebony
and silver box. And together we made up a theory, that of every event something reminiscent
lingers on the spot where it happened. If only our eyes were different, we should be able,
wherever we went, to see filmy, mysterious pictures painted on air--fadeless, moving photographs
of all the people and all the deeds which have made up the world's history.

This set us talking of our own pictures, which we are leaving behind us as we go through life;
and I couldn't help thinking how he and I, in accordance with this idea, will for ever and
ever go on being "married" at Gretna Green. I laughed at the thought, and he asked me why,
so I told him.

"When you're marrying your real wife, years from now maybe, and have forgotten my existence,
that scene will still be enacting itself," I said, "not only on the films the photograph men
took, but on air films. Doesn't it frighten you?" I asked.

"Doesn't it frighten you?" he echoed. "Because you will marry. I never shall."

"How do you know?" I catechized him.

"If I can't have the wife I want, I'll have none."

"Perhaps you can have the one you want if you ask her nicely."

"I don't intend to ask. I'm not the right one for her."

"You might let her decide that!" I nobly said, for Mrs. West may be the woman. "I do hope,
if men ever love me, they'll tell me so."

"No fear! They will." He laughed more loudly than I have heard him laugh.

"But the right one mayn't, if he thinks as you do."

"He won't. He'll be thinking only of himself. But look here, my girl, be sure you do take the
right one when you marry; for if in my opinion you're likely to make a big mistake when the
time comes, I may be tempted to put a spoke in the fellow's wheel."

"Please do!" I laughed.

"You think I'm joking," he said, watching me in a way he has, between narrowed lids, his eyes
almost black in the twilight. "And so I am to a certain extent. Yet I might forbid the banns,
perhaps--if I chose."

"But how?"

"Haven't you any idea?"

"Not half a one."

"Then I won't tell. It would only worry you--for nothing. Marry in peace, when your Prince
comes, and I'll send you my blessing--from far away."

"I don't like to think of your being far away," I said. "Let's not talk of it. For you are
my only friend--except Mrs. James. And you're so different."

"I thank Heaven!" he said. "And I thank her for wanting a rest. Good as she is, three would
be a crowd in Sweetheart Abbey."

Speaking of her made me think of the time. We had promised Mrs. James to go back in half an
hour for dinner! Already more than half an hour had slipped away as we made our air-film photographs
to haunt Sweetheart Abbey with all its other ghosts.

The twilight was changing to a light more mysterious, and as we looked at each other through
the opal haze I felt strangely that we were changing too. It was as if our realities were less
real than the shadow pictures which were to live on here together forever--as if our bodies,
which would go away and separate, to live different lives far away from one another, would
not be us any more.

I could not have imagined so wonderful a light as that which illuminated the great rose-window
and filled the vast broken shell of the Abbey. It was as if the day had been poured out of
a cup, and night was being slowly poured in--the dove-gray night of dreams. It was pale, yet
not bright like the light of dawn. It was more like a light glimmering over a sheet of water,
a light made of the water itself. Almost I expected to see the Heart rise up in the ebony and
silver box, and the box opening.

"You look like a young seeress," my Knight said. "What is it that you see with your great eyes
gazing through the dusk?"

"I see--a heart," I answered. "I think I see a heart."

"That is very intelligent of you," he said, in a changed tone. "Come, child, it's time I took
you home."

"Is there the ghost of a heart floating here?" I asked, wishing to linger. But he took my hand
and drew me toward the gate.

"To me," he said dryly, "it appears to be a real heart--almost too real for comfort."

We walked back to the inn, and he was uninterestingly commonplace all the way. He talked about
dinner, and buying petrol for the car, and told me dull facts about tiresome things called
carburettors. It would have been a horrid anticlimax, spoiling all the romance of Sweetheart
Abbey, if he had not changed later on. But he did change. There was a little piano in the sitting-room
they gave us, and Mrs. James began drumming out a few Scotch airs, warbling the words in a
high, thin voice rather like that of an intelligent insect. There was one tune I knew, and
I couldn't resist joining in. At the end Sir S. applauded.

"What a pity her grandmamma wouldn't let her take lessons, as I once ventured to suggest!"
said Mrs. James. "She has a true ear, and a sweet voice wonderfully like her mother's, which
I quite well remember. But Mrs. MacDonald had the idea that music lessons would lead to vanity.
Don't you think, sir" (she often slips in a respectful "sir"), "that her voice would repay
instruction?"

"I do," pronounced the great Somerled.

"I'm sure you sing," went on Mrs. James. "I flatter myself I can always tell by people's faces."

"Like Barrie, I never had lessons," he said. "But I suppose we Highlanders are born with music
in our blood."

"Then you do sing?" she persisted.

"Only to please myself. Not that it does!"

"Will you sing to please us?"

"It wouldn't please you."

"Barrie, you ask."

"The Princess commands!" I said, not expecting him to humour my impudence, but he did, by going
at once to the piano. It had lisped and stammered awkwardly for Mrs. James, but it obeyed him
as if the keys were mesmerized. He played a prelude, and then sang "Annie Laurie," in a soft,
mellow voice, so low that people outside the room could hardly have heard. It seemed as if
there must really be an "Annie Laurie" in his life. Surely a man could not sing like that,
and look like that in singing, unless he called up the face of some woman he loved. I wondered
if he thought of Mrs. West, who is so very pretty, and rather like the description of "Annie
Laurie." His eyes looked far away as he sang, through the wall--oh, yes, I'm sure they could
see through the wall at that moment--perhaps as far as "Maxwellton Braes"; perhaps still farther,
searching for Mrs. West wherever she might be.

I don't know how it would make one feel if such a man with such a voice looked into one's eyes
and sang a song of love. I'm afraid it might make one rather foolish. But it was only at the
wall that Sir S. stared until he began a very different song--the lament of a Highlander who
would nevermore see his island home nor the love of his youth. It was a heart-breaking song;
and though his voice was pitched so low it was almost like singing in a whisper, there was
a strange, vibrating power in it, as there is in the strings of a violin touched but lightly
by the bow. Sir S. transferred his attention from the wall to me as he sang this sad old ballad,
and I could not look away, because there was the same compelling power in his eyes as in his
voice. No doubt it was only of the song he thought, not of me at all, really; yet I could not
shake off the haunting impression of the look, and it made me dream of him all night. I saw
him standing beside me in the strange, pale twilight of Sweetheart Abbey. And in his hand was
a box of ebony, inlaid with silver, which he held out. But when I took the box it was locked,
and he had no key. "Only the key of the rainbow will open this box," he said. And then I woke
up, feeling somehow as if the dream were of importance, and I must try to find out why.

VII

Next morning when I saw Sir S. I felt confused and vaguely ashamed, as if something had happened.
But, of course, nothing had happened, nothing at all. I kept on reminding myself of that until
I was at ease again. And his manner helped me to realize how silly I was, for almost he seemed
to go out of his way to put on the commonplace air I had disliked. It was as if he wrapped
himself up in a big, rough coat, smelling of tobacco smoke, and rather old and shabby, with
the collar well turned up.

We started early, long before eight, and Mrs. James remarked, while we were dressing--calling
out from her room to mine through the open door--that there was more credit for Sir S. than
for us in liking an early start. Many men as successful and flattered and rich as he, she said,
would have grown luxurious in their tastes, and lazy. They would loathe getting up at six,
and staying in tiny hotels, and fussing about to help their chauffeurs when anything went wrong
with their cars. They would hate so much having to pack bags and look after themselves that
they would find it impossible to enjoy travelling without a valet; but here was this man, used
to every luxury, and able to command it, putting himself to trouble of all sorts and even enduring
hardships as cheerfully as a "little bank clerk out for a holiday with his sister and aunt."

I agreed with her, and I suppose bank clerks are as interesting a class as any; but I'm glad
Sir S. is not one. And it is more fun being his princess than his sister. Mrs. James may be
his aunt if she likes. I wouldn't be it for all his millions.

He asked her again if she would like to try the front seat, but she politely refused, and then,
with his rough-coat, turned-up-collar-air, he invited me to take it. Something deep down in
me, like a little live creature whispering, told me to make him turn down that collar and throw
off that rough coat. It did seem such a waste, to have him wearing his commonplace airs while
we travelled through the most adorable country we had seen yet. I wanted him and me and the
scenery all to be romantic together, and so I told him at last. "But if I'm determined to keep
on the safe side of romance?" he said.

"If you've decided to be dull and disagreeable," I threatened, "I shan't give you the 'rainbow
key' when I find it. I'll hand it over to somebody else."

"Will you?" he said. "Be sure the somebody else deserves it, then."

This annoyed me. Because I'm looking for the rainbow key for him, not somebody else. "At present
I don't happen to know anybody else I'd care to give it to," I remarked.

"Ay," said he, "there's the rub. You know so few. But it will be different when the princess
has a dozen knights all in the competition."

"Perhaps other knights won't notice that I'm a princess."

"Judging from what I've observed, I think they'll be quick to notice that."

"Well, it remains to be seen."

"Just so. It remains to be seen." His voice sounded sad or bored, so I tried to be tactful
for once, like Mrs. West, and changed the subject.

This was the road which Carlyle thought the most beautiful in the kingdom. Going to Mainsriddle
and Dalbeattie we skimmed through dark, haunted-looking woods, to sudden glimpses of far-down
yellow sands and floating forms of mountains. The tide was running out or running in, veining
the floor of gold with misty blue traceries, and making bright pools like bits of broken glass.
The trees along our way were a procession of benevolent giants holding green umbrellas over
our heads, because they mistook us for expected royalties; and on the smooth white surface
of the road they had scattered shadows like torn black Spanish lace. Criffel followed us everywhere,
trying jealously to keep us from noticing that the noble mountains of Cumberland were still
watching us out of sight, across the Solway Firth. And indeed, Criffel, with some small brother
hills he had to-day collected, like the hasty gathering of a clan, did manage to destroy the
effect of distance so far as he and his brethren were concerned. He and all the rest, no matter
how far off, pushed themselves into the foreground by means of their colour, so violent a purple
that it struck at the eyes, and vibrated in the ears like rich wild notes of an organ rolling
over the uplands of Scotland. Only the sands and the sea looked distant, though really they
were near; and I worried about the groups of cattle gossiping so pleasantly together about
their cuds and calves. They had a placid air of ignoring such large facts of life as incoming
tides, and could never have read what happened to Mary and her cows on the sands of Dee, a
resort only less fashionable in the cattle world than their own.

Lights on sky and sands, seen through the netting of tree branches, were like sweet bursts
of laughter in the forests; and the glory of the heather was a wordless song in praise of Scotland.
Yet in these flying Galloway landscapes there was an impression of the mystic and melancholy,
which reminded Sir S. of "The Twilight of the Gods": strange purple rocks jutting out into
water coldly bright as a sheet of mercury, and desolate islands remote and haunted as the place
where Gunter and his sister lived in the opera. We seemed to be travelling through vast, lonely
places, though it was but a part of Galloway, and all Scotland is but small--just large enough
to give an eyeful of beauty always.

When we came to the sparkling granite town of Dalbeattie (a miniature Aberdeen, Sir S. called
it) instead of going straight on toward Kirkcudbright we turned westward to see the great stronghold
of the Black Douglases. It was no more than seven easy miles to Castle Douglas, a little modern
town all laid out in rectangles. Sailing straight through, we came out on the edge of Carlingwark
Loch, which rings a few green islets with silver; and taking a side road we were close to the
river Dee. There, on a cushion of an island, only big enough to hold it, rose the great ruin
of Thrieve Castle, the home of the proud and magnificent Douglases. Once boats must have carried
the knights and ladies back and forth between the mainland and the fourteenth-century fastness
of old Archibald the Grim. But now I saw a line of half-submerged stepping-stones, the only
way of crossing in these days when there is no fighting or feasting at Thrieve, and no "tassel"
dangling from the knoblike "hanging stone" over the great gate.

    "Workers of high-handed outrage!
      Making King and people grieve,
    O the lawless Lords of Galloway!
      O the bloody towers of Thrieve!"

Sir S. quoted as we stared up at the giant keep, seventy feet high, with its tremendous walls.
"They were a terrible power in the land, that family, at their greatest, when they lorded it
over Galloway and Annandale, and owned Touraine and Longueville in France, and used to ride
out with a retinue of a thousand picked horsemen."

"That nice soldier yesterday--Mr. Douglas at Carlisle--thinks they were a charming family,"
said I. "He has an old proverb something like this:

    "So many, so good as of Douglases have been
    Of one surname in Scotland never yet was seen."

and he told me a great deal about the Douglas Heart."

"He would!" mumbled Sir S. "There were good hearts and bad hearts among them, but all were
great hearts in the old days; anyhow, I'm not surprised that Crockett got inspiration from
this place when he used to play here, coming over from Castle Douglas, where he was at school.
He must have had his head buzzing with story plots when he'd climbed up inside the walls and
crawled out to sit astride of the hanging stone. I'll warrant he saw Maclellan beheaded in
the courtyard while Sir Patrick Gray, the King's messenger, supped with Douglas; and heard
Mons Meg fire off the first granite cannon-ball, that shot away the hand of the Countess as
she held a wine-glass up, drinking confusion to her enemies. No wonder little boy Crockett
got absent-minded one day, when he dropped his watch instead of a pebble in wanting to test
the time the stone would take to fall."

The next bit of Crockett-lore I heard was at Auchencairn in the deep, indented bay we'd reached
by turning south for the coast again. There, it seemed, we were in the heart of Crockettland,
for Hestan Island is the Rathan Island of the "Raiders." All round was sweet, welcoming country,
low mountains and rippling meadows, where it seemed that the Douglas soldiers had laid their
glittering helmets down in long straight ranks on a carpet of cloth o' gold. Over these fields
of garnered wheat came a breeze from the sea, with a tang of salt like a tonic mixture, and
there was a murmurous sound on the air, a message from the tide.

There were hundreds of historic things to see, in every direction, if we had had time for all:
traces of the Attecott Picts; Pict forts and tombs, castles of the Middle Ages; robber caves;
Convenanters' monuments; and at Balcarry, near Auchencairn, the landing-place of the smuggler
Yawkins, who was Scott's "Dirk Hatteraick." But we had only five days for everything before
the Great Day--which will be coming so soon now. From Auchencairn we turned inland to a rolling
country where the Gray Dragon would be down one hill and halfway up another before he knew
what had happened. At Dundrennan--"Hill of the Thorn Bushes"--he had his first mishap; but
after the surprise of thinking a bomb had exploded, I was glad he'd seized just that opportunity
of bursting a tire, because it gave us more time for the Abbey than we should have given ourselves.

While the chauffeur made the dragon's toilet, patching up a fat white foot as he might have
doctored the pad of an elephant, we wandered about, and finally decided to lunch in a secluded
corner of the twelfth-century ruins.

Mrs. James and I set out our picnic-table, a folding thing that Sir S. carries in the car,
and we counted on having the place to ourselves. Tourists though we are, we scorn other tourists.
But it seems incredible that such as they can scorn us. We talked about Queen Mary and of her
last meal within those walls, and it felt sacrilegious to laugh and joke where she had been
so sad. We pictured her, young and beautiful, taking leave of the loyal men who had begged
her in vain not to trust Elizabeth; and we could fancy the town turning out to see her vessel
set sail--a very different town it would have been then from the charming little place it is
to-day, with its low white cottages half covered with flowers, the spotless walls as clean
as damask tablecloths, and all so gay and bright to the eye that grim Dundrennan Abbey in its
midst is like a skull fallen in a rose-garden.

"Ah," sighed Mrs. James, shaking her head, with a jam puff in her hand, "if the Queen had listened
to Maxwell she might have lived in safety to be an old woman!"

"True, she might have kept her head," Sir S. agreed, comfortably cutting himself a piece of
plum cake; "but if she'd taken Maxwell's advice, instead of sailing from Port Mary, never to
see Scotland again, wouldn't the whole civilized world miss its best-loved heroine of romance?
No other woman since history began has so captured the hearts of men, and made herself so adored
through the centuries, in spite of all her faults, or because of them. Mary Stuart and Napoleon
Bonaparte are the two figures in history of whom no one ever tires of talking or reading."

"Still, we must be sad at Dundrennan, where her last night in Scotland was spent," Mrs. James
mildly persisted, having eaten her puff while Sir S. argued. "I wonder if Michael Scott the
magician, who lived here (he comes into the "Lay of the Last Minstrel," you know), had prophetic
visions of Queen Mary and her fate? I should think so, for he had the secret of all sorts of
spells. The people of the neighbourhood believed that he'd locked up the plague in an underground
room of the Abbey, and for years they dared not excavate for fear the demon should leap out
and ravage the country. They used to think they could hear a rustling----"

At that instant we heard one ourselves; a distinct rustling fell upon our ears, and made us
turn round with a start. The plague we feared was tourists; but if it had been Michael Scott's
demon, with a scarlet body and a green head, I should have liked it better than Mrs. West's
pale purple coat and motoring bonnet. I don't know how Sir S. felt about the surprise, but
that was my feeling, though I was glad to see her brother. I find him the nicest thing about
Mrs. West.

"Who would have thought of running against you?" she exclaimed, as Sir S. jumped up from the
table and shook hands as cordially as if there had never been that mysterious row. "We've come
from Port Mary, where Basil sentimentalized over the stone Queen Mary stood on to get into
her ship. We haven't the patience to make our notes before luncheon! We're so hungry, and there's
such a lot to write about King David--do you think he built the Abbey, or was it Fergus, Lord
of Galloway?--and all this architecture which interests Basil even when he's starving! We've
brought our own sandwiches--we won't bother you----"

Of course Sir S. and Mrs. James both protested that having them was a pleasure, not a bother.
As for me, I remembered that little girls should be seen and not heard, so I said nothing,
and ate the nicest cake for fear Mrs. West might get it. Sir S. gave his place at the table
and his folding-chair to Mrs. West, and finished his luncheon, standing up, with Mr. Norman.
After all, Mrs. West didn't seem to be hungry. She ate scarcely anything, and when Sir S. asked
her to have some ice-cold white wine from the refrigerator basket, she said with a soft, sad
smile, "'I drink to thee only with mine eyes.'" Then, suddenly, hers filled with tears, so
they were liquid enough for a good long drink! She looked down again quickly, with a blush
which gave her complexion a peach-like bloom; and Sir S. made haste to question Mr. Norman
about the hired car. But I could see that he was embarrassed and distressed, and wondered more
than ever what their quarrel was about. Sir S. wouldn't listen to me the first day, when I
said it was my fault, and I oughtn't to go in his car. I'd almost forgotten that, it seemed
so long ago; but I remembered when I saw the tears in her eyes, and heard the strained sound
in his voice. Even Mr. Norman didn't look happy. Mrs. James was the only one not affected.
She ate her luncheon with a good appetite, which the sorrows of neither Mrs. West nor Queen
Mary could take away from her.

When we had finished, Mrs. West asked Sir S. in a gentle hesitating way if he would mind explaining
to her the beautiful Gothic doorway at the south side of the church. It was such a chance to
find a great authority on architecture, like him, upon the very spot, for she and Basil were
so ignorant, they always feared to make mistakes in their notes. Sir S. went like a lamb led
by a chain of roses, but apparently Mr. Norman didn't feel the same need of expert advice.
He stopped with Mrs. James and me, and helped us clear the table. When we'd packed everything
up, he offered to take the basket to the car; and, as the others hadn't come back, I went with
him, carrying the folding-chairs, which were not much heavier than three feathers.

"Have you remembered my advice?" he inquired. "Have you begun to write?"

"Yes, a little," I said. "What about your book?"

He shrugged his shoulders, looking melancholy.

"Won't the plot come right?" I asked.

"No. Nothing comes right."

"What a pity!"

"Yes, it's a pity. But I can't help it."

"Can't Mrs. West help?"

"She's not in the mood. Not that it's all her fault. Probably it's just as much mine. We're
getting on each other's nerves--and that's new to us. There won't be a book. There can't be
a book as things are."

"Yet you're going on with your trip?"

"Oh, yes, we're going on with our trip. Aline wouldn't give that up."

"If it hadn't been for me," I said, "it would have been all right for you both. I feel a beast!
I've spoiled everything."

"You're a witch, and you've bewitched us. Yes! That's what you have done."

"Thanks for your polite way of putting it," said I. "'Witch' is a nicer epithet than 'beast.'
I wish--I almost wish--I'd never seen any of you!"

"I don't," said he. "And I don't believe Somerled does. To go back to the time when we didn't
know that the witch-child existed would be going back from electricity to candles."

"You have a pretty way of poking fun at me," I laughed. "But I suppose you mean I've given
you all a shock. Well, you'll soon be rid of me. Three days more, and the end! But I do wish
I knew how to mend matters and make you and your sister happy again, at once."

"I could tell you how," he said quickly.

"Do, then! You've just time, if you hurry up before the others come."

He looked round, and there were Mrs. James and Mrs. West walking toward us with Sir S. They
were very near.

He hesitated, and his face grew red. "Will you promise not to be angry?" he almost whispered.

"I promise! Tell me."

"If you want to make everything come right for everybody in a minute, you must turn your attention
entirely to me."

"What good would that do?" I asked stupidly.

"It would do me all the good in the world, because, as I told you, you've bewitched me. It
would do my sister good because--well, because she's particularly anxious for you to like me.
And it would do Somerled good because--it might teach him his own mind--bring him to his senses."

"I don't understand one word you're talking about!" I broke out.

"It doesn't so much matter what you understand as what you do. Dear little Miss MacDonald,
will you try and be very, very kind to me, for--everybody's sake?"

"Of course," said I. "But you must call me Barrie."

"Thank you! That's one step. Will you call me Basil?"

"If you like," I answered. "Basil and Barrie! Don't they sound nice together?"

Just then the others came up and heard what I said, which made me feel foolish, as they'd missed
the first part. But Mrs. West beamed at me. I had been thinking that Basil Norman was the sort
of man I should love to have for a brother, but Mrs. West as a sister I could not stand!

"Basil and Barrie look nice together too, don't they, Mr. Somerled?" she remarked.

"Very," said he dryly. And the next thing I knew was that she was sitting beside him on the
front seat, and I was tucked in beside Mrs. James, with Basil Norman opposite. Their motor,
it seemed, was not behaving well, and Aline was nervous, so Sir S. had suggested, as we were
all going on to Ayr, that they should come with us for the rest of the day.

I felt rather dazed about everything, and I'm afraid made a hash of the scenery in my mind,
until I had calmed down. I remember that we swept through Kirkcudbright, which was named for
St. Cuthbert because his bones were once in the church. They were taking them on somewhere
else, but I don't know why. Basil told us all about it; but it sounded so odd to hear him talking
instructively of saints and Covenanters and martyrs, and "the torch of religion being first
lighted in Galloway," after he had been begging me in a very different voice to "be nice to
him," that it muddled up my intelligence. I liked the town because it was pretty, with graceful
spires and lovely, ivied ruins; but I didn't care much about the saints, or even about the
last Lord Selkirk, for whom they put up a Celtic cross in the Kirkcudbright market place; and
I couldn't be bothered pronouncing Kirkcudbright correctly. Of course it's done in the last
way you think it possibly could be, like all other Scottish names! I brightened up a little
at the story of Paul Jones at St. Mary's Isle, because pirates are always nice, and he was
classic. Besides, it was amusing of him to fail to kidnap Lord Selkirk and steal a silver teapot
instead. To please Benjamin Franklin he gave the teapot back, so he didn't get much out of
that adventure!

I remember too that there were hills on the way to Gatehouse of Fleet, hills which turned their
backs and reared on their hind legs as we saw them in the distance; but always they knelt meekly
in front of the Gray Dragon, as if he beat them to their knees. They were not so accommodating
to the hired car which followed. Something was the matter with its internal economy. It grunted
and groaned and emitted evil-smelling fumes because it couldn't digest its petrol. Basil named
the creature Old Blunderbore, but said he would not dare to call it so before its chauffeur-owner,
who glared behind his goggles when it was blamed for anything.

Gatehouse of Fleet looked, according to Basil, like places in Holland, because sailing ships
were apparently moving through fields, and masts mixing themselves up with tree branches. Suddenly
we had plunged into Scott country, sandwiched in with Crockett, for Gatehouse is the "Kippletingan"
of "Guy Mannering." There was a sweet, sad smell of the sea; and I heard Mrs. West ask Sir
S. if it didn't remind him of "that last night on the ship, when we told each other things?"

About this time, I think it must have been, we began to see so many old castles dotted about
the landscape that at last we almost ceased to notice them. It must have been nice living in
one of those box-like fortress castles in old days, when all your friends had them too; so
jolly and self-contained. And, as a matter of course, when you built one you had a few dungeons
put in, just as one has plenty of bathrooms now in a big house. If you were of a dramatic turn
of mind, you placed your dungeons mostly under your dining-hall, so you could hear the starving
prisoners groan while you feasted comfortably. We passed several dear little towns, too, which
I should like to have for toys, to keep in boxes when not playing with them. On most of the
houses were charming chimney-pots of different colours, exactly like immense chessmen, set
out ready for a game. All the men in these towns looked almost ill with intelligence. Most
of the girls were very pretty, with little coquettish features contradicted by saintly expressions,
and even the dogs appeared well educated and intellectual.

At Newton-Stewart a change came over the houses, but not the people or animals. I felt that
the smallest child would know more about books than I did; and there was hardly a nondescript
face to be seen. All could be classified in historic Scottish types. But the whitewashed, thatched
cottages in the suburbs would have looked Irish if they had not been too preternaturally clean.
In the streets of Newton-Stewart there was not so much as a stray stick or bit of paper. It
looked to me a deeply religious place, and Basil said perhaps it was trying to be worthy of
St. Ninian, who first brought Christianity to Scotland. He was a native of the Solway shore,
but went to Rome, where they liked him very much and made him a bishop. Then he felt impelled
to convert his own people, so he sailed from France and landed at the island of Whithorn, which
is now an excursion place from Newton-Stewart. That sounds irreverent, but, after all, an excursion
is only a kind of pilgrimage; and even if people are catching fish or eating them, they can
be pleased to be at the one place in Scotland where Christianity has gone on without interruption
by Vikings or others for fifteen hundred years.

Then, besides, Newton-Stewart has a monument of Samuel Rutherford to live up to. And they ought
to have one of his namesake, Samuel Rutherford Crockett, who has done so much for Galloway.

It was in honour of his "Raiders" that we took the longest way to Ayr. Some of the best things
in that book happened near Loch Trool, so we wanted to see Loch Trool. Bruce was there too;
but this was a Crockett tour. We should have gone perhaps, even if the run had been dull, for
it's only thirteen miles from Newton-Stewart, paradise of fishermen, to the hidden lake; but
the thirteen miles turned out to be a panorama of beauty. Sir S. was surprised by its loveliness,
though he knew by heart Burns's poem, "The Banks of the Cree." We did not come at once to the
river; but from House o' Hill (delicious name!) we plunged into a wild, forgotten paradise.
The road lay under an arbour of trees like an emerald tunnel, with a break here and there in
the green wall to show a blue shimmer of mountains and hills in the distance. We seemed to
have slipped into the hole leading to fairyland and pulled the hole in after us; but I knew
I was not going to enjoy getting there as much as if my gray bonnet and coat had been on the
front seat instead of Mrs. West's purple beauties. It was suddenly that we came into sight
and sound of the river, and so deep was the stillness that we might have strayed into the haunt
of a sleeping nymph. Nothing moved but the rushing brown water, and there was no sound, when
we stopped to listen, but its joyous song and the humming of bees in bracken and heather.

Basil can "make believe" more easily and less stiffly than Sir S., because he is an author,
and used to stringing whimsies together. He and I "pretended" that the bees were a fairy band,
playing to a hidden audience in a theatre roofed with the silver sheen of arching ferns. Wafts
of perfume came to us, cooled in woodsy dells, or warmed on sunshiny banks of flowers; but
not a soul could be seen anywhere, nor a house. We knew that this was an inhabited world only
by the wires stretched across the river for the sending of letters and parcels.

Sunset-time had not nearly come yet, but already a silver slit was torn in the blue of the
sky; and for the second time the heather moon was smiling its bright semicircular smile, as
if to say, "Make the most of me, Barrie, your time is short!" Yet how could I make the most
of her when I could see only my knight's back, with a purple shoulder as close to his as possible,
and the heather moon was ours?

Suddenly Basil said, "Oh, there's your heather moon! I thought of you yesterday after it rose
until it set, and wondered what you were doing. I do believe this is different from other moons.
Don't you see, young as it is, how it has power to change the yellow of the sunlight, seeming
to alloy it with silver?"

I did see, but thought I must have fancied the effect, until he saw it too. (We often think
and see and say the same things, which is nice, but not so exciting as the society of a man
who thinks different things and makes you argue.) The silver pouring down from that small crescent
seemed to sift through the strong golden light in a separate and distinct radiance. It shimmered
on the sea of waving hills and billowing mountains that opened out before us, as if sprinkling
a glitter of sequins over the vivid green and amber and purple. Wherever there was shadow this
pale glimmer painted it with ethereal colours, like the backs of rainbow fish moving under
water. I might have jumped out of the car and found the rainbow key, but nobody wanted it now!

"Just as that young, young moon has power to shine through the strong afternoon sunlight, so
a girl may all in a moment throw her influence over a group of people older and more experienced
than herself," said Basil, smiling at me, and then at Mrs. James, as if he didn't mind her
hearing the flowery compliment.

"I don't know any such girl in real life," said I; "but you might work her up for your book."

"I shall have to put her in, if the book's to be written," said he.

By and by we came to the lake, or, rather, far above it; and Sir S. stopped the car to let
us get out and look down. The water was a clear green with glints of purple, as if beds of
heather grew underneath. There were jagged, bare rocks, and rocks whose shoulders were half
covered as if with torn coats of faded brocade, dim silver of lichen, and pale pink of wild
flowers. I hoped that Sir S. might join me for a look at the heather moon lying deep in the
lake like a broken bracelet, but he didn't come. He looked at me very kindly from a distance,
not coldly, yet not warmly, and he stayed with Mrs. West.

It was Basil who told me about Robert Bruce and his men hiding here, and rolling huge stones
on the heads of the English soldiers who marched along the bank of the lake in search of the
"outlaws." It seemed as if nothing terrible could have happened in so sweet a wilderness; but
that was not the only horror. There were other wild deeds in history, and in the story of the
"Raiders," memories of hunts for Covenanters, and great killings. But now all is peace, and
I should have thought Loch Trool forgotten by the world if, in a dell of birch, rowan, hazel
trees, and great pines like green umbrellas, I had not spied a roof.

Sir S. said it was the roof of Lord Galloway's shooting-lodge, loved by its owner because it
was "out of tourist zone." So much the worse for tourists! So much the better for Lord Galloway!

I should hate to think of the road to Loch Trool smoking with motor dust. Of course our own
Gray Dragon's pure dust is a different matter!

As we ran out of Crockett land into Ayrshire we came into Wallace land; for every foot of Scotland
is taken up twice over by something or somebody wonderful. There isn't an inch left for new
history-makers. If we could see those "emanations" Sir S. talks of--those ghost pictures--as
far as the eye could reach we should see men marching, splendid men and women, too, who have
made the world shine with their deeds, processions coming from every direction, out of the
dim beginning of things up to the present day.

After the wildness of Loch Trool we had a country of plenteousness and peace. Basil said it
was like a Surrey set down by the sea, so I suppose Surrey has big trees and flowery hedges
and rolling downs, purple with heather. But surely no heather can be as purple as Scottish heather?

The sands of Girvan seemed to float like a golden scarf on the blue sea, and the town looked
a romantic, mediæval place till we shot into it. Then we were disillusioned as to its age;
but Ailsa Craig was noble in the distance, and a few members of the gull colony had flapped
over to give town dwellers and visitors a sad serenade. "Gulls, golfers, and geologists all
love Girvan," Basil said.

"Have you put that down in your notebook?" I inquired.

"Not in those words. But I jotted down something about this town in advance from authorities
I've looked up. I generally keep two books going: one in which I put the things I want to see,
and ideas for plots sometimes tangled up with a sort of diary; and another book of thoughts
about places I have already seen--thoughts I can weave into a story in one way or another."

"You haven't once written in either of your books to-day!" I accused him.

"No. I told you I'd given up note-taking for the present. I'm all at sea. But just now it's
a beautiful if not very calm sea."

"When it quiets down you'll begin again," I consoled him. "How I should love to see a real,
live author's notebook! It would be so useful to know how you manage to--to----"

"Record impressions," Mrs. James helped me out.

Smiling, Basil took from a breast-pocket a small green morocco volume with a pencil slipped
into a loop. Compared to Mrs. West's pretty book, his was a shabby thing; but it smelt of good
cigarettes.

"I'm afraid this will disillusion you," he said, "if you expect something interesting. I simply
make notes of things I want to see, or jot down thoughts to recall pictures to my mind. Reading
over one's notebook is like glancing over a lot of kodak films. Sometimes one sticks in a lot
of nonsense."

I opened the little volume, and ran my eyes down the short pages. "Carlisle, Saturday, August
Something or Other. Notes for Scotch Tour," I read aloud. "Story of honeymoon. English hero--American
girl. Aline wants her Canadian. I see her American. Dispute. Must decide soon. Reading up Galloway
makes me want to go there. Aline says rush straight on to Ayr, and save time. Hate saving time!
Worst economy. More time you spend, more you have. Must go along coast of Ayr, anyhow. Once
lined with strongholds of great families. See Dunure, Crossaguel, and deuced lot of others.

"Keats visited Burns's birthplace. Wrote sonnet there. Look this up.

"Burns sought out, along banks of Ayr, places where Wallace was supposed to have hidden. Good
stuff this. Wallace fought all over the place here. At Irvine, one of his earliest exploits.
Kindled big fire, neighbouring village. When English soldiers marched forth to put fire out,
jumped on them and killed the lot. Stuffed bodies into dungeon of castle at Irvine. Called
'Wallace Larder' after that. Nasty larders people had in those days. Read up account Douglas
Larder. Compare the two. See which worse. Why not call Barns of Ayr Wallace Oven? Read up Blind
Harry for picturesque story Barns of Ayr. Far as I remember, English enticed all neighbouring
Scots to powwow of some sort. Wallace expected; delay on way. Scots executed on some pretext.
When Wallace turned up, niece warned him. He routed up few followers, set fire to barns and
burnt English, who were celebrating triumph over Wallace and his men. When get to Ayr look
this up further.... Word 'Whig' comes first from Ayr. Wonder why? Look up. Also get Burns glossary.
Dialect difficult. Aline won't read Burns. Fear she's going to fail in this book. Thinks only
of one thing. But no matter. Courage, mon brave!

"Sunday. Had batch bad notices of last book from America. Aline gone to bed with headache as
usual after bad reviews. Says we must economize. She'll forget when we start and want best
suites of rooms with baths everywhere. I know that book was good. Hang notices! Understand
so well what Job meant when said, 'Oh, that mine enemy would write a book!' He wanted to criticise
it. Each new boil would suggest scathing epithet.

"Monday. Everything changed. Old plot exploded in thousand pieces. Mustn't be honeymoon couple.
Heroine radiant young girl, eighteen, hair red as Circe's, eyes of new-born angel, comes like
bombshell into hero's life. Not good simile, bombshell. Query, hero. Would she fall in love
with man of B. N.'s type? I see another type more probable, but don't want that.

"August 4th. Fearful row. General upset. Don't see any book unless I write it alone. Aline
says I can save situation for her. Would like only too well do what she wants, but difficult
bring it off as things are. Chances in favour of other man. Temptation consent be cat's-paw.
Is that fair to the lovely chestnut in the fire? Extra-ordinary that child like this can so
upset us all. What is the electric attraction we can't resist? More than normal amount of radium,
perhaps!"

"Well, why don't you laugh at the rattle of the dry bones?" asked Basil, as I read on, more
and more puzzled.

"I haven't come to many funny things yet," said I, "except about Job. That was rather good,
though I don't see how you weave such things into your books."

"Job--Job?" he repeated vaguely. Then a rush of blood went over his whole face, up to his forehead.
His dreamy dark eyes looked suddenly anything but dreamy. "Good Heavens!" he gasped. "What
have you got there?" and began to ransack all the pockets of his waistcoat and coat until he
found the twin of the book he'd given me. "This is what I meant you to see," he said in a queer,
ashamed voice.

I handed the first book back to him. He seized it and glanced from page to page, looking almost
ill. By and by he came to something which seemed to scare him. As far as I could tell, it was
farther toward the end than I had read.

"Would you mind showing me where you left off," he asked.

"It was where you were wondering whether your new heroine had swallowed radium or something,"
said I.

"Oh!" He looked relieved. "Well--I wouldn't have had you see that idiotic stuff for a good
deal. But I told you, didn't I, that if the book went on I'd have to put you into it? There's
a lot of silly rot there. Poetical license!"

"The thing that made the most impression on me was the part about the red hair," I said. "The
description sounded so nice. Who was Circe, please? Was she Scottish? It's a name a Pictish
princess might have had."

"The first Circe lived even before the Pictish princesses," Basil answered, quieting down,
though he was still very flushed. "But she's had a good many descendants--one or two at least
in each generation of women born in every country. Not that you--I mean the new heroine--will
be one of them really."

"What did Circe do?" I hurried on.

"Do? She was an exceptionally attractive woman. She had a special kind of magnetism that nobody
could resist. She amused herself by turning all the men she knew--there were quite a lot of
them--into animals of different sorts."

"I think it would have been cleverer and more attractive of her if she had turned animals into
men," said I.

"That's what my heroine can do," Basil explained. "She's a kind of miniature baby Circe, for
her red hair and general get up, and her curious power of upsetting people and their plans
from the first minute they see her. But--my heroine wouldn't and couldn't turn her victims
into beasts. She makes them want to transform themselves into something very extra special
in the way of manliness."

"Why do you call her your heroine with an emphasis?" I wanted to know. "Isn't she your sister's
heroine, too?"

"No. My sister doesn't see her as a heroine for a novel. And that's why I say the book we started
out to write won't materialize. No author can write a story he or she doesn't take a strong
interest in."

"That's where my writing is easier," I said. "I just put down all the things exactly as they
happen, and as I see and think about them. So there's no heroine--and no hero--and no story."

"Yes, that is simpler," he agreed. "That's the way the Great Author writes His book. Only all
His characters are heroes and heroines in the stories of their own lives."

As we talked, the moon went down in the west. The sky was a pale lilac, like a great concave
mirror reflecting the heather. Then it darkened to a deeper purple, and made my thoughts feel
like pansies, as they blossomed in my mind. We fell into silence. But Mrs. James said afterward
that was because we were hungry and didn't realize what was the matter with us. Perhaps she
was right, but it didn't seem so prosaic at the time.

As the car brought us near the town of Ayr (which, with its lights coming out, reddened the
purple mirror) it was too dark to see details clearly. But, driving slowly, we were aware of
a thing that loomed out of the quiet landscape and seemed strangely foreign to it, as if we
were motoring in Greece or Italy, not Scotland. It was a great classic temple, rising on the
banks of a stream that laughed and called to us through the twilight.

"Can it be somebody's tomb?" I asked. But there was no cemetery, only a garden, and close by
a camel-backed bridge that crossed the surging river.

"It must be the Burns monument," said Basil. "I've never been here, but I've studied up the
place and looked at maps till I can see them with my eyes shut. This is the right place for
the monument, with a museum, and some garden statues of Tam o'Shanter and Souter Johnnie, which
we'll have to visit by daylight to-morrow. I hope you're going to invite me to sight-see with you?"

"It's not for me to invite any one."

"Look as if you want to, and it's done."

"Oh, I'll do that!" I promised.

VIII

We stopped at a big railway-hotel when we came into Ayr. Basil and Mrs. West took rooms there
too, because it was the best in town, and Mrs. West always wants the very best--except when
she's depressed by bad notices of her books!

It was late, and she was so faint with hunger that she begged us not to dress, but to go to
dinner in ten minutes. We agreed; but when we'd hurriedly washed our hands and faces and assembled
at the rendezvous, there was no Mrs. West. Basil was the only one who didn't look surprised.
Ten more minutes passed, perhaps, giving us time to think how hungry we were too, and then
the lady appeared. She hadn't exactly dressed, but she had done something to herself which
made her look fresh and lovely and elaborate, in contrast to Mrs. James and me.

"Dear people!" she exclaimed, "I'm so sorry if I've kept you waiting, but I simply couldn't
find a thing; and the more haste, the less speed, you know. Mr. Somerled, you've been here
before in your pre-American days. Do, like an angel-man, show me the way to the dining-room.
I can never get used to going in late, with a lot of people staring. Basil will take care of
Barrie and Mrs. James."

I felt as if I should go mad and bite something if she were to cultivate the habit of calling
me "Barrie"; but as I'd invited both her brother and Sir S. to do so, and Mrs. James had never
called me anything else, I couldn't very well make Mrs. West the one exception.

A good many of the hotel guests had finished dinner by that time, but twenty or thirty were
still at their tables in the big dining-room, which seemed to me absolutely palatial after
my "glass retort." Evidently we were well in the thick of "tourist zone" again, judging by
the look of the people, for most of them had the air of having travelled half round the world
in powerful and luxurious motor-cars. You could see they weren't "local"--with four exceptions,
our nearest neighbours. I thought they were pets; but Mrs. West stared in that pale-eyed way
I noticed women have when they wish to express superiority or contempt.

All four of the pets were old--two very old, two elderly. The first pair wore bonnets which
they must have had for years, things that perched irrelevantly on the tops of their heads,
and looked entirely extraneous. The second two had something more or less of the hat tribe,
and Sir S. said this was because their elders considered them girls, and granted them the right
to be frivolous in order to attract the opposite sex. Mrs. West was sure that such headgear
couldn't be got for love or money except in small remote Scottish towns. "Might come from Thrums,"
said Sir S. I'd never heard of Thrums, and Basil explained that it was a famous place in a
novel, written by a man of my name, Barrie. "The real place is Kerrimuir," he went on, and
promised to give me the book.

At this Sir S. glanced our way for an instant, looked as if he wanted to speak, changed his
mind, and turned again to Mrs. West, next whom he sat, with Mrs. James on his other side. No
wonder, I thought, he liked better to look at her than me, as she was so fresh and elaborate
and charming. All through dinner he talked to Mrs. West and a little to Mrs. James, leaving
Basil to entertain me, which he did very kindly. Still, Sir S. seemed annoyed because a party
of young American men at a table near ours stared at me a good deal, though he didn't care
to pay me any attention himself. He drew his eyebrows together and glared at them once, whereupon
the nicest looking of the four (and they were all good-looking) bowed. Sir S. returned the
nod stiffly, with an "I-wonder-if-I-really-do know-you,-or-if-this-is-a-trick-to-claim-acquaintance?"
sort of expression.

Perhaps I ought to have been annoyed too, but I wasn't a bit. They were such nice boys, so
young, and having such a glorious time! I was glad they looked at me and not at Mrs. West,
and I was sure they didn't mean to be rude. Probably they'd seen mother, or her photographs,
and were puzzling over the resemblance which Sir S. and Basil both say is very strong, in spite
of "marked differences." Whenever we speak of her, I feel as if I could hardly wait till Monday,
though at other times the present seems so enchanting I can't bear to have it turn into the past.

The American boys (I thought that none of them could be over twenty-one) lingered at their
table a long time after they seemed to have finished their dinner. They played some kind of
game with bent matches which made them laugh a good deal; but the minute we got up, I heard
them push back their chairs, though I didn't turn my head.

Basil and I walked out of the dining-room after the rest of the party, and the boys came close
behind us. I heard one say in a low voice, "Did you ever see such hair?" and I felt a sort
of creep run all the way down my plait and up again into my brain, because I've been brought
up to think red hair ugly, and it's hard to believe every one isn't making fun of it. However,
I remembered what Sir S. said about the flame-coloured heads of the children in the road, and
that stuff Basil wrote in his notebook about Circe. Then I felt better, and hoped that the
boys were not laughing.

Outside the dining-room door the handsomest one got near enough to speak to Sir S. "How do
you do, Mr. Somerled?" he said. "Don't you remember me? I'm Jack Morrison, Marguerite's cousin.
I met you twice at Newport while you were painting her portrait."

"Marguerite Morrison. 'M. M.,' the grateful model who gave him the refrigerator basket!" thought
I. And Sir S. proceeded to give the cousin a refrigerator glance; but it didn't discourage
him. He went on as cordially as ever. "My three chums want to be presented: Dick Farquhar,
Charlie Grant, Sam Menzies. We're all Harvard men, seeing Europe in general and Scotland in
particular, in our vacation. We've every one of us got Scottish blood in our veins, so we sort
of feel we've earned the right to make your acquaintance. And we've been wondering if you'd
introduce us to your friends, if you don't think it's cheek of us to ask!"

Sir S. looked as if he did think it great "cheek"; but if he hesitated, Mrs. West quickly decided
for him. She gave the nice American boy one of her sweet, soft smiles, and said, "Of course
Mr. Somerled will introduce you all to us; or you may consider yourselves introduced, and save
him the trouble. My name is Aline West, and this is my brother, Basil Norman."

She went through this little ceremony in a charming way, yet as if she expected the young men
to be delighted; and I too thought they would burst into exclamations of joy at meeting celebrities.
But not a word did any of the four say about the books, or their great luck in meeting the
authors. Perhaps they were too shy, though they didn't seem shy in other ways. They just mumbled
in a kind of chorus. "Very pleased to know you both" (which Mr. Norman told me afterward is
an American formula, on being introduced); and when they'd bowed to the brother and sister
and Mrs. James (though she hadn't been mentioned) all four grouped round me. This was natural,
I suppose, because we were more or less of an age.

"Is this your daughter, Mrs. West?" asked Jack Morrison. "And may we children talk to her?"

For a minute that pretty, sweet-faced woman looked exactly like a cat. She did, really. It
almost gave me a shock! I thought, "She must have been a cat in another state of existence,
and hasn't quite got over it." Not that cats aren't nice in their way; but when ladies in fascinating
frocks, with hair beautifully dressed, suddenly develop a striking family likeness to Persian
pussies robbed of milk, it does have a quaint effect on the nerves.

"Miss MacDonald is not my daughter," said Mrs. West, laughing wildly. "I'm not quite old enough
yet to have a daughter of her age, and she's not such a child as she looks. But do talk to
her, by all means. I'm sure she'll be very pleased."

"Then your name is MacDonald?" Jack Morrison exclaimed. "We were saying at dinner how much
you look like Mrs. Bal MacDonald, the beautiful actress. Is she any relation?"

"Yes, she is," I answered. And I would have gone on to tell him and his friends that she was
my mother, but I saw Sir S. and Mrs. West and Basil looking as if they wanted to get away,
so I dared not go into particulars.

"Do tell us about it," said all the American boys together, when I paused to take breath and
think. I should have loved to stop and talk about mother, but magnetic thrills of disapproval
from my guardians crackled through me. "If you're in Edinburgh next week maybe you'll find
out," I said consolingly. "But now I must go."

I bowed nicely, and they bowed still more nicely, trying to look wistful, as if they didn't
want me to hurry away.

We went to a private sitting-room Sir S. had taken, so I suppose he had invited Basil and Mrs.
West; and I thought they would speak of the American boys, but nobody even referred to their
existence. This made me feel somehow as if I were being snubbed. I don't know why, for nobody
was unkind.

Afterward, when Mrs. James and I went to our adjoining bedrooms, I asked her if I had done
anything I ought not to have done.

"No, my dear child," said she, smoothing my hair, which I'd begun to unplait. "Nothing except----"
and she hesitated.

"Except what? Tell me the worst."

"There isn't any worst. You did nothing that Mrs. West and I wouldn't like to do, if we could.
I won't go into particulars, if you don't mind, because it wouldn't be good for you if I did,
and might make you self-conscious--a great misfortune that would spoil what some of us like
best in you. But you needn't worry."

"Mrs. West looked as if she longed to scratch my eyes out. She needn't have been so very vexed
at my being taken for her daughter. I'm not a scarecrow, or a village idiot."

Mrs. James laughed, a well-trained little laugh she has, which seems taught to go on so far
and no farther--like the tune I once heard a bullfinch sing in a shop.

"My dear, you're too young and unworldly to understand these things," she said. "A pretty woman,
a celebrity like Mrs. West, isn't pleased when she expects all the attention of young gentlemen
for herself, to find that she goes for nothing, and all they want is to talk to some one else.
And then, at her age, to be taken for a grown-up girl's mother! I couldn't help being sorry
for her myself. I know what it is to want to keep young."

"But you're thinking of Doctor James," said I. "And she's a widow. Besides, she's always calling
me a child, and telling me to play dolls."

"Well, that isn't to say that she wants all the men there are to play dolls with you," chuckled
Mrs. James.

"These were boys, compared to her. She must be thirty."

"Maybe she's more, if the truth were known. But why should it be known? Even when we're thirty
and--er--a little over--we like to be admired by boys as well as others. It makes us feel we
haven't got beyond things. Still, she needn't grudge you those lads. She's got the great Somerled."

"Yes, I suppose she has," I admitted grudgingly.

I went to bed feeling as if elephants had walked over me for years.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next morning Sir S. seemed to take it for granted that Basil would look after Mrs. James and
me. He certainly put on rather a "kind uncle" air with me, but the more he did so, the less
and less I felt as if he were my uncle, and the more and more I wanted to have him for my knight--mine
all alone, without so much as a link of his chain armour for any one else.

It is strange, as I've thought often before already, how one can get to feel in such a way
about a person one has known only a few days. But you see, I've known Sir S. in a motor-car.
I do believe that makes a difference. Motor-cars vibrate, and you vibrate in them faster than
you do when not in motor-cars; so your feelings travel much faster than they would in any other
way. That must be the scientific explanation of what I feel for Sir S.

Here we were in Ayr, whither we'd come to think about Burns and nobody else (unless, perhaps,
Wallace) and this was to be the beginning of a special little tour, following all along the
line of Burns's pathway in life, from his birth in the town of Ayr, to his death in the town
of Dumfries. We'd hurried through Dumfries almost with our eyes shut, on purpose not to see
where he died, before he was born, so to speak; and I had thought all this inspiration on the
part of Sir S. I fancied that he had planned it partly for my sake, because of my being just
out of the glass retort. But now he abandoned me to another; and seeing him entirely absorbed
in Mrs. West kept me from dwelling on Burns as much as I ought. If you are to concentrate your
mind on historical characters or poets, you must clear your brain out to make room for them,
whereas mine was stuffed full of fancies about myself and other people, none of whom are historical
at all yet--except, perhaps, the great Somerled.

Neither could Basil think exclusively of Burns, as we walked together through the pleasant
town of Ayr, after our early breakfast. He was absent-minded once or twice, and when I said,
"A penny for your thoughts!" he answered that they were of the book he would like to write
but couldn't.

"The men I want to write about are boiling with primitive passions," said he, laughing, "and
that won't do for a 'motor-novel.' Not that people who travel in motor-cars aren't mostly boiling
with primitive passions for one cause or another, every minute. But the critics won't have
it. According to them, characters can experience grand emotions only when they are keeping
still, not when they're being hurled about the country. The proper place for primitive emotions
is in small fishing villages, or, better still, on Devonshire moors, or, best of all, in the
illimitable desert. So you see the men I have in my mind wouldn't go down with the critics,
because unfortunately they happen to be in a motor-car."

Talking of men in motor-cars, at that moment an enormous red car, going very fast, changed
its mind suddenly, stopped short in twice its own length, and out jumped four men. They were
the Americans of last night, and by this time I had mixed up their names (except Jack Morrison's,
because he was so good-looking, with square blue eyes), but they labelled themselves over again
very neatly for me. The freckled one was Dick Farquhar; the one with a moustache like the shadow
of a coming event, Charlie Grant; the one with the scar on his forehead, Sam Menzies; but they
had funny nicknames for each other. Afterward Basil said they made him feel as if his name
ought to be Methuselah.

The boys had been going to Burns's birthplace in their motor-car, but they asked if they might
walk round the town with us, and take to their auto later. I looked appealingly at Basil, for
they were such fun, so he said, "Yes, of course"; and they were very polite, and called him
"sir," as they had Mr. Somerled the night before. But each time they used the word, Basil looked
as if he were swallowing bad medicine, and yet as though he were inclined to laugh. Presently,
however, he went ahead with Mrs. James, following his sister and Sir S., and left me to the
four boys. We laughed at everything. I'm afraid it wasn't at all the spirit to go hero-worshipping;
and none of them knew anything about "The Twa Brigs" of Burns's poem. I should have liked to
call Basil and ask him, but they said they should feel it would be money in their pockets never
to have been born if I "shunted" them like that, so we laughed a great deal more and went on
wallowing in ignorance. They seemed to take it for granted that I would rather be with them
than with the others, and they paid me all sorts of funny compliments. They vowed that they
had resolved to change their whole trip because of me, and wherever I was going they would
go too; so, just for fun, I would tell them nothing except that it was to be Edinburgh on Monday.
Cross-question as they might, I would say no more than that they must find out my hotel, and
how I was related to "Mrs. Bal" (as they all called her) for themselves, if they were to find
out at all.

They knew little more about Wallace than Burns. When we stopped in front of the monument in
the High Street, coming back from the Auld Brig, Jack Morrison began grandly with "Scots wha
hae wi' Wallace bled," but he could get no farther, and stopped to ask helplessly, "Where did
he bleed, anyhow? Was it here, and if not, why did they put up the monument?"

Even I knew that Wallace was born in Ayr; and when I impudently inquired what they came to
Europe to see, if they cared more about football than history, they all answered that they
came to see pretty girls. "And, by Jove, we're doing it!" added Charlie Grant.

"Can't you find pretty girls at home?" I sneered.

"We have found 'em. We're looking for new types now," said Jack. "So's the great Somerled,
isn't he? He told my Cousin Marguerite that he was going a long journey in search of a model
with the right shade of hair, which was hard on her, poor girl, as she's spent a pot o' money
on hers. But Somerled's a sardonic sort of chap, don't you think? They say his money's spoilt
him. He hardly ever paints nowadays. Too busy grubbing for millions. I've heard that you have
to go on your knees to get him to do a portrait--and if he graciously consents, you can't tell
but he'll bring out all that's most evil in your soul on to your face, like a rash. You never
know what'll happen with him--except his fee. Nothing less than ten thousand dollars, if you
get off cheap."

"I don't think he's that kind of a man at all," said I, "Why, just to prove to you that he
isn't, he's offered to paint me for nothing!"

They all roared at this, and wouldn't explain why. I didn't like them much, for five minutes;
but after that I couldn't help forgiving them again.

We took the Gray Dragon for Alloway and for Burns's birthplace, but the boys jumped into their
car and kept close behind us. Hardly had we got into the tiny thatched house--once a mere "clay
biggin"--where Burns was born, than the four appeared on the scene. Mrs. West was scarcely
civil to them at first, until Basil whispered (only in fun, of course, but she took it seriously,
as she often does when people think they're being humorous), "If you're nasty to those boys,
it will be a bad advertisement. They won't read your books or tell their friends they're the
best books going!" She was quite kind and elderly-sisterly to them after that. But nice boys
as they are, it did grate on me having them make jokes every minute, even about that wonderful,
pathetic little room with the railed-off furniture and curtained wall-bed.

Luckily I had been reading about the cottage and everything else concerning the Burns family
while I dressed. I knew already how Burns's father built the tiny house with his own hands;
how the night that Robert was born, a fearful storm came up which threatened to sweep away
the whole biggin; and how the poor young mother had to be hustled off to a neighbour's cottage.
How little the poor couple guessed that the baby born "in thunder, lightning and in rain" would
make of the clay biggin a world's shrine, to be bought by the nation for four thousand pounds.
Maybe it cost five pounds to build. How I did want to believe that from one of the bowls kept
on a shelf in that room of the wall-bed Burns had eaten his porridge as a child. Of course
that would be almost too good to be true; but he did eat his porridge in that room, anyhow--and
often wanted more than he could get. What brains of genius have been nourished on porridge
and oaten cake in this country of ours! I felt more than ever proud of my Scottish blood as
I stood in that low-ceilinged cottage; and I wondered if Sir S. had the same glorious thrill.
I didn't know if he had ever before come to Ayr; but I did know that his first home on our
own island of Dhrum must have been much like this--just a clay biggin with a but and a ben.
He, too, was born a genius. He, like Burns, knew grinding poverty. He, too, was taken up by
great ones and dropped again, for he has told me so.

Once Sir S. was near me for a minute--without his Aline--and I did want some word to prove
that I was still his princess, he my knight. But all I got from him on the subject was: "Well,
do you think the knights 'notice' that you're a princess?"

I stared, bewildered. Then I remembered our conversation in the car, before Mrs. West came
and annexed the front seat. Of course I knew he meant the American boys.

"They notice that I'm like my mother," said I.

"Oh, is that all?" And he laughed. Then Mrs. West flitted over to ask if we oughtn't to go
to the museum.

It is a pathetic little museum, with intimate relics and countless pictures of Burns, each
one making him look entirely different from all the others. By and by we went on to the monument,
the strange classic temple that had loomed out of the twilight as we came to Ayr. The road
from town to the monument was the way of Tam o' Shanter's wild ride, or almost the same; only
there's a tram-line now to spoil the romance, if one chooses to let it be spoiled. As for me,
I'd scorn to let romance be broken by an object so dull as a tram-car. When things are ugly
I simply make them transparent for my eyes, and see through them as if they didn't exist.

I had to do a good deal of this juggling in the neighbourhood of the monument; for the booths
bristling with Burns souvenirs, and the tea gardens where crowds drink to Burns's memory in
ginger pop and fizzy lemonade, would be rather dreadful if they were not funny. I'm sure, though,
Burns's sense of humour would make him laugh a mellow, ringing laugh: if he could see those
thousands of bottles of temperance drinks being emptied in his honour.

It was good to escape from the gay, meretricious gardens to the graveyard of Alloway Auld Kirk,
where Tam o' Shanter's witches danced, and where Burns's father lies buried. There was peace,
too, where the Brig o' Doon arched its camel-back over a clear brown, rippling stream. There,
through the singing of the water, through the playing of an old blind fiddler scraping the
tune of "Annie Laurie," I could hear the true Burns song, the music of his thoughts sweetly
ringing on, to keep the world young, as the bright water leaps on forever to give its jewels
to the sea.

We went back from Alloway to Ayr, and lunched early in our own hotel. The boys lunched early
too, and when we started out on the next stage of our Burns pilgrimage, we saw their red car
panting in front of the hotel. I had heard no talk of new plans for Basil and Mrs. West, but
they must have talked things over with each other or Sir S., for Blunderbore was vibrating
healthily between the Gray Dragon and the Red Prince. I could have jumped for joy when I saw
Blunderbore, and kissed him on his bonnet. Already in imagination I was in my old place on
the front seat of our car, beside my knight; but the first words of Sir S. snatched me off
again and left me dangling in mid-air.

"Sure your motor's all right again?" he inquired of Basil.

I held my breath for the answer.

"Yes, thanks, quite all right."

"You know"--and Sir S. turned to Mrs. West--"we're delighted to keep you as our guests."

"You are good," she answered, "but--we mustn't wear out our welcome."

"Don't be afraid of that." (I did so wish I could have been sure whether his tone was eager
or only cordial! Probably Mrs. West was wishing the same.)

"Thanks a thousand times, but we'll sample our own car for a while. We shall meet and exchange
impressions. And perhaps--after Edinburgh----"

She broke off, leaving the rest to our imagination. Mine was so lively that it gave my heart
a pinch. I could see what she meant as clearly as if she had held a photograph before my eyes:
me, with mother, waving good-byes from a hotel door; she and her brother transferred permanently
to the Gray Dragon, the Row forgotten; Blunderbore's nose turned meekly back toward Carlisle;
Mrs. James out of the picture. Just for an instant I could have cried. Then I reminded myself
for the twentieth time that in a few days nothing can matter, because I shall have my own dear,
beautiful mother, who will make up to me for everybody and everything else.

I don't know how I should have borne it if Mrs. James had wanted to sit in front, but the angel
didn't. And presently there was I in my old place, feeling as if weeks instead of hours had
elapsed (yes "elapsed" is the most distance-expressing word) since I last sat shoulder to shoulder
with Sir S.

That feeling of long-ago-ness made me a little shy, and to save my life I couldn't think of
a word to say except about the weather; so I said nothing at all, and he said the same. By
and by I began to count. When I had got up to five hundred, and still he hadn't spoken, I knew
I should certainly burst if nothing happened before a thousand.

"Well?" he murmured at last in an isolated way.

"Five hundred and eighty-six," I counted aloud inadvertently.

"Eh?" said he.

"I was just seeing how many I should have to count before you spoke."

"H'm! I'm afraid you do find me a dull companion after all your latest acquisitions. But what
can I do? In a way I'm your guardian temporarily. I can't let you run about the country alone
with hordes of young men. I may seem selfish; but I have done my best for you since other and
younger knights came upon the field."

"That is hypocritical!" I flung at him. "You shed me on others because you like the society
of a grown-up woman better than mine; and then you pretend you're doing it for my sake. I like
that!"

"I thought you would like it. That's why I did it."

"Not because you wanted to talk to Mrs. West?"

"Oh, of course I like talking to her. Don't you like talking to her brother, and all that drove
of boys?"

"Why--yes, I like talking to them well enough, but----"

"But what?"

"You ought to know, without telling."

"I don't know. Are we playing at cross purposes?"

"How can I tell, if you can't?"

"How can I, if you won't?"

"Oh, don't let's argue about nothing! Let's be happy--perfectly happy."

"In other words, if milk has been spilt, don't water it with salt tears, but leave it to collect
cream."

"Yes. Why doesn't everybody treat spilt milk like that?"

"It doesn't occur to poor worried humanity. It wouldn't occur to me in other society--Princess."

"Thank you, Sir Knight." I couldn't resist nestling my shoulder closer to his in joy and gratitude:
and then an odd thing happened. A tiny shock of electricity seemed to flash through his shoulder
to mine. I never felt anything like it before. It made my heart stop and afterward beat fast.
I had to talk of something irrelevant in a hurry, so I grabbed at Burns: and indeed we ought
not even for a minute to have talked of any other subject on this road, which we were exploring
only because of Burns. Not that the high road between Kilmarnock and Dumfries wouldn't be worth
seeing if Burns had never set foot on it, and if no other great ones had passed that way. It
would be worth travelling for itself alone, for every mile has its own special beauty. And
the more I think of Scotland the more I tell myself she is like a wise connoisseur (I hope
that's the word!) who goes ahead of others to a sale of splendid pictures, and secures the
finest for herself at a bargain. Several of the prettiest pictures hang on the blue-and-gold
walls of the Burns country.

We came suddenly into view of Arran when the car had spun us along an up and down road to Ochiltree
and Cumnock. It was I who, looking back, first caught sight of the jagged pinnacles boldly
painted in purple on a far, pale sky. I didn't know what they were, but Sir S. put on the brakes
quickly, and let us stop to look. He remembered the cliffs, and gazed at them with a light
in his eyes which would have told me, if I hadn't known before, that he had been homesick for
Scotland all these rich, successful years, whether consciously or not.

By and by we came to the Nith, which afterward we did not leave; and through a green glen wound
the "sweet Afton" Burns wrote of and loved almost as dearly as he loved its elder brother.
Here in this valley, companioned with his own starry thoughts, he walked and rode, happy in
his fellowship with Nature, even though poverty made him an exciseman at fifty pounds a year.
He had to put down smuggling with one hand and write his glorious poetry with the other, as
Mrs. James expressed it. At New Cumnock he would spend a night sometimes on his way to Ellisland,
his "farm that would not pay," near Dumfries.

Always following in the track of Burns, the Gray Dragon dashed up and down short, steep, switchbacked
hills (which must have tried any steed of ancient days except a witch's broomstick) and whisked
us into Sanquhar, the "sean cathair" or "old fortress" of earliest Gaelic times, now snappily
called "Sanker." There Queen Mary rested, going to Dundrennan after the terrible battle of
Langside; there Prince Charlie marched; and there was a monument of granite to the Covenanters
Cameron and Renwick. Burns must have dreamed of Queen Mary when duty brought him to Sanquhar;
and Renwick would have been a person to appeal to him, because of his youth and good looks,
and because the "pretty lad" was the last martyr to the Covenant. But perhaps he thought most
of all of that Admirable Crichton who was born at Sanquhar, not in the castle of his wild and
brilliant family, but at Eliock House. Burns would maybe have liked him not so much for taking
his degree at St. Andrews when he was twelve, or for knowing ten languages and many sciences,
as for wandering adventurously over the world, winning tilting matches at the Louvre, and the
love of ladies at Padua and Venice.

Mrs. James had bought a book with quotations from a diary of Burns, and she read out to us
while the car stopped at Sanquhar what he had written about one specimen day:

"Left Thornhill at five in the morning. Rode four miles to Enterkinfoot and made a call: thence
three miles to Slunkerford with another call: thence six miles to Sanquhar, where there were
twenty official visits to be made: thence two miles to Whitehall, with two more calls: and
a return journey to Sanquhar, finishing the day's work at seven in the evening."

Poor poet. But he had always his glowing fancies to keep his heart warm. We felt almost guilty
because we had no horrid calls to make, as he had; nothing to do but enjoy the scene made magical
by his love of it: the valley with its near green hills and distant peaks of Galloway and Lowther;
the river girdling wooded reaches with a belt of silver, or burrowing through deep rocky channels,
purple as heather petrified. It was all as different from yesterday's Crockettland as if we
had crossed the ocean from one to the other.

At Carronbridge we saw the woods of Drumlanrig on our right hand; and Sir S. told me about
the Duke of Queensberry who spent all his money in building the splendid castle, slept in it
one night, saw the bills for it, cursed himself and it, and went away with nothing left but
a broken heart. "Deil pyk out the een of him who sees this," he wrote on the back of the biggest
bill.

There's a Burns museum at lime-tree-shaded Thornhill, but I refused to go in and stare at an
original cast of his skull. I do think a man, especially a great genius, ought to be allowed
the privacy of his own skull!

Closeburn is the place where the Kirkpatricks, the Empress Eugénie's family, used to live before
they went to Spain. At Auldgirth we went over a bridge built by Carlyle's father. At Mauchline
Burns grew from a boy into a man and fell in love. At Ellisland, Burns lived for a long time
with his handsome wife, Jean Armour. At Dalswinton the first steamboat made its first trip,
and Burns was on it. All round us now was Scott's "Red-gauntlet" country; and the bridge crossing
the Nith at Dumfries was built by Devorgilla. There was something to see and think of every
minute; and in fifty-nine miles we had followed Burns's whole life-story on its slow way from
Ayr to Dumfries. Only--we couldn't follow his thoughts to the stars!

We had stopped many times; still it wasn't yet five o'clock, and we had time to see all that's
sacred to Burns at Dumfries, the "Fair Queen of the South," as Sir S. called it, quoting I
don't know what.

First we went to the house in Bank Street where Burns came when he left Ellisland, and had
seventy pounds a year to live on instead of fifty--a sad and grim little house, where in the
wee closet that was his study we could hear the music of the Nith, but catch no sparkle of
its water. He had hardly air enough to fan the fire of genius, yet it went on turning brightly
because nothing could put it out. If it was a sad house to live in, it must have been even
sadder to die in.

I found those words in the Poems bound in tartan which Basil had bought for me in a fascinating
bookshop at Ayr and I read them in the room where the poet died. Afterward I was glad to see
in St. Michael's churchyard a great many of the "loves and friendships" resting near him in
his long sleep. Their presence consoled me for the mausoleum which nobody can admire nowadays,
or think worthy of him. Almost, I would rather have had him lie under one of those strange,
enormous tombstones like stone cupboards or tables which clutter the graveyard.

While we were trying to find the burial-place of Napoleon's doctor, and some martyrs and cholera
victims Mrs. James was interested in, Mrs. West and Basil appeared, and then the Americans.
Sir S. looked horribly bored, when he saw the four tall, brown, nice-looking boys, and asked
me quite fiercely if I'd given them permission to follow us every step of the way. I snapped
back, "No, of course not!" And immediately he said, "Forgive me. If you had, after all where
would be the harm?"

There was no time for more. We had to say, "How do you do?" to Basil and Aline; and then the
boys surged round us, in their high spirits rather like big Newfoundland puppies sacrilegiously
racing each other among the graves. They had been reading up history on purpose to please me,
they announced, and were ready to bet five pounds against a glove that they knew more than
I did. Was I aware that Dumfries meant "fort in the thorn bushes?" Had I learned that the British
Christian chief, who was the real King Arthur, fought with pagan Saxons all along the Nith.
Did I know it was in Grayfriars, or the Minories Church, that Bruce killed the Red Comyn, Devorgilla's
grandson?

They won the glove; and then there was a scene when they took a penknife and cut it up in four
pieces, one for each man. I tried to keep them from being so foolish, but might as well have
tried to stop the wind from blowing; and it was no wonder that Mrs. West turned her back on
us rather than see those dreadful boys ostentatiously stowing away the bits of gray kid in
what Jack Morrison called their "heart-pockets."

I was afraid Sir S. might think it was my fault, their coming to stay at the pretty hotel he'd
chosen for us because it overlooked the river; but it wasn't a bit. It was just as much a coincidence
as Mrs. West and Basil finding three Canadian friends already there--perhaps even more of a
coincidence; for it didn't seem to me that Mrs. West was really astonished at finding these
people at a Dumfries hotel, or they at finding her and Basil. I was there when they met in
the hall: two rather handsome dark men, brothers, named Vanneck, and the fair, thin little
wife of the younger one. All they said at first was, "Well, this is nice! How do you do?" And
it struck me afterward, when I thought it over, that if it had been a great surprise, they
would have mentioned it. I wondered if they hadn't corresponded and arranged it somehow, for
they appeared to know each other very well, and to be the best of friends, especially the elder
Mr. Vanneck and Mrs. West, who called each other "Aline" and "George." After dinner it turned
out that she had been inviting the Vannecks to go on to Melrose and Edinburgh in Old Blunderbore,
without consulting the chauffeur-owner of the car. He thought the load, with extra luggage,
too heavy for Blunderbore's powers; consequently Mrs. West threw herself on the mercy of Sir
S. She asked if the Gray Dragon could take Basil, and the Gray Dragon's master quietly said yes.

After Mrs. West had walked with Sir S. in the churchyard of St. Michael's, he seemed very thoughtful
and a little gloomy, even stiff in his manner with me. At first I felt it must be that she
had said something to change him toward me, but again I told myself that that was a silly and
far-fetched suspicion. It was more likely that he disapproved of my "larking" with the American
boys and giving them a glove to divide in bits. Afterward, too, when they turned up at our
hotel, he might easily have thought I'd encouraged them to follow us again.

I hoped for a chance to put that idea out of his mind, but next morning, starting for Melrose,
Vedder had the place next Sir S., and Basil, Mrs. James, and I were all three together behind.

We started before Aline West and her friends the Vannecks (her special one is a widower, very
rich, who has proposed several times, she told Mrs. James); but the four boys waited for us
to get off again, so they might know where we were going; and I began to be almost angry, because
of the wrong impression their nonsense was making on Sir S. It had been so good to get him
back yesterday that it was worse than ever so see him slipping quietly away once more.

If it hadn't been for these worries, it would have been a wonderful day.

From Dumfries we ran up and down nice scallopy hills, crossing the Annan at a place named Beattock,
for Moffat, where there are sulphur wells a girl discovered two hundred years ago, and made
the fortune of the town. Then there was a lovely road along Moffat Water, with a succession
of wild green dells and hillsides cleft with fern-choked ravines. Still we were in Burns's
country, for by Craigie Burn lived Jean Lorimer, to whom he wrote love-songs; and a little
farther on was the scene where "Willie brewed a peck o' maut." The next bit of beauty was associated
with the Ettrick Shepherd (I can't bear to think of his name being Hogg), for he wrote a Covenanter
story, "Brownie of Bodesbeck," about a mountain we could see hovering in the distance.

All Moffatdale looked a haunt for fairies, so no wonder it is cram full of legends; and if
I had been sitting with Sir S. I should have begged him to stop and let us scramble up a rocky
path to the haunt of a pale spirit disguised as a waterfall. The Gray Mare's Tail is a disguising
name, too, for there is nothing gray about it, but all white as streaming moonlight; and Sir
S. and I together might have stood a good chance of finding the rainbow key, sparkling on some
cushion of irridescent spray. We missed the chance, however; and who knows if it will ever
come again?

Basil had bought a volume of Scott's poems for me, to match the Burns's and he found in "Marmion"--where
he knew it existed--a verse about the torrent:

    Issuing forth one foamy wave,
    And wheeling round the Giant's Grave,
    White as a snowy charger's tail
    Drives down the pass of Moffatdale.

So already we were coming into Scott's country. I remember Birkhill, because it's the watershed
between the Moffat and the Yarrow, and the word "watershed" goes through my mind with a musical
white rush, like a cataract. It suggests beautiful faraway things. Besides, there's another
reason for remembering. Close by, at Dobbs Linn, the Covenanters used to hide in the time of
the great persecution.

We swept through some bare, bleak country before coming to the Yarrow, but the rover brought
us back to gentle, cultivated land, with thoughts of her favourite Wordsworth for Mrs. James;
and soon we came to a very famous place, Tibbie Shiels's Inn. I had never heard of it, but
that doesn't take from its fame! Basil and Mrs. James could both tell me how Scott, and Christopher
North, and De Quincey, and a long list of other great men, used to meet at the house kept by
Mrs. Richardson, "Tibbie," who outlived all the noble company, and was buried at last in the
same churchyard with the Ettrick Shepherd.

By and by our road dropped down and down to the shores of lonely St. Mary's Loch (Scott wrote
of it in "Marmion"), and at the end of the still lake to Dryhope Tower, where brave Mary Scott,
his ancestress, "The Flower of Yarrow," had her birthplace.

So we went on to Selkirk on its hill overlooking Ettrick Water, and stopped just long enough
to buy some of the celebrated "bannocks" for our picnic luncheon later on, and to have a glance
at the statues of Sir Walter Scott and Mungo Park, the African traveller. Basil pretended to
be shocked because I had never heard of him! "And you had never heard of Aline and me till
you met us," he sighed, shaking his head. "I suppose you never heard of the sutors of Selkirk,
either? The burly sutors who 'firmly stood' at Flodden when other 'pow'rful clans gave way'?
Well, I'm glad, anyhow, that we aren't the only people you'd never heard of!"

Basil seemed very happy, and kind, and understanding, somehow, as if he saw that something
was not quite right with me, and he wanted to console me as well as he could.

Sir S. had managed very clearly about not letting us stop to look at the town of Burns's death
until we'd seen the place of his birth and traced out the path of his life-story; but he couldn't
contrive the same kind of trip for Sir Walter Scott's country without going over the whole
road twice. Besides, he wanted us to see Melrose by moonlight, and said it would be "incomparably
better than Sweetheart Abbey." But I knew it wouldn't be better for me, and I didn't quite
forgive him for thinking it possible, now that we had got so mixed up with irrelevant people.

We had to go to Jedburgh first, the place farthest south; then to Dryburgh; then flashing through
Melrose to Abbotsford, where Scott died as well as lived; and then back to Melrose for the
night. That was his plan; and I still supposed that we were to go on somewhere else next day--Sunday--not
arriving in Edinburgh till Monday. But it seems that Sir S. had made up his mind to a different
programme, though he said nothing about it then.

Things happened to the boys' car on the way to Jedburgh, though the road was good, and only
undulating. Basil said that, as a matter of fact, he had "ill-wished" them and their auto,
and as "thoughts are things," he had created the nail on which their tire came to grief. "Somerled
and I want to be the only ones," he added mysteriously. "We'll have no interlopers." Which
would have made me think him rather a frivolous person, after all, if he hadn't been so well
up in the lore of the road, and known so many interesting things about Jedburgh, the county
town of Roxburghshire.

"If we curse a mere nail on a white velvet road-surface nowadays," said he, "think what the
roads must have been like when Jedburgh had a royal castle, and kings and queens were travelling
about from one of their houses to another! Think what Queen Mary must have had to endure, even
bringing things down to modern times, comparatively. She stayed in Jedburgh town, in an old
house in Queen Street--came for assizes, I think. Then, while she was there, bored to death,
she heard that Bothwell was 'sick of a wound' at Hermitage Castle, over twenty miles distant.
In an hour she was on her palfrey and off to see him, falling into a morass on the way. But
she got back again that night, rather than her good subjects should say she neglected their
affairs. She fell ill with fever after her exertions. What wouldn't she have given for a motor-car?
But how she would have been bumped and bruised if she'd had one, though the roads were grand
then compared to the state they'd fallen into after the Romans marched out of Scotland. Imagine
the early kings and queens with their processions passing where we pass now; and armies returning
from battle with their prisoners; and bands of pilgrims going to some sacred shrine; and robber
hordes moving at night; and wild-beast shows on the way from one fair to another. Can't you
see the panorama?"

I could, easily, picture after picture. But when you come to think of it, he'd mentioned nothing
as curious as motors, which we take quietly for granted, just as our forefathers took the wild
beasts and the robbers.

We had a glimpse of Burns's "Eden scenes on crystal Jed," though only enough to be aggravating,
for Basil said there were prehistoric caves, and scenery enough to make a journey to Scotland
worth while, if one came for nothing else. But people in motor-cars never seem to turn aside
for anything. They go toward their destination like creatures possessed. So, although Jedburgh
is supposed to be the most historic town of the Lowlands, we hardly looked at it in our haste
to see the Abbey, and to rush on to other Abbeys--a dayful of Abbeys! Not that Jedburgh put
itself out to attract us. It had rather a grim air as a town, as if it hadn't quite forgotten
the fierce slogan of the Jedburgh men, who shouted "Jethart's here!" as they wielded the terrible
Jethart axes invented by themselves. And one isn't allowed to go inside Queen Mary's house
to see the tapestry her ladies worked.

I wished to think no abbey so beautiful as Sweetheart Abbey, which was my first, and seen on
the first night of the heather moon; but I had to tell myself that Jedburgh was lovelier, in
its garden on the river-bank. Dreaming of its own reflection, its hollow, window-eyes could
see, deep down under a glass, all its own history and legends preserved forever as in a crystal
casket; the story of saintly King David who built it, and of the French friars who left their
own Abbey at Beauvais to people it; better still, of the wedding with the spectre guest--the
marriage of little French Jolette to Alexander, the last of the Celtic kings. Perhaps, too,
the window-eyes peering into the crystal could see the figure of Sir Walter Scott, seeking
and finding inspiration in the Abbey's old tales.

Basil, who told me the stories, read in a book that "Jedburgh is completer than Kelso or Dryburgh,
and simpler and more harmonious than Melrose," so when the four boys appeared at last in Dryburgh
Abbey, having calmly missed out Jedburgh and Kelso to save time, I used the criticism as if
it were original, with great effect; for by that time we had made a side dash to see lovely
Kelso, where Sir Walter went to the Grammar School, and met Ballantyne, who long afterward
published his novels and brought about his bankruptcy. I heard also, read out from the same
book, that the stone of Dryburgh was taken from the quarry that built Melrose, and that the
name Dryburgh meant "Druid." Even the boys, I think, could hardly help feeling the mysterious,
haunting charm of the place, which was as strange and secret as if the dark yew trees and Lebanon
cedars guarding the ruins were enchanted Druid priests. There was a Druid urn, too, which looked
as if it knew all the secrets of the ages, and had held sacrificial blood.

I could imagine Sir Walter Scott coming to Dryburgh again and again, and loving the hidden
spot so well that he wanted to sleep his last sleep there. Such a peaceful sleep it must be
with the Tweed singing out of sight, and yews old as legend to play lullabies upon their own
harp-strings when the wind touches their dark, rustling sleeves.

The song of the Tweed at Abbotsford was the song of Inspiration, changing to the song of Fulfilment
in the master's passing hour. Now, at Dryburgh, the river veils itself like a mourner, and
its song is the Sleep Music which has in it the secret of death and of life beyond. I stood
for a minute alone in front of the tomb where Sir Walter's body lies with those he loved best,
in the place he loved best, and transparent green shadows like the spirits of shadow hid me
from the sunlight. While I shut my eyes, I could understand the message of the song. And I
knew that if my knight had been with me it would have come to him in the same way, because
we are both of the land where the old, old secrets of wind and waves and rock are in the blood
of the people, and sung by their bards. It is perhaps the mysterious kinship of far-off ancestry
which draws me to him, and tells me that we two belong together--that others stand outside
as strangers.

Just then I felt that it would have been worth the bother of being born only for the sake of
that minute, if I had no other minutes worth living; and it seemed that some knowledge was
coming back to me which souls forget as bodies grow up to manhood or womanhood. But suddenly
Basil's voice broke the Music. "You look as if you were conjuring up the White Lady of Avenel,
who will come to any one who knows how to call her, here at Dryburgh," he said. And I opened
my eyes as if he had jerked me back by the arm from the days of the Druids to the era of motor-cars.
And so he had--by the ear, not the arm. If Sir S. had spoken to me then it would have been
different. I begin to think he is going to be the only Real Man in my world. But if I find
that out, and he doesn't think me the only Real Girl, what will become of me?

After we had done what Mrs. West, in her pretty little tinkling voice, called "exhausting Dryburgh"
(as if one could!) we went to Melrose, only four miles away, to leave our luggage at a nice
hotel and take rooms for the night, before going on another mile and a half to Abbotsford.
I little thought what a surprise I should have by and by, owing to this plan of action mapped
out by Sir S.

The next thing that happened to us was seeing the many turreted house built by the "Wizard
of the North," when his wish was to found a great Border family. He didn't realize then that
he was founding a great school of romance and that all the world would be his family in mind
and heart.

A book Basil had, said that the house was "ill-placed," but to me that seemed a dull and unimaginative
criticism. Nowadays people may think a great deal about wide views from their windows; and
if I ever build a house with a fairy wand, that's what I shall choose to have myself. But perhaps
in Sir Walter's day the thing most sought for was a peaceful, sheltered outlook all to yourself
and your family, like a secret garden of which only you had the key. Just such an outlook the
Wizard had from his windows; and of course what he most wished for was to bring the singing
Tweed into his secret garden, just as you coax a lovely wild bird, if you can whistle its own
notes, under the trees it loves.

Perhaps if Sir Walter had not been able to look out over his flowers and hay-scented meadows
to the friendly river, inspiration might have failed him in his troubles. But, you see, he
had that secret garden of his soul; and when he was there it must have walled him into a region
of peace where worries could do no more than knock at the door.

Wandering over the big house with Mrs. James and Basil (the boys in the background), I was
glad, glad that Sir Walter had owned so many treasures, and collected so many curiosities;
yet I felt an undertone of sadness even in the library (where the twenty thousand books are,
given back by those decent bodies, his creditors), a sadness like that which must have pressed
on his spirit, thinking of all the money he had paid for his home, and the beautiful things
in it--all the money he would have to make out of his brain to clear away the debt. "When I
do build my house, I shall have a gallery like this in the library," I said, thinking Basil
was close behind me, as he had been; but instead, there was Sir S. standing silently by. Basil
had gone into the study, or perhaps into the tiny "Speak a bit," to look at the wall-panelling
taken from Queen Mary's bed at Jedburgh.

"That's just what I was thinking about my library," Sir S. answered, as if I had spoken to him.

"Haven't you got one yet?" I asked.

"Only an embryo library in a flat in New York--a rather nice flat. But a flat isn't home. And
you know--you ought to know--the house of my heart is on a faraway island."

"The island of Dhrum?"

"Yes. I've just begun to realize that I never have had and never can have a real home out of
the Highlands. Would you think me an interloper--you and the other grand MacDonalds--if I,
the crofter's boy, should develop an ambition like Sir Walter's--oh, not so worthy or splendid,
because I'm neither worthy nor splendid--if I should wish to have the great house of the MacDonalds
of Dhrum, not let to me for a term of years as it is now, but bought and paid for as my own?"

"Can the MacDonalds sell?"

"Yes, and will, if I'll pay his price. You see, he has no son, only a daughter; and she, having
failed to bring off a match or two----"

(I didn't let my eyes twinkle, or my face do that weird thing, "break into a smile"; but Jack
Morrison told me that Miss MacDonald had "set her cap at the great Somerled," and torn it off
and stamped on it in rage because--this is Jack's slang--Sir S. "wasn't taking any.")

--"Having failed to bring off a match or two, has settled down into old-maidhood. She's an
enthusiastic suffragette, and hates living out of London. The Mac of D. considers his club
his castle, or a good deal better; and as he's the last of the line--not a male heir, no matter
how distant--he can do as he likes with his ancestral stronghold. You know, I suppose, your
father was born at Dunelin Castle?'

"Yes," I said. "I wish I'd been born there, instead of at Hillard House."

"So do I wish it. If you had been, I should have no hesitation in--er--in building the gallery
round the library wall."

"You think you really will decide to buy the castle?" I asked breathlessly.

"Sometimes I think so. At other times I think, Qui bono? I say to myself that I shall never
have a home, or an incentive for settling down. But come along and look at Sir Walter's treasures
before any one else appears."

"Where's Mrs. West?" I asked involuntarily.

"She's annexed your bodyguard for the moment--do you mind?--appealed to their innate love of
horrors by showing them the picture of Queen Mary's head, painted an hour after her death by
a brother of Margaret Cawood, her attendant. Suddenly I felt that, if Basil could spare you
to me for ten minutes, I should like to be the one to show you a few things--the things I loved
best when I came from Edinburgh to Abbotsford with a bit of the first money I ever earned by
my brush."

I turned on him, opening my eyes wide. "Basil spare me!" I echoed scornfully. "I'm not his
princess, even if you don't want me for yours."

"I do want you. But----"

"Oh, here he comes!" I whispered, shrill as a cricket. "Take me to see your things, quickly."

So we ran away from Basil, and I had one of the happiest hours I have ever lived through; although
the sight of Sir Walter's neat clothes in the glass case--the thick-soled boots, the broad-brimmed
hat that covered his thoughts, the coat that covered his heart--brought tears to my eyes.

Next best, I liked the bit of Queen Mary's dress, the pocket-book worked by Flora MacDonald,
Prince Charlie's "Quaich"--the cup with the glass bottom to guard the drinker against surprises--the
ivory miniatures Sir Walter and his French bride exchanged, and the Rob Roy relics. Perhaps
it is odd, but they were the very things Sir S. had remembered most affectionately. Last of
all he showed me a toadstone amulet set in silver, a charm to prevent and ward off the spells
of fairies. "If I could have had a thing like this to carry about with me in my motor-car,"
he said, "I should perhaps have been safe. But it's too late now."

He smiled at me with that whimsical yet kind smile which is the only sort he ever gives me
since Mrs. West and Basil and the boys came. Before their day, there was a different look in
his eyes. I can't tell what that difference was, but I liked the old look a thousand times
better than the new, which makes me feel I may as well go into a convent. Not that I intend
to do so!

Just then Basil came to say that his sister and the Vannecks were going, as Aline was tired;
and would Sir S. tell her what time we were to see the Abbey. Basil and I were left together--quite
as usual, lately. He made some rather nice poetical remarks about the house at Abbotsford:
how marvellously it expressed the personality and tendency of Sir Walter's mind; and how it
seemed to him that here was the true heart of Scotland embalmed in spices and laid in a shrine,
just as Robert Bruce's heart lies at Melrose. I hardly listened, though, for I was wondering
so much what Sir S. would have gone on to say about the amulet if Basil had let us alone a
minute longer. But fairy fancies were in the air, in one form or other. As we walked up the
narrow path which would bring us to the motor, Basil told me a dream he'd had the night before.
"I thought," he said, "that I was a humble reincarnation of Thomas Ecildoune--Thomas the Rhymer--and
that I was walking in the Rhymer's Glen--it isn't far out of this neighbourhood, you know--when
a Vision in a magic motor-car came sprinting down the steep curve of a rainbow. In front of
my feet, the Vision contrived to stop the car, or in another second it would have run over
me. Out she stepped and announced that she was the Queen of the Fays, whom I would remember
meeting before in my last incarnation, in the same place. Strange to say, she looked exactly
like you--and I must add, she acted exactly as you do."

"Why, what was it she did?" I couldn't help wanting to know.

"She heartlessly vanished, just as I began to hope she might remain and become my muse. You
always vanish--and generally with another man."

We both laughed, and were laughing still when we came up with Mrs. James and Mrs. Vanneck,
Mrs. West and Sir S., who were ahead of us with the others.

It had to be sunset and moonlight together for Melrose Abbey, for the heather moon was still
too young to be allowed by Mother Earth to sit up late, all alone in the sky. This was not
the "pale moonlight" Sir Walter wrote of, and looked to for inspiration in his "Lay of the
Last Minstrel," but a light of silvered rose which seemed made for love and joy. I thought,
if an alchemist or magician should pour melted gold and silver together in a rose-coloured
glass, and hold it up to the sun, it would give out a light like this. It might have been an
elixir of life, for it gave back the Abbey's youth, and more than its youthful beauty. The
bullet-shattered stone turned to blocks of pink and golden topaz, and each carving stood out
clear, rimmed with sapphire shadow, as we wandered round the cruciform Gothic ruin, our feet
noiseless on the faded velvet of the grass. Even in the darkest shadow there lay a ruby flush,
like a glow of fire under a thick film of ash; but inside the Abbey was a soft, gray gloom,
as if evening hid in the ruins waiting its time to come out. The Trinity window, the Calvary
window, the window with the Crown of Thorns, and the east window in the chancel, which Sir
Walter loved best, were all sketched against the sky in tracery of sepia and burnt amber, as
I heard Sir S. saying to Mrs. West. And though I shouldn't have known what colours to use,
because I'm not an artist, I could see that the tall stone shafts were like slender-trunked
trees crowned with high clusters of branches, as in pictures of desert palms. I wondered if
the men who carved the stone had travelled in the East and had seen palm trees rising from
pale sand, black against a paler sky. And I wondered, too, if queer knots and fantastic holes
in the gray trunks of oak had not put into men's minds the first idea of gargoyles.

Sir S. and Basil, who have been almost everywhere, agreed that they had seldom seen such marvellous
detail of carving, so many whimsically planned and exquisitely carried out irregularities,
or such lovely, well-preserved sandstone. That quarry which gave the material for Melrose and
Dryburgh was a treasure-mine, and even the Romans knew and valued it. I was quite glad to find
those two-agreeing about something, because ever since Basil joined us they have differed politely
over nearly every subject that came up.

We had been deeply occupied with Michael Scott's supposed grave, and the story of the "dark
magic" by which he divided into three, Eildon Hill, in whose caverns Arthur and his warriors
still sleep their enchanted sleep; and so, when some strangers approached us, we didn't even
look up. A very intelligent custodian, who has written a book about the Abbey, was showing
us round at that moment, and telling things about Sir Ralph Evers, whom the Douglases killed
for revenge, on Ancrum Moor, and all about the pillar with the "curly green capital." He had
saved the Douglas Heart for the last, as the crowning glory in the history of Melrose; but
when we'd done some sort of justice to everything else, he marched us into the presbytery where
the Heart is buried, and where, according to his theory, it is commemorated in the carved stone
tracery of the window.

