    "The farmer thought the young man was a simpleton, and that he,
    himself, was most wise and fortunate; but the former, nothing
    daunted by this opinion, which he was not unconscious that the
    latter entertained of him, immediately hired a set of laborers,
    and set them to work in the field trenching, as earnestly as it
    was well possible for men to labor. In the morning and evening,
    before and after having worked his ten hours, as per agreement, he
    worked with them, and continued to work in this way until, about
    the middle of the following November, he had finished the laying
    of nearly 5,000 yards of good tile under-drains. He then had the
    field plowed deep and thoroughly, and the earth thrown up as much
    as possible into ridges, and thus let it remain during the winter.
    Next spring he had the field again plowed as before, then
    cross-plowed and thoroughly pulverized with a heavy harrow, then
    sowed it with oats and clover. The yield was excellent—nothing to
    be compared to it had ever before been seen upon that field. Next
    year it gave two crops of clover, of a rich dark green, and
    enormously heavy and luxuriant; and the year following, after
    being manured at an expense of some $7 an acre, nine acres of the
    field yielded 936 bushels of corn, and 25 wagon loads of pumpkins;
    while from the remaining three acres were taken 100 bushels of
    potatoes—the return of this crop being upwards of $1,200. The time
    had now come for the field to fall into the young man’s
    possession, and the farmer unhesitatingly offered him $1,500 to
    relinquish his title to it; and when this was unhesitatingly
    refused, he offered $2,000, which was accepted.

    "The young man’s account stood thus

    Half proceeds of oats     $165 00
    and straw, first year
    Half value of sheep       25 00
    pasturage, first year
    Half of first crops of    112 50
    clover, first year
    Half of second crops of   135 00
    clover, including seed,
    second year
    Half of sheep             15 00
    pasturage, second year
    Half of crops of corn,    690 00
    pumpkins and potatoes,
    third year
    Received from farmer,     2,000 00
    for relinquishment of
    title
                              ———
    Account Dr.               $3,142 50
    To under-draining,        $325 00
    labor and tiles
    To labor and manure,      475 00
    three seasons
    To labor given to         576 00—1,376 00
    farmer, $16 per month,
    36 months
                              ———
    Balance in his favor      $1,766 50

Draining makes the farmer, to a great extent, the master of his vocation. With a sloppy, drenched,
cold, uncongenial soil, which is saturated with every rain, and takes days, and even weeks,
to become sufficiently dry to work upon, his efforts are constantly baffled by unfavorable
weather, at those times when it is most important that his work proceed without interruption.
Weeks are lost, at a season when they are all too short for the work to be done. The ground
must be hurriedly, and imperfectly prepared, and the seed is put in too late, often to rot
in the over-soaked soil, requiring the field to be planted again at a time which makes it extremely
doubtful whether the crop will ripen before the frost destroys it.

The necessary summer cultivation, between the rows, has to be done as the weather permits;
and much more of it is required because of the baking of the ground. The whole life of the
farmer, in fact, becomes a constant struggle with nature, and he fights always at a disadvantage.
What he does by the work of days, is mainly undone by a single night’s storm. Weeds grow apace,
and the land is too wet to admit of their being exterminated. By the time that it is dry enough,
other pressing work occupies the time; and if, finally, a day comes when they may be attacked,
they offer ten times the resistance that they would have done a week earlier. The operations
of the farm are carried on more expensively than if the ability to work constantly allowed
a smaller force to be employed. The crops which give such doubtful promise, require the same
cultivation as though they were certain to be remunerative, and the work can be done only with
increased labor, because of the bad condition of the soil.

From force of tradition and of habit, the farmer accepts his fate and plods through his hard
life, piously ascribing to the especial interference of an inscrutable Providence, the trials
which come of his own neglect to use the means of relief which Providence has placed within
his reach.

Trouble enough he must have, at any rate, but not necessarily all that he now has. It is not
within the scope of the best laid drains to control storm or sunshine,—but it is within their
power to remove the water of the storm, rapidly and sufficiently, and to allow the heat of
the sunshine to penetrate the soil and do its hidden work. No human improvement can change
any of the so-called "phenomena" of nature, or prevent the action of the least of her laws;
but their effects upon the soil and its crops may be greatly modified, and that which, under
certain circumstances, would have caused inconvenience or loss, may, by a change of circumstances,
be made positively beneficial.

In the practice of agriculture, which is pre-eminently an economic art, draining will be prosecuted
because of the pecuniary profit which it promises, and,—very properly,—it will not be pursued,
to any considerable extent, where the money, which it costs, will not bring money in return.
Yet, in a larger view of the case, its collateral advantages are of even greater moment than
its mere profits. It is the foundation and the commencement of the most intelligent farming.
It opens the way for other improvements, which, without it, would produce only doubtful or
temporary benefits; and it enables the farmer so to extend and enlarge his operations, with
fair promise of success, as to raise his occupation from a mere waiting upon the uncertain
favors of nature, to an intelligent handling of her forces, for the attainment of almost certain
results.

The rude work of an unthinking farmer, who scratches the surface soil with his plow, plants
his seed, and trusts to the chances of a greater or less return, is unmitigated drudgery,—unworthy
of an intelligent man; but he who investigates all of the causes of success and failure in
farming, and adapts every operation to the requirements of the circumstances under which he
works; doing everything in his power that may tend to the production of the results which he
desires, and, so far as possible, avoiding everything that may interfere with his success,—leaving
nothing to chance that can be secured, and securing all that chance may offer,—is engaged in
the most ennobling, the most intelligent and the most progressive of all industrial avocations.

In the cultivation of retentive soils, drainage is the key to all improvement, and its advantage
is to be measured not simply by the effect which it directly produces in increasing production,
but, in still greater degree, by the extent to which it prepares the way for the successful
application of improved processes, makes the farmer independent of weather and season, and
offers freer scope to intelligence in the direction of his affairs.

CHAPTER VIII. - HOW TO MAKE DRAINING TILES.

Draining tiles are made of burnt clay, like bricks and earthen-ware.

In general terms, the process is as follows:—The clay is mixed with sand, or other substances
which give it the proper consistency, and is so wetted as to form a plastic mass, to which
may be given any desired form, and which is sufficiently stiff to retain its shape. Properly
prepared clay is forced through the aperture of a die of the shape of the outside of the tile,
while a plug,—held by a support in the rear of the die,—projects through the aperture, and
gives the form to the bore of the tile. The shape of the material of the tile, as it comes
from the die, corresponds to the open space, between the plug and the edge of the aperture.
The clay is forced out in a continuous pipe, which is cut to the desired length by a wire,
which is so thin as to pass through the mass without altering the shape of the pipe. The short
lengths of pipe are dried in the air as thoroughly as they can be, and are then burned in a
kiln, similar to that used for pottery.

*Materials.*—The range of earths which may be used in the manufacture of tiles is considerable,
though clay is the basis of all of them. The best is, probably, the clay which is almost invariably
found at the bottom of muck beds, as this is finer and more compact than that which is dug
from dry land, and requires but little preparation. There is, also, a peculiar clay, found
in some localities, which is almost like quick-sand in its nature, and which is excellent for
tile-making,—requiring no freezing, or washing to prepare it for the machine. As a general
rule, any clay which will make good bricks will make tiles. When first taken from the ground,
these clays are not usually adhesive, but become so on being moistened and kneaded.

It is especially important that no limestone pebbles be mixed with the clay, as the burning
would change these to quicklime, which, in slaking, would destroy the tiles. The presence of
a limey earth, however, mixed through the mass, is a positive advantage, as in this intimate
admixture, the lime forms, under the heat of the kiln, a chemical combination with the other
ingredients; and, as it melts more readily than some of them, it hastens the burning and makes
it more complete. What is known as plastic clay, (one of the purest of the native clays,) is
too strong for tile-making, and must be "tempered," by having other substances mixed with it,
to give it a stiffer quality.

The clay which is best for brick-making, contains Silica, and Alumina in about the following
proportions:

Silica ... 55 to 75 per cent.

Alumina ... 35 to  25 per cent.

Variable quantities of other materials are usually found in connection with the clay, in its
native condition. The most common of these are the following:—

Magnesia     1 to 5 per cent.—sometimes 20 to 30 per cent.

Lime         0 to 19 per cent.

Potash       0 to  5 per cent.

Oxyd of iron 0 to 19 per cent.

"These necessary elements give fusibility to earthenware, and, therefore, allow its constituent
substances to combine in such a manner as to form a resisting body; and thus is performed with
a temperature lower in proportion as the necessary elements are more abundant."(23)

When the earth of the locality where tiles are to be made is not sufficiently strong for the
purpose, and plastic clay can be cheaply obtained from a distance, a small quantity of this
may be used to give strength and tenacity to the native material.

The compound must always contain a proper proportion of clay and sand. If too little clay is
used, the mass will not be sufficiently tough to retain its compactness as it passes through
the die of the tile machine; if too little sand, the moulded tiles will not be strong enough
to bear handling, and they will crack and warp in drying and burning. Within the proper limits,
the richer earths may be moulded much thinner, and tiles made from them may, consequently,
be made lighter for transportation, without being too weak. The best materials for tempering
stiff clays are sand, pounded brick or tile, or scoria, from smelting furnaces.

*Preparation Of Earths.*—The clay from which tiles are to be made, should be thrown out in
the fall, (the upper and lower parts of the beds being well mixed in the operation,) and made
into heaps on the surface, not more than about 3 feet square and 3 feet high. In this form,
it is left exposed to the freezing and thawing of winter, which will aid very much in modifying
its character,—making it less lumpy and more easily workable. Any stones which may appear in
the digging, should, of course, be removed, and most earths will be improved by being passed
through a pair of heavy iron rollers, before they are piled up for the winter. The rollers
should be made of cast iron, about 15 inches in diameter, and 30 inches long, and set as close
together as they can be, and still be revolved by the power of two horses. The grinding, by
means of these rollers, may add 50 cents per thousand to the cost of the tiles, but it will
greatly improve their quality.

In the spring, the clay should be prepared for tempering, by the removal of such pebbles as
it may still contain. The best way to do this is by "washing," though, if there be only a few
coarse pebbles, they may be removed by building the clay into a solid cone 2 or 3 feet high,
and then paring it off into thin slices with a long knife having a handle at each end. This
paring will discover any pebbles larger than a pea that may have remained in the clay.

Washing is the process of mixing the clay with a considerable quantity of water, so as to form
a thin paste, in which all stones and gravel will sink to the bottom; the liquid portion is
then drawn off into shallow pits or vats, and allowed to settle, the clear water being finally
removed by pumping or by evaporation, according to the need for haste. For washing small quantities
of clay, a common mortar bed, such as is used by masons, will answer, if it be supplied with
a gate for draining off the muddy water after the gravel has settled; but, if the work is at
all extensive, a washing mill will be required. It may be made in the form of a circular trough,
with scrapers for mixing the clay and water attached to a circular horse-sweep.

"Another convenient mixing machine may be constructed in the following manner: Take a large
hollow log, of suitable length, say five or six feet; hew out the inequalities with an adz,
and close up the ends with pieces of strong plank, into which bearing have been cut to support
a revolving shaft. This shaft should be sufficiently thick to permit being transfixed with
wooden pins long enough to reach within an inch or two of the sides of the log or trough, and
they should be so beveled as to form in their aggregate shape an interrupted screw, having
a direction toward that end of the box where the mixed clay is designed to pass out. In order
to effect the mixing more thoroughly, these pins may be placed sufficiently far apart to permit
the interior of the box to be armed with other pins extending toward the center, between which
they can easily move. The whole is placed either horizontally or vertically, and supplied with
clay and water in proper quantities, while the shaft is made to revolve by means of a sweep,
with horse power, running water or steam, as the case may be. The clay is put into the end
farthest from the outlet, and is carried forward to it and mixed by the motion, and mutual
action and re-action of the pins in the shaft and in the sides of the box. Iron pins may, of
course, be substituted for the wooden ones, and have the advantage of greater durability and
of greater strength in proportion to their size, and the number may therefore be greater in
a machine of any given length. The fluid mass of clay and water may be permitted to fall upon
a sieve or riddle, of heavy wire, and afterward be received in a settling vat, of suitable
size and construction, to drain off the water and let the clay dry out sufficiently by subsequent
evaporation. A machine of this construction may be made of such a size that it may be put in
motion by hand, by means of a crank, and yet be capable of mixing, if properly supplied, clay
enough to mold 800 or 1000 pieces of drain pipe per day."(24)

Mr. Parkes, in a report to the Royal Agricultural Society of England, in 1843, says:

"It is requisite that the clay be well washed and sieved before pugging, for the manufacture
of these tiles, or the operation of drawing them would be greatly impeded, by having to remove
stones from the small space surrounding the die, which determines the thickness of the pipe.
But it results from this necessary washing, that the substance of the pipe is uniformly and
extremely dense, which, consequently, gives it immense strength, and ensures a durability which
cannot belong to a more porous, though thicker, tile.

"The clay is brought from the pug-mill so dry that, when squeezed through the machine, not
a drop of water exudes,—moisture is, indeed, scarcely apparent on the surface of the raw pipe.
Hence, the tiles undergo little or no change of figure while drying, which takes place very
rapidly, because of their firm and slight substance."

                             Fig. 42 - PUG-MILL.

Tempering.—After the fine clay is relieved of the water with which it was washed, and has become
tolerably dry, it should be mixed with the sand, or other tempering material, and passed through
the Pug-Mill, (Fig. 42,) which will thoroughly mix its various ingredients, and work the whole
into a homogeneous mass, ready for the tile machine. The pug-mill is similar to that used in
brick-yards, only, as the clay is worked much stiffer for tiles than for bricks, iron knives
must be substituted for the wooden pins. These knives are so arranged as to cut the clay in
every part, and, by being set at an angle, they force it downward toward the outlet gate at
the bottom. The clay should be kept at the proper degree of moisture from the time of tempering,
and after passing through the pug-mill it should be thoroughly beaten to drive out the air,
and the beaten mass should be kept covered with wet cloths to prevent drying.

*Moulding the Tiles.*—Machines for moulding tiles are of various styles, with much variation
in the details of their construction, but they all act on the same general principle;—that
of forcing the clay through a ring-shaped aperture in an iron plate, forming a continuous pipe,
which is carried off on an endless apron, or on rollers, and cut by wires into the desired
lengths. The plates with the ring-shaped apertures are called dies; the openings are of any
desired form, corresponding to the external shape of the tiles; and the size and shape of the
bore, is determined by the core or plug, which is held in the centers of the apertures. The
construction of the die plates, and the manner of fastening the plugs, which determine the
bore of the tiles, is shown in Fig. 43. The view taken is of the inside of the plate.

                           Fig. 43 - PLATE OF DIES.

The machine consists usually of a strong iron chest, with a hinged cover, into which the clay
is placed, having a piston moving in it, connected by a rod or bar, having cog-teeth, with
a cog-wheel, which is moved by horse or hand power, and drives the piston forward with steadiness,
forcing the clay through the openings in the die-plate. The clay issues in continuous lines
of pipe. The machines most in use in this country are connected directly with the pug-mill,
and as the clay is pugged, it at once passes into the box, and is pressed out as tiles. These
machines are usually run by horse-power.

Mr. Barral, in his voluminous work on drainage,(25) describes, as follows, a cheap hand machine
which can be made by any country wheelwright, and which has a capacity of 3,000 tiles per day
(Fig. 44):

"Imagine a simple, wooden box, divided into two compartments. In the rear compartment there
stands a vertical post, fastened with two iron bolts, having heads at one end, and nuts and
screws at the other. The box is thus fixed to its support. We simply place this support on
the ground and bind its upper part with a rope to a tree, a stake, or a post. The front compartment
is the reservoir for the clay, presenting at its front an orifice, in which we fix the desired
die with a simple bolt. A wooden piston, of which the rod is jointed with a lever, which works
in a bolt at the top of the supporting post, gives the necessary pressure. When the chest is
full of clay, we bear down on the end of the lever, and the moulded tiles run out on a table
supplied with rollers. Raising the piston, it comes out of the box, which is again packed with
clay. The piston is replaced in the box; pressure is again applied to the lever, and so on.
When the line of tiles reaches the end of the table, we lower a frame on which brass wires
are stretched, and cut it into the usual lengths."

                    [Fig. 44 - CHEAP WOODEN MACHINE.]

                     Fig. 44 - CHEAP WOODEN MACHINE.

The workmen must attend well to the degree of moisture of the clay which is put into the machine.
It should be dry enough to show no undue moisture on its surface as it comes out of the die-plate,
and sufficiently moist not to be crumbled in passing the edge of the mould. The clay for small
(thin) tiles must, necessarily, be more moist than that which is to pass through a wider aperture;
and for the latter there may, with advantage, be more sand in the paste than would be practicable
with the former.

After the tiles are cut into lengths, they are removed by a set of mandrils, small enough to
pass easily into them, such as are shown in Fig. 45, (the number of fingers corresponding with
the number of rows of tiles made by the machine,) and are placed on shelves made of narrow
strips sawn from one-inch boards, laid with spaces between them to allow a free circulation of air.

         [Fig. 45 - MANDRIL FOR CARRYING TILES FROM MACHINE.]

          Fig. 45 - MANDRIL FOR CARRYING TILES FROM MACHINE.

*Drying and Rolling.*—Care must be taken that freshly made tiles be not dried too rapidly.
They should be sheltered from the sun and from strong winds. Too rapid drying has the effect
of warping them out of shape, and, sometimes, of cracking the clay. To provide against this
injury, the drying is done under sheds or other covering, and the side which is exposed to
the prevailing winds is sometimes boarded up.

For the first drying, the tiles are placed in single layers on the shelves. When about half
dried,—at which time they are usually warped more or less from their true shape,—it is well
to roll them. This is done by passing through them a smooth, round stick, (sufficiently smaller
than the bore to enter it easily, and long enough to project five or six inches beyond each
end of the tile,) and,—holding one end of the stick in each hand,—rolling them carefully on
a table. This operation should be performed when the tiles are still moist enough not to be
broken by the slight bending required to make them straight. After rolling, the tiles may be
piled up in close layers, some four or five feet high, (which will secure them against further
warping,) and left until they are dry enough for burning,—that is, as dry as they can be made
by exposure to the air.

*Burning.*—Tiles are burned in kilns in which, by the effect of flame acting directly upon
them, they are raised to a heat sufficient to melt some of their more easily fusible ingredients,
and give to them a stone-like hardness.

Kilns are of various construction and of various sizes. As this book is not intended for the
instruction of those who are engaged in the general manufacture of tiles, only for those who
may find it necessary to establish local works, it will be sufficient to describe a temporary
earthen kiln which may be cheaply built, and which will answer an excellent purpose, where
only 100,000 or 200,000 tiles per season will be required.

Directions for its construction are set forth in a letter from Mr. T. Law Hodges, of England,
to the late Earl Spencer, published in the Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society for the
year 1843, as follows:

"The form of the clay-kiln is circular, 11 feet in diameter, and 7 feet high. It is wholly
built of damp, clayey earth, rammed firmly together, and plastered, inside and out, with loam
(clay?). The earth to form the walls is dug out around the base, leaving a circular trench
about four feet wide and as many deep, into which the fire-holes of the kiln open. If wood
be the fuel used, three fire-holes will be sufficient; if coal, four will be needed. About
1,200 common brick will be wanted to build these fire-holes and flues; if coal is used, rather
fewer bricks will be wanted, but, then, some iron bars are necessary,—six bars to each fire-hole.

"The earthen walls are four feet thick at the floor of the kiln, seven feet high, and tapering
to a thickness of two feet at the top; this will determine the slope of the exterior face of
the kiln. The inside of the wall is carried up perpendicularly, and the loam plastering inside
becomes, after the first burning, like a brick wall. The kiln may be safely erected in March,
or whenever the danger of injury from frost is over. After the summer use of it, it must be
protected, by faggots or litter, against the wet and frost of winter. A kiln of these dimensions
will contain 32,500 1-1/4-inch tiles, * * * or 12,000 2-1/4-inch tiles. * * *

"In good weather, this kiln can be filled, burnt, and discharged once in every fortnight, and
fifteen kilns may be obtained in a good season, producing 487,500 1-1/4-inch tiles, and in
proportion for the other sizes.

"It requires 2 tons 5 cwt. of good coals to burn the above kiln, full of tiles."

                          [Fig. 46 - CLAY-KILN.]

                           Fig. 46 - CLAY-KILN.

A sectional view of this kiln is shown in Fig. 46, in which C, C represent sections of the
outer trench; A, one of the three fire-holes; and B, B, sections of a circular passage inside
of the wall, connected with the fire-holes, and serving as a flue for the flames, which, at
suitable intervals, pass through openings into the floor of the kiln. The whole structure should
be covered with a roof of rough boards, placed high enough to be out of the reach of the fire.
A door in the side of the kiln serves for putting in and removing the tiles, and is built up,
temporarily, with bricks or clay, during the burning. Mr. Hodges estimates the cost of this
kiln, all complete, at less than $25. Concerning its value, he wrote another letter in 1848,
from which the following is extracted:

"The experience of four years that have elapsed since my letter to the late Earl Spencer, published
in the 5th volume of the proceedings of the Royal Agricultural Society, page 57, has thoroughly
tested the merits of the temporary clay-kilns for the burning of draining-pipes described in
that letter.

"I am well aware that there were persons, even among those who came to see it, who pronounced
at once upon the construction and duration of the kiln as unworthy of attention. How far their
expectations have been realized, and what value belongs to their judgment, the following short
statement will exhibit:

"The kiln, in question, was constructed, in 1844, at a cost of £5.

"It was used four times in that year, burning each time between 18,000 and 19,000 draining
pipes, of 1-3/4 inches in diameter.

"In 1845, it was used nine times, or about once a fortnight, burning each time the same quantity
of nearly 19,000 pipes.

"In 1846, the same result.

"In 1847, it has been used twelve times, always burning the same quantity. In the course of
the last year a trifling repair in the bottom of the kiln, costing rather less than 10 shillings,
was necessary, and this is the only cost for repair since its erection. It is now as good as
ever, and might be worked at least once a fortnight through the ensuing season.

"The result of this experiment of four years shows not only the practical value of this cheap
kiln, but Mr. Hatcher, who superintends the brick and tile-yard at Benenden, where this kiln
stands, expresses himself strongly in favor of this kiln, as always producing better and more
evenly burned pipes than either of his larger and better built brick-kilns can do."

The floor of the kiln is first covered with bricks, placed on end, at a little distance from
each other, so as to allow the fire to pass between them, and the tiles are placed on end on
these. This position will afford the best draft for the flames. After the kiln is packed full,
the door-way is built up, and a slow fire is started,—only enough at first to complete the
drying of the tiles, and to do this so slowly as not to warp them out of shape. They will be
thoroughly dry when the smoke from the top of the kiln loses its dark color and becomes transparent.
When the fires are well started, the mouths of the fire-holes may be built up so as to leave
only sufficient room to put in fresh fuel, and if the wind is high, the fire-holes, on the
side against which it blows, should be sheltered by some sort of screen which will counteract
its influence, and keep up an even heat on all sides.

The time required for burning will be from two days and a night to four days and four nights,
according to the dryness of the tiles, the state of the weather, and the character of the fuel.
The fires should be drawn when the tiles in the hottest part of the kiln are burned to a "ringing"
hardness. By leaving two or three holes in the door-way, which can be stopped with loose brick,
a rod may be run in, from time to time, to take out specimen tiles from the hottest part of
the kiln, which shall have been so placed as to be easily removed. The best plan, however,—the
only prudent plan, in fact,—will be to employ an intelligent man who is thoroughly experienced
in the burning of brick and pottery, and whose judgment in the management of the fires, and
in the cooling off of the kiln, will save much of the waste that would result from inexperienced
management. After the burning is completed, from 40 to 60 hours must be allowed for the cooling
of the kiln before it is opened. If the cold air is admitted while it is still very hot, the
unequal contraction of the material will cause the tiles to crack, and a large portion of them
may be destroyed.

If any of the tiles are too much burned, they will be melted, and may stick together, or, at
least, have their shape destroyed. Those which are not sufficiently burned would not withstand
the action of the water in the soil, and should not be used. For the first of these accidents
there is no remedy; for the latter, reburning will be necessary, and under-done tiles may be
left, (or replaced,) in the kiln in the position which they occupied at the first burning,
and the second heat will probably prove sufficient. There is less danger of unequal burning
in circular than in square kilns. Soft wood is better than hard, as making a better flame.
It should be split fine, and well seasoned.

*Arrangement of the Tilery.*—Such a tilery as is described above should have a drying shed
from 60 to 80 feet long, and from 12 to 18 feet wide. This shed may be built in the cheapest
and roughest manner, the roof being covered with felting, thatch, or hemlock boards, as economy
may suggest. It should have a tier of drying shelves, (made of slats rather than of boards,)
running the whole length of each side. A narrow, wooden tram-way, down the middle, to carry
a car, by which the green tiles may be taken from the machine to the shelves, and the dry ones
from the shelves to the kiln, will greatly lessen the cost of handling.

The pug-mill and tile-machine, as well as the clay pit and the washing-mill, should be at one
end of the shed, and the kiln at the other, so that, even in rainy weather, the work may proceed
without interruption. A shed of the size named will be sufficient to dry as many tiles of assorted
sizes as can be burned in the clay-kiln described above.

*The Cost of Tiles.*—It would be impossible, at any time, to say what should be the precise
cost of tiles in a given locality, without knowing the prices of labor and fuel; and in the
present unsettled condition of the currency, any estimate would necessarily be of little value.
Mr. Parker’s estimated the cost of inch pipes in England at 6s., (about $1.50,) per thousand,
when made on the estate where they were to be used, by a process similar to that described
herein. Probably they could at no time have been made for less than twice that cost in the
United States,—and they would now cost much more; though if the clay is dug out in the fall,
when the regularly employed farm hands are short of work, and if the same men can cut and haul
the wood during the winter, the hands hired especially for the tile making, during the summer
season, (two men and two or three boys,) cannot, even at present rates of wages, bring the
cost of the tiles to nearly the market prices. If there be only temporary use for the machinery,
it may be sold, when no longer needed, for a good percentage of its original cost, as, from
the slow movement to which it is subjected, it is not much worn by its work.

There is no reason why tiles should cost more to make than bricks. A common brick contains
clay enough to make four or five 1-1/4-inch tiles, and it will require about the same amount
of fuel to burn this clay in one form as in the other. This advantage in favor of tiles is
in a measure offset by the greater cost of handling them, and the greater liability to breakage.

The foregoing description of the different processes of the manufacture of draining tiles has
been given, in order that those who find it necessary, or desirable, to establish works to
supply the needs of their immediate localities may commence their operations understandingly,
and form an approximate opinion of the promise of success in the undertaking.

Probably the most positive effect of the foregoing description, on the mind of any man who
contemplates establishing a tilery, will be to cause him to visit some successful manufactory,
during the busy season, and examine for himself the mode of operation. Certainly it would be
unwise, when such a personal examination of the process is practicable, to rely entirely upon
the aid of written descriptions; for, in any work like tile-making, where the selection, combination
and preparation of the materials, the means of drying, and the economy and success of the burning
must depend on a variety of conditions and circumstances, which change with every change of
locality, it is impossible that written directions, however minute, should be a sufficient
guide. Still, in the light of such directions, one can form a much better idea of the bearing
of the different operations which he may witness, than he could possibly do if the whole process
were new to him.

If a personal examination of a successful tilery is impracticable, it will be necessary to
employ a practical brick-maker, or potter, to direct the construction and operation of the
works, and in any case, this course is advisable.

In any neighborhood where two or three hundred acres of land are to be drained, if suitable
earths can be readily obtained, it will be cheaper to establish a tile-yard, than to haul the
necessary tiles, in wagons, a distance of ten or twenty miles. Then again, the prices demanded
by the few manufacturers, who now have almost a monopoly of the business, are exorbitantly
high,—at least twice what it will cost to make the tiles at home, with the cheap works described
above, so that if the cost of transportation on the quantity desired would be equal to the
cost of establishing the works, there will be a decided profit in the home manufacture. Probably,
also, a tile-yard, in a neighborhood where the general character of the soil is such as to
require drainage, will be of value after the object for which it was made has been accomplished.

While setting forth the advantage to the farmer of everything which may protect him against
monopolies, whether in the matter of draining-tile, or of any other needful accessory of his
business, or which will enable him to procure supplies without a ruinous outlay for transportation,
it is by no means intended that every man shall become his own tile-maker.

In this branch of manufacture, as in every other, organized industry will accomplish results
to which individual labor can never attain. A hundred years ago, when our mill-made cloths
came from England, and cost more than farmers could afford to pay, they wore home-spun, which
was neither so handsome nor so good as the imported article; but, since that time, the growing
population and the greater demand have caused cloth mills to be built here, greater commercial
facilities have placed foreign goods within easy reach, and the house loom has fallen into
general disuse.

At present, the manufacture of draining tiles is confined to a few, widely separated localities,
and each manufacturer has, thus far, been able to fix his own scale of charges. These, and
the cost of transportation to distant points, make it difficult, if not impossible, for many
farmers to procure tiles at a cost low enough to justify their use. In such cases, small works,
to supply local demand, may enable many persons to drain with tiles, who, otherwise, would
find it impossible to procure them cheaply enough for economical use; and the extension of
under-draining, causing a more general acquaintance with its advantages, would create a sufficient
demand to induce an increase of the manufacture of tiles, and a consequent reduction of price.

CHAPTER IX. - THE RECLAIMING OF SALT MARSHES.

    "Adjoining to it is Middle Moor, containing about 2,500 acres,
    spoken of by Arthur Young as ’a watery desert,’ growing sedge and
    rushes, and inhabited by frogs and bitterns;—it is now fertile,
    well cultivated, and profitable land."

The foregoing extract, from an account of the Drainage of the Fens on the eastern coast of
England, is a text from which might be preached a sermon worthy of the attention of all who
are interested in the vast areas of salt marsh which form so large a part of our Atlantic coast,
from Maine to Florida.

Hundreds of thousands of acres that might be cheaply reclaimed, and made our most valuable
and most salubrious lands, are abandoned to the inroads of the sea;—fruitful only in malaria
and musquitoes,—always a dreary waste, and often a grave annoyance.

A single tract, over 20,000 acres in extent, the center of which is not seven miles from the
heart of New York City, skirts the Hackensack River, in New Jersey, serving as a barrier to
intercourse between the town and the country which lies beyond it, adding miles to the daily
travel of the thousands whose business and pleasure require them to cross it, and constituting
a nuisance and an eyesore to all who see it, or come near it. How long it will continue in
this condition it is impossible to say, but the experience of other countries has proved that,
for an expense of not more than fifty dollars per acre, this tract might be made better, for
all purposes of cultivation, than the lands adjoining it, (many of which are worth, for market
gardening, over one thousand dollars per acre,) and that it might afford profitable employment,
and give homes, to all of the industrious poor of the city. The work of reclaiming it would
be child’s play, compared with the draining of the Harlaem Lake in Holland, where over 40,000
acres, submerged to an average depth of thirteen feet, have been pumped dry, and made to do
their part toward the support of a dense population.

The Hackensack meadows are only a conspicuous example of what exists over a great extent of
our whole seaboard;—virgin lands, replete with every element of fertility, capable of producing
enough food for the support of millions of human beings, better located, for residence and
for convenience to markets, than the prairies of the Western States,—all allowed to remain
worse than useless; while the poorer uplands near them are, in many places, teeming with a
population whose lives are endangered, and whose comfort is sadly interfered with by the insects
and the miasma which the marsh produces.

The inherent wealth of the land is locked up, and all of its bad effects are produced, by the
water with which it is constantly soaked or overflowed. Let the waters of the sea be excluded,
and a proper outlet for the rain-fall and the upland wash be provided,—both of which objects
may, in a great majority of cases, be economically accomplished,—and this land may become the
garden of the continent. Its fertility will attract a population, (especially in the vicinity
of large towns,) which could no where else live so well nor so easily.

The manner in which these salt marshes were formed may be understood from the following account
of the "Great Level of the Fens" of the eastern coast of England, which is copied, (as is the
paragraph at the head of this chapter,) from the Prize Essay of Mr. John Algernon Clarke, written
for the Royal Agricultural Society in 1846.

The process is not, of course, always the same, nor are the exact influences, which made the
English Fens, generally, operating in precisely the same manner here, but the main principle
is the same, and the lesson taught by the improvement of the Fens is perfectly applicable in
our case.

"This great level extends itself into the six counties of Cambridge, Lincoln, Huntington, Northampton,
Suffolk and Norfolk, being bounded by the highlands of each. It is about seventy miles in length,
and varies from twenty to forty miles in breadth, having an area of more than 680,000 acres.
Through this vast extent of flat country, there flow six large rivers, with their tributary
streams; namely, the Ouse, the Cam, the Nene, the Welland, the Glen, and the Witham.

"These were, originally, natural channels for conveying the upland waters to the sea, and whenever
a heavier downfall of rain than usual occurred, and the swollen springs and rivulets caused
the rivers to overflow, they must necessarily have overflowed the land to a great extent.

"This, however, was not the principal cause of the inundation of the Fens: these rivers were
not allowed a free passage to the ocean, being thus made incapable of carrying off even the
ordinary amount of upland water which, consequently, flowed over the land. The obstruction
was two-fold; first, the outfalls became blocked up by the deposits of silt from the sea waters,
which accumulated to an amazing thickness. The well known instances of boats found in 1635
eight feet below the Wisbeck River, and the smith’s forge and tools found at Skirbeck Shoals,
near Boston, buried with silt sixteen feet deep, show what an astonishing quantity of sediment
formerly choked up the mouths of these great rivers. But the chief hindrance caused by the
ocean, arose from the tide rushing twice every day for a very great distance up these channels,
driving back the fresh waters, and overflowing with them, so that the whole level became deluged
with deep water, and was, in fact, one great bay.

"In considering the state of this region as it first attracted the enterprise of man to its
improvement, we are to conceive a vast, wild morass, with only small, detached portions of
cultivated soil, or islands, raised above the general inundation; a most desolate picture when
contrasted with its present state of matchless fertility."

Salt marshes are formed of the silty deposits of rivers and of the sea. The former bring down
vegetable mould and fine earth from the uplands, and the latter contribute sea weeds and grasses,
sand and shells, and millions of animalculæ which, born for life in salt water only, die, and
are deposited with the other matters, at those points where, from admixture with the fresh
flow of the rivers, the water ceases to be suitable for their support. It is estimated that
these animalculæ alone are the chief cause of the obstructions at the mouths of the rivers
of Holland, which retard their flow, and cause them to spread over the flat country adjoining
their banks. It is less important, however, for the purposes of this chapter, to consider the
manner in which salt marshes are formed, than to discuss the means by which they may be reclaimed
and made available for the uses of agriculture. The improvement may be conveniently considered
under three heads:—

First—The exclusion of the sea water.

Second—The removal of the causes of inundation from the upland.

Third—The removal of the rain-fall and water of filtration.

*The Exclusion of the Sea* is of the first importance, because not only does it saturate the
land with water,—but this water, being salt, renders it unfertile for the plants of ordinary
cultivation, and causes it to produce others which are of little, or no value.

The only means by which the sea may be kept out is, by building such dykes or embankments as
shut out the highest tides, and, on shores which are exposed to the action of the waves, will
resist their force. Ordinarily, the best, because the cheapest, material of which these embankments
can be made, is the soil of the marsh itself. This is rarely,—almost never,—a pure peat, such
as is found in upland swamps; it contains a large proportion of sand, blue clay, muscle mud,
or other earthy deposits, which give it great weight and tenacity, and render it excellent
for forming the body of the dyke. On lands which are overflowed to a considerable extent at
each high tide, (twice a day,) it will be necessary to adopt more expensive, and more effective
measures, but on ordinary salt meadows, which are deeply covered only at the spring tides,
(occurring every month,) the following plan will be found practical and economical.

Locating the line of the embankment far enough back from the edge of the meadow to leave an
ample flat outside of it to break the force of the waves, if on the open coast, or to resist
the inroads of the current if on the bank of an estuary or a river,—say from ten to one hundred
yards, according to the danger of encroachment,—set a row of stakes parallel to the general
direction of the shore, to mark the outside line of the base of the dyke. Stake out the inside
line at such distance as will give a pitch or inclination to the slopes of one and a half to
one on the outside, and of one to one on the inside, and will allow the necessary width at
the top, which should be at least two feet higher than the level of the highest tide that is
known ever to have occurred at that place. The width of the top should never be less than four
feet, and in exposed localities it should be more. If a road will be needed around the land,
it is best, if a heavy dyke is required, to make it wide enough to answer this purpose, with
still wider places, at intervals, to allow vehicles to turn or to pass each other. Ordinarily,
however, especially if there be a good stretch of flat meadow in front, the top of the dyke
need not be more than four feet wide. Supposing such a dyke to be contemplated where the water
has been known to rise two feet above the level of the meadows, requiring an embankment four
feet high, it will be necessary to allow for the base a width of fourteen feet;—four feet for
the width of the top, six feet for the reach of the front slope, (1-1/2 to 1,) and four feet
for the reach of the back slope, (1 to 1.)

Having staked out two parallel lines, fourteen feet apart, and erected, at intervals of twenty
or thirty feet, frames made of rough strips of board of the exact shape of the section of the
proposed embankment, the workmen may remove the sod to a depth of six inches, laying it all
on the outside of the position of the proposed embankment. The sod from the line of the ditch,
from which the earth for the embankment is to be taken, should also be removed and placed with
the other. This ditch should be always inside of the dyke, where it will never be exposed to
the action of the sea. It should be, at the surface, broader than the base of the dyke, and
five feet deep in the center, but its sides may slope from the surface of the ground directly
to the center line of the bottom. This is the best form to give it, because, while it should
be five feet deep, for future uses as a drain, its bottom need have no width. The great width
at the surface will give such a pitch to the banks as to ensure their stability, and will yield
a large amount of sod for the facing of the dyke. The edge of this ditch should be some feet
away from the inner line of the embankment, leaving it a firm support or shoulder at the original
level of the ground, the sod not being removed from the interval. The next step in the work
should be to throw, or wheel, the material from the ditch on to the place which has been stripped
for the dyke, building it up so as to conform exactly to the profile frames, these remaining
in their places, to indicate the filling necessary to make up for the settling of the material,
as the water drains out of it.

                       [Fig. 47 - DYKE AND DITCH.]

                        Fig. 47 - DYKE AND DITCH.

As fast as a permanent shape can be given to the outer face of the dyke, it should be finished
by having the sod placed against it, being laid flatwise, one on top of another, (like stone
work,) in the most solid manner possible. This should be continued to the top of the slope,
and the flat top of the dyke should also be sodded,—the sods on the top, and on the slope,
being firmly beaten to their places with the back of the spade or other suitable implement.
This will sufficiently protect the exposed parts of the work against the action of any waves
that may be formed on the flat between the dyke and the deep water, while the inner slope and
the banks of the ditch, not being exposed to masses of moving water, will retain their shape
and will soon be covered with a new growth.(26) A sectional view of the above described dyke
and ditch is shown in the accompanying diagram, (Fig. 47.)

In all work of this character, it is important to regulate the amount of work laid out to be
done between the spring tides, to the laboring force employed, so that no unfinished work will
remain to be submerged and injured. When the flood comes, it should find everything finished
up and protected against its ravages, so that no part of it need be done over again.

If the land is crossed by creeks, the dyke should be finished off and sodded, a little back
from each bank, and when the time comes for closing the channel, sufficient force should be
employed to complete the dam at a single tide, so that the returning flow shall not enter to
wash away the material which has been thrown in.

If, as is often the case, these creeks are not merely tidal estuaries, but receive brooks or
rivers from the upland, provision must be made, as will be hereafter directed, for either diverting
the upland flow, or for allowing it to pass out at low water, through valve gates or sluices.
When the dam has been made, the water behind it should never be allowed to rise to nearly the
level of the full tide, and, as soon as possible, grass and willows should be grown on the
bank, to add to its strength by the binding effect of their roots.

When the dyke is completed across the front of the whole flat,—from the high land on one side
to the high land on the other, the creeks should be closed, one after the other, commencing
with the smallest, so that the experience gained in their treatment may enable the force to
work more advantageously on those which carry more water.

If the flow of water in the creek is considerable, a row of strong stakes, or piles, should
be firmly driven into the bottom mud, across the whole width of the channel, at intervals of
not more than one or two feet, and fascines,—bundles of brush bound together,—should be made
ready on the banks, in sufficient quantity to close the spaces between the piles. These will
serve to prevent the washing away of the filling during construction. The pile driving, and
the preparation of the fascines may be done before the closing of the channel with earth is
commenced, and if upland clay or gravel, to be mixed with the local material, can be economically
brought to the place by boats or wagons, it will be an advantage. Everything being in readiness,
a sufficient force of laborers to finish the dam in six hours should commence the work a little
before dead low-water, and, (with the aid of wheelbarrows, if necessary,) throw the earth in
rapidly behind the row of stakes and fascines, giving the dam sufficient width to resist the
pressure of the water from without, and keeping the work always in advance of the rising of
the tide, so that, during the whole operation, none of the filling shall be washed away by
water flowing over its top.

If the creek has a sloping bottom, the work may be commenced earlier,—as soon as the tide commences
to recede,—and pushed out to the center of the channel by the time the tide is out. When the
dam is built, it will be best to heavily sod, or otherwise protect its surface against the
action of heavy rains, which would tend to wash it away and weaken it; and the bed of the creek
should be filled in back of the dam for a distance of at least fifty yards, to a height greater
than that at which water will stand in the interior drains,—say to within three feet of the
surface,—so that there shall never be a body of water standing within that distance of the dam.

This is a necessary precaution against the attacks of muskrats, which are the principal cause
of the insecurity of all salt marsh embankments. It should be a cardinal rule with all who
are engaged in the construction of such works, never to allow two bodies of water, one on each
side of the bank to be nearer than twenty-five yards of each other, and fifty yards would be
better. Muskrats do not bore through a bank, as is often supposed, to make a passage from one
body of water to another, (they would find an easier road over the top); but they delight in
any elevated mound in which they can make their homes above the water level and have its entrance
beneath the surface, so that their land enemies cannot invade them. When they enter for this
purpose, only from one side of the dyke, they will do no harm, but if another colony is, at
the same time, boring in from the other side, there is great danger that their burrows will
connect, and thus form a channel for the admission of water, and destroy the work. A disregard
of this requirement has caused thousands of acres of salt marsh that had been enclosed by dykes
having a ditch on each side, (much the cheapest way to make them,) to be abandoned, and it
has induced the invention of various costly devices for the protection of embankments against
these attacks.(27)

When the creek or estuary to be cut off is very wide, the embankment may be carried out, at
leisure, from each side, until the channel is only wide enough to allow the passage of the
tide without too great a rush of water against the unfinished ends of the work; but, even in
these cases, there will be economy in the use of fascines and piles from the first, or of stones
if these can be readily procured. In wide streams, partial obstructions of the water course
will sometimes induce the deposit of silt in such quantities as will greatly assist the work.
No written description of a single process will suffice for the direction of those having charge
of this most delicate of all drainage operations. Much must be left to the ingenuity of the
director of the work, who will have to avail himself of the assistance of such favorable circumstances
as may, in the case in hand, offer themselves.

If the barrier to be built will require a considerable outlay, it should be placed in the hands
of a competent engineer, and it will generally demand the full measure of his skill and experience.

The work cannot be successful, unless the whole line of the water-front is protected by a continuous
bank, sufficiently high and strong in all of its parts to resist the action of the highest
tides and the strongest waves to which it will be subjected. As it is always open to inspection,
at each ebb tide, and can always be approached for repair, it will be easy to keep it in good
condition; and, if properly attended to, it will become more solid and effective with age.

*The removal of the causes of inundation from the upland* is often of almost equal importance
with the shutting out of the sea, since the amount of water brought down by rivers, brooks,
and hill-side wash, is often more than can be removed by any practicable means, by sluice gates,
or pumps.

It will be quite enough for the capacity of these means of drainage, to remove the rain-water
which falls on the flat land, and that which reaches it by under-ground springs and by infiltration,—its
proper drainage-water in short,—without adding that which, coming from a higher level, may
be made to flow off by its own fall.

Catch-water drains, near the foot of the upland, may be so arranged as to receive the surface
water of the hills and carry it off, always on a level above that of the top of the embankment,
and these drains may often be, with advantage, enlarged to a sufficient capacity to carry the
streams as well. If the marsh is divided by an actual river, it may be best to embank it in
two separate tracts; losing the margins, that have been recommended, outside of the dykes,
and building the necessary additional length of these, rather than to contend with a large
body of water. But, frequently, a very large marsh is traversed by a tortuous stream which
occupies a large area, and which, although the tidal water which it contains gives it the appearance
of a river, is only the outlet of an insignificant stream, which might be carried along the
edge of the upland in an ordinary mill-race. In such case it is better to divert the stream
and reclaim the whole area.

When a stream is enclosed between dykes, its winding course should be made straight in order
that its water may be carried off as rapidly as possible, and the land which it occupies by
its deviations, made available for cultivation. In the loose, silty soil of a salt marsh, the
stream may be made to do most of the work of making its new bed, by constructing temporary
"jetties," or other obstructions to its accustomed flow, which shall cause its current to deposit
silt in its old channel, and to cut a new one out of the opposite bank. In some instances it
may be well to make an elevated canal, straight across the tract, by constructing banks high
enough to confine the stream and deliver it over the top of the dyke; in others it may be more
expedient to carry the stream over, or through, the hill which bounds the marsh, and cause
it to discharge through an adjoining valley. Improvements of this magnitude, which often affect
the interest of many owners, or of persons interested in the navigation of the old channel,
or in mill privileges below the point at which the water course is to be diverted, will generally
require legislative interference. But they not seldom promise immense advantages for a comparatively
small outlay.

The instance cited of the Hackensack Meadows, in New Jersey, is a case in point. Its area is
divided among many owners, and, while ninety-nine acres in every hundred are given up to muskrats,
mosquitoes, coarse rushes and malaria, the other one acre may belong to the owner of an adjacent
farm who values the salt hay which it yields him, and the title to the whole is vested in many
individual proprietors, who could never be induced to unite in an improvement for the common
benefit. Then again, thanks to the tide that sets back in the Hackensack River, it is able
to float an occasional vessel to the unimportant villages at the northern end of the meadows,
and the right of navigation can be interfered with only by governmental action. If the Hackensack
River proper, that part of it which only serves as an outlet for the drainage of the high land
north of the meadows, could be diverted and carried through the hills to the Passaic; or confined
within straight elevated banks and made to discharge at high water mark at the line of the
Philadelphia Rail-road;—the wash of the highlands, east and west of the meadows, being also
carried off at this level,—the bridge of the railroad might be replaced by an earth embankment,
less than a quarter of a mile in length, effecting a complete exclusion of the tidal flow from
the whole tract.

This being done, a steam-pump, far less formidable than many which are in profitable use in
Europe for the same purpose, would empty, and keep empty, the present bed of the river, which
would form a capital outlet for the drainage of the whole area. Twenty thousand acres, of the
most fertile land, would thus be added to the available area of the State, greatly increasing
its wealth, and inducing the settlement of thousands of industrious inhabitants.

As the circumstances under which upland water reaches lands of the class under consideration
vary with every locality, no specific directions for the treatment of individual cases can
be given within the limits of this chapter; but the problem will rarely be a difficult one.

*The removal of the rain-fall and water of filtration* is the next point to be considered.

So far as the drainage of the land, in detail, is concerned, it is only necessary to say that
it may be accomplished, as in the case of any other level land which, from the slight fall
that can be allowed the drains, requires close attention and great care in the adjustment of
the grades.

The main difficulty is in providing an outlet for the drains. This can only be done by artificial
means, as the water must be removed from a level lower than high-water mark,—sometimes lower
than low-water.

If it is only required that the outlet be at a point somewhat above the level of ordinary low-water,
it will be sufficient to provide a sufficient reservoir, (usually a large open ditch,) to contain
the drainage water that is discharged while the tide stands above the floor of the outlet sluice-way,
and to provide for its outflow while the level of the tide water is below the point of discharge.
This is done by means of sluices having self-acting valves, (or tide-gates,) opening outward,
which will be closed by the weight of the water when the tide rises against them, being opened
again by the pressure of the water from within, as soon the tide falls below the level of the
water inside of the bank.

The gates and sluices may be of wood or iron,—square or round. The best would be galvanized
iron pipes and valves; but a square wooden trunk, closed with a heavy oak gate that fits closely
against its outer end, and moves freely on its hinges, will answer capitally well, if carefully
and strongly made. If the gate is of wood, it will be well to have it lie in a slightly slanting
position, so that its own weight will tend to keep it closed when the tide first commences
to rise above the floor, and might trickle in, before it had acquired sufficient head to press
the gate against the end of the trunk.

As this outlet has to remove, in a short time, all of the water that is delivered by the drains
and ditches during several hours, it should, of course, be considerably larger than would be
required for a constantly flowing drain from the same area; but the immense gates,—large enough
for a canal lock,—which are sometimes used for the drainage of a few acres of marsh, are absurd.
Not only are they useless, they are really objectionable, inasmuch as the greater extent of
their joints increases the risk of leakage at the time of high water.

The channel for the outflow of the water may sometimes, with advantage, be open to the top
of the dyke or dam,—a canal instead of a trunk; but this is rarely the better plan, and is
only admissible where the discharge is into a river or small bay, too small for the formation
of high waves, as these would be best received on the face of a well sodded, sloping bank.

The height, above absolute low water, at which the outlet should be placed, will depend on
the depth of the outlet of the land drain, and the depth of storage room required to receive
the drainage water during the higher stages of the tide. Of course, it must not be higher than
the floor of the land drain outlet, and, except for the purpose of affording storage room,
it need not be lower, although all the drainage will discharge, not only while the tide water
is below the bottom of the gate, but as long as it remains lower than the level of the water
inside. It is well to place the mouth of the trunk nearly as low as ordinary low-water mark.
This will frequently render it necessary to carry a covered drain, of wood or brick, through
the mud, out as far as the tide usually recedes,—connected with the valve gate at the outlet
of the trunk, by a covered box which will keep rubbish from obstructing it, or interfering
with its action.

When the outlet of the land-drains is below low-water mark, it is of course necessary to pump
out the drainage water. This is done by steam or by wind, the latter being economical only
for small tracts which will not bear the cost of a steam pump. Formerly, this work was done
entirely by windmills, but these afford only an uncertain power, and often cause the entire
loss of crops which are ready for the harvest, by obstinately refusing to work for days after
a heavy rain has deluged the land. In grass land they are tolerably reliable, and on small
tracts in cultivation, it is easy, by having a good proportion of open ditches, to afford storage
room sufficient for general security; but in the reclaiming of large areas, (and it is with
these that the work is most economical,) the steam pump may be regarded as indispensable. It
is fast superseding the windmills which, a few years ago, were the sole dependence in Holland
and on the English Fens. The magnitude of the pumping machinery on which the agriculture of
a large part of Holland depends, is astonishing.

There are such immense areas of salt marsh in the United States which may be tolerably drained
by the use of simple valve gates, discharging above low-water mark, that it is not very important
to consider the question of pumping, except in cases where owners of small tracts, from which
a sufficient tidal outlet could not be secured, (without the concurrence of adjoining proprietors
who might refuse to unite in making the improvement,) may find it advisable to erect small
pumps for their own use. In such cases, it would generally be most economical to use wind-power,
especially if an accessory steam pump be provided for occasional use, in emergency. Certainly,
the tidal drainage should first be resorted to, for when the land has once been brought into
cultivation, the propriety of introducing steam pumps will become more apparent, and the outlay
will be made with more confidence of profitable return, and, in all cases, the tidal outlet
should be depended on for the outflow of all water above its level. It would be folly to raise
water by expensive means, which can be removed, even periodically, by natural drainage.

When pumps are used, their discharge pipes should pass through the embankment, and deliver
the water at low-water mark, so that the engine may have to operate only against the actual
height of the tide water. If it delivered above high-water mark, it would work, even at low
tide, against a constant head, equal to that of the highest tides.

CHAPTER X. - MALARIAL DISEASES.

So far as remote agricultural districts are concerned, it is not probable that the mere question
of health would induce the undertaking of costly drainage operations, although this consideration
may operate, in connection with the need for an improved condition of soil, as a strong argument
in its favor. As a rule, "the chills" are accepted by farmers, especially at the West, as one
of the slight inconveniences attending their residence on rich lands; and it is not proposed,
in this work, to urge the evils of this terrible disease, and of "sun pain," or "day neuralgia,"
as a reason for draining the immense prairies over which they prevail. The diseases exist,—to
the incalculable detriment of the people,—and thorough draining would remove them, and would
doubtless bring a large average return on the investment;—but the question is, after all, one
of capital; and the cost of such draining as would remove fever-and-ague from the bottom lands
and prairies of the West, and from the infected agricultural districts at the East, would be
more than the agricultural capital of those districts could spare for the purpose.

In the vicinity of cities and towns, however, where more wealth has accumulated, and where
the number of persons subjected to the malarial influence is greater, there can be no question
as to the propriety of draining, even if nothing but improved health be the object.

Then again, there are immense tracts near the large cities of this country which would be most
desirable for residence, were it not that their occupancy, except with certain constant precautions,
implies almost inevitable suffering from fever-and-ague, or neuralgia.

Very few neighborhoods within thirty miles of the city of New York are entirely free from these
scourges, whose influence has greatly retarded their occupation by those who are seeking country
homes; while many, who have braved the dangers of disease in these localities, have had sad
cause to regret their temerity.

Probably the most striking instance of the effect of malaria on the growth and settlement of
suburban districts, is to be found on Staten Island. Within five miles of the Battery; accessible
by the most agreeable and best managed ferry from the city; practically, nearer to Wall street
than Murray Hill is; with most charming views of land and water; with a beautifully diversified
surface, and an excellent soil; and affording capital opportunities for sea bathing, it should
be, (were it not for its sanitary reputation, it inevitably would be,) one vast residence-park.
Except on its extreme northern end, and along its higher ridges, it has,—and, unfortunately,
it deserves,—a most unenviable reputation for insalubrity. Here and there, on the southern
slope also, there are favored places which are unaccountably free from the pest, but, as a
rule, it is, during the summer and autumn, unsafe to live there without having constant recourse
to preventive medication, or exercising unusual and inconvenient precautions with regard to
exposure to mid-day sun and evening dew. There are always to be found attractive residences,
which are deserted by their owners, and are offered for sale at absurdly low prices. There
are isolated instances of very thorough and very costly draining, which has failed of effect,
because so extensive a malarial region cannot be reclaimed by anything short of a systematic
improvement of the whole.

It has been estimated that the thorough drainage of the low lands, valleys and ponds of the
eastern end of the island, including two miles of the south shore, would at once add $5,000,000
to the market value of the real estate of that section. There can be no question that any radical
improvement in this respect would remove the only obstacle to the rapid settlement of the island
by those who wish to live in the country, yet need to be near to the business portion of the
city. The hope of such improvement being made, however, seems as remote as ever,—although any
one at all acquainted with the sources of miasm, in country neighborhoods, can readily see
the cause of the difficulty, and the means for its removal are as plainly suggested.

Staten Island is, by no means, alone in this respect. All who know the history of the settlement
of the other suburbs of New York are very well aware that those places which are free from
fever-and-ague and malarial neuralgia, are extremely rare.

The exact cause of fever-and-ague and other malarial diseases is unknown, but it is demonstrated
that, whatever the cause is, it is originated under a combination of circumstances, one of
which is undue moisture in the soil. It is not necessary that land should be absolutely marshy
to produce the miasm, for this often arises on cold, springy uplands which are quite free from
deposits of muck. Thus far, the attention of scientific investigators, given to the consideration
of the origin of malarial diseases, has failed to discover any well established facts concerning
it; but there have been developed certain theories, which seem to be sustained by such knowledge
as exists on the subject.

Dr. Bartlett, in his work on the Fevers of the United States, says:—"The essential, efficient,
producing cause of periodical fever,—the poison whose action on the system gives rise to the
disease,—is a substance or agent which has received the names of malaria, or marsh miasm. The
nature and composition of this poison are wholly unknown to us. Like most other analogous agents,
like the contagious principle of small-pox and of typhus, and like the epidemic poison of scarletina
and cholera, they are too subtle to be recognized by any of our senses, they are too fugitive
to be caught by any of our contrivances.

"As always happens in such cases and under similar circumstances, in the absence of positive
knowledge, we have been abundantly supplied with conjecture and speculation; what observation
has failed to discover, hypothesis has endeavored and professed to supply. It is quite unnecessary
even to enumerate the different substances to which malaria has been referred. Amongst them
are all of the chemical products and compounds possible in wet and marshy localities; moisture
alone; the products of animal and vegetable decomposition; and invisible living organisms.
* * * * Inscrutable, however, as the intimate nature of the substances or agents may be, there
are some few of its laws and relations which are very well ascertained. One of these consists
in its connection with low, or wet, or marshy localities. This connection is not invariable
and exclusive, that is, there are marshy localities which are not malarious, and there are
malarious localities which are not marshy; but there is no doubt whatever that it generally
exists."

In a report to the United States Sanitary Commission, Dr. Metcalfe states, that all hypotheses,
even the most plausible, are entirely unsupported by positive knowledge, and he says:—

"This confession of ignorance still leaves us in possession of certain knowledge concerning
malaria, from which much practical good may be derived.

"1st. It affects, by preference, low and moist localities.

"2d. It is almost never developed at a lower temperature than 60° Fahrenheit.

"3d. Its evolution or active agency is checked by a temperature of 32°.

"4th. It is most abundant and most virulent as we approach the equator and the sea-coast.

"5th. It has an affinity for dense foliage, which has the power of accumulating it, when lying
in the course of winds blowing from malarious localities.

"6th. Forests, or even woods, have the power of obstructing and preventing its transmission,
under these circumstances.

"7th. By atmospheric currents it is capable of being transported to considerable distances—probably
as far as five miles.

"8th. It may be developed, in previously healthy places, by turning up the soil; as in making
excavations for foundations of houses, tracks for railroads, and beds for canals.

"9th. In certain cases it seems to be attracted and absorbed by bodies of water lying in the
course of such winds as waft it from the miasmatic source.

"10th. Experience alone can enable us to decide as to the presence or absence of malaria, in
any given locality.

"11th. In proportion as countries, previously malarious, are cleared up and thickly settled,
periodical fevers disappear—in many instances to be replaced by the typhoid or typhus."

La Roche, in a carefully prepared treatise on "Pneumonia; its Supposed Connection with Autumnal
Fevers," recites various theories concerning the mode of action of marsh miasm, and finds them
insufficient to account for the phenomena which they produce. He continues as follows:—

"All the above hypotheses failing to account for the effects in question, we are naturally
led to the admission that they are produced by the morbific influence of some special agent;
and when we take into consideration all the circumstances attending the appearance of febrile
diseases, the circumscribed sphere of their prevalence, the suddenness of their attack, the
character of their phenomena, etc., we may safely say that there is nothing left but to attribute
them to the action of some poison dissolved or suspended in the air of the infected locality;
which poison, while doubtless requiring for its development and dissemination a certain degree
of heat, and terrestrial and atmospheric moisture, a certain amount of nightly condensation
after evaporation, and the presence of fermenting or decomposing materials, cannot be produced
by either of these agencies alone, and though indicated by the chemist, betrays its presence
by producing on those exposed to its influence the peculiar morbid changes characterizing fever."

He quotes the following from the Researches of Dr. Chadwick:—

"In considering the circumstances external to the residence, which affect the sanitary condition
of the population, the importance of a general land-drainage is developed by the inquiries
as to the cause of the prevalent diseases, to be of a magnitude of which no conception had
been formed at the commencement of the investigation. Its importance is manifested by the severe
consequences of its neglect in every part of the country, as well as by its advantages in the
increasing salubrity and productiveness wherever the drainage has been skillful and effectual."

La Roche calls attention to these facts:—That the acclimated residents of a malarious locality,
while they are less subject than strangers to active fever, show, in their physical and even
in their mental organization, evident indications of the ill effects of living in a poisonous
atmosphere,—an evil which increases with successive generations, often resulting in a positive
deterioration of the race; that the lower animals are affected, though in a less degree than
man; that deposits of organic matter which are entirely covered with water, (as at the bottom
of a pond,) are not productive of malaria; that this condition of saturation is infinitely
preferable to imperfect drainage; that swamps which are shaded from the sun’s heat by trees,
are not supposed to produce disease; and that marshes which are exposed to constant winds are
not especially deleterious to persons living in their immediate vicinity,—while winds frequently
carry the emanations of miasmatic districts to points some miles distant, where they produce
their worst effects. This latter statement is substantiated by the fact that houses situated
some miles to the leeward of low, wet lands, have been especially insalubrious until the windows
and doors on the side toward the source of the miasm were closed up, and openings made on the
other side,—and thenceforth remained free from the disease, although other houses with openings
on the exposed sides continued unhealthy.

The literature relating to periodical fevers contains nothing else so interesting as the very
ingenious article of Dr. J. H. Salisbury, on the "Cause of Malarious Fevers," contributed to
the "American Journal of Medical Science," for January, 1866. Unfortunately, while there is
no evidence to controvert the statements of this article, they do not seem to be honored with
the confidence of the profession,—not being regarded as sufficiently authenticated to form
a basis for scientific deductions. Dr. Salisbury claims to have discovered the cause of malarial
fever in the spores of a very low order of plant, which spores he claims to have invariably
detected in the saliva, and in the urine, of fever patients, and in those of no other persons,
and which he collected on plates of glass suspended over all marshes and other lands of a malarious
character, which he examined, and which he was never able to obtain from lands which were not
malarious. Starting from this point, he proceeds, (with circumstantial statements that seem
to the unprofessional mind to be sufficient,) to show that the plant producing these spores
is always found, in the form of a whitish, green, or brick-colored incrustation, on the surface
of fever producing lands; that the spores, when detached from the parent plant, are carried
in suspension only in the moist exhalations of wet lands, never rising higher, (usually from
35 to 60 feet,) nor being carried farther, than the humid air itself; that they most accumulate
in the upper strata of the fogs, producing more disease on lands slightly elevated above the
level of the marsh than at its very edge; that fever-and-ague are never to be found where this
plant does not grow; that it may be at once introduced into the healthiest locality by transporting
moist earth on which the incrustation is forming; that the plant, being introduced into the
human system through the lungs, continues to grow there and causes disease; and that quinia
arrests its growth, (as it checks the multiplication of yeast plants in fermentation,) and
thus suspends the action of the disease.

Probably it would be impossible to prove that the foregoing theory is correct, though it is
not improbable that it contains the germ from which a fuller knowledge of the disease and its
causes will be obtained. It is sufficient for the purposes of this work to say that, so far
as Dr. Salisbury’s opinion is valuable, it is,—like the opinion of all other writers on the
subject,—fully in favor of perfect drainage as the one great preventive of all malarial diseases.

The evidence of the effect of drainage in removing the cause of malarial diseases is complete
and conclusive. Instances of such improvement in this country are not rare, but they are much
less numerous and less conspicuous here than in England, where draining has been much more
extensively carried out, and where greater pains have been taken to collect testimony as to
its effects.

If there is any fact well established by satisfactory experience, it is that thorough and judicious
draining will entirely remove the local source of the miasm which produces these diseases.

The voluminous reports of various Committees of the English Parliament, appointed to investigate
sanitary questions, are replete with information concerning experience throughout the whole
country, bearing directly on this question.

Dr. Whitley, in his report to the Board of Health, (in 1864,) of an extended tour of observation,
says of one town that he examined:—

"Mr. Nicholls, who has been forty years in practice here, and whom I was unable to see at the
time of my visit, writes: Intermittent and remittent are greatly on the decline since the improved
state of drainage of the town and surrounding district, and more particularly marked is this
alteration, since the introduction of the water-works in the place. Although we have occasional
outbreaks of intermittent and remittent, with neuralgic attacks, they yield more speedily to
remedies, and are not attended by so much enlargement of the liver or spleen as formerly, and
dysentery is of rare occurrence."

Dr. Whitley sums up his case as follows:—

"It would appear from the foregoing inquiry, that intermittent and remittent fevers, and their
consequences, can no longer be regarded as seriously affecting the health of the population,
in many of the districts, in which those diseases were formerly of a formidable character.
Thus, in Norfolk, Lincolnshire, and Cambridgeshire, counties in which these diseases were both
frequent and severe, all the evidence, except that furnished by the Peterborough Infirmary,
and, in a somewhat less degree, in Spaulding, tends to show that they are at the present time,
comparatively rare and mild in form."

He mentions similar results from his investigations in other parts of the kingdom, and says:—

"It may, therefore, be safely asserted as regards England generally, that:—

"The diseases which have been made the subject of the present inquiry, have been steadily decreasing,
both in frequency and severity, for several years, and this decrease is attributed, in nearly
every case, mainly to one cause,—improved land drainage;" again:

"The change of local circumstances, unanimously declared to be the most immediate in influencing
the prevalence of malarious diseases, is land drainage;" and again:

"Except in a few cases in which medical men believed that these affections began to decline
previously to the improved drainage of the places mentioned, the decrease in all of the districts
where extensive drainage has been carried out, was stated to have commenced about the same
time, and was unhesitatingly attributed to that cause."

A select Committee of the House of Commons, appointed to investigate the condition and sanitary
influence of the Thames marshes, reported their minutes of evidence, and their deductions therefrom,
in 1854, The following is extracted from their report:

"It appears from the evidence of highly intelligent and eminent gentlemen of the medical profession,
residing in the neighborhood of the marshes on both sides of the Thames below London Bridge,
that the diseases prevalent in these districts are highly indicative of malarious influences,
fever-and-ague being very prevalent; and that the sickness and mortality are greatest in those
localities which adjoin imperfectly drained lands, and far exceed the usual average; and that
ague and allied disorders frequently extend to the high grounds in the vicinity. In those districts
where a partial drainage has been effected, a corresponding improvement in the health of the
inhabitants is perceptible."

In the evidence given before the committee, Dr. P. Bossey testified that the malaria from salt
marshes varied in intensity, being most active in the morning and in the Summer season. The
marshes are sometimes covered by a little fog, usually not more than three feet thick, which
is of a very offensive odor, and detrimental to health. Away from the marshes, there is a greater
tendency to disease on the side toward which the prevailing winds blow.

Dr. James Stewart testified that the effect of malaria was greatest when very hot weather succeeds
heavy rain or floods. He thought that malaria could be carried up a slope, but has never been
known to descend, and that, consequently, an intervening hill affords sufficient protection
against marsh malaria. He had known cases where the edges of a river were healthy and the uplands
malarious.

In Santa Maura and Zante, where he had been stationed with the army, he had observed that the
edge of a marsh would be comparatively healthy, while the higher places in the vicinity were
exceedingly unhealthy. He thought that there were a great many mixed diseases which began like
ague and terminated very differently; those diseases would, no doubt, assume a very different
form if they were not produced by the marsh air; many diseases are very difficult to treat,
from being of a mixed character beginning like marsh fevers and terminating like inflammatory
fevers, or diseases of the chest.

Dr. George Farr testified that rheumatism and tic-doloreux were very common among the ladies
who live at the Woolwich Arsenal, near the Thames marshes. Some of these cases were quite incurable,
until the patients removed to a purer atmosphere.

W. H. Gall, M. D., thought that the extent to which malaria affected the health of London,
must of course be very much a theoretical question; "but it is very remarkable that diseases
which are not distinctly miasmatic, do become much more severe in a miasmatic district. Influenzas,
which prevailed in England in 1847, were very much more fatal in London and the surrounding
parts than they were in the country generally, and influenza and ague poisons are very nearly
allied in their effects. Marsh miasms are conveyed, no doubt, a considerable distance. Sufficiently
authentic cases are recorded to show that the influence of marsh miasm extends several miles."
Other physicians testify to the fact, that near the Thames marshes, the prevalent diseases
are all of them of an aguish type, intermittent and remittent, and that they are accompanied
with much dysentery. Dr. John Manly said that, when he first went to Barking, he found a great
deal of ague, but since the draining, in a population of ten thousand, there are not half-a-dozen
cases annually and but very little remittent.

The following Extract is taken from the testimony of Sir Culling Eardly, Bart.:

"Chairman:—I believe you reside at Belvidere, in the parish of Erith?—Yes.—Ch.: Close to these
marshes?—Yes.—Ch.: Can you speak from your own knowledge, of the state of these marshes, with
regard to public health?—Sir C.: I can speak of some of the results which have been produced
in the neighborhood, from the condition of the marshes; the neighborhood is in one continual
state of ague. My own house is protected, from the height of its position, and a gentleman’s
house is less liable to the influence of malaria than the houses of the lower classes. But
even in my house we are liable to ague; and to show the extraordinary manner in which the ague
operates, in the basement story of this house where my men-servants sleep, we have more than
once had bad ague. In the attics of my house, where my maid-servants sleep, we have never had
it. Persons are deterred from settling in the neighborhood by the aguish character of the country.
Many persons, attracted by the beauty of the locality, wish to come down and settle; but when
they find the liability to ague, they are compelled to give up their intention. I may mention
that the village of Erith itself, bears marks of the influence of malaria. It is more like
one of the desolate towns of Italy, Ferrara, for instance, than a healthy, happy, English village.
I do not know whether it is known to the committee, that Erith is the village described in
Dickens’ Household Words, as Dumble-down-deary, and that it is a most graphic and correct description
of the state of the place, attributable to the unhealthy character of the locality."

He also stated that the ague is not confined to the marshes, but extends to the high lands
near them.

The General Board of Health, of England, at the close of a voluminous report, publish the following
"Conclusions as to the Drainage of Suburban Lands:—

"1. Excess of moisture, even on lands not evidently wet, is a cause of fogs and damps.

"2. Dampness serves as a medium for the conveyance of any decomposing matter that may be evolved,
and adds to the injurious effects of such matters in the air:—in other words the excess of
moisture may be said to increase or aggravate atmospheric impurities.

"3. The evaporation of the surplus moisture lowers the temperature, produces chills, and creates
or aggravates the sudden and injurious changes or fluctuations by which health is injured."

In view of the foregoing opinions as to the cause of malaria, and of the evidence as to the
effect of draining in removing the unhealthy condition in which those causes originate, it
is not too much to say that,—in addition to the capital effect of draining on the productive
capacity of the land,—the most beneficial sanitary results may be confidently expected from
the extension of the practice, especially in such localities as are now unsafe, or at least
undesirable for residence.

In proportion to the completeness and efficiency of the means for the removal of surplus water
from the soil:—in proportion, that is, to the degree in which the improved tile drainage described
in these pages is adopted,—will be the completeness of the removal of the causes of disease.
So far as the drying of malarious lands is concerned, it is only necessary to construct drains
in precisely the same manner as for agricultural improvement.

The removal of the waste of houses, and of other filth, will be considered in the next chapter.

The following is extracted from a report made by the General Board of Health to the British
Parliament, concerning the administration of the Public Health Act and the Nuisances Removal
and Diseases Prevention Acts from 1848 to 1854.

"Where instances have been favorable for definite observation, as in broad blocks of buildings,
the effects of sanitary improvement have been already manifested to an extent greater than
could have been anticipated, and than can be readily credited by those who have not paid attention
to the subject.

"In one favorable instance, that of between 600 and 700 persons of the working class in the
metropolis, during a period of three years, the average rate of mortality has been reduced
to between 13 and 14 in 1000. In another instance, for a shorter period, among 500 persons,
the mortality has been reduced as low as even 7 in 1000. The average rate of mortality for
the whole metropolis being 23 in 1000.

"In another instance, the abolishing of cess-pools and their replacement by water-closets,
together with the abolishing of brick drains and their replacement by impermeable and self-cleansing
stone-ware pipes, has been attended with an immediate and extraordinary reduction of mortality.
Thus, in Lambeth Square, occupied by a superior class of operatives, in the receipt of high
wages, the deaths, which in ordinary times were above the general average, or more than 30
in 1000, had risen to a rate of 55 in 1000. By the abolishing of cess-pools, which were within
the houses, and the substitution of water-closets, and with the introduction of tubular, self-cleansing
house-drains, the mortality has been reduced to 13 in 1000.

"The reduction of the mortality was effected precisely among the same occupants, without any
change in their habits whatever."

"Sewers are less important than the House-Drains and Water-Closets, and if not carrying much
water, may become cess-pools. In the case of the Square just referred to, when cess-pools and
drains of deposit were removed without any alteration whatever in the adjacent sewers, fevers
disappeared from house to house, as these receptacles were filled up, and the water-closet
apparatus substituted, merely in consequence of the removal of the decomposing matter from
beneath the houses to a distant sewer of deposit or open water course.

"If the mortality were at the same rate as in the model dwellings, or in the improved dwellings
in Lambeth Square, the annual deaths for the whole of the metropolis would be 25,000 less,
and for the whole of England and Wales 170,000 less than the actual deaths.

"If the reduced rate of mortality in these dwellings should continue, and there appears to
be no reason to suppose that it will not, the extension to all towns which have been affected,
of the improvements which have been applied in these buildings, would raise the average age
at death to about forty-eight instead of twenty-nine, the present average age at death of the
inhabitants of towns in all England and Wales."

The branch of the Art of Drainage which relates to the removal of the fecal and other refuse
wastes of the population of towns, is quite different from that which has been described in
the preceding pages, as applicable to the agricultural and sanitary improvement of lands under
cultivation, and of suburban districts. Still, the fact that town and house drainage affords
a means for the preservation of valuable manures, justifies its discussion in an agricultural
work, and "draining for health" would stop far short of completeness were no attention paid
to the removal of the cause of diseases, which are far more fatal than those that originate
in an undrained condition of the soil.

The extent to which these diseases, (of which typhoid fever is a type,) are prevented by sanitary
drainage, is strikingly shown in the extract which commences this chapter. Since the experience
to which this report refers, it has been found that the most fatal epidemics of the lower portions
of London originated in the choked condition of the street sewers, whose general character,
as well as the plan of improvement adopted are described in the following "Extracts from the
Report of the Metropolitan Board of Works," made in 1866.

"The main sewers discharged their whole contents direct into the Thames, the majority of them
capable of being emptied only at the time of low water; consequently, as the tide rose, the
outlets of the sewers were closed, and the sewage was dammed back, and became stagnant; the
sewage and impure waters were also constantly flowing from the higher grounds, in some instances
during 18 out of the 24 hours, and thus the thick and heavy substances were deposited, which
had to be afterwards removed by the costly process of hand labor. During long continued or
copious falls of rain, more particularly when these occurred at the time of high water in the
river, the closed outlets not having sufficient storage capacity to receive the increased volume
of sewage, the houses and premises in the low lying districts, especially on the south side
of the river, became flooded by the sewage rising through the house drains, and so continued
until the tide had receded sufficiently to afford a vent for the pent-up waters, when the sewage
flowed and deposited itself along the banks of the river, evolving gases of a foul and offensive
character.

"This state of things had a most injurious effect upon the condition of the Thames; for not
only was the sewage carried up the river by the rising tide, at a time when the volume of pure
water was at its minimum, and quite insufficient to dilute and disinfect it, but it was brought
back again into the heart of the metropolis, there to mix with each day’s fresh supply, until
the gradual progress towards the sea of many day’s accumulation could be plainly discerned;
the result being that the portion of the river within the metropolitan district became scarcely
less impure and offensive than the foulest of the sewers themselves. * * * * * *

"The Board, by the system they have adopted, have sought to abolish the evils which hitherto
existed, by constructing new lines of sewers, laid in a direction at right angles to that of
the existing sewers, and a little below their levels, so as to intercept their contents and
convey them to an outfall, on the north side of the Thames about 11-1/4 miles, and on the south
side about 14 miles, below London Bridge. By this arrangement as large a proportion of the
sewage as practicable is carried away by gravitation, and a constant discharge for the remainder
is provided by means of pumping. At the outlets, the sewage is delivered into reservoirs situate
on the banks of the Thames, and placed at such levels as enable them to discharge into the
river at or about the time of high water. The sewage thus becomes not only at once diluted
by the large volume of water in the river at the time of high water, but is also carried by
the ebb 26 miles below London Bridge, and its return by the following flood-tide within the
metropolitan area, is effectually prevented."

The details of this stupendous enterprise are of sufficient interest to justify the introduction
here of the "General Statistics of the Works" as reported by the Board.

"A few statistics relative to the works may not prove uninteresting. The first portion of the
works was commenced in January 1859, being about five months after the passing of the Act authorising
their execution. There are 82 miles of main intercepting sewers in London. In the construction
of the works 318,000,000 of bricks, and 880,000 cubic yards of concrete have been used, and
3,500,000 cubic yards of earth excavated. The cost, when completed, will have been about £4,200,000.
The total pumping power employed is 2,300 nominal horse power: and if the engines were at full
work, night and day, 44,000 tons of coals per annum would be used; but the average consumption
is estimated at 20,000 tons. The sewage to be intercepted by the works on the north side of
the river, at present amounts to 10,000,000 cubic feet, and on the south side 4,000,000 cubic
feet per day; but provision is made for an anticipated increase in these quantities, in addition
to the rainfall, amounting to a total of 63,000,000 cubic feet per day, which is equal to a
lake of 482 acres, three feet deep, or 15 times as large as the Serpentine in Hyde Park."

A very large portion of the sewage has to be lifted thirty-six feet to the outfall sewer. The
works on the north side of the Thames were formally opened, by the Prince of Wales, in April 1865.

In the hope that the immense amount of sewage, for which an escape has been thus provided,
might be profitably employed in agriculture, advertisements were inserted in the public journals
asking for proposals for carrying out such a scheme; and arrangements were subsequently made
for an extension of the works, by private enterprise, by the construction of a culvert nine
and a half feet in diameter, and forty miles in length, capable of carrying 12,000,000 cubic
feet of sewage per day to the barren sands on the coast of Essex; the intention being to dispose
of the liquid to farmers along the line, and to use the surplus for the fertilization of 7000
acres, (to be subsequently increased,) which are to be reclaimed from the sea by embankments
and valve sluice-gates.

The estimated cost of this enterprise is about $10,000,000.

The work which has been done, and which is now in contemplation, in England, is suggestive
of what might, with advantage, be adopted in the larger cities in America. Especially in New
York an improved means of outlet is desirable, and it is doubtful whether the high rate of
mortality of that city will be materially reduced before effective measures are devised for
removing the vast accumulations of filth, which ebb and flow in many of the larger sewers,
with each change of the tide; and which are deposited between the piers along the river-sides.

It would be practicable to construct a main receiving sewer under the river streets, skirting
the city, from the vicinity of Bellevue Hospital on the east side, passing near the outer edge
of the Battery, and continuing to the high land near 60th street on the west side; having its
water level at least twenty feet below the level of the street, and receiving all of the sewage
which now flows into the river. At the Battery, this receiving sewer might be connected, by
a tunnel, with the Brooklyn shore, its contents being carried to a convenient point south of
Fort Hamilton,—where their discharge, (by lifting steam pumps), into the waters of the Lower
Bay, would be attended with no inconvenience. The improvement being carried out to this point,
it would probably not be long before the advantages to result from the application of the sewage
to the sandy soil on the south side of Long Island would be manifest.

The effect of such an improvement on the health of the city,—which is now in constant danger
from the putrefying filth of the sewers, (these being little better than covered cess-pools
under the streets,)—would, no doubt, equal the improvement that has resulted from similar work
in London.

The foregoing relates only to the main outlets for town sewage. The arterial drainage, (the
lateral drains of the system,) which receives the waste of the houses and the wash of the streets,
is entirely dependent on the outlet sewers, and can be effective only when these are so constructed
as to afford a free outfall for the matters that it delivers to them. In many towns, owing
to high situation, or to a rapid inclination of surface, the outfall is naturally so good as
to require but little attention. In all cases, the manner of constructing the collecting drains
is a matter of great importance, and in this work a radical change has been introduced within
a few years past.

Formerly, immense conduits of porous brick work, in all cases large enough to be entered to
be cleansed, by hand labor, of their accumulated deposits, were considered necessary for the
accommodation of the smallest discharge. The consequence of this was, that, especially in sewers
carrying but little water, the solid matters contained in the sewage were deposited by the
sluggish flow, frequently causing the entire obstruction of the passages. Such drains always
required frequent and expensive cleansing by hand, and the decomposition of the filth which
they contained produced a most injurious effect on the health of persons living near their
connections with the street. The foul liquids with which they were filled, passing through
their porous walls, impregnated the earth near them, and sometimes reached to the cellars of
adjacent houses, which were in consequence rendered extremely unhealthy. Many such sewers are
now in existence, and some such are still being constructed. Not only are they unsatisfactory,
they are much more expensive in construction, and require much attention and labor for repairs,
and cleansing, than do the stone-ware pipe sewers which are now universally adopted wherever
measures are taken to investigate their comparative merits. An example of the difference between
the old and modern styles of sewers is found in the drainage of the Westminster School buildings,
etc., in London.

The new drainage conveys the house and surface drainage of about two acres on which are fifteen
large houses. The whole length of the drain is about three thousand feet, and the entire outlet
is through two nine inch pipes. The drainage is perfectly removed, and the pipes are always
clean, no foul matters being deposited at any point. This drainage has been adopted as a substitute
for an old system of sewerage of which the main was from 4 feet high, by 3 feet 6 inches wide,
to 17 feet high and 6 or 7 feet wide. The houses had cess-pools beneath them, which were filled
with the accumulations of many years, while the sewers themselves were scarcely less offensive.
This condition resulted in a severe epidemic fever of a very fatal character.

An examination instituted to discover the cause of the epidemic resulted in the discovery of
the facts set forth above, and there were removed from the drains and cess-pools more than
550 loads of ordure. The evaporating surface of this filth was more than 2000 square yards.

Since the new drainage, not only has there been no recurrence of epidemic fever, but "a greater
improvement in the general health of the population has succeeded than might be reasonably
expected in a small block of houses, amidst an ill-conditioned district, from which it cannot
be completely isolated."

The principle which justifies the use of pipe sewers is precisely that which has been described
in recommending small tiles for agricultural drainage,—to wit: that the rapidity of a flow
of water, and its power to remove obstacles, is in proportion to its depth as compared with
its width. It has been found in practice, that a stream which wends its sluggish way along
the bottom of a large brick culvert, when concentrated within the area of a small pipe of regular
form, flows much more rapidly, and will carry away even whole bricks, and other substances
which were an obstacle to its flow in the larger channel. As an experiment as to the efficacy
of small pipes Mr. Hale, the surveyor, who was directed by the General Board of Health of London
to make the trial, laid a 12-inch pipe in the bottom of a sewer 5 feet and 6 inches high, and
3 feet and 6 inches wide. The area drained was about 44 acres. He found the velocity of the
stream in the pipe to be four and a half times greater than that of the same amount of water
in the sewer. The pipe at no time accumulated silt, and the force of the water issuing from
the end of the pipe kept the bottom of the sewer perfectly clear for the distance of 12 feet,
beyond which point some bricks and stones were deposited, their quantity increasing with the
distance from the pipe. He caused sand, pieces of bricks, stones, mud, etc., to be put into
the head of the pipe. These were all carried clear through the pipe, but were deposited in
the sewer below it.

It has been found by experiment that in a flat bottomed sewer, four feet wide, having a fall
of eight inches in one hundred feet, a stream of water one inch depth, runs very sluggishly,
while the same water running through a 12-inch pipe, laid on the same inclination, forms a
rapid stream, carrying away the heavy silt which was deposited in the broad sewer. As a consequence
of this, it has been found, where pipe sewers are used, even on almost imperceptible inclinations,
that silt is very rarely deposited, and the waste matters of house and street drainage are
carried immediately to the outlet, instead of remaining to ferment and poison the atmosphere
of the streets through which they pass. In the rare cases of obstruction which occur, the pipes
are very readily cleansed by flushing, at a tithe of the cost of the constant hand-work required
in brick sewers.

For the first six or seven hundred feet at the head of a sewer, a six inch pipe will remove
all of the house and street drainage, even during a heavy rain fall; and if the inclination
is rapid, (say 6 inches to 100 feet,) the acceleration of the flow, caused partly by the constant
additions to the water, pipes of this size may be used for considerably greater distances.
It has been found by actual trial that it is not necessary to increase the size of the pipe
sewer in exact proportion to the amount of drainage that it has to convey, as each addition
to the flow, where drainage is admitted from street openings or from houses, accelerates the
velocity of the current, pipes discharging even eight times as much when received at intervals
along the line as they would take from a full head at the upper end of the sewer.

For a district inhabited by 10,000 persons, a 12-inch pipe would afford a sufficient outlet,
unless the amount of road drainage were unusually large, and for the largest sewers, pipes
of more than 18 inches diameter are rarely used, these doing the work which, under the old
system, was alloted to a sewer 6 feet high and 3 feet broad.

Of course, the connections by which the drainage of roads is admitted to these sewers, must
be provided with ample silt-basins, which require frequent cleaning out. In the construction
of the sewers, man-holes, built to the surface, are placed at sufficient intervals, and at
all points where the course of the sewer changes, so that a light placed at one of these may
be seen from the next one;—the contractor being required to lay the sewer so that the light
may be thus seen, a straight line both of inclination and direction is secured.

The rules which regulate the laying of land-drains apply with equal force in the making of
sewers, that is no part of the pipe should be less perfect, either in material or construction,
than that which lies above it; and where the inclination becomes less, in approaching the outlet,
silt-basins should be employed, unless the decreased fall is still rapid. The essential point
of difference is, that while land drains may be of porous material, and should have open joints
for the admission of water, sewer pipes should be of impervious glazed earthen-ware, and their
joints should be securely cemented, to prevent the escape of the sewage, which it is their
province to remove, not to distribute. Drains from houses, which need not be more than 3 or
4 inches in diameter, should be of the same material, and should discharge with considerable
inclination into the pipes, being connected with a curving branch, directing the fluid towards
the outlet.

In laying a sewer, it is customary to insert a pipe with a branch opposite each house, or probable
site of a house.

It is important that, in towns not supplied with waterworks, measures be taken to prevent the
admission of too much solid matter in the drainage of houses. Water being the motive power
for the removal of the solid parts of the sewage, unless there be a public supply which can
be turned on at pleasure, no house should deliver more solid matter than can be carried away
by its refuse waters.

The drainage of houses is one of the chief objects of sewerage.

In addition to the cases cited above of the model lodging houses in Lambeth Square, and of
the buildings at Westminster, it may be well to refer to a remarkable epidemic which broke
out in the Maplewood Young Ladies’ Institute in Pittsfield, Mass., in 1864, which was of so
violent and fatal a character as to elicit a special examination by a committee of physicians.
The family consisted, (pupils, servants, and all,) of one hundred and twelve persons. Of these,
fifty-one were attacked with well-defined typhoid fever during a period of less than three
weeks. Of this number thirteen died. The following is extracted from the report of the committee:

"Of the 74 resident pupils heard from, 66 are reported as having had illness of some kind at
the close of the school or soon after. This is a proportion of 33/37 or nearly 90 per cent.
Of the same 74, fifty-one had typhoid fever, or a proportion of nearly 69 per cent. If all
the people in the town, say 8000, had been affected in an equal proportion, more than 7000
would have been ill during these few weeks, and about 5500 of them would have had typhoid fever,
and of these over 1375 would have died. If it would be a more just comparison to take the whole
family at Maplewood into the account, estimating the number at 112, fifty-six had typhoid fever,
or 50 per cent., and of these fifty-six, sixteen died, or over 28.5 per cent. These proportions
applied to the whole population of 8000, would give 4000 of typhoid fever in the same time;
and of these 1140 would have died. According to the testimony of the practising physicians
of Pittsfield, the number of cases of typhoid fever, during this period, aside from those affected
by the influences at Maplewood, was small, some physicians not having had any, others had two
or three." These cases amounted to but eight, none of which terminated fatally.

The whole secret of this case was proven to have been the retention of the ordure and waste
matter from the kitchens and dormitories in privies and vaults, underneath or immediately adjoining
the buildings, the odor from these having been offensively perceptible, and under certain atmospheric
conditions, having pervaded the whole house.

The committee say "it would be impossible to bring this report within reasonable limits, were
we to discuss the various questions connected with the origin and propagation of typhoid fever,
although various theoretical views are held as to whether the poison producing the disease
is generated in the bodies of the sick, and communicated from them to the well, or whether
it is generated in sources exterior to the bodies of fever patients, yet all authorities maintain
that a peculiar poison is concerned in its production.

"Those who hold to the doctrine of contagion admit that, to give such contagion efficacy in
the production of wide spread results, filth or decaying organic matter is essential; while
those who sustain the theory of non-contagion—the production of the poison from sources without
the bodies of the sick—contend that it has its entire origin in such filth—in decomposing matter,
especially in fermenting sewage, and decaying human excreta.

"The injurious influence of decomposing azotised matter, in either predisposing to or exciting
severe disease, and particularly typhoid fever, is universally admitted among high medical
authorities."

The committee were of the opinion "that the disease at Maplewood essentially originated in
the state of the privies and drainage of the place; the high temperature, and other peculiar
atmospheric conditions developing, in the organic material thus exposed, a peculiar poison,
which accumulated in sufficient quantity to pervade the whole premises, and operated a sufficient
length of time to produce disease in young and susceptible persons. * * * * * *  To prevent
the poison of typhoid fever when taken into the system, from producing its legitimate effects,
except by natural agencies, would require as positive a miracle as to restore a severed head,
or arrest the course of the heavenly bodies in their spheres. * * * The lesson for all, for
the future, is too obvious to need further pointing out; and the committee cannot doubt that
they would hazard little in predicting that the wisdom obtained by this sad experience, will
be of value in the future management of this institution, and secure precautions which will
forever prevent the recurrence of such a calamity."

The results of all sanitary investigation indicate clearly the vital necessity for the complete
and speedy removal from human habitations of all matters which, by their decomposition, may
tend to the production of disease, and early measures should be taken by the authorities of
all towns, especially those which are at all compactly built, to secure this removal. The means
by which this is to be effected are to be found in such a combination of water-supply and sewerage,
as will furnish a constant and copious supply of water to dissolve or hold in suspension the
whole of the waste matters, and will provide a channel through which they may be carried away
from the vicinity of residences. If means for the application of the sewage water to agricultural
lands can be provided, a part if not the whole of the cost of the works will be thus returned.

Concerning the details of house drainage, it would be impossible to say much within the limits
of this book. The construction of water-closets, soil-pipes, sinks, etc., are too will be understood
to need a special description here.

The principal point, (aside from the use of pipes instead of brick-sewers and brick house-drains,)
is what is called in London the system of Back Drainage, where only principal main lines of
sewers are laid under the streets, all collecting sewers passing through the centres of the
blocks in the rear of the houses. Pipes for water supply are disposed in the same manner, as
it is chiefly at the rears of houses that water is required, and that drainage is most necessary;
and this adjustment saves the cost, the annoyance and the loss of fall, which accompany the
use of pipes running under the entire length of each house. Much tearing up of pavements, expensive
ditching in hard road-ways, and interference with traffic is avoided, while very much less
ditching and piping is necessary, and repairs are made with very little annoyance to the occupants
of houses. The accompanying diagrams, (Figs. 48-49,) illustrate the difference between the
old system of drainage with brick sewers under the streets, and brick drains under the houses,
and pipe sewers under main streets and through the back yards of premises. A measurement of
these two methods will show that the lengths of the drains in the new system, are to those
of the old, as 1 to 2-1/4;—the fall of the house drains, (these having much less length,) would
be 10 times more in the one case than in the other;—the main sewers would have twice the fall,
their area would be only 1/30], and their cubic contents only 1/73.

            [Fig. 48 - OLD STYLE HOUSE DRAINAGE AND SEWERAGE.]

             Fig. 48 - OLD STYLE HOUSE DRAINAGE AND SEWERAGE.

Experience in England has shown that if the whole cost of water supply and pipe sewers is,
with its interest, divided over a period of thirty years,—so that at the end of that time it
should all be repaid,—the annual charge would not be greater than the cost of keeping house-drains
and cess-pools pools clean. The General Board of Health state that "the expense of cleansing
the brick house-drains and cess-pools for four or five years, would pay the expense of properly
constructed water-closets and pipe-drains, for the greater number of old premises."

One of the reports of this body, which has added more than any other organization to the world’s
knowledge on these subjects, closes with the following:

"Conclusions obtained as to house drainage, and the sewerage and cleansing of the sites of towns."

"That no population living amidst impurities, arising from the putrid emanations from cess-pools,
drains and sewers of deposit, can be healthy or free from the attacks of devastating epidemics.

"That as a primary condition of salubrity, no ordure and town refuse can be permitted to remain
beneath or near habitations.

"That by no means can remedial operations be so conveniently, economically, inoffensively,
and quickly effected as by the removal of all such refuse dissolved or suspended in water.

"That it has been subsequently proved by the operation of draining houses with tubular drains,
in upwards of 19,000 cases, and by the trial of more than 200 miles of pipe sewers, that the
practice of constructing large brick or stone sewers for general town drainage, which detain
matters passing into them in suspension in water, which accumulate deposit, and which are made
large enough for men to enter them, and remove the deposit by hand labor, without reference
to the area to be drained, has been in ignorance, neglect or perversion of the above recited
principles.

"That while sewers so constructed are productive of great injury to the public health, by the
diffusion into houses and streets of the noxious products of the decomposing matters contained
in them, they are wasteful from the increased expense of their construction and repair, and
from the cost of ineffectual efforts to keep them free from deposit.

"That the house-drains, made as they have heretofore been, of absorbent brick or stone, besides
detaining substances in suspension, accumulating foul deposit, and being so permeable as to
permit the escape of the liquid and gaseous matters, are also false in principle and wasteful
in the expense of construction, cleansing and repair.

"That it results from the experience developed in these inquiries, that improved tubular house-drains
and sewers of the proper sizes, inclinations, and material, detain and accumulate no deposit,
emit no offensive smells, and require no additional supplies of water to keep them clear.

"That the offensive smells proceeding from any works intended for house or town drainage, indicate
the fact of the detention and decomposition of ordure, and afford decisive evidence of mal-construction
or of ignorant or defective arrangement.

"That the method of removing refuse in suspension in water by properly combined works, is much
better than that of collecting it in pits or cess-pools near or underneath houses, emptying
it by hand labor, and removing it by carts.

"That it is important for the sake of economy, as well as for the health of the population,
that the practice of the removal of refuse in suspension in water, and by combined works, should
be applied to all houses, especially those occupied by the poorer classes."

Later investigations of the subject have established two general conclusions applicable to
the subject, namely, that:

"In towns all offensive smells from the decomposition of animal and vegetable matter, indicate
the generation and presence of the causes of insalubrity and of preventable disease, at the
same time that they prove defective local administration; and correlatively, that:

"In rural districts all continuous offensive smells from animal and vegetable decomposition,
indicate preventable loss of fertilizing matter, loss of money, and bad husbandry."

The principles herein set forth, whether relating to sanitary improvement, to convenience and
decency of living, or to the use of waste matters of houses in agricultural improvement, are
no less applicable in America than elsewhere; and the more general adoption of improved house
drainage and sewerage, and of the use of sewage matters in agriculture, would add to the health
and prosperity of its people, and would indicate a great advance in civilization.

INDEX

      Absorption and Filtration, 26-39
      Angles to be, as far as possible, avoided, 99

      Baking of clay soils by evaporation, 30
      Barley, 168
      Bartlett, Dr., quotation from, 211
      Base-line, 145
      Boning-rods, (with illustrations), 125-126

      Central Park, 74-86
      Cess-pools, cause of epidemics, 237
      Chadwick, Dr., quotation from, 213
      Clay Soils, 75
      Clay Soils, Baking of by Evaporation, 30
      Clay Soils, Made mellow by draining, 29-30
      Clay Soils, Shrinkage of, 28
      Clinometer, (illustration), 56
      Collars, 84
      Connections, 132
      Connections  (illustrations), 134
      Corn, Indian, 162
      Cost of draining, 150-153-158
      Cotton, 169
      Covering and filling, cost of, 157
      Covering  for the joints of tiles, 132
      Covering tiles, 136

      Datum-line, 52-104
      Denton, J. Bailey, quotation from, 115
      Distance between drains, 73
      Diseases, malarial, 208
      Ditches, cost of digging, 154
      Draining, amateur, 47
      Draining, indications of the need of, 9
      Draining, its effect on farming, 171
      Draining, tiles, how made, 174
      Draining, tiles, materials for, 174
      Draining, tools, (illustration), 114
      Draining, what it costs, 150
      Draining, will it pay? 161
      Draining, when necessary, 7
      Drains, Cubic yards of excavation in, 155
      Drains, and drained land, care of, 144
      Drains, lateral, should be parallel, 99
      Drains, how they act, 21
      Drains, obstructed, how cleared, 146
      Drains, old, how formed, 146
      Drains, rate of fall, 90
      Drains, their action in the Central Park, 86
      Drained Soil, capacity for receiving water of rains, 23
      Drainage of dwelling houses, 232
      Drought, 37-40

      Economy versus cheapness, 152
      Engineering and Superintendence, cost of, 153
      Engineers, draining, 47
      Epidemic at Maplewood Young Ladies’ Institute, 232
      Epidemics caused by cess-pools, 237
      Epidemics caused by ordure beneath houses, 238
      Evaporation, 33
      Evaporation, amount of, 34
      Evaporation, effect on temperature, 33-35
      Evaporation, heat lost during, 34

      Fall, rate of in drains, 77
      Fallacies in draining, 62
      Fen-lands of England, 193
      Fever and Ague, 208
      Fever and Ague, exact cause unknown, 210
      Filtration and absorption, 26-39
      Filling, illustration of—ditch with, furrows, 141
      Filling, maul for ramming, (illustration), 138
      Filling, scraper for, (illustration), 140
      Filling, the ditches, 136
      Finishing tools, (illustration), 123
      Finishing scoop, 123
      Finishing scoop, how used, 126
      Foot-pick, (illustration), 156
      Four-foot drains, 70

      Germination of seeds, 13
      Gisborne, Thos., quotations from, 28-31-35-47-66-78-84-93-127
      Grading, 124
      Grading,  cost of, 156
      Grade stakes, 103
      Grades, computation for, 109
      Grades, how to establish, 107
      Gratings in Silt-basins, 148

      Hackensack meadows, 203
      Hay, 168
      Heat, amount of lost during evaporation, 34
      House drainage, 220
      House drainage, back drain system, 235
      House drainage bad, indicated by offensive smells, 239

      Indications of the need of draining, 9
      Injury from standing water in the subsoil, 15
      Impervious soil, 31

      John Johnson, 164

      Land requiring draining, 7
      Lateral drains, 61-97
      Lateral drains, direction of, 75
      Lateral drains, shallow, how connected with deep main, 111
      La Roche, quotations from, 213
      Levels, how to take for drains, 104
      Levelling instrument, (illustration), 52
      Levelling  rod, (illustration), 53
      Location of main drains, 58

      Madden, Dr., quotation from, 12
      Main drain, 96
      Main drain, location of, 58
      Malaria 211
      Malaria borne by winds, 212-214-219
      Malaria conclusions of the General Board of Health of England, 220
      Malaria facts concerning, 212
      Malaria spread of, prevented by hills, 218
      Malarial diseases, evidence of the effect of drainage in removing,
      216
      Malarial diseases, reports to the British Parliament concerning, 216
      Malarial diseases, rheumatism and tic-douloureux, 219
      Malarious localities, effects of residence in, 214
      Maps, amending the, 142
      Maps, description of, (illustrations), 49-50-51-54-98
      Maps, importance of, 48
      Marking the lines, 116
      Mechi, Alderman, quotations from, 29-71
      Mellowness or Porosity, 41
      Measuring staff (illustration), 124
      Metcalf, Dr., quotation from, 211
      Movement of water in the ground, 32-64-65
      Mortality, rate of reduced by improved house drainage, 222

      Neuralgia, 208
      New York, suggestions for sewer outlets, 227

      Oats, 168
      Obstructions, 90
      Opening ditches, 122
      Outlet, 95
      Outlet, how made (with illustrations), 118
      Outlet, location of, 58

      Parkes, Josiah, quotations from, 36-71-88-178
      Porosity, 41
      Profile of a drain, (illustration), 106
      Profit, instances of, 167-170
      Production, amount of increase of, necessary to make draining
      profitable, 162
      Puddling,  8-31-148
      Pumping, 206
      Pumping, London sewage, 226

      Rock, sounding for, 55
      Rock, how to collect water from, 60
      Roots, depth to which they reach, 40-67
      Roots, as a cause of obstruction, 93-148
      Rye, 168

      Salisbury’s, Dr., theory concerning malarious fever, 214
      Salt marshes, catch water drains, 201
      Salt marshes, construction of embankment, 196
      Salt marshes, dyke and ditch, (illustration), 197
      Salt marshes, exclusion of the sea, 195
      Salt marshes, how formed, 194
      Salt marshes, inundations from upland , 201
      Salt marshes, location and size of embankment, 195
      Salt marshes, management of creeks, 198-200
      Salt marshes, management of rivers, 201
      Salt marshes, muskrats, 199
      Salt marshes, outlet for under drainage, 204-205
      Salt marshes, pumping, 206
      Salt marshes, rain-fall and filtration, 204
      Salt marshes, valve-gates and sluices, 204
      Scraper for filling ditches, (illustration), 140
      Seeds, germination of, 13
      Sewage, use of in agriculture, 226
      Sewers, defects of large, 228-238
      Sewers, description of the London outfall, 225
      Sewers, efficacy of glazed earthern pipes, 229-230-238
      Sewers, experiments of Hale on pipe sewers, 230
      Sewers, imperfect, 224
      Sewers, of brick, defective, 228-235-238
      Sewerage, conclusions of General Board of Health, 237
      Sewerage, of New York, 227
      Shrinkage of clay soils, 28
      Sides of ditches in soft land, how braced, (illustration), 124
      Silt, 90
      Silt, basins, (illustrations), 121-135-136
      Silt, basins, how made, 120
      Silt, basins, 91-96-134
      Silt, in tiles, 144
      Sources of the water in the soil, 10
      Springs, how to collect the water of, 59-60-141
      Staking out the lines, 102
      Staten Island, 209
      Steam pumps, 206
      Stone and tile drains, 142
      Sub-mains, 59

      Teams used in opening ditches, 122
      Temperature, 35-66
      Temperature, affected by draining, 36
      Tile laying, 127
      Tile-pick, (illustration), 131
      Tiles, and tile laying, cost of, 157
      Tiles, capacity for discharging water, 84-86
      Tiles, double-style, 80
      Tiles, drain—essential characteristics, 22
      Tiles, how made, 174
      Tiles, horse-shoe, 78
      Tiles, kinds and sizes, 77
      Tiles, ordering, 82-101
      Tiles, objections to large sizes, 147
      Tiles, pipes and collars, 81
      Tiles, rapidity with which they receive water, 78
      Tiles, sizes of, 81
      Tiles, sizes required for different areas, 88
      Tiles, should be well formed, 83
      Tiles, sole, 80
      Tiles, trimming and perforating, 131
      Tile making, material for, 174
      Tile preparation of earths, 176
      Tile rolling and drying, 182
      Tile washing the clay, 177
      Tobacco, 169
      Tools required, 113
      Town drainage, conclusions of General Board of Health, 237

      Undrained land not reliable for cultivation, 18

      Vermin as a cause of obstruction, 93

      Water, depth of, 66-70
      Water, in the sub-soil, injurious effects of, 15
      Water, movement of in the ground, 32-64-65
      Water, objections to excess of, 11
      Water, the best vehicle for removing ordure, 238
      Water, when beneficial and when injurious, 24
      Water-courses and brooks, how treated during draining operations,
      117
      Water-table, 22
      Wind-mills, 206
      Wheat, 164-167

DRAINING ENGINEERING.

The undersigned is prepared to assume the personal direction of works of Agricultural and Town
Drainage, and Water Supply, in any part of the country; or to send advice and information,
by letter, for the guidance of others.

Persons sending maps of their land, with contour lines, (see Fig. 8, page 54,) accompanied
by such information as can be given in writing, will be furnished with explicit instructions
concerning the arrangement and depth of the drains required; kinds and sizes of tiles to be
used; management of the work, etc., etc.

The lines of drains will be laid down, on the maps, for the direction of local engineers,—and,
when required, the grades will be calculated and noted at the positions of the stakes.

For particulars, address

GEO. E. WARING, JR., P. O. Box 290, NEWPORT, R. I.

THE SMALL FRUIT CULTURIST.

BY

ANDREW S. FULLER.

Beautifully Illustrated.

We have heretofore had no work especially devoted to small fruits, and certainly no treatises
anywhere that give the information contained in this. It is to the advantage of special works
that the author can say all that he has to say on any subject, and not be restricted as to
space, as he must be in those works that cover the culture of all fruits—great and small.

This book covers the whole ground of Propagating Small Fruits, their Culture, Varieties, Packing
for Market, etc. While very full on the other fruits, the Currants and Raspberries have been
more carefully elaborated than ever before, and in this important part of his book, the author
has had the invaluable counsel of Charles Downing. The chapter on gathering and packing the
fruit is a valuable one, and in it are figured all the baskets and boxes now in common use.
The book is very finely and thoroughly illustrated, and makes an admirable companion to the
Grape Culturist, by the same author.

CONTENTS:

CHAP. I. BARBERRY. CHAP. II. STRAWBERRY. CHAP. III. RASPBERRY. CHAP. IV. BLACKBERRY. CHAP.
V. DWARF CHERRY. CHAP. VI. CURRANT. CHAP. VII. GOOSEBERRY. CHAP. VIII. CORNELIAN CHERRY. CHAP.
IX. CRANBERRY. CHAP. X. HUCKLEBERRY. CHAP. XI. SHEPERDIA. CHAP. XII. PREPARATION FOR GATHERING
FRUIT.

Sent post-paid. Price $1.50.

ORANGE JUDD & CO., 245 Broadway, New-York.

THE GRAPE CULTURIST

BY

ANDREW S. FULLER.

NEW  AND  ENLARGED  EDITION.

THE STANDARD WORK

ON THE CULTIVATION OF THE HARDY GRAPE, AS IT NOT ONLY DISCUSSES PRINCIPLES, BUT

*ILLUSTRATES PRACTICE*.

Every thing is made perfectly plain, and its teachings may be followed upon.

ONE VINE OR A VINEYARD

The following are some of the topics that are treated:

GROWING NEW VARIETIES FROM SEED. PROPAGATION BY SINGLE BUDS OR EYES. PROPAGATING HOUSES AND
THEIR MANAGEMENT FULLY DESCRIBED. HOW TO GROW. CUTTINGS IN OPEN AIR, AND HOW TO MAKE LAYERS.
GRAFTING THE GRAPE—A SIMPLE AND SUCCESSFUL METHOD. HYBRIDIZING AND CROSSING—MODE OF OPERATION.
SOIL AND SITUATION—PLANTING AND CULTIVATION. PRUNING, TRAINING, AND TRELLISES—ALL THE SYSTEMS
EXPLAINED. GARDEN CULTURE—HOW TO GROW VINES IN A DOOR-YARD. INSECTS, MILDEW, SUN-SCALD, AND
OTHER TROUBLES. DESCRIPTION OF THE VALUABLE AND THE DISCARDED VARIETIES.

AMERICAN POMOLOGY

APPLES.

By Doct. JOHN A. WARDER,

PRESIDENT OHIO POMOLOGICAL SOCIETY; VICE-PRESIDENT AMERICAN POMOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

293 ILLUSTRATIONS.

This volume has about 750 pages, the first 375 of which are devoted to the discussion of the
general subjects of propagation, nursery culture, selection and planting, cultivation of orchards,
care of fruit, insects, and the like; the remainder is occupied with descriptions of apples.
With the richness of material at hand, the trouble was to decide what to leave out. It will
be found that while the old and standard varieties are not neglected, the new and promising
sorts, especially those of the South and West, have prominence. A list of selections for different
localities by eminent orchardists is a valuable portion of the volume, while the Analytical
Index or Catalogue Raisonné, as the French would say, is the most extended American fruit list
ever published, and gives evidence of a fearful amount of labor.

CONTENTS.

Chapter    I.—INTRODUCTORY. Chapter   II.—HISTORY OF THE APPLE. Chapter  III.—PROPAGATION.
- Buds and Cuttings—Grafting—Budding—The Nursery. Chapter   IV.—DWARFING. Chapter    V.—DISEASES.
Chapter   VI.—THE SITE FOR AN ORCHARD. Chapter  VII.—PREPARATION OF SOIL FOR AN ORCHARD. Chapter
VIII.—SELECTION AND PLANTING. Chapter   IX.—CULTURE, Etc. Chapter    X.—PHILOSOPHY OF PRUNING.
Chapter   XI.—THINNING. Chapter  XII.—RIPENING AND PRESERVING FRUITS. Chapter XIII and XIV.—INSECTS.
Chapter   XV.—CHARACTERS  OF  FRUITS  AND  THEIR VALUE—TERMS USED. Chapter  XVI.—CLASSIFICATION.
- Necessity for—Basis of—Characters—Shape—Its Regularity—Flavor—Color—Their several Values,
etc. Description of Apples. Chapter XVII.—FRUIT LISTS—CATALOGUE AND INDEX OF FRUITS.

Sent Post-Paid. Price $3.00.

ORANGE JUDD & CO., 245 Broadway, New-York

GARDENING FOR PROFIT

In the Market and Family Garden.

BY PETER HENDERSON.

FINELY ILLUSTRATED.

This is the first work on Market Gardening ever published in this country. Its author is well
known as a market gardener of eighteen years’ successful experience. In this work he has recorded
this experience, and given, without reservation, the methods necessary to the profitable culture
of the commercial or

MARKET GARDEN.

It is a work for which there has long been a demand, and one which will commend itself, not
only to those who grow vegetables for sale, but to the cultivator of the

FAMILY GARDEN,

to whom it presents methods quite different from the old ones generally practiced. It is an
ORIGINAL AND PURELY AMERICAN work, and not made up, as books on gardening too often are, by
quotations from foreign authors.

Every thing is made perfectly plain, and the subject treated in all its details, from the selection
of the soil to preparing the products for market.

CONTENTS.

Men fitted for the Business of Gardening. The Amount of Capital Required, and Working Force
per Acre. Profits of Market Gardening. Location, Situation, and Laying Out. Soils, Drainage,
and Preparation. Manures, Implements. Uses and Management of Cold Frames. Formation and Management
of Hot-beds. Forcing Pits or Green-houses. Seeds and Seed Raising. How, When, and Where to
Sow Seeds. Transplanting, Insects. Packing of Vegetables for Shipping. Preservation of Vegetables
in Winter. Vegetables, their Varieties and Cultivation.

In the last chapter, the most valuable kinds are described, and the culture proper to each
is given in detail.

THE AMERICAN AGRICULTURAL ANNUAL

FOR 1870.

A YEAR BOOK

WANTED BY EVERY BODY.

This valuable Year Book has now reached its fourth number. In its general features it follows
the plan of the three numbers that have preceded it, and, like them, is beautifully illustrated.

CONTENTS.

Almanac and Calendar for 1870. Agricultural and Kindred Journals. Agricultural and Kindred
Books. Prospect and Retrospect. Immigration. Home Markets. Coöperation among Farmers. Commercial
Fertilizers. The Crops and the Weather. Thorough Drainage. Agricultural Exhibitions. Poultry
Societies and Shows. Importation of Live Stock. Death of Distinguished Agriculturists. Inventions
affecting Agriculture. Novelties in Agricultural Seeds, etc. Oats. Sanford Corn. Potato Fever.
Adobe or Earth-wall Building—by E. G. Potter. Potatoes Worth Raising—by Dr. F. M. Hexamer.
Yield of Potatoes in 1869. Wheat Hoe. How to Train a Heifer. Care of Hen and Chickens. Cultivation
of Root Crops. Kohl Rabi. Dry Earth—the Earth-Closet Principle in the Barn. General Agricultural
Matters. Characteristics of Different Breeds of Thoroughbred Stock. Earth-Closets—Success of
the System. Progress in Fish Culture. Cold Spring Trout Ponds. Bellows Falls Trout Pond. Montdale
Ponds. S. H. Ainsworth’s Ponds and Race. Mumford Ponds. Poheganut Trout Ponds. Breeds of Fish.
Fish as Farm Stock—by W. Clift. The Stocking of Ponds and Brooks. English Agricultural Implements.
Inventions affecting Milk, and Cheese-making—by Gardner B. Weeks. Notes on Veterinary Subjects.
Coöperation in Swine-breeding. Letter from Dr. Calvin Cutter. Steaming Fodder for Milch Cows—by
S. M. and D. Wells. The Harvester, Reaper, and Mower—by Isaac W. White. Improvement in Drain
Tiles. Farmer’s Directory.

*Sent post-paid. Price, fancy paper covers, 50 cents;* *Cloth, 75 cents.*

Either of these Annuals for the three preceding years may be had at the same prices.

*ORANGE JUDD & CO.,*

245 Broadway, New-York.

THE AMERICAN HORTICULTURAL ANNUAL

FOR 1870.

A YEAR BOOK

FOR EVERY HOME.

The fourth number of this beautiful serial is now ready. It contains a popular record of horticultural
progress during the past year, with other valuable articles, many of which are illustrated
with elegant engravings.

CONTENTS.

Calendars for each Month in the Year. Astronomical Memoranda. Number of Trees, Plants, etc.,
required to Set an Acre. Hardy and Tender Vegetables. Postage on Horticultural Matter. Tables
of Quantities of Seed. The Retinisporas—By JOSIAH HOOPES. Selecting and Saving Seeds—By WM
G. COMSTOCK. Inarching the Grapevine—By "Al Fresco." Apples in 1869—with Descriptions of New
Varieties—By J. A. WARDER. Pears in 1869—with Notes on some of the Newer Varieties—By P. BARRY.
Quinces in 1869. Plums in 1869. Peaches in 1869—New Varieties—By F. R. ELLIOTT. Cherries in
1869—with Notes of New Varieties and Comments on the Nomenclature of Older Sorts. Native Grapes
in 1869. Notes on the Small Fruits in 1869—By A. S. FULLER. Hardy Trees and Shrubs in 1869.
New Roses Tested in 1869—By JOHN SAUL. The American Pomological Society. New and Interesting
Bedding and other Plants Tested in 1869—By PETER HENDERSON. New or Noteworthy Vegetables in
1869—By JAS. J. H. GREGORY, and others. Horticultural implements, etc., in 1869. Horticultural
and Kindred Journals. Books upon Horticulture and Allied Subjects, published in 1869.

[Established in 1842.]

A Good, Cheap, and very Valuable Paper for Every Man, Woman and Child,

IN CITY, VILLAGE and COUNTRY,

THE

AMERICAN AGRICULTURIST,

FOR THE

FARM, GARDEN AND HOUSEHOLD,

*Including a Special Department of Interesting and Instructive Reading for CHILDREN and YOUTH*.

The Agriculturist is a large periodical of Forty-four pages, quarto, not octavo, beautifully
printed, and filled with plain, practical, reliable, original matter, including hundreds of
beautiful and instructive *Engravings* in every annual volume.

It contains each month a Calendar of Operations to be performed on the *Farm,* in the *Orchard*
and *Garden,* in and around the *Dwelling,* etc.

The thousands of hints and suggestions given in every volume are prepared by practical, intelligent
*working men,* who know what they talk and write about. The articles are thoroughly edited,
and every way reliable.

The *Department for Children and Youth,* is prepared with special care not only to amuse, but
also to inculcate knowledge and sound moral principles.

*Terms.*—The circulation of the American Agriculturist, (*about 150,000*) is so large that
it can be furnished at the low price of $1.50 a year; four copies, one year, for $5; ten copies,
one year, for $12; twenty or more copies, one year, $1 each; single copies, 15 cents each.
An extra copy to the one furnishing a club of ten or twenty.

TRY IT A YEAR.

ORANGE JUDD & CO.,

*Publishers & Proprietors,*

*No. 245 Broadway, New-York City.*

FOOTNOTES

    1 —Puddling is the kneading or rubbing of clay with water, a process
      by which it becomes almost impervious, retaining this property until
      thoroughly dried, when its close union is broken by the shrinking of
      its parts. Puddled clay remains impervious as long as it is
      saturated with water, and it does not entirely lose this quality
      until it has been pulverized in a dry state.

      A small proportion of clay is sufficient to injure the porousness of
      the soil by puddling.—A clay subsoil is puddled by being plowed over
      when too wet, and the injury is of considerable duration. Rain water
      collected in hollows of stiff land, by the simple movement given it
      by the wind, so puddles the surface that it holds the water while
      the adjacent soil is dry and porous.

      The term puddling will often be used in this work, and the reader
      will understand, from this explanation, the meaning with which it is
      employed.

    2 By leaving a space between the wall and the plastering, this
      moisture is prevented from being an annoyance, and if the inclosed
      space is not open from top to bottom, so as to allow a circulation
      of air, but little vapor will come in contact with the wall, and but
      an inconsiderable amount will be deposited.

    3 The maps in this book are, for convenience, drawn to a scale of 160
      feet to the inch.

    4 The instrument from which this cut was taken, (as also Fig. 7) was
      made by Messrs. Blunt & Nichols, Water st., N. Y.

    5 The slight deviations caused by carrying the drains around large
      stones, which are found in cutting the ditches, do not affect the
      general arrangement of the lines.

    6 The low price at which this instrument is sold, $1.50, places it
      within the reach of all.

    7 Except from quite near to the drain, it is not probable that the
      water in the soil runs laterally towards it.

    8 Some of the drains in the Central Park have a fall of only 1 in
      1,000, and they work perfectly; but they are large mains, laid with
      an amount of care, and with certain costly precautions, (including
      precisely graded wooden floors,) which could hardly be expected in
      private work.

    9 The tile has been said, by great authorities, to be broken by
      contraction, under some idea that the clay envelops the tile and
      presses it when it contracts. That is nonsense. The contraction
      would liberate the tile. Drive a stake into wet clay; and when the
      clay is dry, observe whether it clasps the stake tighter or has
      released it, and you will no longer have any doubt whether expansion
      or contraction breaks the tile. Shrink is a better word than
      contract.

   10 Taking the difference of friction into consideration, 1-1/4 inch
      pipes have fully twice the discharging capacity of 1-inch pipes.

   11 No. 5 was one inch in diameter; No. 4, about 1-1/3 inches.

   12 If the springs, when running at their greatest volume, be found to
      require more than 1-1/4-inch tiles, due allowance must be made for
      the increase.

   13 Owing to the irregularity of the ground, and the necessity for
      placing some of the drains at narrower intervals, the total length
      of tile exceeds by nearly 50 per cent. what would be required if it
      had a uniform slope, and required no collecting drains. It is much
      greater than will be required in any ordinary case, as a very
      irregular surface has been adopted here for purposes of
      illustration.

   14 The stakes used may be 18 inches long, and driven one-half of their
      length into the ground. They should have one side sufficiently
      smooth to be distinctly marked with red chalk.

   15 The depth of 4.13, in Fig. 21, as well as the other depths at the
      points at which the grade changes, happen to be those found by the
      computation, as hereafter described, and they are used here for
      illustration.

   16 The figures in this table, as well as in the next preceding one, are
      adopted for the published profile of drain C, Fig. 21, to avoid
      confusion. In ordinary cases, the points which are fixed as the
      basis of the computation are given in round numbers;—for instance,
      the depth at C3 would be assumed to be 4.10 or 4.20, instead of
      4.13. The fractions given in the table, and in Fig. 21, arise from
      the fact that the decimals are not absolutely correct, being carried
      out only for two figures.

   17 The drains, which are removed a little to one side of the lines of
      stakes, may be turned toward the basin from a distance of 3 or 4
      feet.

   18 The foot of the measuring rod should be shod with iron to prevent
      its being worn to less than the proper length.

   19 "Talpa, or the Chronicles of a Clay Farm."

   20 When chips of tile, or similar matters, are used to cover openings
      in the tile-work, it is well to cover them at once with a mortar
      made of wet clay, which will keep them in place until the ditches
      are filled.

   21 Surely such soil ought not to require thorough draining; where men
      can go so easily, water ought to find its way alone.

   22 The land shown in Fig. 21, is especially irregular, and, for the
      purpose of illustrating the principles upon which the work should be
      done, an effort has been made to make the work as complete as
      possible in all particulars. In actual work on a field similar to
      that, it would not probably be good economy to make all the drains
      laid in the plan, but as deviations from the plan would depend on
      conditions which cannot well be shown on such a small scale, they
      are disregarded, and the system of drains is made as it would be if
      it were all plain sailing.

   23 Klippart’s Land Drainage.

   24 Klippart’s Land Drainage.

   25 Drainage des Terres Arables, Paris, 1856.

   26 The ends of the work, while the operations are suspended during
      spring tides, will need an extra protection of sods, but that lying
      out of reach of the eddies that will be formed by the receding water
      will not be materially affected.

   27 The latest invention of this sort, is that of a series of cast iron
      plates, set on edge, riveted together, and driven in to such a depth
      as to reach from the top of the dyke to a point below low-water
      mark. The best that can be said of this plan is, that its adoption
      would do no harm. Unless the plates are driven deeply into the clay
      underlying the permeable soil, (and this is sometimes very deep,)
      they would not prevent the slight infiltration of water which could
      pass under them as well as through any other part of the soil, and
      unless the iron were very thick, the corrosive action of salt water
      would soon so honeycomb it that the borers would easily penetrate
      it; but the great objection to the use of these plates is, that they
      would be very costly and ineffectual. A dyke, made as described
      above, of the material of the locality, having a ditch only on the
      inside, and being well sodded on its outer face, would be far
      cheaper and better.