  Lord of the rheumy eyes and blowing nose,
  On whom no fostering sun has ever shone,
  What mak'st thou here? Didst thou in sooth believe
  Thy presence would be welcome? Hast thou come
  Thinking to please me--me who, not at all
  Wanting to catch, have caught thee full and fair,
  And, loth to get, have got thee none the less?
  Why couldst thou not in thine own realms have stayed?
  Thou mightst have found--I can't go on like this;
  These second persons singular of verbs
  Are far too tricky; once involved in these,
  For instance, "lovedst" and "spreadst" and "stillst" and "gapest,"
  And thousands more--once, as I say, involved
  In these too clinging tendrils one is done;
  And so I find I cannot write an ode,
  Not even a ten-syllabic blank-verse ode,
  In second persons singular of verbs,
  In "snifflest" and in "wheezest" and the rest,
  For I am sure to trip and spoil the thing,
  And bring grammatic censure on my head.
  Be, therefore, plural--"you" instead of "thou"--
  Which makes things simpler. Now we can get on.
  O fain-avoided and most loathsome Cold,
  You with the sneezing, teasing, wheezing airs,
  What make you here at such a time as this,
  Melting my snowy store of handkerchiefs,
  Rasping my throat and bringing aches to range
  At large within the measure of my head?
  Platoon-Commanders of the Volunteers,
  Who now are recognised (three cheers!) at last,
  And of whose number I who write am one,
  Should be immune from colds; they sound absurd
  When bidding men to "boove to th' right id Fours,"
  Or "order arbs" (or slope) or "stad at ease,"
  Or "od the left" (or right) to "forb platood."
  Even the most submissive men begin
  To lose respect when such commands ring out.
  Wherefore, my cold--atchoo, atchoo--be off,
  Lest I report you and your deeds aright
  To Mr. TENNANT at the War Office.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the cast of The Real Thing at Last:--

    "Nearly murdered ... Mr. Godfrey Tearle (by permission of the
    Adelphi Theatre Co.)."--Daily Telegraph.

A sorry return for Mr. TEARLE'S excellent work.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "THE FLOODS IN HOLLAND.

    General Goethals states that he cannot predict a date for
    reopening the Panama Canal on account of the uncertainty of the
    movement of the slides."--North China Daily News.

It looks like an infringement of the Monroe doctrine.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

RECIPROCITY IN FICTION.

Forthcoming Masterpieces.

"It is not often," says a writer of what is called "Literary Intelligence," "that a novelist
adopts a living fellow-worker as the central figure of his story. This is, however, the case
with My Lady of the Moor, which Messrs. LONGMANS will shortly publish for Mr. JOHN OXENHAM.
While wandering on Dartmoor he stumbled into a living actual romance, of which Miss BEATRICE
CHASE, author of several popular books about Dartmoor, was the centre. This book tells the
tale, which is named after Miss CHASE, My Lady of the Moor, and it has of course been written
with her full consent and approval."

But the "Literary Intelligencer" did not know that Mr. OXENHAM is not the dazzling innovator
that he might be thought. Why, even at the moment that Mr. OXENHAM was serving up Miss CHASE
on toast, but always, of course, with perfect taste, Miss CHASE was performing the same culinary
business for him. For her next novel, to be entitled with great charm My Gentleman of the Cheek,
will present a faithful picture of the gifted JOHN and the figure he cut on Dartymoor all among
the thikkies and down-alongs and tors.

Mr. HALL CAINE, having just been pleading in public for more War realism from literary artists,
has in preparation a fascinating new romance entitled Marie of Stratford, which depicts, with
all this master's restraint, power and genius, various phases in the life of a sister-novelist
of whose existence he has recently heard. Nothing at once so charming and so arresting has
been published for days.

It is announced that Miss MARIE CORELLI, who for too long has vouchsafed nothing fresh to her
countless admirers, has just completed the (Isle of) Manuscript of a story which, like all
her works, is epoch-making. Connoisseurs of literature, always eager for a new frisson, will
be fascinated to learn that this novel has for its subject a fellow-novelist of whose retired
existence she has but lately become aware. It takes the form of a saga and is entitled Hall
of the Three Legs. Editions of a size commensurate with the scarcity of paper are being prepared.

Meanwhile we are informed that Mr. TASKER JEVONS is at work upon a trilogy of vast dimensions
and meticulous detail, of which the heroine is Miss MAY SINCLAIR.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The General Manager, in reply, said: Seeing that the privilege
    of addressing you in annual meeting comes to me once only in
    every forty-four years of service, and having regard to the vast
    interests included in this vote of thanks, there might be found
    some excuse for elaboration of acknowledgment were it not that
    discursiveness is entirely at variance with the habits of the
    staff."

    Pall Mall Gazette.

After another forty-four years' silence we hope he will really let himself go.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Exchange of Ivories.

    "Wanted, piano; dentist willing to make artificial teeth for
    same, or part."

    Edinburgh Evening Despatch.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Hint to the Censor.

    "To cool hot journals apply a dressing made of 11 lb. blacklead,
    23 lb. Epsom salts, 9 lb. sulphur, 2 lb. lampblack and 5 lb.
    oxalic acid, mixed and ground together."--Ironmonger.

       *       *       *       *       *

HIS BARK IS ON THE SEA.

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Tuesday, March 7th.--The House of Commons to-day devoted itself to the process curiously known
as "getting the SPEAKER out of the Chair." The phrase suggests reluctance on the part of the
occupant to leave his seat; though I cannot recall any occasion when the employment of force
has been necessary to persuade Mr. LOWTHER to resign to the Chairman of Committees the duty
of listening to dull speeches. But this afternoon I can imagine that the SPEAKER would have
been well content to remain. For there was fun brewing. Mr. BALFOUR was to introduce the Naval
Estimates, and his dear friend and ex-colleague, Colonel WINSTON CHURCHILL, was announced to
follow him. The conjunction of these highly-electrified bodies is always apt to produce sparks.
The House was well filled, and over the clock could be seen Lord FISHER, like "a sweet little
cherub that sits up aloft to keep watch for the life of poor Jacky." The last time Mr. CHURCHILL
spoke of Naval affairs in the House he was not quite nice to Lord FISHER. Would he be nicer
this time?

