Off he rushed, and the others were just in time to see the cordial look of honest gladness
with which William, the groom, received his young master's greeting, and the delighted recognition
between Guy, Bustle, and Deloraine. Guy had no attention for anything else till he had heard
how they had prospered on the journey; and then he turned to claim his friend's admiration
for the beautiful chestnut, his grandfather's birthday present. The ladies admired with earnestness
that compensated for want of knowledge, the gentlemen with greater science and discrimination;
indeed, Philip, as a connoisseur, could not but, for the sake of his own reputation, discover
something to criticise. Guy's brows drew together again, and his eyes glanced as if he was
much inclined to resent the remarks, as attacks at once on Deloraine and on his grandfather;
but he said nothing, and presently went to the stable with Mr. Edmonstone, to see about the
horse's accommodations. Philip stood in the hall with the ladies.

'So I perceive you have dropped the title already,' observed he to Laura.

'Yes,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, replying for her daughter, 'it seemed to give him pain by reminding
him of his loss, and he was so strange and forlorn just at first, that we were glad to do what
we could to make him feel himself more at home.'

'Then you get on pretty well now?'

The reply was in chorus with variations--'Oh, excellently!'

'He is so entertaining,' said Charlotte.

'He sings so beautifully,' said Amabel.

'He is so right-minded,' said Mrs. Edmonstone.

'So very well informed,' said Laura.

Then it all began again.

'He plays chess so well,' said Amy.

'Bustle is such a dear dog,' said Charlotte.

'He is so attentive to Charlie,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, going into the drawing-room to her son.

'Papa says he will make up for the faults of all his ancestors,' said Amabel.

'His music! oh, his music!' said Laura.

'Philip,' said Charlotte, earnestly, 'you really should learn to like him.'

'Learn, impertinent little puss?' said Philip, smiling, 'why should I not like him?'

'I was sure you would try,' said Charlotte, impressively.

'Is it hard?' said Amy. 'But, oh, Philip! you could not help liking his singing.'

'I never heard such a splendid voice,' said Laura; 'so clear and powerful, and yet so wonderfully
sweet in the low soft notes. And a very fine ear: he has a real talent for music.'

'Ah! inherited, poor fellow,' said Philip, compassionately.

'Do you pity him for it?' said Amy, smiling.

'Do you forget?' said Philip. 'I would not advise you to make much of this talent in public;
it is too much a badge of his descent.'

'Mamma did not think so,' said Amy. 'She thought it a pity he should not learn regularly, with
such a talent; so the other day, when Mr. Radford was giving us a lesson, she asked Guy just
to sing up and down the scale. I never saw anything so funny as old Mr Radford's surprise,
it was almost like the music lesson in "La Figlia del Reggimento"; he started, and looked at
Guy, and seemed in a perfect transport, and now Guy is to take regular lessons.

'Indeed.'

'But do you really mean,' said Laura, 'that if your mother had been a musician's daughter,
and you had inherited her talent, that you would be ashamed of it.'

'Indeed, Laura,' said Philip, with a smile, 'I am equally far from guessing what I should do
if my mother had been anything but what she was, as from guessing what I should do if I had
a talent for music.'

Mrs. Edmonstone here called her daughters to get ready for their walk, as she intended to go
to East-hill, and they might as well walk with Philip as far as their roads lay together.

Philip and Laura walked on by themselves, a little in advance of the others. Laura was very
anxious to arrive at a right understanding of her cousin's opinion of Guy.

'I am sure there is much to like in him,' she said.

'There is; but is it the highest praise to say there is much to like? People are not so cautious
when they accept a man in toto.'

'Then, do you not?'

Philip's answer was--

                  'He who the lion's whelp has nurst,
                   At home with fostering hand,
                   Finds it a gentle thing at first,
                   Obedient to command,'

'Do you think him a lion's whelp?'

'I am afraid I saw the lion just now in his flashing eyes and contracted brow. There is an
impatience of advice, a vehemence of manner that I can hardly deem satisfactory. I do not speak
from prejudice, for I think highly of his candour, warmth of heart, and desire to do right;
but from all I have seen, I should not venture as yet to place much dependence on his steadiness
of character or command of temper.'

'He seems to have been very fond of his grandfather, in spite of his severity. He is but just
beginning to brighten up a little.'

'Yes; his disposition is very affectionate,--almost a misfortune to one so isolated from family
ties. He showed remarkably well at Redclyffe, the other day; boyish of course, and without
much self-command, but very amiably. It is very well for him that he is removed from thence,
for all the people idolize him to such a degree that they could not fail to spoil him.'

'It would be a great pity if he went wrong.'

'Great, for he has many admirable qualities, but still they are just what persons are too apt
to fancy compensation for faults. I never heard that any of his family, except perhaps that
unhappy old Hugh, were deficient in frankness and generosity, and therefore these do not satisfy
me. Observe, I am not condemning him; I wish to be perfectly just; all I say is, that I do
not trust him till I have seen him tried.'

Laura did not answer, she was disappointed; yet there was a justice and guardedness in what
Philip said, that made it impossible to gainsay it, and she was pleased with his confidence.
She thought how cool and prudent he was, and how grieved she should be if Guy justified his
doubts; and so they walked on in such silence as is perhaps the strongest proof of intimacy.
She was the first to speak, led to do so by an expression of sadness about her cousin's mouth.
'What are you thinking of, Philip?'

'Of Locksley Hall. There is nonsense, there is affectation in that, Laura, there is scarcely
poetry, but there is power, for there is truth.'

'Of Locksley Hall! I thought you were at Stylehurst.'

'So I was, but the one brings the other.'

'I suppose you went to Stylehurst while you were at St. Mildred's? Did Margaret take you there?'

'Margaret? Not she; she is too much engaged with her book-club, and her soirées, and her societies
of every sort and kind.'

'How did you get on with the Doctor?'

'I saw as little of him as I could, and was still more convinced that he does not know what
conversation is. Hem!' Philip gave a deep sigh. 'No; the only thing to be done at St. Mildred's
is to walk across the moors to Stylehurst. It is a strange thing to leave that tumult of gossip,
and novelty, and hardness, and to enter on that quiet autumnal old world, with the yellow leaves
floating silently down, just as they used to do, and the atmosphere of stillness round the
green churchyard.'

'Gossip!' repeated Laura.' Surely not with Margaret?'

'Literary, scientific gossip is worse than gossip in a primary sense, without pretension.'

'I am glad you had Stylehurst to go to. How was the old sexton's wife?'

'Very well; trotting about on her pattens as merrily as ever.'

'Did you go into the garden?'

'Yes; Fanny's ivy has entirely covered the south wall, and the acacia is so tall and spreading,
that I longed to have the pruning of it. Old Will keeps everything in its former state.'

They talked on of the old home, till the stern bitter look of regret and censure had faded
from his brow, and given way to a softened melancholy expression.

CHAPTER 4

     A fig for all dactyls, a fig for all spondees,
     A fig for all dunces and dominie grandees.
                                         --SCOTT

'How glad I am!' exclaimed Guy, entering the drawing-room.

'Wherefore?' inquired Charles.

'I thought I was too late, and I am very glad to find no one arrived, and Mr. and Mrs. Edmonstone
not come down.'

'But where have you been?'

'I lost my way on the top of the down; I fancied some one told me there was a view of the sea
to be had there.'

'And can't you exist without a view of the sea?'

Guy laughed. 'Everything looks so dull--it is as if the view was dead or imprisoned--walled
up by wood and hill, and wanting that living ripple, heaving and struggling.'

'And your fine rocks?' said Laura.

'I wish you could see the Shag stone,--a great island mass, sloping on one side, precipitous
on the other, with the spray dashing on it. If you see it from ever so far off, there is still
that white foam coming and going--a glancing speck, like the light in an eye.'

'Hark! a carriage.'

'The young man and the young man's companion,' said Charles.

'How can you?' said Laura. 'What would any one suppose Mr. Thorndale to be?'

'Not Philip's valet,' said Charles, 'if it is true that no man is a hero to his "valley-de-sham";
whereas, what is not Philip to the Honourable James Thorndale?'

'Philip, Alexander, and Bucephalus into the bargain,' suggested Amy, in her demure, frightened
whisper, sending all but Laura into a fit of laughter, the harder to check because the steps
of the parties concerned were heard approaching.

Mr. Thorndale was a quiet individual, one of those of whom there is least to be said, so complete
a gentleman that it would have been an insult, to call him gentleman-like; agreeable and clever
rather than otherwise, good-looking, with a high-bred air about him, so that it always seemed
strange that he did not make more impression.

A ring at the front-door almost immediately followed their arrival.

'Encore?' asked Philip, looking at Laura with a sort of displeased surprise.

'Unfortunately, yes,' said Laura, drawing aside.

'One of my uncle's family parties,' said Philip. 'I wish I had not brought Thorndale. Laura,
what is to be done to prevent the tittering that always takes place when Amy and those Harpers
are together?'

'Some game?' said Laura. He signed approval; but she had time to say no more, for her father
and mother came down, and some more guests entered.

It was just such a party that continually grew up at Hollywell, for Mr. Edmonstone was so fond
of inviting, that his wife never knew in the morning how many would assemble at her table in
the evening. But she was used to it, and too good a manager even to be called so. She liked
to see her husband enjoy himself in his good-natured, open-hearted way. The change was good
for Charles, and thus it did very well, and there were few houses in the neighbourhood more
popular than Hollywell.

The guests this evening were Maurice de Courcy, a wild young Irishman, all noise and nonsense,
a great favourite with his cousin, Mr. Edmonstone; two Miss Harpers, daughters of the late
clergyman, good-natured, second-rate girls; Dr. Mayerne, Charles's kind old physician, the
friend and much-loved counsellor at Hollywell, and the present vicar, Mr. Ross with his daughter
Mary.

Mary Ross was the greatest friend that the Miss Edmonstones possessed, though, she being five-and-twenty,
they had not arrived at perceiving that they were on the equal terms of youngladyhood.

She had lost her mother early, and had owed a great deal to the kindness of Mrs. Edmonstone,
as she grew up among her numerous elder brothers. She had no girlhood; she was a boy till fourteen,
and then a woman, and she was scarcely altered since the epoch of that transition, the same
in likings, tastes, and duties. 'Papa' was all the world to her, and pleasing him had much
the same meaning now as then; her brothers were like playfellows; her delights were still a
lesson in Greek from papa, a school-children's feast, a game at play, a new book. It was only
a pity other people did not stand still too. 'Papa,' indeed, had never grown sensibly older
since the year of her mother's death: but her brothers were whiskered men, with all the cares
of the world, and no holidays; the school-girls went out to service, and were as a last year's
brood to an old hen; the very children she had fondled were young ladies, as old, to all intents
and purposes, as herself, and here were even Laura and Amy Edmonstone fallen into that bad
habit of growing up! though little Amy had still much of the kitten in her composition, and
could play as well as Charlotte or Mary herself, when they had the garden to themselves.

Mary took great pains to amuse Charles, always walking to see him in the worst weather, when
she thought other visitors likely to fall, and chatting with him as if she was the idlest person
in the world, though the quantity she did at home and in the parish would be too amazing to
be recorded. Spirited and decided, without superfluous fears and fineries, she had a firm,
robust figure, and a rosy, good-natured face, with a manner that, though perfectly feminine,
had in it an air of strength and determination.

Hollywell was a hamlet, two miles from the parish church of East-hill, and Mary had thus seen
very little of the Edmonstone's guest, having only been introduced to him after church on Sunday.
The pleasure on which Charles chiefly reckoned for that evening was the talking him over with
her when the ladies came in from the dining-room. The Miss Harpers, with his sisters, gathered
round the piano, and Mrs. Edmonstone sat at Charles's feet, while Mary knitted and talked.

'So you get on well with him?'

'He is one of those people who are never in the way, and yet you never can forgot their presence,'
said Mrs. Edmonstone.

'His manners are quite the pink of courtesy,' said Mary.

'Like his grandfather's,' said Mrs. Edmonstone; 'that old-school deference and attention is
very chivalrous, and sits prettily and quaintly on his high spirits and animation; I hope it
will not wear off.'

'A vain hope,' said Charles. 'At present he is like that German myth, Kaspar Hauser, who lived
till twenty in a cellar. It is lucky for mamma that, in his green state, he is courtly instead
of bearish.'

'Lucky for you, too, Charlie; he spoils you finely.'

'He has the rare perfection of letting me know my own mind. I never knew what it was to have
my own way before.'

'Is that your complaint, Charlie? What next?' said Mary.

'So you think I have my way, do you, Mary? That is all envy, you see, and very much misplaced.
Could you guess what a conflict it is every time I am helped up that mountain of a staircase,
or the slope of my sofa is altered? Last time Philip stayed here, every step cost an argument,
till at last, through sheer exhaustion, I left myself a dead weight on his hands, to be carried
up by main strength. And after all, he is such a great, strong fellow, that I am afraid he
did not mind it; so next time I crutched myself down alone, and I hope that did provoke him.'

'Sir Guy is so kind that I am ashamed,' said Mrs. Edmonstone. 'It seems as if we had brought
him for the sole purpose of waiting on Charles.'

'Half his heart is in his horse,' said Charles. 'Never had man such delight in the "brute creation."'

'They have been his chief playfellows,' said Mrs. Edmonstone. 'The chief of his time was spent
in wandering in the woods or on the beach, watching them and their ways.'

