    "Mauther, a foolish young girl(not used)."--Ben Jonson.

Skinner is, I believe, wrong in assigning the r termination to the Danish word. Such a termination
of the word maid is not to be found in any of the Teutonic dialects. The diphthong sound and
the th appear frequently; as,

  1. Moeso-Gothic: Magath or Magaths; Mawi,
      dim. Mawilo.
  2. Anglo-Saxon: Maeth, Maegth, dim. Meowla.
  3. Old-German: Maget.
  4. Swedish: Moe.
  5. Norse: Moei.

I therefore suppose the r termination in mauther to be a mere corruption, like that pointed
out by Skinner in the Lincoln Folk-speech: or is it possible that it may have arisen from a
contusion of the words maid and mother in Roman Catholic times? In Holland the Virgin Mary
was called Moeder Maagd,--a phrase which may possibly have crossed over to the East Anglian
coast, and occasioned the subsequent confusion.

B.H.K.

P.S. Do the words modde, moddeken, quoted by Skinner, exist? and, if so, are they Dutch or
Flemish? I have no means of verifying them at hand.

    [On referring to Kilian's Dictionarium Teutonico-Latin-Gallicum (ed.
    1642), we find, "MODDE, MODDEKEN, Pupa, Poupée."]

Cheshire Cat (Vol. ii., p. 377.).--A correspondent, T.E.L.P.B.T., asks the explanations of
the phrase, "grinning like a Cheshire cat." Some years since Cheshire cheeses were sold in
this town moulded into the shape of a cat, bristles being inserted to represent the whiskers.
This may possibly have originated the saying.

T.D.

Bath.

"Thompson of Esholt" (Vol. ii., p. 268.).--In an old pedigree of the Calverley family, I find
it stated that Henry Thompson of Esholt (whose only daughter Frances William Calverley of Calverley
married, and by her acquired that property) was great-grandson to Henry Thompson,

    "One of the king's gentlemen-at-arms at the siege of Boulogne (temp. H.
    7.), where he notably signalised himself, and for his service was
    rewarded with the Maison Dieu at Dover, by gift of the king;
    afterwards, in the reign of Edward VI., exchanged it for the manor and
    rectory of Bromfield in Cumberland, and the site of the late
    dissolved nunnery of Esholt."

Further particulars regarding the above grant of Bromefield, and a pedigree of the Thompsons,
are published in Archæologia Oeliana, vol. ii. (1832), p. 171.

W.C. TREVELYAN.

Wallington.

Minar's Book of Antiquities (Vol. i., p. 277.; ii. p. 344.).--I am much obliged to T.J. for
his endeavours to help me to Minar's Book of Antiquities. But there still remains a chasm too
wide for me to jump; inasmuch as Christopher Meiners published his treatise De Vero Deo in
1780, and Cardinal Cusa, who refers to Minar, died in 1464, being more than 300 years before.

A.N.

Croziers and Pastoral Staves (Vol. ii., pp. 248, 313.).--The opinion expressed by the REV.
MR. WALCOT (in your No. 50.), that by the word crozier is to be understood the crossed staff
belonging only to archbishops and legates, while the staff with a crook at its end is to be
called the pastoral staff, cannot, I think, be considered satisfactory, for the following,
among other reasons.

Crozier is generally (I should formerly have said universally) understood to mean the staff
with a crook, the so well-known "ensign of bishops."

In the instances mentioned by MR. WALCOT, croziers are repeatedly spoken of as having been
borne at the funerals of bishops, while the crosses borne before Wolsey are called crosses,
and not croziers.

The word crozier seems to be derived from the mediæval Latin word crocia. This is explained
by Ducange: "Pedum, baculus pastoralis, episcopalis." Crocia seems to be derived from, or closely
connected with, "crocha, uncinus, lamus," and "crochum, uncus quo arcubalistæ tenduntur" (Ducange).
Hence it appears that crozier does not refer to a cross but to a crook.

In such ancient authorities as I have had the opportunity of referring to at the moment, as
brasses, incised slabs, &c., bishops and archbishops are alike represented with the crooked
staff; a cross is of more rare occurrence, and at the moment only two instances occur to me,
one in the fine brass of Frederic, son of Casimir, king of Poland, and a cardinal, which is
in the cathedral of Cracow, and in which he is represented holding a crozier, while crosses
are figured on the sides under the cardinal's hat. The other is in the curious brass of Lambert,
bishop of Bamberg, in the cathedral of that city: in this the bishop holds a cross in his right
and a crozier in his left hand.

The statement that the crook of the bishop's staff was bent outwards, and that of the abbot's
inward, is one which is often made in books; I should, however, be very glad to learn whether
any difference has been observed to exist either in mediæval representations of croziers on
seals, accompanying, effigies, or in paintings, or in the existing examples. So far as I have
seen, the crook, in all except a few early instances, is bent in the same manner, i.e. inwards.

N.

Socinian Boast (Vol. ii., p. 375.).--The following lines "De Ruinâ Babylonis" occur in the
works of a Socinian writer, one Samuelis Przipcovius, who died in 1670, and evidently have
reference to those quoted by Dr. Pusey:-- {413}

  "Quid per Luterum, Calvinum, perque Socinum,
    Funditus eversam jam Babylona putas?
  Perstat adhuc Babylon, et toto regnat in orbe
    Sub vario primum nomine robur habens.
  Ostentat muros, jactat sublimia tecta
    De fundamento quis metus esse potest?
  Ni Deus hanc igitur molem disjecerit ipse
    Humano nunquam Marte vel arte ruet."

Przipcovius was a Polish knight, and cotempory the author of Hudibras. In a tract entitled
Religio Vindicata a Calumniis Atheismi, he thus alludes to the spiritual Quixotism which induced
Butler to "crack the satiric thong:"

    "Sæpe audivi quod in Angliâ (quæ regio sicut in multis aliis rebus,
    sic præcipue in religionibus totius mundi compendium est) de ejusmodi
    fanaticis perhibetur, quod ita sui suarumque irrationabilium opinionum
    sint amantes, ut audeant propter eas divinam Providentiam angustis
    Ecclesiarum suarum (quæ ex angustis cujuslibet Penatibus constant)
    terminis circumscribere.... Et quemadmodum omnes isti miseri aperte
    delirant, præcipue ii quos zeli æstus eousque deducit, ut tanquam
    bacchantes aut cerriti per plateas, domos, templa, absque ullo ordine
    et respectu cursitantes concionentur, et interdum anseres, equos, vel
    oves (cujus rei ibi satis frequentia exempla occurrunt) dum eis
    homines aures præbere nolunt, ad suas opiniones convertere tentent."

R. PRICE.

Cheam.

MSS. of Locke (Vol. i., pp. 401. 462.).--In reply to a question in "NOTES AND QUERIES," I may
state, that the address of the son of the late Dr. Hancock, is George H., Park Grove, Birkenhead;
and he will furnish information relative to the MSS. of Locke.

AN INTENDED READER.

Sir William Grant (Vol. ii., p. 397.).--Your correspondent R. says that "Sir William Grant"
was one of the few Scotchmen who had freed himself from the peculiarities of the speech of
his country. Frank Horner is another." If R. means to include the Scottish accent, he is mistaken
as to Sir William Grant, who retained a strong Scottish burr. If he means only correctness
of diction, then I should say the number was not few. Mackintosh's and Jeffery's English was,
I think, quite as pure as Horner's; and Lord Brougham, with much idiosyncrasy, had no Scotch
peculiarities, at least--me judice--infinitely less than Sir William Grant. I could name twenty
members of the present houses of parliament in whom I have never detected any "Scotch peculiarity."

C.

Tristan d'Acunha (Vol. ii., p. 358.).--The island is noticed, but briefly, in p. 54. of the
first volume of Perouse's Voyage round the World, Lond. 1799. It is there stated that a tolerably
minute account of it is contained in Le Neptune Oriental, by D'Apres (or Apres de Manvilette).
This work was published in Paris, 1775, in two volumes, large folio.

C.I.R.

Arabic Numerals (Vol.ii., pp. 27. 61. 339.).-- In a work in Arabic, by Ahmad ben Abubekr bin
Wahshih, on Ancient Alphabets, published in the original, and accompanied with an English translation,
by Von Hammer, your correspondent on the subject of Arabic numerals will find that these numerals
were not invented as arbitrary signs, and borrowed for various alphabets; but that they are
actually taken from an Indian alphabet of nine characters, the remaining letters being made
up at each decimal by repeating the nine characters, with one or two dots. The English Preface
states that this alphabet is still in use in India, not merely as a representative of numbers,
but of letters of native language. The book is a neat quarto, printed in London in 1806; and
the alphabet occurs in page 7. of the Arabic original.

E.C.H.

Athenæum.

Luther's Hymns (Vol. ii., p. 327.).--If F.Q. will turn to Mr. Palmer's Origines Liturgicæ,
vol. ii. p. 238. 4th edit., he will find that the sentence in the Burial Service, "In the midst
of life we are in death," &c., is taken from the Salisbury Breviary Psalter. The Salisbury
Use was drawn up by Bishop Osmund in the eleventh century.

N.E.R. (a Subscriber.)

Bolton's Ace.--What is the meaning of "Bolton's Ace," in the following passage in the address
to the reader prefixed to Henry Hutton's Follies Anatomie, 8vo. Lond. 1618? It is passed over
by DR. RIMBAULT in his reprint of the work for the Percy Society in 1842:

  "Could ye attacke this felon in's disgrace,
  I would not bate an inch (not Bolton's ace)
  To baite, deride, nay, ride this silly asse."

J. CT.

    ["Bate me an ace quoth Bolton" is an old proverb of unknown origin.
    Ray tells us that a Collection of Proverbs having been presented to
    Queen Elizabeth, with an assurance that it contained all the proverbs
    in the English language. "Bate me an ace, quoth Bolton," said the
    queen, implying that the assertion was too strong; and, in fact, that
    every proverb was not in the collection. See Nares' Glossary, who
    quotes the following epigram by H.P., to show the collection referred
    to

        "Secundæ Cogitutiones meliores.

  "A pamphlet was of proverbs penned by Polton,
    Wherein he thought all sorts included were;
  Untill one told him Bate m' an ace quoth Bolton,
    'Indeed,' said he, 'that proverb is not there.'"]

Hopkins the Witchfinder (Vol. ii., p. 392.).--If the inquiry of CLERICUS relates to Mathew
Hopkins the witchfinder general, my friend W.S. Fitch of Ipswich has some manuscript account
of his residence in that town, as a lawyer of but little {414} note, and his removal to Manningtree,
in Essex; but whether it gives any further particulars of him I am unable to state, as I have
not seen the manuscript.

J. CLARKE.

J.V.R.W.

Ale-draper (Vol. ii., p.310.).--A common designation for an ale-house keeper in the sixteenth
century. Henry Chettle, in his very curious little publication, Kind-Harts Dreame, 1592 (edited
for the Percy Society by your humble servant), has the following passage:

    "I came up to London, and fall to be some tapster, hostler, or
    chamberlaine in an inn. Well, I get mee a wife; with her a little
    money; when we are married, seeke a house we must; no other occupation
    have I but to be an ale-draper." (P. 37. of reprint.)

Again, in the same tract, the author speaks of "two milch maydens that had set up a shoppe
of "ale-drapery."

In the Discoverie of the Knights of the Poste, 1597, is another notice of the same occupation:

    "So that now hee hath left brokery, and is become a draper. A draper,
    quoth Freeman, what draper--of woollin or linnen? No, qd. he, an
    ale-draper, wherein he hath more skil then in the other."

Probably these instances of the use of the term may be sufficient for your correspondent.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

P.S. The above was written before J.S.W.'s note appeared (Vol. ii., p. 360.), which does not
carry the use of this term further back than Bailey's Dictionary.

George Herbert (Vol. ii., p. 103.) was buried under the communion table at Bemerton, but there
is no monument to his memory. The adornment of his little church would be one of the most fitting
offerings to his memory. It is painful to contrast the whitewash and unpainted deal of the
house of God with the rich furniture and hangings of the adjoining rectory. In the garden of
the latter is preserved a medlar-tree, planted by "the sweet singer of the temple."

J.W.H.

Notaries Public (Vol. ii., p. 393.).--Why does your correspondent MANLEIUS think this form
of expression "putting the cart before the horse?" Public notary (though that phrase is sometimes
erroneously used) is not so exact as "notary public;" for a notary is not, as the first form
would imply, a public officer appointed by the public to perform public services, but an individual
agent through whose ministry private acts or instruments become publici juris. The same form,
and for analogous reasons, prevails in several other legal and technical titles or phrases,
as Attorney-General, Solicitor-General, Accountant-General, Receiver-General, Surveyor-General;
Advocate Fiscal; Theatre Royal, Chapel Royal; Gazette Extraordinary; and many other phrases
in which it is evident that the adjective has a special and restricted meaning.

C.

Tobacconists (Vol. ii, p. 393.).--There was, in the old house of commons, a room called the
smoking-room, where members tired of the debate used to retire to smoke, and in later years
to drink tea or write letters. These, no doubt, were meant by the Tobacconists, members within
call, though not actually within the house.

C.

Vineyards (Vol. ii., p. 392.).--In answer to CLERICUS, I beg to say that there is a piece of
land called the Vineyards situated in the warm and sheltered valley of Claverton, about two
miles from Bath: it formerly belonged to the Abbey of Bath.

There is also in the suburbs, on the north side of the city of Bath, a street called the Vineyards;
but I do not know that this ever belonged to the Abbey.

G. FALKNER.

Devizes.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

Those who know Mr. Craik's happy tact for seizing on the more striking points of a character
or an incident, his acquaintance with our national history and biography, his love of research,
and perseverance in following up a clue, were prepared to expect both instruction and amusement
from his Romance of the Peerage. Nor were they doomed to disappointment. Each succeeding volume
has added to the interest of the work and there can be little doubt, that the favour with which
the first three volumes have been received by the reading world, will be extended to the one
now published, and which concludes the first series, or main division of Mr. Craik's projected
work.

Our space will permit us to do little more than specify its principal contents; but when we
state that in the present volume Mr. Craik treats of the great Earl of Cork and the Boyles;
of the founders of the Fermor, Bouverie, Osborne, and Bamfylde families; that he gives us with
great completeness the history of Anne Clifford, the most remarkable woman of her time; that
he furnishes pleasant gossipping pictures of the rise of the families of Fox, Phips, and Petty;
the history of the celebrated claim of the Trunkmaker to the honours of the Percies,--of the
story of the heiress of the Percies who married Tom Thynn of Longleat Hall; and lastly, that
of Ann of Buccleugh, {415} the widow of the unfortunate Monmouth, we shall have done more than
enough to make our readers wish to share the pleasure we have derived from turning over Mr.
Craik's amusing pages.

Messrs. Sotheby and Wilkinson will sell on Monday next, and two following days, a valuable
collection of books, chiefly the property of a gentleman deceased, among which we may specify
la Vie Saint Germain L'Auxerrois (lettres gothèques), printed on vellum, and quite unique;
no other copy even on paper being known.

We have received the following Catalogues:-- Williams and Norgate's (14. Henrietta Street,
Covent Garden) German Book Circular, a Quarterly List of New Publications, No. 26.; John Russell
Smith's (4. Old Compton Street, Soho) Catalogue No. 1. for 1851 of an extensive Collection
of Choice, Useful, and Curious Books in most Classes of Literature, English and Foreign.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

BACON'S ADVANCEMENT OF LEARNING, interpreted by WATS,   Oxford, 1621, 1640, folio.

STUART'S ATHENS. First Edition. Vols. IV. and V.

SUPPLEMENT TO BERRY'S HERALDRY.

SPECIMEN HISTORIÆ ARABUM, by POCOCK.

LA ROQUE, VOYAGE DANS LA PALESTINE.

ABULFARAQ HIST. DYNAST.

G.W.'s Query was in type before we received his unbecoming letter,--the terms of which both
forbid our asking the name of the writer, or giving him that satisfactory explanation which
we could furnish as to the delay in the insertion of his communication. As the first letter
of the kind we have ever received, we should certainly have printed it, but for our regard
for personal friends who belong to the same body as G.W., and whose names he can have no difficulty
in discovering in the list of our distinguished contributors.

We are compelled by want of space to omit many NOTES, QUERIES, REPLIES, and articles of FOLK-LORE.

Volume the First of "NOTES AND QUERIES," with very copious Index, price 9s. 6d. bound in cloth,
may still be had by order of all Booksellers.

The Monthly Part for October, being the Fifth of Vol. II., is also now ready, price 1s. 3d.

    Errata--P. 391. col. 1. line 46, for "veriis circumdant" read
    "variis circumstant;" l. 47., for "antesolat" read "antevolat;"
    and l. 48., for "nec" read "ne."

       *       *       *       *       *

PIETAS METRICA: or, Nature Suggestive of God and Godliness. By the Brothers Theophilus and
Theophylact. Fcap. 8vo. cloth. Price 3s. 6d.

"They possess great sweetness combined with deep devotional feeling."--John Bull.

London: J. MASTERS, Aldersgate and New Bond Streets.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, Part X., price 9s. plain; 10s. 6d. tinted; proofs, large paper, 12s.

THE CHURCHES of the MIDDLE AGES: or, Select Specimens of Early and Middle Pointed Structures,
with a few of the purest Late Pointed Examples; Illustrated by Geometric and Perspective Drawings.

"We can hardly conceive anything more perfect. We heartily recommend this series to all who
are able to patronise it." --Ecclesiologist.

London: GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, New Edition, Two Vols. fcp. 8vo., price 10s. clothe; or Two Vols. in One, 17s.
morocco. 14s. calf antique.

Published in Fortnightly Parts, price 1s. each, And Monthly Sections, price 2s. 6d. each.

Part III., containing "Love's Labour's Lost," is published this day, Saturday.

The Monthly Section is published on the 1st of every Month. The Monthly Part, Ninepence, on
the 1st of the Month.

       *       *       *       *       *

KNIGHT'S CYCLOPÆDIA OF LONDON.

Number III., price Twopence, is published this day, Saturday. The Monthly Part, Ninepence,
on the 1st of the Month

LONDON: CHARLES KNIGHT, 90. FLEET STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRITISH ALMANAC AND COMPANION.

For 1851, November 21st instant. 18mo. 1850.