So far did his unparalleled madness go; but the noble lion, more courteous than arrogant, not
troubling himself about silly bravado, after having looked all round, as has been said, turned
about and presented his hind-quarters to Don Quixote, and very coolly and tranquilly lay down
again in the cage. Seeing this, Don Quixote ordered the keeper to take a stick to him and provoke
him to make him come out.

"That I won't," said the keeper, "for if I anger him, the first he'll tear to pieces will be
myself. Be satisfied, sir knight, with what you have done, which leaves nothing more to be
said on the score of courage, and do not seek to tempt fortune a second time. The lion has
the door open; he is free to come out or not to come out; but as he has not come out so far,
he will not come out to-day. The greatness of your worship's courage has been fully manifested
already; no brave champion, so it strikes me, is bound to do more than challenge his enemy
and wait for him on the field; if his adversary does not come, on him lies the disgrace, and
he who waits for him carries off the crown of victory."

"That is true," said Don Quixote; "close the door, my friend, and let me have, in the best
form thou canst, what thou hast seen me do, by way of certificate; to wit, that thou didst
open for the lion, that I waited for him, that he did not come out, that I still waited for
him, and that still he did not come out, and lay down again. I am not bound to do more; enchantments
avaunt, and God uphold the right, the truth, and true chivalry! Close the door as I bade thee,
while I make signals to the fugitives that have left us, that they may learn this exploit from
my lips."

The keeper obeyed, and Don Quixote, fixing on the point of his lance the cloth he had wiped
his face with after the deluge of curds, proceeded to recall the others, who still continued
to fly, looking back at every step, all in a body, the gentleman bringing up the rear. Sancho,
however, happening to observe the signal of the white cloth, exclaimed, "May I die, if my master
has not overcome the wild beasts, for he is calling to us."

They all stopped, and perceived that it was Don Quixote who was making signals, and shaking
off their fears to some extent, they approached slowly until they were near enough to hear
distinctly Don Quixote's voice calling to them. They returned at length to the cart, and as
they came up, Don Quixote said to the carter, "Put your mules to once more, brother, and continue
your journey; and do thou, Sancho, give him two gold crowns for himself and the keeper, to
compensate for the delay they have incurred through me."

"That will I give with all my heart," said Sancho; "but what has become of the lions? Are they
dead or alive?"

The keeper, then described the end of the contest, exalting to the best of his power and ability
the valor of Don Quixote, at the sight of whom the lion quailed, and would not and dared not
come out of the cage, although he had held the door open ever so long; and showing how, in
consequence of his having represented to the knight that it was tempting God to provoke the
lion in order to force him out, which he wished to have done, he very reluctantly, and altogether
against his will, had allowed the door to be closed.

"What dost thou think of this, Sancho?" said Don Quixote. "Are there any enchantments that
can prevail against true valor? The enchanters may be able to rob me of good fortune, but of
fortitude and courage they can not."

Sancho paid the crowns, the carter put to, the keeper kissed Don Quixote's hands for the bounty
bestowed upon him, and promised to give an account of the valiant exploit to the King himself,
as soon as he saw him at court.

"Then," said Don Quixote, "if his Majesty should happen to ask who performed it, you must say
The Knight of the Lions; for it is my desire that into this the name I have hitherto borne
of Knight of the Rueful Countenance be from this time forward changed, altered, transformed,
and turned."

THE ADVENTURE OF THE ENCHANTED BARK

Upon proceeding with their journey, they discovered a small boat, without oars or any other
gear, that lay at the water's edge tied to the stem of a tree growing on the bank. Don Quixote
looked all around, and seeing nobody, at once, without more ado, dismounted from Rocinante
and bade Sancho get down from Dapple and tie both beasts securely to the trunk of a poplar
or willow that stood there. Sancho asked him the reason of this sudden dismounting and tying.
Don Quixote made answer, "Thou must know, Sancho, that this bark here is plainly, and without
the possibility of any alternative, calling and inviting me to enter it, and in it go to give
aid to some knight or other person of distinction in need of it, who is no doubt in some sore
strait; for this is the way of the books of chivalry and of the enchanters who figure and speak
in them. When a knight is involved in some difficulty from which he cannot be delivered save
by the hand of another knight, though they may be at a distance of two or three thousand leagues
or more one from the other, they either take him up on a cloud, or they provide a bark for
him to get into, and in less than the twinkling of an eye they carry him where they will and
where his help is required; and so, Sancho, this bark is placed here for the same purpose;
this is as true as that it is now day, and ere this one passes tie Dapple and Rocinante together,
and then in God's hand be it to guide us; for I would not hold back from embarking, though
bare-footed friars were to beg me."

"As that's the case," said Sancho, "and your worship chooses to give in to these--I don't know
if I may call them absurdities--at every turn, there's nothing for it but to obey and bow the
head, bearing in mind the proverb, 'Do as thy master bids thee, and sit down to table with
him;' but for all that, for the sake of easing my conscience, I want to warn your worship that
it is my opinion this bark is no enchanted one, but belongs to some of the fishermen of the
river, for they catch the best shad in the world here."

As Sancho said this, he tied the beasts, leaving them to the care and protection of the enchanters
with sorrow enough in his heart. Don Quixote bade him not be uneasy about deserting the animals,
for he who would carry themselves over such longinquous roads and regions would take care to
feed them.

"I don't understand that logiquous," said Sancho, "nor have I ever heard the word all the days
of my life."

"Longinquous," replied Don Quixote, "means far off; but it is no wonder thou dost not understand
it, for thou art not bound to know Latin, like some who pretend to know it and don't."

"Now they are tied," said Sancho; "what are we to do next?"

"What?" said Don Quixote, "cross ourselves and weigh anchor; I mean, embark and cut the moorings
by which the bark is held;" and jumping into it, followed by Sancho, he cut the rope, and the
bark began to drift away slowly from the bank. But when Sancho saw himself somewhere about
two yards out in the river, he began to tremble and give himself up for lost; but nothing distressed
him more than hearing Dapple bray and seeing Rocinante struggling to get loose, and said he
to his master, "Dapple is braying in grief at our leaving him, and Rocinante is trying to escape
and plunge in after us. O dear friends, peace be with you, and may this madness that is taking
us away from you, turned into sober sense, bring us back to you."

And with this he fell weeping so bitterly, that Don Quixote said to him, sharply and angrily,
"What art thou afraid of, cowardly creature? What art thou weeping at, heart of butter-paste?
Who pursues or molests thee, thou soul of a tame mouse? What dost thou want, unsatisfied in
the very heart of abundance? Art thou, perchance, tramping barefoot over the mountains, instead
of being seated on a bench like an archduke on the tranquil stream of this pleasant river,
from which in a short space we shall come out upon the broad sea? But we must have already
emerged and gone seven hundred or eight hundred leagues; and if I had here an astrolabe to
take the altitude of the pole, I could tell thee how many we have traveled, though either I
know little, or we have already crossed or shall shortly cross the equinoctial line which parts
the two opposite poles midway."

"And when we come to that line your worship speaks of," said Sancho, "how far shall we have gone?"

"Very far," said Don Quixote, "for of the three hundred and sixty degrees that this terraqueous
globe contains, as computed by Ptolemy, the greatest cosmographer known, we shall have traveled
one-half when we come to the line I spoke of."

"By God," said Sancho, "your worship gives me a nice authority for what you say, putrid Dolly
something transmogrified, or whatever it is."

Don Quixote laughed at the interpretation Sancho put upon "computed," and the name of the cosmographer
Ptolemy.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I can see with my own eyes," said Sancho, "that we have not moved five yards away from the
bank, or shifted two yards from where the animals stand, for there are Rocinante and Dapple
in the very same place where we left them; and watching a point, as I do now, I swear by all
that's good, we are not stirring or moving at the pace of an ant."

They now came in sight of some large water mills that stood in the middle of the river,[462-1]
and the instant Don Quixote saw them he cried out to Sancho, "Seest thou there, my friend?
there stands the city, castle, or fortress, where there is, no doubt, some knight in durance,
or ill-used queen, or infanta, or princess, in aid of whom I am brought hither."

"What the devil city, fortress, or castle is your worship talking about, señor?" said Sancho;
"don't you see that those are mills that stand in the river to grind corn?"

"Hold thy peace, Sancho," said Don Quixote; "though they look like mills they are not so; I
have already told thee that enchantments transform things and change their proper shapes; I
do not mean to say they really change them from one form into another, but that it seems as
though they did, as experience proved in the transformation of Dulcinea, sole refuge of my hopes."

By this time, the boat, having reached the middle of the stream, began to move less slowly
than hitherto. The millers belonging to the mills, when they saw the boat coming down the river,
and on the point of being sucked in by the draught of the wheels, ran out in haste, several
of them, with long poles to stop it, and being all mealy, with faces and garments covered with
flour, they presented a sinister appearance. They raised loud shouts, crying, "Devils of men,
where are you going to? Are you mad? Do you want to drown yourselves, or dash yourselves to
pieces among these wheels?"

"Did I not tell thee, Sancho," said Don Quixote at this, "that we had reached the place where
I am to show what the might of my arm can do? See what ruffians and villains come out against
me; see what monsters oppose me; see what hideous countenances come to frighten us! You shall
soon see, scoundrels!" And then standing up in the boat he began in a loud voice to hurl threats
at the millers, exclaiming, "Ill-conditioned and worse-counselled rabble, restore to liberty
and freedom the person ye hold in durance in this your fortress or prison, high or low or of
whatever rank or quality he be, for I am Don Quixote of La Mancha, otherwise called the Knight
of the Lions, for whom, by the disposition of Heaven above, it is reserved to give a happy
issue to this adventure;" and so saying he drew his sword and began making passes in the air
at the millers, who, hearing but not understanding all this nonsense, strove to stop the boat,
which was now getting into the rushing channel of the wheels.

Sancho, in very real despair, fell upon his knees devoutly appealing to Heaven to deliver him
from such imminent peril; which it did by the activity and quickness of the millers, who, pushing
against the boat with their poles, stopped it, not, however, without upsetting it and throwing
Don Quixote and Sancho into the water; and lucky it was for Don Quixote that he could swim
like a goose, though the weight of his armor carried him twice to the bottom; and had it not
been for the millers, who plunged in and hoisted them both out, it would have been Troy town
with the pair of them. As soon as, more drenched than thirsty, they were landed, Sancho went
down on his knees and with clasped hands and eyes raised to heaven, prayed a long and fervent
prayer to God to deliver him evermore from the rash projects and attempts of his master.

The surprised fishermen, the owners of the boat, which the mill-wheels had knocked to pieces,
now came up, and seeing it smashed they proceeded to strip Sancho and to demand payment for
it from Don Quixote; but he with great calmness, just as if nothing had happened to him, told
the millers and fishermen that he would pay for the bark most cheerfully, on condition that
they delivered up to him, free and unhurt, the person or persons that were in durance in that
castle of theirs.

"What persons or what castle art thou talking of, madman?" said one of the millers; "art thou
for carrying off the people who come to grind corn in these mills?"

"That's enough," said Don Quixote to himself, "it would be preaching in the desert to attempt
by entreaties to induce this rabble to do any virtuous action. In this adventure two mighty
enchanters must have encountered one another, and one frustrates what the other attempts; one
provided a bark for me, and the other upset me; God help us, this world is all machinations
and schemes at cross purposes one with the other. I can do no more." And then turning towards
the mills he said aloud, "Friends, whoe'er ye be that are immured in that prison, forgive me
that, to my misfortune and yours, I cannot deliver you from your misery; this adventure is
doubtless reserved and destined for some other knight."

So saying he settled with the fishermen, and paid fifty reals for the boat, which Sancho handed
to them very much against the grain, saying, "With a couple more bark businesses like this
we shall have sunk our whole capital, which is none too large."

The fishermen and the millers stood staring in amazement at the two figures, so very different
to all appearance from ordinary men, and were wholly unable to make out the drift of the observations
and questions Don Quixote addressed to them; and coming to the conclusion that they were madmen,
they left them and betook themselves, the millers to their mills, and the fishermen to their huts.

Whereupon Don Quixote and Sancho Panza, like a pair of senseless animals themselves, returned
to the animals they had left, and thus ended the adventure of the enchanted bark.

THE ADVENTURE OF THE WOODEN HORSE

     NOTE.--Don Quixote and Sancho his squire, having encountered in a
     forest a certain duke and his duchess, had been invited to pass
     some time in the ducal palace. The duke and his friends, bent on
     amusement, persuaded Don Quixote that a vile enchanter, angered at
     some ladies, had for punishment caused heavy beards to grow on
     their faces. They even showed him the ladies, impersonated, of
     course, by men; and they persuaded him that the beards would be
     removed if he, with his squire, would take a long ride on a famous
     wooden horse, Clavileño.

And now night came, and with it the appointed time for the arrival of the famous horse Clavileño,
the non-appearance of which was already beginning to make Don Quixote uneasy, for it struck
him that, as Malambruno[467-1] was so long about sending it, either he himself was not the
knight for whom the adventure was reserved, or else Malambruno did not dare to meet him in
single combat. But lo! suddenly there came into the garden four wild-men all clad in green
ivy bearing on their shoulders a great wooden horse. They placed it on its feet on the ground,
and one of the wild-men said, "Let the knight who has heart for it mount this machine."

Here Sancho exclaimed, "I don't mount, for neither have I the heart nor am I a knight."

"And let the squire, if he has one," continued the wild-man, "take his seat on the croup, and
let him trust the valiant Malambruno; for by no sword save his, nor by the malice of any other,
shall he be assailed. It is but to turn this peg the horse has in his neck, and he will bear
them through the air to where Malambruno awaits them; but lest the vast elevation of their
course should make them giddy, their eyes must be covered until the horse neighs, which will
be the sign of their having completed their journey."

With these words, leaving Clavileño behind them, they retired with easy dignity the way they
came. As soon as the Distressed One[468-2] saw the horse, almost in tears she exclaimed to
Don Quixote, "Valiant knight, the promise of Malambruno has proved trustworthy; the horse has
come, our beards are growing, and by every hair in them we all of us implore thee to shave
and shear us, as it is only mounting him with thy squire and making a happy beginning with
your new journey."

"That I will, Señora Countess Trifaldi," said Don Quixote, "most gladly and with right good
will, without stopping to take a cushion or put on my spurs, so as not to lose time, such is
my desire to see you, señora, and all these duennas shaved clean."

"That I won't," said Sancho, "with good will or bad will or any way at all; and if this shaving
can't be done without my mounting on the croup, my master had better look out for another squire
to go with him, and these ladies for some other way of making their faces smooth; I'm no witch
to have a taste for traveling through the air. What would my islanders say when they heard
their governor was going strolling about on the winds?"[468-3]

"Friend Sancho," said the duke at this, "the island that I have promised you is not a moving
one, or one that will run away; it has roots so deeply buried in the bowels of the earth that
it will be no easy matter to pluck it up or shift it from where it is; you know as well as
I do that there is no sort of office of any importance that is not obtained by a bribe of some
kind, great or small; well, then, that which I look to receive for this government is that
you go with your master Don Quixote, and bring this memorable adventure to a conclusion; and
whether you return on Clavileño as quickly as his speed seems to promise, or adverse fortune
brings you back on foot traveling as a pilgrim from hostel to hostel and from inn to inn, you
will always find your island on your return where you left it, and your islanders with the
same eagerness they have always had to receive you as their governor, and my good will will
remain the same; doubt not the truth of this, Señor Sancho, for that would be grievously wronging
my disposition to serve you."

"Say no more, señor," said Sancho; "I am a poor squire and not equal to carrying so much courtesy;
let my master mount; bandage my eyes and commit me to God's care, and tell me if I may commend
myself to our Lord or call upon the angels to protect me when we go towering up there."

To this the Trifaldi[469-4] made answer, "Sancho, you may freely commend yourself to God or
whom you will; for Malambruno, though an enchanter, is a Christian, and works his enchantments
with great circumspection, taking very good care not to fall out with any one."

"Well then," said Sancho, "God and the most holy Trinity give me help!"

"Cover thine eyes, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "and mount; for one who sends for us from lands
so far distant cannot mean to deceive us for the sake of the paltry glory to be derived from
deceiving persons who trust in him; though all should turn out the contrary of what I hope,
no malice will be able to dim the glory of having undertaken this exploit."

"Let us be off, señor," said Sancho, "for I have taken the beards and tears of the ladies deeply
to heart, and I shan't eat a bite to relish it until I have seen them restored to their former
smoothness. Mount, your worship, and blindfold yourself, for if I am to go on the croup, it
is plain the rider in the saddle must mount first."

"That is true," said Don Quixote, and, taking a handkerchief out of his pocket, he begged the
Distressed One to bandage his eyes very carefully; but after having them bandaged he uncovered
them, saying, "If my memory does not deceive me, I have read in Virgil of the Palladium of
Troy, a wooden horse the Greeks offered to the goddess Pallas, which was big with armed knights,
who afterwards destroyed Troy; so it would be as well to see, first of all, what Clavileño
has in his stomach."

"There is no occasion," said the Distressed One; "I will be bail for him, and I know that Malambruno
has nothing tricky or treacherous about him; you may mount without any fear, Señor Don Quixote;
on my head be it if any harm befalls you."

Don Quixote thought that to say anything further with regard to his safety would be putting
his courage in an unfavorable light; and so, without more words, he mounted Clavileño, and
tried the peg, which turned easily; and as he had no stirrups and his legs hung down, he looked
like nothing so much as a figure in some Roman triumph painted or embroidered on a Flemish
tapestry.

Much against the grain, and very slowly, Sancho proceeded to mount, and, after settling himself
as well as he could on the croup, found it rather hard and not at all soft, and asked the duke
if it would be possible to oblige him with a pad of some kind, or a cushion; even if it were
off the couch of his lady the duchess, or the bed of one of the pages; as the haunches of that
horse were more like marble than wood. On this the Trifaldi observed that Clavileño would not
bear any kind of harness or trappings, and that his best plan would be to sit sideways like
a woman, as in that way he would not feel the hardness so much.

Sancho did so, and bidding them farewell, allowed his eyes to be bandaged, but immediately
afterwards uncovered them again, and looking tenderly and tearfully on those in the garden,
bade them help him in his present strait with plenty of Paternosters and Ave Marias, that God
might provide some one to say as many for them, whenever they found themselves in a similar
emergency.

At this Don Quixote exclaimed, "Art thou on the gallows, thief, or at thy last moment, to use
pitiful entreaties of that sort? Cover thine eyes, cover thine eyes, abject animal, and let
not thy fear escape thy lips, at least, in my presence."

"Let them blindfold me," said Sancho; "as you won't let me commend myself or be commended to
God, is it any wonder if I am afraid there is a legion of devils about here that will carry
us off?"

They were then blindfolded, and Don Quixote, finding himself settled to his satisfaction, felt
for the peg, and the instant he placed his fingers on it, all the duennas and all who stood
by lifted up their voices exclaiming, "God guide thee, valiant knight! God be with thee, intrepid
squire! Now, now ye go cleaving the air more swiftly than an arrow! Now ye begin to amaze and
astonish all who are gazing at you from the earth! Take care not to wobble about, valiant Sancho!
Mind thou fall not, for thy fall will be worse than that rash youth's who tried to steer the
chariot of his father the Sun!"[472-5]

As Sancho heard the voices, clinging tightly to his master and winding his arms round him,
he said, "Señor, how do they make out we are going up so high, if their voices reach us here
and they seem to be speaking quite close to us?"

"Don't mind that, Sancho," said Don Quixote; "for as affairs of this sort and flights like
this are out of the common course of things, you can see and hear as much as you like a thousand
leagues off; but don't squeeze me so tight or thou wilt upset me; and really I know not what
thou hast to be uneasy or frightened at, for I can safely swear I never mounted a smoother-going
steed all the days of my life; one would fancy we never stirred from one place. Banish fear,
my friend, for indeed everything is going as it ought, and we have the wind astern."

"That's true," said Sancho, "for such a strong wind comes against me on this side, that it
seems as if the people were blowing on me with a thousand pair of bellows;" which was the case;
they were puffing at him with a great pair of bellows; for the whole adventure was so well
planned by the duke, the duchess, and their majordomo, that nothing was omitted to make it
perfectly successful.

Don Quixote now, feeling the blast, said, "Beyond a doubt, Sancho, we must have already reached
the second region of the air, where the hail and snow are generated; the thunder, the lightning,
and the thunderbolts are engendered in the third region, and if we go on ascending at this
rate, we shall shortly plunge into the region of fire, and I know not how to regulate this
peg, so as not to mount up where we shall be burned."

And now they began to warm their faces, from a distance, with tow that could easily be set
on fire and extinguished again, fixed on the end of a cane.

On feeling the heat Sancho said, "May I die if we are not already in that fire place, or very
near it, for a good part of my beard has been singed, and I have a mind, señor, to uncover
and see whereabouts we are."

"Do nothing of the kind," said Don Quixote; "remember the true story of the licentiate Torralva,
that the devils carried flying through the air riding on a stick with his eyes shut; who in
twelve hours reached Rome and dismounted at Torre di Nona, which is a street of the city, and
saw the whole sack and storming and the death of Bourbon, and was back in Madrid the next morning,
where he gave an account of all he had seen; and he said, moreover, that as he was going through
the air, the devil bade him open his eyes, and he did so, and saw himself so near the body
of the moon, so it seemed to him, that he could have laid hold of it with his hand, and that
he did not dare to look at the earth lest he should be seized with giddiness. So that, Sancho,
it will not do for us to uncover ourselves, for he who has us in charge will be responsible
for us; and perhaps we are gaining an altitude and mounting up to enable us to descend at one
swoop on the Kingdom of Kandy, as the saker or falcon does on the heron, so as to seize it
however high it may soar; and though it seems to us not half an hour since we left the garden,
believe me we must have travelled a great distance."

The duke, the duchess, and all in the garden were listening to the conversation of the two
heroes, and were beyond measure amused by it; and now, desirous of putting a finishing touch
to this rare and well-contrived adventure, they applied a light to Clavileño's tail with some
tow, and the horse, being full of squibs and crackers, immediately blew up with a prodigious
noise, and brought Don Quixote and Sancho Panza to the ground half singed. By this time the
bearded band of duennas, the Trifaldi and all, had vanished from the garden, and those that
remained lay stretched on the ground as if in swoon. Don Quixote and Sancho got up rather shaken,
and looking about them, were filled with amazement at finding themselves in the same garden
from which they had started, and seeing such a number of people stretched on the ground; and
their astonishment was increased when at one side of the garden they perceived a tall lance
planted in the ground, and hanging from it by two cords of green silk, a smooth, white parchment
on which there was the following inscription in large gold letters: "The illustrious Don Quixote
of La Mancha has, by merely attempting it, finished and concluded the adventure of the Countess
Trifaldi, otherwise called the Distressed Duenna; Malambruno is now satisfied on every point,
the chins of the duennas are now smooth and clean, and when the squirely flagellation shall
have been completed, the white dove shall find herself delivered from the pestiferous hawks
that persecute her,[476-6] and in the arms of her beloved mate; for such is the decree of the
sage Merlin, arch-enchanter of enchanters."

As soon as Don Quixote had read the inscription on the parchment he perceived clearly that
it referred to the disenchantment of Dulcinea, and returning hearty thanks to Heaven that he
had, with so little danger, achieved so grand an exploit as to restore to their former complexion
the countenances of those venerable duennas, now no longer visible, he advanced towards the
duke and duchess, who had not yet come to themselves, and taking the duke by the hand he said,
"Be of good cheer, worthy sir, be of good cheer; it's nothing at all; the adventure is now
over and without any harm done, as the inscription fixed on this post shows plainly."

The duke came to himself slowly and like one recovering consciousness after a heavy sleep,
and the duchess and all who had fallen prostrate about the garden did the same, with such demonstrations
of wonder and amazement that they would have almost persuaded one that what they pretended
so adroitly in jest had happened to them in reality. The duke read the placard with half-shut
eyes, and then ran to embrace Don Quixote with open arms, declaring him to be the best knight
that had ever been seen in any age. Sancho kept looking about for the Distressed One, to see
what her face was like without the beard, and if she was as fair as her elegant person promised;
but they told him that, the instant Clavileño descended flaming through the air and came to
the ground, the whole band of duennas with the Trifaldi vanished, and that they were already
shaved and without a stump left.

The duchess asked Sancho how he had fared on that long journey, to which Sancho replied, "I
felt, señora, that we were flying through the region of fire, as my master told me, and I wanted
to uncover my eyes for a bit; but my master, when I asked leave to uncover myself, would not
let me; but as I have a little bit of curiosity about me, and a desire to know what is forbidden
and kept from me, quietly and without any one seeing me I drew aside the handkerchief covering
my eyes ever so little, close to my nose, and from underneath looked towards the earth, and
it seemed to me that it was altogether no bigger than a grain of mustard seed, and that the
men walking on it were little bigger than hazel nuts; so you may see how high we must have
got to them."

To this the duchess said, "Sancho, my friend, mind what you are saying; it seems you could
not have seen the earth, but only the men walking on it; it is plain that if the earth looked
to you like a grain of mustard seed, and each man like a hazel nut, one man alone would have
covered the whole earth."

"That is true," said Sancho, "but for all that I got a glimpse of a bit of one side of it,
and saw it all."

"Take care, Sancho," said the duchess; "with a bit of one side one does not see the whole of
what one looks at."

"I don't understand that way of looking at things," said Sancho; "I only know that your ladyship
will do well to bear in mind that as we were flying by enchantment, so I might have seen the
whole earth and all the men by enchantment, whatever way I looked; and if you won't believe
this, no more will you believe that, uncovering myself nearly to the eyebrows, I saw myself
so close to the sky that there was not a palm and a half between me and it; and by everything
that I can swear by, señora, it is mighty great! And it so happened we came by where the seven
she-goats[478-7] are, and by God and upon my soul, as in my youth I was a goatherd in my own
country, as soon as I saw them I felt a longing to be among them for a little, and if I had
not given way to it I think I'd have burst. So I come and take, and what do I do? without saying
anything to anybody, not even to my master, softly and quietly I got down from Clavileño and
amused myself with the goats--which are like violets, like flowers--for nigh three-quarters
of an hour; and Clavileño never stirred or moved from one spot."

"And while the good Sancho was amusing himself with the goats," said the duke, "how did Señor
Don Quixote amuse himself?"

To which Don Quixote replied, "As all these things and such like occurrences are out of the
ordinary course of nature, it is no wonder that Sancho says what he does; for my own part I
can only say that I did not uncover my eyes, either above or below, nor did I see sky or earth
or sea or shore. It is true I felt that I was passing through the region of the air, and even
that I touched that of fire; but that we passed farther I cannot believe; for the region of
fire being between the heaven of the moon and the last region of the air, we could not have
reached that heaven where the seven she-goats Sancho speaks of are without being burned; and
as we were not burned, either Sancho is lying or Sancho is dreaming."

"I am neither lying nor dreaming," said Sancho; "only ask me the tokens of those same goats,
and you'll see by that whether I'm telling the truth or not."

"Tell us them then, Sancho," said the duchess.

"Two of them," said Sancho, "are green, two blood-red, two blue, and one a mixture of all colors."

"An odd sort of goat, that," said the duke; "in this earthly region of ours we have no such
colors; I mean goats of such colors."

"That's very plain," said Sancho; "of course there must be a difference between the goats of
heaven and the goats of the earth."

"Tell me, Sancho," said the duke, "did you see any he-goat among those she-goats?"

"No señor," said Sancho; "but I have heard say that none ever passed the horns of the moon."

They did not care to ask him anything more about his journey, for they saw he was in the vein
to go rambling all over the heavens giving an account of everything that went on there, without
having ever stirred from the garden. Such, in short, was the end of the adventure of the Distressed
Duenna, which gave the duke and duchess laughing matter not only for the time being, but for
all their lives, and Sancho something to talk about for ages, if he lived so long.

THE STORY OF THE LASHES

     NOTE.--It had been prophesied, by a pretended enchanter, that the
     Lady Dulcinea del Toboso could be freed from the enchantment under
     which a wicked magician had placed her, if Sancho would of his own
     free will give himself three thousand three hundred lashes.

Sancho went along anything but cheerful, and finally he said to his master, "Surely, señor,
I'm the most unlucky doctor in the world; there's many a physician that, after killing the
sick man he had to cure, requires to be paid for his work, though it is only signing a bit
of a list of medicines, that the apothecary and not he makes up, and, there, his labor is over;
but with me, though to cure somebody else costs me drops of blood, smacks, pinches, pin-proddings,
and whippings, nobody gives me a farthing."

"Thou art right, Sancho, my friend," said Don Quixote, "and I can say for myself that if thou
wouldst have payment for the lashes on account of the disenchantment of Dulcinea, I would have
given it to thee freely ere this. I am not sure, however, whether payment will comport with
the cure, and I would not have the reward interfere with the medicine. Still, I think there
will be nothing lost by trying it; consider how much thou wouldst have, Sancho, and whip thyself
at once, and pay thyself down with thine own hand, as thou hast money of mine."

At this proposal Sancho opened his eyes and his ears a palm's breadth wide, and in his heart
very readily acquiesced in whipping himself, and said he to his master, "Very well then, señor,
I'll hold myself in readiness to gratify your worship's wishes if I'm to profit by it; for
the love of my wife and children forces me to seem grasping. Let your worship say how much
you will pay me for each lash I give myself."

"If, Sancho," replied Don Quixote, "I were to requite thee as the importance and nature of
the cure deserves, the treasures of Venice, the mines of Potosi, would be insufficient to pay
thee. See what thou hast of mine, and put a price on each lash."

"Of them," said Sancho, "there are three thousand three hundred and odd; of these I have given
myself five, the rest remain; let the five go for the odd ones, and let us take the three thousand
three hundred, which at a quarter real apiece (for I will not take less though the whole world
should bid) make three thousand three hundred quarter reals; the three thousand are one thousand
five hundred half reals, which make seven hundred and fifty reals; and the three hundred make
a hundred and fifty half reals, which come to seventy-five reals, which added to the seven
hundred and fifty make eight hundred and twenty-five reals in all. These I will stop out of
what I have belonging to your worship, and I'll return home rich and content, though well whipped."

"O blessed Sancho! O dear Sancho!" said Don Quixote; "how we shall be bound to serve thee,
Dulcinea and I, all the days of our lives that Heaven may grant us! If she returns to her lost
shape (and it cannot be but that she will) her misfortune will have been good fortune, and
my defeat a most happy triumph. But look here, Sancho; when wilt thou begin the scourging?
For if thou wilt make short work of it, I will give a hundred reals over and above."

"When?" said Sancho; "this night without fail. Let your worship order it so that we pass it
out of doors and in the open air, and I'll scarify myself."

Night, longed for by Don Quixote with the greatest anxiety in the world, came at last. They
made their way at length in among some pleasant trees that stood a little distance from the
road, and there vacating Rocinante's saddle and Dapple's pack-saddle, they stretched themselves
on the green grass and made their supper off Sancho's stores, and he, making a powerful and
flexible whip out of Dapple's halter and headstall, retreated about twenty paces from his master
among some beech trees. Don Quixote, seeing him march off with such resolution and spirit,
said to him, "Take care, my friend, not to cut thyself to pieces; allow the lashes to wait
for one another, and do not be in so great a hurry as to run thyself out of breath midway;
I mean, do not lay on so strenuously as to make thy life fail thee before thou hast reached
the desired number; and that thou mayest not lose by a card too much or too little, I will
station myself apart and count on my rosary here the lashes thou givest thyself. May heaven
help thee as thy good intention deserves."

"'Pledges don't distress a good paymaster,'" said Sancho; "I mean to lay on in such a way as
without killing myself to hurt myself, for in that, no doubt, lies the essence of this miracle."

He then stripped himself from the waist upwards, and snatching up the rope he began to lay
on and Don Quixote to count the lashes. He might have given himself six or eight when he began
to think the joke no trifle, and its price very low; and holding his hand for a moment, he
told his master that he cried off on the score of a blind bargain, for each of those lashes
ought to be paid for at the rate of half a real instead of a quarter.

"Go on, Sancho, my friend, and be not disheartened," said Don Quixote; "for I double the stakes
as to price."

"In that case," said Sancho, "in God's hand be it, and let it rain lashes." But the rogue no
longer laid them on his shoulders, but laid on to the trees, with such groans every now and
then, that one would have thought at each of them his soul was being plucked up by the roots.
Don Quixote, touched to the heart, and fearing he might make an end of himself, and that through
Sancho's imprudence he might miss his own object, said to him, "As thou livest, my friend,
let the matter rest where it is, for the remedy seems to me a very rough one, and it will be
well to have patience; Rome was not built in a day. If I have not reckoned wrong thou hast
given thyself over a thousand lashes; that is enough for the present."

"No, no, señor," replied Sancho; "it shall never be said of me, 'The money paid, the arms broken';
go back a little further, your worship, and let me give myself at any rate a thousand lashes
more; for in a couple of bouts like this we shall have finished off the lot, with even cloth
to spare."

"As thou art in such a willing mood," said Don Quixote, "may heaven aid thee; lay on and I'll
retire."

Sancho returned to his task with so much resolution that he soon had the bark stripped off
several trees, such was the severity with which he whipped himself; and one time, raising his
voice, and giving a beech a tremendous lash, he cried out, "Here dies Samson, and all with him!"

At the sound of his piteous cry and of the stroke of the cruel lash, Don Quixote ran to him
at once, and seizing the twisted halter, said to him:

"Heaven forbid, Sancho my friend, that to please me thou shouldst lose thy life, which is needed
for the support of thy wife and children; let Dulcinea wait for a better opportunity, and I
will have patience until thou hast gained fresh strength so as to finish off this business
to the satisfaction of everybody."

"As your worship will have it so, señor," said Sancho, "so be it; but throw your cloak over
my shoulders, for I'm sweating and I don't want to take cold; it's a risk that novice disciplinants
run."

Don Quixote obeyed, and stripping himself covered Sancho, who slept until the sun woke him;
they then resumed their journey, which for the time being they brought to an end at a village
that lay three leagues farther on.

FOOTNOTES:

[433-1] The olla is the national dish of Spain, and is a stew composed of beef, bacon, sausage,
chick-peas and cabbage, with any other meat or vegetables which may be on hand.

[434-2] A morion is a helmet without visor or beaver for protecting the face.

[435-3] Alexander the Great was so fond of his horse Bucephalus that when it died in India
during Alexander's sojourn there, he founded a city which he called Bucephalia, in honor of
the steed.

[435-4] The Cid was the greatest of Spanish heroes.

[436-5] Rocin is, in Spanish, a horse used for labor, as distinguished from one kept for pleasure
or for personal use; ante means before. Thus the name Rocinante meant that the horse had formerly
been a hack, or work horse.

[436-6] Amadis de Gaul was the hero of one of the most celebrated romances of chivalry.

[438-1] When Don Quixote first set out on his quest of adventures, he was unattended. Having
been forced, however, to return to his native town, he persuaded a peasant, Sancho Panza by
name, to go with him and serve as his squire. While Sancho was a hard-headed, practical man,
he was carried away by Don Quixote's promises of reward, and in time, through listening constantly
to the Don's conversation, he became almost as mad as his master.

[440-2] Briareus was a famous giant of ancient mythology, who had fifty heads and one hundred arms.

[440-3] By sage is here meant an enchanter or magician.

[441-1] Don Quixote and Sancho had remained in terror through an entire night, fancying from
the noise they heard that they were near some terrible danger. In the morning they found that
this noise proceeded from some fulling mills in the neighborhood.

[442-2] Mambrino was a Moorish king, mentioned in some of the romantic poems which Don Quixote
is intended to burlesque. He possessed an enchanted golden helmet which rendered the wearer
invulnerable, and which was naturally much sought after by all the knights. Rinaldo finally
obtained possession of it. Don Quixote, whose helmet had been destroyed, had sworn that he
would lead a life of particular hardship until he had made himself master of the wonderful helmet.

[445-3] The piece of eight is equal to about one dollar of American money. The maravedi is
a small copper coin, of the value of three mills in American money.

[446-4] The god of smithies was the old Greek and Roman god Hephæstus, or Vulcan; the god of
battles was Mars.

[446-5] Martino is a blunder of Sancho's for Mambrino.

[448-1] This was a gentlemanly person whom Don Quixote had met on the road a short time before.

[462-1] In certain rivers of Spain, floating mills, moored in mid-stream, were common.

[467-1] This was the wicked enchanter who had caused the beards to grow.

[468-2] This was the leader of the sorrowful bearded ladies.

[468-3] The duke had promised to bestow on Sancho the government of an island.

[469-4] The name of the "Distressed One."

[472-5] This was Phaëton, whose story is told in Volume II.

[476-6] Don Quixote and Sancho Panza had been persuaded that Dulcinea del Toboso, Don Quixote's
lady, was under enchantment, from which she could not be released until Sancho had given himself
three thousand three hundred lashes.

[478-7] The "seven she-goats" were the Pleiades.

PRONUNCIATION OF PROPER NAMES

NOTE.--The pronunciation of difficult words is indicated by respelling them phonetically. N
is used to indicate the French nasal sound; K, the sound of ch in German; ü, the sound of the
German ü, and French u; ö, the sound of ö in foreign languages.

  ACTÆON, ak tee´ on
  ÆNEAS SYLVIUS, ee nee´ as sil´ vy us
  ALLEGHANIES, al´´ le gay´ niz
  ÆSCHYLUS, es´ ky lus
  AMADIS, am´ a dis
  BABIECA, ba be ay´ ka
  BENOIT, ben wah´
  BOSE, bo´ zeh
  BRIAREUS, bri a´ re us
  BUCEPHALUS, bu sef´ a lus
  CASA GUIDI, kah´ sa gwee´ dee
  CERVANTES, SAAVEDRA, MIGUEL DE, sur van´ teez, sah ved´ ra, mee
    gayl´ deh
  CHINGACHGOOK, chin gahk´ gook
  CHOTEAU, sho to´
  CHRISTIERN, Kris´ tee urn
  CLAVILEÑO, klah ve lay´ nyo
  DON QUIXOTE, don kwiks´ oat, (Sp.) don´´ kee ho´ tay
  DU CHAILLU, dü shay lü´
  HOTEL DES INVALIDES, o tel´ day zaN´´ va´´ leed´
  MAMBRINO, mam bree´ no
  MARTINO, mar tee´ no
  MICHAEL AROUT, (Fr.) mee shel´ ah roo´
  MOHICANS, mo hee´ kanz
  MONTCALM, mont cahm´
  NGOBI, ngo´ bi
  OLAUS MAGNUS, o lay´ us mag´ nus
  ORAN, o rahn´
  ORPHÉON, or fay oN´
  PARA, pah rah´
  PARACELSUS, par a sel´ sus
  PHAETHON, fay´ eh thon
  PLEIADES, plee´ ya deez
  POTOSI, po to see´
  PRAIRIE DU CHIEN, pray´ ree doo sheen´
  PTOLEMY, tol´ e my
  QUASHQUAMME, quash guah´ me
  QUESADA, kee sah´ da
  ROCINANTE, ro´´ see nahn´ tay
  RODERICH VICH ALPINE, rod´ rick vick al´ pine
  ST. GERMAIN, saN zher´´ maN´
  SANCHO PANZA, sang´ ko pan´ za, (Sp.) sahn´ cha pahn´ tha
  SIOUX, soo
  SOUVESTRE, EMILE, soo´´ vestr´, ay meel´
  TÊTE ROUGE, tate roozh
  THOREAU, tho´ ro, or tho ro´
  VERSAILLES, vur saylz´
  WILLAMETTE, wil ah´ met
  XENIL, hay´ neel

  Corrections

  24   Muleteeer changed to Muleteer
  102  Neverthelesss changed to Nevertheless
  107  hugh changed to huge
  123  distiguish changed to distinguish
  139  postion changed to position
  191  fellow-ceatures changed to fellow-creatures
  196  immeditatively changed to meditatively
  219  and Tom Tolliver changed to and Tom Tulliver
  267  miscroscope changed to microscope
  314  acquintance changed to acquaintance
  369  round, I take it. changed to round, I take it."
  407  Goodnature changed to Good-nature
  417  profundly changed to profoundly
  420  Holden ready for the fight: changed to Holden ready for the fight."
  442  out, answered changed to out," answered
  468  senora changed to señora
  476  of enchanters. changed to of enchanters."
  482  Rosinante's saddle changed to Rocinante's saddle
  485  Actaeon changed to Actæon
  485  Aeneas changed to Æneas
  485  Aeschyllus changed to Æschylus
  485  Buchephalus changed to Bucephalus
  485  Clavileno changed to Clavileño
  486  Orpheon changed to Orphéon
  486  Pleiadas changed to Pleiades
  486  Quashguamme changed to Quashquamme
  486  Tete changed to Tête

  Inconsistent hyphenation

  daylight / day-light
  farmhouse / farm-house
  firearms / fire-arms
  highborn / high-born
  homemade / home-made
  lopsided / lop-sided
  roadside / road-side
  skylark / sky-lark
  tipsy cake / tipsy-cake
  tomorrow / to-morrow
  upstream / up-stream
  waterbreaker / water-breaker

  Other comments

  The footnote referred to by marker number 4 on page 30 was
  printed on page 31.