A caterpillar, which the Indians name sustillo, and by which a paper is fabricated, very similar
to that made in China, is bred in the pacae, a tree well known in Peru. In proportion to the
vigour and majestic growth of this tree, is the number of the insects it nourishes, and which
are of the kind and size of the bombyx, or silk-worm. When they are completely satiated, they
unite at the body of the tree, seeking the part which is best adapted to the extension they
have to take. They then form, with the greatest symmetry and regularity, a web which is larger
or smaller, according to the number of the operators; and more or less pliant, according to
the quality of the leaf by which they have been nourished, the whole of them remaining beneath.
This envelope, on which they bestow such a texture, consistency, and lustre, that it cannot
be decomposed by any practicable expedient, having been finished, they all of them unite, and
ranging themselves in vertical and even files, form in the centre a perfect square. Being thus
disposed, each of them makes its cocoon, or pod, of a coarse and short silk, in which it is
transformed from the grub into the chrysalis, and from the chrysalis into the papilio, or moth.
In proportion as they afterwards quit their confinement, to take wing, they detach wherever
it is most convenient to them, their envelope, or web, a portion of which remains suspended
to the trunk of the tree, where it waves to and fro like a streamer, and which becomes more
or less white, according as the air and humidity of the season and situation admit. This natural
silk paper has been gathered measuring a yard and a half, of an elliptical shape, which is
peculiar to all of it.

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

DESCRIPTION OF A BEAUTIFUL TREE.

By John F.M. Dovaston, Esq. A.M., of Westfelton, near Shrewsbury.

  "Hamlet. Do you see nothing there?
   Queen. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see."
                                                 Hamlet.

  "You cannot see the wood for trees."
                                                 Ray's Proverbs.

It was now the middle of May; the trees had fully put forth their bright, fresh leaves, and
the green fields were luxuriant in a profusion of flowers. We had travelled through a fine
country; when, descending the slope of a wooded valley, we were struck with delight and admiration
at a tree of extraordinary appearance. There were several of the sort, dispersed singly, and
in groups over the plains and grassy knolls. One we shall attempt to describe, though well
aware how feeble is the most florid description to depict an idea of so magnificent an object.
In height it exceeded 50 ft., the diameter of its shade was nearly 90 ft., and the circumference
of the bole 15 ft.: it was in full leaf and flower, and in appearance at once united the features
of strength, majesty, and beauty; having the stateliness of the oak, in its trunk and arms;
the density of the sycamore, in its dark, deep, massy foliage; and the graceful featheriness
of the ash, in its waving branches, that dangled in rich tresses almost to the ground. Its
general character as a tree was rich and varied, nor were its parts less attractive by their
extreme beauty when separately considered. Each leaf was about 18 in. in length; but nature,
always attentive to elegance, to obviate heaviness, had at the end of a very strong leaf-stalk
divided it into five, and sometimes seven, leafits, of unequal length, and very long oval shape,
finely serrated. These leafits were disposed in a circular form, radiating from the centre,
like the leaves of the fan palm, though placed in a contrary plane to those of that magnificent
ornament of the tropical forests. The central, or lower, leafits were the largest, each of
them being 10 in. in length, and 4 in. in breadth, and the whole exterior of the foliage being
disposed in an imbricated form, having a beautifully light and palmated appearance. The flowers,
in which the tree was profuse, demand our deep admiration and attention: each group of them
rose perpendicularly from the end of the young shoot, and was in length 14 in., like a gigantic
hyacinth, and quite as beautiful, spiked to a point, exhibiting a cone or pyramid of flowers,
widely separate on all sides, and all expanded together, principally white, finely tinted with
various colours, as red, pink, yellow, and buff, the stamina forming a most elegant fringe
amid the modest tints of the large and copious petals. These feathery blossoms, lovely in colours
and stately in shape, stood upright on every branch all over the tree, like flowery minarets
on innumerable verdant turrets. We had thus the opportunity of ascertaining that it belonged
to that class of Linnaeus consisting entirely of rare plants the Heptándria, and the order
Monogynia; the natural order Trihilàtae; and the A'cera of Jussieu.

The natives informed us that the fruit ripens early in autumn, and consists of bunches of apples,
thinly beset with sharp thorns, each when broken producing one or two large kernels, about
2 in. in circumference, of the finest bright mahogany colour without, and white within; that
the tree is deciduous, and just before its fall changes to the finest tints of red, yellow,
orange, and brown. When divested of its luxuriant foliage, the buds of the next year appear
like little spears, which through the winter are covered with a fine glutinous gum, evidently
designed to protect the embryo shoots within, as an hybernaculum, from the severe frosts of
the climate, and which glisten in the cold sunshine like diamonds. It has the strange property
of performing the whole of its vigorous shoot, nearly a yard long, in the short space of three
weeks, employing all the rest of the year in converting it into wood, adding to its strength,
and varying its beauty. The wood when sawn is of the finest snowy whiteness. The tree is easily
raised; indifferent as to soil, climate, or situation; removed with safety, of quick growth,
thrives to a vast age and size; subject to no blight or disease; in the earliest spring bursting
its immense buds into that vigour, exuberance, and beauty, which we have here feebly attempted
to describe. The natives said it was originally brought from the east of Asia, but grows freely
in any climate, and in their tongue its name is designated by a combination of three words,
signifying separately, a noble animal, an elegant game, and a luscious kernel. Had Linnaeus
seen this tree, he would have assuredly contemplated it with delightful ecstacy, and named
it the Ae'sculus Hippocástanum.--Magazine of Natural History.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CIGAR-SMOKING.

The Surgeon-General of the Forces has recently made public his belief, that never, till within
the last twenty years, did he see so many young men with pale faces and emaciated figures,
and he attributes the existence of the evil to the use of Cigars. The unreflecting servility
with which men adopt new and foreign practices, is fully exemplified in the present case; for
it is notorious that the practice of cigar-smoking, the modern foppery from Regent-street to
Cheapside and Cornhill, was an importation of the Peninsular War; the imitation having been
begun by the Spaniards, whose models are what are usually called the savages of America. The
dietetic mischief, and consequent paleness of complexion and emaciation of muscle, which are
attributable to the use of cigars, belong, no doubt, to an injury inflicted, perhaps, in more
ways than one upon the aids and organs of digestion; nor is that hypothesis at all inconsistent
with what we hear from so many cigar-smokers, namely, that their cigar is their dependence
for digestion! That, after having impaired the organ, or weakened its tone, or dried up the
salival menstruum, they should need a stimulant, even in the very form of the bane which injures
them, is only of a piece with all that has been said of drinking, and especially of dram-drinking,
with which latter debauch, the debauch of cigar-smoking has the closest possible alliance.
We never pass one of those stifling rendezvous in the metropolis--a cigar-shop, open till the
latest hours--without mentally classing it with the gin-shops, its only compeers!

Exclusive of the low habit of imitation, a dulness and feebleness of understanding, an absence
of intellectual resources, a vacuity of thought is the great inducement to the use of this,
as of all other drugs, whether from the cigar-shop, or the snuff-shop, or the gin-shop, or
the wine-cellar; a truth by no means the less certain, because it happens that men of the highest
powers of mind are drawn into the vice, and made to reduce themselves, by their adoption and
dependence upon it, to the lowest level of the vulgar; but, at the same time, it is not to
be denied, that a great support in defence of cigar-smoking is found in the medical opinions
sometimes advanced as to its salutary influence. Now, if we admit, broadly and at once, that
there may be times and circumstances in which the inhaling the hot smoke of a powerful narcotic
drug is useful to the human body, must it follow that the habitual resort to such a practice,
and this under all circumstances, is useful also, and even free from the most serious inconveniences?

It is the admitted maxim, that if smoking is accompanied by spitting, injury results to the
smoker; and the reason assigned is, that the salival fluid, which should assist digestion,
is in this manner dissipated, and taken from its office. But may not the habitual application
of the narcotic influence to the nervous system have its evils also? May it not weaken or deaden
the nervous and muscular action which is needful to digestion? And may not even the excessive
quantity of the matter of heat, thus artificially conveyed into the body, tend to a desiccation
of the system, as injurious under general circumstances, as it may be beneficial under particular
ones?

Smoking invites thirst; and there is little risk in advancing, that whatever superinduces an
unnatural indulgence in the use of liquids is itself, and without farther question, injurious,
even if the liquids resorted to are of the most innocent description; but, in point of fact,
the cigar-smoker will usually appease his thirst by means of liquors in themselves his enemies!

It is said, however, that the use of cigars is beneficial when we find ourselves in marshy
situations, with a high temperature, and generally, whenever the atmosphere inclines to the
introduction of putridity and fever into the system. We believe this; and perhaps a useful
theory of the alternate benefit and mischief of cigar-smoking may be offered upon the basis
of that proposition. When and wherever the body requires to be dried, cigar-smoking may be
salutary; and when and wherever that drying, or desiccation, is injurious, then and there cigar-smoking
may be to be shunned. We know that, while surrounded by an atmosphere overcharged, or even
only saturated with moisture, moist bodies remain moist, or do not part with that excess of
moisture from which a drier atmosphere would relieve them; and that living bodies, so circumstanced,
are threatened with typhus and typhoid fever. It is highly probable, therefore, that narcotics,
in such cases, may allay a morbid irritability of the nerves, or effect a salutary diminution
of healthful sensibility; under such circumstances, the desiccating and sedative effects of
tobacco-smoking may prove beneficial; while, in all ordinary states of the system and of the
atmosphere, the same desiccative and sedative influences may produce immediate evil consequences,
more or less readily perceptible, and undermine, however gradually, the strength of the constitution.--United
Service Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW COINAGE.

Why does not some man of public research enlighten the public on the proceedings at the Mint?
The whole system is as little comprehensible by the uninitiated as the philosopher's stone.
The cost of the Mint is prodigious--the machinery is all that machinery can be; yet we have
one of the ugliest coinages of any nation of Europe. A new issue of coin is about to be commenced.

"It appears, from the king's proclamation, that the new coinage will consist of double sovereigns,
to be each of the value of 40s.; sovereigns, each of 20s.; and half-sovereigns, 10s. silver
crowns, half-crowns, shillings, and sixpences. The double-sovereigns have for the obverse the
king's effigy, with the inscription, 'Gulielmus IIII. D.G. Britanniarum Rex. F.D.;' and for
the reverse, the ensigns armorial of the United Kingdom contained in a shield, encircled by
the collar of the Order of the Garter, and upon the edge of the piece the words 'Decus et Tutamen.'
The crowns and half-crowns will be similar. The shilling has on the reverse the words 'One
Shilling,' placed in the centre of the piece, within a wreath, having an olive-branch on one
side, and an oak-branch on the other; and the sixpences have the same, except the word 'Sixpence'
instead of the words 'One Shilling.' The coppers will be nearly as at present."

