"We sat down to one of the most cheerful meals three people have ever enjoyed. We sat chatting
there for nearly an hour. All the while I was trying to reconcile this man Ombos who sat talking
boyishly with the student of occultism and black magic I had talked with an hour or so before.
If I had felt any resentment of the tricks he had played on me it would have vanished utterly.
Afterwards Margot made real Turkish coffee over a dainty spirit lamp ... once--in a critical
stage in the coffee-making, too--she looked up and her eyes sought mine; then her red lips
parted in a smile. She poured out the coffee deftly, blowing out the lamp, and put the little
copper pot on a plate.

"Ombos surveyed his coffee with the air of a connoisseur, his head turned on one side.

"Margot produced the bowls of cigarettes and reached over my shoulder to offer me one. 'You
want Egyptian?' she said smiling. 'You see I have a good memory--you smoked them last time.'

"A warm faint perfume came from her hair.

"It was ten o'clock when I rose to leave, Ombos and Margot came out to the front to say good
night: my last glimpse, as I walked down the pavé street, was of Margot--a bare-headed figure,
with wistful grey eyes, calm with the mysterious wisdom of pure womanhood. She waved her dainty
lace handkerchief to me.

"That was the last of Ombos in the flesh. The next day, after German shells had poured on Ypres
for six hours without cessation, my regiment left the town, and we went out a mile or two to
take over some trenches.

"A month later my duty took me back to Ypres, and I found myself walking up the Rue Bar-le-Duc
towards the little antique shop. Overhead the shells whistled without cessation. It was now
a city of the dead--one could not realize that it was the same pleasant little town where I
had met with so strange an experience a few weeks back. Men, children and horses were lying
dead in every gutter.

"In due course I arrived at the shop. A large hole had been ripped in the pavé road before
the door, and I had to step over a dead and twisted soldier to gain an entrance. Of course
the place was empty. Ombos, Albertus Magnus and all the wonderful contents of the spacious
old rooms had disappeared. I made a search of the house, and it was not without a curious sensation
in my heart that I entered the room where the Master of Masters had towered in his niche. Silence--only
the faint boom of a gun far away in the French trenches--awful, ghastly silence. Then a deafening
roar and a falling of masonry as Krupp's marked down another house in the town of sorrow. The
horror of it!

"I turned dismally away, out into the Rue Bar-le-Duc, and along the square. A few scattered
lights shone feebly through the evening mist, and over towards the Norman bridge the yellow
flames from a burning house lit up the sky with a lurid glow. At nearly every street corner
little groups of civilians had collected and were talking and gesticulating in a terrified
manner. When a big shell came with a hoarse, rattling noise through the air, like a racing
motor cycle on the track at Brooklands, they would rush into their homes, panic-smitten. If
death winked, and passed them over, out they would creep again. And so they lived in an inferno
of shells for weeks on end.

"An ambulance wagon overturned in the middle of the road attracted my attention. I could not
repress a shudder as I looked on the shell-shattered wreck.... It was the old type of four-horse
ambulance used by the army in South Africa; possibly it had jolted into the shell-swept death-trap
of Spion Kop, or carried men into the reeking enteric camps of Ladysmith. Well, it had made
its last journey this time! The four dead horses had not been cut away from the traces, and
from underneath the huddled and twisted heap stuck out an arm, and in the hand was clutched
one of those short, stumpy whips which are used by the lead driver of a gun. I can see that
poor chap in my mind thrashing and urging his team of horses into a gallop, for it was not
reckoned wise to meander about the streets of Ypres, and then--one blinding crash.

"I swung round with a great desire to get away from the appalling scene, and as I did so, I
noticed a girl in a doorway struggling in the grip of a powerful, swarthy-faced man of middle
age. In the fading light I caught a glimpse of her face, and I was out of the shadow and by
her side like a sky-rocket.

"'Let her go!' I said shortly. 'Before I mop out the gutter with you.'

"The man turned on me.

"'Who the devil----'

"'That's enough!'

"A Red Cap--a corporal in the Military Police--loomed into view, and with an imprecation the
rough backed away from the girl, turned, and in a moment was lost in the gloom. I brought my
eyes back to the girl who had confronted me in the red light of sunset, and I stood gazing
at her dumbly, fascinated, but with never a word to say. She was burning with anger and shame,
trembling like an aspen, too.

"It was Margot!

"The girl glanced up at me, a look that set my heart throbbing. It was my first real sight
of her since I had seen her that afternoon with Ombos. I had thought her pretty then, but there
is a distinct gap between a pretty woman and a lovely woman, and she was as beautiful as a
Greek marble. Indeed, but for the carmine of her lips, and long dark eyelashes, she might have
been chiselled out of pellucid stone, for her skin was dead white. She was--or had been--beautifully
and expensively dressed, and there was breeding and refinement in every line of her face.

"'Don't you know me?' I said.

"The girl looked at me intently.

"'I know you, of course,' she said.

"I won't waste time in trying to tell you what my thoughts and sensations were. Rather I will
tell you instead, what I did.

"It was some minutes later, and already we had started to walk slowly back in the direction
of the Rue Bar-le-Duc.

"'And now you want to know--' she said.

"'Yes--that's it--what's become of Ombos ... and the bronze statue?'

"Margot looked up at me, and a strange melancholy transformed her face.... She was at a loss
for words.... 'Poor Ombos--oh, poor, cranky Ombos,' she muttered. 'One morning I found him
dead in his room, with all his wonderful, brown, powdery-looking books. He was leaning on a
table over an old volume that he was fond of.... And then the doctors came. He had died, they
afterwards said, of failure of the heart's action.'

"'Dead,' I murmured mechanically....

"'Then everything was very uncomfortable. But I saved a good sum of money, and I sent most
of the valuable things to Paris to be sold--no living soul coming forward to make any claims.
Ombos left everything to me ... bonds, securities, and all. Come this way--I have a little
room up the side-street.

"'He left me well provided for. He----'

"'Yes; but why on earth do you stay in this dead city,' I broke in.

"'Sssh!... Don't interrupt unless I ask you questions.

"'I'll tell you all about everything. It's extraordinarily difficult....'

"I waited.

"'You see,' she picked her words carefully, 'Ombos was so--queer about that horrible Albertus
Magnus of his. He had made me promise never to part with it and it seemed to me--stupidly perhaps--that
I owed him that--to see that his only wish was carried out to the letter. Otherwise I should
never dare to have stayed here. You couldn't expect me to move about with a gigantic bronze
figure without making ample preparations.'

"'Ah!'...

"'This is where I live,' she said in a low voice.

"Margot had halted in front of an alley leading over rough cobbles, into a small square of
what appeared to be old oak-fronted houses. A narrow passage-way ran down by one side of the
end house.

"'Won't you come inside, and--see Albertus? This way,' she said. 'It's rather dark, I'm afraid.'

"In pitch-black darkness, guided by Margot's hand, I stumbled through a doorway into a spacious
hall--a mysterious, fusty-smelling cavern of a place--along a passage, and then up a flight
of worn stone stairs. It was one of those old houses where one could feel the silence and hear
the shadows. The steps came out upon a bare landing with oak-lined walls, lit only by a solitary
flickering candle, and Margot, halting before a locked door, opened it and motioned me to enter.

"The room was in darkness, and I knew not what fear, akin to that little grey shadow of a fear,
was to be found in the darkness there. At first I hesitated. Then Margot came with the candle,
and as it guttered, the flame threw distorted shadows; at one moment lighting up a dark spot
with a sudden flash, and then sending queer, erratic reflections chasing across the oak panelling.
Then a flicker displayed the unmade bed on which Margot had lain.... She coloured deeply.

"'You have stored the bronze statue in some other part of the house,' I said at a venture.

"She looked at me, as I thought, a little uneasily.

"'You aren't afraid of that old statue?' she exclaimed. 'We might at least light up the candles,'
she added, as I made no reply; and she turned and put a burning taper to the candelabra.

"As Margot spoke the candles flared up, and then, with a sudden start of unexplained dismay,
I saw in a corner by the bed stood the bronze figure.

"As I looked at it I felt the horror of nightmare seize me, for it bore a striking resemblance
to Ombos. A dreadful exuberance and vitality seemed to shine through the thing, an exuberance
wholly malign, a vitality that foamed and frothed with unimaginable evil. Evil beamed from
the deep cavernous eyes; it leered in the demon-like mouth.... Ugh!--

"Margot walked up to me and patted my shoulder. 'Well, and are you really afraid of that thing,'
she said, pointing to the statue.

"'But, don't you see?' said I. 'It's scarcely the face of a bronze figure. It's almost human.
No; it isn't even human. It's the face of some devil.' Margot laughed.

"'Yes: he isn't very cheerful,' she said. 'Scarcely a boudoir ornament, eh? I'll throw a blanket
over Albertus if you like.'

"'I really wish you would,' I said, 'I don't care so long as he can't grin at me.'

"Somehow, with the bronze figure covered up, I felt much lighter and happier.

"I think that Margot--that Margot must have been rather overstrained after the struggle with
that brute. She seemed to be all nerves--upset: insisted in putting her little white hand on
mine in a very solemn way, and thanking me for all sorts of imaginary favours.... Got 'a wheeze'
into her head, among other rot, that I had saved her life.

"'Look here,' I said. 'I wish you wouldn't talk so jolly silly. I'm not a bit unselfish, I'm
a novelist. There was nothin' doin' with my crowd--regiment I mean--and so I came here to look
for "copy." That was why I persisted in seeing you home here. It was all just a matter of "copy"
to me--at the start.' I paused, and Margot turned her tourmaline eyes full on me. Had you asked
me after my first visit to old Ombos what Margot's eyes were like I could not have told you
the colour to save my life. If I had been forced to weigh out a guess I might have said they
were a shade of grey. Grey? Name of a little dog! Yes, I should have called 'em grey, but that
would have been like describing the Pyramids by saying they were stone. However can I describe
the wonder that I found ..."

A sort of flush appeared on Crabbe's boyish face. "I--I'm afraid I have run off the track of
my story a bit," he stammered, "but I may as well tell you all of it."

"Take a drink of whiskey;" said Duckford slowly, "and take your own time."

"Margot looked at me, her lips quivering. 'You've not found much "copy" I'm afraid,' she answered
despondently.

"'Now,' I said, meeting her eyes, '"copy" matters not at all ... you are all that matters.'

"It does not in the least concern you or the story to know what manner of a woman Margot is.
But I might say that she is in fulness a woman--not a fribble, or one of those pick-me-up-and-carry-me
women. So when I said plain words to her she did not pretend to misunderstand.

"'Don't let us be conventional,' I went on, 'It wouldn't fit in with these wonderful days a
bit. Perhaps I've no right to talk to you like this--but Ombos is dead and you seem to have
no friend in the world. We have got caught up, you and I, in one of the marvellous tangles
of this great conflict, and God knows how it's all going to end. But it seems to have been
written in the book of fate that we should meet, and whether Ombos and his bronze statue haunts
me to the end of my days or he doesn't, I'm glad I have met you, and to know for just one swift
hour I've used these hands of mine in your service. I wouldn't take back one minute of these
great days!'

"Margot was regarding me with her wide eyes, a little startled, but I saw beyond those rounds
of tourmaline a soft light.

"'How is it?' said Margot calmly. 'A few hours ago you hadn't spoken more than a few words
to me ... you don't know me.'

"'In times of war,' I reminded her, 'we live a year in a day.'

"Margot rested her chin on her hands. 'What a strange world it is,' she murmured.

"'Confoundedly strange,' I agreed. 'I can't help thinking even now that my meeting with Ombos
in that weird den in the Rue Bar-le-Duc was all a dream, and I'm going to wake up soon.'

"'I didn't mean that,' Margot said quietly. 'That didn't seem so strange to me. Perhaps it's
because I lived with Ombos for nearly four years.'

"'It was just like a page torn from the Arabian Nights to me,' I said. She smiled at me wanly.

"'The only other home I've known was with foster-parents in Paris when I was quite a child,'
she said. 'I was brought here straight from a convent school in Brussels. Ombos was my guardian.
He'--she hesitated, shivering--'I don't think he was quite--sane, but he was always very kind
to me.'

"'Margot,' I stammered as I imprisoned her hands in mine, 'I'm going to take you out of this
mudhole of a place.... I'm going to send you over to England. I'll stay here and look after
you to-night, and to-morrow I'll see you on your way.'

"She dragged her hands away suddenly.

"'But are you sure?' Margot said, half sobbing. 'Please reflect ... you are in too much of
a hurry. When an idea comes to you--the idea, that you want me for instance--what do you do?
Instead of taking the idea for a long, cool walk, you sit down here to work it up ... it is
the eternal boyishness of the Englishman. You must first think of your future.'

"'But do you think that the future holds anything for me now that I wouldn't throw away with
both hands for you?' I said, and the passion of my voice whipped the blood up into that alabaster
face ... she put out her hands with a little pleading movement.

"'Don't,' she said again.

"'I must,' I said stubbornly. 'There's nothing in the world powerful enough to take you from
me ... if you will have me. Margot, you must believe me ... you shall believe me!' I added
almost savagely, and my hands closed round her waist as she leaned against the back of a huge
old divan. Margot closed her eyes for a moment and her head dropped gently on my shoulder.
Her hair brushed my face, and the faint musky scent that came from it is woven into all my
after memories of that moment, I drew her closer and she sighed for very happiness, while life
drifted past in uncounted minutes or hours.

"It was the next evening that I arranged to have one of the A.S.C. cars,--then running between
Ypres and St. Omer,--wait for us outside Margot's rooms. Under cover of darkness I bundled
Margot into the motor-lorry, got the bronze statue in, and jumped up on the driver's seat beside
her, and sank down with a gasp of relief. One last glimpse of the little bulgy window of the
shop as the lorry rounded the corner, and then I turned and looked at the girl. Tears glittered
in her eyes, and her lips were quivering. I put my hand out and closed over her ice-cold fingers.

"'Margot!' I said, 'I'm taking you to Boulogne and then you will go to England to my home.
My people will look after you....'

"'But--' she hesitated.

"'There are no "buts,"' I said firmly, 'You are coming with me. You can't stay in this infernal
hole, like a rat in a trap.'

"Margot gave a weary little sigh and leaned closer to me, giving herself into my care as trustfully
as a child. Until that time she had been just a figure in the great war game that might provide
me with something to 'write up' into a book. That had been my principal thought. Now, all in
a few moments, her beauty, the frightened look which had shone in her great grey eyes, her
distress made me forget all that, drove all thoughts of traffic with publishers from my mind.
I knew only that it was good to help her.

"Then I set about thinking how I could get Margot and Albertus Magnus to England. It was going
to be a difficult game. I went carefully over all the good fellows I knew who could help me.
There was old Longden of the A.S.C. depôt at St. Omer, there was Captain Chester, the transport
officer at Boulogne, and Orgles of ammunition supply at Cassel, which is a small place where
the strings of motors from the base unload.

"Well, (to get on,) we arrived late that night at St. Omer, and by a vast amount of bribery
and cajolery I got some A.S.C. men to knock up a strong case for the Albertus Magnus and--but
enough. It is sufficient to say that an officer who was going home on leave was kind enough
to see Margot as far as Boulogne, and in the fullness of time both Albertus Magnus and the
girl came safely to England.

"I have endeavoured to give you the facts of my strange story up to this point, without omission
or exaggeration. I have been careful not to miss out the slightest items. If I have failed,
it must not be put down to forgetfulness: for I do not think there is a single thing about
old Ombos that has not been permanently fixed in my mind. Even now I have but to shut my eyes
to see the leering face of Albertus, to stand once more trembling with terror and see that
green shadow jump into the dusk with hellish glee and frolicsome skippings and toppings gallop
away, to walk into the old library at home and see poor Price with his knees drawn up and eyes
fixed open in extreme terror--But enough. I do not exaggerate.

"And now I must come to what you'll call the second part of the story--though it was all one
long connected nightmare to me. I returned from France, as you know, six months ago, with a
bullet in my leg, and thought myself in the best of luck to get a 'blighty' one; I mean a slight
wound which necessitated me being sent back to England. I went down to a charming old house
at Monk's Ely which my father had lately moved into, and soon drifted into peaceful ways of
country life. The trivial little objects and customs of rustic life--those simple things that
are best of all--attracted me surprisingly.

"A delightful room full of my books and pictures had been prepared on the ground floor of the
house, but I was not often in it. Still, I accorded to my bronze statue a prominent corner
in the room, where he frowned upon all my other possessions with that great look of disinterestedness
which only bronze or death can typify.

"A week or two passed without incident, except that again and again a curious feeling that
sometimes I was not alone was present in my mind. In a way I got used to it, because after
being in the trenches and looking in the face of death as a kind of hobby the feeling of release
and lightness that comes over one drives all other troubles clean away. But after a while this
feeling seemed to be growing in poignancy. In fact at the end of the first fortnight I mentioned
it to my father.

"'Strange you should have felt like that,' he said one night after dinner, 'because for the
last day or so, the same sensation has been creeping over me. When is it that you have your
ghostly visitor? Have you any feeling now of such a thing, for instance?'

"We were having a smoke on the lawn ... it was a beautiful evening of stars, and as he spoke
I felt the unseen presence with terrific intensity. At that moment the door that led from the
library quietly swung open, and just as quietly closed again, as if someone had passed out
into the garden.

"'Did you see that?' I said. 'There is not a breath of wind stirring: odd thing that a door
should play those kind of tricks.'

"My father was silent a moment.

"'You felt it then,' he said.

"'Frightfully!' I breathed.

"'Let's get back to the dining-room,' my father urged.

"Just as we got up to the house door (not the library door which opened on the path), I saw,
as I thought, a figure move in the bushes near the library. Perhaps it would be better to describe
it as a shadow ... but I could swear that it was of a greenish colour. For one moment, from
sheer terror of the unseen, I stood frozen to the doorstep, and then my father touched my arm
and we walked in together.

"That evening, my friend Price, after his wont, dropped in. I had just run the car round to
the front door and was about to run into the village to bring the vicar back to stay with us
over the week-end--besides I badly wanted to get away from those infernal gusts of depression
that swept the place. I did not scruple to keep to my arrangements and told Price to make himself
comfortable in the library till my return. 'You'll find cigars, spirits--and the spirit,' I
said jokingly. He nodded and laughed, and I jumped into the car, and quickly put a mile between
myself and--the bronze statue, for I was convinced that Albertus of Cologne was connected in
some unearthly way with the face of Fear that often turned full on me.

"A half-hour afterwards I had pulled up at the vicarage, and was hanging on to the bell which
gave forth a mighty clamour. I was impatient to get inside for a moment and behold the good
genial face of the vicar. Somehow, wherever the vicar went, he had a wonderful way of cheering
things up; his presence diffused an atmosphere of merriment. The door suddenly opened and I
was face to face with him:

"'My dear boy,' cried the vicar, 'I am glad to see you.'

"Then he stared at me in amazement. 'What have you done to yourself? You have aged years since
I saw you last week.'

"'Ah, I have things to tell you,' I said, 'Things that will make you think I am off my head,
but I shall convince you----'

"The vicar took my arm and walked me up to his sanctum, a fine spacious chamber, beautified
with that simplicity which throws a wonderful dignity over all, and tends to show how in omission
so much more refinement is to be discovered than in ornament. Touches of the vicar's keen discernment
of those things which are worthy and noble were revealed on every hand--knowledge of this sort
is older than ten thousand years. The room received one like a friend. The alcoves were filled
with well-bound books, there was a superb Persian carpet, old gate-legged tables--oak was there
everywhere; in the beams and the shelves and the mighty writing desk. The servant had brought
in a small table with syphons and spirits, and had set a lamp upon it. 'Help yourself,' said
the vicar.

"I poured out a dose of whisky and was lifting it for a squirt of soda when all at once I saw
Fear; not apprehension, not foreboding, but FEAR--the glass fell from my hand and my fingers
sagged on the handle of the syphon. I saw my reflection in a long glass, and my face was bleached
to an unhealthy dull whiteness.

"Suddenly like a shot, right in the middle of things, I found myself wondering about poor Price.
And I wasn't only wondering somehow I was horribly uneasy about him. It came to me that I had
been heartless to leave him all alone with the statue. At last I couldn't stand the strain
any longer. I got up.

"'Vicar,' I said, 'I'm going back to see if Price is all right. It will sound quite mad to
you, I expect, but if you want to know the sober truth, I will tell you that I have just seen
him in a vision: he was in trouble, I know. But come, let us get into the car. I have never
told anyone my whole story yet, but I shall like to tell you about Ombos and his statue. I
will tell you on the way back to Abbot's Ely. It is about time, in fact, that I tried to classify
what I have learned.'

"I then briefly related the story of Ombos and our acquaintance. I concealed nothing, dwelling
on the irresistible alluring influence of the bronze statue. I described the depression, the
despair, the overpowering moral weakness which seemed to follow me since the Albertus Magnus
had become one of my possessions. In short, I lifted the curtain, for the first time, and showed
the vicar a true picture of the strange world I had moved in for the last few weeks.

"When we had returned and backed the car into the coach house we walked across the lawn to
the back door. Here we met Clayton, the butler. He appeared to be frightened, and told me that
he had heard a kind of quivering, sobbing voice coming from the library. He thought Mr. Price
was ill. We went to the door. It was locked, and an application of a spare key proved that
the other key had been left in the lock inside. We knocked loudly, and called. There was no
reply. Clayton's conviction that 'something had happened' worked on my nerves frightfully,
and in the end the vicar and I forced open the door with some gardening tools.

"Something had happened.

"The room was in complete darkness, and at first nothing could be discerned at all. A slight
wind had got up in the last half an hour; and it rustled the trailers of ivy against the opened
windows. The heavy curtains moved carelessly in the draught, and the trees creaked faintly.
But beyond these inevitable noises, the room was quiet. Then gradually, the outline of the
room became visible and the framework of the window began to shape itself dimly before my eyes.
In the hazy light from the glass doors, and the vague light of a lamp in the hall, I saw that
the chesterfield in the window bay where Price so often lounged was tenanted. A gleam of his
light tweed suit showed there and across that.... Oh, I fully expected to see the other thing!
Across that there was an obscure greenish shadow.

"I walked towards it, when suddenly the shadow shot upwards and was lost to sight. Then the
springs of the chesterfield creaked and wheezed, the same as they will when suddenly released
from pressure. Clayton came in at that moment holding a candelabra aloft and the feeble flames
disclosed poor old Price. He was on his back, his knees slightly drawn up. The face was not
the face of a man at all--it was a horrible mask of contorted terror. His eyes were opened
and fixed; the mouth was twisted in a gape of fearful wonder.

"'Run, Clayton,' said I; 'a doctor and a policeman!' Clayton placed the candelabra on the table
and bounced out and down the front steps.

"Price was dead without a doubt. He had been strangled, the doctor thought from the greenish-black
marks on his neck and other circumstances. The savage deed had been accomplished with frightful
ferociousness and strength. Soon the room was in the possession of the police, and the vicar
and I turned out. There was little evidence at the inquest. The cries of poor Price had been
heard by my man, the body had been found--that was the practical summing-up of the whole matter.
The doctor gave his evidence as to the probability of murder, and the police evidence tended
in the same direction. It was affirmed that (some would say) he had been baffled by Price in
an attempt to rob the house, had sacrificed the poor fellow to the fury of his checked greed,
and had afterwards escaped by the window. The jury found that Price had died by the hand of
some person unknown.

"'Well, vicar,' I asked afterwards, 'what do you think of the verdict?'

"He told me that from his point of view it seemed to be the most reasonable one that could
be given; and to agree with the laws of common-sense.

"'Yes,' I replied, 'perhaps you are right from the common-sense point of view. Nevertheless,
I know that Price did not die by any human agency. It is too ghastly; I can still see that
green shadow hovering above his body on the couch. The huge shadow, the Elemental, the spirit
of Ombos--whatever you like to call it--was there in that room with Price. It was there in
a form that could be seen and felt. It is something more substantial than an ordinary shadow
... it is a thing of hellish terror, and it comes from that infernal bronze statue.'

"Thence forward, as day followed day, the ghastly memory of the murder of Price seemed to recede
from my mind. I neither heard nor saw anything, nor did that sense of the unseen presence lurking
about the house, come to me. I was beginning to hope that the spell of the bronze statue had
passed away for good. But one night after this interval I again felt fear looking whitely on
me again. If I were to describe all the incidents of the next few days in their order my story
would never come to an end, and your patience would be exhausted. Wherever I went after dark
had fallen the shadow of the unseen followed me. I had a passion for inviting people to stay
with me, and I longed for companionship of my kind which I had never known before; I was eager
to throw myself into the realities of life. The sense of a certain kind of separateness is
hell! Just you ask anybody who knows. I called on people, lived in my car, and dined out on
the slightest provocation. I remember I spent one evening, (after my desperate efforts to find
some good Samaritan to bear me company), with a party of road-menders; I helped them break
up the stones and all that kind of thing. But after they had packed up their tools and tea
cans and bid me 'thanks and good night,' I met fear on the homeward road--a shadow among shadows.
It would be almost impossible to describe the swerves that my mind took from that time till
the end. The presence of the Albertus Magnus filled me by turns with dread, blind fear, an
overshadowed sort of pleasure, and utter hopelessness. I dare not have it taken away; and I
knew that its presence was driving me mad. The vicar told me that if I could make up my mind
to have the statue removed or destroyed, it might dispel all my troubles. I ought to make an
application to the authority on bronzes at the British Museum, who would be only too pleased
to accept it. An application to escape the company of Albertus Magnus! A request that the British
Museum would graciously take over a bronze statue, the soul of departed Ombos, and a blind
terror that walked at twilight! The vicar's proposal sent me into a paroxysm of hysterical
laughter.

"I'd gone into the library one afternoon about four, as I had heavy arrears of letter-writing
to make up. It was surprising that I should choose that room where Albertus Magnus towered
in his corner--and (I don't know why) I felt vaguely unhappy when I had been separated too
long from him. By half past six I had finished. I went to the door to ring for Clayton to post
my letters, and turned to light up the candelabra (I forgot to say that it was a fad of my
father's all through his life to use candelabra in preference to electric light or gas), when
I heard, I thought I heard a chuckle behind me--low, faint, but unmistakably malicious. The
fate of poor Price flashed into my mind, and at the same time, I myself was watching myself
fight on that same chesterfield with something horrible, unclean, intangible. I turned round
instantaneously, feeling that the Albertus Magnus was at his hellish game again. With sudden
horror I saw where the chuckle had come from. The statue had changed from the bronze-green
to a fleshy-green. It was alive, and the great muscles were twitching and quivering. To my
unutterable horror, I perceived it was not Albertus Magnus.... It was Ombos! His breath came
in horrid little flutters, with seconds between each one, as if he had just come to life and
was not quite used to it. A dreadful viciousness and vitality shone from his green eyes, and
his demon-like mouth was twisted into a grin of unimaginable evil.

"'Gods don't grow in one night like mushrooms,' he said with a leer. (There was no mistake
about his voice--it was Ombos; the words rang through my brain as if they had been shouted.)
'You can't expect a statue to turn into a god in a breath, or to come down and skip about ...
it takes time and faith.'

"At that moment I must have gone mad. I snatched the heavy candelabra and with a howl of rage
I hurled it with all my force at his narrow leering eyes. It struck the solid bronze with a
terrific crash and fell at the base of the pedestal whereon Ombos had stood a moment before.

"Clayton rushed in at this juncture, and we went into the sitting-room. I saw him wipe his
forehead with the back of his hand.

"'He's been here again, sir,' he said. 'I was standing on the gravel path by the library, a
minute ago, when I saw him close by me in the bushes. He came across the water-meadow, I think.
And any way he made off back that way when I shouted at him. Begad, though, it'll be worth
a trifle to see who this rascal is, sir. I wonder what he's after. Not the common kind of assassin.
What?'

       *       *       *       *       *

"This was the climax; I felt that another such encounter would drive me raving mad. Somewhere
there must be a natural explanation; it was only a question of finding it. Among other things
it occurred to me that someone, for reason unknown, might be playing a series of practical
jokes upon me, but it was hard to believe a hoax of such malignant and serious intent. Besides,
it did not explain the death of Price which, I felt more and more convinced, was in some way
connected with the bronze statue. I felt it would be my own fault if I did not get some part
of the mystery cleared up soon. It was plain, too, that I must virtually act alone. The first
thing was to find a helper, and after casting about me I thought of a member of my company,
John Travers, who had lost two fingers at Charleroi at the first stage of the war. He was a
giant in stature, his muscular force would have warranted him in contesting a fall or two with
a full-grown lion.

"I wrote to Travers the same evening and his answer came a couple of days later, saying that
he would be down by the first train that he could catch. I said nothing in my letter about
the bronze statue, but merely mentioned that I feared a gang of thieves had marked my house
down, and I wanted his help to guard the place for a week or so.

"Well, Travers arrived. Armed with two new service rifles, we each in turn kept watch over
the statue, agreeing that a shot out of the window should warn the other, were any sudden danger
to arise.

