Familiar Studies of Men and Books

PREFACE BY WAY OF CRITICISM.

THESE studies are collected from the monthly press.  One appeared in the NEW QUARTERLY, one
in MACMILLAN'S, and the rest in the CORNHILL MAGAZINE.  To the CORNHILL I owe a double debt
of thanks; first, that I was received there in the very best society, and under the eye of
the very best of editors; and second, that the proprietors have allowed me to republish so
considerable an amount of copy.

These nine worthies have been brought together from many different ages and countries.  Not
the most erudite of men could be perfectly prepared to deal with so many and such various sides
of human life and manners.  To pass a true judgment upon Knox and Burns implies a grasp upon
the very deepest strain of thought in Scotland, - a country far more essentially different
from England than many parts of America; for, in a sense, the first of these men re-created
Scotland, and the second is its most essentially national production.  To treat fitly of Hugo
and Villon would involve yet wider knowledge, not only of a country foreign to the author by
race, history, and religion, but of the growth and liberties of art.  Of the two Americans,
Whitman and Thoreau, each is the type of something not so much realised as widely sought after
among the late generations of their countrymen; and to see them clearly in a nice relation
to the society that brought them forth, an author would require a large habit of life among
modern Americans.  As for Yoshida, I have already disclaimed responsibility; it was but my
hand that held the pen.

In truth, these are but the readings of a literary vagrant. One book led to another, one study
to another.  The first was published with trepidation.  Since no bones were broken, the second
was launched with greater confidence.  So, by insensible degrees, a young man of our generation
acquires, in his own eyes, a kind of roving judicial commission through the ages; and, having
once escaped the perils of the Freemans and the Furnivalls, sets himself up to right the wrongs
of universal history and criticism.  Now, it is one thing to write with enjoyment on a subject
while the story is hot in your mind from recent reading, coloured with recent prejudice; and
it is quite another business to put these writings coldly forth again in a bound volume.  We
are most of us attached to our opinions; that is one of the "natural affections" of which we
hear so much in youth; but few of us are altogether free from paralysing doubts and scruples.
For my part, I have a small idea of the degree of accuracy possible to man, and I feel sure
these studies teem with error.  One and all were written with genuine interest in the subject;
many, however, have been conceived and finished with imperfect knowledge; and all have lain,
from beginning to end, under the disadvantages inherent in this style of writing.

Of these disadvantages a word must here be said.  The writer of short studies, having to condense
in a few pages the events of a whole lifetime, and the effect on his own mind of many various
volumes, is bound, above all things, to make that condensation logical and striking.  For the
only justification of his writing at all is that he shall present a brief, reasoned, and memorable
view.  By the necessity of the case, all the more neutral circumstances are omitted from his
narrative; and that of itself, by the negative exaggeration of which I have spoken in the text,
lends to the matter in hand a certain false and specious glitter.  By the necessity of the
case, again, he is forced to view his subject throughout in a particular illumination, like
a studio artifice.  Like Hales with Pepys, he must nearly break his sitter's neck to get the
proper shadows on the portrait. It is from one side only that he has time to represent his
subject.  The side selected will either be the one most striking to himself, or the one most
obscured by controversy; and in both cases that will be the one most liable to strained and
sophisticated reading.  In a biography, this and that is displayed; the hero is seen at home,
playing the flute; the different tendencies of his work come, one after another, into notice;
and thus something like a true, general impression of the subject may at last be struck.  But
in the short study, the writer, having seized his "point of view," must keep his eye steadily
to that.  He seeks, perhaps, rather to differentiate than truly to characterise.  The proportions
of the sitter must be sacrificed to the proportions of the portrait; the lights are heightened,
the shadows overcharged; the chosen expression, continually forced, may degenerate at length
into a grimace; and we have at best something of a caricature, at worst a calumny. Hence, if
they be readable at all, and hang together by their own ends, the peculiar convincing force
of these brief representations.  They take so little a while to read, and yet in that little
while the subject is so repeatedly introduced in the same light and with the same expression,
that, by sheer force of repetition, that view is imposed upon the reader.  The two English
masters of the style, Macaulay and Carlyle, largely exemplify its dangers.  Carlyle, indeed,
had so much more depth and knowledge of the heart, his portraits of mankind are felt and rendered
with so much more poetic comprehension, and he, like his favourite Ram Dass, had a fire in
his belly so much more hotly burning than the patent reading lamp by which Macaulay studied,
that it seems at first sight hardly fair to bracket them together.  But the "point of view"
was imposed by Carlyle on the men he judged of in his writings with an austerity not only cruel
but almost stupid.  They are too often broken outright on the Procrustean bed; they are probably
always disfigured.  The rhetorical artifice of Macaulay is easily spied; it will take longer
to appreciate the moral bias of Carlyle.  So with all writers who insist on forcing some significance
from all that comes before them; and the writer of short studies is bound, by the necessity
of the case, to write entirely in that spirit.  What he cannot vivify he should omit.

Had it been possible to rewrite some of these papers, I hope I should have had the courage
to attempt it.  But it is not possible.  Short studies are, or should be, things woven like
a carpet, from which it is impossible to detach a strand. What is perverted has its place there
for ever, as a part of the technical means by which what is right has been presented.  It is
only possible to write another study, and then, with a new "point of view," would follow new
perversions and perhaps a fresh caricature.  Hence, it will be, at least, honest to offer a
few grains of salt to be taken with the text; and as some words of apology, addition, correction,
or amplification fall to be said on almost every study in the volume, it will be most simple
to run them over in their order.  But this must not be taken as a propitiatory offering to
the gods of shipwreck; I trust my cargo unreservedly to the chances of the sea; and do not,
by criticising myself, seek to disarm the wrath of other and less partial critics.

HUGO'S ROMANCES. - This is an instance of the "point of view."  The five romances studied with
a different purpose might have given different results, even with a critic so warmly interested
in their favour.  The great contemporary master of wordmanship, and indeed of all literary
arts and technicalities, had not unnaturally dazzled a beginner.  But it is best to dwell on
merits, for it is these that are most often overlooked.

BURNS. - I have left the introductory sentences on Principal Shairp, partly to explain my own
paper, which was merely supplemental to his amiable but imperfect book, partly because that
book appears to me truly misleading both as to the character and the genius of Burns.  This
seems ungracious, but Mr. Shairp has himself to blame; so good a Wordsworthian was out of character
upon that stage.

This half apology apart, nothing more falls to be said except upon a remark called forth by
my study in the columns of a literary Review.  The exact terms in which that sheet disposed
of Burns I cannot now recall; but they were to this effect - that Burns was a bad man, the
impure vehicle of fine verses; and that this was the view to which all criticism tended.  Now
I knew, for my own part, that it was with the profoundest pity, but with a growing esteem,
that I studied the man's desperate efforts to do right; and the more I reflected, the stranger
it appeared to me that any thinking being should feel otherwise.  The complete letters shed,
indeed, a light on the depths to which Burns had sunk in his character of Don Juan, but they
enhance in the same proportion the hopeless nobility of his marrying Jean.  That I ought to
have stated this more noisily I now see; but that any one should fail to see it for himself,
is to me a thing both incomprehensible and worthy of open scorn.  If Burns, on the facts dealt
with in this study, is to be called a bad man, I question very much whether either I or the
writer in the Review have ever encountered what it would be fair to call a good one.

Yet it is undeniable that much anger and distress is raised in many quarters by the least attempt
to state plainly, what every one well knows, of Burns's profligacy, and of the fatal consequences
of his marriage.  And for this there are perhaps two subsidiary reasons.  For, first, there
is, in our drunken land, a certain privilege extended to drunkenness.  In Scotland, in particular,
it is almost respectable, above all when compared with any "irregularity between the sexes."
The selfishness of the one, so much more gross in essence, is so much less immediately conspicuous
in its results that our demiurgeous Mrs. Grundy smiles apologetically on its victims. It is
often said - I have heard it with these ears - that drunkenness "may lead to vice."  Now I
did not think it at all proved that Burns was what is called a drunkard; and I was obliged
to dwell very plainly on the irregularity and the too frequent vanity and meanness of his relations
to women. Hence, in the eyes of many, my study was a step towards the demonstration of Burns's
radical badness.  To hint that Burns's marriage had an evil influence is, with this class,
to deny the moral law.  Yet such is the fact.  It was bravely done; but he had presumed too
far on his strength.  One after another the lights of his life went out, and he fell from circle
to circle to the dishonoured sickbed of the end.  And surely for any one that has a thing to
call a soul he shines out tenfold more nobly in the failure of that frantic effort to do right,
than if he had turned on his heel with Worldly Wiseman, married a congenial spouse, and lived
orderly and died reputably an old man.  It is his chief title that he refrained from "the wrong
that amendeth wrong."  But the common, trashy mind of our generation is still aghast, like
the Jews of old, at any word of an unsuccessful virtue.  Job has been written and read; the
tower of Siloam fell nineteen hundred years ago; yet we have still to desire a little Christianity,
or, failing that, a little even of that rude, old, Norse nobility of soul, which saw virtue
and vice alike go unrewarded, and was yet not shaken in its faith.

WALT WHITMAN. - This is a case of a second difficulty which lies continually before the writer
of critical studies: that he has to mediate between the author whom he loves and the public
who are certainly indifferent and frequently averse. Many articles had been written on this
notable man.  One after another had leaned, in my eyes, either to praise or blame unduly. 
In the last case, they helped to blindfold our fastidious public to an inspiring writer; in
the other, by an excess of unadulterated praise, they moved the more candid to revolt.  I was
here on the horns of a dilemma; and between these horns I squeezed myself with perhaps some
loss to the substance of the paper.  Seeing so much in Whitman that was merely ridiculous,
as well as so much more that was unsurpassed in force and fitness, - seeing the true prophet
doubled, as I thought, in places with the Bull in a China Shop, - it appeared best to steer
a middle course, and to laugh with the scorners when I thought they had any excuse, while I
made haste to rejoice with the rejoicers over what is imperishably good, lovely, human, or
divine, in his extraordinary poems.  That was perhaps the right road; yet I cannot help feeling
that in this attempt to trim my sails between an author whom I love and honour and a public
too averse to recognise his merit, I have been led into a tone unbecoming from one of my stature
to one of Whitman's.  But the good and the great man will go on his way not vexed with my little
shafts of merriment.  He, first of any one, will understand how, in the attempt to explain
him credibly to Mrs. Grundy, I have been led into certain airs of the man of the world, which
are merely ridiculous in me, and were not intentionally discourteous to himself.  But there
is a worse side to the question; for in my eagerness to be all things to all men, I am afraid
I may have sinned against proportion. It will be enough to say here that Whitman's faults are
few and unimportant when they are set beside his surprising merits.  I had written another
paper full of gratitude for the help that had been given me in my life, full of enthusiasm
for the intrinsic merit of the poems, and conceived in the noisiest extreme of youthful eloquence.
The present study was a rifacimento.  From it, with the design already mentioned, and in a
fit of horror at my old excess, the big words and emphatic passages were ruthlessly excised.
But this sort of prudence is frequently its own punishment; along with the exaggeration, some
of the truth is sacrificed; and the result is cold, constrained, and grudging.  In short, I
might almost everywhere have spoken more strongly than I did.

THOREAU. - Here is an admirable instance of the "point of view" forced throughout, and of too
earnest reflection on imperfect facts. Still it was as a writer that I had made his acquaintance;
I took him on his own explicit terms; and when I learned details of his life, they were, by
the nature of the case and my own PARTI-PRIS, read even with a certain violence in terms of
his writings.  There could scarce be a perversion more justifiable than that; yet it was still
a perversion.  The study indeed, raised so much ire in the breast of Dr. Japp (H. A. Page),
Thoreau's sincere and learned disciple, that had either of us been men, I please myself with
thinking, of less temper and justice, the difference might have made us enemies instead of
making us friends.  To him who knew the man from the inside, many of my statements sounded
like inversions made on purpose; and yet when we came to talk of them together, and he had
understood how I was looking at the man through the books, while he had long since learned
to read the books through the man, I believe he understood the spirit in which I had been led
astray.

On two most important points, Dr. Japp added to my knowledge, and with the same blow fairly
demolished that part of my criticism.  First, if Thoreau were content to dwell by Walden Pond,
it was not merely with designs of self-improvement, but to serve mankind in the highest sense.
Hither came the fleeing slave; thence was he despatched along the road to freedom.  That shanty
in the woods was a station in the great Underground Railroad; that adroit and philosophic solitary
was an ardent worker, soul and body, in that so much more than honourable movement, which,
if atonement were possible for nations, should have gone far to wipe away the guilt of slavery.
But in history sin always meets with condign punishment; the generation passes, the offence
remains, and the innocent must suffer.  No underground railroad could atone for slavery, even
as no bills in Parliament can redeem the ancient wrongs of Ireland.  But here at least is a
new light shed on the Walden episode.

Second, it appears, and the point is capital, that Thoreau was once fairly and manfully in
love, and, with perhaps too much aping of the angel, relinquished the woman to his brother.
Even though the brother were like to die of it, we have not yet heard the last opinion of the
woman.  But be that as it may, we have here the explanation of the "rarefied and freezing air"
in which I complained that he had taught himself to breathe.  Reading the man through the books,
I took his professions in good faith.  He made a dupe of me, even as he was seeking to make
a dupe of himself, wresting philosophy to the needs of his own sorrow.  But in the light of
this new fact, those pages, seemingly so cold, are seen to be alive with feeling.  What appeared
to be a lack of interest in the philosopher turns out to have been a touching insincerity of
the man to his own heart; and that fine-spun airy theory of friendship, so devoid, as I complained,
of any quality of flesh and blood, a mere anodyne to lull his pains. The most temperate of
living critics once marked a passage of my own with a cross ar d the words, "This seems nonsense."
It not only seemed; it was so.  It was a private bravado of my own, which I had so often repeated
to keep up my spirits, that I had grown at last wholly to believe it, and had ended by setting
it down as a contribution to the theory of life. So with the more icy parts of this philosophy
of Thoreau's. He was affecting the Spartanism he had not; and the old sentimental wound still
bled afresh, while he deceived himself with reasons.

Thoreau's theory, in short, was one thing and himself another: of the first, the reader will
find what I believe to be a pretty faithful statement and a fairly just criticism in the study;
of the second he will find but a contorted shadow. So much of the man as fitted nicely with
his doctrines, in the photographer's phrase, came out.  But that large part which lay outside
and beyond, for which he had found or sought no formula, on which perhaps his philosophy even
looked askance, is wanting in my study, as it was wanting in the guide I followed.  In some
ways a less serious writer, in all ways a nobler man, the true Thoreau still remains to be
depicted.

VILLON. - I am tempted to regret that I ever wrote on this subject, not merely because the
paper strikes me as too picturesque by half, but because I regarded Villon as a bad fellow.
Others still think well of him, and can find beautiful and human traits where I saw nothing
but artistic evil; and by the principle of the art, those should have written of the man, and
not I.  Where you see no good, silence is the best.  Though this penitence comes too late,
it may be well, at least, to give it expression.

The spirit of Villon is still living in the literature of France.  Fat Peg is oddly of a piece
with the work of Zola, the Goncourts, and the infinitely greater Flaubert; and, while similar
in ugliness, still surpasses them in native power.  The old author, breaking with an ECLAT
DE VOIX, out of his tongue-tied century, has not yet been touched on his own ground, and still
gives us the most vivid and shocking impression of reality.  Even if that were not worth doing
at all, it would be worth doing as well as he has done it; for the pleasure we take in the
author's skill repays us, or at least reconciles us to the baseness of his attitude.  Fat Peg
(LA GROSSE MARGOT) is typical of much; it is a piece of experience that has nowhere else been
rendered into literature; and a kind of gratitude for the author's plainness mingles, as we
read, with the nausea proper to the business.  I shall quote here a verse of an old students'
song, worth laying side by side with Villon's startling ballade.  This singer, also, had an
unworthy mistress, but he did not choose to share the wages of dishonour; and it is thus, with
both wit and pathos, that he laments her fall:-

Nunc plango florem AEtatis tenerae Nitidiorem Veneris sidere: Tunc columbinam Mentis dulcedinem,
Nunc serpentinam Amaritudinem. Verbo rogantes Removes ostio, Munera dantes Foves cubiculo,
Illos abire praecipis A quibus nihil accipis, Caecos claudosque recipis, Viros illustres decipis
Cum melle venenosa. (1)

(1) GAUDEAMUS: CARMINA VAGORUM SELECTA.  Leipsic.  Trubner. 1879.

But our illustrious writer of ballades it was unnecessary to deceive; it was the flight of
beauty alone, not that of honesty or honour, that he lamented in his song; and the nameless
mediaeval vagabond has the best of the comparison.

There is now a Villon Society in England; and Mr. John Payne has translated him entirely into
English, a task of unusual difficulty.  I regret to find that Mr. Payne and I are not always
at one as to the author's meaning; in such cases I am bound to suppose that he is in the right,
although the weakness of the flesh withholds me from anything beyond a formal submission. 
He is now upon a larger venture, promising us at last that complete Arabian Nights to which
we have all so long looked forward.

CHARLES OF ORLEANS. - Perhaps I have done scanty justice to the charm of the old Duke's verses,
and certainly he is too much treated as a fool.  The period is not sufficiently remembered.
What that period was, to what a blank of imbecility the human mind had fallen, can only be
known to those who have waded in the chronicles.  Excepting Comines and La Salle and Villon,
I have read no author who did not appal me by his torpor; and even the trial of Joan of Arc,
conducted as it was by chosen clerks, bears witness to a dreary, sterile folly, - a twilight
of the mind peopled with childish phantoms.  In relation to his contemporaries, Charles seems
quite a lively character.

It remains for me to acknowledge the kindness of Mr. Henry Pyne, who, immediately on the appearance
of the study, sent me his edition of the Debate between the Heralds: a courtesy from the expert
to the amateur only too uncommon in these days.

KNOX. - Knox, the second in order of interest among the reformers, lies dead and buried in
the works of the learned and unreadable M'Crie.  It remains for some one to break the tomb
and bring him forth, alive again and breathing, in a human book.  With the best intentions
in the world, I have only added two more flagstones, ponderous like their predecessors, to
the mass of obstruction that buries the reformer from the world; I have touched him in my turn
with that "mace of death," which Carlyle has attributed to Dryasdust; and my two dull papers
are, in the matter of dulness, worthy additions to the labours of M'Crie.  Yet I believe they
are worth reprinting in the interest of the next biographer of Knox.  I trust his book may
be a masterpiece; and I indulge the hope that my two studies may lend him a hint or perhaps
spare him a delay in its composition.

Of the PEPYS I can say nothing; for it has been too recently through my hands; and I still
retain some of the heat of composition.  Yet it may serve as a text for the last remark I have
to offer.  To Pepys I think I have been amply just; to the others, to Burns, Thoreau, Whitman,
Charles of Orleans, even Villon, I have found myself in the retrospect ever too grudging of
praise, ever too disrespectful in manner.  It is not easy to see why I should have been most
liberal to the man of least pretensions.  Perhaps some cowardice withheld me from the proper
warmth of tone; perhaps it is easier to be just to those nearer us in rank of mind.  Such at
least is the fact, which other critics may explain.  For these were all men whom, for one reason
or another, I loved; or when I did not love the men, my love was the greater to their books.
I had read them and lived with them; for months they were continually in my thoughts; I seemed
to rejoice in their joys and to sorrow with them in their griefs; and behold, when I came to
write of them, my tone was sometimes hardly courteous and seldom wholly just.

R. L. S.

CONTENTS.

I.    VICTOR HUGO'S ROMANCES II.   SOME ASPECTS OF ROBERT BURNS III.  WALT WHITMAN IV.   HENRY
DAVID THOREAU: HIS CHARACTER AND OPINIONS V.    YOSHIDA-TORAJIRO VI.   FRANCOIS VILLON, STUDENT,
POET, AND HOUSE-BREAKER VII.  CHARLES OF ORLEANS VIII. SAMUEL PEPYS IX.   JOHN KNOX AND WOMEN

CHAPTER I - VICTOR HUGO'S ROMANCES

Apres le roman pittoresque mais prosaique de Walter Scott il lestera un autre roman a creer,
plus beau et plus complet encore selon nous.  C'est le roman, a la fois drame et epopee, pittoresque
mais poetique, reel mais ideal, vrai mais grand, qui enchassera Walter Scott dans Homere. -
Victor Hugo on QUENTIN DURWARD.

VICTOR HUGO'S romances occupy an important position in the history of literature; many innovations,
timidly made elsewhere, have in them been carried boldly out to their last consequences; much
that was indefinite in literary tendencies has attained to definite maturity; many things have
come to a point and been distinguished one from the other; and it is only in the last romance
of all, QUATRE VINGT TREIZE, that this culmination is most perfect.  This is in the nature
of things.  Men who are in any way typical of a stage of progress may be compared more justly
to the hand upon the dial of the clock, which continues to advance as it indicates, than to
the stationary milestone, which is only the measure of what is past.  The movement is not arrested.
That significant something by which the work of such a man differs from that of his predecessors,
goes on disengaging itself and becoming more and more articulate and cognisable. The same principle
of growth that carried his first book beyond the books of previous writers, carries his last
book beyond his first.  And just as the most imbecile production of any literary age gives
us sometimes the very clue to comprehension we have sought long and vainly in contemporary
masterpieces, so it may be the very weakest of an author's books that, coming in the sequel
of many others, enables us at last to get hold of what underlies the whole of them - of that
spinal marrow of significance that unites the work of his life into something organic and rational.
This is what has been done by QUATRE VINGT TREIZE for the earlier romances of Victor Hugo,
and, through them, for a whole division of modern literature.  We have here the legitimate
continuation of a long and living literary tradition; and hence, so far, its explanation. 
When many lines diverge from each other in direction so slightly as to confuse the eye, we
know that we have only to produce them to make the chaos plain: this is continually so in literary
history; and we shall best understand the importance of Victor Hugo's romances if we think
of them as some such prolongation of one of the main lines of literary tendency.

When we compare the novels of Walter Scott with those of the man of genius who preceded him,
and whom he delighted to honour as a master in the art - I mean Henry Fielding - we shall be
somewhat puzzled, at the first moment, to state the difference that there is between these
two.  Fielding has as much human science; has a far firmer hold upon the tiller of his story;
has a keen sense of character, which he draws (and Scott often does so too) in a rather abstract
and academical manner; and finally, is quite as humorous and quite as good- humoured as the
great Scotchman.  With all these points of resemblance between the men, it is astonishing that
their work should be so different.  The fact is, that the English novel was looking one way
and seeking one set of effects in the hands of Fielding; and in the hands of Scott it was looking
eagerly in all ways and searching for all the effects that by any possibility it could utilise.
The difference between these two men marks a great enfranchisement.  With Scott the Romantic
movement, the movement of an extended curiosity and an enfranchised imagination, has begun.
This is a trite thing to say; but trite things are often very indefinitely comprehended: and
this enfranchisement, in as far as it regards the technical change that came over modern prose
romance, has never perhaps been explained with any clearness.

