 Nor is it adverse to regularity of morals, for good morals contribute
to public tranquillity and are favorable to industry. It may even be frequently combined with
a species of religious morality: men wish to be as well off as they can in this world, without
foregoing their chance of another. Some physical gratifications cannot be indulged in without
crime; from such they strictly abstain. The enjoyment of others is sanctioned by religion and
morality; to these the heart, the imagination, and life itself are unreservedly given up; till,
in snatching at these lesser gifts, men lose sight of those more precious possessions which
constitute the glory and the greatness of mankind. The reproach I address to the principle
of equality, is not that it leads men away in the pursuit of forbidden enjoyments, but that
it absorbs them wholly in quest of those which are allowed. By these means, a kind of virtuous
materialism may ultimately be established in the world, which would not corrupt, but enervate
the soul, and noiselessly unbend its springs of action.

Chapter XII: Causes Of Fanatical Enthusiasm In Some Americans

Although the desire of acquiring the good things of this world is the prevailing passion of
the American people, certain momentary outbreaks occur, when their souls seem suddenly to burst
the bonds of matter by which they are restrained, and to soar impetuously towards heaven. In
all the States of the Union, but especially in the half-peopled country of the Far West, wandering
preachers may be met with who hawk about the word of God from place to place. Whole families--old
men, women, and children--cross rough passes and untrodden wilds, coming from a great distance,
to join a camp-meeting, where they totally forget for several days and nights, in listening
to these discourses, the cares of business and even the most urgent wants of the body. Here
and there, in the midst of American society, you meet with men, full of a fanatical and almost
wild enthusiasm, which hardly exists in Europe. From time to time strange sects arise, which
endeavor to strike out extraordinary paths to eternal happiness. Religious insanity is very
common in the United States.

Nor ought these facts to surprise us. It was not man who implanted in himself the taste for
what is infinite and the love of what is immortal: those lofty instincts are not the offspring
of his capricious will; their steadfast foundation is fixed in human nature, and they exist
in spite of his efforts. He may cross and distort them--destroy them he cannot. The soul has
wants which must be satisfied; and whatever pains be taken to divert it from itself, it soon
grows weary, restless, and disquieted amidst the enjoyments of sense. If ever the faculties
of the great majority of mankind were exclusively bent upon the pursuit of material objects,
it might be anticipated that an amazing reaction would take place in the souls of some men.
They would drift at large in the world of spirits, for fear of remaining shackled by the close
bondage of the body.

It is not then wonderful if, in the midst of a community whose thoughts tend earthward, a small
number of individuals are to be found who turn their looks to heaven. I should be surprised
if mysticism did not soon make some advance amongst a people solely engaged in promoting its
own worldly welfare. It is said that the deserts of the Thebaid were peopled by the persecutions
of the emperors and the massacres of the Circus; I should rather say that it was by the luxuries
of Rome and the Epicurean philosophy of Greece. If their social condition, their present circumstances,
and their laws did not confine the minds of the Americans so closely to the pursuit of worldly
welfare, it is probable that they would display more reserve and more experience whenever their
attention is turned to things immaterial, and that they would check themselves without difficulty.
But they feel imprisoned within bounds which they will apparently never be allowed to pass.
As soon as they have passed these bounds, their minds know not where to fix themselves, and
they often rush unrestrained beyond the range of common-sense.

Chapter XIII: Causes Of The Restless Spirit Of Americans In The Midst Of Their Prosperity

In certain remote corners of the Old World you may still sometimes stumble upon a small district
which seems to have been forgotten amidst the general tumult, and to have remained stationary
whilst everything around it was in motion. The inhabitants are for the most part extremely
ignorant and poor; they take no part in the business of the country, and they are frequently
oppressed by the government; yet their countenances are generally placid, and their spirits
light. In America I saw the freest and most enlightened men, placed in the happiest circumstances
which the world affords: it seemed to me as if a cloud habitually hung upon their brow, and
I thought them serious and almost sad even in their pleasures. The chief reason of this contrast
is that the former do not think of the ills they endure--the latter are forever brooding over
advantages they do not possess. It is strange to see with what feverish ardor the Americans
pursue their own welfare; and to watch the vague dread that constantly torments them lest they
should not have chosen the shortest path which may lead to it. A native of the United States
clings to this world's goods as if he were certain never to die; and he is so hasty in grasping
at all within his reach, that one would suppose he was constantly afraid of not living long
enough to enjoy them. He clutches everything, he holds nothing fast, but soon loosens his grasp
to pursue fresh gratifications.

In the United States a man builds a house to spend his latter years in it, and he sells it
before the roof is on: he plants a garden, and lets it just as the trees are coming into bearing:
he brings a field into tillage, and leaves other men to gather the crops: he embraces a profession,
and gives it up: he settles in a place, which he soon afterwards leaves, to carry his changeable
longings elsewhere. If his private affairs leave him any leisure, he instantly plunges into
the vortex of politics; and if at the end of a year of unremitting labor he finds he has a
few days' vacation, his eager curiosity whirls him over the vast extent of the United States,
and he will travel fifteen hundred miles in a few days, to shake off his happiness. Death at
length overtakes him, but it is before he is weary of his bootless chase of that complete felicity
which is forever on the wing.

At first sight there is something surprising in this strange unrest of so many happy men, restless
in the midst of abundance. The spectacle itself is however as old as the world; the novelty
is to see a whole people furnish an exemplification of it. Their taste for physical gratifications
must be regarded as the original source of that secret inquietude which the actions of the
Americans betray, and of that inconstancy of which they afford fresh examples every day. He
who has set his heart exclusively upon the pursuit of worldly welfare is always in a hurry,
for he has but a limited time at his disposal to reach it, to grasp it, and to enjoy it. The
recollection of the brevity of life is a constant spur to him. Besides the good things which
he possesses, he every instant fancies a thousand others which death will prevent him from
trying if he does not try them soon. This thought fills him with anxiety, fear, and regret,
and keeps his mind in ceaseless trepidation, which leads him perpetually to change his plans
and his abode. If in addition to the taste for physical well-being a social condition be superadded,
in which the laws and customs make no condition permanent, here is a great additional stimulant
to this restlessness of temper. Men will then be seen continually to change their track, for
fear of missing the shortest cut to happiness. It may readily be conceived that if men, passionately
bent upon physical gratifications, desire eagerly, they are also easily discouraged: as their
ultimate object is to enjoy, the means to reach that object must be prompt and easy, or the
trouble of acquiring the gratification would be greater than the gratification itself. Their
prevailing frame of mind then is at once ardent and relaxed, violent and enervated. Death is
often less dreaded than perseverance in continuous efforts to one end.

The equality of conditions leads by a still straighter road to several of the effects which
I have here described. When all the privileges of birth and fortune are abolished, when all
professions are accessible to all, and a man's own energies may place him at the top of any
one of them, an easy and unbounded career seems open to his ambition, and he will readily persuade
himself that he is born to no vulgar destinies. But this is an erroneous notion, which is corrected
by daily experience. The same equality which allows every citizen to conceive these lofty hopes,
renders all the citizens less able to realize them: it circumscribes their powers on every
side, whilst it gives freer scope to their desires. Not only are they themselves powerless,
but they are met at every step by immense obstacles, which they did not at first perceive.
They have swept away the privileges of some of their fellow-creatures which stood in their
way, but they have opened the door to universal competition: the barrier has changed its shape
rather than its position. When men are nearly alike, and all follow the same track, it is very
difficult for any one individual to walk quick and cleave a way through the dense throng which
surrounds and presses him. This constant strife between the propensities springing from the
equality of conditions and the means it supplies to satisfy them, harasses and wearies the mind.

It is possible to conceive men arrived at a degree of freedom which should completely content
them; they would then enjoy their independence without anxiety and without impatience. But
men will never establish any equality with which they can be contented. Whatever efforts a
people may make, they will never succeed in reducing all the conditions of society to a perfect
level; and even if they unhappily attained that absolute and complete depression, the inequality
of minds would still remain, which, coming directly from the hand of God, will forever escape
the laws of man. However democratic then the social state and the political constitution of
a people may be, it is certain that every member of the community will always find out several
points about him which command his own position; and we may foresee that his looks will be
doggedly fixed in that direction. When inequality of conditions is the common law of society,
the most marked inequalities do not strike the eye: when everything is nearly on the same level,
the slightest are marked enough to hurt it. Hence the desire of equality always becomes more
insatiable in proportion as equality is more complete.

Amongst democratic nations men easily attain a certain equality of conditions: they can never
attain the equality they desire. It perpetually retires from before them, yet without hiding
itself from their sight, and in retiring draws them on. At every moment they think they are
about to grasp it; it escapes at every moment from their hold. They are near enough to see
its charms, but too far off to enjoy them; and before they have fully tasted its delights they
die. To these causes must be attributed that strange melancholy which oftentimes will haunt
the inhabitants of democratic countries in the midst of their abundance, and that disgust at
life which sometimes seizes upon them in the midst of calm and easy circumstances. Complaints
are made in France that the number of suicides increases; in America suicide is rare, but insanity
is said to be more common than anywhere else. These are all different symptoms of the same
disease. The Americans do not put an end to their lives, however disquieted they may be, because
their religion forbids it; and amongst them materialism may be said hardly to exist, notwithstanding
the general passion for physical gratification. The will resists--reason frequently gives way.
In democratic ages enjoyments are more intense than in the ages of aristocracy, and especially
the number of those who partake in them is larger: but, on the other hand, it must be admitted
that man's hopes and his desires are oftener blasted, the soul is more stricken and perturbed,
and care itself more keen.

Chapter XIV: Taste For Physical Gratifications United In America To Love Of Freedom And Attention
To Public Affairs

When a democratic state turns to absolute monarchy, the activity which was before directed
to public and to private affairs is all at once centred upon the latter: the immediate consequence
is, for some time, great physical prosperity; but this impulse soon slackens, and the amount
of productive industry is checked. I know not if a single trading or manufacturing people can
be cited, from the Tyrians down to the Florentines and the English, who were not a free people
also. There is therefore a close bond and necessary relation between these two elements--freedom
and productive industry. This proposition is generally true of all nations, but especially
of democratic nations. I have already shown that men who live in ages of equality continually
require to form associations in order to procure the things they covet; and, on the other hand,
I have shown how great political freedom improves and diffuses the art of association. Freedom,
in these ages, is therefore especially favorable to the production of wealth; nor is it difficult
to perceive that despotism is especially adverse to the same result. The nature of despotic
power in democratic ages is not to be fierce or cruel, but minute and meddling. Despotism of
this kind, though it does not trample on humanity, is directly opposed to the genius of commerce
and the pursuits of industry.

Thus the men of democratic ages require to be free in order more readily to procure those physical
enjoyments for which they are always longing. It sometimes happens, however, that the excessive
taste they conceive for these same enjoyments abandons them to the first master who appears.
The passion for worldly welfare then defeats itself, and, without perceiving it, throws the
object of their desires to a greater distance.

There is, indeed, a most dangerous passage in the history of a democratic people. When the
taste for physical gratifications amongst such a people has grown more rapidly than their education
and their experience of free institutions, the time will come when men are carried away, and
lose all self-restraint, at the sight of the new possessions they are about to lay hold upon.
In their intense and exclusive anxiety to make a fortune, they lose sight of the close connection
which exists between the private fortune of each of them and the prosperity of all. It is not
necessary to do violence to such a people in order to strip them of the rights they enjoy;
they themselves willingly loosen their hold. The discharge of political duties appears to them
to be a troublesome annoyance, which diverts them from their occupations and business. If they
be required to elect representatives, to support the Government by personal service, to meet
on public business, they have no time--they cannot waste their precious time in useless engagements:
such idle amusements are unsuited to serious men who are engaged with the more important interests
of life. These people think they are following the principle of self-interest, but the idea
they entertain of that principle is a very rude one; and the better to look after what they
call their business, they neglect their chief business, which is to remain their own masters.

As the citizens who work do not care to attend to public business, and as the class which might
devote its leisure to these duties has ceased to exist, the place of the Government is, as
it were, unfilled. If at that critical moment some able and ambitious man grasps the supreme
power, he will find the road to every kind of usurpation open before him. If he does but attend
for some time to the material prosperity of the country, no more will be demanded of him. Above
all he must insure public tranquillity: men who are possessed by the passion of physical gratification
generally find out that the turmoil of freedom disturbs their welfare, before they discover
how freedom itself serves to promote it. If the slightest rumor of public commotion intrudes
into the petty pleasures of private life, they are aroused and alarmed by it. The fear of anarchy
perpetually haunts them, and they are always ready to fling away their freedom at the first
disturbance.

I readily admit that public tranquillity is a great good; but at the same time I cannot forget
that all nations have been enslaved by being kept in good order. Certainly it is not to be
inferred that nations ought to despise public tranquillity; but that state ought not to content
them. A nation which asks nothing of its government but the maintenance of order is already
a slave at heart--the slave of its own well-being, awaiting but the hand that will bind it.
By such a nation the despotism of faction is not less to be dreaded than the despotism of an
individual. When the bulk of the community is engrossed by private concerns, the smallest parties
need not despair of getting the upper hand in public affairs. At such times it is not rare
to see upon the great stage of the world, as we see at our theatres, a multitude represented
by a few players, who alone speak in the name of an absent or inattentive crowd: they alone
are in action whilst all are stationary; they regulate everything by their own caprice; they
change the laws, and tyrannize at will over the manners of the country; and then men wonder
to see into how small a number of weak and worthless hands a great people may fall.

Hitherto the Americans have fortunately escaped all the perils which I have just pointed out;
and in this respect they are really deserving of admiration. Perhaps there is no country in
the world where fewer idle men are to be met with than in America, or where all who work are
more eager to promote their own welfare. But if the passion of the Americans for physical gratifications
is vehement, at least it is not indiscriminating; and reason, though unable to restrain it,
still directs its course. An American attends to his private concerns as if he were alone in
the world, and the next minute he gives himself up to the common weal as if he had forgotten
them. At one time he seems animated by the most selfish cupidity, at another by the most lively
patriotism. The human heart cannot be thus divided. The inhabitants of the United States alternately
display so strong and so similar a passion for their own welfare and for their freedom, that
it may be supposed that these passions are united and mingled in some part of their character.
And indeed the Americans believe their freedom to be the best instrument and surest safeguard
of their welfare: they are attached to the one by the other. They by no means think that they
are not called upon to take a part in the public weal; they believe, on the contrary, that
their chief business is to secure for themselves a government which will allow them to acquire
the things they covet, and which will not debar them from the peaceful enjoyment of those possessions
which they have acquired.

Chapter XV: That Religious Belief Sometimes Turns The Thoughts Of The Americans To Immaterial
Pleasures

In the United States, on the seventh day of every week, the trading and working life of the
nation seems suspended; all noises cease; a deep tranquillity, say rather the solemn calm of
meditation, succeeds the turmoil of the week, and the soul resumes possession and contemplation
of itself. Upon this day the marts of traffic are deserted; every member of the community,
accompanied by his children, goes to church, where he listens to strange language which would
seem unsuited to his ear. He is told of the countless evils caused by pride and covetousness:
he is reminded of the necessity of checking his desires, of the finer pleasures which belong
to virtue alone, and of the true happiness which attends it. On his return home, he does not
turn to the ledgers of his calling, but he opens the book of Holy Scripture; there he meets
with sublime or affecting descriptions of the greatness and goodness of the Creator, of the
infinite magnificence of the handiwork of God, of the lofty destinies of man, of his duties,
and of his immortal privileges. Thus it is that the American at times steals an hour from himself;
and laying aside for a while the petty passions which agitate his life, and the ephemeral interests
which engross it, he strays at once into an ideal world, where all is great, eternal, and pure.

I have endeavored to point out in another part of this work the causes to which the maintenance
of the political institutions of the Americans is attributable; and religion appeared to be
one of the most prominent amongst them. I am now treating of the Americans in an individual
capacity, and I again observe that religion is not less useful to each citizen than to the
whole State. The Americans show, by their practice, that they feel the high necessity of imparting
morality to democratic communities by means of religion. What they think of themselves in this
respect is a truth of which every democratic nation ought to be thoroughly persuaded.

I do not doubt that the social and political constitution of a people predisposes them to adopt
a certain belief and certain tastes, which afterwards flourish without difficulty amongst them;
whilst the same causes may divert a people from certain opinions and propensities, without
any voluntary effort, and, as it were, without any distinct consciousness, on their part. The
whole art of the legislator is correctly to discern beforehand these natural inclinations of
communities of men, in order to know whether they should be assisted, or whether it may not
be necessary to check them. For the duties incumbent on the legislator differ at different
times; the goal towards which the human race ought ever to be tending is alone stationary;
the means of reaching it are perpetually to be varied.

If I had been born in an aristocratic age, in the midst of a nation where the hereditary wealth
of some, and the irremediable penury of others, should equally divert men from the idea of
bettering their condition, and hold the soul as it were in a state of torpor fixed on the contemplation
of another world, I should then wish that it were possible for me to rouse that people to a
sense of their wants; I should seek to discover more rapid and more easy means for satisfying
the fresh desires which I might have awakened; and, directing the most strenuous efforts of
the human mind to physical pursuits, I should endeavor to stimulate it to promote the well-being
of man. If it happened that some men were immoderately incited to the pursuit of riches, and
displayed an excessive liking for physical gratifications, I should not be alarmed; these peculiar
symptoms would soon be absorbed in the general aspect of the people.

The attention of the legislators of democracies is called to other cares. Give democratic nations
education and freedom, and leave them alone. They will soon learn to draw from this world all
the benefits which it can afford; they will improve each of the useful arts, and will day by
day render life more comfortable, more convenient, and more easy. Their social condition naturally
urges them in this direction; I do not fear that they will slacken their course.

But whilst man takes delight in this honest and lawful pursuit of his wellbeing, it is to be
apprehended that he may in the end lose the use of his sublimest faculties; and that whilst
he is busied in improving all around him, he may at length degrade himself. Here, and here
only, does the peril lie. It should therefore be the unceasing object of the legislators of
democracies, and of all the virtuous and enlightened men who live there, to raise the souls
of their fellow-citizens, and keep them lifted up towards heaven. It is necessary that all
who feel an interest in the future destinies of democratic society should unite, and that all
should make joint and continual efforts to diffuse the love of the infinite, a sense of greatness,
and a love of pleasures not of earth. If amongst the opinions of a democratic people any of
those pernicious theories exist which tend to inculcate that all perishes with the body, let
men by whom such theories are professed be marked as the natural foes of such a people.

The materialists are offensive to me in many respects; their doctrines I hold to be pernicious,
and I am disgusted at their arrogance. If their system could be of any utility to man, it would
seem to be by giving him a modest opinion of himself. But these reasoners show that it is not
so; and when they think they have said enough to establish that they are brutes, they show
themselves as proud as if they had demonstrated that they are gods. Materialism is, amongst
all nations, a dangerous disease of the human mind; but it is more especially to be dreaded
amongst a democratic people, because it readily amalgamates with that vice which is most familiar
to the heart under such circumstances. Democracy encourages a taste for physical gratification:
this taste, if it become excessive, soon disposes men to believe that all is matter only; and
materialism, in turn, hurries them back with mad impatience to these same delights: such is
the fatal circle within which democratic nations are driven round. It were well that they should
see the danger and hold back.

Most religions are only general, simple, and practical means of teaching men the doctrine of
the immortality of the soul. That is the greatest benefit which a democratic people derives,
from its belief, and hence belief is more necessary to such a people than to all others. When
therefore any religion has struck its roots deep into a democracy, beware lest you disturb
them; but rather watch it carefully, as the most precious bequest of aristocratic ages. Seek
not to supersede the old religious opinions of men by new ones; lest in the passage from one
faith to another, the soul being left for a while stripped of all belief, the love of physical
gratifications should grow upon it and fill it wholly.

The doctrine of metempsychosis is assuredly not more rational than that of materialism; nevertheless
if it were absolutely necessary that a democracy should choose one of the two, I should not
hesitate to decide that the community would run less risk of being brutalized by believing
that the soul of man will pass into the carcass of a hog, than by believing that the soul of
man is nothing at all. The belief in a supersensual and immortal principle, united for a time
to matter, is so indispensable to man's greatness, that its effects are striking even when
it is not united to the doctrine of future reward and punishment; and when it holds no more
than that after death the divine principle contained in man is absorbed in the Deity, or transferred
to animate the frame of some other creature. Men holding so imperfect a belief will still consider
the body as the secondary and inferior portion of their nature, and they will despise it even
whilst they yield to its influence; whereas they have a natural esteem and secret admiration
for the immaterial part of man, even though they sometimes refuse to submit to its dominion.
That is enough to give a lofty cast to their opinions and their tastes, and to bid them tend
with no interested motive, and as it were by impulse, to pure feelings and elevated thoughts.

It is not certain that Socrates and his followers had very fixed opinions as to what would
befall man hereafter; but the sole point of belief on which they were determined--that the
soul has nothing in common with the body, and survives it--was enough to give the Platonic
philosophy that sublime aspiration by which it is distinguished. It is clear from the works
of Plato, that many philosophical writers, his predecessors or contemporaries, professed materialism.
These writers have not reached us, or have reached us in mere fragments. The same thing has
happened in almost all ages; the greater part of the most famous minds in literature adhere
to the doctrines of a supersensual philosophy. The instinct and the taste of the human race
maintain those doctrines; they save them oftentimes in spite of men themselves, and raise the
names of their defenders above the tide of time. It must not then be supposed that at any period
or under any political condition, the passion for physical gratifications, and the opinions
which are superinduced by that passion, can ever content a whole people. The heart of man is
of a larger mould: it can at once comprise a taste for the possessions of earth and the love
of those of heaven: at times it may seem to cling devotedly to the one, but it will never be
long without thinking of the other.

If it be easy to see that it is more particularly important in democratic ages that spiritual
opinions should prevail, it is not easy to say by what means those who govern democratic nations
may make them predominate. I am no believer in the prosperity, any more than in the durability,
of official philosophies; and as to state religions, I have always held, that if they be sometimes
of momentary service to the interests of political power, they always, sooner or later, become
fatal to the Church. Nor do I think with those who assert, that to raise religion in the eyes
of the people, and to make them do honor to her spiritual doctrines, it is desirable indirectly
to give her ministers a political influence which the laws deny them. I am so much alive to
the almost inevitable dangers which beset religious belief whenever the clergy take part in
public affairs, and I am so convinced that Christianity must be maintained at any cost in the
bosom of modern democracies, that I had rather shut up the priesthood within the sanctuary
than allow them to step beyond it.

What means then remain in the hands of constituted authorities to bring men back to spiritual
opinions, or to hold them fast to the religion by which those opinions are suggested? My answer
will do me harm in the eyes of politicians. I believe that the sole effectual means which governments
can employ in order to have the doctrine of the immortality of the soul duly respected, is
ever to act as if they believed in it themselves; and I think that it is only by scrupulous
conformity to religious morality in great affairs that they can hope to teach the community
at large to know, to love, and to observe it in the lesser concerns of life.

Chapter XVI: That Excessive Care Of Worldly Welfare May Impair That Welfare

There is a closer tie than is commonly supposed between the improvement of the soul and the
amelioration of what belongs to the body. Man may leave these two things apart, and consider
each of them alternately; but he cannot sever them entirely without at last losing sight of
one and of the other. The beasts have the same senses as ourselves, and very nearly the same
appetites. We have no sensual passions which are not common to our race and theirs, and which
are not to be found, at least in the germ, in a dog as well as in a man. Whence is it then
that the animals can only provide for their first and lowest wants, whereas we can infinitely
vary and endlessly increase our enjoyments?

We are superior to the beasts in this, that we use our souls to find out those material benefits
to which they are only led by instinct. In man, the angel teaches the brute the art of contenting
its desires. It is because man is capable of rising above the things of the body, and of contemning
life itself, of which the beasts have not the least notion, that he can multiply these same
things of the body to a degree which inferior races are equally unable to conceive. Whatever
elevates, enlarges, and expands the soul, renders it more capable of succeeding in those very
undertakings which concern it not. Whatever, on the other hand, enervates or lowers it, weakens
it for all purposes, the chiefest, as well as the least, and threatens to render it almost
equally impotent for the one and for the other. Hence the soul must remain great and strong,
though it were only to devote its strength and greatness from time to time to the service of
the body. If men were ever to content themselves with material objects, it is probable that
they would lose by degrees the art of producing them; and they would enjoy them in the end,
like the brutes, without discernment and without improvement.

Chapter XVII: That In Times Marked By Equality Of Conditions And Sceptical Opinions, It Is
Important To Remove To A Distance The Objects Of Human Actions

In the ages of faith the final end of life is placed beyond life. The men of those ages therefore
naturally, and in a manner involuntarily, accustom themselves to fix their gaze for a long
course of years on some immovable object, towards which they are constantly tending; and they
learn by insensible degrees to repress a multitude of petty passing desires, in order to be
the better able to content that great and lasting desire which possesses them. When these same
men engage in the affairs of this world, the same habits may be traced in their conduct. They
are apt to set up some general and certain aim and end to their actions here below, towards
which all their efforts are directed: they do not turn from day to day to chase some novel
object of desire, but they have settled designs which they are never weary of pursuing. This
explains why religious nations have so often achieved such lasting results: for whilst they
were thinking only of the other world, they had found out the great secret of success in this.
Religions give men a general habit of conducting themselves with a view to futurity: in this
respect they are not less useful to happiness in this life than to felicity hereafter; and
this is one of their chief political characteristics.

But in proportion as the light of faith grows dim, the range of man's sight is circumscribed,
as if the end and aim of human actions appeared every day to be more within his reach. When
men have once allowed themselves to think no more of what is to befall them after life, they
readily lapse into that complete and brutal indifference to futurity, which is but too conformable
to some propensities of mankind. As soon as they have lost the habit of placing their chief
hopes upon remote events, they naturally seek to gratify without delay their smallest desires;
and no sooner do they despair of living forever, than they are disposed to act as if they were
to exist but for a single day. In sceptical ages it is always therefore to be feared that men
may perpetually give way to their daily casual desires; and that, wholly renouncing whatever
cannot be acquired without protracted effort, they may establish nothing great, permanent,
and calm.

If the social condition of a people, under these circumstances, becomes democratic, the danger
which I here point out is thereby increased. When everyone is constantly striving to change
his position--when an immense field for competition is thrown open to all--when wealth is amassed
or dissipated in the shortest possible space of time amidst the turmoil of democracy, visions
of sudden and easy fortunes--of great possessions easily won and lost--of chance, under all
its forms--haunt the mind. The instability of society itself fosters the natural instability
of man's desires. In the midst of these perpetual fluctuations of his lot, the present grows
upon his mind, until it conceals futurity from his sight, and his looks go no further than
the morrow.

In those countries in which unhappily irreligion and democracy coexist, the most important
duty of philosophers and of those in power is to be always striving to place the objects of
human actions far beyond man's immediate range. Circumscribed by the character of his country
and his age, the moralist must learn to vindicate his principles in that position. He must
constantly endeavor to show his contemporaries, that, even in the midst of the perpetual commotion
around them, it is easier than they think to conceive and to execute protracted undertakings.
He must teach them that, although the aspect of mankind may have changed, the methods by which
men may provide for their prosperity in this world are still the same; and that amongst democratic
nations, as well as elsewhere, it is only by resisting a thousand petty selfish passions of
the hour that the general and unquenchable passion for happiness can be satisfied.

The task of those in power is not less clearly marked out. At all times it is important that
those who govern nations should act with a view to the future: but this is even more necessary
in democratic and sceptical ages than in any others. By acting thus, the leading men of democracies
not only make public affairs prosperous, but they also teach private individuals, by their
example, the art of managing private concerns. Above all they must strive as much as possible
to banish chance from the sphere of politics. The sudden and undeserved promotion of a courtier
produces only a transient impression in an aristocratic country, because the aggregate institutions
and opinions of the nation habitually compel men to advance slowly in tracks which they cannot
get out of. But nothing is more pernicious than similar instances of favor exhibited to the
eyes of a democratic people: they give the last impulse to the public mind in a direction where
everything hurries it onwards. At times of scepticism and equality more especially, the favor
of the people or of the prince, which chance may confer or chance withhold, ought never to
stand in lieu of attainments or services. It is desirable that every advancement should there
appear to be the result of some effort; so that no greatness should be of too easy acquirement,
and that ambition should be obliged to fix its gaze long upon an object before it is gratified.
Governments must apply themselves to restore to men that love of the future with which religion
and the state of society no longer inspire them; and, without saying so, they must practically
teach the community day by day that wealth, fame, and power are the rewards of labor--that
great success stands at the utmost range of long desires, and that nothing lasting is obtained
but what is obtained by toil. When men have accustomed themselves to foresee from afar what
is likely to befall in the world and to feed upon hopes, they can hardly confine their minds
within the precise circumference of life, and they are ready to break the boundary and cast
their looks beyond. I do not doubt that, by training the members of a community to think of
their future condition in this world, they would be gradually and unconsciously brought nearer
to religious convictions. Thus the means which allow men, up to a certain point, to go without
religion, are perhaps after all the only means we still possess for bringing mankind back by
a long and roundabout path to a state of faith.

Chapter XVIII: That Amongst The Americans All Honest Callings Are Honorable

Amongst a democratic people, where there is no hereditary wealth, every man works to earn a
living, or has worked, or is born of parents who have worked. The notion of labor is therefore
presented to the mind on every side as the necessary, natural, and honest condition of human
existence. Not only is labor not dishonorable amongst such a people, but it is held in honor:
the prejudice is not against it, but in its favor. In the United States a wealthy man thinks
that he owes it to public opinion to devote his leisure to some kind of industrial or commercial
pursuit, or to public business. He would think himself in bad repute if he employed his life
solely in living. It is for the purpose of escaping this obligation to work, that so many rich
Americans come to Europe, where they find some scattered remains of aristocratic society, amongst
which idleness is still held in honor.

Equality of conditions not only ennobles the notion of labor in men's estimation, but it raises
the notion of labor as a source of profit. In aristocracies it is not exactly labor that is
despised, but labor with a view to profit. Labor is honorific in itself, when it is undertaken
at the sole bidding of ambition or of virtue. Yet in aristocratic society it constantly happens
that he who works for honor is not insensible to the attractions of profit. But these two desires
only intermingle in the innermost depths of his soul: he carefully hides from every eye the
point at which they join; he would fain conceal it from himself. In aristocratic countries
there are few public officers who do not affect to serve their country without interested motives.
Their salary is an incident of which they think but little, and of which they always affect
not to think at all. Thus the notion of profit is kept distinct from that of labor; however
they may be united in point of fact, they are not thought of together.

In democratic communities these two notions are, on the contrary, always palpably united. As
the desire of well-being is universal--as fortunes are slender or fluctuating--as everyone
wants either to increase his own resources, or to provide fresh ones for his progeny, men clearly
see that it is profit which, if not wholly, at least partially, leads them to work. Even those
who are principally actuated by the love of fame are necessarily made familiar with the thought
that they are not exclusively actuated by that motive; and they discover that the desire of
getting a living is mingled in their minds with the desire of making life illustrious.

As soon as, on the one hand, labor is held by the whole community to be an honorable necessity
of man's condition, and, on the other, as soon as labor is always ostensibly performed, wholly
or in part, for the purpose of earning remuneration, the immense interval which separated different
callings in aristocratic societies disappears. If all are not alike, all at least have one
feature in common. No profession exists in which men do not work for money; and the remuneration
which is common to them all gives them all an air of resemblance. This serves to explain the
opinions which the Americans entertain with respect to different callings. In America no one
is degraded because he works, for everyone about him works also; nor is anyone humiliated by
the notion of receiving pay, for the President of the United States also works for pay. He
is paid for commanding, other men for obeying orders. In the United States professions are
more or less laborious, more or less profitable; but they are never either high or low: every
honest calling is honorable.

Chapter XIX: That Almost All The Americans Follow Industrial Callings

Agriculture is, perhaps, of all the useful arts that which improves most slowly amongst democratic
nations. Frequently, indeed, it would seem to be stationary, because other arts are making
rapid strides towards perfection. On the other hand, almost all the tastes and habits which
the equality of condition engenders naturally lead men to commercial and industrial occupations.

Suppose an active, enlightened, and free man, enjoying a competency, but full of desires: he
is too poor to live in idleness; he is rich enough to feel himself protected from the immediate
fear of want, and he thinks how he can better his condition. This man has conceived a taste
for physical gratifications, which thousands of his fellow-men indulge in around him; he has
himself begun to enjoy these pleasures, and he is eager to increase his means of satisfying
these tastes more completely. But life is slipping away, time is urgent--to what is he to turn?
The cultivation of the ground promises an almost certain result to his exertions, but a slow
one; men are not enriched by it without patience and toil. Agriculture is therefore only suited
to those who have already large, superfluous wealth, or to those whose penury bids them only
seek a bare subsistence. The choice of such a man as we have supposed is soon made; he sells
his plot of ground, leaves his dwelling, and embarks in some hazardous but lucrative calling.
Democratic communities abound in men of this kind; and in proportion as the equality of conditions
becomes greater, their multitude increases. Thus democracy not only swells the number of workingmen,
but it leads men to prefer one kind of labor to another; and whilst it diverts them from agriculture,
it encourages their taste for commerce and manufactures. *a

[Footnote a: It has often been remarked that manufacturers and mercantile men are inordinately
addicted to physical gratifications, and this has been attributed to commerce and manufactures;
but that is, I apprehend, to take the effect for the cause. The taste for physical gratifications
is not imparted to men by commerce or manufactures, but it is rather this taste which leads
men to embark in commerce and manufactures, as a means by which they hope to satisfy themselves
more promptly and more completely. If commerce and manufactures increase the desire of well-being,
it is because every passion gathers strength in proportion as it is cultivated, and is increased
by all the efforts made to satiate it. All the causes which make the love of worldly welfare
predominate in the heart of man are favorable to the growth of commerce and manufactures. Equality
of conditions is one of those causes; it encourages trade, not directly by giving men a taste
for business, but indirectly by strengthening and expanding in their minds a taste for prosperity.]

This spirit may be observed even amongst the richest members of the community. In democratic
countries, however opulent a man is supposed to be, he is almost always discontented with his
fortune, because he finds that he is less rich than his father was, and he fears that his sons
will be less rich than himself. Most rich men in democracies are therefore constantly haunted
by the desire of obtaining wealth, and they naturally turn their attention to trade and manufactures,
which appear to offer the readiest and most powerful means of success. In this respect they
share the instincts of the poor, without feeling the same necessities; say rather, they feel
the most imperious of all necessities, that of not sinking in the world.

In aristocracies the rich are at the same time those who govern. The attention which they unceasingly
devote to important public affairs diverts them from the lesser cares which trade and manufactures
demand. If the will of an individual happens, nevertheless, to turn his attention to business,
the will of the body to which he belongs will immediately debar him from pursuing it; for however
men may declaim against the rule of numbers, they cannot wholly escape their sway; and even
amongst those aristocratic bodies which most obstinately refuse to acknowledge the rights of
the majority of the nation, a private majority is formed which governs the rest. *b

[Footnote b: Some aristocracies, however, have devoted themselves eagerly to commerce, and
have cultivated manufactures with success. The history of the world might furnish several conspicuous
examples. But, generally speaking, it may be affirmed that the aristocratic principle is not
favorable to the growth of trade and manufactures. Moneyed aristocracies are the only exception
to the rule. Amongst such aristocracies there are hardly any desires which do not require wealth
to satisfy them; the love of riches becomes, so to speak, the high road of human passions,
which is crossed by or connected with all lesser tracks. The love of money and the thirst for
that distinction which attaches to power, are then so closely intermixed in the same souls,
that it becomes difficult to discover whether men grow covetous from ambition, or whether they
are ambitious from covetousness. This is the case in England, where men seek to get rich in
order to arrive at distinction, and seek distinctions as a manifestation of their wealth. The
mind is then seized by both ends, and hurried into trade and manufactures, which are the shortest
roads that lead to opulence.

This, however, strikes me as an exceptional and transitory circumstance. When wealth is become
the only symbol of aristocracy, it is very difficult for the wealthy to maintain sole possession
of political power, to the exclusion of all other men. The aristocracy of birth and pure democracy
are at the two extremes of the social and political state of nations: between them moneyed
aristocracy finds its place. The latter approximates to the aristocracy of birth by conferring
great privileges on a small number of persons; it so far belongs to the democratic element,
that these privileges may be successively acquired by all. It frequently forms a natural transition
between these two conditions of society, and it is difficult to say whether it closes the reign
of aristocratic institutions, or whether it already opens the new era of democracy.]

In democratic countries, where money does not lead those who possess it to political power,
but often removes them from it, the rich do not know how to spend their leisure. They are driven
into active life by the inquietude and the greatness of their desires, by the extent of their
resources, and by the taste for what is extraordinary, which is almost always felt by those
who rise, by whatsoever means, above the crowd. Trade is the only road open to them. In democracies
nothing is more great or more brilliant than commerce: it attracts the attention of the public,
and fills the imagination of the multitude; all energetic passions are directed towards it.
Neither their own prejudices, nor those of anybody else, can prevent the rich from devoting
themselves to it. The wealthy members of democracies never form a body which has manners and
regulations of its own; the opinions peculiar to their class do not restrain them, and the
common opinions of their country urge them on. Moreover, as all the large fortunes which are
to be met with in a democratic community are of commercial growth, many generations must succeed
each other before their possessors can have entirely laid aside their habits of business.

Circumscribed within the narrow space which politics leave them, rich men in democracies eagerly
embark in commercial enterprise: there they can extend and employ their natural advantages;
and indeed it is even by the boldness and the magnitude of their industrial speculations that
we may measure the slight esteem in which productive industry would have been held by them,
if they had been born amidst an aristocracy.

A similar observation is likewise applicable to all men living in democracies, whether they
be poor or rich. Those who live in the midst of democratic fluctuations have always before
their eyes the phantom of chance; and they end by liking all undertakings in which chance plays
a part. They are therefore all led to engage in commerce, not only for the sake of the profit
it holds out to them, but for the love of the constant excitement occasioned by that pursuit.

The United States of America have only been emancipated for half a century [in 1840] from the
state of colonial dependence in which they stood to Great Britain; the number of large fortunes
there is small, and capital is still scarce. Yet no people in the world has made such rapid
progress in trade and manufactures as the Americans: they constitute at the present day the
second maritime nation in the world; and although their manufactures have to struggle with
almost insurmountable natural impediments, they are not prevented from making great and daily
advances. In the United States the greatest undertakings and speculations are executed without
difficulty, because the whole population is engaged in productive industry, and because the
poorest as well as the most opulent members of the commonwealth are ready to combine their
efforts for these purposes. The consequence is, that a stranger is constantly amazed by the
immense public works executed by a nation which contains, so to speak, no rich men. The Americans
arrived but as yesterday on the territory which they inhabit, and they have already changed
the whole order of nature for their own advantage. They have joined the Hudson to the Mississippi,
and made the Atlantic Ocean communicate with the Gulf of Mexico, across a continent of more
than five hundred leagues in extent which separates the two seas. The longest railroads which
have been constructed up to the present time are in America. But what most astonishes me in
the United States, is not so much the marvellous grandeur of some undertakings, as the innumerable
multitude of small ones. Almost all the farmers of the United States combine some trade with
agriculture; most of them make agriculture itself a trade. It seldom happens that an American
farmer settles for good upon the land which he occupies: especially in the districts of the
Far West he brings land into tillage in order to sell it again, and not to farm it: he builds
a farmhouse on the speculation that, as the state of the country will soon be changed by the
increase of population, a good price will be gotten for it. Every year a swarm of the inhabitants
of the North arrive in the Southern States, and settle in the parts where the cotton plant
and the sugar-cane grow. These men cultivate the soil in order to make it produce in a few
years enough to enrich them; and they already look forward to the time when they may return
home to enjoy the competency thus acquired. Thus the Americans carry their business-like qualities
into agriculture; and their trading passions are displayed in that as in their other pursuits.

The Americans make immense progress in productive industry, because they all devote themselves
to it at once; and for this same reason they are exposed to very unexpected and formidable
embarrassments. As they are all engaged in commerce, their commercial affairs are affected
by such various and complex causes that it is impossible to foresee what difficulties may arise.
As they are all more or less engaged in productive industry, at the least shock given to business
all private fortunes are put in jeopardy at the same time, and the State is shaken. I believe
that the return of these commercial panics is an endemic disease of the democratic nations
of our age. It may be rendered less dangerous, but it cannot be cured; because it does not
originate in accidental circumstances, but in the temperament of these nations.

Chapter XX: That Aristocracy May Be Engendered By Manufactures

I have shown that democracy is favorable to the growth of manufactures, and that it increases
without limit the numbers of the manufacturing classes: we shall now see by what side road
manufacturers may possibly in their turn bring men back to aristocracy. It is acknowledged
that when a workman is engaged every day upon the same detail, the whole commodity is produced
with greater ease, promptitude, and economy. It is likewise acknowledged that the cost of the
production of manufactured goods is diminished by the extent of the establishment in which
they are made, and by the amount of capital employed or of credit. These truths had long been
imperfectly discerned, but in our time they have been demonstrated. They have been already
applied to many very important kinds of manufactures, and the humblest will gradually be governed
by them. I know of nothing in politics which deserves to fix the attention of the legislator
more closely than these two new axioms of the science of manufactures.

When a workman is unceasingly and exclusively engaged in the fabrication of one thing, he ultimately
does his work with singular dexterity; but at the same time he loses the general faculty of
applying his mind to the direction of the work. He every day becomes more adroit and less industrious;
so that it may be said of him, that in proportion as the workman improves the man is degraded.
What can be expected of a man who has spent twenty years of his life in making heads for pins?
and to what can that mighty human intelligence, which has so often stirred the world, be applied
in him, except it be to investigate the best method of making pins' heads? When a workman has
spent a considerable portion of his existence in this manner, his thoughts are forever set
upon the object of his daily toil; his body has contracted certain fixed habits, which it can
never shake off: in a word, he no longer belongs to himself, but to the calling which he has
chosen. It is in vain that laws and manners have been at the pains to level all barriers round
such a man, and to open to him on every side a thousand different paths to fortune; a theory
of manufactures more powerful than manners and laws binds him to a craft, and frequently to
a spot, which he cannot leave: it assigns to him a certain place in society, beyond which he
cannot go: in the midst of universal movement it has rendered him stationary.

In proportion as the principle of the division of labor is more extensively applied, the workman
becomes more weak, more narrow-minded, and more dependent. The art advances, the artisan recedes.
On the other hand, in proportion as it becomes more manifest that the productions of manufactures
are by so much the cheaper and better as the manufacture is larger and the amount of capital
employed more considerable, wealthy and educated men come forward to embark in manufactures
which were heretofore abandoned to poor or ignorant handicraftsmen. The magnitude of the efforts
required, and the importance of the results to be obtained, attract them. Thus at the very
time at which the science of manufactures lowers the class of workmen, it raises the class
of masters.

Whereas the workman concentrates his faculties more and more upon the study of a single detail,
the master surveys a more extensive whole, and the mind of the latter is enlarged in proportion
as that of the former is narrowed. In a short time the one will require nothing but physical
strength without intelligence; the other stands in need of science, and almost of genius, to
insure success. This man resembles more and more the administrator of a vast empire--that man,
a brute. The master and the workman have then here no similarity, and their differences increase
every day. They are only connected as the two rings at the extremities of a long chain. Each
of them fills the station which is made for him, and out of which he does not get: the one
is continually, closely, and necessarily dependent upon the other, and seems as much born to
obey as that other is to command. What is this but aristocracy?

As the conditions of men constituting the nation become more and more equal, the demand for
manufactured commodities becomes more general and more extensive; and the cheapness which places
these objects within the reach of slender fortunes becomes a great element of success. Hence
there are every day more men of great opulence and education who devote their wealth and knowledge
to manufactures; and who seek, by opening large establishments, and by a strict division of
labor, to meet the fresh demands which are made on all sides. Thus, in proportion as the mass
of the nation turns to democracy, that particular class which is engaged in manufactures becomes
more aristocratic. Men grow more alike in the one--more different in the other; and inequality
increases in the less numerous class in the same ratio in which it decreases in the community.
Hence it would appear, on searching to the bottom, that aristocracy should naturally spring
out of the bosom of democracy.

But this kind of aristocracy by no means resembles those kinds which preceded it. It will be
observed at once, that as it applies exclusively to manufactures and to some manufacturing
callings, it is a monstrous exception in the general aspect of society. The small aristocratic
societies which are formed by some manufacturers in the midst of the immense democracy of our
age, contain, like the great aristocratic societies of former ages, some men who are very opulent,
and a multitude who are wretchedly poor. The poor have few means of escaping from their condition
and becoming rich; but the rich are constantly becoming poor, or they give up business when
they have realized a fortune. Thus the elements of which the class of the poor is composed
are fixed; but the elements of which the class of the rich is composed are not so. To say the
truth, though there are rich men, the class of rich men does not exist; for these rich individuals
have no feelings or purposes in common, no mutual traditions or mutual hopes; there are therefore
members, but no body.

Not only are the rich not compactly united amongst themselves, but there is no real bond between
them and the poor. Their relative position is not a permanent one; they are constantly drawn
together or separated by their interests. The workman is generally dependent on the master,
but not on any particular master; these two men meet in the factory, but know not each other
elsewhere; and whilst they come into contact on one point, they stand very wide apart on all
others. The manufacturer asks nothing of the workman but his labor; the workman expects nothing
from him but his wages. The one contracts no obligation to protect, nor the other to defend;
and they are not permanently connected either by habit or by duty. The aristocracy created
by business rarely settles in the midst of the manufacturing population which it directs; the
object is not to govern that population, but to use it. An aristocracy thus constituted can
have no great hold upon those whom it employs; and even if it succeed in retaining them at
one moment, they escape the next; it knows not how to will, and it cannot act. The territorial
aristocracy of former ages was either bound by law, or thought itself bound by usage, to come
to the relief of its serving-men, and to succor their distresses. But the manufacturing aristocracy
of our age first impoverishes and debases the men who serve it, and then abandons them to be
supported by the charity of the public. This is a natural consequence of what has been said
before. Between the workmen and the master there are frequent relations, but no real partnership.

I am of opinion, upon the whole, that the manufacturing aristocracy which is growing up under
our eyes is one of the harshest which ever existed in the world; but at the same time it is
one of the most confined and least dangerous. Nevertheless the friends of democracy should
keep their eyes anxiously fixed in this direction; for if ever a permanent inequality of conditions
and aristocracy again penetrate into the world, it may be predicted that this is the channel
by which they will enter.

Book Three: Influence Of Democracy On Manners, Properly So Called

Chapter I: That Manners Are Softened As Social Conditions Become More Equal

We perceive that for several ages social conditions have tended to equality, and we discover
that in the course of the same period the manners of society have been softened. Are these
two things merely contemporaneous, or does any secret link exist between them, so that the
one cannot go on without making the other advance? Several causes may concur to render the
manners of a people less rude; but, of all these causes, the most powerful appears to me to
be the equality of conditions. Equality of conditions and growing civility in manners are,
then, in my eyes, not only contemporaneous occurrences, but correlative facts. When the fabulists
seek to interest us in the actions of beasts, they invest them with human notions and passions;
the poets who sing of spirits and angels do the same; there is no wretchedness so deep, nor
any happiness so pure, as to fill the human mind and touch the heart, unless we are ourselves
held up to our own eyes under other features.

This is strictly applicable to the subject upon which we are at present engaged. When all men
are irrevocably marshalled in an aristocratic community, according to their professions, their
property, and their birth, the members of each class, considering themselves as children of
the same family, cherish a constant and lively sympathy towards each other, which can never
be felt in an equal degree by the citizens of a democracy. But the same feeling does not exist
between the several classes towards each other. Amongst an aristocratic people each caste has
its own opinions, feelings, rights, manners, and modes of living. Thus the men of whom each
caste is composed do not resemble the mass of their fellow-citizens; they do not think or feel
in the same manner, and they scarcely believe that they belong to the same human race. They
cannot, therefore, thoroughly understand what others feel, nor judge of others by themselves.
Yet they are sometimes eager to lend each other mutual aid; but this is not contrary to my
previous observation. These aristocratic institutions, which made the beings of one and the
same race so different, nevertheless bound them to each other by close political ties. Although
the serf had no natural interest in the fate of nobles, he did not the less think himself obliged
to devote his person to the service of that noble who happened to be his lord; and although
the noble held himself to be of a different nature from that of his serfs, he nevertheless
held that his duty and his honor constrained him to defend, at the risk of his own life, those
who dwelt upon his domains.

It is evident that these mutual obligations did not originate in the law of nature, but in
the law of society; and that the claim of social duty was more stringent than that of mere
humanity. These services were not supposed to be due from man to man, but to the vassal or
to the lord. Feudal institutions awakened a lively sympathy for the sufferings of certain men,
but none at all for the miseries of mankind. They infused generosity rather than mildness into
the manners of the time, and although they prompted men to great acts of self-devotion, they
engendered no real sympathies; for real sympathies can only exist between those who are alike;
and in aristocratic ages men acknowledge none but the members of their own caste to be like
themselves.

When the chroniclers of the Middle Ages, who all belonged to the aristocracy by birth or education,
relate the tragical end of a noble, their grief flows apace; whereas they tell you at a breath,
and without wincing, of massacres and tortures inflicted on the common sort of people. Not
that these writers felt habitual hatred or systematic disdain for the people; war between the
several classes of the community was not yet declared. They were impelled by an instinct rather
than by a passion; as they had formed no clear notion of a poor man's sufferings, they cared
but little for his fate. The same feelings animated the lower orders whenever the feudal tie
was broken. The same ages which witnessed so many heroic acts of self-devotion on the part
of vassals for their lords, were stained with atrocious barbarities, exercised from time to
time by the lower classes on the higher. It must not be supposed that this mutual insensibility
arose solely from the absence of public order and education; for traces of it are to be found
in the following centuries, which became tranquil and enlightened whilst they remained aristocratic.
In 1675 the lower classes in Brittany revolted at the imposition of a new tax. These disturbances
were put down with unexampled atrocity. Observe the language in which Madame de Sevigne, a
witness of these horrors, relates them to her daughter:--

"Aux Rochers, 30 Octobre, 1675.

"Mon Dieu, ma fille, que votre lettre d'Aix est plaisante! Au moins relisez vos lettres avant
que de les envoyer; laissez-vous surpendre a leur agrement, et consolez-vous par ce plaisir
de la peine que vous avez d'en tant ecrire. Vous avez donc baise toute la Provence? il n'y
aurait pas satisfaction a baiser toute la Bretagne, a moins qu'on n'aimat a sentir le vin.
. . . Voulez-vous savoir des nouvelles de Rennes? On a fait une taxe de cent mille ecus sur
le bourgeois; et si on ne trouve point cette somme dans vingt-quatre heures, elle sera doublee
et exigible par les soldats. On a chasse et banni toute une grand rue, et defendu de les recueillir
sous peine de la vie; de sorte qu'on voyait tous ces miserables, veillards, femmes accouchees,
enfans, errer en pleurs au sortir de cette ville sans savoir ou aller. On roua avant-hier un
violon, qui avait commence la danse et la pillerie du papier timbre; il a ete ecartele apres
sa mort, et ses quatre quartiers exposes aux quatre coins de la ville. On a pris soixante bourgeois,
et on commence demain les punitions. Cette province est un bel exemple pour les autres, et
surtout de respecter les gouverneurs et les gouvernantes, et de ne point jeter de pierres dans
leur jardin." *a

[Footnote a: To feel the point of this joke the reader should recollect that Madame de Grignan
was Gouvernante de Provence.] "Madame de Tarente etait hier dans ces bois par un temps enchante:
il n'est question ni de chambre ni de collation; elle entre par la barriere et s'en retourne
de meme. . . ."

In another letter she adds:--

"Vous me parlez bien plaisamment de nos miseres; nous ne sommes plus si roues; un en huit jours,
pour entretenir la justice. Il est vrai que la penderie me parait maintenant un refraichissement.
J'ai une tout autre idee de la justice, depuis que je suis en ce pays. Vos galeriens me paraissent
une societe d'honnetes gens qui se sont retires du monde pour mener une vie douce."

It would be a mistake to suppose that Madame de Sevigne, who wrote these lines, was a selfish
or cruel person; she was passionately attached to her children, and very ready to sympathize
in the sorrows of her friends; nay, her letters show that she treated her vassals and servants
with kindness and indulgence. But Madame de Sevigne had no clear notion of suffering in anyone
who was not a person of quality.

In our time the harshest man writing to the most insensible person of his acquaintance would
not venture wantonly to indulge in the cruel jocularity which I have quoted; and even if his
own manners allowed him to do so, the manners of society at large would forbid it. Whence does
this arise? Have we more sensibility than our forefathers? I know not that we have; but I am
sure that our insensibility is extended to a far greater range of objects. When all the ranks
of a community are nearly equal, as all men think and feel in nearly the same manner, each
of them may judge in a moment of the sensations of all the others; he casts a rapid glance
upon himself, and that is enough. There is no wretchedness into which he cannot readily enter,
and a secret instinct reveals to him its extent. It signifies not that strangers or foes be
the sufferers; imagination puts him in their place; something like a personal feeling is mingled
with his pity, and makes himself suffer whilst the body of his fellow-creature is in torture.
In democratic ages men rarely sacrifice themselves for one another; but they display general
compassion for the members of the human race. They inflict no useless ills; and they are happy
to relieve the griefs of others, when they can do so without much hurting themselves; they
are not disinterested, but they are humane.

Although the Americans have, in a manner, reduced egotism to a social and philosophical theory,
they are nevertheless extremely open to compassion. In no country is criminal justice administered
with more mildness than in the United States. Whilst the English seem disposed carefully to
retain the bloody traces of the dark ages in their penal legislation, the Americans have almost
expunged capital punishment from their codes. North America is, I think, the only one country
upon earth in which the life of no one citizen has been taken for a political offence in the
course of the last fifty years. The circumstance which conclusively shows that this singular
mildness of the Americans arises chiefly from their social condition, is the manner in which
they treat their slaves. Perhaps there is not, upon the whole, a single European colony in
the New World in which the physical condition of the blacks is less severe than in the United
States; yet the slaves still endure horrid sufferings there, and are constantly exposed to
barbarous punishments. It is easy to perceive that the lot of these unhappy beings inspires
their masters with but little compassion, and that they look upon slavery, not only as an institution
which is profitable to them, but as an evil which does not affect them. Thus the same man who
is full of humanity towards his fellow-creatures when they are at the same time his equals,
becomes insensible to their afflictions as soon as that equality ceases. His mildness should
therefore be attributed to the equality of conditions, rather than to civilization and education.

What I have here remarked of individuals is, to a certain extent, applicable to nations. When
each nation has its distinct opinions, belief, laws, and customs, it looks upon itself as the
whole of mankind, and is moved by no sorrows but its own. Should war break out between two
nations animated by this feeling, it is sure to be waged with great cruelty. At the time of
their highest culture, the Romans slaughtered the generals of their enemies, after having dragged
them in triumph behind a car; and they flung their prisoners to the beasts of the Circus for
the amusement of the people. Cicero, who declaimed so vehemently at the notion of crucifying
a Roman citizen, had not a word to say against these horrible abuses of victory. It is evident
that in his eyes a barbarian did not belong to the same human race as a Roman. On the contrary,
in proportion as nations become more like each other, they become reciprocally more compassionate,
and the law of nations is mitigated.

Chapter II: That Democracy Renders The Habitual Intercourse Of The Americans Simple And Easy

Democracy does not attach men strongly to each other; but it places their habitual intercourse
upon an easier footing. If two Englishmen chance to meet at the Antipodes, where they are surrounded
by strangers whose language and manners are almost unknown to them, they will first stare at
each other with much curiosity and a kind of secret uneasiness; they will then turn away, or,
if one accosts the other, they will take care only to converse with a constrained and absent
air upon very unimportant subjects. Yet there is no enmity between these men; they have never
seen each other before, and each believes the other to be a respectable person. Why then should
they stand so cautiously apart? We must go back to England to learn the reason.

When it is birth alone, independent of wealth, which classes men in society, everyone knows
exactly what his own position is upon the social scale; he does not seek to rise, he does not
fear to sink. In a community thus organized, men of different castes communicate very little
with each other; but if accident brings them together, they are ready to converse without hoping
or fearing to lose their own position. Their intercourse is not upon a footing of equality,
but it is not constrained. When moneyed aristocracy succeeds to aristocracy of birth, the case
is altered. The privileges of some are still extremely great, but the possibility of acquiring
those privileges is open to all: whence it follows that those who possess them are constantly
haunted by the apprehension of losing them, or of other men's sharing them; those who do not
yet enjoy them long to possess them at any cost, or, if they fail to appear at least to possess
them--which is not impossible. As the social importance of men is no longer ostensibly and
permanently fixed by blood, and is infinitely varied by wealth, ranks still exist, but it is
not easy clearly to distinguish at a glance those who respectively belong to them. Secret hostilities
then arise in the community; one set of men endeavor by innumerable artifices to penetrate,
or to appear to penetrate, amongst those who are above them; another set are constantly in
arms against these usurpers of their rights; or rather the same individual does both at once,
and whilst he seeks to raise himself into a higher circle, he is always on the defensive against
the intrusion of those below him.

Such is the condition of England at the present time; and I am of opinion that the peculiarity
before adverted to is principally to be attributed to this cause. Many people attribute these
singular anti-social propensities, and the reserved and taciturn bearing of the English, to
purely physical causes. I may admit that there is something of it in their race, but much more
of it is attributable to their social condition, as is proved by the contrast of the Americans.
If their demeanor is often cold and serious, it is never haughty or constrained; and if they
do not converse, it is because they are not in a humor to talk, not because they think it their
interest to be silent. In a foreign country two Americans are at once friends, simply because
they are Americans. They are repulsed by no prejudice; they are attracted by their common country.
For two Englishmen the same blood is not enough; they must be brought together by the same
rank. The Americans remark this unsociable mood of the English as much as the French do, and
they are not less astonished by it. Yet the Americans are connected with England by their origin,
their religion, their language, and partially by their manners; they only differ in their social
condition. It may therefore be inferred that the reserve of the English proceeds from the constitution
of their country much more than from that of its inhabitants.

Chapter III: Why The Americans Show So Little Sensitiveness In Their Own Country, And Are So
Sensitive In Europe

The temper of the Americans is vindictive, like that of all serious and reflecting nations.
They hardly ever forget an offence, but it is not easy to offend them; and their resentment
is as slow to kindle as it is to abate. In aristocratic communities where a small number of
persons manage everything, the outward intercourse of men is subject to settled conventional
rules. Everyone then thinks he knows exactly what marks of respect or of condescension he ought
to display, and none are presumed to be ignorant of the science of etiquette. These usages
of the first class in society afterwards serve as a model to all the others; besides which
each of the latter lays down a code of its own, to which all its members are bound to conform.
Thus the rules of politeness form a complex system of legislation, which it is difficult to
be perfectly master of, but from which it is dangerous for anyone to deviate; so that men are
constantly exposed involuntarily to inflict or to receive bitter affronts. But as the distinctions
of rank are obliterated, as men differing in education and in birth meet and mingle in the
same places of resort, it is almost impossible to agree upon the rules of good breeding. As
its laws are uncertain, to disobey them is not a crime, even in the eyes of those who know
what they are; men attach more importance to intentions than to forms, and they grow less civil,
but at the same time less quarrelsome. There are many little attentions which an American does
not care about; he thinks they are not due to him, or he presumes that they are not known to
be due: he therefore either does not perceive a rudeness or he forgives it; his manners become
less courteous, and his character more plain and masculine.

The mutual indulgence which the Americans display, and the manly confidence with which they
treat each other, also result from another deeper and more general cause, which I have already
adverted to in the preceding chapter. In the United States the distinctions of rank in civil
society are slight, in political society they are null; an American, therefore, does not think
himself bound to pay particular attentions to any of his fellow-citizens, nor does he require
such attentions from them towards himself. As he does not see that it is his interest eagerly
to seek the company of any of his countrymen, he is slow to fancy that his own company is declined:
despising no one on account of his station, he does not imagine that anyone can despise him
for that cause; and until he has clearly perceived an insult, he does not suppose that an affront
was intended. The social condition of the Americans naturally accustoms them not to take offence
in small matters; and, on the other hand, the democratic freedom which they enjoy transfuses
this same mildness of temper into the character of the nation. The political institutions of
the United States constantly bring citizens of all ranks into contact, and compel them to pursue
great undertakings in concert. People thus engaged have scarcely time to attend to the details
of etiquette, and they are besides too strongly interested in living harmoniously for them
to stick at such things. They therefore soon acquire a habit of considering the feelings and
opinions of those whom they meet more than their manners, and they do not allow themselves
to be annoyed by trifles.

I have often remarked in the United States that it is not easy to make a man understand that
his presence may be dispensed with; hints will not always suffice to shake him off. I contradict
an American at every word he says, to show him that his conversation bores me; he instantly
labors with fresh pertinacity to convince me; I preserve a dogged silence, and he thinks I
am meditating deeply on the truths which he is uttering; at last I rush from his company, and
he supposes that some urgent business hurries me elsewhere. This man will never understand
that he wearies me to extinction unless I tell him so: and the only way to get rid of him is
to make him my enemy for life.

It appears surprising at first sight that the same man transported to Europe suddenly becomes
so sensitive and captious, that I often find it as difficult to avoid offending him here as
it was to put him out of countenance. These two opposite effects proceed from the same cause.
Democratic institutions generally give men a lofty notion of their country and of themselves.
An American leaves his country with a heart swollen with pride; on arriving in Europe he at
once finds out that we are not so engrossed by the United States and the great people which
inhabits them as he had supposed, and this begins to annoy him. He has been informed that the
conditions of society are not equal in our part of the globe, and he observes that among the
nations of Europe the traces of rank are not wholly obliterated; that wealth and birth still
retain some indeterminate privileges, which force themselves upon his notice whilst they elude
definition. He is therefore profoundly ignorant of the place which he ought to occupy in this
half-ruined scale of classes, which are sufficiently distinct to hate and despise each other,
yet sufficiently alike for him to be always confounding them. He is afraid of ranging himself
too high--still more is he afraid of being ranged too low; this twofold peril keeps his mind
constantly on the stretch, and embarrasses all he says and does. He learns from tradition that
in Europe ceremonial observances were infinitely varied according to different ranks; this
recollection of former times completes his perplexity, and he is the more afraid of not obtaining
those marks of respect which are due to him, as he does not exactly know in what they consist.
He is like a man surrounded by traps: society is not a recreation for him, but a serious toil:
he weighs your least actions, interrogates your looks, and scrutinizes all you say, lest there
should be some hidden allusion to affront him. I doubt whether there was ever a provincial
man of quality so punctilious in breeding as he is: he endeavors to attend to the slightest
rules of etiquette, and does not allow one of them to be waived towards himself: he is full
of scruples and at the same time of pretensions; he wishes to do enough, but fears to do too
much; and as he does not very well know the limits of the one or of the other, he keeps up
a haughty and embarrassed air of reserve.

But this is not all: here is yet another double of the human heart. An American is forever
talking of the admirable equality which prevails in the United States; aloud he makes it the
boast of his country, but in secret he deplores it for himself; and he aspires to show that,
for his part, he is an exception to the general state of things which he vaunts. There is hardly
an American to be met with who does not claim some remote kindred with the first founders of
the colonies; and as for the scions of the noble families of England, America seemed to me
to be covered with them. When an opulent American arrives in Europe, his first care is to surround
himself with all the luxuries of wealth: he is so afraid of being taken for the plain citizen
of a democracy, that he adopts a hundred distorted ways of bringing some new instance of his
wealth before you every day. His house will be in the most fashionable part of the town: he
will always be surrounded by a host of servants. I have heard an American complain, that in
the best houses of Paris the society was rather mixed; the taste which prevails there was not
pure enough for him; and he ventured to hint that, in his opinion, there was a want of elegance
of manner; he could not accustom himself to see wit concealed under such unpretending forms.

These contrasts ought not to surprise us. If the vestiges of former aristocratic distinctions
were not so completely effaced in the United States, the Americans would be less simple and
less tolerant in their own country--they would require less, and be less fond of borrowed manners
in ours.

Chapter IV: Consequences Of The Three Preceding Chapters

When men feel a natural compassion for their mutual sufferings--when they are brought together
by easy and frequent intercourse, and no sensitive feelings keep them asunder--it may readily
be supposed that they will lend assistance to one another whenever it is needed. When an American
asks for the co-operation of his fellow-citizens it is seldom refused, and I have often seen
it afforded spontaneously and with great goodwill. If an accident happens on the highway, everybody
hastens to help the sufferer; if some great and sudden calamity befalls a family, the purses
of a thousand strangers are at once willingly opened, and small but numerous donations pour
in to relieve their distress. It often happens amongst the most civilized nations of the globe,
that a poor wretch is as friendless in the midst of a crowd as the savage in his wilds: this
is hardly ever the case in the United States. The Americans, who are always cold and often
coarse in their manners, seldom show insensibility; and if they do not proffer services eagerly,
yet they do not refuse to render them.

All this is not in contradiction to what I have said before on the subject of individualism.
The two things are so far from combating each other, that I can see how they agree. Equality
of conditions, whilst it makes men feel their independence, shows them their own weakness:
they are free, but exposed to a thousand accidents; and experience soon teaches them that,
although they do not habitually require the assistance of others, a time almost always comes
when they cannot do without it. We constantly see in Europe that men of the same profession
are ever ready to assist each other; they are all exposed to the same ills, and that is enough
to teach them to seek mutual preservatives, however hard-hearted and selfish they may otherwise
be. When one of them falls into danger, from which the others may save him by a slight transient
sacrifice or a sudden effort, they do not fail to make the attempt. Not that they are deeply
interested in his fate; for if, by chance, their exertions are unavailing, they immediately
forget the object of them, and return to their own business; but a sort of tacit and almost
involuntary agreement has been passed between them, by which each one owes to the others a
temporary support which he may claim for himself in turn. Extend to a people the remark here
applied to a class, and you will understand my meaning. A similar covenant exists in fact between
all the citizens of a democracy: they all feel themselves subject to the same weakness and
the same dangers; and their interest, as well as their sympathy, makes it a rule with them
to lend each other mutual assistance when required. The more equal social conditions become,
the more do men display this reciprocal disposition to oblige each other. In democracies no
great benefits are conferred, but good offices are constantly rendered: a man seldom displays
self-devotion, but all men are ready to be of service to one another.

Chapter V: How Democracy Affects the Relation Of Masters And Servants

An American who had travelled for a long time in Europe once said to me, "The English treat
their servants with a stiffness and imperiousness of manner which surprise us; but on the other
hand the French sometimes treat their attendants with a degree of familiarity or of politeness
which we cannot conceive. It looks as if they were afraid to give orders: the posture of the
superior and the inferior is ill-maintained." The remark was a just one, and I have often made
it myself. I have always considered England as the country in the world where, in our time,
the bond of domestic service is drawn most tightly, and France as the country where it is most
relaxed. Nowhere have I seen masters stand so high or so low as in these two countries. Between
these two extremes the Americans are to be placed. Such is the fact as it appears upon the
surface of things: to discover the causes of that fact, it is necessary to search the matter
thoroughly.

No communities have ever yet existed in which social conditions have been so equal that there
were neither rich nor poor, and consequently neither masters nor servants. Democracy does not
prevent the existence of these two classes, but it changes their dispositions and modifies
their mutual relations. Amongst aristocratic nations servants form a distinct class, not more
variously composed than that of masters. A settled order is soon established; in the former
as well as in the latter class a scale is formed, with numerous distinctions or marked gradations
of rank, and generations succeed each other thus without any change of position. These two
communities are superposed one above the other, always distinct, but regulated by analogous
principles. This aristocratic constitution does not exert a less powerful influence on the
notions and manners of servants than on those of masters; and, although the effects are different,
the same cause may easily be traced. Both classes constitute small communities in the heart
of the nation, and certain permanent notions of right and wrong are ultimately engendered amongst
them. The different acts of human life are viewed by one particular and unchanging light. In
the society of servants, as in that of masters, men exercise a great influence over each other:
they acknowledge settled rules, and in the absence of law they are guided by a sort of public
opinion: their habits are settled, and their conduct is placed under a certain control.

These men, whose destiny is to obey, certainly do not understand fame, virtue, honesty, and
honor in the same manner as their masters; but they have a pride, a virtue, and an honesty
pertaining to their condition; and they have a notion, if I may use the expression, of a sort
of servile honor. *a Because a class is mean, it must not be supposed that all who belong to
it are mean-hearted; to think so would be a great mistake. However lowly it may be, he who
is foremost there, and who has no notion of quitting it, occupies an aristocratic position
which inspires him with lofty feelings, pride, and self-respect, that fit him for the higher
virtues and actions above the common. Amongst aristocratic nations it was by no means rare
to find men of noble and vigorous minds in the service of the great, who felt not the servitude
they bore, and who submitted to the will of their masters without any fear of their displeasure.
But this was hardly ever the case amongst the inferior ranks of domestic servants. It may be
imagined that he who occupies the lowest stage of the order of menials stands very low indeed.
The French created a word on purpose to designate the servants of the aristocracy--they called
them lackeys. This word "lackey" served as the strongest expression, when all others were exhausted,
to designate human meanness. Under the old French monarchy, to denote by a single expression
a low-spirited contemptible fellow, it was usual to say that he had the "soul of a lackey";
the term was enough to convey all that was intended. [Footnote a: If the principal opinions
by which men are guided are examined closely and in detail, the analogy appears still more
striking, and one is surprised to find amongst them, just as much as amongst the haughtiest
scions of a feudal race, pride of birth, respect for their ancestry and their descendants,
disdain of their inferiors, a dread of contact, a taste for etiquette, precedents, and antiquity.]

The permanent inequality of conditions not only gives servants certain peculiar virtues and
vices, but it places them in a peculiar relation with respect to their masters. Amongst aristocratic
nations the poor man is familiarized from his childhood with the notion of being commanded:
to whichever side he turns his eyes the graduated structure of society and the aspect of obedience
meet his view. Hence in those countries the master readily obtains prompt, complete, respectful,
and easy obedience from his servants, because they revere in him not only their master but
the class of masters. He weighs down their will by the whole weight of the aristocracy. He
orders their actions--to a certain extent he even directs their thoughts. In aristocracies
the master often exercises, even without being aware of it, an amazing sway over the opinions,
the habits, and the manners of those who obey him, and his influence extends even further than
his authority.

In aristocratic communities there are not only hereditary families of servants as well as of
masters, but the same families of servants adhere for several generations to the same families
of masters (like two parallel lines which neither meet nor separate); and this considerably
modifies the mutual relations of these two classes of persons. Thus, although in aristocratic
society the master and servant have no natural resemblance--although, on the contrary, they
are placed at an immense distance on the scale of human beings by their fortune, education,
and opinions--yet time ultimately binds them together. They are connected by a long series
of common reminiscences, and however different they may be, they grow alike; whilst in democracies,
where they are naturally almost alike, they always remain strangers to each other. Amongst
an aristocratic people the master gets to look upon his servants as an inferior and secondary
part of himself, and he often takes an interest in their lot by a last stretch of egotism.

Servants, on their part, are not averse to regard themselves in the same light; and they sometimes
identify themselves with the person of the master, so that they become an appendage to him
in their own eyes as well as in his. In aristocracies a servant fills a subordinate position
which he cannot get out of; above him is another man, holding a superior rank which he cannot
lose. On one side are obscurity, poverty, obedience for life; on the other, and also for life,
fame, wealth, and command. The two conditions are always distinct and always in propinquity;
the tie that connects them is as lasting as they are themselves. In this predicament the servant
ultimately detaches his notion of interest from his own person; he deserts himself, as it were,
or rather he transports himself into the character of his master, and thus assumes an imaginary
personality. He complacently invests himself with the wealth of those who command him; he shares
their fame, exalts himself by their rank, and feeds his mind with borrowed greatness, to which
he attaches more importance than those who fully and really possess it. There is something
touching, and at the same time ridiculous, in this strange confusion of two different states
of being. These passions of masters, when they pass into the souls of menials, assume the natural
dimensions of the place they occupy--they are contracted and lowered. What was pride in the
former becomes puerile vanity and paltry ostentation in the latter. The servants of a great
man are commonly most punctilious as to the marks of respect due to him, and they attach more
importance to his slightest privileges than he does himself. In France a few of these old servants
of the aristocracy are still to be met with here and there; they have survived their race,
which will soon disappear with them altogether. In the United States I never saw anyone at
all like them. The Americans are not only unacquainted with the kind of man, but it is hardly
possible to make them understand that such ever existed. It is scarcely less difficult for
them to conceive it, than for us to form a correct notion of what a slave was amongst the Romans,
or a serf in the Middle Ages. All these men were in fact, though in different degrees, results
of the same cause: they are all retiring from our sight, and disappearing in the obscurity
of the past, together with the social condition to which they owed their origin.

Equality of conditions turns servants and masters into new beings, and places them in new relative
positions. When social conditions are nearly equal, men are constantly changing their situations
in life: there is still a class of menials and a class of masters, but these classes are not
always composed of the same individuals, still less of the same families; and those who command
are not more secure of perpetuity than those who obey. As servants do not form a separate people,
they have no habits, prejudices, or manners peculiar to themselves; they are not remarkable
for any particular turn of mind or moods of feeling. They know no vices or virtues of their
condition, but they partake of the education, the opinions, the feelings, the virtues, and
the vices of their contemporaries; and they are honest men or scoundrels in the same way as
their masters are. The conditions of servants are not less equal than those of masters. As
no marked ranks or fixed subordination are to be found amongst them, they will not display
either the meanness or the greatness which characterizes the aristocracy of menials as well
as all other aristocracies. I never saw a man in the United States who reminded me of that
class of confidential servants of which we still retain a reminiscence in Europe, neither did
I ever meet with such a thing as a lackey: all traces of the one and of the other have disappeared.

In democracies servants are not only equal amongst themselves, but it may be said that they
are in some sort the equals of their masters. This requires explanation in order to be rightly
understood. At any moment a servant may become a master, and he aspires to rise to that condition:
the servant is therefore not a different man from the master. Why then has the former a right
to command, and what compels the latter to obey?--the free and temporary consent of both their
wills. Neither of them is by nature inferior to the other; they only become so for a time by
covenant. Within the terms of this covenant, the one is a servant, the other a master; beyond
it they are two citizens of the commonwealth--two men. I beg the reader particularly to observe
that this is not only the notion which servants themselves entertain of their own condition;
domestic service is looked upon by masters in the same light; and the precise limits of authority
and obedience are as clearly settled in the mind of the one as in that of the other.

When the greater part of the community have long attained a condition nearly alike, and when
equality is an old and acknowledged fact, the public mind, which is never affected by exceptions,
assigns certain general limits to the value of man, above or below which no man can long remain
placed. It is in vain that wealth and poverty, authority and obedience, accidentally interpose
great distances between two men; public opinion, founded upon the usual order of things, draws
them to a common level, and creates a species of imaginary equality between them, in spite
of the real inequality of their conditions. This all-powerful opinion penetrates at length
even into the hearts of those whose interest might arm them to resist it; it affects their
judgment whilst it subdues their will. In their inmost convictions the master and the servant
no longer perceive any deep-seated difference between them, and they neither hope nor fear
to meet with any such at any time. They are therefore neither subject to disdain nor to anger,
and they discern in each other neither humility nor pride. The master holds the contract of
service to be the only source of his power, and the servant regards it as the only cause of
his obedience. They do not quarrel about their reciprocal situations, but each knows his own
and keeps it.

In the French army the common soldier is taken from nearly the same classes as the officer,
and may hold the same commissions; out of the ranks he considers himself entirely equal to
his military superiors, and in point of fact he is so; but when under arms he does not hesitate
to obey, and his obedience is not the less prompt, precise, and ready, for being voluntary
and defined. This example may give a notion of what takes place between masters and servants
in democratic communities.

It would be preposterous to suppose that those warm and deep-seated affections, which are sometimes
kindled in the domestic service of aristocracy, will ever spring up between these two men,
or that they will exhibit strong instances of self-sacrifice. In aristocracies masters and
servants live apart, and frequently their only intercourse is through a third person; yet they
commonly stand firmly by one another. In democratic countries the master and the servant are
close together; they are in daily personal contact, but their minds do not intermingle; they
have common occupations, hardly ever common interests. Amongst such a people the servant always
considers himself as a sojourner in the dwelling of his masters. He knew nothing of their forefathers--he
will see nothing of their descendants--he has nothing lasting to expect from their hand. Why
then should he confound his life with theirs, and whence should so strange a surrender of himself
proceed? The reciprocal position of the two men is changed--their mutual relations must be so too.

I would fain illustrate all these reflections by the example of the Americans; but for this
purpose the distinctions of persons and places must be accurately traced. In the South of the
Union, slavery exists; all that I have just said is consequently inapplicable there. In the
North, the majority of servants are either freedmen or the children of freedmen; these persons
occupy a contested position in the public estimation; by the laws they are brought up to the
level of their masters--by the manners of the country they are obstinately detruded from it.
They do not themselves clearly know their proper place, and they are almost always either insolent
or craven. But in the Northern States, especially in New England, there are a certain number
of whites, who agree, for wages, to yield a temporary obedience to the will of their fellow-citizens.
I have heard that these servants commonly perform the duties of their situation with punctuality
and intelligence; and that without thinking themselves naturally inferior to the person who
orders them, they submit without reluctance to obey him. They appear to me to carry into service
some of those manly habits which independence and equality engender. Having once selected a
hard way of life, they do not seek to escape from it by indirect means; and they have sufficient
respect for themselves, not to refuse to their master that obedience which they have freely
promised. On their part, masters require nothing of their servants but the faithful and rigorous
performance of the covenant: they do not ask for marks of respect, they do not claim their
love or devoted attachment; it is enough that, as servants, they are exact and honest. It would
not then be true to assert that, in democratic society, the relation of servants and masters
is disorganized: it is organized on another footing; the rule is different, but there is a rule.

It is not my purpose to inquire whether the new state of things which I have just described
is inferior to that which preceded it, or simply different. Enough for me that it is fixed
and determined: for what is most important to meet with among men is not any given ordering,
but order. But what shall I say of those sad and troubled times at which equality is established
in the midst of the tumult of revolution--when democracy, after having been introduced into
the state of society, still struggles with difficulty against the prejudices and manners of
the country? The laws, and partially public opinion, already declare that no natural or permanent
inferiority exists between the servant and the master. But this new belief has not yet reached
the innermost convictions of the latter, or rather his heart rejects it; in the secret persuasion
of his mind the master thinks that he belongs to a peculiar and superior race; he dares not
say so, but he shudders whilst he allows himself to be dragged to the same level. His authority
over his servants becomes timid and at the same time harsh: he has already ceased to entertain
for them the feelings of patronizing kindness which long uncontested power always engenders,
and he is surprised that, being changed himself, his servant changes also. He wants his attendants
to form regular and permanent habits, in a condition of domestic service which is only temporary:
he requires that they should appear contented with and proud of a servile condition, which
they will one day shake off--that they should sacrifice themselves to a man who can neither
protect nor ruin them--and in short that they should contract an indissoluble engagement to
a being like themselves, and one who will last no longer than they will.

Amongst aristocratic nations it often happens that the condition of domestic service does not
degrade the character of those who enter upon it, because they neither know nor imagine any
other; and the amazing inequality which is manifest between them and their master appears to
be the necessary and unavoidable consequence of some hidden law of Providence. In democracies
the condition of domestic service does not degrade the character of those who enter upon it,
because it is freely chosen, and adopted for a time only; because it is not stigmatized by
public opinion, and creates no permanent inequality between the servant and the master. But
whilst the transition from one social condition to another is going on, there is almost always
a time when men's minds fluctuate between the aristocratic notion of subjection and the democratic
notion of obedience. Obedience then loses its moral importance in the eyes of him who obeys;
he no longer considers it as a species of divine obligation, and he does not yet view it under
its purely human aspect; it has to him no character of sanctity or of justice, and he submits
to it as to a degrading but profitable condition. At that moment a confused and imperfect phantom
of equality haunts the minds of servants; they do not at once perceive whether the equality
to which they are entitled is to be found within or without the pale of domestic service; and
they rebel in their hearts against a subordination to which they have subjected themselves,
and from which they derive actual profit. They consent to serve, and they blush to obey; they
like the advantages of service, but not the master; or rather, they are not sure that they
ought not themselves to be masters, and they are inclined to consider him who orders them as
an unjust usurper of their own rights. Then it is that the dwelling of every citizen offers
a spectacle somewhat analogous to the gloomy aspect of political society. A secret and intestine
warfare is going on there between powers, ever rivals and suspicious of one another: the master
is ill-natured and weak, the servant ill-natured and intractable; the one constantly attempts
to evade by unfair restrictions his obligation to protect and to remunerate--the other his
obligation to obey. The reins of domestic government dangle between them, to be snatched at
by one or the other. The lines which divide authority from oppression, liberty from license,
and right from might, are to their eyes so jumbled together and confused, that no one knows
exactly what he is, or what he may be, or what he ought to be. Such a condition is not democracy,
but revolution.

Chapter VI: That Democratic Institutions And Manners Tend To Raise Rents And Shorten The Terms
Of Leases

What has been said of servants and masters is applicable, to a certain extent, to landowners
and farming tenants; but this subject deserves to be considered by itself. In America there
are, properly speaking, no tenant farmers; every man owns the ground he tills. It must be admitted
that democratic laws tend greatly to increase the number of landowners, and to diminish that
of farming tenants. Yet what takes place in the United States is much less attributable to
the institutions of the country than to the country itself. In America land is cheap, and anyone
may easily become a landowner; its returns are small, and its produce cannot well be divided
between a landowner and a farmer. America therefore stands alone in this as well as in many
other respects, and it would be a mistake to take it as an example.

I believe that in democratic as well as in aristocratic countries there will be landowners
and tenants, but the connection existing between them will be of a different kind. In aristocracies
the hire of a farm is paid to the landlord, not only in rent, but in respect, regard, and duty;
in democracies the whole is paid in cash. When estates are divided and passed from hand to
hand, and the permanent connection which existed between families and the soil is dissolved,
the landowner and the tenant are only casually brought into contact. They meet for a moment
to settle the conditions of the agreement, and then lose sight of each other; they are two
strangers brought together by a common interest, and who keenly talk over a matter of business,
the sole object of which is to make money.

In proportion as property is subdivided and wealth distributed over the country, the community
is filled with people whose former opulence is declining, and with others whose fortunes are
of recent growth and whose wants increase more rapidly than their resources. For all such persons
the smallest pecuniary profit is a matter of importance, and none of them feel disposed to
waive any of their claims, or to lose any portion of their income. As ranks are intermingled,
and as very large as well as very scanty fortunes become more rare, every day brings the social
condition of the landowner nearer to that of the farmer; the one has not naturally any uncontested
superiority over the other; between two men who are equal, and not at ease in their circumstances,
the contract of hire is exclusively an affair of money. A man whose estate extends over a whole
district, and who owns a hundred farms, is well aware of the importance of gaining at the same
time the affections of some thousands of men; this object appears to call for his exertions,
and to attain it he will readily make considerable sacrifices. But he who owns a hundred acres
is insensible to similar considerations, and he cares but little to win the private regard
of his tenant.

An aristocracy does not expire like a man in a single day; the aristocratic principle is slowly
undermined in men's opinion, before it is attacked in their laws. Long before open war is declared
against it, the tie which had hitherto united the higher classes to the lower may be seen to
be gradually relaxed. Indifference and contempt are betrayed by one class, jealousy and hatred
by the others; the intercourse between rich and poor becomes less frequent and less kind, and
rents are raised. This is not the consequence of a democratic revolution, but its certain harbinger;
for an aristocracy which has lost the affections of the people, once and forever, is like a
tree dead at the root, which is the more easily torn up by the winds the higher its branches
have spread.

In the course of the last fifty years the rents of farms have amazingly increased, not only
in France but throughout the greater part of Europe. The remarkable improvements which have
taken place in agriculture and manufactures within the same period do not suffice in my opinion
to explain this fact; recourse must be had to another cause more powerful and more concealed.
I believe that cause is to be found in the democratic institutions which several European nations
have adopted, and in the democratic passions which more or less agitate all the rest. I have
frequently heard great English landowners congratulate themselves that, at the present day,
they derive a much larger income from their estates than their fathers did. They have perhaps
good reasons to be glad; but most assuredly they know not what they are glad of. They think
they are making a clear gain, when it is in reality only an exchange; their influence is what
they are parting with for cash; and what they gain in money will ere long be lost in power.

There is yet another sign by which it is easy to know that a great democratic revolution is
going on or approaching. In the Middle Ages almost all lands were leased for lives, or for
very long terms; the domestic economy of that period shows that leases for ninety-nine years
were more frequent then than leases for twelve years are now. Men then believed that families
were immortal; men's conditions seemed settled forever, and the whole of society appeared to
be so fixed, that it was not supposed that anything would ever be stirred or shaken in its
structure. In ages of equality, the human mind takes a different bent; the prevailing notion
is that nothing abides, and man is haunted by the thought of mutability. Under this impression
the landowner and the tenant himself are instinctively averse to protracted terms of obligation;
they are afraid of being tied up to-morrow by the contract which benefits them today. They
have vague anticipations of some sudden and unforeseen change in their conditions; they mistrust
themselves; they fear lest their taste should change, and lest they should lament that they
cannot rid themselves of what they coveted; nor are such fears unfounded, for in democratic
ages that which is most fluctuating amidst the fluctuation of all around is the heart of man.

Chapter VII: Influence Of Democracy On Wages

Most of the remarks which I have already made in speaking of servants and masters, may be applied
to masters and workmen. As the gradations of the social scale come to be less observed, whilst
the great sink the humble rise, and as poverty as well as opulence ceases to be hereditary,
the distance both in reality and in opinion, which heretofore separated the workman from the
master, is lessened every day. The workman conceives a more lofty opinion of his rights, of
his future, of himself; he is filled with new ambition and with new desires, he is harassed
by new wants. Every instant he views with longing eyes the profits of his employer; and in
order to share them, he strives to dispose of his labor at a higher rate, and he generally
succeeds at length in the attempt. In democratic countries, as well as elsewhere, most of the
branches of productive industry are carried on at a small cost, by men little removed by their
wealth or education above the level of those whom they employ. These manufacturing speculators
are extremely numerous; their interests differ; they cannot therefore easily concert or combine
their exertions. On the other hand the workmen have almost always some sure resources, which
enable them to refuse to work when they cannot get what they conceive to be the fair price
of their labor. In the constant struggle for wages which is going on between these two classes,
their strength is divided, and success alternates from one to the other. It is even probable
that in the end the interest of the working class must prevail; for the high wages which they
have already obtained make them every day less dependent on their masters; and as they grow
more independent, they have greater facilities for obtaining a further increase of wages.

I shall take for example that branch of productive industry which is still at the present day
the most generally followed in France, and in almost all the countries of the world--I mean
the cultivation of the soil. In France most of those who labor for hire in agriculture, are
themselves owners of certain plots of ground, which just enable them to subsist without working
for anyone else. When these laborers come to offer their services to a neighboring landowner
or farmer, if he refuses them a certain rate of wages, they retire to their own small property
and await another opportunity.

I think that, upon the whole, it may be asserted that a slow and gradual rise of wages is one
of the general laws of democratic communities. In proportion as social conditions become more
equal, wages rise; and as wages are higher, social conditions become more equal. But a great
and gloomy exception occurs in our own time. I have shown in a preceding chapter that aristocracy,
expelled from political society, has taken refuge in certain departments of productive industry,
and has established its sway there under another form; this powerfully affects the rate of
wages. As a large capital is required to embark in the great manufacturing speculations to
which I allude, the number of persons who enter upon them is exceedingly limited: as their
number is small, they can easily concert together, and fix the rate of wages as they please.
Their workmen on the contrary are exceedingly numerous, and the number of them is always increasing;
for, from time to time, an extraordinary run of business takes place, during which wages are
inordinately high, and they attract the surrounding population to the factories. But, when
once men have embraced that line of life, we have already seen that they cannot quit it again,
because they soon contract habits of body and mind which unfit them for any other sort of toil.
These men have generally but little education and industry, with but few resources; they stand
therefore almost at the mercy of the master. When competition, or other fortuitous circumstances,
lessen his profits, he can reduce the wages of his workmen almost at pleasure, and make from
them what he loses by the chances of business. Should the workmen strike, the master, who is
a rich man, can very well wait without being ruined until necessity brings them back to him;
but they must work day by day or they die, for their only property is in their hands. They
have long been impoverished by oppression, and the poorer they become the more easily may they
be oppressed: they can never escape from this fatal circle of cause and consequence. It is
not then surprising that wages, after having sometimes suddenly risen, are permanently lowered
in this branch of industry; whereas in other callings the price of labor, which generally increases
but little, is nevertheless constantly augmented.

This state of dependence and wretchedness, in which a part of the manufacturing population
of our time lives, forms an exception to the general rule, contrary to the state of all the
rest of the community; but, for this very reason, no circumstance is more important or more
deserving of the especial consideration of the legislator; for when the whole of society is
in motion, it is difficult to keep any one class stationary; and when the greater number of
men are opening new paths to fortune, it is no less difficult to make the few support in peace
their wants and their desires.

Chapter VIII: Influence Of Democracy On Kindred

I have just examined the changes which the equality of conditions produces in the mutual relations
of the several members of the community amongst democratic nations, and amongst the Americans
in particular. I would now go deeper, and inquire into the closer ties of kindred: my object
here is not to seek for new truths, but to show in what manner facts already known are connected
with my subject.

It has been universally remarked, that in our time the several members of a family stand upon
an entirely new footing towards each other; that the distance which formerly separated a father
from his sons has been lessened; and that paternal authority, if not destroyed, is at least
impaired. Something analogous to this, but even more striking, may be observed in the United
States. In America the family, in the Roman and aristocratic signification of the word, does
not exist. All that remains of it are a few vestiges in the first years of childhood, when
the father exercises, without opposition, that absolute domestic authority, which the feebleness
of his children renders necessary, and which their interest, as well as his own incontestable
superiority, warrants. But as soon as the young American approaches manhood, the ties of filial
obedience are relaxed day by day: master of his thoughts, he is soon master of his conduct.
In America there is, strictly speaking, no adolescence: at the close of boyhood the man appears,
and begins to trace out his own path. It would be an error to suppose that this is preceded
by a domestic struggle, in which the son has obtained by a sort of moral violence the liberty
that his father refused him. The same habits, the same principles which impel the one to assert
his independence, predispose the other to consider the use of that independence as an incontestable
right. The former does not exhibit any of those rancorous or irregular passions which disturb
men long after they have shaken off an established authority; the latter feels none of that
bitter and angry regret which is apt to survive a bygone power. The father foresees the limits
of his authority long beforehand, and when the time arrives he surrenders it without a struggle:
the son looks forward to the exact period at which he will be his own master; and he enters
upon his freedom without precipitation and without effort, as a possession which is his own
and which no one seeks to wrest from him. *a

[Footnote a: The Americans, however, have not yet thought fit to strip the parent, as has been
done in France, of one of the chief elements of parental authority, by depriving him of the
power of disposing of his property at his death. In the United States there are no restrictions
on the powers of a testator. In this respect, as in almost all others, it is easy to perceive,
that if the political legislation of the Americans is much more democratic than that of the
French, the civil legislation of the latter is infinitely more democratic than that of the
former. This may easily be accounted for. The civil legislation of France was the work of a
man who saw that it was his interest to satisfy the democratic passions of his contemporaries
in all that was not directly and immediately hostile to his own power. He was willing to allow
some popular principles to regulate the distribution of property and the government of families,
provided they were not to be introduced into the administration of public affairs. Whilst the
torrent of democracy overwhelmed the civil laws of the country, he hoped to find an easy shelter
behind its political institutions. This policy was at once both adroit and selfish; but a compromise
of this kind could not last; for in the end political institutions never fail to become the
image and expression of civil society; and in this sense it may be said that nothing is more
political in a nation than its civil legislation.]

It may perhaps not be without utility to show how these changes which take place in family
relations, are closely connected with the social and political revolution which is approaching
its consummation under our own observation. There are certain great social principles, which
a people either introduces everywhere, or tolerates nowhere. In countries which are aristocratically
constituted with all the gradations of rank, the government never makes a direct appeal to
the mass of the governed: as men are united together, it is enough to lead the foremost, the
rest will follow. This is equally applicable to the family, as to all aristocracies which have
a head. Amongst aristocratic nations, social institutions recognize, in truth, no one in the
family but the father; children are received by society at his hands; society governs him,
he governs them. Thus the parent has not only a natural right, but he acquires a political
right, to command them: he is the author and the support of his family; but he is also its
constituted ruler. In democracies, where the government picks out every individual singly from
the mass, to make him subservient to the general laws of the community, no such intermediate
person is required: a father is there, in the eye of the law, only a member of the community,
older and richer than his sons.

When most of the conditions of life are extremely unequal, and the inequality of these conditions
is permanent, the notion of a superior grows upon the imaginations of men: if the law invested
him with no privileges, custom and public opinion would concede them. When, on the contrary,
men differ but little from each other, and do not always remain in dissimilar conditions of
life, the general notion of a superior becomes weaker and less distinct: it is vain for legislation
to strive to place him who obeys very much beneath him who commands; the manners of the time
bring the two men nearer to one another, and draw them daily towards the same level. Although
the legislation of an aristocratic people should grant no peculiar privileges to the heads
of families; I shall not be the less convinced that their power is more respected and more
extensive than in a democracy; for I know that, whatsoever the laws may be, superiors always
appear higher and inferiors lower in aristocracies than amongst democratic nations.

When men live more for the remembrance of what has been than for the care of what is, and when
they are more given to attend to what their ancestors thought than to think themselves, the
father is the natural and necessary tie between the past and the present--the link by which
the ends of these two chains are connected. In aristocracies, then, the father is not only
the civil head of the family, but the oracle of its traditions, the expounder of its customs,
the arbiter of its manners. He is listened to with deference, he is addressed with respect,
and the love which is felt for him is always tempered with fear. When the condition of society
becomes democratic, and men adopt as their general principle that it is good and lawful to
judge of all things for one's self, using former points of belief not as a rule of faith but
simply as a means of information, the power which the opinions of a father exercise over those
of his sons diminishes as well as his legal power.

Perhaps the subdivision of estates which democracy brings with it contributes more than anything
else to change the relations existing between a father and his children. When the property
of the father of a family is scanty, his son and himself constantly live in the same place,
and share the same occupations: habit and necessity bring them together, and force them to
hold constant communication: the inevitable consequence is a sort of familiar intimacy, which
renders authority less absolute, and which can ill be reconciled with the external forms of
respect. Now in democratic countries the class of those who are possessed of small fortunes
is precisely that which gives strength to the notions, and a particular direction to the manners,
of the community. That class makes its opinions preponderate as universally as its will, and
even those who are most inclined to resist its commands are carried away in the end by its
example. I have known eager opponents of democracy who allowed their children to address them
with perfect colloquial equality.

Thus, at the same time that the power of aristocracy is declining, the austere, the conventional,
and the legal part of parental authority vanishes, and a species of equality prevails around
the domestic hearth. I know not, upon the whole, whether society loses by the change, but I
am inclined to believe that man individually is a gainer by it. I think that, in proportion
as manners and laws become more democratic, the relation of father and son becomes more intimate
and more affectionate; rules and authority are less talked of; confidence and tenderness are
oftentimes increased, and it would seem that the natural bond is drawn closer in proportion
as the social bond is loosened. In a democratic family the father exercises no other power
than that with which men love to invest the affection and the experience of age; his orders
would perhaps be disobeyed, but his advice is for the most part authoritative. Though he be
not hedged in with ceremonial respect, his sons at least accost him with confidence; no settled
form of speech is appropriated to the mode of addressing him, but they speak to him constantly,
and are ready to consult him day by day; the master and the constituted ruler have vanished--the
father remains. Nothing more is needed, in order to judge of the difference between the two
states of society in this respect, than to peruse the family correspondence of aristocratic
ages. The style is always correct, ceremonious, stiff, and so cold that the natural warmth
of the heart can hardly be felt in the language. The language, on the contrary, addressed by
a son to his father in democratic countries is always marked by mingled freedom, familiarity
and affection, which at once show that new relations have sprung up in the bosom of the family.

A similar revolution takes place in the mutual relations of children. In aristocratic families,
as well as in aristocratic society, every place is marked out beforehand. Not only does the
father occupy a separate rank, in which he enjoys extensive privileges, but even the children
are not equal amongst themselves. The age and sex of each irrevocably determine his rank, and
secure to him certain privileges: most of these distinctions are abolished or diminished by
democracy. In aristocratic families the eldest son, inheriting the greater part of the property,
and almost all the rights of the family, becomes the chief, and, to a certain extent, the master,
of his brothers. Greatness and power are for him--for them, mediocrity and dependence. Nevertheless
it would be wrong to suppose that, amongst aristocratic nations, the privileges of the eldest
son are advantageous to himself alone, or that they excite nothing but envy and hatred in those
around him. The eldest son commonly endeavors to procure wealth and power for his brothers,
because the general splendor of the house is reflected back on him who represents it; the younger
sons seek to back the elder brother in all his undertakings, because the greatness and power
of the head of the family better enable him to provide for all its branches. The different
members of an aristocratic family are therefore very closely bound together; their interests
are connected, their minds agree, but their hearts are seldom in harmony.

Democracy also binds brothers to each other, but by very different means. Under democratic
laws all the children are perfectly equal, and consequently independent; nothing brings them
forcibly together, but nothing keeps them apart; and as they have the same origin, as they
are trained under the same roof, as they are treated with the same care, and as no peculiar
privilege distinguishes or divides them, the affectionate and youthful intimacy of early years
easily springs up between them. Scarcely any opportunities occur to break the tie thus formed
at the outset of life; for their brotherhood brings them daily together, without embarrassing
them. It is not, then, by interest, but by common associations and by the free sympathy of
opinion and of taste, that democracy unites brothers to each other. It divides their inheritance,
but it allows their hearts and minds to mingle together. Such is the charm of these democratic
manners, that even the partisans of aristocracy are caught by it; and after having experienced
it for some time, they are by no means tempted to revert to the respectful and frigid observance
of aristocratic families. They would be glad to retain the domestic habits of democracy, if
they might throw off its social conditions and its laws; but these elements are indissolubly
united, and it is impossible to enjoy the former without enduring the latter. The remarks I
have made on filial love and fraternal affection are applicable to all the passions which emanate
spontaneously from human nature itself. If a certain mode of thought or feeling is the result
of some peculiar condition of life, when that condition is altered nothing whatever remains
of the thought or feeling. Thus a law may bind two members of the community very closely to
one another; but that law being abolished, they stand asunder. Nothing was more strict than
the tie which united the vassal to the lord under the feudal system; at the present day the
two men know not each other; the fear, the gratitude, and the affection which formerly connected
them have vanished, and not a vestige of the tie remains. Such, however, is not the case with
those feelings which are natural to mankind. Whenever a law attempts to tutor these feelings
in any particular manner, it seldom fails to weaken them; by attempting to add to their intensity,
it robs them of some of their elements, for they are never stronger than when left to themselves.

Democracy, which destroys or obscures almost all the old conventional rules of society, and
which prevents men from readily assenting to new ones, entirely effaces most of the feelings
to which these conventional rules have given rise; but it only modifies some others, and frequently
imparts to them a degree of energy and sweetness unknown before. Perhaps it is not impossible
to condense into a single proposition the whole meaning of this chapter, and of several others
that preceded it. Democracy loosens social ties, but it draws the ties of nature more tight;
it brings kindred more closely together, whilst it places the various members of the community
more widely apart.

Chapter IX: Education Of Young Women In The United States

No free communities ever existed without morals; and, as I observed in the former part of this
work, morals are the work of woman. Consequently, whatever affects the condition of women,
their habits and their opinions, has great political importance in my eyes. Amongst almost
all Protestant nations young women are far more the mistresses of their own actions than they
are in Catholic countries. This independence is still greater in Protestant countries, like
England, which have retained or acquired the right of self-government; the spirit of freedom
is then infused into the domestic circle by political habits and by religious opinions. In
the United States the doctrines of Protestantism are combined with great political freedom
and a most democratic state of society; and nowhere are young women surrendered so early or
so completely to their own guidance. Long before an American girl arrives at the age of marriage,
her emancipation from maternal control begins; she has scarcely ceased to be a child when she
already thinks for herself, speaks with freedom, and acts on her own impulse. The great scene
of the world is constantly open to her view; far from seeking concealment, it is every day
disclosed to her more completely, and she is taught to survey it with a firm and calm gaze.
Thus the vices and dangers of society are early revealed to her; as she sees them clearly,
she views them without illusions, and braves them without fear; for she is full of reliance
on her own strength, and her reliance seems to be shared by all who are about her. An American
girl scarcely ever displays that virginal bloom in the midst of young desires, or that innocent
and ingenuous grace which usually attends the European woman in the transition from girlhood
to youth. It is rarely that an American woman at any age displays childish timidity or ignorance.
Like the young women of Europe, she seeks to please, but she knows precisely the cost of pleasing.
If she does not abandon herself to evil, at least she knows that it exists; and she is remarkable
rather for purity of manners than for chastity of mind. I have been frequently surprised, and
almost frightened, at the singular address and happy boldness with which young women in America
contrive to manage their thoughts and their language amidst all the difficulties of stimulating
conversation; a philosopher would have stumbled at every step along the narrow path which they
trod without accidents and without effort. It is easy indeed to perceive that, even amidst
the independence of early youth, an American woman is always mistress of herself; she indulges
in all permitted pleasures, without yielding herself up to any of them; and her reason never
allows the reins of self-guidance to drop, though it often seems to hold them loosely.

In France, where remnants of every age are still so strangely mingled in the opinions and tastes
of the people, women commonly receive a reserved, retired, and almost cloistral education,
as they did in aristocratic times; and then they are suddenly abandoned, without a guide and
without assistance, in the midst of all the irregularities inseparable from democratic society.
The Americans are more consistent. They have found out that in a democracy the independence
of individuals cannot fail to be very great, youth premature, tastes ill-restrained, customs
fleeting, public opinion often unsettled and powerless, paternal authority weak, and marital
authority contested. Under these circumstances, believing that they had little chance of repressing
in woman the most vehement passions of the human heart, they held that the surer way was to
teach her the art of combating those passions for herself. As they could not prevent her virtue
from being exposed to frequent danger, they determined that she should know how best to defend
it; and more reliance was placed on the free vigor of her will than on safeguards which have
been shaken or overthrown. Instead, then, of inculcating mistrust of herself, they constantly
seek to enhance their confidence in her own strength of character. As it is neither possible
nor desirable to keep a young woman in perpetual or complete ignorance, they hasten to give
her a precocious knowledge on all subjects. Far from hiding the corruptions of the world from
her, they prefer that she should see them at once and train herself to shun them; and they
hold it of more importance to protect her conduct than to be over-scrupulous of her innocence.

Although the Americans are a very religious people, they do not rely on religion alone to defend
the virtue of woman; they seek to arm her reason also. In this they have followed the same
method as in several other respects; they first make the most vigorous efforts to bring individual
independence to exercise a proper control over itself, and they do not call in the aid of religion
until they have reached the utmost limits of human strength. I am aware that an education of
this kind is not without danger; I am sensible that it tends to invigorate the judgment at
the expense of the imagination, and to make cold and virtuous women instead of affectionate
wives and agreeable companions to man. Society may be more tranquil and better regulated, but
domestic life has often fewer charms. These, however, are secondary evils, which may be braved
for the sake of higher interests. At the stage at which we are now arrived the time for choosing
is no longer within our control; a democratic education is indispensable to protect women from
the dangers with which democratic institutions and manners surround them.

Chapter X: The Young Woman In The Character Of A Wife

In America the independence of woman is irrevocably lost in the bonds of matrimony: if an unmarried
woman is less constrained there than elsewhere, a wife is subjected to stricter obligations.
The former makes her father's house an abode of freedom and of pleasure; the latter lives in
the home of her husband as if it were a cloister. Yet these two different conditions of life
are perhaps not so contrary as may be supposed, and it is natural that the American women should
pass through the one to arrive at the other.

Religious peoples and trading nations entertain peculiarly serious notions of marriage: the
former consider the regularity of woman's life as the best pledge and most certain sign of
the purity of her morals; the latter regard it as the highest security for the order and prosperity
of the household. The Americans are at the same time a puritanical people and a commercial
nation: their religious opinions, as well as their trading habits, consequently lead them to
require much abnegation on the part of woman, and a constant sacrifice of her pleasures to
her duties which is seldom demanded of her in Europe. Thus in the United States the inexorable
opinion of the public carefully circumscribes woman within the narrow circle of domestic interest
and duties, and forbids her to step beyond it.

Upon her entrance into the world a young American woman finds these notions firmly established;
she sees the rules which are derived from them; she is not slow to perceive that she cannot
depart for an instant from the established usages of her contemporaries, without putting in
jeopardy her peace of mind, her honor, nay even her social existence; and she finds the energy
required for such an act of submission in the firmness of her understanding and in the virile
habits which her education has given her. It may be said that she has learned by the use of
her independence to surrender it without a struggle and without a murmur when the time comes
for making the sacrifice. But no American woman falls into the toils of matrimony as into a
snare held out to her simplicity and ignorance. She has been taught beforehand what is expected
of her, and voluntarily and freely does she enter upon this engagement. She supports her new
condition with courage, because she chose it. As in America paternal discipline is very relaxed
and the conjugal tie very strict, a young woman does not contract the latter without considerable
circumspection and apprehension. Precocious marriages are rare. Thus American women do not
marry until their understandings are exercised and ripened; whereas in other countries most
women generally only begin to exercise and to ripen their understandings after marriage.

I by no means suppose, however, that the great change which takes place in all the habits of
women in the United States, as soon as they are married, ought solely to be attributed to the
constraint of public opinion: it is frequently imposed upon themselves by the sole effort of
their own will. When the time for choosing a husband is arrived, that cold and stern reasoning
power which has been educated and invigorated by the free observation of the world, teaches
an American woman that a spirit of levity and independence in the bonds of marriage is a constant
subject of annoyance, not of pleasure; it tells her that the amusements of the girl cannot
become the recreations of the wife, and that the sources of a married woman's happiness are
in the home of her husband. As she clearly discerns beforehand the only road which can lead
to domestic happiness, she enters upon it at once, and follows it to the end without seeking
to turn back. I do not doubt that these young American women had amassed, in the education
of their early years, that inward strength which they displayed under these circumstances.
The early culture of the girl may still therefore be traced, in the United States, under the
aspect of marriage: her part is changed, her habits are different, but her character is the same.

Chapter XI: That The Equality Of Conditions Contributes To The Maintenance Of Good Morals In
America

Some philosophers and historians have said, or have hinted, that the strictness of female morality
was increased or diminished simply by the distance of a country from the equator. This solution
of the difficulty was an easy one; and nothing was required but a globe and a pair of compasses
to settle in an instant one of the most difficult problems in the condition of mankind. But
I am not aware that this principle of the materialists is supported by facts. The same nations
have been chaste or dissolute at different periods of their history; the strictness or the
laxity of their morals depended therefore on some variable cause, not only on the natural qualities
of their country, which were invariable. I do not deny that in certain climates the passions
which are occasioned by the mutual attraction of the sexes are peculiarly intense; but I am
of opinion that this natural intensity may always be excited or restrained by the condition
of society and by political institutions. A superficial glance at the two nations will establish
the fact. No doubt this great regularity of American morals originates partly in the country,
in the race of the people, and in their religion: but all these causes, which operate elsewhere,
do not suffice to account for it; recourse must be had to some special reason. This reason
appears to me to be the principle of equality and the institutions derived from it. Equality
of conditions does not of itself engender regularity of morals, but it unquestionably facilitates
and increases it. *a [Footnote a: See Appendix T.]

Amongst aristocratic nations birth and fortune frequently make two such different beings of
man and woman, that they can never be united to each other. Their passions draw them together,
but the condition of society, and the notions suggested by it, prevent them from contracting
a permanent and ostensible tie. The necessary consequence is a great number of transient and
clandestine connections. Nature secretly avenges herself for the constraint imposed upon her
by the laws of man. This is not so much the case when the equality of conditions has swept
away all the imaginary, or the real, barriers which separated man from woman. No girl then
believes that she cannot become the wife of the man who loves her; and this renders all breaches
of morality before marriage very uncommon: for, whatever be the credulity of the passions,
a woman will hardly be able to persuade herself that she is beloved, when her lover is perfectly
free to marry her and does not.

The same cause operates, though more indirectly, on married life. Nothing better serves to
justify an illicit passion, either to the minds of those who have conceived it or to the world
which looks on, than compulsory or accidental marriages. *b In a country in which a woman is
always free to exercise her power of choosing, and in which education has prepared her to choose
rightly, public opinion is inexorable to her faults. The rigor of the Americans arises in part
from this cause. They consider marriages as a covenant which is often onerous, but every condition
of which the parties are strictly bound to fulfil, because they knew all those conditions beforehand,
and were perfectly free not to have contracted them.

[Footnote b: The literature of Europe sufficiently corroborates this remark. When a European
author wishes to depict in a work of imagination any of these great catastrophes in matrimony
which so frequently occur amongst us, he takes care to bespeak the compassion of the reader
by bringing before him ill-assorted or compulsory marriages. Although habitual tolerance has
long since relaxed our morals, an author could hardly succeed in interesting us in the misfortunes
of his characters, if he did not first palliate their faults. This artifice seldom fails: the
daily scenes we witness prepare us long beforehand to be indulgent. But American writers could
never render these palliations probable to their readers; their customs and laws are opposed
to it; and as they despair of rendering levity of conduct pleasing, they cease to depict it.
This is one of the causes to which must be attributed the small number of novels published
in the United States.]

The very circumstances which render matrimonial fidelity more obligatory also render it more
easy. In aristocratic countries the object of marriage is rather to unite property than persons;
hence the husband is sometimes at school and the wife at nurse when they are betrothed. It
cannot be wondered at if the conjugal tie which holds the fortunes of the pair united allows
their hearts to rove; this is the natural result of the nature of the contract. When, on the
contrary, a man always chooses a wife for himself, without any external coercion or even guidance,
it is generally a conformity of tastes and opinions which brings a man and a woman together,
and this same conformity keeps and fixes them in close habits of intimacy.

Our forefathers had conceived a very strange notion on the subject of marriage: as they had
remarked that the small number of love-matches which occurred in their time almost always turned
out ill, they resolutely inferred that it was exceedingly dangerous to listen to the dictates
of the heart on the subject. Accident appeared to them to be a better guide than choice. Yet
it was not very difficult to perceive that the examples which they witnessed did in fact prove
nothing at all. For in the first place, if democratic nations leave a woman at liberty to choose
her husband, they take care to give her mind sufficient knowledge, and her will sufficient
strength, to make so important a choice: whereas the young women who, amongst aristocratic
nations, furtively elope from the authority of their parents to throw themselves of their own
accord into the arms of men whom they have had neither time to know, nor ability to judge of,
are totally without those securities. It is not surprising that they make a bad use of their
freedom of action the first time they avail themselves of it; nor that they fall into such
cruel mistakes, when, not having received a democratic education, they choose to marry in conformity
to democratic customs. But this is not all. When a man and woman are bent upon marriage in
spite of the differences of an aristocratic state of society, the difficulties to be overcome
are enormous. Having broken or relaxed the bonds of filial obedience, they have then to emancipate
themselves by a final effort from the sway of custom and the tyranny of opinion; and when at
length they have succeeded in this arduous task, they stand estranged from their natural friends
and kinsmen: the prejudice they have crossed separates them from all, and places them in a
situation which soon breaks their courage and sours their hearts. If, then, a couple married
in this manner are first unhappy and afterwards criminal, it ought not to be attributed to
the freedom of their choice, but rather to their living in a community in which this freedom
of choice is not admitted.

Moreover it should not be forgotten that the same effort which makes a man violently shake
off a prevailing error, commonly impels him beyond the bounds of reason; that, to dare to declare
war, in however just a cause, against the opinion of one's age and country, a violent and adventurous
spirit is required, and that men of this character seldom arrive at happiness or virtue, whatever
be the path they follow. And this, it may be observed by the way, is the reason why in the
most necessary and righteous revolutions, it is so rare to meet with virtuous or moderate revolutionary
characters. There is then no just ground for surprise if a man, who in an age of aristocracy
chooses to consult nothing but his own opinion and his own taste in the choice of a wife, soon
finds that infractions of morality and domestic wretchedness invade his household: but when
this same line of action is in the natural and ordinary course of things, when it is sanctioned
by parental authority and backed by public opinion, it cannot be doubted that the internal
peace of families will be increased by it, and conjugal fidelity more rigidly observed.

Almost all men in democracies are engaged in public or professional life; and on the other
hand the limited extent of common incomes obliges a wife to confine herself to the house, in
order to watch in person and very closely over the details of domestic economy. All these distinct
and compulsory occupations are so many natural barriers, which, by keeping the two sexes asunder,
render the solicitations of the one less frequent and less ardent--the resistance of the other
more easy.

Not indeed that the equality of conditions can ever succeed in making men chaste, but it may
impart a less dangerous character to their breaches of morality. As no one has then either
sufficient time or opportunity to assail a virtue armed in self-defence, there will be at the
same time a great number of courtesans and a great number of virtuous women. This state of
things causes lamentable cases of individual hardship, but it does not prevent the body of
society from being strong and alert: it does not destroy family ties, or enervate the morals
of the nation. Society is endangered not by the great profligacy of a few, but by laxity of
morals amongst all. In the eyes of a legislator, prostitution is less to be dreaded than intrigue.

The tumultuous and constantly harassed life which equality makes men lead, not only distracts
them from the passion of love, by denying them time to indulge in it, but it diverts them from
it by another more secret but more certain road. All men who live in democratic ages more or
less contract the ways of thinking of the manufacturing and trading classes; their minds take
a serious, deliberate, and positive turn; they are apt to relinquish the ideal, in order to
pursue some visible and proximate object, which appears to be the natural and necessary aim
of their desires. Thus the principle of equality does not destroy the imagination, but lowers
its flight to the level of the earth. No men are less addicted to reverie than the citizens
of a democracy; and few of them are ever known to give way to those idle and solitary meditations
which commonly precede and produce the great emotions of the heart. It is true they attach
great importance to procuring for themselves that sort of deep, regular, and quiet affection
which constitutes the charm and safeguard of life, but they are not apt to run after those
violent and capricious sources of excitement which disturb and abridge it.

I am aware that all this is only applicable in its full extent to America, and cannot at present
be extended to Europe. In the course of the last half-century, whilst laws and customs have
impelled several European nations with unexampled force towards democracy, we have not had
occasion to observe that the relations of man and woman have become more orderly or more chaste.
In some places the very reverse may be detected: some classes are more strict--the general
morality of the people appears to be more lax. I do not hesitate to make the remark, for I
am as little disposed to flatter my contemporaries as to malign them. This fact must distress,
but it ought not to surprise us. The propitious influence which a democratic state of society
may exercise upon orderly habits, is one of those tendencies which can only be discovered after
a time. If the equality of conditions is favorable to purity of morals, the social commotion
by which conditions are rendered equal is adverse to it. In the last fifty years, during which
France has been undergoing this transformation, that country has rarely had freedom, always
disturbance. Amidst this universal confusion of notions and this general stir of opinions--amidst
this incoherent mixture of the just and unjust, of truth and falsehood, of right and might--public
virtue has become doubtful, and private morality wavering. But all revolutions, whatever may
have been their object or their agents, have at first produced similar consequences; even those
which have in the end drawn the bonds of morality more tightly began by loosening them. The
violations of morality which the French frequently witness do not appear to me to have a permanent
character; and this is already betokened by some curious signs of the times.

Nothing is more wretchedly corrupt than an aristocracy which retains its wealth when it has
lost its power, and which still enjoys a vast deal of leisure after it is reduced to mere vulgar
pastimes. The energetic passions and great conceptions which animated it heretofore, leave
it then; and nothing remains to it but a host of petty consuming vices, which cling about it
like worms upon a carcass. No one denies that the French aristocracy of the last century was
extremely dissolute; whereas established habits and ancient belief still preserved some respect
for morality amongst the other classes of society. Nor will it be contested that at the present
day the remnants of that same aristocracy exhibit a certain severity of morals; whilst laxity
of morals appears to have spread amongst the middle and lower ranks. So that the same families
which were most profligate fifty years ago are nowadays the most exemplary, and democracy seems
only to have strengthened the morality of the aristocratic classes. The French Revolution,
by dividing the fortunes of the nobility, by forcing them to attend assiduously to their affairs
and to their families, by making them live under the same roof with their children, and in
short by giving a more rational and serious turn to their minds, has imparted to them, almost
without their being aware of it, a reverence for religious belief, a love of order, of tranquil
pleasures, of domestic endearments, and of comfort; whereas the rest of the nation, which had
naturally these same tastes, was carried away into excesses by the effort which was required
to overthrow the laws and political habits of the country. The old French aristocracy has undergone
the consequences of the Revolution, but it neither felt the revolutionary passions nor shared
in the anarchical excitement which produced that crisis; it may easily be conceived that this
aristocracy feels the salutary influence of the Revolution in its manners, before those who
achieve it. It may therefore be said, though at first it seems paradoxical, that, at the present
day, the most anti-democratic classes of the nation principally exhibit the kind of morality
which may reasonably be anticipated from democracy. I cannot but think that when we shall have
obtained all the effects of this democratic Revolution, after having got rid of the tumult
it has caused, the observations which are now only applicable to the few will gradually become
true of the whole community.

Chapter XII: How The Americans Understand The Equality Of The Sexes

I Have shown how democracy destroys or modifies the different inequalities which originate
in society; but is this all? or does it not ultimately affect that great inequality of man
and woman which has seemed, up to the present day, to be eternally based in human nature? I
believe that the social changes which bring nearer to the same level the father and son, the
master and servant, and superiors and inferiors generally speaking, will raise woman and make
her more and more the equal of man. But here, more than ever, I feel the necessity of making
myself clearly understood; for there is no subject on which the coarse and lawless fancies
of our age have taken a freer range.

Again, it may be said that in our morals we have reserved strange immunities to man; so that
there is, as it were, one virtue for his use, and another for the guidance of his partner;
and that, according to the opinion of the public, the very same act may be punished alternately
as a crime or only as a fault. The Americans know not this iniquitous division of duties and
rights; amongst them the seducer is as much dishonored as his victim.

The legislators of the United States, who have mitigated almost all the penalties of criminal
law, still make rape a capital offence, and no crime is visited with more inexorable severity
by public opinion. This may be accounted for; as the Americans can conceive nothing more precious
than a woman's honor, and nothing which ought so much to be respected as her independence,
they hold that no punishment is too severe for the man who deprives her of them against her
will. In France, where the same offence is visited with far milder penalties, it is frequently
difficult to get a verdict from a jury against the prisoner. Is this a consequence of contempt
of decency or contempt of women? I cannot but believe that it is a contempt of one and of the
other.

Chapter XIII: That The Principle Of Equality Naturally Divides The Americans Into A Number
Of Small Private Circles

It may probably be supposed that the final consequence and necessary effect of democratic institutions
is to confound together all the members of the community in private as well as in public life,
and to compel them all to live in common; but this would be to ascribe a very coarse and oppressive
form to the equality which originates in democracy. No state of society or laws can render
men so much alike, but that education, fortune, and tastes will interpose some differences
between them; and, though different men may sometimes find it their interest to combine for
the same purposes, they will never make it their pleasure. They will therefore always tend
to evade the provisions of legislation, whatever they may be; and departing in some one respect
from the circle within which they were to be bounded, they will set up, close by the great
political community, small private circles, united together by the similitude of their conditions,
habits, and manners.

In the United States the citizens have no sort of pre-eminence over each other; they owe each
other no mutual obedience or respect; they all meet for the administration of justice, for
the government of the State, and in general to treat of the affairs which concern their common
welfare; but I never heard that attempts have been made to bring them all to follow the same
diversions, or to amuse themselves promiscuously in the same places of recreation. The Americans,
who mingle so readily in their political assemblies and courts of justice, are wont on the
contrary carefully to separate into small distinct circles, in order to indulge by themselves
in the enjoyments of private life. Each of them is willing to acknowledge all his fellow-citizens
as his equals, but he will only receive a very limited number of them amongst his friends or
his guests. This appears to me to be very natural. In proportion as the circle of public society
is extended, it may be anticipated that the sphere of private intercourse will be contracted;
far from supposing that the members of modern society will ultimately live in common, I am
afraid that they may end by forming nothing but small coteries.

Amongst aristocratic nations the different classes are like vast chambers, out of which it
is impossible to get, into which it is impossible to enter. These classes have no communication
with each other, but within their pale men necessarily live in daily contact; even though they
would not naturally suit, the general conformity of a similar condition brings them nearer
together. But when neither law nor custom professes to establish frequent and habitual relations
between certain men, their intercourse originates in the accidental analogy of opinions and
tastes; hence private society is infinitely varied. In democracies, where the members of the
community never differ much from each other, and naturally stand in such propinquity that they
may all at any time be confounded in one general mass, numerous artificial and arbitrary distinctions
spring up, by means of which every man hopes to keep himself aloof, lest he should be carried
away in the crowd against his will. This can never fail to be the case; for human institutions
may be changed, but not man: whatever may be the general endeavor of a community to render
its members equal and alike, the personal pride of individuals will always seek to rise above
the line, and to form somewhere an inequality to their own advantage.

In aristocracies men are separated from each other by lofty stationary barriers; in democracies
they are divided by a number of small and almost invisible threads, which are constantly broken
or moved from place to place. Thus, whatever may be the progress of equality, in democratic
nations a great number of small private communities will always be formed within the general
pale of political society; but none of them will bear any resemblance in its manners to the
highest class in aristocracies.

Chapter XIV: Some Reflections On American Manners

Nothing seems at first sight less important than the outward form of human actions, yet there
is nothing upon which men set more store: they grow used to everything except to living in
a society which has not their own manners. The influence of the social and political state
of a country upon manners is therefore deserving of serious examination. Manners are, generally,
the product of the very basis of the character of a people, but they are also sometimes the
result of an arbitrary convention between certain men; thus they are at once natural and acquired.
When certain men perceive that they are the foremost persons in society, without contestation
and without effort--when they are constantly engaged on large objects, leaving the more minute
details to others--and when they live in the enjoyment of wealth which they did not amass and
which they do not fear to lose, it may be supposed that they feel a kind of haughty disdain
of the petty interests and practical cares of life, and that their thoughts assume a natural
greatness, which their language and their manners denote. In democratic countries manners are
generally devoid of dignity, because private life is there extremely petty in its character;
and they are frequently low, because the mind has few opportunities of rising above the engrossing
cares of domestic interests. True dignity in manners consists in always taking one's proper
station, neither too high nor too low; and this is as much within the reach of a peasant as
of a prince. In democracies all stations appear doubtful; hence it is that the manners of democracies,
though often full of arrogance, are commonly wanting in dignity, and, moreover, they are never
either well disciplined or accomplished.

The men who live in democracies are too fluctuating for a certain number of them ever to succeed
in laying down a code of good breeding, and in forcing people to follow it. Every man therefore
behaves after his own fashion, and there is always a certain incoherence in the manners of
such times, because they are moulded upon the feelings and notions of each individual, rather
than upon an ideal model proposed for general imitation. This, however, is much more perceptible
at the time when an aristocracy has just been overthrown than after it has long been destroyed.
New political institutions and new social elements then bring to the same places of resort,
and frequently compel to live in common, men whose education and habits are still amazingly
dissimilar, and this renders the motley composition of society peculiarly visible. The existence
of a former strict code of good breeding is still remembered, but what it contained or where
it is to be found is already forgotten. Men have lost the common law of manners, and they have
not yet made up their minds to do without it; but everyone endeavors to make to himself some
sort of arbitrary and variable rule, from the remnant of former usages; so that manners have
neither the regularity and the dignity which they often display amongst aristocratic nations,
nor the simplicity and freedom which they sometimes assume in democracies; they are at once
constrained and without constraint.

This, however, is not the normal state of things. When the equality of conditions is long established
and complete, as all men entertain nearly the same notions and do nearly the same things, they
do not require to agree or to copy from one another in order to speak or act in the same manner:
their manners are constantly characterized by a number of lesser diversities, but not by any
great differences. They are never perfectly alike, because they do not copy from the same pattern;
they are never very unlike, because their social condition is the same. At first sight a traveller
would observe that the manners of all the Americans are exactly similar; it is only upon close
examination that the peculiarities in which they differ may be detected.

The English make game of the manners of the Americans; but it is singular that most of the
writers who have drawn these ludicrous delineations belonged themselves to the middle classes
in England, to whom the same delineations are exceedingly applicable: so that these pitiless
censors for the most part furnish an example of the very thing they blame in the United States;
they do not perceive that they are deriding themselves, to the great amusement of the aristocracy
of their own country.

Nothing is more prejudicial to democracy than its outward forms of behavior: many men would
willingly endure its vices, who cannot support its manners. I cannot, however, admit that there
is nothing commendable in the manners of a democratic people. Amongst aristocratic nations,
all who live within reach of the first class in society commonly strain to be like it, which
gives rise to ridiculous and insipid imitations. As a democratic people does not possess any
models of high breeding, at least it escapes the daily necessity of seeing wretched copies
of them. In democracies manners are never so refined as amongst aristocratic nations, but on
the other hand they are never so coarse. Neither the coarse oaths of the populace, nor the
elegant and choice expressions of the nobility are to be heard there: the manners of such a
people are often vulgar, but they are neither brutal nor mean. I have already observed that
in democracies no such thing as a regular code of good breeding can be laid down; this has
some inconveniences and some advantages. In aristocracies the rules of propriety impose the
same demeanor on everyone; they make all the members of the same class appear alike, in spite
of their private inclinations; they adorn and they conceal the natural man. Amongst a democratic
people manners are neither so tutored nor so uniform, but they are frequently more sincere.
They form, as it were, a light and loosely woven veil, through which the real feelings and
private opinions of each individual are easily discernible. The form and the substance of human
actions often, therefore, stand in closer relation; and if the great picture of human life
be less embellished, it is more true. Thus it may be said, in one sense, that the effect of
democracy is not exactly to give men any particular manners, but to prevent them from having
manners at all.

The feelings, the passions, the virtues, and the vices of an aristocracy may sometimes reappear
in a democracy, but not its manners; they are lost, and vanish forever, as soon as the democratic
revolution is completed. It would seem that nothing is more lasting than the manners of an
aristocratic class, for they are preserved by that class for some time after it has lost its
wealth and its power--nor so fleeting, for no sooner have they disappeared than not a trace
of them is to be found; and it is scarcely possible to say what they have been as soon as they
have ceased to be. A change in the state of society works this miracle, and a few generations
suffice to consummate it. The principal characteristics of aristocracy are handed down by history
after an aristocracy is destroyed, but the light and exquisite touches of manners are effaced
from men's memories almost immediately after its fall. Men can no longer conceive what these
manners were when they have ceased to witness them; they are gone, and their departure was
unseen, unfelt; for in order to feel that refined enjoyment which is derived from choice and
distinguished manners, habit and education must have prepared the heart, and the taste for
them is lost almost as easily as the practice of them. Thus not only a democratic people cannot
have aristocratic manners, but they neither comprehend nor desire them; and as they never have
thought of them, it is to their minds as if such things had never been. Too much importance
should not be attached to this loss, but it may well be regretted.

I am aware that it has not unfrequently happened that the same men have had very high-bred
manners and very low-born feelings: the interior of courts has sufficiently shown what imposing
externals may conceal the meanest hearts. But though the manners of aristocracy did not constitute
virtue, they sometimes embellish virtue itself. It was no ordinary sight to see a numerous
and powerful class of men, whose every outward action seemed constantly to be dictated by a
natural elevation of thought and feeling, by delicacy and regularity of taste, and by urbanity
of manners. Those manners threw a pleasing illusory charm over human nature; and though the
picture was often a false one, it could not be viewed without a noble satisfaction.

Chapter XV: Of The Gravity Of The Americans, And Why It Does Not Prevent Them From Often Committing
Inconsiderate Actions

Men who live in democratic countries do not value the simple, turbulent, or coarse diversions
in which the people indulge in aristocratic communities: such diversions are thought by them
to be puerile or insipid. Nor have they a greater inclination for the intellectual and refined
amusements of the aristocratic classes. They want something productive and substantial in their
pleasures; they want to mix actual fruition with their joy. In aristocratic communities the
people readily give themselves up to bursts of tumultuous and boisterous gayety, which shake
off at once the recollection of their privations: the natives of democracies are not fond of
being thus violently broken in upon, and they never lose sight of their own selves without
regret. They prefer to these frivolous delights those more serious and silent amusements which
are like business, and which do not drive business wholly from their minds. An American, instead
of going in a leisure hour to dance merrily at some place of public resort, as the fellows
of his calling continue to do throughout the greater part of Europe, shuts himself up at home
to drink. He thus enjoys two pleasures; he can go on thinking of his business, and he can get
drunk decently by his own fireside.

I thought that the English constituted the most serious nation on the face of the earth, but
I have since seen the Americans and have changed my opinion. I do not mean to say that temperament
has not a great deal to do with the character of the inhabitants of the United States, but
I think that their political institutions are a still more influential cause. I believe the
seriousness of the Americans arises partly from their pride. In democratic countries even poor
men entertain a lofty notion of their personal importance: they look upon themselves with complacency,
and are apt to suppose that others are looking at them, too. With this disposition they watch
their language and their actions with care, and do not lay themselves open so as to betray
their deficiencies; to preserve their dignity they think it necessary to retain their gravity.

But I detect another more deep-seated and powerful cause which instinctively produces amongst
the Americans this astonishing gravity. Under a despotism communities give way at times to
bursts of vehement joy; but they are generally gloomy and moody, because they are afraid. Under
absolute monarchies tempered by the customs and manners of the country, their spirits are often
cheerful and even, because as they have some freedom and a good deal of security, they are
exempted from the most important cares of life; but all free peoples are serious, because their
minds are habitually absorbed by the contemplation of some dangerous or difficult purpose.
This is more especially the case amongst those free nations which form democratic communities.
Then there are in all classes a very large number of men constantly occupied with the serious
affairs of the government; and those whose thoughts are not engaged in the direction of the
commonwealth are wholly engrossed by the acquisition of a private fortune. Amongst such a people
a serious demeanor ceases to be peculiar to certain men, and becomes a habit of the nation.

We are told of small democracies in the days of antiquity, in which the citizens met upon the
public places with garlands of roses, and spent almost all their time in dancing and theatrical
amusements. I do not believe in such republics any more than in that of Plato; or, if the things
we read of really happened, I do not hesitate to affirm that these supposed democracies were
composed of very different elements from ours, and that they had nothing in common with the
latter except their name. But it must not be supposed that, in the midst of all their toils,
the people who live in democracies think themselves to be pitied; the contrary is remarked
to be the case. No men are fonder of their own condition. Life would have no relish for them
if they were delivered from the anxieties which harass them, and they show more attachment
to their cares than aristocratic nations to their pleasures.

I am next led to inquire how it is that these same democratic nations, which are so serious,
sometimes act in so inconsiderate a manner. The Americans, who almost always preserve a staid
demeanor and a frigid air, nevertheless frequently allow themselves to be borne away, far beyond
the bound of reason, by a sudden passion or a hasty opinion, and they sometimes gravely commit
strange absurdities. This contrast ought not to surprise us. There is one sort of ignorance
which originates in extreme publicity. In despotic States men know not how to act, because
they are told nothing; in democratic nations they often act at random, because nothing is to
be left untold. The former do not know--the latter forget; and the chief features of each picture
are lost to them in a bewilderment of details.

It is astonishing what imprudent language a public man may sometimes use in free countries,
and especially in democratic States, without being compromised; whereas in absolute monarchies
a few words dropped by accident are enough to unmask him forever, and ruin him without hope
of redemption. This is explained by what goes before. When a man speaks in the midst of a great
crowd, many of his words are not heard, or are forthwith obliterated from the memories of those
who hear them; but amidst the silence of a mute and motionless throng the slightest whisper
strikes the ear.

In democracies men are never stationary; a thousand chances waft them to and fro, and their
life is always the sport of unforeseen or (so to speak) extemporaneous circumstances. Thus
they are often obliged to do things which they have imperfectly learned, to say things they
imperfectly understand, and to devote themselves to work for which they are unprepared by long
apprenticeship. In aristocracies every man has one sole object which he unceasingly pursues,
but amongst democratic nations the existence of man is more complex; the same mind will almost
always embrace several objects at the same time, and these objects are frequently wholly foreign
to each other: as it cannot know them all well, the mind is readily satisfied with imperfect
notions of each.

When the inhabitant of democracies is not urged by his wants, he is so at least by his desires;
for of all the possessions which he sees around him, none are wholly beyond his reach. He therefore
does everything in a hurry, he is always satisfied with "pretty well," and never pauses more
than an instant to consider what he has been doing. His curiosity is at once insatiable and
cheaply satisfied; for he cares more to know a great deal quickly than to know anything well:
he has no time and but little taste to search things to the bottom. Thus then democratic peoples
are grave, because their social and political condition constantly leads them to engage in
serious occupations; and they act inconsiderately, because they give but little time and attention
to each of these occupations. The habit of inattention must be considered as the greatest bane
of the democratic character.

Chapter XVI: Why The National Vanity Of The Americans Is More Restless And Captious Than That
Of The English

All free nations are vainglorious, but national pride is not displayed by all in the same manner.
The Americans in their intercourse with strangers appear impatient of the smallest censure
and insatiable of praise. The most slender eulogium is acceptable to them; the most exalted
seldom contents them; they unceasingly harass you to extort praise, and if you resist their
entreaties they fall to praising themselves. It would seem as if, doubting their own merit,
they wished to have it constantly exhibited before their eyes. Their vanity is not only greedy,
but restless and jealous; it will grant nothing, whilst it demands everything, but is ready
to beg and to quarrel at the same time. If I say to an American that the country he lives in
is a fine one, "Ay," he replies, "there is not its fellow in the world." If I applaud the freedom
which its inhabitants enjoy, he answers, "Freedom is a fine thing, but few nations are worthy
to enjoy it." If I remark the purity of morals which distinguishes the United States, "I can
imagine," says he, "that a stranger, who has been struck by the corruption of all other nations,
is astonished at the difference." At length I leave him to the contemplation of himself; but
he returns to the charge, and does not desist till he has got me to repeat all I had just been
saying. It is impossible to conceive a more troublesome or more garrulous patriotism; it wearies
even those who are disposed to respect it. *a

[Footnote a: See Appendix U.]

Such is not the case with the English. An Englishman calmly enjoys the real or imaginary advantages
which in his opinion his country possesses. If he grants nothing to other nations, neither
does he solicit anything for his own. The censure of foreigners does not affect him, and their
praise hardly flatters him; his position with regard to the rest of the world is one of disdainful
and ignorant reserve: his pride requires no sustenance, it nourishes itself. It is remarkable
that two nations, so recently sprung from the same stock, should be so opposite to one another
in their manner of feeling and conversing.

In aristocratic countries the great possess immense privileges, upon which their pride rests,
without seeking to rely upon the lesser advantages which accrue to them. As these privileges
came to them by inheritance, they regard them in some sort as a portion of themselves, or at
least as a natural right inherent in their own persons. They therefore entertain a calm sense
of their superiority; they do not dream of vaunting privileges which everyone perceives and
no one contests, and these things are not sufficiently new to them to be made topics of conversation.
They stand unmoved in their solitary greatness, well assured that they are seen of all the
world without any effort to show themselves off, and that no one will attempt to drive them
from that position. When an aristocracy carries on the public affairs, its national pride naturally
assumes this reserved, indifferent, and haughty form, which is imitated by all the other classes
of the nation.

When, on the contrary, social conditions differ but little, the slightest privileges are of
some importance; as every man sees around himself a million of people enjoying precisely similar
or analogous advantages, his pride becomes craving and jealous, he clings to mere trifles,
and doggedly defends them. In democracies, as the conditions of life are very fluctuating,
men have almost always recently acquired the advantages which they possess; the consequence
is that they feel extreme pleasure in exhibiting them, to show others and convince themselves
that they really enjoy them. As at any instant these same advantages may be lost, their possessors
are constantly on the alert, and make a point of showing that they still retain them. Men living
in democracies love their country just as they love themselves, and they transfer the habits
of their private vanity to their vanity as a nation. The restless and insatiable vanity of
a democratic people originates so entirely in the equality and precariousness of social conditions,
that the members of the haughtiest nobility display the very same passion in those lesser portions
of their existence in which there is anything fluctuating or contested. An aristocratic class
always differs greatly from the other classes of the nation, by the extent and perpetuity of
its privileges; but it often happens that the only differences between the members who belong
to it consist in small transient advantages, which may any day be lost or acquired. The members
of a powerful aristocracy, collected in a capital or a court, have been known to contest with
virulence those frivolous privileges which depend on the caprice of fashion or the will of
their master. These persons then displayed towards each other precisely the same puerile jealousies
which animate the men of democracies, the same eagerness to snatch the smallest advantages
which their equals contested, and the same desire to parade ostentatiously those of which they
were in possession. If national pride ever entered into the minds of courtiers, I do not question
that they would display it in the same manner as the members of a democratic community.

Chapter XVII: That The Aspect Of Society In The United States Is At Once Excited And Monotonous

It would seem that nothing can be more adapted to stimulate and to feed curiosity than the
aspect of the United States. Fortunes, opinions, and laws are there in ceaseless variation:
it is as if immutable nature herself were mutable, such are the changes worked upon her by
the hand of man. Yet in the end the sight of this excited community becomes monotonous, and
after having watched the moving pageant for a time the spectator is tired of it. Amongst aristocratic
nations every man is pretty nearly stationary in his own sphere; but men are astonishingly
unlike each other--their passions, their notions, their habits, and their tastes are essentially
different: nothing changey, but everything differs. In democracies, on the contrary, all men
are alike and do things pretty nearly alike. It is true that they are subject to great and
frequent vicissitudes; but as the same events of good or adverse fortune are continually recurring,
the name of the actors only is changed, the piece is always the same. The aspect of American
society is animated, because men and things are always changing; but it is monotonous, because
all these changes are alike.

Men living in democratic ages have many passions, but most of their passions either end in
the love of riches or proceed from it. The cause of this is, not that their souls are narrower,
but that the importance of money is really greater at such times. When all the members of a
community are independent of or indifferent to each other, the co-operation of each of them
can only be obtained by paying for it: this infinitely multiplies the purposes to which wealth
may be applied, and increases its value. When the reverence which belonged to what is old has
vanished, birth, condition, and profession no longer distinguish men, or scarcely distinguish
them at all: hardly anything but money remains to create strongly marked differences between
them, and to raise some of them above the common level. The distinction originating in wealth
is increased by the disappearance and diminution of all other distinctions. Amongst aristocratic
nations money only reaches to a few points on the vast circle of man's desires--in democracies
it seems to lead to all. The love of wealth is therefore to be traced, either as a principal
or an accessory motive, at the bottom of all that the Americans do: this gives to all their
passions a sort of family likeness, and soon renders the survey of them exceedingly wearisome.
This perpetual recurrence of the same passion is monotonous; the peculiar methods by which
this passion seeks its own gratification are no less so.

In an orderly and constituted democracy like the United States, where men cannot enrich themselves
by war, by public office, or by political confiscation, the love of wealth mainly drives them
into business and manufactures. Although these pursuits often bring about great commotions
and disasters, they cannot prosper without strictly regular habits and a long routine of petty
uniform acts. The stronger the passion is, the more regular are these habits, and the more
uniform are these acts. It may be said that it is the vehemence of their desires which makes
the Americans so methodical; it perturbs their minds, but it disciplines their lives.

The remark I here apply to America may indeed be addressed to almost all our contemporaries.
Variety is disappearing from the human race; the same ways of acting, thinking, and feeling
are to be met with all over the world. This is not only because nations work more upon each
other, and are more faithful in their mutual imitation; but as the men of each country relinquish
more and more the peculiar opinions and feelings of a caste, a profession, or a family, they
simultaneously arrive at something nearer to the constitution of man, which is everywhere the
same. Thus they become more alike, even without having imitated each other. Like travellers
scattered about some large wood, which is intersected by paths converging to one point, if
all of them keep, their eyes fixed upon that point and advance towards it, they insensibly
draw nearer together--though they seek not, though they see not, though they know not each
other; and they will be surprised at length to find themselves all collected on the same spot.
All the nations which take, not any particular man, but man himself, as the object of their
researches and their imitations, are tending in the end to a similar state of society, like
these travellers converging to the central plot of the forest.

Chapter XVIII: Of Honor In The United States And In Democratic Communities

It would seem that men employ two very distinct methods in the public estimation *a of the
actions of their fellowmen; at one time they judge them by those simple notions of right and
wrong which are diffused all over the world; at another they refer their decision to a few
very special notions which belong exclusively to some particular age and country. It often
happens that these two rules differ; they sometimes conflict: but they are never either entirely
identified or entirely annulled by one another. Honor, at the periods of its greatest power,
sways the will more than the belief of men; and even whilst they yield without hesitation and
without a murmur to its dictates, they feel notwithstanding, by a dim but mighty instinct,
the existence of a more general, more ancient, and more holy law, which they sometimes disobey
although they cease not to acknowledge it. Some actions have been held to be at the same time
virtuous and dishonorable--a refusal to fight a duel is a case in point.

[Footnote a: The word "honor" is not always used in the same sense either in French or English.
I. It first signifies the dignity, glory, or reverence which a man receives from his kind;
and in this sense a man is said to acquire honor. 2. Honor signifies the aggregate of those
rules by the assistance of which this dignity, glory, or reverence is obtained. Thus we say
that a man has always strictly obeyed the laws of honor; or a man has violated his honor. In
this chapter the word is always used in the latter sense.]

I think these peculiarities may be otherwise explained than by the mere caprices of certain
individuals and nations, as has hitherto been the customary mode of reasoning on the subject.
Mankind is subject to general and lasting wants that have engendered moral laws, to the neglect
of which men have ever and in all places attached the notion of censure and shame: to infringe
them was "to do ill"--"to do well" was to conform to them. Within the bosom of this vast association
of the human race, lesser associations have been formed which are called nations; and amidst
these nations further subdivisions have assumed the names of classes or castes. Each of these
associations forms, as it were, a separate species of the human race; and though it has no
essential difference from the mass of mankind, to a certain extent it stands apart and has
certain wants peculiar to itself. To these special wants must be attributed the modifications
which affect in various degrees and in different countries the mode of considering human actions,
and the estimate which ought to be formed of them. It is the general and permanent interest
of mankind that men should not kill each other: but it may happen to be the peculiar and temporary
interest of a people or a class to justify, or even to honor, homicide.

Honor is simply that peculiar rule, founded upon a peculiar state of society, by the application
of which a people or a class allot praise or blame. Nothing is more unproductive to the mind
than an abstract idea; I therefore hasten to call in the aid of facts and examples to illustrate
my meaning.

I select the most extraordinary kind of honor which was ever known in the world, and that which
we are best acquainted with, viz., aristocratic honor springing out of feudal society. I shall
explain it by means of the principle already laid down, and I shall explain the principle by
means of the illustration. I am not here led to inquire when and how the aristocracy of the
Middle Ages came into existence, why it was so deeply severed from the remainder of the nation,
or what founded and consolidated its power. I take its existence as an established fact, and
I am endeavoring to account for the peculiar view which it took of the greater part of human
actions. The first thing that strikes me is, that in the feudal world actions were not always
praised or blamed with reference to their intrinsic worth, but that they were sometimes appreciated
exclusively with reference to the person who was the actor or the object of them, which is
repugnant to the general conscience of mankind. Thus some of the actions which were indifferent
on the part of a man in humble life, dishonored a noble; others changed their whole character
according as the person aggrieved by them belonged or did not belong to the aristocracy. When
these different notions first arose, the nobility formed a distinct body amidst the people,
which it commanded from the inaccessible heights where it was ensconced. To maintain this peculiar
position, which constituted its strength, it not only required political privileges, but it
required a standard of right and wrong for its own especial use. That some particular virtue
or vice belonged to the nobility rather than to the humble classes--that certain actions were
guiltless when they affected the villain, which were criminal when they touched the noble--these
were often arbitrary matters; but that honor or shame should be attached to a man's actions
according to his condition, was a result of the internal constitution of an aristocratic community.
This has been actually the case in all the countries which have had an aristocracy; as long
as a trace of the principle remains, these peculiarities will still exist; to debauch a woman
of color scarcely injures the reputation of an American--to marry her dishonors him.

In some cases feudal honor enjoined revenge, and stigmatized the forgiveness of insults; in
others it imperiously commanded men to conquer their own passions, and imposed forgetfulness
of self. It did not make humanity or kindness its law, but it extolled generosity; it set more
store on liberality than on benevolence; it allowed men to enrich themselves by gambling or
by war, but not by labor; it preferred great crimes to small earnings; cupidity was less distasteful
to it than avarice; violence it often sanctioned, but cunning and treachery it invariably reprobated
as contemptible. These fantastical notions did not proceed exclusively from the caprices of
those who entertained them. A class which has succeeded in placing itself at the head of and
above all others, and which makes perpetual exertions to maintain this lofty position, must
especially honor those virtues which are conspicuous for their dignity and splendor, and which
may be easily combined with pride and the love of power. Such men would not hesitate to invert
the natural order of the conscience in order to give those virtues precedence before all others.
It may even be conceived that some of the more bold and brilliant vices would readily be set
above the quiet, unpretending virtues. The very existence of such a class in society renders
these things unavoidable.

The nobles of the Middle Ages placed military courage foremost amongst virtues, and in lieu
of many of them. This was again a peculiar opinion which arose necessarily from the peculiarity
of the state of society. Feudal aristocracy existed by war and for war; its power had been
founded by arms, and by arms that power was maintained; it therefore required nothing more
than military courage, and that quality was naturally exalted above all others; whatever denoted
it, even at the expense of reason and humanity, was therefore approved and frequently enjoined
by the manners of the time. Such was the main principle; the caprice of man was only to be
traced in minuter details. That a man should regard a tap on the cheek as an unbearable insult,
and should be obliged to kill in single combat the person who struck him thus lightly, is an
arbitrary rule; but that a noble could not tranquilly receive an insult, and was dishonored
if he allowed himself to take a blow without fighting, were direct consequences of the fundamental
principles and the wants of military aristocracy.

Thus it was true to a certain extent to assert that the laws of honor were capricious; but
these caprices of honor were always confined within certain necessary limits. The peculiar
rule, which was called honor by our forefathers, is so far from being an arbitrary law in my
eyes, that I would readily engage to ascribe its most incoherent and fantastical injunctions
to a small number of fixed and invariable wants inherent in feudal society.

If I were to trace the notion of feudal honor into the domain of politics, I should not find
it more difficult to explain its dictates. The state of society and the political institutions
of the Middle Ages were such, that the supreme power of the nation never governed the community
directly. That power did not exist in the eyes of the people: every man looked up to a certain
individual whom he was bound to obey; by that intermediate personage he was connected with
all the others. Thus in feudal society the whole system of the commonwealth rested upon the
sentiment of fidelity to the person of the lord: to destroy that sentiment was to open the
sluices of anarchy. Fidelity to a political superior was, moreover, a sentiment of which all
the members of the aristocracy had constant opportunities of estimating the importance; for
every one of them was a vassal as well as a lord, and had to command as well as to obey. To
remain faithful to the lord, to sacrifice one's self for him if called upon, to share his good
or evil fortunes, to stand by him in his undertakings whatever they might be--such were the
first injunctions of feudal honor in relation to the political institutions of those times.
The treachery of a vassal was branded with extraordinary severity by public opinion, and a
name of peculiar infamy was invented for the offence which was called "felony."

On the contrary, few traces are to be found in the Middle Ages of the passion which constituted
the life of the nations of antiquity--I mean patriotism; the word itself is not of very ancient
date in the language. *b Feudal institutions concealed the country at large from men's sight,
and rendered the love of it less necessary. The nation was forgotten in the passions which
attached men to persons. Hence it was no part of the strict law of feudal honor to remain faithful
to one's country. Not indeed that the love of their country did not exist in the hearts of
our forefathers; but it constituted a dim and feeble instinct, which has grown more clear and
strong in proportion as aristocratic classes have been abolished, and the supreme power of
the nation centralized. This may be clearly seen from the contrary judgments which European
nations have passed upon the various events of their histories, according to the generations
by which such judgments have been formed. The circumstance which most dishonored the Constable
de Bourbon in the eyes of his contemporaries was that he bore arms against his king: that which
most dishonors him in our eyes, is that he made war against his country; we brand him as deeply
as our forefathers did, but for different reasons.

[Footnote b: Even the word "patrie" was not used by the French writers until the sixteenth
century.]

I have chosen the honor of feudal times by way of illustration of my meaning, because its characteristics
are more distinctly marked and more familiar to us than those of any other period; but I might
have taken an example elsewhere, and I should have reached the same conclusion by a different
road. Although we are less perfectly acquainted with the Romans than with our own ancestors,
yet we know that certain peculiar notions of glory and disgrace obtained amongst them, which
were not solely derived from the general principles of right and wrong. Many human actions
were judged differently, according as they affected a Roman citizen or a stranger, a freeman
or a slave; certain vices were blazoned abroad, certain virtues were extolled above all others.
"In that age," says Plutarch in the life of Coriolanus, "martial prowess was more honored and
prized in Rome than all the other virtues, insomuch that it was called virtus, the name of
virtue itself, by applying the name of the kind to this particular species; so that virtue
in Latin was as much as to say valor." Can anyone fail to recognize the peculiar want of that
singular community which was formed for the conquest of the world?

Any nation would furnish us with similar grounds of observation; for, as I have already remarked,
whenever men collect together as a distinct community, the notion of honor instantly grows
up amongst them; that is to say, a system of opinions peculiar to themselves as to what is
blamable or commendable; and these peculiar rules always originate in the special habits and
special interests of the community. This is applicable to a certain extent to democratic communities
as well as to others, as we shall now proceed to prove by the example of the Americans. *c
Some loose notions of the old aristocratic honor of Europe are still to be found scattered
amongst the opinions of the Americans; but these traditional opinions are few in number, they
have but little root in the country, and but little power. They are like a religion which has
still some temples left standing, though men have ceased to believe in it. But amidst these
half-obliterated notions of exotic honor, some new opinions have sprung up, which constitute
what may be termed in our days American honor. I have shown how the Americans are constantly
driven to engage in commerce and industry. Their origin, their social condition, their political
institutions, and even the spot they inhabit, urge them irresistibly in this direction. Their
present condition is then that of an almost exclusively manufacturing and commercial association,
placed in the midst of a new and boundless country, which their principal object is to explore
for purposes of profit. This is the characteristic which most peculiarly distinguishes the
American people from all others at the present time. All those quiet virtues which tend to
give a regular movement to the community, and to encourage business, will therefore be held
in peculiar honor by that people, and to neglect those virtues will be to incur public contempt.
All the more turbulent virtues, which often dazzle, but more frequently disturb society, will
on the contrary occupy a subordinate rank in the estimation of this same people: they may be
neglected without forfeiting the esteem of the community--to acquire them would perhaps be
to run a risk of losing it.

[Footnote c: I speak here of the Americans inhabiting those States where slavery does not exist;
they alone can be said to present a complete picture of democratic society.]

The Americans make a no less arbitrary classification of men's vices. There are certain propensities
which appear censurable to the general reason and the universal conscience of mankind, but
which happen to agree with the peculiar and temporary wants of the American community: these
propensities are lightly reproved, sometimes even encouraged; for instance, the love of wealth
and the secondary propensities connected with it may be more particularly cited. To clear,
to till, and to transform the vast uninhabited continent which is his domain, the American
requires the daily support of an energetic passion; that passion can only be the love of wealth;
the passion for wealth is therefore not reprobated in America, and provided it does not go
beyond the bounds assigned to it for public security, it is held in honor. The American lauds
as a noble and praiseworthy ambition what our own forefathers in the Middle Ages stigmatized
as servile cupidity, just as he treats as a blind and barbarous frenzy that ardor of conquest
and martial temper which bore them to battle. In the United States fortunes are lost and regained
without difficulty; the country is boundless, and its resources inexhaustible. The people have
all the wants and cravings of a growing creature; and whatever be their efforts, they are always
surrounded by more than they can appropriate. It is not the ruin of a few individuals which
may be soon repaired, but the inactivity and sloth of the community at large which would be
fatal to such a people. Boldness of enterprise is the foremost cause of its rapid progress,
its strength, and its greatness. Commercial business is there like a vast lottery, by which
a small number of men continually lose, but the State is always a gainer; such a people ought
therefore to encourage and do honor to boldness in commercial speculations. But any bold speculation
risks the fortune of the speculator and of all those who put their trust in him. The Americans,
who make a virtue of commercial temerity, have no right in any case to brand with disgrace
those who practise it. Hence arises the strange indulgence which is shown to bankrupts in the
United States; their honor does not suffer by such an accident. In this respect the Americans
differ, not only from the nations of Europe, but from all the commercial nations of our time,
and accordingly they resemble none of them in their position or their wants.

In America all those vices which tend to impair the purity of morals, and to destroy the conjugal
tie, are treated with a degree of severity which is unknown in the rest of the world. At first
sight this seems strangely at variance with the tolerance shown there on other subjects, and
one is surprised to meet with a morality so relaxed and so austere amongst the selfsame people.
But these things are less incoherent than they seem to be. Public opinion in the United States
very gently represses that love of wealth which promotes the commercial greatness and the prosperity
of the nation, and it especially condemns that laxity of morals which diverts the human mind
from the pursuit of well-being, and disturbs the internal order of domestic life which is so
necessary to success in business. To earn the esteem of their countrymen, the Americans are
therefore constrained to adapt themselves to orderly habits--and it may be said in this sense
that they make it a matter of honor to live chastely.

On one point American honor accords with the notions of honor acknowledged in Europe; it places
courage as the highest virtue, and treats it as the greatest of the moral necessities of man;
but the notion of courage itself assumes a different aspect. In the United States martial valor
is but little prized; the courage which is best known and most esteemed is that which emboldens
men to brave the dangers of the ocean, in order to arrive earlier in port--to support the privations
of the wilderness without complaint, and solitude more cruel than privations--the courage which
renders them almost insensible to the loss of a fortune laboriously acquired, and instantly
prompts to fresh exertions to make another. Courage of this kind is peculiarly necessary to
the maintenance and prosperity of the American communities, and it is held by them in peculiar
honor and estimation; to betray a want of it is to incur certain disgrace.

I have yet another characteristic point which may serve to place the idea of this chapter in
stronger relief. In a democratic society like that of the United States, where fortunes are
scanty and insecure, everybody works, and work opens a way to everything: this has changed
the point of honor quite round, and has turned it against idleness. I have sometimes met in
America with young men of wealth, personally disinclined to all laborious exertion, but who
had been compelled to embrace a profession. Their disposition and their fortune allowed them
to remain without employment; public opinion forbade it, too imperiously to be disobeyed. In
the European countries, on the contrary, where aristocracy is still struggling with the flood
which overwhelms it, I have often seen men, constantly spurred on by their wants and desires,
remain in idleness, in order not to lose the esteem of their equals; and I have known them
submit to ennui and privations rather than to work. No one can fail to perceive that these
opposite obligations are two different rules of conduct, both nevertheless originating in the
notion of honor.

What our forefathers designated as honor absolutely was in reality only one of its forms; they
gave a generic name to what was only a species. Honor therefore is to be found in democratic
as well as in aristocratic ages, but it will not be difficult to show that it assumes a different
aspect in the former. Not only are its injunctions different, but we shall shortly see that
they are less numerous, less precise, and that its dictates are less rigorously obeyed. The
position of a caste is always much more peculiar than that of a people. Nothing is so much
out of the way of the world as a small community invariably composed of the same families (as
was for instance the aristocracy of the Middle Ages), whose object is to concentrate and to
retain, exclusively and hereditarily, education, wealth, and power amongst its own members.
But the more out of the way the position of a community happens to be, the more numerous are
its special wants, and the more extensive are its notions of honor corresponding to those wants.
The rules of honor will therefore always be less numerous amongst a people not divided into
castes than amongst any other. If ever any nations are constituted in which it may even be
difficult to find any peculiar classes of society, the notion of honor will be confined to
a small number of precepts, which will be more and more in accordance with the moral laws adopted
by the mass of mankind. Thus the laws of honor will be less peculiar and less multifarious
amongst a democratic people than in an aristocracy. They will also be more obscure; and this
is a necessary consequence of what goes before; for as the distinguishing marks of honor are
less numerous and less peculiar, it must often be difficult to distinguish them. To this, other
reasons may be added. Amongst the aristocratic nations of the Middle Ages, generation succeeded
generation in vain; each family was like a never-dying, ever-stationary man, and the state
of opinions was hardly more changeable than that of conditions. Everyone then had always the
same objects before his eyes, which he contemplated from the same point; his eyes gradually
detected the smallest details, and his discernment could not fail to become in the end clear
and accurate. Thus not only had the men of feudal times very extraordinary opinions in matters
of honor, but each of those opinions was present to their minds under a clear and precise form.

This can never be the case in America, where all men are in constant motion; and where society,
transformed daily by its own operations, changes its opinions together with its wants. In such
a country men have glimpses of the rules of honor, but they have seldom time to fix attention
upon them.

But even if society were motionless, it would still be difficult to determine the meaning which
ought to be attached to the word "honor." In the Middle Ages, as each class had its own honor,
the same opinion was never received at the same time by a large number of men; and this rendered
it possible to give it a determined and accurate form, which was the more easy, as all those
by whom it was received, having a perfectly identical and most peculiar position, were naturally
disposed to agree upon the points of a law which was made for themselves alone. Thus the code
of honor became a complete and detailed system, in which everything was anticipated and provided
for beforehand, and a fixed and always palpable standard was applied to human actions. Amongst
a democratic nation, like the Americans, in which ranks are identified, and the whole of society
forms one single mass, composed of elements which are all analogous though not entirely similar,
it is impossible ever to agree beforehand on what shall or shall not be allowed by the laws
of honor. Amongst that people, indeed, some national wants do exist which give rise to opinions
common to the whole nation on points of honor; but these opinions never occur at the same time,
in the same manner, or with the same intensity to the minds of the whole community; the law
of honor exists, but it has no organs to promulgate it.

The confusion is far greater still in a democratic country like France, where the different
classes of which the former fabric of society was composed, being brought together but not
yet mingled, import day by day into each other's circles various and sometimes conflicting
notions of honor--where every man, at his own will and pleasure, forsakes one portion of his
forefathers' creed, and retains another; so that, amidst so many arbitrary measures, no common
rule can ever be established, and it is almost impossible to predict which actions will be
held in honor and which will be thought disgraceful. Such times are wretched, but they are
of short duration.

As honor, amongst democratic nations, is imperfectly defined, its influence is of course less
powerful; for it is difficult to apply with certainty and firmness a law which is not distinctly
known. Public opinion, the natural and supreme interpreter of the laws of honor, not clearly
discerning to which side censure or approval ought to lean, can only pronounce a hesitating
judgment. Sometimes the opinion of the public may contradict itself; more frequently it does
not act, and lets things pass.

The weakness of the sense of honor in democracies also arises from several other causes. In
aristocratic countries, the same notions of honor are always entertained by only a few persons,
always limited in number, often separated from the rest of their fellow-citizens. Honor is
easily mingled and identified in their minds with the idea of all that distinguishes their
own position; it appears to them as the chief characteristic of their own rank; they apply
its different rules with all the warmth of personal interest, and they feel (if I may use the
expression) a passion for complying with its dictates. This truth is extremely obvious in the
old black-letter lawbooks on the subject of "trial by battel." The nobles, in their disputes,
were bound to use the lance and sword; whereas the villains used only sticks amongst themselves,
"inasmuch as," to use the words of the old books, "villains have no honor." This did not mean,
as it may be imagined at the present day, that these people were contemptible; but simply that
their actions were not to be judged by the same rules which were applied to the actions of
the aristocracy.

It is surprising, at first sight, that when the sense of honor is most predominant, its injunctions
are usually most strange; so that the further it is removed from common reason the better it
is obeyed; whence it has sometimes been inferred that the laws of honor were strengthened by
their own extravagance. The two things indeed originate from the same source, but the one is
not derived from the other. Honor becomes fantastical in proportion to the peculiarity of the
wants which it denotes, and the paucity of the men by whom those wants are felt; and it is
because it denotes wants of this kind that its influence is great. Thus the notion of honor
is not the stronger for being fantastical, but it is fantastical and strong from the selfsame
cause.

Further, amongst aristocratic nations each rank is different, but all ranks are fixed; every
man occupies a place in his own sphere which he cannot relinquish, and he lives there amidst
other men who are bound by the same ties. Amongst these nations no man can either hope or fear
to escape being seen; no man is placed so low but that he has a stage of his own, and none
can avoid censure or applause by his obscurity. In democratic States on the contrary, where
all the members of the community are mingled in the same crowd and in constant agitation, public
opinion has no hold on men; they disappear at every instant, and elude its power. Consequently
the dictates of honor will be there less imperious and less stringent; for honor acts solely
for the public eye--differing in this respect from mere virtue, which lives upon itself contented
with its own approval.

If the reader has distinctly apprehended all that goes before, he will understand that there
is a close and necessary relation between the inequality of social conditions and what has
here been styled honor--a relation which, if I am not mistaken, had not before been clearly
pointed out. I shall therefore make one more attempt to illustrate it satisfactorily. Suppose
a nation stands apart from the rest of mankind: independently of certain general wants inherent
in the human race, it will also have wants and interests peculiar to itself: certain opinions
of censure or approbation forthwith arise in the community, which are peculiar to itself, and
which are styled honor by the members of that community. Now suppose that in this same nation
a caste arises, which, in its turn, stands apart from all the other classes, and contracts
certain peculiar wants, which give rise in their turn to special opinions. The honor of this
caste, composed of a medley of the peculiar notions of the nation, and the still more peculiar
notions of the caste, will be as remote as it is possible to conceive from the simple and general
opinions of men.

Having reached this extreme point of the argument, I now return. When ranks are commingled
and privileges abolished, the men of whom a nation is composed being once more equal and alike,
their interests and wants become identical, and all the peculiar notions which each caste styled
honor successively disappear: the notion of honor no longer proceeds from any other source
than the wants peculiar to the nation at large, and it denotes the individual character of
that nation to the world. Lastly, if it be allowable to suppose that all the races of mankind
should be commingled, and that all the peoples of earth should ultimately come to have the
same interests, the same wants, undistinguished from each other by any characteristic peculiarities,
no conventional value whatever would then be attached to men's actions; they would all be regarded
by all in the same light; the general necessities of mankind, revealed by conscience to every
man, would become the common standard. The simple and general notions of right and wrong only
would then be recognized in the world, to which, by a natural and necessary tie, the idea of
censure or approbation would be attached. Thus, to comprise all my meaning in a single proposition,
the dissimilarities and inequalities of men gave rise to the notion of honor; that notion is
weakened in proportion as these differences are obliterated, and with them it would disappear.

Chapter XIX: Why So Many Ambitious Men And So Little Lofty Ambition Are To Be Found In The
United States

The first thing which strikes a traveller in the United States is the innumerable multitude
of those who seek to throw off their original condition; and the second is the rarity of lofty
ambition to be observed in the midst of the universally ambitious stir of society. No Americans
are devoid of a yearning desire to rise; but hardly any appear to entertain hopes of great
magnitude, or to drive at very lofty aims. All are constantly seeking to acquire property,
power, and reputation--few contemplate these things upon a great scale; and this is the more
surprising, as nothing is to be discerned in the manners or laws of America to limit desire,
or to prevent it from spreading its impulses in every direction. It seems difficult to attribute
this singular state of things to the equality of social conditions; for at the instant when
that same equality was established in France, the flight of ambition became unbounded. Nevertheless,
I think that the principal cause which may be assigned to this fact is to be found in the social
condition and democratic manners of the Americans.

All revolutions enlarge the ambition of men: this proposition is more peculiarly true of those
revolutions which overthrow an aristocracy. When the former barriers which kept back the multitude
from fame and power are suddenly thrown down, a violent and universal rise takes place towards
that eminence so long coveted and at length to be enjoyed. In this first burst of triumph nothing
seems impossible to anyone: not only are desires boundless, but the power of satisfying them
seems almost boundless, too. Amidst the general and sudden renewal of laws and customs, in
this vast confusion of all men and all ordinances, the various members of the community rise
and sink again with excessive rapidity; and power passes so quickly from hand to hand that
none need despair of catching it in turn. It must be recollected, moreover, that the people
who destroy an aristocracy have lived under its laws; they have witnessed its splendor, and
they have unconsciously imbibed the feelings and notions which it entertained. Thus at the
moment when an aristocracy is dissolved, its spirit still pervades the mass of the community,
and its tendencies are retained long after it has been defeated. Ambition is therefore always
extremely great as long as a democratic revolution lasts, and it will remain so for some time
after the revolution is consummated. The reminiscence of the extraordinary events which men
have witnessed is not obliterated from their memory in a day. The passions which a revolution
has roused do not disappear at its close. A sense of instability remains in the midst of re-established
order: a notion of easy success survives the strange vicissitudes which gave it birth; desires
still remain extremely enlarged, when the means of satisfying them are diminished day by day.
The taste for large fortunes subsists, though large fortunes are rare: and on every side we
trace the ravages of inordinate and hapless ambition kindled in hearts which they consume in
secret and in vain.

At length, however, the last vestiges of the struggle are effaced; the remains of aristocracy
completely disappear; the great events by which its fall was attended are forgotten; peace
succeeds to war, and the sway of order is restored in the new realm; desires are again adapted
to the means by which they may be fulfilled; the wants, the opinions, and the feelings of men
cohere once more; the level of the community is permanently determined, and democratic society
established. A democratic nation, arrived at this permanent and regular state of things, will
present a very different spectacle from that which we have just described; and we may readily
conclude that, if ambition becomes great whilst the conditions of society are growing equal,
it loses that quality when they have grown so. As wealth is subdivided and knowledge diffused,
no one is entirely destitute of education or of property; the privileges and disqualifications
of caste being abolished, and men having shattered the bonds which held them fixed, the notion
of advancement suggests itself to every mind, the desire to rise swells in every heart, and
all men want to mount above their station: ambition is the universal feeling.

But if the equality of conditions gives some resources to all the members of the community,
it also prevents any of them from having resources of great extent, which necessarily circumscribes
their desires within somewhat narrow limits. Thus amongst democratic nations ambition is ardent
and continual, but its aim is not habitually lofty; and life is generally spent in eagerly
coveting small objects which are within reach. What chiefly diverts the men of democracies
from lofty ambition is not the scantiness of their fortunes, but the vehemence of the exertions
they daily make to improve them. They strain their faculties to the utmost to achieve paltry
results, and this cannot fail speedily to limit their discernment and to circumscribe their
powers. They might be much poorer and still be greater. The small number of opulent citizens
who are to be found amidst a democracy do not constitute an exception to this rule. A man who
raises himself by degrees to wealth and power, contracts, in the course of this protracted
labor, habits of prudence and restraint which he cannot afterwards shake off. A man cannot
enlarge his mind as he would his house. The same observation is applicable to the sons of such
a man; they are born, it is true, in a lofty position, but their parents were humble; they
have grown up amidst feelings and notions which they cannot afterwards easily get rid of; and
it may be presumed that they will inherit the propensities of their father as well as his wealth.
It may happen, on the contrary, that the poorest scion of a powerful aristocracy may display
vast ambition, because the traditional opinions of his race and the general spirit of his order
still buoy him up for some time above his fortune. Another thing which prevents the men of
democratic periods from easily indulging in the pursuit of lofty objects, is the lapse of time
which they foresee must take place before they can be ready to approach them. "It is a great
advantage," says Pascal, "to be a man of quality, since it brings one man as forward at eighteen
or twenty as another man would be at fifty, which is a clear gain of thirty years." Those thirty
years are commonly wanting to the ambitious characters of democracies. The principle of equality,
which allows every man to arrive at everything, prevents all men from rapid advancement.

In a democratic society, as well as elsewhere, there are only a certain number of great fortunes
to be made; and as the paths which lead to them are indiscriminately open to all, the progress
of all must necessarily be slackened. As the candidates appear to be nearly alike, and as it
is difficult to make a selection without infringing the principle of equality, which is the
supreme law of democratic societies, the first idea which suggests itself is to make them all
advance at the same rate and submit to the same probation. Thus in proportion as men become
more alike, and the principle of equality is more peaceably and deeply infused into the institutions
and manners of the country, the rules of advancement become more inflexible, advancement itself
slower, the difficulty of arriving quickly at a certain height far greater. From hatred of
privilege and from the embarrassment of choosing, all men are at last constrained, whatever
may be their standard, to pass the same ordeal; all are indiscriminately subjected to a multitude
of petty preliminary exercises, in which their youth is wasted and their imagination quenched,
so that they despair of ever fully attaining what is held out to them; and when at length they
are in a condition to perform any extraordinary acts, the taste for such things has forsaken them.

In China, where the equality of conditions is exceedingly great and very ancient, no man passes
from one public office to another without undergoing a probationary trial. This probation occurs
afresh at every stage of his career; and the notion is now so rooted in the manners of the
people that I remember to have read a Chinese novel, in which the hero, after numberless crosses,
succeeds at length in touching the heart of his mistress by taking honors. A lofty ambition
breathes with difficulty in such an atmosphere.

The remark I apply to politics extends to everything; equality everywhere produces the same
effects; where the laws of a country do not regulate and retard the advancement of men by positive
enactment, competition attains the same end. In a well-established democratic community great
and rapid elevation is therefore rare; it forms an exception to the common rule; and it is
the singularity of such occurrences that makes men forget how rarely they happen. Men living
in democracies ultimately discover these things; they find out at last that the laws of their
country open a boundless field of action before them, but that no one can hope to hasten across
it. Between them and the final object of their desires, they perceive a multitude of small
intermediate impediments, which must be slowly surmounted: this prospect wearies and discourages
their ambition at once. They therefore give up hopes so doubtful and remote, to search nearer
to themselves for less lofty and more easy enjoyments. Their horizon is not bounded by the
laws but narrowed by themselves.

I have remarked that lofty ambitions are more rare in the ages of democracy than in times of
aristocracy: I may add that when, in spite of these natural obstacles, they do spring into
existence, their character is different. In aristocracies the career of ambition is often wide,
but its boundaries are determined. In democracies ambition commonly ranges in a narrower field,
but if once it gets beyond that, hardly any limits can be assigned to it. As men are individually
weak--as they live asunder, and in constant motion--as precedents are of little authority and
laws but of short duration, resistance to novelty is languid, and the fabric of society never
appears perfectly erect or firmly consolidated. So that, when once an ambitious man has the
power in his grasp, there is nothing he may noted are; and when it is gone from him, he meditates
the overthrow of the State to regain it. This gives to great political ambition a character
of revolutionary violence, which it seldom exhibits to an equal degree in aristocratic communities.
The common aspect of democratic nations will present a great number of small and very rational
objects of ambition, from amongst which a few ill-controlled desires of a larger growth will
at intervals break out: but no such a thing as ambition conceived and contrived on a vast scale
is to be met with there.

I have shown elsewhere by what secret influence the principle of equality makes the passion
for physical gratifications and the exclusive love of the present predominate in the human
heart: these different propensities mingle with the sentiment of ambition, and tinge it, as
it were, with their hues. I believe that ambitious men in democracies are less engrossed than
any others with the interests and the judgment of posterity; the present moment alone engages
and absorbs them. They are more apt to complete a number of undertakings with rapidity than
to raise lasting monuments of their achievements; and they care much more for success than
for fame. What they most ask of men is obedience--what they most covet is empire. Their manners
have in almost all cases remained below the height of their station; the consequence is that
they frequently carry very low tastes into their extraordinary fortunes, and that they seem
to have acquired the supreme power only to minister to their coarse or paltry pleasures.

I think that in our time it is very necessary to cleanse, to regulate, and to adapt the feeling
of ambition, but that it would be extremely dangerous to seek to impoverish and to repress
it over-much. We should attempt to lay down certain extreme limits, which it should never be
allowed to outstep; but its range within those established limits should not be too much checked.
I confess that I apprehend much less for democratic society from the boldness than from the
mediocrity of desires. What appears to me most to be dreaded is that, in the midst of the small
incessant occupations of private life, ambition should lose its vigor and its greatness--that
the passions of man should abate, but at the same time be lowered, so that the march of society
should every day become more tranquil and less aspiring. I think then that the leaders of modern
society would be wrong to seek to lull the community by a state of too uniform and too peaceful
happiness; and that it is well to expose it from time to time to matters of difficulty and
danger, in order to raise ambition and to give it a field of action. Moralists are constantly
complaining that the ruling vice of the present time is pride. This is true in one sense, for
indeed no one thinks that he is not better than his neighbor, or consents to obey his superior:
but it is extremely false in another; for the same man who cannot endure subordination or equality,
has so contemptible an opinion of himself that he thinks he is only born to indulge in vulgar
pleasures. He willingly takes up with low desires, without daring to embark in lofty enterprises,
of which he scarcely dreams. Thus, far from thinking that humility ought to be preached to
our contemporaries, I would have endeavors made to give them a more enlarged idea of themselves
and of their kind. Humility is unwholesome to them; what they most want is, in my opinion,
pride. I would willingly exchange several of our small virtues for this one vice.

Chapter XX: The Trade Of Place-Hunting In Certain Democratic Countries

In the United States as soon as a man has acquired some education and pecuniary resources,
he either endeavors to get rich by commerce or industry, or he buys land in the bush and turns
pioneer. All that he asks of the State is not to be disturbed in his toil, and to be secure
of his earnings. Amongst the greater part of European nations, when a man begins to feel his
strength and to extend his desires, the first thing that occurs to him is to get some public
employment. These opposite effects, originating in the same cause, deserve our passing notice.

When public employments are few in number, ill-paid and precarious, whilst the different lines
of business are numerous and lucrative, it is to business, and not to official duties, that
the new and eager desires engendered by the principle of equality turn from every side. But
if, whilst the ranks of society are becoming more equal, the education of the people remains
incomplete, or their spirit the reverse of bold--if commerce and industry, checked in their
growth, afford only slow and arduous means of making a fortune--the various members of the
community, despairing of ameliorating their own condition, rush to the head of the State and
demand its assistance. To relieve their own necessities at the cost of the public treasury,
appears to them to be the easiest and most open, if not the only, way they have to rise above
a condition which no longer contents them; place-hunting becomes the most generally followed
of all trades. This must especially be the case, in those great centralized monarchies in which
the number of paid offices is immense, and the tenure of them tolerably secure, so that no
one despairs of obtaining a place, and of enjoying it as undisturbedly as a hereditary fortune.

I shall not remark that the universal and inordinate desire for place is a great social evil;
that it destroys the spirit of independence in the citizen, and diffuses a venal and servile
humor throughout the frame of society; that it stifles the manlier virtues: nor shall I be
at the pains to demonstrate that this kind of traffic only creates an unproductive activity,
which agitates the country without adding to its resources: all these things are obvious. But
I would observe, that a government which encourages this tendency risks its own tranquillity,
and places its very existence in great jeopardy. I am aware that at a time like our own, when
the love and respect which formerly clung to authority are seen gradually to decline, it may
appear necessary to those in power to lay a closer hold on every man by his own interest, and
it may seem convenient to use his own passions to keep him in order and in silence; but this
cannot be so long, and what may appear to be a source of strength for a certain time will assuredly
become in the end a great cause of embarrassment and weakness.

Amongst democratic nations, as well as elsewhere, the number of official appointments has in
the end some limits; but amongst those nations, the number of aspirants is unlimited; it perpetually
increases, with a gradual and irresistible rise in proportion as social conditions become more
equal, and is only checked by the limits of the population. Thus, when public employments afford
the only outlet for ambition, the government necessarily meets with a permanent opposition
at last; for it is tasked to satisfy with limited means unlimited desires. It is very certain
that of all people in the world the most difficult to restrain and to manage are a people of
solicitants. Whatever endeavors are made by rulers, such a people can never be contented; and
it is always to be apprehended that they will ultimately overturn the constitution of the country,
and change the aspect of the State, for the sole purpose of making a clearance of places. The
sovereigns of the present age, who strive to fix upon themselves alone all those novel desires
which are aroused by equality, and to satisfy them, will repent in the end, if I am not mistaken,
that they ever embarked in this policy: they will one day discover that they have hazarded
their own power, by making it so necessary; and that the more safe and honest course would
have been to teach their subjects the art of providing for themselves. *a

[Footnote a: As a matter of fact, more recent experience has shown that place-hunting is quite
as intense in the United States as in any country in Europe. It is regarded by the Americans
themselves as one of the great evils of their social condition, and it powerfully affects their
political institutions. But the American who seeks a place seeks not so much a means of subsistence
as the distinction which office and public employment confer. In the absence of any true aristocracy,
the public service creates a spurious one, which is as much an object of ambition as the distinctions
of rank in aristocratic countries.--Translator's Note.]

Chapter XXI: Why Great Revolutions Will Become More Rare

A people which has existed for centuries under a system of castes and classes can only arrive
at a democratic state of society by passing through a long series of more or less critical
transformations, accomplished by violent efforts, and after numerous vicissitudes; in the course
of which, property, opinions, and power are rapidly transferred from one hand to another. Even
after this great revolution is consummated, the revolutionary habits engendered by it may long
be traced, and it will be followed by deep commotion. As all this takes place at the very time
at which social conditions are becoming more equal, it is inferred that some concealed relation
and secret tie exist between the principle of equality itself and revolution, insomuch that
the one cannot exist without giving rise to the other.

On this point reasoning may seem to lead to the same result as experience. Amongst a people
whose ranks are nearly equal, no ostensible bond connects men together, or keeps them settled
in their station. None of them have either a permanent right or power to command--none are
forced by their condition to obey; but every man, finding himself possessed of some education
and some resources, may choose his won path and proceed apart from all his fellow-men. The
same causes which make the members of the community independent of each other, continually
impel them to new and restless desires, and constantly spur them onwards. It therefore seems
natural that, in a democratic community, men, things, and opinions should be forever changing
their form and place, and that democratic ages should be times of rapid and incessant transformation.

But is this really the case? does the equality of social conditions habitually and permanently
lead men to revolution? does that state of society contain some perturbing principle which
prevents the community from ever subsiding into calm, and disposes the citizens to alter incessantly
their laws, their principles, and their manners? I do not believe it; and as the subject is
important, I beg for the reader's close attention. Almost all the revolutions which have changed
the aspect of nations have been made to consolidate or to destroy social inequality. Remove
the secondary causes which have produced the great convulsions of the world, and you will almost
always find the principle of inequality at the bottom. Either the poor have attempted to plunder
the rich, or the rich to enslave the poor. If then a state of society can ever be founded in
which every man shall have something to keep, and little to take from others, much will have
been done for the peace of the world. I am aware that amongst a great democratic people there
will always be some members of the community in great poverty, and others in great opulence;
but the poor, instead of forming the immense majority of the nation, as is always the case
in aristocratic communities, are comparatively few in number, and the laws do not bind them
together by the ties of irremediable and hereditary penury. The wealthy, on their side, are
scarce and powerless; they have no privileges which attract public observation; even their
wealth, as it is no longer incorporated and bound up with the soil, is impalpable, and as it
were invisible. As there is no longer a race of poor men, so there is no longer a race of rich
men; the latter spring up daily from the multitude, and relapse into it again. Hence they do
not form a distinct class, which may be easily marked out and plundered; and, moreover, as
they are connected with the mass of their fellow-citizens by a thousand secret ties, the people
cannot assail them without inflicting an injury upon itself. Between these two extremes of
democratic communities stand an innumerable multitude of men almost alike, who, without being
exactly either rich or poor, are possessed of sufficient property to desire the maintenance
of order, yet not enough to excite envy. Such men are the natural enemies of violent commotions:
their stillness keeps all beneath them and above them still, and secures the balance of the
fabric of society. Not indeed that even these men are contented with what they have gotten,
or that they feel a natural abhorrence for a revolution in which they might share the spoil
without sharing the calamity; on the contrary, they desire, with unexampled ardor, to get rich,
but the difficulty is to know from whom riches can be taken. The same state of society which
constantly prompts desires, restrains these desires within necessary limits: it gives men more
liberty of changing and less interest in change.

Not only are the men of democracies not naturally desirous of revolutions, but they are afraid
of them. All revolutions more or less threaten the tenure of property: but most of those who
live in democratic countries are possessed of property--not only are they possessed of property,
but they live in the condition of men who set the greatest store upon their property. If we
attentively consider each of the classes of which society is composed, it is easy to see that
the passions engendered by property are keenest and most tenacious amongst the middle classes.
The poor often care but little for what they possess, because they suffer much more from the
want of what they have not, than they enjoy the little they have. The rich have many other
passions besides that of riches to satisfy; and, besides, the long and arduous enjoyment of
a great fortune sometimes makes them in the end insensible to its charms. But the men who have
a competency, alike removed from opulence and from penury, attach an enormous value to their
possessions. As they are still almost within the reach of poverty, they see its privations
near at hand, and dread them; between poverty and themselves there is nothing but a scanty
fortune, upon which they immediately fix their apprehensions and their hopes. Every day increases
the interest they take in it, by the constant cares which it occasions; and they are the more
attached to it by their continual exertions to increase the amount. The notion of surrendering
the smallest part of it is insupportable to them, and they consider its total loss as the worst
of misfortunes. Now these eager and apprehensive men of small property constitute the class
which is constantly increased by the equality of conditions. Hence, in democratic communities,
the majority of the people do not clearly see what they have to gain by a revolution, but they
continually and in a thousand ways feel that they might lose by one.

I have shown in another part of this work that the equality of conditions naturally urges men
to embark in commercial and industrial pursuits, and that it tends to increase and to distribute
real property: I have also pointed out the means by which it inspires every man with an eager
and constant desire to increase his welfare. Nothing is more opposed to revolutionary passions
than these things. It may happen that the final result of a revolution is favorable to commerce
and manufactures; but its first consequence will almost always be the ruin of manufactures
and mercantile men, because it must always change at once the general principles of consumption,
and temporarily upset the existing proportion between supply and demand. I know of nothing
more opposite to revolutionary manners than commercial manners. Commerce is naturally adverse
to all the violent passions; it loves to temporize, takes delight in compromise, and studiously
avoids irritation. It is patient, insinuating, flexible, and never has recourse to extreme
measures until obliged by the most absolute necessity. Commerce renders men independent of
each other, gives them a lofty notion of their personal importance, leads them to seek to conduct
their own affairs, and teaches how to conduct them well; it therefore prepares men for freedom,
but preserves them from revolutions. In a revolution the owners of personal property have more
to fear than all others; for on the one hand their property is often easy to seize, and on
the other it may totally disappear at any moment--a subject of alarm to which the owners of
real property are less exposed, since, although they may lose the income of their estates,
they may hope to preserve the land itself through the greatest vicissitudes. Hence the former
are much more alarmed at the symptoms of revolutionary commotion than the latter. Thus nations
are less disposed to make revolutions in proportion as personal property is augmented and distributed
amongst them, and as the number of those possessing it increases. Moreover, whatever profession
men may embrace, and whatever species of property they may possess, one characteristic is common
to them all. No one is fully contented with his present fortune--all are perpetually striving
in a thousand ways to improve it. Consider any one of them at any period of his life, and he
will be found engaged with some new project for the purpose of increasing what he has; talk
not to him of the interests and the rights of mankind: this small domestic concern absorbs
for the time all his thoughts, and inclines him to defer political excitement to some other
season. This not only prevents men from making revolutions, but deters men from desiring them.
Violent political passions have but little hold on those who have devoted all their faculties
to the pursuit of their well-being. The ardor which they display in small matters calms their
zeal for momentous undertakings.

From time to time indeed, enterprising and ambitious men will arise in democratic communities,
whose unbounded aspirations cannot be contented by following the beaten track. Such men like
revolutions and hail their approach; but they have great difficulty in bringing them about,
unless unwonted events come to their assistance. No man can struggle with advantage against
the spirit of his age and country; and, however powerful he may be supposed to be, he will
find it difficult to make his contemporaries share in feelings and opinions which are repugnant
to t all their feelings and desires.

It is a mistake to believe that, when once the equality of conditions has become the old and
uncontested state of society, and has imparted its characteristics to the manners of a nation,
men will easily allow themselves to be thrust into perilous risks by an imprudent leader or
a bold innovator. Not indeed that they will resist him openly, by well-contrived schemes, or
even by a premeditated plan of resistance. They will not struggle energetically against him,
sometimes they will even applaud him--but they do not follow him. To his vehemence they secretly
oppose their inertia; to his revolutionary tendencies their conservative interests; their homely
tastes to his adventurous passions; their good sense to the flights of his genius; to his poetry
their prose. With immense exertion he raises them for an instant, but they speedily escape
from him, and fall back, as it were, by their own weight. He strains himself to rouse the indifferent
and distracted multitude, and finds at last that he is reduced to impotence, not because he
is conquered, but because he is alone.

I do not assert that men living in democratic communities are naturally stationary; I think,
on the contrary, that a perpetual stir prevails in the bosom of those societies, and that rest
is unknown there; but I think that men bestir themselves within certain limits beyond which
they hardly ever go. They are forever varying, altering, and restoring secondary matters; but
they carefully abstain from touching what is fundamental. They love change, but they dread
revolutions. Although the Americans are constantly modifying or abrogating some of their laws,
they by no means display revolutionary passions. It may be easily seen, from the promptitude
with which they check and calm themselves when public excitement begins to grow alarming, and
at the very moment when passions seem most roused, that they dread a revolution as the worst
of misfortunes, and that every one of them is inwardly resolved to make great sacrifices to
avoid such a catastrophe. In no country in the world is the love of property more active and
more anxious than in the United States; nowhere does the majority display less inclination
for those principles which threaten to alter, in whatever manner, the laws of property. I have
often remarked that theories which are of a revolutionary nature, since they cannot be put
in practice without a complete and sometimes a sudden change in the state of property and persons,
are much less favorably viewed in the United States than in the great monarchical countries
of Europe: if some men profess them, the bulk of the people reject them with instinctive abhorrence.
I do not hesitate to say that most of the maxims commonly called democratic in France would
be proscribed by the democracy of the United States. This may easily be understood: in America
men have the opinions and passions of democracy, in Europe we have still the passions and opinions
of revolution. If ever America undergoes great revolutions, they will be brought about by the
presence of the black race on the soil of the United States--that is to say, they will owe
their origin, not to the equality, but to the inequality, of conditions.

When social conditions are equal, every man is apt to live apart, centred in himself and forgetful
of the public. If the rulers of democratic nations were either to neglect to correct this fatal
tendency, or to encourage it from a notion that it weans men from political passions and thus
wards off revolutions, they might eventually produce the evil they seek to avoid, and a time
might come when the inordinate passions of a few men, aided by the unintelligent selfishness
or the pusillanimity of the greater number, would ultimately compel society to pass through
strange vicissitudes. In democratic communities revolutions are seldom desired except by a
minority; but a minority may sometimes effect them. I do not assert that democratic nations
are secure from revolutions; I merely say that the state of society in those nations does not
lead to revolutions, but rather wards them off. A democratic people left to itself will not
easily embark in great hazards; it is only led to revolutions unawares; it may sometimes undergo
them, but it does not make them; and I will add that, when such a people has been allowed to
acquire sufficient knowledge and experience, it will not suffer them to be made. I am well
aware that it this respect public institutions may themselves do much; they may encourage or
repress the tendencies which originate in the state of society. I therefore do not maintain,
I repeat, that a people is secure from revolutions simply because conditions are equal in the
community; but I think that, whatever the institutions of such a people may be, great revolutions
will always be far less violent and less frequent than is supposed; and I can easily discern
a state of polity, which, when combined with the principle of equality, would render society
more stationary than it has ever been in our western apart of the world.

The observations I have here made on events may also be applied in part to opinions. Two things
are surprising in the United States--the mutability of the greater part of human actions, and
the singular stability of certain principles. Men are in constant motion; the mind of man appears
almost unmoved. When once an opinion has spread over the country and struck root there, it
would seem that no power on earth is strong enough to eradicate it. In the United States, general
principles in religion, philosophy, morality, and even politics, do not vary, or at least are
only modified by a hidden and often an imperceptible process: even the grossest prejudices
are obliterated with incredible slowness, amidst the continual friction of men and things.
I hear it said that it is in the nature and the habits of democracies to be constantly changing
their opinions and feelings. This may be true of small democratic nations, like those of the
ancient world, in which the whole community could be assembled in a public place and then excited
at will by an orator. But I saw nothing of the kind amongst the great democratic people which
dwells upon the opposite shores of the Atlantic Ocean. What struck me in the United States
was the difficulty in shaking the majority in an opinion once conceived, or of drawing it off
from a leader once adopted. Neither speaking nor writing can accomplish it; nothing but experience
will avail, and even experience must be repeated. This is surprising at first sight, but a
more attentive investigation explains the fact. I do not think that it is as easy as is supposed
to uproot the prejudices of a democratic people--to change its belief--to supersede principles
once established, by new principles in religion, politics, and morals--in a word, to make great
and frequent changes in men's minds. Not that the human mind is there at rest--it is in constant
agitation; but it is engaged in infinitely varying the consequences of known principles, and
in seeking for new consequences, rather than in seeking for new principles. Its motion is one
of rapid circumvolution, rather than of straightforward impulse by rapid and direct effort;
it extends its orbit by small continual and hasty movements, but it does not suddenly alter
its position.

Men who are equal in rights, in education, in fortune, or, to comprise all in one word, in
their social condition, have necessarily wants, habits, and tastes which are hardly dissimilar.
As they look at objects under the same aspect, their minds naturally tend to analogous conclusions;
and, though each of them may deviate from his contemporaries and from opinions of his own,
they will involuntarily and unconsciously concur in a certain number of received opinions.
The more attentively I consider the effects of equality upon the mind, the more am I persuaded
that the intellectual anarchy which we witness about us is not, as many men suppose, the natural
state of democratic nations. I think it is rather to be regarded as an accident peculiar to
their youth, and that it only breaks out at that period of transition when men have already
snapped the former ties which bound them together, but are still amazingly different in origin,
education, and manners; so that, having retained opinions, propensities and tastes of great
diversity, nothing any longer prevents men from avowing them openly. The leading opinions of
men become similar in proportion as their conditions assimilate; such appears to me to be the
general and permanent law--the rest is casual and transient.

I believe that it will rarely happen to any man amongst a democratic community, suddenly to
frame a system of notions very remote from that which his contemporaries have adopted; and
if some such innovator appeared, I apprehend that he would have great difficulty in finding
listeners, still more in finding believers. When the conditions of men are almost equal, they
do not easily allow themselves to be persuaded by each other. As they all live in close intercourse,
as they have learned the same things together, and as they lead the same life, they are not
naturally disposed to take one of themselves for a guide, and to follow him implicitly. Men
seldom take the opinion of their equal, or of a man like themselves, upon trust. Not only is
confidence in the superior attainments of certain individuals weakened amongst democratic nations,
as I have elsewhere remarked, but the general notion of the intellectual superiority which
any man whatsoever may acquire in relation to the rest of the community is soon overshadowed.
As men grow more like each other, the doctrine of the equality of the intellect gradually infuses
itself into their opinions; and it becomes more difficult for any innovator to acquire or to
exert much influence over the minds of a people. In such communities sudden intellectual revolutions
will therefore be rare; for, if we read aright the history of the world, we shall find that
great and rapid changes in human opinions have been produced far less by the force of reasoning
than by the authority of a name. Observe, too, that as the men who live in democratic societies
are not connected with each other by any tie, each of them must be convinced individually;
whilst in aristocratic society it is enough to convince a few--the rest follow. If Luther had
lived in an age of equality, and had not had princes and potentates for his audience, he would
perhaps have found it more difficult to change the aspect of Europe. Not indeed that the men
of democracies are naturally strongly persuaded of the certainty of their opinions, or are
unwavering in belief; they frequently entertain doubts which no one, in their eyes, can remove.
It sometimes happens at such times that the human mind would willingly change its position;
but as nothing urges or guides it forwards, it oscillates to and fro without progressive motion. *a

[Footnote a: If I inquire what state of society is most favorable to the great revolutions
of the mind, I find that it occurs somewhere between the complete equality of the whole community
and the absolute separation of ranks. Under a system of castes generations succeed each other
without altering men's positions; some have nothing more, others nothing better, to hope for.
The imagination slumbers amidst this universal silence and stillness, and the very idea of
change fades from the human mind. When ranks have been abolished and social conditions are
almost equalized, all men are in ceaseless excitement, but each of them stands alone, independent
and weak. This latter state of things is excessively different from the former one; yet it
has one point of analogy--great revolutions of the human mind seldom occur in it. But between
these two extremes of the history of nations is an intermediate period--a period as glorious
as it is agitated--when the conditions of men are not sufficiently settled for the mind to
be lulled in torpor, when they are sufficiently unequal for men to exercise a vast power on
the minds of one another, and when some few may modify the convictions of all. It is at such
times that great reformers start up, and new opinions suddenly change the face of the world.]

Even when the reliance of a democratic people has been won, it is still no easy matter to gain
their attention. It is extremely difficult to obtain a hearing from men living in democracies,
unless it be to speak to them of themselves. They do not attend to the things said to them,
because they are always fully engrossed with the things they are doing. For indeed few men
are idle in democratic nations; life is passed in the midst of noise and excitement, and men
are so engaged in acting that little remains to them for thinking. I would especially remark
that they are not only employed, but that they are passionately devoted to their employments.
They are always in action, and each of their actions absorbs their faculties: the zeal which
they display in business puts out the enthusiasm they might otherwise entertain for idea. I
think that it is extremely difficult to excite the enthusiasm of a democratic people for any
theory which has not a palpable, direct, and immediate connection with the daily occupations
of life: therefore they will not easily forsake their old opinions; for it is enthusiasm which
flings the minds of men out of the beaten track, and effects the great revolutions of the intellect
as well as the great revolutions of the political world. Thus democratic nations have neither
time nor taste to go in search of novel opinions. Even when those they possess become doubtful,
they still retain them, because it would take too much time and inquiry to change them--they
retain them, not as certain, but as established.

