Did both her parents lose all love to life, when their sole daughter was taken away? And did
they die finally of broken hearts? No--such is not the natural working of the human spirit,
if kept in repair by pure and pious thought. Never were they so happy indeed as they had once
been--nor was their happiness of the same kind. Oh! different far in resignation that often
wept when it did not repine--in faith that now held a tenderer commerce with the skies! Smiles
were not very long of being again seen at Mount Pleasant. An orphan cousin of Mary's--they
had been as sisters--took her place, and filled it too, as far as the living can ever fill
the place of the dead. Common cares continued for a while to occupy the Elder and his wife,
for there were not a few to whom their substance was to be a blessing. Ordinary observers could
not have discerned any abatement of his activities in field or market; but others saw that
the toil to him was now but a duty that had formerly been a delight. Mount Pleasant was let
to a relative, and the Morrisons retired to a small house, with a garden, a few hundred yards
from the kirk. Let him be strong as a giant, infirmities often come on the hard-working man
before you can well call him old. It was so with Adam Morrison. He broke down fast, we have
been told, in his sixtieth year, and after that partook but of one sacrament. Not in tales
of fiction alone do those who have long loved and well, lay themselves down and die in each
other's arms. Such happy deaths are recorded on humble tombstones; and there is one on which
this inscription may be read--"HERE LIE THE BODIES OF ADAM MORRISON AND OF HELEN ARMOUR HIS
SPOUSE. THEY DIED ON THE 1ST OF MAY 17--. HERE ALSO LIES THE BODY OF THEIR DAUGHTER, MARY MORRISON,
WHO DIED JUNE 2, 17--." The headstone is a granite slab--as they almost all are in that kirkyard--and
the kirk itself is of the same enduring material. But touching that grave is a Marble Monument,
white almost as the very snow, and, in the midst of the emblazonry of death, adorned with the
armorial bearings belonging to a family of the high-born.

Sworn Brother of our soul! during the bright ardours of boyhood, when the present was all-sufficient
in its own bliss, the past soon forgotten, and the future unfeared, what might have been thy
lot, beloved Harry Wilton, had thy span of life been prolonged to this very day? Better--oh!
far better was it for thee and thine that thou didst so early die; for it seemeth that a curse
is on that lofty lineage; and that, with all their genius, accomplishments, and virtues, dishonour
comes and goes, a familiar and privileged guest, out and in their house. Shame never veiled
the light of those bold eyes, nor tamed the eloquence of those sunny lips, nor ever for a single
moment bowed down that young princely head that, like a fast-growing flower, seemed each successive
morning to be visibly rising up towards a stately manhood. But the time was not far distant,
when to thee life would have undergone a rueful transformation. Thy father, expatriated by
the spells of a sorceress, and forced into foreign countries, to associate with vice, worthlessness,
profligacy, and crime! Thy mother, dead of a broken heart! And that lovely sister, who came
to the Manse with her jewelled hair--But all these miserable things who could prophesy, at
the hour when we and the weeping villagers laid thee, apart from the palace and the burial-vault
of thy high-born ancestors, without anthem or organ-peal, among the humble dead? Needless and
foolish were all those floods of tears. In thy brief and beautiful course, nothing have we
who loved thee to lament or condemn. In few memories, indeed, doth thy image now survive; for
in process of time what young face fadeth not away from eyes busied with the shows of this
living world? What young voice is not bedumbed to ears for ever filled with its perplexing
din? Yet thou, Nature, on this glorious May-day, rejoicing in all the plenitude of thy bliss--we
call upon thee to bear witness to the intensity of our never-dying grief! Ye fields, that long
ago we so often trode together, with the wind-swept shadows hovering about our path--Ye streams,
whose murmur awoke our imaginations, as we lay reading, or musing together in day-dreams, among
the broomy braes--Ye woods, where we started at the startled cushat, or paused, without a word,
to hear the creature's solitary moans and murmurs deepening the far-off hush, already so profound--Ye
moors and mosses, black yet beautiful, with your peat-trenches overshadowed by the heather-blossoms
that scented the wilderness afar--where the little maiden, sent from the shieling on errands
to town or village in the country below, seemed, as we met her in the sunshine, to rise up
before us for our delight, like a fairy from the desert bloom--Thou loch, remote in thy treeless
solitude, and with nought reflected in thy many-springed waters but those low pastoral hills
of excessive green, and the white-barred blue of heaven--no creature on its shores but our
own selves, keenly angling in the breezes, or lying in the shaded sunshine, with some book
of old ballads, or strain of some Immortal yet alive on earth--one and all bear witness to
our undying affection, that silently now feeds on grief! And, oh! what overflowing thoughts
did that shout of ours now awaken from the hanging tower of the Old Castle--"Wilton, Wilton!"
The name of the long-ago buried faintly and afar-off repeated by an echo!

A pensive shade has fallen across MAY-DAY; and while the sun is behind those castellated clouds,
our imagination is willing to retire into the saddest places of memory, and gather together
stories and tales of tears. And many such there are, annually sprinkled all round the humble
huts of our imaginative and religious land, even like the wildflowers that, in endless succession,
disappearing and reappearing in their beauty, Spring drops down upon every brae. And as ofttimes
some one particular tune, some one pathetic but imperfect and fragmentary part of an old melody,
will nearly touch the heart, when it is dead to the finest and most finished strain; so now
a faint and dim tradition comes upon us, giving birth to uncertain and mysterious thoughts.
It is an old Tradition. They were called the BLESSED FAMILY! Far up at the head of yonder glen
of old was their dwelling, and in their garden sparkled the translucent well that is the source
of the stream that animates the parish with a hundred waterfalls. Father, mother, and daughter--it
was hard to say which of the three was the most beloved! Yet they were not native here, but
brought with them, from some distant place, the soft and silvery accents of the pure English
tongue, and manners most gracious in their serene simplicity; while over a life composed of
acts of charity was spread a stillness that nothing ever disturbed--the stillness of a thoughtful
pity for human sins and sorrows, yet not unwilling to be moved to smiles by the breath of joy.
In those days the very heart of Scotland was distracted--persecution scattered her prayers--and
during the summer months, families remained shut up in fear within their huts, as if the snowdrifts
of winter had blocked up and buried their doors. It was as if the shadow of a thunder-cloud
hung over all the land, so that men's hearts quaked as they looked up to heaven--when, lo!
all at once, Three gracious Visitants appeared! Imagination invested their foreheads with a
halo; and as they walked on their missions of mercy, exclaimed--How beautiful are their feet!
Few words was the Child ever heard to speak, except some words of prayer; but her image-like
stillness breathed a blessing wherever it smiled, and all the little maidens loved her, when
hushed almost into awe by her spiritual beauty, as she knelt with them in their morning and
evening orisons. The Mother's face, too, it is said, was pale as a face of grief, while her
eyes seemed always happy, and a tone of thanksgiving was in her voice. Her Husband leant upon
her on his way to the grave--for his eye's excessive brightness glittered with death--and often,
as he prayed beside the sick-bed, his cheek became like ashes, for his heart in a moment ceased
to beat, and then, as if about to burst in agony, sounded audibly in the silence. Journeying
on did they all seem to heaven; yet as they were passing by, how loving and how full of mercy!
To them belonged some blessed power to wave away the sword that would fain have smitten the
Saints. The dewdrops on the greensward before the cottage door, they suffered not to be polluted
with blood. Guardian Angels were they thought to be, and such indeed they were, for what else
are the holy powers of innocence?--Guardian Angels sent to save some of God's servants on earth
from the choking tide and the scorching fire. Often, in the clear and starry nights, did the
dwellers among all these little dells, and up along all these low hill-sides, hear music flowing
down from heaven, responsive to the hymns of the Blessed Family. Music without the syllabling
of words--yet breathing worship, and with the spirit of piety filling all the Night-Heavens.
One whole day and night passed by, and not a hut had been enlightened by their presence. Perhaps
they had gone away without warning as they had come--having been sent on another mission. With
soft steps one maiden, and then another, entered the door, and then was heard the voice of
weeping and of loud lament. The three lay, side by side, with their pale faces up to heaven.
Dora, for that is the name tradition has handed down--Dorothea, the gift of God, lay between
her Father and her Mother, and all their hands were lovingly and peacefully entwined. No agonies
had been there--unknown what hand, human or divine, had closed their eyelids and composed their
limbs; but there they lay as if asleep, not to be awakened by the burst of sunshine that dazzled
upon their smiling countenances, cheek to cheek, in the awful beauty of united death.

The deep religion of that troubled time had sanctified the Strangers almost into an angelic
character; and when the little kirk-bells were again heard tinkling through the air of peace
(the number of the martyrs being complete), the beauty with which their living foreheads had
been invested, reappeared to the eyes of imagination, as the Poets whom Nature kept to herself
walked along the moonlight hills. "The Blessed Family," which had been as a household word,
appertaining to them while they lived, now when centuries have gone by, is still full of a
dim but divine meaning; the spirit of the tradition having remained, while its framework has
almost fallen into decay.

