"I did not so entertain them, fair cousin," answered the King. "Out of compassion, indeed,
I received them in privacy, but took an early opportunity of placing them under the protection
of the late excellent Bishop, your own ally, and who was (may God assoil him!) a better judge
than I, or any secular prince, how to reconcile the protection due to fugitives with the duty
which a king owes to his ally, from whose dominions they have fled. I boldly ask this young
lady whether my reception of them was cordial, or whether it was not, on the contrary, such
as made them express regret that they had made my Court their place of refuge?"

"So much was it otherwise than cordial," answered the Countess, "that it induced me, at least,
to doubt how far it was possible that your Majesty should have actually given the invitation
of which we had been assured, by those who called themselves your agents, since, supposing
them to have proceeded only as they were duly authorized, it would have been hard to reconcile
your Majesty's conduct with that to be expected from a king, a knight, and a gentleman."

The Countess turned her eyes to the King as she spoke, with a look which was probably intended
as a reproach, but the breast of Louis was armed against all such artillery. On the contrary,
waving slowly his expanded hands, and looking around the circle, he seemed to make a triumphant
appeal to all present, upon the testimony borne to his innocence in the Countess's reply.

Burgundy, meanwhile, cast on him a look which seemed to say, that if in some degree silenced,
he was as far as ever from being satisfied, and then said abruptly to the Countess, "Methinks,
fair mistress, in this account of your wanderings, you have forgot all mention of certain love
passages.--So, ho, blushing already?--Certain knights of the forest, by whom your quiet was
for a time interrupted. Well--that incident hath come to our ear, and something we may presently
form out of it.--Tell me, King Louis, were it not well, before this vagrant Helen of Troy [the
wife of Menelaus. She was carried to Troy by Paris, and thus was the cause of the Trojan War],
or of Croye, set more Kings by the ears, were it not well to carve out a fitting match for her?"

King Louis, though conscious what ungrateful proposal was likely to be made next, gave a calm
and silent assent to what Charles said; but the Countess herself was restored to courage by
the very extremity of her situation. She quitted the arm of the Countess of Crevecoeur, on
which she had hitherto leaned, came forward timidly, yet with an air of dignity, and kneeling
before the Duke's throne, thus addressed him "Noble Duke of Burgundy, and my liege lord, I
acknowledge my fault in having withdrawn myself from your dominions without your gracious permission,
and will most humbly acquiesce in any penalty you are pleased to impose. I place my lands and
castles at your rightful disposal, and pray you only of your own bounty, and for the sake of
my memory, to allow the last of the line of Croye, out of her large estate, such a moderate
maintenance as may find her admission into a convent for the remainder of her life."

"What think you, Sire, of the young person's petition to us," said the Duke, addressing Louis.

"As of a holy and humble motion," said the King, "which doubtless comes from that grace which
ought not to be resisted or withstood."

"The humble and lowly shall be exalted," said Charles. "Arise, Countess Isabelle--we mean better
for you than you have devised for yourself. We mean neither to sequestrate your estates, nor
to abase your honours, but, on the contrary, will add largely to both."

"Alas! my lord," said the Countess, continuing on her knees, "it is even that well meant goodness
which I fear still more than your Grace's displeasure, since it compels me--"

"Saint George of Burgundy!" said Duke Charles, "is our will to be thwarted, and our commands
disputed, at every turn? Up, I say, minion, and withdraw for the present--when we have time
to think of thee, we will so order matters that, Teste Saint Gris! you shall either obey us,
or do worse."

Notwithstanding this stern answer, the Countess Isabelle remained at his feet, and would probably,
by her pertinacity, have driven him to say upon the spot something yet more severe, had not
the Countess of Crevecoeur, who better knew that Prince's humour, interfered to raise her young
friend, and to conduct her from the hall.

Quentin Durward was now summoned to appear, and presented himself before the King and Duke
with that freedom, distant alike from bashful reserve and intrusive boldness, which becomes
a youth at once well born and well nurtured, who gives honour where it is due but without permitting
himself to be dazzled or confused by the presence of those to whom it is to be rendered. His
uncle had furnished him with the means of again equipping himself in the arms and dress of
an Archer of the Scottish Guard, and his complexion, mien, and air suited in an uncommon degree
his splendid appearance. His extreme youth, too, prepossessed the councillors in his favour,
the rather that no one could easily believe that the sagacious Louis would have chosen so very
young a person to become the confidant of political intrigues; and thus the King enjoyed, in
this, as in other cases, considerable advantage from his singular choice of agents, both as
to age and rank, where such election seemed least likely to be made. At the command of the
Duke, sanctioned by that of Louis, Quentin commenced an account of his journey with the Ladies
of Croye to the neighbourhood of Liege, premising a statement of King Louis's instructions,
which were that he should escort them safely to the castle of the Bishop.

"And you obeyed my orders accordingly," said the King.

"I did, Sire," replied the Scot.

"You omit a circumstance," said the Duke. "You were set upon in the forest by two wandering
knights."

"It does not become me to remember or to proclaim such an incident," said the youth, blushing
ingenuously.

"But it doth not become me to forget it," said the Duke of Orleans. "This youth discharged
his commission manfully, and maintained his trust in a manner that I shall long remember.--Come
to my apartment, Archer, when this matter is over, and thou shalt find I have not forgot thy
brave bearing, while I am glad to see it is equalled by thy modesty."

"And come to mine," said Dunois. "I have a helmet for thee, since I think I owe thee one."

Quentin bowed low to both, and the examination was resumed. At the command of Duke Charles
he produced the written instructions which he had received for the direction of his journey.

"Did you follow these instructions literally, soldier?" said the Duke.

"No; if it please your Grace," replied Quentin. "They directed me, as you may be pleased to
observe, to cross the Maes near Namur; whereas I kept the left bank, as being both the nigher
and the safer road to Liege."

"And wherefore that alteration?" said the Duke.

"Because I began to suspect the fidelity of my guide," answered Quentin.

"Now mark the questions I have next to ask thee," said the Duke. "Reply truly to them, and
fear nothing from the resentment of any one. But if you palter or double in your answers I
will have thee hung alive in an iron chain from the steeple of the market house, where thou
shalt wish for death for many an hour ere he come to relieve you!"

There was a deep silence ensued. At length, having given the youth time, as he thought, to
consider the circumstances in which he was placed, the Duke demanded to know of Durward who
his guide was, by whom supplied, and wherefore he had been led to entertain suspicion of him.
To the first of these questions Quentin Durward answered by naming Hayraddin Maugrabin, the
Bohemian; to the second, that the guide had been recommended by Tristan l'Hermite; and in reply
to the third point he mentioned what had happened in the Franciscan convent near Namur, how
the Bohemian had been expelled from the holy house, and how, jealous of his behaviour, he had
dogged him to a rendezvous with one of William de la Marck's lanzknechts, where he overheard
them arrange a plan for surprising the ladies who were under his protection.

"Now, hark," said the Duke, "and once more remember thy life depends on thy veracity, did these
villains mention their having this King's--I mean this very King Louis of France's authority
for their scheme of surprising the escort and carrying away the ladies?"

"If such infamous fellows had said," replied Quentin, "I know not how I should have believed
them, having the word of the King himself to place in opposition to theirs."

Louis, who had listened hitherto with most earnest attention, could not help drawing his breath
deeply when he heard Durward's answer, in the manner of one from whose bosom a heavy weight
has been at once removed. The Duke again looked disconcerted and moody, and, returning to the
charge, questioned Quentin still more closely, whether he did not understand, from these men's
private conversation, that the plots which they meditated had King Louis's sanction?

"I repeat that I heard nothing which could authorize me to say so," answered the young man,
who, though internally convinced of the King's accession to the treachery of Hayraddin, yet
held it contrary to his allegiance to bring forward his own suspicions on the subject; "and
if I had heard such men make such an assertion, I again say that I would not have given their
testimony weight against the instructions of the King himself."

"Thou art a faithful messenger," said the Duke, with a sneer, "and I venture to say that, in
obeying the King's instructions, thou hast disappointed his expectations in a manner that thou
mightst have smarted for, but that subsequent events have made thy bull headed fidelity seem
like good service."

"I understand you not, my lord," said Quentin Durward, "all I know is that my master King Louis
sent me to protect these ladies, and that I did so accordingly, to the extent of my ability,
both in the journey to Schonwaldt, and through the subsequent scenes which took place. I understood
the instructions of the King to be honourable, and I executed them honourably; had they been
of a different tenor, they would not have suited one of my name or nation."

"Fier comme an Ecossois," said Charles, who, however disappointed at the tenor of Durward's
reply, was not unjust enough to blame him for his boldness. "But hark thee, Archer, what instructions
were those which made thee, as some sad fugitives from Schonwaldt have informed us, parade
the streets of Liege, at the head of those mutineers, who afterwards cruelly murdered their
temporal Prince and spiritual Father? And what harangue was it which thou didst make after
that murder was committed, in which you took upon you, as agent for Louis, to assume authority
among the villains who had just perpetrated so great a crime?"

