"Well, at any rate," said Digo, brightening up, "I don't believe his doctrine about de doings
of de unregenerate,--it's quite clear he's wrong dar."

"Who cares?" said Candace,--"generate or unregenerate, it's all one to me. I believe a man
dat acts as he does. Him as stands up for de poor,--him as pleads for de weak,--he's my man.
I'll believe straight through anyting he's a mind to put at me."

At this juncture, Mary's fair face appearing at the door put a stop to the discussion.

"Bress you, Miss Mary! comin' here like a fresh June rose! it makes a body's eyes dance in
deir head! Come right in! I got Cato up from de lot, 'cause he's rader poorly dis mornin';
his cough makes me a sight o' concern; he's allers a-pullin' off his jacket de wrong time,
or doin' sometin' I tell him not to,--and it just keeps him hack, hack, hackin', all de time."

During this speech, Cato stood meekly bowing, feeling that he was being apologized for in the
best possible manner; for long years of instruction had fixed the idea in his mind, that he
was an ignorant sinner, who had not the smallest notion how to conduct himself in this world,
and that, if it were not for his wife's distinguishing grace, he would long since have been
in the shades of oblivion.

"Missis is spinnin' up in de north chamber," said Candace; "but I'll run up and fetch her down."

Candace, who was about the size of a puncheon, was fond of this familiar manner of representing
her mode of ascending the stairs; but Mary, suppressing a smile, said, "Oh, no, Candace! don't
for the world disturb her. I know just where she is." And before Candace could stop her, Mary's
light foot was on the top step of the staircase that led up from the kitchen.

The north room was a large chamber, overlooking a splendid reach of sea-prospect. A moving
panorama of blue water and gliding sails was unrolled before its three windows, so that stepping
into the room gave one an instant and breezy sense of expansion. Mrs. Marvyn was standing at
the large wheel, spinning wool,--a reel and basket of spools on her side. Her large brown eyes
had an eager joy in them when Mary entered; but they seemed to calm down again, and she received
her only with that placid, sincere air which was her habit. Everything about this woman showed
an ardent soul, repressed by timidity and by a certain dumbness in the faculties of outward
expression; but her eyes had, at times, that earnest, appealing language which is so pathetic
in the silence of inferior animals.--One sometimes sees such eyes, and wonders whether the
story they intimate will ever be spoken in mortal language.

Mary began eagerly detailing to her all that had interested her since they last met:--the party,--her
acquaintance with Burr,--his visit to the cottage,--his inquiries into her education and reading,--and,
finally, the proposal, that they should study French together.

"My dear," said Mrs. Marvyn, "let us begin at once;--such an opportunity is not to be lost.
I studied a little with James, when he was last at home."

"With James?" said Mary, with an air of timid surprise.

"Yes,--the dear boy has become, what I never expected, quite a student. He employs all his
spare time now in reading and studying;--the second mate is a Frenchman, and James has got
so that he can both speak and read. He is studying Spanish, too."

Ever since the last conversation with her mother on the subject of James, Mary had felt a sort
of guilty constraint when any one spoke of him;--instead of answering frankly, as she once
did, when anything brought his name up, she fell at once into a grave, embarrassed silence.

Mrs. Marvyn was so constantly thinking of him, that it was difficult to begin on any topic
that did not in some manner or other knit itself into the one ever present in her thoughts.
None of the peculiar developments of the female nature have a more exquisite vitality than
the sentiment of a frail, delicate, repressed, timid woman for a strong, manly, generous son.
There is her ideal expressed; there is the out-speaking and out-acting of all she trembles
to think, yet burns to say or do; here is the hero that shall speak for her, the heart into
which she has poured hers, and that shall give to her tremulous and hidden aspirations a strong
and victorious expression. "I have gotten a man from the Lord," she says to herself; and each
outburst of his manliness, his vigor, his self-confidence, his superb vitality, fills her with
a strange, wondering pleasure, and she has a secret tenderness and pride even in his wilfulness
and waywardness. "What a creature he is!" she says, when he flouts at sober argument and pitches
all received opinions hither and thither in the wild capriciousness of youthful paradox. She
looks grave and reproving; but he reads the concealed triumph in her eyes,--he knows that in
her heart she is full of admiration all the time. First love of womanhood is something wonderful
and mysterious,--but in this second love it rises again, idealized and refined; she loves the
father and herself united and made one in this young heir of life and hope.

Such was Mrs. Marvyn's still intense, passionate love for her son. Not a tone of his manly
voice, not a flash of his dark eyes, not one of the deep, shadowy dimples that came and went
as he laughed, not a ring of his glossy black hair, that was not studied, got by heart, and
dwelt on in the inner shrine of her thoughts; he was the romance of her life. His strong, daring
nature carried her with it beyond those narrow, daily bounds where her soul was weary of treading;
and just as his voyages had given to the trite prose of her ménage a poetry of strange, foreign
perfumes, of quaint objects of interest, speaking of many a far-off shore, so his mind and
life were a constant channel of outreach through which her soul held converse with the active
and stirring world. Mrs. Marvyn had known all the story of her son's love, and to no other
woman would she have been willing to resign him; but her love to Mary was so deep, that she
thought of his union with her more as gaining a daughter than as losing a son. She would not
speak of the subject; she knew the feelings of Mary's mother; and the name of James fell so
often from her lips, simply because it was so ever-present in her heart that it could not be
helped.

Before Mary left, it was arranged that they should study together, and that the lessons should
be given alternately at each other's houses; and with this understanding they parted.

[To be continued.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PROFESSOR AT THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

WHAT HE SAID, WHAT HE HEARD, AND WHAT HE SAW. Many horses have trotted their mile under 2.30;
none that I remember in public as low down in the twenties as 2.24.

       *       *       *       *       *

ART.

THE HEART OF THE ANDES.

We Americans, amidst the confusion and stir of material interests, are not inattentive to the
progress of those claims whose growth is as silent as that of the leaves around us, and whose
values find no echo in Wall Street.

With the spring there has bloomed in New York a flower of no common beauty. All the fashion
and influence there have been to hail this growth of our soil at its cloistered home in Tenth
Street. There is but one opinion of the beauty and novelty of the stranger. It is of the "Heart
of the Andes," by Mr. Frederick E. Church, we speak. This artist, now known for some years
as he who has with most daring tracked to its depths the witchery and wonder of our summer
skies, and the results of whose two visits to South America have ere this shown how sensitive
and sure the photograph of his memory is, gives us from the trop-plein of his souvenirs this
last and crowning page.

We hold the merit and charm of Mr. Church's works to be, that they are so American in feeling
and treatment. What chiefly distinguishes America from Europe, as the object of landscape,
is, that Europe is the region of "bits," of picturesque compositions, of sunflecked lanes,
of nestling villages, and castle-crowned steeps,--while with us everything is less condensed,
on a wider scale, and with vaster spaces.

Mr. Church has the eagle eye to measure this vastness. He loves a wide expanse, a boundless
horizon. He does not, gypsy-like, hide with Gainsborough beneath a hedge, but his glance sweeps
across a continent, and no detail escapes him. This is what makes the "Andes" a really marvellous
picture. In intellectual grasp, clear and vivid apprehension of what he wants and where to
put it, we think Mr. Church without an equal. Quite a characteristic of his is a love of detail
and finish without injury to breadth and general effect. You look into his picture with an
opera-glass as you would into the next field from an open window. His power is not so much
one of suggestion, an appeal to the beauty and grandeur in yourself, as the ability to become
a colorless medium to beauty and grandeur from without; hence the impression is at first hand,
and such as Nature herself produces.

The world abounds in pictures where loving human faculty has lifted ordinary motives into our
sympathy; but where the subject is the grandest landscape affluence of the world, effect, in
the ordinary sense, ceases to be of value. We need the thing, and no human ennobling of it.
In this picture we have it; no spectral cloud-pile, but a real Chimborazo, with the hoar of
eternity upon its scalp, looks down upon the happy New-Yorker in his first May perspiration.
And as the wind sets east, no yellow hint at something warming, but whole dales and plains
still in the real sunshine, take the chill from off his heart. No wonder he, his wife, and
his quietly enthusiastic girls throng and sit there. They are proud in their hearts of the
handsome young painter. And well they may be! Never has the New World sent so native a flavor
to the Old. Unlike so many others of our good artists, there is no saturation from the past
in Mr. Church. No souvenir of what once was warm and new in the heart of Claude or Poussin
ages the fresh work. It has a relish of our soil; its almost Yankee knowingness, its placid,
clear, intellectual power, with its delicate sentiment and strong self-reliance, are ours;
we delightfully feel that it belongs to us, and that we are of it.

Such is the last great work of the New York school of landscape,--a living school, and destined
to long triumphs,--already appreciated and nobly encouraged. Its members are men as individual
and various in their gifts, as they are harmonious and manly in their mutual recognition and
fellowship.

       *       *       *       *       *

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Love Me Little, Love Me Long. By CHARLES READE, Author of "It is Never too Late to Mend," "White
Lies," etc. New York: Harper & Brothers. 1859.

This is the last, and in many respects the best, of Mr. Charles Reade's literary achievements.
Its popularity, we are informed, exceeds that of any of his former works, excepting the first
two published by him, "Peg Woffington," and "Christie Johnstone," which a few years ago startled
the novel-reading world by their eccentricity of style, their ingenious novelty of construction,
and also by their freshness of sentiment,--comet-books, pursuing one another in erratic orbits
of thought, now close upon the central light of Truth, now distantly remote from it, but always
brilliant, and generally leaving a sparkling train of recollection behind. The author's subsequent
productions, until the present, have been less successful; some by reason of their positive
inferiority; some because of their extraordinary affectations of expression, repelling the
multitude, who do not choose to risk their brains through unlimited pages of labyrinthine rhetoric;
some, perhaps, because of their doubtful paternity, evidences of French origin being in many
places discernible. Here, however, there appears a manifest improvement. This story is exquisitely
simple in conception, and the narration is mostly full of ease and grace, although the unfolding
of the plot is less direct than might have been expected from an author who professes so deep
a regard for the dramatic order of development. There is, for instance, an episodical chapter
of upwards of thirty pages, describing commercial England in a state of panic, which is very
nearly as appropriate as a disquisition on the Primary Rocks, or an inquiry into the origin
of the Cabala would be, but which is so palpably introduced for the purpose of displaying the
author's financial erudition, that he feels himself called upon to apologize in a brief preface
for its intrusion. In the concluding chapters, too, the various threads of interest are gathered
together with very little artistic compactness. The reader is disappointed at the tameness
of the culmination, compared with the vigor of the approach thereto. But otherwise there is
much to be charmed with, and not a little to admire.

Mr. Reade has renounced a good number of the odd fancies which at one time pervaded him. We
find no traces of the [Greek: stigmatophobia] with which he was formerly afflicted. Nouns are
wedded to obedient adjectives, adverbs to their willing verbs, by the lawful mediation of the
recognized authorities of punctuation, the illegitimate and licentious disregard of which,
as recklessly manifested in "It is Never too Late to Mend," indicated a disposition to entirely
subvert the established morals of the language. It is pleasant to see how unreservedly Mr.
Reade has abandoned his functions as apostle of grammatical free-love. Of tricks of typography
there are also fewer, although these yet remain in an excess which good taste can hardly sanction.
We often find whole platoons of admiration-points stretching out in line, to give extraordinary
emphasis to sentences already sufficiently forcible. We sometimes encounter extravagant varieties
of type, humorously intended, but the use of which seems a game hardly worth Mr. Reade's candle,
which certainly possesses enough illuminating power of its own, without seeking additional
refulgence by such commonplace expedients.

