THE MIRROR

OF

LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

No. 325.] SATURDAY, AUGUST 2, 1828. [Price 2d.

ALL-SOULS' CHURCH, LANGHAM-PLACE.

Vol. XII. F

ALL-SOULS' CHURCH,

LANGHAM PLACE.

 "Whoever walks through London streets,"
  Said Momus to the son of Saturn,
 "Each day new edifices meets,
  Of queer proportion, queerer pattern:
If thou, O cloud-compelling god,
  Wilt aid me with thy special grace,
I, too, will wield my motley hod,
  And build a church in Langham-place."

 "Agreed," the Thunderer cries; "go plant
  Thine edifice, I care not how ill;
Take notice, earth. I hereby grant
  Carte blanche of mortar, stone, and trowel.
Go Hermes, Hercules, and Mars,
  Fraught with these bills on Henry Hase,
Drop with yon jester from the stars,
  And build a church in Langham-place."

         London Lyrics-New Monthly Mag.

Among all our specimens of contemporary church-building, none has excited more animadversion
than All-Souls', Langham-place, erected in 1822-1825, from the designs of Mr. Nash. Its general
effect is extraordinary and objectionable; but, unfortunately for what merit it really possesses,
many of its assailants have so far disregarded the just principles of taste and criticism,
as to go laboriously out of their way to be profanely witty on its defects. Song and satire,
raillery and ridicule, pun and pasquinade, and even the coarseness of caricature, have thus
been let off at this specimen of NASH-ional architecture; whilst their authors have wittingly
kept out any redeeming graces which could be found in its architectural details.

The principal features of the exterior were suggested by its situation, it being placed on
an angular plot of ground, between Langham-place and Regent-street. To afford an advantageous
view from either point, the tower, which is circular, is nearly detached from the body of the
church, and is surrounded by columns of the modern Ionic order, supporting an entablature,
crowned by a balustrade, which is continued along the sides of the church. Above the portico
is a Corinthian peristyle, the base of which is also that of a fluted cone, which forms the
spire, and is terminated in an acute point. The steeple is complete in itself, and adapted
to its situation, having the same appearance which ever way it is viewed. This portion of the
edifice has, however, been more stigmatized than any other, although it has been pronounced
by persons of taste and accredited judgment to be the best steeple recently erected. To our
eye, the church itself, apart from the tower, (for such it almost is) is perhaps, one of the
most miserable structures in the metropolis,--in its starved proportions more resembling a
manufactory, or warehouse, than the impressive character of a church exterior; an effect to
which the Londoner is not an entire stranger. Here, too, we are inclined to ascribe much of
the ridicule, which the whole church has received, to its puny proportions and scantiness of
decoration, which are far from being assisted by any stupendousness in their details, the first
impression of which might probably have fixed the attention of the spectator. Indeed, the whole
style of the tower and steeple appears peculiarly illadapted for so small a scale as has here
been attempted.

As we love "a jest's prosperity," we recommend such of our readers as are partial to innocent
pasquinade, to turn to the "Lyric," in a recent volume of the New Monthly Magazine, commencing
as above. It is too long for entire insertion here, but its raciness will doubtless gratify
those who may be induced to refer to it.

       *       *       *       *       *

TREMENDOUS RAINS.

(For the Mirror.)

Like a low-hung cloud, it rains so fast, That all at once it falls.--DRYDEN.

There are two English proverbs relative to rain; the first is, "It rains by Planets." "This
the country people (says Ray) use when it rains in one place and not in another; meaning that
the showers are governed by planets, which being erratic in their own motions, cause such uncertain
wandering of clouds and falls of rain. Or it rains by planets--that is, the falls of showers
are as uncertain, as the motions of the planets are imagined to be." The second--"It never
rains but it pours:" which appears to be the case at present. In the year 553 it rained violently
in Scotland for five months; in 918 there was a continual rain in that country for five months;
a violent one in London 1222; again 1233, so violent that the harvest did not begin till Michaelmas;
1338, from Midsummer to Christmas, so that there was not one day or night dry together; in
Wales, which destroyed 10,000 sheep, September 19th 1752; in Languedoc, which destroyed the
village of Bar le Due, April 26th, 1776; and in the Island of Cuba, on the 21st of June, 1791,
3,000 persons and 11,700 cattle of various kinds perished by the torrents occasioned by the rains.

P. T. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS SCRAPS.

(For the Mirror.)

The first dissection on record, is one in which Democritus of Obdera, was engaged, in order
to ascertain the sources and course of the bile.--It was the custom among the Egyptians, to
carry about at their feasts a skeleton, least their guests, in the midst of feasting and merriment,
should forget the frail tenure of life and its enjoyments.

The most ancient eclipse upon record, was observed by the Chaldeans 721 years before the Christian
era, and recorded by Ptolemy. This standard is supposed to have been deposited, with other
measures, &c. in Winchester; he likewise (it is said) ordered halfpence and farthings to be
made round, which before his time were square.--The Universities of Oxford and Cambridge were
first called "studia," or "studies."--Edward the Confessor received yearly, from the manor
of Barton, near Gloucester, 3,000 loaves of bread for the maintenance of his dogs--In the reign
of Edward III., only three taverns might sell sweet wines in London; one in Cheape, one in
Wallbrook, and the other in Lombard Street.--Lord Lyttleton, in his Life of Henry II., vol.
i. p. 50, says, "Most of our ancient historians give him the character of a very religious
prince, but his religion was, after the fashion of those times, belief without examination,
and devotion without piety. It was a religion that at the same time allowed him to pillage
kingdoms, that threw him on his knees before a relic or a cross, but suffered him unrestrained
to trample upon the liberties and rights of mankind;" again, "his government was harsh and
despotic, violating even the principles of that institution which he himself had established.
Yet so far he performed the duty of a sovereign that he took care to maintain a good police
in his realm; which, in the tumultuous state of his government, was a great and difficult work."
How well he performed it, we may learn even from the testimony of a contemporary Saxon historian,
who says, "during his reign a man might have travelled in perfect security all over the kingdom,
with his bosom full of gold; nor durst any kill another in revenge of the greatest offences,
nor offer violence to the chastity of a woman. But it was a poor compensation that the highways
were safe, when the courts of justice were dens of thieves, and when almost every man in authority,
or in office, used his power to oppress and pillage the people."--Towards the close of the
life of Henry IV., he kept the regal diadem always in his sight by day, and at night it shared
his pillow. Once the Prince of Wales, whom Henry always suspected more than he loved, seeing
his father in a most violent paroxysm of disease, removed the crown from his bed. The king
on his recovery missed it, sent for his son, and taxed him with his impatience and want of
duty, but the prince defended his conduct with such rational modesty, that Henry, convinced
of his innocence, embraced and blessed him. "Alas!" said Henry to his son, "you know too well
how I gained this crown. How will you defend this ill-gotten possession?" "With my sword,"
said the prince, "as my father has done."

Henry V. was, perhaps, the first English monarch who had ships of his own. Two of these, which
sailed against Harfleur, were called "The King's Chamber," and "The King's Hall." They had
purple sails, and were large and beautiful.

Party rage ran so high in 1403, that an act of parliament was found necessary to declare, "Pulling
out of eyes and cutting out of tongues to be felony."--Dr. Rush, of Philadelphia, in his "Inquiry
into the effects of spirituous liquors on the human body, and their influence on the happiness
of society;" says, "Among the inhabitants of cities, spirits produce debts, disgrace, and bankruptcy.
Among farmers, they produce idleness with its usual consequence, such as houses without windows,
barns without roofs, gardens without enclosures, fields without fences, hogs without yokes,
sheep without wool, meagre cattle, feeble horses, and half clad, dirty children, without principles,
morals, or manners."

P. T. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Shower of Sugar Plums--Charles XI., attended by his court, had been hunting in the neighbourhood
of Carcassone. After the stag had been taken, a gentleman of the neighbourhood invited the
king to a splendid dinner which he had prepared for him. At the conclusion of the banquet the
ceiling of the hall suddenly opened, a thick cloud, descended and burst over their heads like
a thunder storm, pouring forth a shower of sugar-plums instead of hail, which was succeeded
by a gentle rain of rose-water.

The Coin Guinea--In the reign of king Charles II., when Sir Robert Holmes, of the Isle of Wight,
brought gold-dust from the coast of Guinea, a guinea first received its name from that country.

A Motto.--A constant frequenter of city feasts, having grown enormously fat, it was proposed
to write on his back, "Widened at the expense of the corporation of London."

Sedan-chairs and Hackney-coaches.--Sir S. Duncombe, predecessor to Duncombe Lord Feversham,
and gentleman pensioner to King James and Charles I., introduced sedan-chairs into this country,
anno 1634, when he procured a patent that vested in him and his heirs the sole right of carrying
persons up and down in them for a certain sum. Sir Saunders had been a great traveller, and
saw these chairs at Sedan, where they were first invented. It is remarkable that Capt. Bailey
introduced the use of hackney-coaches in this year; a tolerable ride might then be obtained,
in either of these vehicles for four pence.

Heroism--Seward, "the brave Earl of Northumberland," feeling in his sickness that he drew near
his end, quitted his bed and put on his armour, saying, "That it became not a man to die like
a beast," on which he died standing; an act as singular as it was heroic.

Epigram on Epigrams. What is an epigram? a dwarfish whole, Its body brevity, and wit its soul.

W. H. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE MOUSE TOWER"

A GERMAN LEGEND.

(For the Mirror.)

The bishop of Mentz was a wealthy prince,
  Wealthy and proud was he;
He had all that was worth a wish on earth--
  But he had not charitie!

He would stretch put his empty hands to bless,
  Or lift them both to pray;
But alack! to lighten man's distress,
  They moved no other way.

A famine came! but his heart was still
  As hard as his pride was high;
And the starving poor but throng'd his door
  To curse him and to die.

At length from the crowd rose a clamour so loud,
  That a cruel plot laid he;
He open'd one of his granaries wide,
  And bade them enter free.

In they rush'd--the maid and the sire.
  And the child that could barely run--
Then he clos'd the barn, and set it on fire.
  And burnt them every one!

And loud he laugh'd at each terrible shriek,
  And cried to his archer-train,
"The merry mice!--how shrill they squeak!--
  They are fond of the bishop's grain!"

But mark, what an awful judgment soon,
  On the cruel bishop fell;
With so many mice his palace swarm'd,
  That in it he could not dwell.

They gnaw'd the arras above and beneath,
  They eat each savoury dish up;
And shortly their sacrilegious teeth
  Began to nibble the bishop!

He flew to his castle of Ehrenfels,
  By the side of the Rhine so fair;
But they found the road to his new abode,
  And came in legions there.

He built him, in haste, a tower tall
  In the tide, for his better assurance;
But they swam the river, and scal'd the wall,
  And worried him past endurance.

One morning his skeleton there was seen,
  By a load of flesh the lighter;
They had picked his bones uncommonly clean,
  And eaten his very mitre!

Such was the end of the bishop of Mentz,
  And oft at the midnight hour,
He comes in the shape of a fog so dense,
  And sits on his old "Mouse-Tower."

C.K.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRUSSIC ACID.

(For the Mirror.)

The circumstance of Montgomery's recent suicide in Newgate, has led me to send you the following
remarks upon the nature and properties of that most violent poison, Prussic acid, with which
the unfortunate man terminated his existence.

Were we to consider the constituent parts and properties of the most common things we are in
the habit of daily using, and their poisonous and destructive natures, we should recoil at
the deadly potion, and shrink from the loathsome draught we are about to take. That which we
consider the most delicious and exhilarating portion of our common beverage, porter, contains
carbonic acid gas, commonly known by the "spirit," and which the poor miners dread with the
utmost horror, like the Arabian does the destructive blast of the simoon. Oxalic acid, so much
the fear of those accustomed to the medicine--Epsom salts, is made from that useful article,
sugar, by uniting with it a smaller portion, more than it has naturally, of oxygen gas. The
air we breathe contains a most deadly poison, called by chemists azotic gas, which, by its
being mixed with what is called vital air, (oxygen gas,) becomes necessary to our existence,
as much as the one (vital air or oxygen gas) would be prejudicial without the other; and Prussic
acid, the most violent of all poisons, is contained in the common bitter-almond. But these
most destructive substances are always found combined with others, which render them often
perfectly harmless, and can be separated only by the skill of the chemist.

The Prussic acid (by some called hydrocyanic acid) is a liquid, extracted from vegetables,
and contains one part of cyanogen and one part of hydrogen. It is extracted from the bitter-almond,
(as has been stated,) peach-blossom, and the leaves of the laurocerasus. It may also be obtained
from animal substances, although a vegetable acid. If lime be added to water, distilled from
these substances, a Prussiate of lime is formed; when, if an acid solution of iron be added
to this mixture, common Prussian blue (or Prussiate of iron) is precipitated. The acid may
be obtained from Prussiate of potash, by making a strong solution of this salt, and then adding
as much tartaric acid as will precipitate the potash, when the acid will be left in solution,
which must be decanted and distilled.

