"I am not sure," he said, as they were driving one day, "that it is not now the handsomest
capital in the world; at any rate, it is on its way to be that. No other has public buildings
more imposing, or streets and avenues so attractive in their interrupted regularity, so many
stately vistas ending in objects refreshing to the eye--a bit of park, banks of flowers, a
statue or a monument that is decorative, at least in the distance. As the years go on we shall
have finer historical groups, triumphal arches and columns that will give it more and more
an air of distinction, the sort of splendor with which the Roman Empire celebrated itself,
and, added to this, the libraries and museums and galleries that are the chief attractions
of European cities. Oh, we have only just begun--the city is so accessible in all directions,
and lends itself to all sorts of magnificence and beauty."

"I declare," said Mrs. Morgan to Margaret, "I didn't know that he could be so eloquent. Page,
you ought to be in Congress."

"In order to snuff myself out? Congress is not so important a feature as it used to be. Washington
is getting to have a character of its own; it seems as if it wouldn't be much without its official
life, yet the process is going on here that is so marked all over the country--the divorce
of social and political life. I used to think, fifteen years ago, that Washington was a standing
contradiction to the old aphorism that a democracy cannot make society--there was no more agreeable
society in the world than that in Washington even ten years ago: society selected itself somehow
without any marked class distinction, and it was delightfully simple and accessible."

"And what has changed it?" Margaret asked.

"Money, which changes everything and everybody. The whole scale has altered. There is so much
more display and expense. I remember when a private carriage in Washington was a rare object.
The possession of money didn't help one much socially. What made a person desired in any company
was the talent of being agreeable, talent of some sort, not the ability to give a costly dinner
or a big ball."

"But there are more literary and scientific people here, everybody says," said Margaret, who
was becoming a partisan of the city.

"Yes, and they keep more to themselves--withdraw into their studies, or hive in their clubs.
They tell me that the delightful informality and freedom of the old life is gone. Ask the old
Washington residents whether the coming in of rich people with leisure hasn't demoralized society,
or stiffened it, and made it impossible after the old sort. It is as easy here now as anywhere
else to get together a very heavy dinner party--all very grand, but it isn't amusing. It is
more and more like New York."

"But we have been to delightful dinners," Margaret insisted.

"No doubt. There are still houses of the old sort, where wit and good-humor and free hospitality
are more conspicuous than expense; but when money selects, there is usually an incongruous
lot about the board. An oracular scientist at the club the other night put it rather neatly
when he said that a society that exists mainly to pay its debts gets stupid."

"That's as clever," Margaret retorted, "as the remark of an under-secretary at a cabinet reception
the other night, that it is one thing to entertain and another to be entertaining. I won't
have you slander Washington. I should like to spend all my winters here."

"Dear me!" said Morgan, "I've been praising Washington. I should like to live here also, if
I had the millions of Jerry Hollowell. Jerry is going to build a palace out on the Massachusetts
Avenue extension bigger than the White House."

"I don't want to hear anything about Hollowell."

"But he is the coming man. He represents the democratic plutocracy that we are coming to."

All Morgan's banter couldn't shake Margaret's enjoyment of the cheerful city. "You like it
as well as anybody," she told him. And in truth he and Mrs. Morgan dipped into every gayety
that was going. "Of course I do," he said, "for a couple of weeks. I shouldn't like to be obliged
to follow it as a steady business. Washington is a good place to take a plunge occasionally.
And then you can go home and read King Solomon with appreciation."

Margaret had thought when she came to Washington that she should spend a good deal of time
at the Capitol, listening to the eloquence of the Senators and Representatives, and that she
should study the collections and the Patent-office and explore all the public buildings, in
which she had such intense historical interest as a teacher in Brandon. But there was little
time for these pleasures, which weighed upon her like duties. She did go to the Capitol once,
and tired herself out tramping up and down, and was very proud of it all, and wondered how
any legislation was ever accomplished, and was confused by the hustling about, the swinging
of doors, the swarms in the lobbies, and the racing of messengers, and concluded unjustly that
it was a big hive of whispered conference, and bargaining, and private interviewing. Morgan
asked her if she expected that the business of sixty millions of people was going to be done
with the order and decorum of a lyceum debating society. In one of the committee-rooms she
saw Hollowell, looking at ease, and apparently an indispensable part of the government machine.
Her own husband, who had accompanied the party, she lost presently, whisked away somewhere.
He was sought in vain afterwards, and at last Margaret came away dazed and stunned by the noise
of the wheels of the great republic in motion. She did not try it again, and very little strolling
about the departments satisfied her. The west end claimed her--the rolling equipages, the drawing-rooms,
the dress, the vistas of evening lamps, the gay chatter in a hundred shining houses, the exquisite
dinners, the crush of the assemblies, the full flow of the tide of fashion and of enjoyment--what
is there so good in life? To be young, to be rich, to be pretty, to be loved, to be admired,
to compliment and be complimented--every Sunday at morning service, kneeling in a fluttering
row of the sweetly devout, whose fresh toilets made it good to be there, and who might humbly
hope to be forgiven for the things they have left undone, Margaret thanked Heaven for its gifts.

And it went well with Henderson meantime. Surely he was born under a lucky star--if it is good-luck
for a man to have absolute prosperity and the gratification of all his desires. One reason
why Hollowell sought his cooperation was a belief in this luck, and besides Henderson was,
he knew, more presentable, and had social access in quarters where influence was desirable,
although Hollowell was discovering that with most men delicacy in presenting anything that
is for their interest is thrown away. He found no difficulty in getting recruits for his little
dinners at Champolion's--dinners that were not always given in his name, and where he appeared
as a guest, though he footed the bills. Bungling grossness has disappeared from all really
able and large transactions, and genius is mainly exercised in the supply of motives for a
line of conduct. The public good is one of the motives that looks best in Washington.

Henderson and Hollowell got what they wanted in regard to the Southwest consolidation, and
got it in the most gentlemanly way. Nobody was bought, no one was offered a bribe. There were,
of course, fees paid for opinions and for professional services, and some able men induced
to take a prospective interest in what was demonstrably for the public good. But no vote was
given for a consideration--at least this was the report of an investigating committee later
on. Nothing, of course, goes through Congress of its own weight, except occasionally a resolution
of sympathy with the Coreans, and the calendar needs to be watched, and the good offices of
friends secured. Skillful wording of a clause, the right moment, and opportune recognition
do the business. The main thing is to create a favorable atmosphere and avoid discussion. When
the bill was passed, Hollowell did give a dinner on his own invitation, a dinner that was talked
of for its refinement as well as its cost. The chief topic of conversation was the development
of the Southwest and the extension of our trade relations with Mexico. The little scheme, hatched
in Henderson's New York office, in order to transfer certain already created values to the
pockets of himself and his friends, appeared to have a national importance. When Henderson
rose to propose the health of Jerry Hollowell, neither he nor the man he eulogized as a creator
of industries whose republican patriotism was not bound by State lines nor circumscribed by
sections was without a sense of the humor of the situation.

And yet in a certain way Mr. Hollowell was conscious that he merited the eulogy. He had come
to believe that the enterprises in which he was engaged, that absolutely gave him, it was believed,
an income of a million a year, were for the public good. Such vast operations lent him the
importance of a public man. If he was a victim of the confusion of mind which mistook his own
prosperity for the general benefit, he only shared a wide public opinion which regards the
accumulation of enormous fortunes in a few hands as an evidence of national wealth.

Margaret left Washington with regret. She had a desire to linger in the opening of the charming
spring there, for the little parks were brilliant with flower beds-tulips, hyacinths, crocuses,
violets--the magnolias and redbuds in their prodigal splendor attracted the eye a quarter of
a mile away, and the slender twigs of the trees began to be suffused with tender green. It
was the sentimental time of the year. But Congress had gone, and whatever might be the promise
of the season, Henderson had already gathered the fruits that had been forced in the hothouse
of the session. He was in high spirits.

"It has all been so delightful, dear!" said Margaret as they rode away in the train, and caught
their last sight of the dome. They were in Hollowell's private car, which the good-natured
old fellow had put at their disposal. And Margaret had a sense of how delightful and prosperous
this world is as seen from a private car.

"Yes," Henderson answered, thinking of various things; "it has been a successful winter. The
capital is really attractive. It occurred to me the other day that America has invented a new
kind of city, the apotheosis of the village--Washington."

They talked of the city, of the acquaintances of the winter, of Hollowell's thoughtfulness
in lending them his car, that their bridal trip, as he had said, might have a good finish.
Margaret's heart opened to the world. She thought of the friends at Brandon, she thought of
the poor old ladies she was accustomed to look after in the city, of the ragged-school that
she visited, of the hospital in which she was a manager, of the mission chapel. The next Sunday
would be Easter, and she thought of a hundred ways in which she could make it brighter for
so many of the unfortunates. Her heart was opened to the world, and looking across to Henderson,
who was deep in the morning paper, she said, with a wife's unblushing effrontery, "Dearest,
how handsome you are!"

The home life took itself up again easily and smoothly in Washington Square. Did there ever
come a moment of reflection as to the nature of this prosperity which was altogether so absorbing
and agreeable? If it came, did it give any doubts and raise any of the old questions that used
to be discussed at Brandon? Wasn't it the use that people made of money, after all, that was
the real test? She did not like Hollowell, but on acquaintance he was not the monster that
he had appeared to her in the newspapers. She was perplexed now and then by her husband's business,
but did it differ from that of other men she had known, except that it was on a larger scale?
And how much good could be done with money!

On Easter morning, when Margaret returned from early service, to which she had gone alone,
she found upon her dressing-table a note addressed to "My Wife," and in it a check for a large
sum to her order, and a card, on which was written, "For Margaret's Easter Charities." Flushed
with pleasure, she ran to meet her husband on the landing as he was descending to breakfast,
threw her arms about his neck, and, with tears in her eyes, cried, "Dearest, how good you are!"

It is such a good and prosperous generation.

XIV

Our lives are largely made up of the things we do not have. In May, the time of the apple blossoms--just
a year from the swift wooing of Margaret--Miss Forsythe received a letter from John Lyon. It
was in a mourning envelope. The Earl of Chisholm was dead, and John Lyon was Earl of Chisholm.
The information was briefly conveyed, but with an air of profound sorrow. The letter spoke
of the change that this loss brought to his own life, and the new duties laid upon him, which
would confine him more closely to England. It also contained congratulations--which circumstances
had delayed--upon Mrs. Henderson's marriage, and a simple wish for her happiness. The letter
was longer than it need have been for these purposes; it seemed to love to dwell upon the little
visit to Brandon and the circle of friends there, and it was pervaded by a tone, almost affectionate,
towards Miss Forsythe, which touched her very deeply. She said it was such a manly letter.

America, the earl said, interested him more and more. In all history, he wrote, there never
had been such an opportunity for studying the formation of society, for watching the working
out of political problems; the elements meeting were so new, and the conditions so original,
that historical precedents were of little service as guides. He acknowledged an almost irresistible
impulse to come back, and he announced his intention of another visit as soon as circumstances
permitted.

I had noticed this in English travelers of intelligence before. Crude as the country is, and
uninteresting according to certain established standards, it seems to have a "drawing" quality,
a certain unexplained fascination. Morgan says that it is the social unconventionality that
attracts, and that the American women are the loadstone. He declares. that when an Englishman
secures and carries home with him an American wife, his curiosity about the country is sated.
But this is generalizing on narrow premises.

There was certainly in Lyon's letter a longing to see the country again, but the impression
it made upon me when I read it--due partly to its tone towards Miss Forsythe, almost a family
tone--was that the earldom was an empty thing without the love of Margaret Debree. Life is
so brief at the best, and has so little in it when the one thing that the heart desires is
denied. That the earl should wish to come to America again without hope or expectation was,
however, quite human nature. If a man has found a diamond and lost it, he is likely to go again
and again and wander about the field where he found it, not perhaps in any defined hope of
finding another, but because there is a melancholy satisfaction in seeing the spot again. It
was some such feeling that impelled the earl to wish to see again Miss Forsythe, and perhaps
to talk of Margaret, but he certainly had no thought that there were two Margaret Debrees in
America.

To her aunt's letter conveying the intelligence of Mr. Lyon's loss, Margaret replied with a
civil message of condolence. The news had already reached the Eschelles, and Carmen, Margaret
said, had written to the new earl a most pious note, which contained no allusion to his change
of fortune, except an expression of sympathy with his now enlarged opportunity for carrying
on his philanthropic plans--a most unworldly note. "I used to think," she had said, when confiding
what she had done to Margaret, "that you would make a perfect missionary countess, but you
have done better, my dear, and taken up a much more difficult work among us fashionable sinners.
Do you know," she went on, "that I feel a great deal less worldly than I used to?"

Margaret wrote a most amusing account of this interview, and added that Carmen was really very
good-hearted, and not half as worldly-minded as she pretended to be; an opinion with which
Miss Forsythe did not at all agree. She had spent a fortnight with Margaret after Easter, and
she came back in a dubious frame of mind. Margaret's growing intimacy with Carmen was one of
the sources of her uneasiness. They appeared to be more and more companionable, although Margaret's
clear perception of character made her estimate of Carmen very nearly correct. But the fact
remained that she found her company interesting. Whether the girl tried to astonish the country
aunt, or whether she was so thoroughly a child of her day as to lack certain moral perceptions,
I do not know, but her candid conversation greatly shocked Miss Forsythe.

"Margaret," she said one day, in one of her apparent bursts of confidence, "seems to have had
such a different start in life from mine. Sometimes, Miss Forsythe, she puzzles me. I never
saw anybody so much in love as she is with Mr. Henderson; she doesn't simply love him, she
is in love with him. I don't wonder she is fond of him--any woman might be that--but, do you
know, she actually believes in him."

"Why shouldn't she believe in him?" exclaimed Miss Forsythe, in astonishment.

"Oh, of course, in a way," the girl went on. "I like Mr. Henderson--I like him very much--but
I don't believe in him. It isn't the way now to believe in anybody very much. We don't do it,
and I think we get along just as well--and better. Don't you think it's nicer not to have any
deceptions?"

Miss Forsythe was too much stunned to make any reply. It seemed to her that the bottom had
fallen out of society.

"Do you think Mr. Henderson believes in people?" the girl persisted.

"If he does not he isn't much of a man. If people don't believe in each other, society is going
to pieces. I am astonished at such a tone from a woman."

"Oh, it isn't any tone in me, my dear Miss Forsythe," Carmen continued, sweetly. "Society is
a great deal pleasanter when you are not anxious and don't expect too much."

Miss Forsythe told Margaret that she thought Miss Eschelle was a dangerous woman. Margaret
did not defend her, but she did not join, either, in condemning her; she appeared to have accepted
her as a part of her world. And there were other things that Margaret seemed to have accepted
without that vigorous protest which she used to raise at whatever crossed her conscience. To
her aunt she was never more affectionate, never more solicitous about her comfort and her pleasure,
and it was almost enough to see Margaret happy, radiant, expanding day by day in the prosperity
that was illimitable, only there was to her a note of unreality in all the whirl and hurry
of the busy life. She liked to escape to her room with a book, and be out of it all, and the
two weeks away from her country life seemed long to her. She couldn't reconcile Margaret's
love of the world, her tolerance of Carmen, and other men and women whose lives seemed to be
based on Carmen's philosophy, with her devotion to the church services, to the city missions,
and the dozens of charities that absorb so much of the time of the leaders of society.

"You are too young, dear, to be so good and devout," was Carmen's comment on the situation.

To Miss Forsythe's wonder, Margaret did not resent this impertinence, but only said that no
accumulation of years was likely to bring Carmen into either of these dangers. And the reply
was no more satisfactory to Miss Forsythe than the remark that provoked it.

That she had had a delightful visit, that Margaret was more lovely than ever, that Henderson
was a delightful host, was the report of Miss Forsythe when she returned to us. In a confidential
talk with my wife she confessed, however, that she couldn't tell whither Margaret was going.

One of the worries of modern life is the perplexity where to spend the summer. The restless
spirit of change affects those who dwell in the country, as well as those who live in the city.
No matter how charming the residence is, one can stay in it only a part of the year. He actually
needs a house in town, a villa by the sea, and a cottage in the hills. When these are secured--each
one an establishment more luxurious year by year--then the family is ready to travel about,
and is in a greater perplexity than before whether to spend the summer in Europe or in America,
the novelties of which are beginning to excite the imagination. This nomadism, which is nothing
less than society on wheels, cannot be satirized as a whim of fashion; it has a serious cause
in--the discovery of the disease called nervous prostration, which demands for its cure constant
change of scene, without any occupation. Henderson recognized it, but he said that personally
he had no time to indulge in it. His summer was to be a very busy one. It was impossible to
take Margaret with him on his sudden and tedious journeys from one end of the country to the
other, but she needed a change. It was therefore arranged that after a visit to Brandon she
should pass the warm months with the Arbusers in their summer home at Lenox, with a month--the
right month--in the Eschelle villa at Newport; and he hoped never to be long absent from one
place or the other.

Margaret came to Brandon at the beginning of June, just at the season when the region was at
its loveliest, and just when its society was making preparations to get away from it to the
sea, or the mountains, or to any place that was not home. I could never understand why a people
who have been grumbling about snow and frost for six months, and longing for genial weather,
should flee from it as soon as it comes. I had made the discovery, quite by chance--and it
was so novel that I might have taken out a patent on it--that if one has a comfortable home
in our northern latitude, he cannot do better than to stay in it when the hum of the mosquito
is heard in the land, and the mercury is racing up and down the scale between fifty and ninety.
This opinion, however, did not extend beyond our little neighborhood, and we may be said to
have had the summer to ourselves.

I fancied that the neighborhood had not changed, but the coming of Margaret showed me that
this was a delusion. No one can keep in the same place in life simply by standing still, and
the events of the past two years had wrought a subtle change in our quiet. Nothing had been
changed to the eye, yet something had been taken away, or something had been added, a door
had been opened into the world. Margaret had come home, yet I fancied it was not the home to
her that she had been thinking about. Had she changed?

She was more beautiful. She had the air--I should hesitate to call it that of the fine lady--of
assured position, something the manner of that greater world in which the possession of wealth
has supreme importance, but it was scarcely a change of manner so much as of ideas about life
and of the things valuable in it gradually showing itself. Her delight at being again with
her old friends was perfectly genuine, and she had never appeared more unselfish or more affectionate.
If there was a subtle difference, it might very well be in us, though I found it impossible
to conceive of her in her former role of teacher and simple maiden, with her heart in the little
concerns of our daily life. And why should she be expected to go back to that stage? Must we
not all live our lives? Miss Forsythe's solicitude about Margaret was mingled with a curious
deference, as to one who had a larger experience of life than her own. The girl of a year ago
was now the married woman, and was invested with something of the dignity that Miss Forsythe
in her pure imagination attached to that position. Without yielding any of her opinions, this
idea somehow changed her relations to Margaret; a little, I thought, to the amusement of Mrs.
Fletcher and the other ladies, to whom marriage took on a less mysterious aspect. It arose
doubtless from a renewed sense of the incompleteness of her single life, long as it had been,
and enriched as it was by observation.

In that June there were vexatious strikes in various parts of the country, formidable combinations
of laboring-men, demonstrations of trades-unions, and the exhibition of a spirit that sharply
called attention to the unequal distribution of wealth. The discontent was attributed in some
quarters to the exhibition of extreme luxury and reckless living by those who had been fortunate.
It was even said that the strikes, unreasonable and futile as they were, and most injurious
to those who indulged in them, were indirectly caused by the railway manipulation, in the attempt
not only to crush out competition, but to exact excessive revenues on fictitious values. Resistance
to this could be shown to be blind, and the strikers technically in the wrong, yet the impression
gained ground that there was something monstrously wrong in the way great fortunes were accumulated,
in total disregard of individual rights, and in a materialistic spirit that did not take into
account ordinary humanity. For it was not alone the laboring class that was discontented, but
all over the country those who lived upon small invested savings, widows and minors, found
their income imperiled by the trickery of rival operators and speculators in railways and securities,
who treated the little private accumulations as mere counters in the games they were playing.
The loss of dividends to them was poorly compensated by reflections upon the development of
the country, and the advantage to trade of great consolidations, which inured to the benefit
of half a dozen insolent men.

In discussing these things in our little parliament we were not altogether unprejudiced, it
must be confessed. For, to say nothing of interests of Mr. Morgan and my own, which seemed
in some danger of disappearing for the "public good," Mrs. Fletcher's little fortune was nearly
all invested in that sound "rock-bed" railway in the Southwest that Mr. Jerry Hollowell had
recently taken under his paternal care. She was assured, indeed, that dividends were only reserved
pending some sort of reorganization, which would ultimately be of great benefit to all the
parties concerned; but this was much like telling a hungry man that if he would possess his
appetite in patience, he would very likely have a splendid dinner next year. Women are not
constituted to understand this sort of reasoning. It is needless to say that in our general
talks on the situation these personalities were not referred to, for although Margaret was
silent, it was plain to see that she was uneasy.

Morgan liked to raise questions of casuistry, such as that whether money dishonestly come by
could be accepted for good purposes.

