The members of the council, with this solitary exception, being assembled, the queen rose to
address them.--"Noble Christians," she said, "my friends and brave defenders! You are no doubt
already aware of the important motive which summons you to our presence. Unless a speedy remedy
be applied, we are threatened with the loss of those territories for which we have so long
toiled, and which have been purchased with the dearest blood in Spain. Again the noble patriotic
fire which animates you must be called forth, and the redoubled strength of your arms be displayed
against the enemies of our faith and native land. Scarcely had you, by courage and perseverance,
reduced this last strong hold of Granada, and compelled the Moors to surrender the inheritance
of our forefathers, when the seeds of discontent were sown, and sprung into open rebellion.
Whatever may have been the complaints of the inhabitants of the Albaycin, it was by calm remonstrance,
and by applications to our throne of justice, that they ought to have sought redress; not by
the force of arms, in which they have had but too many occasions to acknowledge our superiority.--Our
officers of justice have been insulted, and one of them has been murdered in the discharge
of his duty. The prudent and active conduct of the Count de Tendilla succeeded in putting down
the first commotion, but the leaders of the outrage have sought, in the wild passes of the
Alpujarras, to conduct by stratagem a war which they are not able to sustain against us in
the field. Let us then hasten to chastise their insolence before the evil gain ground. Not
that I entertain any doubts of success, but for the purpose of saving the valuable lives which
such procrastination might endanger. Amongst the rebel chiefs, who appear to possess in the
greatest degree the confidence of their comrades, and most resolutely to defy our power, are
el Negro,[2] of Lanjaron, and el Feri de Benastepar. The former, blockaded in the Castle of
Lanjaron, will not long brave a siege; but the latter is a more formidable enemy, and being
well acquainted with the innermost passes of those wild mountains, will offer a greater resistance.
Against this man, therefore, our chief efforts must be directed."

She then took a banner, on which was splendidly emblazoned the arms of Castile and Arragon.--"To
thee, Don Alonso de Aguilar," she said, "do we intrust the chief command in this expedition,
and to thy care and keeping do we commit this precious gage, which thou must fix on the summit
of the Alpujarras."

Saying this, she delivered the standard to the veteran warrior. He bowed on receiving it, and
the fire of enthusiasm kindled in his dark eyes as he knelt, and kissed the hand of the donor;
then waving the banner on high, he exclaimed--"All that human efforts can achieve, will I do.
My Liege, from your hands Alonso de Aguilar receives this pledge of royal favor, and he will
not prove ungrateful for the noble distinction. Yes, I will punish these accursed infidels,
and this sacred standard shall not be separated from me till it streams in triumph on the summit
of the mountain. Noble warriors," he continued with a burst of exultation--"if this banner
be lost, search for it in the midst of slaughtered Moors--there you will find it, dyed in the
blood, but still in the grasp of Alonso de Aguilar."

As he uttered these words, he again raised the banner on high, and the surrounding chiefs sent
forth, simultaneously, a shout of approbation. Isabella then motioning with her hand to command
attention, again addressed the council.--"Listen further to our sovereign decree. From this
time let no one of our subjects hold communion or any intercourse whatever with the rebels.
The least infringement of this order shall be accounted treason, and the transgressor shall
be dealt with according to the law. Let an edict be proclaimed, that no one may plead ignorance
of its purport."

The chiefs now gradually withdrew; and Don Alonso having made his obeisance, was likewise about
to retire, when his royal mistress detained him.--"Stay, Aguilar. It grieves me much that the
marriage of thy daughter should be thus deferred, nay, perhaps set aside, by the unfortunate
adventure of her lover with Don Rodrigo de Cespedes. How is the wounded man?"

"Most gracious Queen"--replied Don Alonso, "I have received intelligence that he is even now
considered almost out of danger. The issue of a few days will determine, and then if the result
be favorable, I may safely welcome the return of Don Lope Gomez Arias."

"As good a knight as Spain can boast"--returned the queen--"and possessed of those accomplishments
which insure the favor of our sex. But I hear he has a failing, which, as a woman, I ought
rather to call a grievous fault. I am told he is of a very fickle character. Is not your Leonor
alarmed at the reported inconstancy of her future husband?"

"Is she not the child of Aguilar?"--proudly cried the warrior--"And where is the man that dared
wrong one of that name?"

"Nay," replied Isabella, in the most condescending tone and manner, "I do not mean that Leonor
will repent her choice when once made; she has attractions to fix the most volatile and inconstant
of men; and I sincerely hope that Gomez Arias will have discernment sufficient to appreciate them."

"Don Lope is not so fickle as some have wished your Highness to believe," observed Don Alonso.
"Moreover, I use no compulsion; they love each other well, and I only am concerned that their
marriage should not be celebrated before I march against el Feri de Benastepar. In the face
of danger I would then feel tranquil, from the consciousness that there was one to protect
my child, should aught happen to her father in this hazardous expedition."

"The daughter of Don Alonso de Aguilar"--replied the queen--"can never need one to supply her
father's place whilst Isabella lives. She shall remain constantly with me, and I shall be gratified
to manifest by my attention and kindness to Leonor, the high estimation in which I hold her
father. But how does it happen that you are not the Mantenedor of the lists in the games of
to-morrow?"

"One more capable than myself has already assumed the charge. Besides, I can feel little interested
with the display of a tournament, when we are shortly to meet the enemy in mortal encounter.
These sports suit well with gay young cavaliers, but not with veterans like myself. Those gallant
knights have admiring ladies to look upon their prowess, and reward their success. But my only
ambition is to sustain the laurels earned in bloody fray against the enemy of my country,--to
gain the approbation of that country, and the favor of its greatest ornament,--my noble sovereign."

The resolute and manly tone in which Don Alonso spoke, perfectly accorded with the frankness
and generosity of his character. He bent his knee as he pressed to his lips the extended hand
of his queen.

"And well hast thou deserved that favor," she exclaimed, "my best, and most faithful friend:
thy country will pay with gratitude thy long proved services. Go; prosper in thy brilliant career!"

The remainder of the day was passed in preparations for the games of the morrow. Gallant knights
were busily engaged in preparing their accoutrements, and examining their armour, whilst many
a fair hand was as anxiously occupied in ornamenting the devices, and arranging the colours
of the favored knight. The city was thronged with visitors, the inhabitants of the adjacent
country having been attracted by the fame of the reported games, insomuch that Granada could
not hold her numerous guests. For more accommodation, numerous temporary tents had been pitched
along the smiling plain of the Vega. The voices of vacant joy and revelry were heard on all
sides, and the warriors and irregular groups, moving along in all the recklessness of anticipated
pleasure, presented a gay and lively picture.

CHAPTER III.

    Cada uno dellos mientes tiene al so,
    Abrazan los escudos delant los corazones:
    Abaxan las lauzas abueltas con los pendones;
    Enclinaban las caras sobre los arzones:
    Batien los cavallos con los espolones,
    Tembrar quierie la tierra dod eran movedores.

                             Poema del Cid.

The morning arrived, and the entrances to the lists were thronged by the inhabitants of Granada
and their visitors; all anxious to witness a display which it was expected would surpass in
magnificence any thing of the kind they had ever seen. A large piece of ground, perfectly level
and free from impediment, had been appropriately chosen without the walls of the city, for
the exhibition of the games of strength, valour, and skill, and a temporary gallery had been
constructed, extending on either side to the extremity of the lists. At the end nearest the
city, was erected a temporary wooden fortress, painted in imitation of stone-work, curiously
fabricated, covered over with canvas, and capable of containing a number of men-at-arms. On
the front turret of this castle streamed a large banner, on which was emblazoned a red cross
decorated with gold, being the arms of the order of Calatrava, of which the Mantenedor[3] was
the grand master. Other smaller banners were placed around it, and they appertained to the
four knights, who had volunteered to support the Mantenedor, and who, in conjunction with him,
were bound to accept the challenge of all knights adventurers disposed to encounter them. On
each side of the castle were two tents, before which were placed the pennon and shield of the
knights to whom they belonged, and at the entrance stood a squire, ready to meet the demands
of all comers.

Directly facing the castle, at the other extremity of the lists, was pitched a large and magnificent
pavilion, ornamented with little pennons, and numberless armorial devices curiously interwoven
with gold and silver thread on green silk brocade. Before it were artificially grouped swords,
lances, shields, and every description of armour, emblematical of the intent to which the pavilion
was appropriated, it being set apart for the use of those knights who were willing to enter
the lists against the Mantenedor and his assistants. About the middle of the gallery on the
right of the castle, a platform had been erected for the accommodation of the queen and her
retinue. It was covered with scarlet cloth, and shaded by a rich canopy of purple brocade,
on the top of which were seen the royal and united arms of Arragon and Castile shining in burnished
gold. The whole of this platform was occupied by the maids of honour, and other principal ladies,
as well as the noblemen and gentlemen of the court. In front of the place occupied by the queen,
were stationed the umpires of the tournament, whose duty it was to decide the merits of the
candidates, and award the prizes. Other places on either side of the throne were allotted to
the various nobility and gentry of Granada, whilst the two extremities of this gallery and
the whole of the other were assigned to the public, without any claim to precedence, but that
of a priority of occupation.

And now the ponderous bells of the cathedral filled the air with their tolling; and immediately
the bands of martial instruments within the lists, struck up a glorious and enlivening strain,
in signal of the queen's approach.

At length she made her appearance, surrounded by a numerous suite, and heartily was she welcomed
by the multitude, whose joy at the sight of their beloved sovereign was equal to the anticipated
pleasure of the tournament.

Isabella was sumptuously attired in a rich dress of crimson velvet, ornamented with pearls.
A delicate and costly scarf, of the finest lace, was attached to the back part of her head,
and covered with its graceful folds her beautiful neck and shoulders. On this splendid scarf
were wrought in gold thread, lions and castles, and other insignia of the arms of Spain. The
queen wore likewise the crosses of the orders of Santiago and Calatrava, richly studded with
diamonds and precious gems of immense value.

The lists now offered a most dazzling and noble spectacle. On one side was displayed all the
splendour of the court, and the sparkling jewellery, the costly attire, and the waving plumes
indicated the spot where the rank and beauty of Spain was assembled in all its glory and magnificence.
Indeed towards this part of the lists the attention was more particularly directed, as in all
courteous exhibitions of martial prowess, the interest is chiefly centered in those objects,
to win whose smile lances are broken and helmets shivered.--Nor was the feeling of enthusiasm
on beholding this scene lessened by the appearance of the opposite gallery, which, though more
humble, nevertheless contributed, by the variety and gaiety of their costume, together with
the cheerful animation expressed in their countenances, to the general effect of the picture.
Then the proud display of all the panoplies of the court; the rich waving plumage of the crests;
the lustre of the burnished shields and polished armour, together with the neighing of the
spirited charger that caracolled the lists, and the warlike strains that at intervals floated
on the air, powerfully tended to strike the imagination and inspire the heart to deeds of chivalry
and arms.

A flourish of trumpets and clarions now indicated that the tournament was about to commence.
In a few moments therefore the lists were cleared, with the exception of the heralds, who,
gorgeously equipped in suits of crimson and gold, and attended by trumpeters, advanced to the
four corners of the lists to proclaim the challenge. It was couched in the formula of chivalric
language, which it would be superfluous here to transcribe. The meaning, however, was, that
the Mantenedor and his supporters, Don Manuel Ponce de Leon, the Alcayde de los Donceles, Count
Cifuentes, and Don Antonio de Leyva, invited all knights adventurers to break lances, if they
were hardy enough to dispute their right to the lists. As soon as the challenge had been pronounced,
the heralds retired to their posts; when the trumpets sounded again, the gates of the castle
were thrown open, and the five challengers came forward.

Nothing could surpass the richness of their harness, the splendour of their armour, and the
gallantry of their bearing. The grand master was attired in a costly suit of steel, the corslet
of which was entirely burnished with silver, and the ornaments chased with the same precious
metal. Over this he wore a short mantle of white velvet, which was the colour he had adopted.
On his shield, upon a field argent, was portrayed the red cross of Calatrava, which he also
bore on his breast, and which was surrounded with the following device--"Por esta y por mi Rey."[4]

Don Manuel Ponce de Leon next fixed the attention of the spectators; his armour was the same
as the Mantenedor's, excepting that the ropa[5] which hung from his shoulder was crimson. On
his ample buckler were emblazoned the bars of the arms of Arragon, granted to his warlike ancestors
by the kings of that country; and likewise quartered thereon, was a lion rampant, in field
argent, a device which, tradition says, was adopted by the famous Trojan, Hector, from whom
the old French chroniclers assert the Ponces de Leon to be descended. Beneath the arms was
legible in red letters the motto--"Soy como mi nombre."[6]

The armour of the other knights was made to correspond with that of the Mantenedor, the only
distinguishing mark being the colour of the ropas, and the different device which each bore
upon his shield, either as indicative of his feelings, or from the armorial bearings of his
family. The colour of the spirited chargers of these challengers was snow white. Nothing could
exceed the beauty of their proportions and the splendour of their trappings. They beat the
ground with short quick tramp, and shook the white foam from their mouths, as they fretted
at the discipline by which their fiery ardour was restrained. They were caparisoned with long
housings of costly brocade, and ornamented with gold or silver, according to the colour of
the rider's dress, and their manes and tails were decorated with knots of gay ribbons.

The five challengers now advanced at a stately pace, till they arrived before the queen, when,
with a graceful and simultaneous motion, they made their horses kneel down; and after saluting
the courtly retinue with their lances, they caracolled round the lists, as if to reconnoitre
their dominions. At last, after various martial evolutions, in which they were accompanied
by the animating strains of the music, they proceeded to the middle of the lists--there they
halted, and, throwing down their gauntlets, retreated to the castle in the same order in which
they had advanced. The trumpets then sounded, and immediately there was a rush of gallant knights,
who pricked into the lists, all eager to take up these tokens of defiance. So upon retiring,
five of their number, who had succeeded in securing the gage, came forward from the pavilion.
The champions wore fine Spanish shirts of mail, with a polished breast-plate inlaid with gold,
and their pliant barbs of raven black, seemed to have been chosen to contrast with those of
the challengers. The helmets of the knights were almost hidden in a shadowing plumage of white
and red feathers. The chief of this gallant band declined giving his name, though he was known
to his four companions, who pledged themselves for him. However, from the superior courage
and address which the strange knight afterwards displayed, it was generally believed that he
could be no other than the renowned Gonzalo de Cordova, who, from a pique in a momentary fit
of passion, had withdrawn from court, and lost the friendship of the queen. The other four
knights were easily distinguished by their devices and colours. Amongst them, the most conspicuous,
appeared the young Don Pedro, son of Don Alonso de Aguilar. He carried himself with a bearing
far superior to his years, and inspired a general interest, both on his own account and for
that of his illustrious sire. On his shield he bore a golden eagle, emblematical of his name,
flying towards heaven, and carrying in his claws a bleeding Moor. Underneath was the motto--

    "Le subiré hasta el cielo,
    Porque dé mayor caida."[7]

This shield belonged to Alonso de Aguilar himself, who was no less pleased than surprised that
his son should have chosen such a device for the occasion. But every one applauded the young
Don Pedro for that unconquerable hatred towards the enemies of his country, which he had inherited
from his ancestors, and which engrossed their thoughts even in pastimes and games. By the side
of Don Pedro, rode Garcilaso de la Vega, who was proud to bear the brazen shield which he had
inherited from his father, and upon which was displayed the bleeding head of a Moor, hanging
on a black charger's tail, and round which were the words--"Ave Maria"--a device which the
Garcilasos wore in commemoration of the famous single combat which one of their house had sustained
against the fierce Moor Audala, who, with impious insolence, had interwoven the sacred salutation
to the virgin, in token of derision, in his horse's tail. The two other champions were the
Count de Ureña and young Sayavedra, both equally renowned in that age of chivalry, brave and
gallant knights.

They now proceeded to the castle, and after the ceremony of striking twice the gong which was
placed beside it, and selecting their tents, they again retreated. The five challengers next
presented themselves, and a desperate encounter was anticipated. Indeed ten more valiant knights
were scarcely to be found in all Spain, and their acknowledged skill promised a display of
more than usual interest for the beholders.

At the signal given, they rushed impetuously forward, yet such was their perfection in horsemanship,
and so well trained and disciplined were their chargers, that they all arrived at the middle
of the lists at the same time, meeting in a shock, the abrupt and fearful clash of which seemed
as if it had been the effect of a single but awful concussion. The lances were splintered to
the very hilts, but the knights resumed their places amidst the loud applause of the multitude.
Again they darted with the velocity of the wind, and again they met with the same precision,
but not with the same success; for in this encounter the challengers were considered the victors--the
two chiefs alone having sustained no injury--their lances broke as before, but they remained
firm and erect in their saddle. Not so with the rest--for young Don Pedro was not able to withstand
the superior force of Ponce de Leon's more manly age. Garcilaso was unhorsed by Don Antonio
de Leyva, and the two others sustained great inconvenience from the Alcayde and Count Cifuentes.

The shouts of the spectators, and the flourish of instruments, proclaimed the victory of the
Mantenedor and his supporters, who retired to the castle with their good fortune, ready to
meet the demands of all other adventurers. The chief of the vanquished party who had so handsomely
maintained his ground against the Maestre, now signified his intention of encountering that
champion singly; but in this he was opposed by the marshals of the games, who declared that
after the demand of his challenge had been acceded to, he could not, according to the rules,
encounter again the same knight on that day. The matter was referred to the judges, who decided
against the stranger chief, and he was accordingly obliged to desist from his purpose.

Great was the joy of the Mantenedor and his associates, who, having vanquished the most formidable
knights, proudly imagined that all who might now appear, would afford an easy victory. Indeed
this opinion seemed generally to prevail, as for some time no one shewed himself in the lists
to dispute their supremacy.

Don Pedro, vexed at heart, now mounted a strong charger--rode up to the castle, and challenged
the Mantenedor himself. Don Alonso de Aguilar saw the noble daring of his son at once with
pleasure and dismay; for although he was overjoyed to perceive him possessed of such undaunted
courage, he yet trembled for the consequences of his temerity.

The gong sounded twice--the Maestre appeared, and was struck at the presumption of the young
adventurer.--They took their places--the trumpets gave the signal--forward the champions started,
and at the first meeting displayed such an equality that the whole place rung with acclamations.
Indeed this was the most important encounter, and every one waited its issue in breathless
expectation--the ladies in particular, always interested where youth dares against manhood,
waved their kerchiefs and scarfs to animate the young knight, whose heart in sooth needed no
such stimulus. In the second encounter, however, he was not equally fortunate; for the Mantenedor,
jealous of his fame, now risked against a youth, stood more on his guard, and summoned all
his might and skill to his assistance.--Don Pedro was unable to withstand the shock; the lance
flew unharmed from his grasp, and he was compelled to leave the field honorably, but still
in possession of the challengers.

The castle now sent forth a blast of clarions, in sign of triumph and defiance, whilst at the
pavilion, no knight evinced any desire of renewing the engagement. In this state of suspense,
some time elapsed, and the heralds, according to form, proceeded to summon the knights adventurers,
but no one appeared--again ten minutes elapsed, and a second summons was pronounced, but again
it met with no answer. The triumph of the Mantenedor now seemed certain, and the heralds were
about to utter the third and last proclamation, when, lo! a knight was seen riding at full
speed towards the lists, and, after thundering at the barrier for admittance, without further
ceremony, was directing his course to the castle, when his career was arrested by the marshals,
as no one could pretend to enter the lists against the challengers, without previously delivering
his name and titles, or at least presenting a known friend to vouch for his being a true and
loyal knight.

The incognito knight was accordingly obliged to give way; but making a sign to the herald not
to proceed to the third summons, he rode up to Don Pedro and, taking him aside, conferred with
him in secret. Young Aguilar immediately advanced with visible surprise and pleasure, and pledged
himself for his new companion. This circumstance, no less than the general appearance of the
champion in question, commanded universal interest and attention. He was completely accoutred
in a blue steel armour, over which he wore a short mantle of black velvet, sumptuously adorned
with gold. On his burnished helmet he wore a profusion of white and sable feathers, and on
his lance streamed a pennon of the same colours. His breast was covered with a ponderous shield,
bearing no device, but the solitary motto--"Conocelle por sus fechos."[8] The incognito knight
brought with him neither squire nor page, and there was an air of mystery about his person
that tended considerably to heighten the interest which his sudden appearance had already excited.

He now rushed impetuously towards the castle, when the charger seemed to be under no command,
and the knight was apparently in peril of being dashed to pieces;--a simultaneous cry of terror
burst from the surrounding multitude, when the incognito knight on the point of being hurled
against the wall of the castle, and at the distance of scarcely two feet, suddenly reined up,
and both he and his charger appeared rooted to the ground. A burst of admiration now superseded
the terror which his precipitous career had occasioned, and every one was lost in conjectures
relating to the incognito knight. The noble arrogance of the motto--"Conocelle por sus fechos,"
made them better appreciate the feat he had just performed. He advanced to the gong, and sounded
a redoubled and protracted peal, and flourishing his lance in the face of the castle and tents,
indicated his willingness to do battle with all. This daring act excited a second burst of
applause, and the astonished challengers appeared at the castle in a mood of mixed perplexity
and indignant pride. The incognito knight, however, vaulted on his charger, and then retreated
to await the pleasure of the Mantenedor; who, according to rank, was the first to engage. The
flourish of trumpets acted as a signal, and the champions rushed against each other at full
speed; the shock was tremendous--the lances were shivered, and the powerful chargers staggered
with the violent concussion. The champions taking new lances, prepared for a second encounter,
when the horse of the Mantenedor, either from sudden fright or other cause, swerved in the
middle of its career, and its master, being obliged to deviate from his intended aim, would
have offered an easy victory to his antagonist. The knight, however, generously refused to
take advantage of this accident, and, making a demi-volte, returned to await the Mantenedor's
leisure. But the latter, overcome by the courteous behaviour of his adversary, declined a second
encounter, and retired to the castle.

Don Manuel Ponce de Leon next advanced, happy in the opportunity which chance offered him of
gathering the laurels, which his principal had forgone. This knight, in the opinion of many,
was the most formidable of the five challengers--the repeated single combats in which he had
engaged against the Moors, and other feats of arms, having won for him very great reputation.
He came therefore into the lists, as if conscious of his powers, and fully confident of success.
In the first shock, there was a slight advantage on his part, having succeeded in striking
his lance so forcibly, and directly on the breast-plate of his adversary, that the incognito
knight was observed somewhat to stagger; while Don Manuel remained immoveable as a rock--however,
as no decided advantage could be claimed, the two champions prepared to renew the engagement.
Again the swift-footed steeds fly over the lists, and again the combatants meet with a terrific
clash. It proved unfortunate for Ponce de Leon, who was dealt such a severe blow, that had
it not been for the extreme goodness of his armour, the queen would have lost one of her most
gallant warriors. As it was, the saddle girths broke, and the horse, unable to withstand the
shock, staggered backward--tottered, and rolled over, throwing his rider, with a tremendous
fall, into the middle of the lists. Ponce de Leon with difficulty arose, having received a
sore contusion, and was assisted back to the castle, from whence the Alcayde de los Donceles
soon issued forth, intent upon revenging the disgrace of his companion. He offered, however,
a faint resistance; for the incognito knight, at every encounter, appeared to acquire new strength.
The opposition afforded by Count de Cifuentes was still weaker; the unfortunate knight being
fairly unhorsed in such a manner, that he seemed for a moment to be carried on the point of
his antagonist's lance to the ground. The shouts of the spectators, and the peal of instruments
redoubled at every new proof of strength and skill thus manifested, and the triumph of the
incognito knight was hailed as certain. He had now only to meet the youngest; and, to the opinion
of all, the least renowned of the challengers. Young Don Antonio de Leyva, however, by the
martial and undaunted manner in which he came forward, showed that he was in no ways intimidated
by the repeated and extraordinary good fortune of the doughty champion.

The trumpets sounded--the lances are couched--the horses started--the silence is intense--when,
with one fearful resounding clash, the knights meet--the charm is broken, and all is converted
into an uproar of wonder and delight.--The champions, though so unequal in all appearances,
now proved to be fairly matched--both lances descended from the air in splinters, and the tremendous
shock which the combatants had sustained, appeared to produce no other effect than to check
their steeds in their impetuous course. The knights soon recovered and regained their stations.--Again
the signal is heard--and again they speed with the swiftness of the arrow--the lances break,
and both the horses recede with the violent shock.--Surprise and delight agitate the bosom
of the spectators.--Hope inspires the drooping spirits of the Mantenedor and those of the castle.--Disappointment
and vexation rage in the heart of the incognito knight. He made a movement of impatient anger,
as he grasped firmly the lance which was now presented to him, and poised it as if to ascertain
its consistency; then, making a circuit with his steed, he appeared resolved to put a termination
to the hopes of his adversary in the present encounter.--With a desperate start he rushed headlong
against his opponent, who, aware of the furious attack he was about to sustain, collected all
his might to meet it with a suitable resistance.--The incognito knight inclined himself more
forward on his horse, and turned his aim full at the breast of his antagonist, while Don Antonio,
who perceived his intention, resolved to direct his lance towards his adversary's head, which,
though a difficult manoeuvre, would, if successful, insure the advantage.--The incognito knight,
however, broke the tendency of the blow by suddenly inclining his head forward, while the anger
that boiled within his bosom, so powerfully seconded his efforts, that the gallant Don Antonio
fell, bearing, however, his adversary backwards on his seat, and carrying away, on the point
of his lance, the plumage that adorned his casque.

The victory was now completed, and the whole place resounded with shouts of admiration. The
incognito knight having thus vanquished the champions, for some time gallantly paraded the
lists, making his obedient and tutored steed perform several graceful evolutions. Then suddenly
advancing before the throne of the queen, he lowered the point of his lance and made his charger
to kneel. Passing onwards to Leonor de Aguilar, he again made the graceful salute, whilst a
shower of many-colored ribbons, white and highly-scented gloves, flowers, and other favors,
fell profusely from fair hands--a due tribute to bravery and skill. Having performed this mark
of courtesy, without waiting to receive the guerdon he had so well merited, he applied spurs
to his horse and was soon lost to the sight of the delighted and admiring multitude.

The incognito knight became the subject of general speculation--he had overcome five champions
to whom the court of Isabella could afford no equals--only one man perhaps might be capable
of such valorous achievements, but he was now an exile whom the law pursued, and whose appearance
in the lists would be attended with danger. Still the extraordinary prowess of the knight,
and the circumstance of Don Pedro coming forward to answer for him when he entered the lists,
left no room to doubt that he was that illustrious exile. Indeed the significant smile which
the queen directed to Alonso de Aguilar, when the champion saluted his daughter, and the blush
that mantled on the cheek of that lady implied a perfect recognition of her lover.

His absence from the lists gave the judges an opportunity of awarding the principal prize to
Don Antonio de Leyva, by whom, according to their own, as well as the general opinion, it was
more justly merited. The different bands now struck up a martial air; the queen departed with
her numerous and splendid train, and every one retired from the lists, perfectly satisfied
with the sports of the day, to spend the remainder of it in feasting and discussing the various
merits of the knights who had afforded them so much pleasure.

CHAPTER IV.

    Poi la Vittoria da quel canto stia,
    Che vorra la divina providenza:
    Il cavalier non havrà colpa alcuna,
    Ma il tutto impulterassi à la fortuna.

                              Ariosto.

The following morning shone equally bright as the preceding, and the expectations of the public
were equally sanguine. The same pomp and ceremony presided in the court; the same precision
and gallant deportment was observable in the knights, the heralds, and all other persons connected
with the sports.

As these, however, as far as concerned the tournament, were but a repetition of the antecedent
day, and more to be enjoyed by being an active witness than a passive reader of them, we will
not dwell on the subject further than to observe, that those of the castle sustained the challenge
most gallantly. Although many were the fresh arrivals of adventurers who fearlessly advanced
to engage the Mantenedor and his comrades, none were sufficiently accomplished to bear away
the palm. Indeed, the incognito knight, the most redoubtable of all the combatants, either
from fear of discovery, or from some secret injunction, had abstained from making a second
appearance in the lists.

The signal was now given, and the heralds proclaimed that the games of valour and strength
were ended, and those of skill about to commence.

An interval of two hours was employed in clearing the lists, and preparing the ground for the
juego de la sortija,[9] which was peculiarly gratifying to the queen. This intermediate time
was devoted by the assembled and motley crowd, to the rational, and provident purpose of a
substantial repast.

A tall and slight pine tree, beautifully decorated with ribbons, was placed in the ground,
and a gold ring of proportion suitable to the occasion, suspended on one of the projecting
branches, under which the candidates were to pass at full career. The queen herself resolved
to reward the victor with her own royal hand. Her portrait, superbly set in sparkling jewellery,
and hanging on a ponderous gold chain of curious workmanship, was suspended by her side--a
meet reward for the successful competitor. The nature of the guerdon, the quality of the bestower,
and the circumstance that there was but one prize to be obtained, greatly stimulated the emulation
of every knight to deserve an honor the more desirable from its admitting of no participation.

Chirimias, dulzainas,[10] and other musical instruments which are now grown obsolete, but which
in those days were in high request, now filled the air with harmony, while the attention of
the gay and motley concourse was arrested by the sudden arrival of heralds on horseback, gorgeously
apparelled, and preceded by black slaves playing on the cymbals. These paraded the lists for
a short time, and then retiring to their posts, gave way to beautiful pages, mounted on elegant
palfreys, and attired in costly silken dresses of light blue, bedizened with ribbons, and bearing
a turban of crimson velvet with white feathers. These pages carried before them the light and
slender lances appropriated for the games, and having deposited them near the queen, they retired
and took their stations opposite to the troop of heralds and black musicians.

The attention of the public was then simultaneously attracted to the four corners of the lists,
from whence four quadrilles of equestrians proceeded, all vieing with each other in the richness
of their dresses, the splendor of ornaments, and the gaiety of their bearing. These quadrilles
were distinguished by the different colours which they wore, and out of each were selected
three champions to dispute the prize. At the signal given, they started severally according
to the order of precedence, which had been obtained by casting lots, and in the first course
seven candidates passed their lances clearly through the ring, carrying it along in their headlong
career.

