The women were never suffered to come on board. They appeared modest in the presence of strangers.
They never move from a sitting posture, or rather a squat, with their knees close together,
reaching to their chin, their feet in contact, and touching the lower part of the body. They
are extremely ugly. Their hands and feet were small and well shaped; and, from appearance,
they are not accustomed to do any hard work. They appear very fond and seem careful of their
young children, though on several occasions they offered them for sale for a trifle. They have
their faces smutted all over, and it was thought, from the hideous appearance of the females,
produced in part by their being painted and smutted, that they had been disfigured by the men
previous to coming alongside. It was remarked, that when one of them saw herself in a looking-glass,
she burst into tears, as Jack thought, from pure mortification.

Before they left the ship, the greater part of them were dressed in old clothes, that had been
given to them by the officers and men, who all shewed themselves extremely anxious "to make
them comfortable," This gave rise to much merriment, as Jack was not disposed to allow any
difficulties to interfere in the fitting. If the jackets proved too tight across the shoulders,
which they invariably were, a slit down the back effectually remedied the defect. If a pair
of trousers was found too small around the waist, the knife was again resorted to; and in some
cases a fit was made by severing the legs. The most difficult fit, and the one which produced
the most merriment, was that of a woman, to whom an old coat was given. This, she concluded
belonged to her nether limbs, and no signs, hints, or shouts, could correct her mistake. Her
feet were thrust through the sleeves, and, after hard squeezing, she succeeded in drawing them
on. With the skirts brought up in front, she took her seat in the canoe with great satisfaction,
amid a roar of laughter from all who saw her.

CHILIAN MODE OF CAPTURING WILD HORSES.

A party of four or five horsemen, with about twenty dogs, were seen formed in an extended crescent,
driving the wild horses towards the river with shouts. All were armed with the lasso, which
was swinging over their heads, to be in readiness to entrap the first that attempted to break
through the gradually contracting segment; the dogs serving with the riders to head the horses
in. They continued to advance, when suddenly a horse with furious speed broke the line, passing
near one of the horsemen, and for a moment it was thought he had escaped; the next he was jerked
round with a force that seemed sufficient to have broken his neck, the horseman having, the
moment the lasso was thrown, turned round and braced himself for the shock. The captured horse
now began to rear and plunge furiously to effect his escape. After becoming somewhat worn out,
he was suffered to run, and again suddenly checked. This was repeated several times, when another
plan was adopted. The dogs were set on him, and off he went at full run, in the direction of
another horseman, who threw his lasso to entangle his legs and precipitate him to the ground.
The dogs again roused him, when he again started, and was in like manner brought to a stand.
After several trials he became completely exhausted and subdued, when he stood perfectly still,
and allowed his captors to lay hands upon him. The shouts of the men, the barking of the dogs,
and the scampering of the horses, made the whole scene extremely exciting.

FIGHT BETWEEN A WHALE AND A KILLER.

