"Who is that woman with a book in her hand?" inquired the visiting Commissioner, some months
afterwards, of the governor of the workhouse. The governor could only say she was a single
woman of the name of Smith, who had no use of her right hand. As to who she was, he could tell
no more than this; but his wife had sometimes mentioned her as a different sort of person from
those they generally saw there. She could not only read, but she read very well: and she read
a great deal aloud to the old people, and in the infirmary. She talked unlike the rest, too.
She said little; but her language was good, and always correct. She could not do much on account
of her infirmity: but she was always willing to do what could be done with one hand; and she
must have been very handy when she had the use of both.

"I should have thought her eyes had been too weak for much reading," observed the Commissioner.
"Has the medical officer attended to her?"

The governor called his wife: and the wife called a pauper woman who was told the question.
This woman said that it was not exactly a case for the doctor. Nobody that shed so many tears
could have good eyes. Ah! the governor might be surprised; because Smith seemed so brisk in
the daytime, and cheered the old people so much. But she made up for it at night. Many and
many a time she cried the night through.

"How do you know?" asked the Commissioner.

"I sleep in the next bed, sir. I can't say she disturbs any body; for she is very quiet. But
if any thing keeps me awake I hear her sobbing. And you need but feel her pillow in the morning.
It is wet almost through."

"And does that happen often?"

"Yes, sir. Many a time when she has turned her back,--gone into the infirmary, or been reading
to the old people,--I have got her pillow and dried it. And I have seen her do it herself,
with a smile on her face all the time."

The Commissioner walked away. Before he left the place, the woman Smith was beckoned out by
the governor. She went with a beating heart, with some wild idea in her head that the Morells
had sent, that some friends had turned up. While still in the passage, however, she said to
herself that she might as well look to see her parents risen from the dead.

The Commissioner had, indeed, nothing to tell. He wanted to ask. He did ask, as much as his
delicacy would allow. But he learned nothing; except, indeed, what he ought to have considered
the most important thing, the state of her mind about being there. About that, she was frank
enough. She said over again to him what she had said to herself, about this being the right
place for one in her circumstances. She considered that it would be an abuse of private charity
for her to be maintained in idleness at an expense which might set forward in life some person
in a less hopeless position.

"You speak cheerfully, as if you were in earnest," said the Commissioner.

"Of course, I am in earnest," she replied.

And cheerful she remained throughout the conversation. Only once the Commissioner saw her eyes
filled and a quiver on her lips. He did not know it; but he had unconsciously called her "Madam."

Would she prefer the children's department of the House? There was no doubt that she could
teach them much. Would she change her quarters? No. She was too old now for that. She should
not be a good companion now for children; and they would be too much for her. Unless she was
wanted--

By no means. She should be where she preferred to be.

She preferred to be where she was. The Commissioner's lady soon after dropped in, and managed
to engage Smith in conversation. But there was no result; because Smith did not choose that
there should be. Perhaps she was more in the infirmary; and had oftener a warm seat by the
fire, and was spoken to with more deference. But this might be solely owing to the way she
made with the people by her own acts and manners. The invalids and the infirm grew so fond
of her that they poured out to her all their complaints. She was favored with the knowledge
of every painful sensation as it passed, and every uneasy thought as it arose.

"I never thought to die in such a place as this," groaned old Johnny Jacks.

"I wonder at that," said his old wife; "for you never took any care to provide yourself a better--to
say nothing of me." And she went on to tell how Johnny had idled and drank his life away, and
brought her here at last. Much of Johnny's idling and drinking having been connected with electioneering
in an abominably venal city, he was a great talker on politics, and the state was made responsible
for all his troubles. He said it was a shame that any body should die in a workhouse; he appealed
to his neighbor Smith, who was warming his broth, whether it was not so?

"Which is best?" she answered; "being here, or on a common, or the sea-sands? Because," she
added, "there was a time when old people like us were left to die wherever they fell. There
are countries now where old people die so. I should not like that."

"You don't mean to say that you or any one likes being here?"

"Oh, no; I don't mean to say that. But things are better than they were once: and they may
be better again."

"I shall not live to see that," groaned Johnny.

"No; nor I. But it is something to think of."

"D---- it," said Johnny, "I am not the better for any good that does not happen to me, nor
to any body I know."

"Are not you?" said neighbor Smith. "Well, now, I am."

And so she was to the end. She died in that infirmary, and not very long after. When the Morells'
letter came, it was plain that they had enough to do to take care of themselves. So she did
not let them know,--in her reply, written by the hands of the schoolmaster,--where she was.
The letter was so cheerful that they are probably far from suspecting, at this moment, how
she died and was buried. As "from the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh," there was
so much in her letter as rather surprised them about her hope and expectation that the time
would come when hearty work in the vigorous season of life should secure its easy close; and
when a greater variety of employment should be opened to women. There was more of this kind
of speculation and less news and detail of facts than they would have liked. But it was a household
event to have a letter from Miss Smith; and the very little children, forgetting the wide sea
they had passed, began shouting for Miss Smith to come to them just (as it happened) when her
ear was closing to every human voice.

ON THE ATTEMPTS TO DISCOVER THE NORTHWEST PASSAGE.

There are some peculiarities of style in the following performance, which is by no means devoid
of eloquence, and which derives a certain interest from the efforts now being made to discover
the fate of Sir John Franklin. The author is GEORGE STOVIN VENABLES, LL. D., of Jesus College,
Cambridge.

THE NORTHWEST PASSAGE.

        COLERIDGE. Rime of the Ancient Mariner.

The secret wonders of the gloomy North bid proud defiance, in their solitude, to man's triumphant
daring. Who shall pierce the ancient prison-house where Nature's might, in mightier chains
of adamantine frost, lies fettered, since Creation? Who shall live where promontories huge,
of pilèd ice, like monstrous fragments of primeval worlds tossed on the surge of Chaos, over
the waves rear their triumphant heads, and laugh to scorn the undreaded kinghood of the lordly
sea? The gale of spring, breathing sweet balm over the western waters, called forth that gifted
old adventurer[10] to seek the perfumes of spice-laden winds, far in the Indian Isles. Yea,
there is power in Nature's solemn music. All have heard the sighs of Winter in the middle air,
and seen the skirts of his cloud-woven robe lingering upon the misty mountain-top: but years
rolled on, ere man might understand the mystic invitation of that call to seek the Monarch
in his Arctic home.

At length that call is answered. Daringly yon gallant ship, towards the Polar Star, walks the
untrodden pathways of old Ocean, leaving the haunts of man. Even now, the bounds are passed
where silently the Boreal Morn[11] folds and unfolds, in swiftest interchange, her silver robe
of alternating light over the midnight Heaven. There is a change in every sight and sound.
White glaciers clash on the tormented waves, in fierce career waving eternally, and hoary whales,
with musical din[12] booming along the deep, breathe forth in giant chorus, wondrously, the
welcome of the Spirit of the North.

Joy to the brave! That old phantasmal veil which checked the view of dim antiquity, shrinks
from their eagle glance, while fabled hills and regions of impenetrable ice fade in the blue
expanse of mighty bays[13]--now spread the bosom of the expectant sail unto the Eastern breeze,
and while the prow furrows the yielding waters, image forth high dreams of lofty hope--the
joyous bound of billows gushing between parted shores, where Asia's rocky brow for ever frowns
on the opposing continent. And, borne on spirit-plumed wings, let fancy soar far from that
sunless clime, to the warm South, where soft skies slumber through the cloudless noon, o'er
the gold palaces of fair Cathay.

Why pause ye in mid ocean? Still the sail swells to the voiceful breeze; the high mast bends
with hideous creak, and every separate rib in the huge fabric quivers. Yet the ship on the
unmoved waters motionless struggles, as one, who in a feverish dream nervelessly fleeing o'er
a haunted waste, strives horribly to shun some fiendish shape, with straining sinews, and convulsive
gasp, and faint limbs, magic-stricken. There is rest, dismal and dreary, on the silent sea:
most dismal quiet: for the viewless might of the keen frost-wind[14] crisps the curling waves,
binding their motion with a clankless chain along the far horizon. Fruitlessly the imprisoned
vessel writhes, until the gale, lulled in the embrace of evening, leaves its prey, to share
the torpor of the lifeless waste, till earth awaken from her half-year's sleep.

Yet, in those daring hearts, the cheerless voice of boding Fear or dull Despondency can find
no answering tone, whether the storm, round the snow-rampart[15] howling, interweaves his solemn
moans with the rejoicing shouts of the glad theatre,[16] or simple strains of homely music
leave that warm recess--vibrating far into the tremulous air. Here, even here are pleasures;
those stray[17] forms of joy, which Nature spreads throughout the world, that he who seeks
may find them. When the Sun, uprising from his long and gloomy trance, beams through the clearer
air, how beautiful, in some obscurest dell[18] of that lone land, led by the music of an unseen
river to see fair flowers, with light-awakened buds, salute the spring tide. Happily, they
smile in the midst of nakedness, like sweet memories of laughing infancy, beaming around the
desolation of an aged heart.

Oh, that the might of Man's majestic will were self-sufficing! that the meaner chains which
bind him to this dark, material world, before the lightning glance of Enterprise might fade,
as those Philistian bonds, that fell from him of Zorah. Back--in sorrow back--the ocean-wanderers
turn the unwilling prow; for Nature may not yield, and all is lost, save gloomy thoughts of
unrequited toil in the storm-beaten deep; and phantasies of gorgeous dreams, for ever desolate;
and hopes, which were, and will not be again.

Yet if the race of Man, as some have deemed[19], form but one mighty Being, who doth live,
yea with intenser life, while kingly Death benumbs each separate atom with the touch of his
pale sceptre--one unchanging ocean of everchanging waves--one deathless heaven of clouds, which
to their graves roll ceaselessly: if it be so, not vainly have long years sent forth their
heralds on the trackless deep, where high endeavors of exalted will which in themselves find
no accomplishment, shall build at length perfection. Peacefully he[20] sleeps, who erst beheld
the rifted shores of Greenland "glister in the sun, like gold:" and that deserted chief[21]
whose angry moan once mingled wildly with the screaming winds and the hoarse gurgle of ingulfing
waves, is unremembered now. But high Emprise died not with them. Have not our latter days beheld,
with awe, the ice-borne Muscovite[22] ride the fierce billows of the Polar Sea? Has not the
Northern hunter seen the flag of England, o'er her floating palaces, unfurled in his dominions
crystalline? And who shall mourn, while, in the mystic race, from hand to hand still moves
the unquenched torch, that none have reached the goal? Not suddenly doth the sweet warmth of
universal life, from brumal caves advancing, interfuse the vast abysmal air, or penetrate the
deep heart of the frost-entranced Earth. Gentle, and in its very gentleness invincible, it
moves, though ruthlessly stern Winter calls his rallied armies on, and snow-blasts violate
the joyous prime. So is it, with the silent victories of Man's enduring spirit: we have seen
Winter and Spring; and shall we not behold the full rejoicing of the complete year?

The hour shall come, nor shall the longing heart in that dark interval be all unblest with
glance prophetic. Though no meteor shape glare from the speaking sky, no sheeted ghost wander
dim-moving in the weird midnight, with such forshadowings true as ever wait on him who, with
a calm and reverend eye, hath viewed the mysteries of things, and dared to image forth the
future from the past--bind on the mystic robe, and from the brow of Hope's enchanted hill look
boldly forth upon the coming ages. Saw ye not white fog-wreaths floating through the cold gray
dawn over ice-laden billows, as they roll through yon rock-cinctured chasm? A dusky shape looms
through the hazy atmosphere, and sails, as of some struggling bark that wearily breasts the
opposing strength of angry waves,[23] float with a fitful motion to and fro. Still on and on--a
breath-suspending sight of pale Solicitude, and fearful hope--and hark! the triple crash of
Britain's joy, the magical music of her wild hurra, peals with a sound of mighty exultation
through the aerial depths. The cloven mist unwraps its folded canopy, and lo! the blue Pacific,
boundlessly outspread, far glitters in the silvery light of morn.

FOOTNOTES:

[10] Columbus.

[11] The phenomenon which is commonly called Aurora Borealis, is in high latitudes frequently
seen to the south.

[12] On entering the Arctic Circle, the musical sounds of the white whales is first heard.

[13] Modern discoverers have frequently found an open passage in latitudes, where chains of
hills were laid down in the old charts.

[14] The effect of the change of temperature at the beginning of winter is almost instantaneous,
as young ice at the thickness of half an inch will stop a large vessel in full sail.

[15] Captain Parry found considerable advantage from raising a wall of snow round the ship,
in its winter station.

[16] The theatrical amusements, which were introduced during the stay of the Fury and Hecla
at Melvile Island, are well known.

[17] Alluding to the following lines of Mr. Wordsworth:--

    ----"Pleasure is spread throughout the earth,
    In stray gifts, to be claim'd by whoever shall find."

[18] The beautiful effect of these Arctic Oases is described in the account of Captain Parry's
second voyage.

[19] See the speech attributed by Socrates to Diotima in the Banquet of Plato.

[20] Sir Martin Frobisher, who in 1577 anchored on the Western coast of Greenland, reported
that in that country "the stones be altogether sparkled, and glister in the sun like gold."

[21] Hudson.

[22] Baron Wrangle.

RECOLLECTIONS OF PAGANINI.

The "Leaves from the Portfolio of a Manager," in the December Dublin University Magazine, disclose
a number of interesting facts connected with Prynne's "Histriomastix," Milton's "Samson Agonistes,"
Hannah More's "Tragedies," Ireland's "Shakspeare Forgeries," and not a few very startling disclosures
respecting the extraordinary emoluments of first class performers, from Roscius down to Jenny
Lind. From this portion of our Manager's Portfolio we select the amusing recollections of Paganini
in Ireland, twenty years ago:

"Catalani, Pasta, Sontag, Malibran, Grisi, Taglioni, Rubini, Mario, Tamburini, Lablache, cum
multis aliis, have received their thousands, and tens of thousands: but, until the Jenny Lind
mania left every thing else at an immeasurable distance, Paganini obtained larger sums than
had ever before been received in modern times. He came with a prodigious flourish of trumpets,
a vast continental reputation, and a few personal legends of the most exciting character. It
was said that he had killed his wife in a fit of jealousy, and made fiddlestrings of her intestines;
and that the devil had composed a sonata for him in a dream, as he formerly did for Tartini.
When you looked at him, you thought all this, and more, very likely to be true. His talent
was almost supernatural, while his 'get up,' and 'mise en scene,' were original and unearthly,
such as those who saw him will never forget, and those who did not can with difficulty conceive.
The individual and his performance were equally unlike anything that had ever been exhibited
before. No picture or description can convey an adequate idea of his entrance and his exit.
To walk simply on and off the stage appears a commonplace operation enough, but Paganini did
this in a manner peculiar to himself, which baffled all imitation. While I am writing of it,
his first appearance in Dublin, at the great Musical Festival of 1830, presents itself to 'my
mind's eye,' as an event of yesterday. When he placed himself in position to commence, the
crowded audience were hushed into a deathlike silence. His black habiliments; his pale, attenuated
visage, powerfully expressive; his long, silky, raven tresses, and the flash of his dark eye,
as he shook them back over his shoulders; his thin, transparent fingers, unusually long; the
mode in which he grasped his bow, and the tremendous length to which he drew it; and, climax
of all, his sudden manner of placing both bow and instrument under his arm, while he threw
his hands behind him, elevated his head, his features almost distorted with a smile of ecstasy,
and his very hair instinct with life, at the conclusion of an unparalleled fantasia! And there
he stood, immovable and triumphant, while the theatre rang again with peals on peals of applause,
and shouts of the wildest enthusiasm! None who witnessed this will ever forget it, nor are
they likely again to see the same effect produced by mere mortal agency.

"The one string feat I always considered unworthy this great master of his art. It has been
done by fifty others, and is at best but an imperfect exhibition on a perfect instrument; a
mere piece of charlatanerie, or theatrical 'gag,' to use a professional term, sufficiently
intelligible. There have been, and are, mighty musicians on the violin. Spagnoletti, De Beriot,
Ole Bull (who according to some plays without any string at all), Sivori, Joachim, Ernst, Levey,
&c. &c., are all in the list of great players; but there never was more than one Paganini;
he is unique and unapproachable.

"In Dublin, in 1830, Paganini saved the Musical Festival, which would have failed but for his
individual attraction, although supported by an army of talent in every department. All was
done in first-rate style, not to be surpassed. There were Braham, Madame Stockhausen, H. Phillips,
De Begnis, &c. &c., Sir G. Smart for conductor, Cramer, Mori, and T. Cooke for leaders, Lindley,
Nicholson, Anfossi, Lidel Hermann, Pigott, and above ninety musicians in the orchestra, and
more than one hundred and twenty singers in the chorus. The festival was held in the Theatre-Royal,
then, as now, the only building in Dublin capable of accommodating the vast number which alone
could render such a speculation remunerative. The theatre can hold two thousand six hundred
persons, all of whom may see and hear, whether in the boxes, pit, or galleries. The arrangement
was, to have oratorios kept distinct on certain mornings, and miscellaneous concerts on the
evenings of other days. The concerts were crushers, but the first oratorio was decidedly a
break down. The committee became alarmed; the expenses were enormous, and heavy liabilities
stared them in the face. There was no time to be lost, and at the second oratorio, duly announced,
there stood Paganini, in front of the orchestra, violin in hand, on an advanced platform, overhanging
the pit, not unlike orator Henley's tub, as immortalized by the poet. Between the acts of the
Messiah and the Creation, he fiddled 'the Witches at the Great Walnut Tree of Benevento,' with
other equally appropriate interpolations, to the ecstatic delight of applauding thousands,
who cared not a pin for Hadyn or Handel, but came to hear Paganini alone; and to the no small
scandal of the select few, who thought the episode a little on the north side of consistency.
But the money was thereby forthcoming, every body was paid, the committee escaped without damage,
and a hazardous speculation, undertaken by a few spirited individuals, was wound up with deserved
success.

"When the festival was over, the town empty, and a cannon-ball might have fired down Sackville-street,
without doing much injury, Paganini was engaged by himself for a series of five performances
in the theatre. For this he received £1,143. His dividend on the first night's receipts amounted
to £330 (horresco referens)! without a shilling of outlay incurred on his part. He had the
lion's share with a vengeance, as the manager cleared with difficulty £200. The terms he demanded
and obtained were a clear two-thirds of each night's receipts, twenty-five guineas per night
for the services of two auxiliaries, worth about as many shillings, the full value allowed
for every free ticket, and an express stipulation that if he required a rehearsal on a dark
morning, when extra light might be indispensable, the expense of candles should not fall on
him--a contingency which by no possible contrivance could involve a responsibility exceeding
five or six shillings."

FOOTNOTES:

[23] A current is supposed to flow constantly from the Pacific through the North-West Passage
into the Atlantic.

A PEASANT DUCHESS.

The Stamford Mercury gives an interesting account of the life and fortunes of a young woman
of that neighborhood who rose to a high station by means of her personal attractions, and,
after a checkered life, died in Italy a few weeks ago. She was the daughter of John Peele,
a small farmer at Corringham, near Gainsborough, who eked out a somewhat declining livelihood
by dealing in horses, &c., having previously been in better circumstances. Being an only daughter,
and aware that she possessed no small share of rustic charms, she resolved to try her fortune
in a higher sphere. She became a dressmaker in Gainsborough, and resided subsequently in Hull,
and it is said as housemaid in a good family in London, where her attractions obtained for
her the attentions of a person of rank, to whom she afterwards averred she was married; and
she from that time occupied a position where her fortunes led her into contact with some of
the highest classes. A few years afterwards she astonished her former companions by appearing
with her carriage and livery servants in the character of chère amie to Mr. Fauntleroy, then
a flourishing banker in London. The riches of the banker were of a doubtful character, however;
some time afterward she was convicted of forgery, and paid the penalty with his life. Affected
by the ruin, but not participating in the crime of Fauntleroy, she struggled bravely with fate,
and generally maintained a fair appearance in society both in London and Paris. She shortly
reappeared in her native county as Duchess of Palata. At this time the fortunes of her family
had reduced them to be the occupants of a small cottage at Morton, and age rendering her father
incapable of active exertion, he filled the humble office of rural postman. To her honor it
should be recorded that she enabled her parents to pass the remainder of their days in comfort.
Six or seven years ago she again visited her native place, a widow, his grace the Duke of Palata
having paid the debt of nature. Her mother she left at Morton, paid the last duties to her
father (somewhat ostentatiously), and volunteered her assistance to promote the advancement
of her female relatives. Again, however, "a change came o'er the spirit of her dream;" and
some three or four years ago the public journals announced her marriage to the son of an Irish
clergyman of good family. In this character, accompanied by her niece as femme de chambre,
but not by her husband, she once more visited Gainsborough and the scenes of her youth; after
making her mother an allowance, she again departed for Italy, in good health; but death, which
spares neither rank nor character, has closed the "last scene of all, in this strange eventful
history."

       *       *       *       *       *

The author of the "Nibelungenlied" is unknown, and, whether it be the work of one poet, of
two, or twenty, is still a matter of doubt, among German critics. That the Nibelungenlied has
been extensively interpolated, is, I believe, agreed on all hands; we may conclude as much,
from having reason to believe that it was handed down for some time (how long, nobody knows
for certain), by oral tradition, and what effect such a state of things may have on popular
poetry, we may readily collect from what Bishop Percy and Sir Walter Scott have told us of
the variations in the old ballads of England and Scotland. Lachmann attributes it to the thirteenth
century.

Original Correspondence.

    PARIS, DEC. 2, 1850.

FROM time immemorial, no one knows why (for the legends which recount her history leave it
doubtful whether she performed on any instrument), St. Cecilia has been chosen by musicians
as their patron saint; and the musicians of Paris, on the approach of winter, always celebrate
a mass, in music, to her honor, and for the benefit of the distressed members of their body.
Not that they entertain any exaggerated idea of the consoling powers of the musical art, or
hope to relieve the positive sufferings of poverty and destitution by any combination of sounds,
no matter how harmonious; but this festival being held in the church of St. Eustache, the largest
in Paris, and all lovers of music being so eager to gain admission, that the immense aisles
of this grand old pile (which will contain five thousand persons), are always crowded to overflowing
on these occasions, every one paying a franc for his admission: the sum thus gained, together
with the collections taken up in the middle of the service, by the committee of ladies chosen
for that purpose (who go round among the crowd, preceded by the beadle, and followed by two
or three attendant gentlemen, carrying a little embroidered bag of a particular shape, used
for that purpose, in which they receive the contributions of the benevolent), constitute a
fund, from which many an unfortunate or superannuated brother of the tuneful craft obtains relief.

This vast building, with its lofty arches, is admirably calculated for the performance of grand
religious compositions; the effect of the music being enhanced by the aspect of the building,
and the accessories of sculpture, painting, and carving, which render this church one of the
richest in the capital.

To obtain places on any occasion of the kind, it is necessary to go an hour or two in advance;
and the gradual filling of the aisles is one of the most curious scenes which a stranger can
contemplate. As there are no pews, each person, on entering, helps himself or herself to a
chair, which he holds aloft over the heads of his already seated neighbors, as he slowly forces
his way onward through their serried ranks, until he espies some unappropriated gap into which
he can insinuate his chair and himself; the police and the beadles always taking care to keep
a little pathway, just large enough to squeeze through, open all through the outer aisle that
runs round the church. For the unfortunate people who form the walls of this pathway, the process
of filling is a severe infliction; the uninterrupted stream of in-comers, forcing their way
along with a ruthless disregard of the shoulders of those between whom they pass, is really,
(especially when the in-comer happens to be a very stout man, or a very fat lady, enveloped
in an unusual quantity of drapery,) almost overpowering. Every now and then the beadle comes
along, rapping his silver-headed cane on the pavement, and crying, "Way, there! keep out of
the path!" and escorting a party of privileged individuals for whom seats have been reserved;
and, as the beadle is always tall and stout, and always forces his way through in defiance
of apparent impossibilities, a chorus of murmurs accompanies his progress. The beadle is a
very grand personage, and his appearance sufficiently indicates this fact. He wears a cocked
hat, covered with silver lace, and decorated with nodding white plumes; a scarf of crimson
velvet, stiff with embroidery in silver thread, covers the upper part of his person; black
velvet smalls, fastened at the knee with silver buckles, white silk stockings and gloves, and
enormous buckles in his polished shoes, complete his attire. He wears a massive silver chain
round his neck; and a sword hangs at his side to strike terror into the hearts of all beholders.
Besides the grand beadle, there are several minor ones, dressed in black, but wearing heavy
silver chains; gens d'armes also are always present, and often soldiers, who mount guard, musket
in hand, at all the doorways, and on the steps of the chancel.

When these sapient guardians of the peace perceive that as many have been admitted as can possibly
be squeezed into the building, they shut the doors; and the process of distribution goes on
until the mass is equalized throughout the edifice; a task of no small difficulty, as the portions
of the building contiguous to the doors are always densely packed at an early period, so that
the greater number have to pass through these crowded centres to gain the remoter parts of
the church. Meantime people chat, and look about them, amusing themselves as they best can;
and the sonorous edifice echoes with the footsteps of the moving mass. But at length the noise
subsides; the "organ utters its voices," and a hush, intense, unbroken, falls on the vast assembly.
The glorious music peals through the vaulted aisles, and swells upward to the arching roof,
pervading every nook and corner of the fane; and so perfect is the stillness that one would
think the winged notes the only living things within its precincts.

On Friday last this annual solemnity was celebrated as usual at St. Eustache; the mass, composed
by Adam, a very noble and beautiful composition, was admirably executed by a choir of two hundred
and fifty singers, and a band of one hundred musicians, including the whole orchestra of the
Opera Comique, and the best performers from the Italian opera. The solos were sung by Mesdames
Grimm and Couraud, and by Bassine and Chapuis, the latter being one of the best tenors in the
city. Some of the quartettes, with accompaniments of harps and wind instruments, were indescribably
beautiful.

The Archbishop of Paris made an elegant little address, in which he spoke of art in Pagan and
in Christian days, and of its mission in the present; and winding up with an appeal to the
liberality of his hearers on behalf of the charitable idea which had prompted this performance.
The Archbishop is a man of mild and grave countenance, but his dress was very inharmonious.
He wore a surplice of very rich lace, a cape of violet silk, and a scarf richly embroidered
in gold, which was all very pretty, but his arms and hands were encased in sleeves, finished
with gloves, of scarlet cloth, which showed through the lace sleeves of the surplice, and gave
the hands a very frightful appearance. He wore a little round cap on the top of his head, a
golden crucifix on his bosom, and an enormous gold ring on his right hand. He spoke very slowly,
screaming rather than speaking, in order to make himself heard in the distant parts of the
building. The service lasted two hours, and yielded several thousand francs.

The Duchess of Narbonne, famed for her benevolence, was so desirous to aid on this occasion,
that though unable, on account of her great age, to go among the crowd making the guest, as
it is termed, she held a bag at one of the great doors, adding to the sum she thus received,
a thousand francs as her own contribution, and a hundred francs for her chair, for which the
ordinary price is two sous.

The musicians are not alone in their preparations for winter. The shopkeepers are just beginning
the periodic display which betokens the coming on of the holidays: and conspicuous among the
novelties whose appearance thus indicate the approach of Christmas, is a new style of porcelain,
of English invention, which imitates with great success the antique marble vases, pitchers,
&c., of classic days. Many of these objects are of great beauty; the creamy hue of the ware
itself, slightly translucent, the graceful simplicity of their forms, and the delicate mouldings
of classical designs in bass-relief with which they are adorned, producing an admirable effect,
highly creditable to English taste.

While modern art is thus successfully emulating the symmetrical achievements of ancient times,
a relic of great interest, recalling the romantic age of Spanish history, has just been unexpectedly
brought to light. Some workmen, employed in making repairs in the Guildhall of Burgos, in Spain,
have recently discovered the tomb of the Cid, so renowned in ancient story; a tomb whose very
existence was unknown. An old chest, long considered as mere rubbish, and on which stood the
antique chair from which, in other days, the Counts of Castille gave judgment, having been
opened through the curiosity of these workmen, was found to contain the remains of Don Rodrigo
Campeador, and his wife Chimena, immortalized in ancient legend, in the verses of Guilhen de
Castro, of Corneille, and in our own days, in the graceful writings of Mrs. Hemans. The remains
of the renowned hero and his beautiful spouse are to be removed to the church of San Gadeo,
where a suitable monument will be erected to their memory.

The following incident, connected with the two prevailing manias of the day, lapdogs and balloon-ascensions,
is just now amusing the gay circles of this gossiping capital.

It seems that Madame de N., the accomplished and beautiful wife of a triple millionaire of
the quartier St. Honore, equally renowned for the charms of her wit, and for the intensity
of her passion for the barking pets so dear to Parisian hearts, had taken a violent fancy (shared
by half Paris) to a certain tiny gray spaniel, the property of one of the most admired of the
innumerable representatives of Albion at this time here congregated, the beautiful and distinguished
Lady R., whose intimacy was assiduously cultivated by Madame de N., all for the love of the
little gray spaniel.

Sylphide, the spaniel in question, was in sooth well calculated to make havoc in hearts susceptible
to canine charms. Her glossy fur, combed, bathed, and perfumed every day with the utmost care,
was of the most delicate mouse-color, and softer than silk; her lustrous eyes sparkled like
jewels, and her expressive face, with the delicate drooping ears that adorned her graceful
head, were the realization of the most ideal dream of little-doggish beauty; her tail was perfection;
her slender legs, in their light electric movements, hardly touched the ground; and the dainty
way in which she raised her charming little paws from the sidewalk, when, by some rare chance
(attired in her newest paletot of the finest merino, lined with wadded silk, and trimmed with
a rich braid, her neck encircled with a silver collar, whose burnished chain was attached to
her mistress's waist), she honored the sidewalk with their pressure, was so irresistibly bewitching,
that all the fair round arms of Paris opened spontaneously at the sight, as though to offer
a nestling-place to the little beauty, and raise her from a contact unworthy of so peerless
a creature.

Any price, no matter how exorbitant, that could have been asked for this little paragon, Madame
de N. would very gladly have paid; but, unhappily, Sylphide was not to be sold: Lady R. was
very fond of her, and never seemed to understand the various hints thrown out from time to
time, with the utmost tact and delicacy, but still quite intelligibly, by Madame de N.; and
all that the latter could do was to bring her utmost power of petting to bear on the subject
of her adoration, trusting to some unlooked-for stroke of good fortune to aid her in the accomplishment
of her heart's desire.

Sylphide was excessively fond of sugar-plums (in which she was a great connoisseur), and also
of fresh brioche, crumbs of which she would eat, in the most charming manner, from the snowy
hand of her admiring friend; and as the bonbonnière of Madame de N. was always well supplied
with her favorite dainties, Sylphide, who, on her side, was not ungrateful, soon contracted
a lively affection for Madame de N. and her bonbonnière.

Such was the position of affairs, when an incident occurred which produced a total estrangement
between the two ladies. M. de S., a gentleman well known in the diplomatic circles, whom Madame
de N. had long numbered among her conquests, fascinated by the charms of the fair islander,
deserted his brilliant countrywoman, and ranged himself among the satellites of her rival.
And by a curious coincidence, at the very time that M. de S. quitted thus abruptly the orbit
of Madame de N., the Prince of ----, who had hitherto been one of the brightest luminaries
in the train of Lady R., left her ladyship to lay his homage at the feet of the charming Parisian.
But the acquisition of the Prince seems to have failed to console the latter for the loss of
a knight who had so long worn her colors; and the defection of M. de S. drew from her an expression
of resentment towards her rival, which the mutual friend to whom these angry feelings had been
confided, lost no time in repeating to the object of her displeasure. But Lady R., so far from
being affected by the indignation of Madame de N., merely replied, with a careless shrug of
her handsome shoulders, "Mais, ma chère, she has really nothing to complain of; all the world
knows that 'exchange is no robbery!'"

At this time a magnificent bracelet, the latest achievement of the wonder-working atèliers
of Froment & Meurice, had been the object of Lady R.'s most violent desire; but her lord, who
was subject to occasional attacks of a malady not uncommon to the husbands of beautiful and
fashionable ladies, was just then suffering from an attack of jealousy so acute, that, to the
despair of Lady R., he utterly refused to gratify her desire to become the possessor of this
costly ornament; and the lady, after having vainly called to her aid all the force of her address,
and all the charms of her eloquence, found herself obliged, though with a heavy heart, to renounce
the idea of its acquisition.

Lady R.'s desire for this bracelet, and its disappointment, were no secret to Madame de N.;
and on learning, from the gossiping confidant, the response made by her rival to her complaint,
a sudden thought darted through her mind. "Chère amie," said she to the confidant, "I beg you
to say to her ladyship, that, since such is her opinion, I hold her to the acceptance of the
consequences of her maxim."

The confidant lost no time in delivering this message, to which Lady R., thinking only of her
host of admirers, laughingly replied, that Madame de N. was quite at liberty to make any practical
application of the principle that she pleased.

Within two hours from the reception of this challenge, the beautiful bracelet, inclosed in
an elegant case, on whose lid the initials of Lady R., surrounded by her crest, were engraved
in letters of gold, had passed from the jeweller's show-rooms to the boudoir of Madame de N.,
who thenceforth, by means of an espionage that followed every movement of her rival, kept her
constantly in view. At length the tournament, to be followed by the balloon-ascension (held
a week or two ago in the Champ de Mars), was announced to the great delight of the spectacle-loving
public; and having learned that the fair Englishwoman was to be present in an open carriage,
Madame de N. determined to avail herself of this occasion to execute her scheme.

Accordingly on the appointed day, the bracelet, in its elegant case, being placed in the carriage
beside her, and the coachman duly instructed in the part he was to play, Madame de N., holding
in her hand her bonbonnière, supplied with fresh crumbs of the most delicate brioche, followed,
at short distance, the carriage of her rival to the Champ de Mars, and took her stand just
in the rear of her ladyship's phaeton.

Lady R. was in excellent spirits, receiving the homage of a crowd of attendant cavaliers; Sylphide,
to the unspeakable joy of Madame de N., being seated on the front seat nearest her carriage.

Madame de N. waited patiently through the various evolutions of the gorgeous scene; and, at
its close, when the great balloon of M. Poitevin rose majestically from the field, surrounded
by its graceful band of nymphs that seemed to float, self-sustained, in the air, their silver
wands and wreaths of flowers shining in the light of the setting sun, when all eyes followed
the aëronauts, and deafening acclamations rent the air, in less time than we take in recounting
the movement, the carriage of Madame de N. advanced to the side of Lady R.'s; Sylphide, attracted
by the well-known bonbonnière, leapt lightly into the outstretched arms of her friend; and
Madame de N. depositing the morocco case on the very spot Sylphide had quitted, bowed gracefully
to her rival, and drove rapidly away, before Lady R. had had time to comprehend what was passing.

Great was her ladyship's amazement, as may well be supposed; and great, for the first few moments,
was also her indignation; but the mystery was soon explained; for, in opening the case, which
occupied Sylphide's vacant place, and which was unmistakably intended for her, she perceived
the rich bracelet she had so much wished for, and beside it, the card of Madame de N., on which
was written, in pencil, these words, which contained the key of the enigma, "Exchange is no
robbery."

A hearty laugh, which she tried in vain to repress, broke from the lips of the fair lady; much
to the astonishment of the gentlemen who had witnessed the scene, and to whom, notwithstanding
their eager inquiries, Lady R. very naturally declined giving any explanation of the affair.

I shall observe your instructions, to keep you advised of whatever occurs here in the middle
of the world.

    STELLA.

Authors and Books.

The German book trade has, for some months, been fairly overwhelmed with books upon Hungary.
We notice among the latest, "Flowers from Hungarian Battlefields," a collection of novelettes,
with scenes drawn from real life in the late war, by Sajó, one of the most popular writers
of Hungary. The stories are spirited and vivid. "Confessions of a Civilian," and "Confessions
of a Soldier," are two books, of which the last named has been for some time before the public,
and has excited attention by the thoroughness of its absolutist tendencies. The Civilian is
the opposite of the Soldier, being a liberal of the first stamp. Both these writers, however,
oppose the present Austrian ministry. A German translation of Horwath's "History of the Hungarians"
is coming out at Pesth in numbers, and is welcomed by the German critics. This is regarded
by the most competent judges as an excellent work. "János the Hero," a Romance of Hungarian
Peasant Life, by Alexander Petöfy, one of the most popular Magyar writers, is spoken of as
a most successful delineation of national peculiarities. "The Revolution and the Jews in Hungary,"
is an interesting chapter out of the history of the Hungarian Jews, by J. Eichorn. The fidelity
of the Hebrews to the cause represented by Kossuth and his associates, and defended by the
entire nation, is as well known as the extortions with which the butcher Haynau attempted to
punish their patriotism. Rerum Hungaricum Monumenta is the last work of the lamented antiquarian
Eudlicher, and is designed to open to the literary world the authentic sources of early Hungarian
history. It is, in short, a most valuable collection of ancient documents relating to the origin
of the Magyars, their first settlement in Hungary, and their history under the native princes
of the race of Arpad. One of the best results of this work will be the provocation of other
savans to similar investigations, which cannot fail to throw light on many obscure historical
questions.

       *       *       *       *       *

A very interesting work has just made its appearance at Leipsic, giving an intimate though
by no means flattering account of the condition of the POLISH POPULATION IN GALLICIA. The peculiarities
of this race of people are described as wild barbarism combined with elegant politeness, dreamy
melancholy, and practical cunning. The author was in Gallicia before the peasants' insurrection
in 1846. He narrates a variety of the most striking scenes, which though highly colored are
apparently true in the main. Among other things he gives an account of a dinner-party to which
he was invited, at the house of a nobleman. The house stood in the midst of a scattered mass
of outbuildings, none of which bore the slightest appearance of neatness, order, or comfort.
Every thing, in fact, has the appearance of neglect and decay. Many of the walls are supported
by props to prevent them from tumbling. Around the doors the slightest rain produces a disgusting
morass, while the general aspect of the whole reminds the beholder of Attila's wooden palace
in Pannonia, where he heaped up the booty of a world, and received the ambassadors of Rome.
When the writer reached the door, he found his host with some other gentlemen waiting to receive
him. The company was numerous, and all, especially the ladies, expensively dressed, in the
last Parisian fashion, with abundant jewelry and ornaments. The saloon in which they were received
was large but low, the walls covered with dirty paper, the floor of rough boards, the furniture
of all sorts and sizes, and nowhere a trace of art or refined taste. The conversation was carried
on in French, and the ladies exhibited a thorough acquaintance with Paris matters, notabilities,
and gossip generally. At the table the drinking was almost incredible, and the topic of conversation,
the emancipation of Poland. Every word was aimed at the conversion of the German guest. The
hard treatment of the serfs was spoken of as necessary, as they must be kept in complete subjection
in order to be made useful in the great work. The festivity grew more and more ardent, till
at last one of the gentlemen took a shoe off from a lady's foot, filled it with wine, and after
drinking from it himself, passed it to the others, so that all could pledge the ladies from
such a cup. The next morning the stranger saw by chance a sight of another kind, as he was
taking a walk. Behind a wall a man lay on the earth; another held fast his head, and a third
his feet, while a fourth stood over him with a whip, laying on with all his might. The lord
stood by in his dressing-gown, smoking a long pipe, and coolly directing the procedure. The
guest turned away from the spectacle, but was told by his servant that this was the tenth man
who had undergone the same punishment that morning. The offence was, that they had not begun
work at sunrise. Of course a peasantry so treated could have no affection for their masters.
All the work was done in the worst manner, while the lord was plundered in every way by his
servants. Of the supplies for the family, more than half were regularly stolen, there being
no supervision in the household. The extravagance of the masters was boundless, and when they
got out of money they resorted to the Jews, who had the whole commerce of the country in their
hands, besides having mortgages on most of the estates.

This is the merest outline of a small portion of the book. It renders more intelligible the
atrocities which took place in the insurrection of 1846, and which the Austrian Government
permitted, if they did not foment.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the most remarkable philologists and travellers of the present day is the Hungarian
Professor REGULY, a man as yet little known out of his own country and northern Europe. He
has devoted himself a good deal to the exposition of the affinities between the Magyar and
the Finnish languages, and his labors have impelled a number of learned Hungarians to the same
study. In the year 1839 he left his country, and passed ten years in the north of Asia and
Europe, mostly among the Finnish tribes of the Moguls, Ostiacks, Tsheremisses, Nordwins, &c.,
making himself familiar with their manners, customs, dialects, songs, and traditions, in order
to attain a thorough personal acquaintance therewith. He also spent a long period in Kasan
and St. Petersburgh, studying the other languages of Central Asia. His adventures during this
time were, as may be supposed, remarkable. He suffered not only the privations and exposures
inseparable from such an undertaking, but was also poorly supplied with money, and often in
the greatest distress from that cause. Nothing but scientific enthusiasm carried him through,
till he became acquainted with some Russian savans, and a Russian Councillor named Balugyanszky,
who were of great assistance to him. He left his home a vigorous young man, and comes back
broken down in strength and health. His investigations have related not only to philology,
but to geography and ethnography. He has penetrated farther into the north of Asia than any
previous traveller. On his return, at St. Petersburgh, he prepared, at the special request
of the Geographical Society, a vast map of Northern Asia along the Ural Mountains, between
58 and 70 deg. north latitude, and 72 and 80 deg. east longitude, giving about five hundred
localities. This map is made on the largest scale, containing sixteen large quarto sheets.
The St. Petersburgh Gazette says of it, that it has proved Reguly to be the discoverer of a
vast territory for Russia. He is now at Pesth, engaged in preparing for publication the fruits
of his ten years' absence from home. He will treat of the languages of the European and Asiatic
Finnish tribes, their grammar and vocabularies, with constant regard to the analogies of the
Magyar tongue. By way of introduction he will first publish a special work, containing his
philosophical views on the organism of language. After these philological treatises he will
print a series of ethnographic works on the various races among which he has lived, with collections
of their songs and traditions, and finally a detailed narrative of his travels, with a condensed
account of their scientific results. The conclusion of his philological studies is briefly,
that the Central-Asiatic, or as it might be called, the Ural-Altaic group of languages, is
divided into six branches or families, namely, the language of the Mandshu Tartars, the Mongols,
the Turkish-Tartar tribes, the Samoyedes, the Fins, and the Magyars. These families have however
no nearer relation to each other than the individual tongues of the Indo-European group, as
the Indian, the Romanic, German, Celtic, Slavic, and Persian languages. Still he regards the
Magyar and Finnic languages as having greater mutual affinities than the others, though not
to such a degree that one of these races of men can be supposed to be derived from the other.
He rather supposes all of the races whose languages form the Central-Asiatic group to have
sprung from an original race, which was probably Scythian.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Austrian government has just set on foot an enterprise which promises to be of use to both
Literature and Science. The plan is, to prepare and publish at the expense of the Imperial
Treasury, a great work on the ethnography of the Empire, and all savans, teachers, artists,
poets, of every race, are invited to furnish materials. It is designed to give a complete account
of the origin, history, manners, language, character and condition of each of the many tribes
and peoples included under the Austrian sceptre. This will be combined of course with descriptions
of the country, scenery, climate, soil, minerals, and natural and industrial productions of
each region. It is supposed that the whole will be completed in eight big volumes. It will
be accompanied by a vast ethnographic map, which is now being prepared with great energy under
the superintendence of the Minister of Commerce.

       *       *       *       *       *

KARL GUTZKOW is one of the most prolific and popular novel and playwrights now living in Germany.
As to his last work, Die Ritter vom Geiste (The Knights of the Spirit), of which only the first
volume has been published, the critics entertain the most contradictory opinions. Some exclaim
at its great length, which indeed is rather terrific: there are to be nine books, and the first
occupies the whole of the first volume. Others are charmed with the skill with which the details
of the work are wrought up, and the great variety of persons who figure in the story. The author
has certainly laid out all his strength in this book, which is designed to reproduce the present
age in all the contradictions of its doctrines and the complexity of its tendencies. But instead
of seizing these in some central and vital point, and setting them forth in a work whose very
simplicity would conceal its depth from most readers, Gutzkow has adopted the easier and more
clumsy method of multiplying his characters and complicating the actions of his drama. Thus
it is hardly possible for it not to be tedious and a failure. But we can speak of it more fairly
when it is farther advanced.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. NEANDER'S Library is advertised for sale by auction at Berlin, but our correspondent thinks
it will be saved from the hammer by a private subscription, which will secure it to the University.

       *       *       *       *       *

KARL SIMROCK has just brought out at Frankfort a new collection of GERMAN POPULAR SONGS, not
obsolete or artistic poems, but such as still live among the people, and are familiar to every
class. "Among Volkslieder," he says in his preface, "I include only such as have proceeded
directly from the people, and still bear the tokens of their origin, in their unsophisticated
form, and simple, hearty language. The pieces of cultivated poets which have found access and
become loved with the people, are reserved for a future collection of favorite German songs.
The distinction here hinted at between the people's songs and popular songs is not generally
understood. All previous collections have confused the two, and some even have not a single
production of the people. For example, Des Knaben Wunderhorn, whose great merit must be recognized,
contains antique poems which by no means issued from among the people." In another place he
says: "The songs here collected and arranged have been newly written down, literally from the
mouths of the people; and where they could not be procured in this way, have been corrected
by comparison of all earlier versions. So that as they here stand, they are in a sort my own
property." The work is spoken of by competent critics as perfectly successful. We believe that
Simrock, who is perhaps better qualified for the undertaking than any other man in Germany,
intends in a future edition to publish the melodies of the songs along with the words.

       *       *       *       *       *

Belgian Literature is a standing joke with the authors of Paris, and not without reason, for
the majority of the books printed by the publishers of Belgium, are pirated from their French
neighbors. There is, however, such a thing as a Belgian literature, though it is not very extensive,
and one of its chief ornaments is Professor BORGNEL, of Liege, best known as the author of
a Historie des Belges à la fin du dix-huilième Siècle, published some six years since, to which
he is about to bring out an addition, carrying the history back to the beginning of the same
century. He has also been occupied for several years with the history of the Flemish Provinces,
under the domination of the Spaniards, and has a work on that subject in preparation. The Introduction
to it appeared not long since among the Memoirs of the Brussels Academy, where it is entitled:
Philippe I. et la Belgique. In treating a subject which the masterly pen of Schiller has already
rendered familiar to the world, Prof. Borgnel does not attempt to imitate the ardent and splendid
eloquence of that great poet and historian; Borgnel's merits are distinctness in his outlines,
remarkable clearness of arrangement, perfect impartiality towards individuals and parties,
and conscientious use of materials. Of these he has had a greater variety, including many manuscripts
not before brought to light, than any previous writer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Among the new books announced in London is Notes on North America, Agricultural, Social, and
Economical, by J. F. W. Johnston, author of "Lectures on Agricultural Chemistry." We may anticipate
something of value from a man of his studies and well earned reputation. Professor Johnston
passed the greater portion of his time, while in America, in the British Provinces. He had
been led to believe that they offered the most interesting field for his professional observation.
When he came into New-England, New-York and Pennsylvania, he was continually surprised at the
perfection and the success of our agriculture. He regretted only, that the mistake into which
he had been led by British travellers, had detained him from the United States until the period
of his absence from home was nearly expired. Professor Johnston's lectures in New-York were
given under singular disadvantages, but the too small audiences who heard them were pleased
and instructed. All who became acquainted with him were impressed with a belief of his candor
and his talents. We hope to see immediately an edition of his book in this country.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Geissen, Prof. LIEBIG, has published a Review of the Progress of Chemistry, Mineralogy,
and Geology, in the year 1849. He has been assisted in its preparation by Professor Kopp and
several other savans connected with the University at Giessen. It is marked by his usual completeness,
breadth of scope, and exhaustive treatment of each particular subject. Liebig is now engaged
in preparing a new series of Chemical Letters, which will be specially devoted to the growth
of this science, in connection with the history of mental progress in general. Professor Knobel,
of the same University, has also issued a work on the Genealogies of the Book of Genesis, which
excites remark by the thoroughness of its historical investigations. Leopold Schmid's last
work is on the Spirit of Catholicism, and also highly spoken of by both Catholic and Protestant
writers. This author holds a high rank in the Catholic literature of Germany, and has been
chosen Bishop of Mayence. Professor Hillebrand is occupied with a revision of his highly esteemed
History of German national literature since Lessing. There seems to be no reason to fear that
Giessen is doing less than its share toward keeping the ocean of German books up at a high-water
mark.

       *       *       *       *       *

The house, at Paris, in which EUGENE SUE laid some of the most exciting scenes of his "Wandering
Jew," has lately been advertised for sale, and has been visited by crowds of curious loungers.
It is known as the Hotel Serilly, and is situated at No. 5 Rue Neuve Saint François, in the
quarter called the Marais. At the time the "Wandering Jew" was published, the street was often
filled by groups of gazers at the strange old edifice, which had been so exactly described
by the romancer, that no one could mistake it. Some even ventured to knock at the door and
seek further information. They were received by a mysterious and taciturn old Hebrew, who looked
as if he himself had charge of the great Rennepeal treasure, and three-quarters of the visitors
went away convinced that they had seen the veritable Samuel himself. Now that the whole house
has been thrown open to the public, there have been found under it vast sub-cellars extending
under the large garden in the rear, and in these cellars are seven wells, partially filled
up, but with walls of careful masonry, and other indications that they were of great depth
and great utility. The opinion was at once set on foot by the explorers, that the millions
of the treasure had been concealed in one of these wells. The fact is, that the house formerly
belonged to a Protestant family which suffered extreme persecution after the revocation of
the Edict of Nantes, and which doubtless found the subterranean passages extremely convenient.
In the year 1791, it was inhabited by the revolutionist Carnot.

       *       *       *       *       *

The COUNT DE TOCQUEVILLE, a relative of the author of "Democracy in America," has just published
a historical work on the Reign of Louis XVI. The writer, an old man almost sinking into the
grave, enjoys the advantage of having himself witnessed and even shared in a part of the events
he describes. He was intimate with Malasherbes, and personally devoted to the unfortunate Louis.
Of his ability as a writer, a former work on the Reign of Louis XV. furnished proofs which
are repeated in the present volume. Of course he does full justice to the amiable personal
qualities of Marie Antoinette and her husband, without doing injustice to their faults. But
he shows that after all what was charged upon them as political crime, was but the consequence
of long-standing causes, over which they had no control, or even of measures of reform to which
with the best intentions, they had given their consent. In speaking of the mission of Franklin
at the French Court, M. de Tocqueville gives some interesting details. "At Paris," he says,
"the zeal for the cause of the insurgents constantly increased. The women who exercised a great
influence in the reign of Louis XVI., became passionate supporters of the Americans, and made
aiding them a question of honor. The simple manners of their envoys,--their hair without powder,
their citizens' dress, pleased by a sort of piquant novelty. All who approached Franklin were
charmed by his wit. In him people venerated the founder of the liberty of a great nation, and
even grew enthusiastic in behalf of that liberty." M. de Tocqueville shows however that the
prime minister Maurepas only feared the Americans because he was embarrassed in his position,
and thought to relieve himself by making war with England. But as there was no good reason
for making such a war, the honesty of the King revolted at it. M. de Vergennes also said in
the Council, that England would be much more weakened by a long war with her colonies, than
by their loss. "But how," repeated all the women, "can we help embracing the cause of a people
which sends us ambassadors without powder, and with shoe-strings, instead of buckles?" So weighty
a reason turned the balance, and the war was declared. That war finished the ruin of the French
monarchy, not only by inspiring the officers and soldiers sent to the United States with new
ideas, but also by completing the exhaustion of its finances. With regard to the Revolution
in which Louis XVI. lost his head, it is enough praise for our historian, that while he inclines
always to the monarchical side, he is not altogether unjust to the popular virtues which shone
with such rare brilliancy amid the gloom of that epoch.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great work of J. G. AUDUBON and the Rev. Dr. BACHMAN, upon the "Viviparous Quadrupeds of
North America," is much praised by those persons in Europe whose praise is of most value. The
Athenaeum remarks that, hitherto, the mammalia of America have been known chiefly through descriptions
by zoologists, in the Transactions of European Societies, and that no systematic attempt has
been made to bring together into one connected view the very varied forms of animal life presented
by this great continent, while these authors have not only used the materials which were at
hand in the works of others, but have themselves observed with great diligence the habits of
many of the creatures which they have described. "Their work is creditable to the United States,
where a large number of subscribers have induced the authors to undertake it,--and a most valuable
addition to our general natural-history literature." The geographical range within which the
animals described in these pages are found is not that of the government of the United States
merely; it comprehends Russian and British America, in fact, all the country which lies north
of the tropics in the New World.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the last MICHAELMAS BOOK FAIR at Leipsic, the Catalogue contained the titles of 5,023 new
works published in Germany since Easter. This is from twelve to fifteen hundred more than at
any fair since the Revolution of 1848. A great number of these books are large and of remarkable
merit, being in some sort, the accumulation of the more profound scientific labors of the past
two years.

       *       *       *       *       *

The BARONESS VON BECK has just published in London two volumes of "Personal Adventures" in
the Hungarian war. She is herself a Hungarian, and she saw her husband fall while cheering
his men to defend a barricade at Vienna. In this book Kossuth is her hero, her prophet, her
demigod; and she sacrifices all other celebrities without compunction at the altar of his greatness.
Dembinsky she treats with manifest injustice; Georgey comes out on her pages as a very Mephistopheles.
Klapka himself does not escape without animadversion. But without adopting her opinions, either
of the man she blames or the subject she discusses, it cannot be denied that she has great
cleverness, and a wonderful power of exciting and interesting the reader.

       *       *       *       *       *

A valuable scientific periodical is the Geographisches Jahrbuch for the Communication of all
the more important New Investigations, edited by the distinguished BERGHAUS, and published
by Perthes of Gotha. The last number has an article by the editor on the system of "Mountains
and Rivers of Africa," which differs altogether from what is laid down in the present maps.
The author lays down the river Nile as flowing from the N'Yassi, and as connected with a great
number of rivers in Dar Fur, Waday, and Fertil, with relation to which only the vaguest views
have hitherto been entertained. The article shows, too, that the newly discovered lake N'Gami,
in Southern Africa, has been long known under the name of Nampur. The same number of the Jahrbuch
also contains an article from the pen of the late lamented ALBERT GALLATIN, on the climate
of North America. This article was written in English, and was translated into German for the
Jahrbuch.

       *       *       *       *       *

BERGHAUS has also lately issued a complete work of the highest interest, especially now that
so much attention is every where paid to Ethnographic studies. Its title is Grundlinien der
Ethnographie (Outlines of Ethnography). It is in two parts, and contains a universal tabular
description of all the races of the globe, arranged ethnographically and geographically, and
according to languages and dialects, with a comparative view of their manners, customs, and
habits. No person who undertakes to investigate the origin of the human family and the mutual
relations of its different members, can afford to be without this work. Published in Stuttgart.

       *       *       *       *       *

BERTHOLD AUERBACH has just brought out a little volume of tales, which we may well infer from
his previous performances are charmingly replete with grace, good humor, and a keen perception
of whatever is peculiar to his subject. The title of the book is Deutsche Abende (German Evenings).
It contains three stories: "Nice People," "What is Happiness?" and "The Son of the Forester."
Published at Mannheim.

       *       *       *       *       *

BARON STERNBERG, a dilettante book-maker of Germany, who generally resides at Berlin, has just
added a new romance, or rather the beginning of one, to his previous publications. It bears
the promising, if not pretentious title, of The German Gil Blas (published at Bremen), and
claims to be comic, as a matter of course. As a whole, the book is a failure. Though there
are passages here and there which may be read with satisfaction, there is not enough unity
and connection between the different parts, and the humor is generally but a thin potation.
It must be said, however, that the absence of continuous interest is the fault of most comic
novels, as well as poems. Even the matchless works of Jean Paul grow tedious by the endeavor
to read much of them at a time, a fact which may be ascribed to the sentimentality and mere
fantastics with which the kernels of his wit are overburdened. It is certain that no German
humorous work can be compared with those great originals in that kind, Gil Blas and Don Quixote,
or even with the much inferior works of Smollett and Dickens. Baron Sternberg's last effort
forms no exception to this remark, and there is little hope that the second and concluding
volume, whose appearance in Germany ought to be made by this time, will prove superior to the
first. His "Royalists," an anti-democratic novel, which he had the courage to publish in the
chaos of 1848, and which excited much attention, and a great deal of severe criticism, was
far better.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE NEW FAITH SOUGHT IN ART," is the title of an anonymous little book lately issued at Paris,
which, though not of great value, has more poetic originality of thought than is often found
in printed pages. The author thinks that the time has gone by in which the subjects of art
could properly be sought in the lives of saints and legends of the Church, and wishes to substitute
for them the lives of artists and celebrated inventors, who have sprung from the bosom of the
people. With this writer, every thing is democratic and popular. For him the people is alone
King, and worthy of all honor. "Nothing," he says in one place, "is truer than the song of
Beethoven. It is the song of life, the voice of truth, an infallible voice, which will create
a world, and cause the old false world to crumble. Born of the people, the people sing in him,
although they know him not." In painting, the heroes of the author are Ruysdael, Rembrandt,
Claude-Lorraine, and Paul Potter.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Poet FREILIGRATH has received orders to leave the village of Bilk, in the neighborhood
of Dusseldorf; where he was residing, and to quit the Prussian territories. He will probably
go back to England, where he passed some time in a counting-house or perhaps come to the United
States, where he has several friends, to whom he has written of such an event as possible.

       *       *       *       *       *

In AFRICAN DISCOVERY greater advances have been made in the last two years than before since
the journeys of the brothers Lander. We mentioned in the last International that the American
traveller, Dr. W. Mathews, had been heard of at Vienna, and we now learn that he has been very
successful in the five years of his adventure in the northern and central parts of the continent.
Letters received in Berlin from Drs. Barth and Overweg, contain information of their having
accomplished the journey across the Great Desert, or Sahara, and of their arrival near the
frontiers of the kingdom of Air or Asben, (Air is the modern Tuarick, and Asben the ancient
Sudan name), the most powerful in that part of Africa after Bornou, and never explored by Europeans.
On the 24th of August--the date of their last letter--they were at Taradshit, a small place
in about 20° 30' N. latitude, and 9° 20' longitude E. of Greenwich. Among their discoveries
are some of peculiar interest, one of which is of several curious and very ancient sculptures,
apparently of Egyptian origin. The King of Prussia has, at the instance of the Chevalier Bunsen
and Baron Alexander von Humboldt, augmented the funds of the two travellers by a grant of 1,000
thalers.

While Richardson, Barth and Overweg have penetrated the terra incognita of the north, Dr. Krapf
and the Rev. Mr. Rebmann have explored the region described on the common maps as the "Great
Southern Sahara," and found it to be fertile, healthy, abounding in mountains, valleys and
rivers, and inhabited by a race altogether superior to that which occupies the Atlantic coast.
Mr. Mansfield Parkyns is endeavoring to cross the country southward from the Nile to the river
Gambia; Mr. Charles Johnson is travelling in Abysinnia; Baron von Müller is conducting an expedition
up the White Nile; and the American missionaries and colonists are gradually extending their
knowledge over the various settlements on the eastern coast of the continent.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRUSSIAN EXPEDITION TO EGYPT, Denkmaeler aus Ægypten und Æthiopien nach den Zeichnungen
der von Sr. Majestat dem Könige von Preussen Friedrich Wilhelm IV. nach diesen Ländern gesendeten,
und in den Jahren 1842-45, ausgefuhrten wissenschaftlichen Expedition: Herausgegeben von Dr.
R. Lepsius; published at the expense and under the guarantee of the Prussian Government, will
be completed in eighty parts, or eight hundred plates. Most of the plates are printed with
tints, and many in the colors of the originals. This work forms a necessary completion of the
celebrated work of the French Expedition under Napoleon. Parts I. to X. are now advertised
as ready for subscribers, in London, at three dollars and a half each.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW WORK ON AFRICA, by H. C. Grund, is advertised at Berlin.

       *       *       *       *       *

Almanacs for popular use, offer a means much used in France for the propagation of political,
social and religious doctrines. Every sect and party issues its Almanac, and some issue several,
crammed to the brim with the peculiar notions whose dissemination is wished for. One of the
most successful for the year 1851, is the Almanach des Opprimés (The Almanac of the Oppressed).
In fact, it is aimed wholly at the Society of Jesuits, whose history it exposes in the blackest
colors. It begins with the early life of Loyola, depicts his debaucheries, his ambition, the
religious mechanism invented by his enthusiastic and fanatical genius, the flexibility of his
morality, and goes on to give an account of the intrigues and crimes of his successors in various
countries and times, with an analysis of their books, their missions and their miracles. Another
of these publications is called the Almanach du Peuple, containing a very great variety of
articles of substantial value. Among the contributors are, F. Arago, Quinet, Charras, Carnot,
Girardin, George Sand, Pierre Leroux, Dumil Aeur, E. Lithe, Mazzini, and other republicans
distinguished in the political, literary and scientific world. This Almanac had the honor last
year of being seized by the Government, but on trial before a jury it was acquitted of the
charge against it, of being dangerous to society, and provoking citizens to hate the republic
and despise the authorities.

       *       *       *       *       *

A critic in the Allegemeine Zeitung, in noticing "Ottomar, a Romance from the Present Time,"
the last novel from the pen of Madame Von Zöllner, takes occasion to give some hard hits at
women's novels in general. "It always must and always will be a failure," he says, "when a
woman attempts to form a just conception of masculine character, and to put her conception
into language. Female writers always comb out smoothly the flaxen hair of their heroes, and
dress them up in the frockcoat of innocence. They go into raptures over a sort of green enthusiasm,
and a romantic fantasticality of virtue, such as we godless fellows are not guilty of possessing;
and in this way they turn out automatons which resemble nothing in earth, heaven, or elsewhere."
The critic however admits that Madame Zöllner, who is undoubtedly one of the best living German
novel writers, possesses remarkable and peculiar merits. No other woman occupies so high a
place with the German public, except it be Fanny Lewald. Madame Zöllner is praised for the
pure moral tone of her writings.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the most accomplished writers in France--M. DE CORMENIN--and one of the most spirituel
of that spirituel nation, said at Frankfort, "It is true that it is difficult to abolish war,
but it is far more difficult to abolish death; and yet if people would take the same pains
to avoid the one as they did to escape the other, they would certainly accomplish their object."

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the most ardent and vigorous writers of Young France, Alphonse Esquiros, has brought
out at Paris a new book called "The History of the Martyrs of Liberty." The author aims to
follow the development of liberty in humanity; to expose the tie which unites ancient and modern
society in historic solidarity; to determine the transformation of the doctrines, which, for
a century past, have invaded the religious world under the name of philosophy, political economy,
and socialism; to set forth the fertile sufferings which have brought about that double triumph
of liberty in ideas and in facts, namely Christianity and the French Revolution; to indicate
the questions yet undecided; and to call to their solution both the miseries of the laboring
classes and the lights of science.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whatever may be said of the more elaborate writings of GEORGE SAND, it is impossible for the
most scrupulous critic to deny or resist the charm of her smaller works, such as the "Mosaic
Workers," the "Devil's Love," and "Fadette." To these she has just added another, which is
spoken of with the utmost delight by all who have read it, as a work of remarkable genius.
It is intended for the use of children, and is called "The History of the veritable Gribonille."
The text is accompanied by richly engraved illustrations, designed by Mr. Maurice Sand, the
son, we believe, of the author. Why will not some American publisher give us a translation,
with the original illustrations?

       *       *       *       *       *

To the already immense literature of the French Revolution, we now have to signalize another
addition, which is worth the attention of those who are not weary of books relating to that
momentous epoch. It is a "Biography of Camille Desmoulins," by Ed. Fleury--an octavo volume,
lately issued at Paris. The author discusses the history of this famous pamphleteer and revolutionary
rhetorician, as an advocate defends a client before a jury.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HISTORY OF THE PRINCIPLES, INSTITUTIONS AND LAWS OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION, from 1789 to
1800, is an anti-revolutionary work of elaborate character, and decided ability, published
a few weeks since at Paris, by an anonymous author, who thinks he can do something toward getting
the world right by rolling back some of its more recent gyrations.

       *       *       *       *       *

A popular History of the French Revolution, from 1789 to 1799, written by HIPPOLITE MAGEN,
and lately published at Paris, in one volume, is having a great success among the laboring
classes of Paris and other French cities. It is of course in favor of the Montangards.

       *       *       *       *       *

A valuable manual for students of French history is M. LOUIS TRIPIER'S collection of French
Constitutions, since 1789, with the decrees of the Provisional Government of 1848. It has just
been issued by Cotillon, at Paris.

       *       *       *       *       *

MIRABEAU, the great revolutionist, is the subject of a new work just published at Vienna, from
the pen of Franz Ernst Pipitz, a native of that city, but now a teacher at the University of
Zurich. It is in great part the result of original investigations, and in many particulars
departs from the received biographies, while in others it casts a new light on facts previously
known. The critics of Vienna speak in the highest terms of it, as worthy to be named along
with the most brilliant French productions on the same subject. They are, however, bound to
say the best thing possible for a book by a Viennese author, since they have but few to rejoice in.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MEMOIRS OF MASSENA, which have for some time been in course of publication at Paris, are
at last completed, by the issue of the final volume, which contains the history of the campaign
of 1810-11, in Portugal. No complete account of this campaign has ever before been published.
The book also casts a great deal of light not merely on the history of the Marshal himself,
but on the wars of Napoleon in general. It is founded on documents left by Massena, which have
not before been published or consulted.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. COUSIN, who, after having exerted a more powerful influence in philosophy than any of his
contemporaries, (though this influence was, in a large degree, secondary in its character),
has recently been almost forgotten. We see by a paragraph in the Debats that he is collecting
and editing all his various writings upon the subject of education. They will fill several volumes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another tribute to the memory of LOUIS PHILIPPE, has just been offered by M. R. PAIGNON, who
has collected and published a volume of the deceased King's thoughts and opinions on matters
of State. This work exhibits the mental and political history of its subject in the best light,
and has the merit of being arranged with care and fidelity.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. FELIX PIGNORY, of the Commission despatched by the French Government, in search of the tomb
of Godfrey of Bouillon, has returned from Asia, and reports some curious discoveries relative
to the object of the mission.

       *       *       *       *       *

A new and enlarged edition of ZUINET'S Genie des Religions has appeared at Paris.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POLITICAL MAXIMS AND THE PRIVATE THOUGHTS OF FREDERICK THE GREAT is the title of a curious
piece in the last number of Frazer's Magazine. It is unique as a sample of kingcraft; and every
line supplies a proof of the candor, hypocrisy, unscrupulousness, sense of duty, courage, sensuality,
and intellect, of the great Prussian, to whom are partially due the literary merits or demerits
of the paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

The new edition of the POEMS OF ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING, contains besides many original
pieces, her translation of the "Prometheus Bound," of Æschylus, never hitherto published, although,
as she informs us, once privately circulated in another and less complete form. It bears no
mark of a woman's hand: it is rugged, massive, and sublime, as befits the grand old fate drama
which the genius of the Greek moulded out of the immortal agony of the beneficent Titan. From
the new poems we select the following exquisite love sonnets, from a series scarcely inferior
to those in which Shakspeare has given the history of his heart-life:

    "I lift my heavy heart up solemnly,
    As once Electra her sepulchral urn,
    And, looking in thine eyes, I overturn
    The ashes at thy feet. Behold and see
    What a great heap of grief lay hid in me,
    And how the red wild sparkles dimly burn
    Through the ashen grayness. If thy foot in scorn
    Could tread them out to darkness utterly,
    It might be well perhaps. But if instead
    Thou wait beside me for the wind to blow
    The gray dust up, ... those laurels on thine head,
    O my beloved, will not shield thee so,
    That none of all the fires shall scorch and shred
    The hair beneath. Stand further off, then! Go.

    "Go from me. Yet I feel that I shall stand
    Henceforward in thy shadow.

       *       *       *       *       *

The candidateship between Lord Palmerston and the historian Alison for the office of Lord Rector
of the University of Glasgow, resulted in a majority for the latter, on the gross poll, of
69. As, however, of the "four nations" into which the students were distributed, each of the
candidates had two, the election should have been decided by the vote of the present Rector,
Mr. Macaulay; but he declines the duty, and would not go to the university during the contest.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Official Gazette announces that "the Queen has been pleased to appoint ALFRED TENNYSON,
Esq., to be Poet Laureate in ordinary to her Majesty, in the room of William Wordsworth, Esq.,
deceased." There have been poorer poets than Tennyson among the laureates; but this appointment
does not and ought not to give much satisfaction. Mr. Tennyson had already a pension from the
government, and was in no need of the salary of this office, as one or two others, and as we
conceive, greater poets, are; and it had been hoped that the queen would appoint to the place
the greatest poet of her own sex who has lived in England--Elizabeth Barrett Browning.

       *       *       *       *       *

The original MS. of "WAVERLEY,"--wholly in the handwriting of Sir Walter Scott,--the same which
was sold in 1831 with the other MSS. of the series of novels and romances--has been presented
to the Advocates' Library at Edinburgh, by Mr. James Hall, brother of the late Capt. Basil
Hall. Several of the MSS. of Scott are in this country, having been sold here by Dr. Lardner,
soon after his arrival here with Mrs. Heavyside.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. HORACE MAYHEW, author of the metropolitan "Labor and the Poor" articles, has ceased to
write for the London Morning Chronicle, the conductors of that journal wishing him to suppress,
in his reports on the condition of the working classes, facts opposed to free trade. This appears
to be characteristic of the advocates of that side.

       *       *       *       *       *

D'ISRAELI has published an edition of his father's "Curiosities of Literature," with a "View
of the Character and Writings of the Author." He is now engaged upon a Life of Lord William
Bentinck, which he has undertaken at the request of the Duke of Portland. We do not think the
author of the "Wondrous Tale of Alroy" will do very well in history.

       *       *       *       *       *

The EARL OF CARLISLE has recently given two lectures before the Tradesmen's Benevolent Society
of Leeds, and the Mechanics' Institute of the same city, upon the Scenes, Institutions, and
Characteristics of the United States, which he visited when Lord Morpeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEIGH HUNT has probably done a foolish thing in again becoming an editor. He is too old. We
have, by the last steamer, "Leigh Hunt's Journal: a Miscellany for the Cultivation of the Memorable,
the Progressive, and the Beautiful"--certainly a characteristic title.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Posthumous work of JOSEPH BALMAS,--(the celebrated Spanish priest, whose book on Catholicism
and Protestantism has lately been translated, and published in Baltimore, and who perished
prematurely in 1848), has just been published. It is entitled Escritos Posthumos, Poesias Posthumos,
and contains prose and verse on science, literature, and politics.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Death of the late MRS. BELL MARTIN, at the Union Place Hotel, in this city, was briefly
noticed in the last number of the International. It appears from a statement in the London
Times that the vast estates known as the Connemara property, to which she had succeeded as
the daughter and heiress of the late Mr. Thomas Martin, of Ballinahinch Castle, in Galway,
was among the first brought into the new "Encumbered Estates Court," and has been for some
months advertised for sale. The Dublin Evening Mail has the following remarks upon the melancholy
history of Mrs. Martin, whose novel of "Julia Howard" must preserve for her a very distinguished
rank among the literary women, of our time:

     "The vicissitudes of life have seldom produced a sadder or more
     rapid reverse than that by which the fortunes of this excellent
     lady were darkened and overthrown. Born to a noble inheritance
     which extended over a territory far exceeding the domain of
     many a reigning German prince, her name was known throughout
     the United Kingdom as that of "the Irish heiress." Five years
     ago her expectancy was considered to be equivalent, over and
     above all encumbrances and liabilities, to a yearly income of
     5,000l. Before two years of the interval had elapsed she
     found herself at the head of her patrimonial estates, without a
     shilling that she could call her own. The failure of the potato
     crop, the famine and pestilence which followed, the scourging
     laws enacted and enforced by an ignorant Legislature to redress
     the calamity, and the claims of money-lenders, swept every inch
     of property from under her feet. Her hopes and her prospects
     were for ever blighted. Her projects for the improvement of the
     wild district over which she had reigned as a sort of native
     sovereign were at an end; and she went forth from the roof of
     her fathers as a wanderer, without a home, and, as it would
     almost appear, without a friend. Never was hard fate less
     deserved; for her untiring and active benevolence had been
     devoted from her childhood to the comfort and relief of those
     who suffered, and her powerful and original mind was
     incessantly employed in devising means of moral and physical
     amelioration in the condition of the tenantry on her father's
     estates. She gave up her whole time to such pursuits, avoiding
     the haunts of fashion and those amusements which might be
     considered suitable to her age and place, that she might
     perform the various duties of physician, almoner,
     schoolmistress, and agricultural instructor. Her almost daily
     habit was to visit the poor and the sick in the remote recesses
     of that wild region, sometimes on foot--more frequently in her
     little boat, well provided with medicaments and food, which she
     impelled by the vigor of her own arm through the lakes which
     stretch along the foot of the mountains. How grievous it is to
     reflect that she should so soon have been driven across the
     ocean in search of a place to lay her head. The American editor
     intimates that the object of her voyage was to collect
     materials for literary works. We have no doubt that such was
     among her projects; for she was a very distinguished writer,
     and would by no means eat the bread of idleness or dependence;
     but there is reason to believe that it was a more stringent
     compulsion which obliged her, at an advanced period of the
     year, and in a peculiarly delicate situation, when even
     peasants remain on shore, to encounter the tedium and perils of
     a voyage in a sailing vessel. We have heard, in fact, from a
     quarter which ought to be correctly informed, that she was
     proceeding to the residence of a near relative of her father,
     with the intention of remaining there till some favorable
     change might come over the color of her life."

       *       *       *       *       *

Our countrywoman, MRS. MOWATT, has revised and partially rewritten her novels of "The Fortune
Hunter," and "Evelyn, or the Heart Unmasked," and they have just been published in London.
The Athenæum says of them:

     "These tales give us a higher idea of Mrs. Mowatt's talents as
     an authoress, than her plays did. Taken in conjunction with
     those dramas, and with the pleasing powers as an actress
     displayed by the lady,--they not only establish a case of more
     than common versatility, but indicate that with labor and
     concentration, so gifted a person might have taken a high
     place, whether on the library shelf or on the stage. In another
     point of view, they are less agreeable. Alas, for those
     primitive souls, who with a perverse constancy may still wish
     to fancy America a vast New-England of simple manners and
     superior morals! The society which Mrs. Mowatt
     describes--whether in 'Evelyn,' which begins with a wedding out
     of Fleecer's boarding-house, or in 'The Fortune Hunter,' which
     opens with table-talk at Delmonico's--is as sophisticated as
     any society under which this wicked old world groans, and which
     our Sir E. Lytton and Mrs. Gore have satirized--or Balzac (to
     shame the French) has "shown up." Major Pendennis himself
     could hardly have produced anything more blasé in tone than
     some of the pictures of 'New-York Society' drawn by this
     American lady,--drawn, moreover, when the lady was young.
     Evelyn is married to a rich man, without her heart having any
     thing to say in the matter,--by a mother who is a superfine
     Mrs. Falcon:--and wretched mischief comes of it. Brainard,
     the fortune hunter, is a heartless and cynical illustration
     that a Broadway hunter can be as unblushingly mercenary, and as
     genteelly dishonorable as the veriest old Bond Street hack,
     bred up in the traditions of the Regency, who ever began life
     on nothing and a showy person--continued it on nothing and the
     reputation of fashion--and ended no one cares how or where.
     There are character, smartness and passion in both these
     tales--though a certain looseness of structure and
     incompleteness of style prevent us from being extreme in
     praising them, or from recommending them by quotation,--and
     though, as has been said, the tone and taste of the life which
     they describe must jar on the feelings of those who are
     unwilling to see the decrepitude of elderly civilization coming
     down upon a new country, ere its maturity has been reached--or
     even ere its youth has been sufficiently and steadily trained."

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. SOUTHWORTH, the authoress of "Retribution," "The Deserted Wife," &c., has a new novel
in the press of the Appletons, entitled "Shannondale." Mrs. Southworth is the most popular
of our female novelists, notwithstanding the doubtful morality of her works.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARLES MACKAY, who, two or three years ago, passed some months in New-York, and who is known
for his very candid and intelligent book upon the United States, entitled "The Western World,"
has gone to India, as an agent of the Manchester Chamber of Commerce, for the purpose of inquiring
into the state and prospects of Indian cotton cultivation. Mr. Mackay has had experience in
the collection of statistical information; he has lived long enough abroad to know that essential
differences sometimes lurk beneath external resemblances in the social arrangements of two
countries, and to be on his guard against the erroneous inferences to which ignorance of this
fact leads. He is naturally acute, energetic, and cautious. For the difficult task of investigating
and reporting upon the condition of an important branch of industry, and the circumstances
which are likely to promote or retard its progress among a community so different from the
English as that of India, he is probably as well fitted as any man who could have been selected.
The foundation of the British Indian empire and the establishment of the United States as an
independent nation, were contemporary events. The loss of her American colonies helped to concentrate
the attention and exertions of England upon her Indian dominions. The progress made by British
India since 1760, in civilization, material wealth, and intelligent enterprise, is barely perceptible;
while the United States have expanded from a few obscure colonies into a nation second only
to Great Britain in the value and extent of their commercial relations, second to none in intelligence
and successful enterprise. The Anglo-Norman inhabitants of the "Old Thirteen" provinces have
made the valley of the Mississippi, and the prairies beyond it, which little more than half
a century ago were mere wastes, the thronged abodes of a vigorous and wealthy European population.
They have done this without the aid of the aboriginal tribes, who have proved irreclaimably
addicted to their nomade habits. The Anglo-Normans who rule British India have had to deal
with a country thickly peopled with races far advanced in civilization, though of a peculiar
character; yet, in every respect, the results of their efforts lag far behind those visible
in America. To place the difference in a most striking point of view, it is only necessary
to contrast the cotton produce and the mercantile marine of British India with those of the
United States. There is actually a more fully-developed steam navigation between Panama and
California than between Bombay and China. The causes of these results are plain enough to us,
but to the English they are enigmas. The mission of Mr. Mackay will scarcely end in a revelation
of the truth, that liberty and independence have kept healthy the blood in the vigorous limbs
of the Americans, while trammels and vassalage have deadened the energies of the Indies; but
it may have an important influence upon the question whether the East India Company's charter
shall be renewed, and it certainly will develop much information interesting to the cotton-growers
of the United States.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. DE QUINCEY is one of the greatest of the elder race of literary men now living in Great
Britain, and we believe he is in no very affluent circumstances. The bestowal of a pension
by the Government upon Mr. James Bailey, an editor of the classics, residing at Cambridge,
on the ground of his "literary services," causes The Leader thus to refer to the author of
"The Opium Eater"--

     "Where is Thomas De Quincey's pension? Some may not regard him,
     as we do, the very greatest living master of the English
     language; some may think lightly of those fragmentary works and
     fugitive articles with which he has for more than thirty years
     enriched our literature; but, whatever may be the individual
     estimate of his services, one fact is patent, namely, that you
     cannot mention De Quincey in any circle of the British Islands,
     pretending to literary culture, but his name will sound
     familiar; in most it will awaken responses of gratitude for
     high pleasures bestowed, in none will it arouse indignation of
     high power to base uses. Now, this we call a clear case for
     national beneficence. He has done the state service, and they
     know it; but they will not reward it."

Apropos of pensions: Upon the whole, we have the best exchequer in the world, and to soldiers
we have evinced no special lack of liberality. To give five hundred dollars a year to Mr. Audubon,
R. H. Dana, Moses Stuart, Edward Robinson, H. R. Schoolcraft, James G. Percival, C. F. Hoffman,
and some half dozen others, would be something toward an "honorable discharge" of the country's
obligations in the premises, and probably no slight addition to the happiness of men who have
added much to the real glory of the nation, while it would cost less than a morning's useless
debate in Congress. In a recent letter to Lord Brougham, on a cognate subject, Savage Landor
exclaims:

     "Probably the time is not far distant when the arts and
     sciences, and even literary genius, may be deemed no less
     worthy of this distinction than the slaughter of a thousand
     men. But how, in the midst of our vast expenditure, spare so
     prodigious a sum as five hundred a year to six, and three
     hundred a year to six more!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A MR. CHUBB has published in London, in a small volume, a paper which he read before the Institution
of Civil Engineers, on the construction of locks and keys. It embraces a history of the lock
and key from the earliest ages, illustrated profusely with wood cuts. It forms an instructive
and entertaining essay; but we think Mr. Chubb might have learned something more of the subject
in the lock factories of Newark and this city.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. TICKNOR'S History of Spanish Literature has been translated into German, and is announced
for publication by Brockhaus.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. DICKEN'S "David Copperfield" is at length completed, and Mr. Wiley has published it in
two handsome volumes, profusely illustrated. There is a variety of opinions among the critics
as to its rank among the works of "Boz"; but it is not contended by any that it evinces a decay
of his extraordinary and peculiar genius. We copy a paragraph which strikes us as just, from
the Spectator:

     "This story has less of London life and town-bred character
     than most of its predecessors; but what may thus be gained in
     variety is lost in raciness, breadth, and effect. The peculiar
     classes forced into existence by the hotbed of a great city,
     and owing a part of their gusto to town usage, may be narrow
     enough if compared with general nature, but they are broader
     than the singularities whom Mr. Dickens copies or invents as
     representatives of genteel country life, or human nature in
     general. In the mere style there is frequently an
     improvement--less effort and greater ease, with occasional
     touches of the felicity of Goldsmith; but we should have
     thought the work was likely to be less popular than many of the
     previous tales of Mr. Dickens, as well as rather more open to
     unfavorable criticism. Any prose fiction that is to take rank
     in the first class, must have what in epic poetry is called a
     fable,--some lesson of life embodied in a story that combines
     the utile and the dulce. This fable should not only please the
     reader by its succession of coherent events, and by the variety
     of its persons and fortunes, but should touch by appeals to the
     common kinship of humanity, and teach worldly conduct of
     ethical lessons by particular incidents, as well as by the
     general development. And when this end is attained, whether by
     design or instinct, technical rules are readily forgotten; even
     the great rule of unity of action can be dispensed with. It
     does not appear that Mr. Dickens has the critical training
     necessary to feel the importance of this principle, or a
     knowledge of life sufficiently deep and extensive to enable him
     to embody it unconsciously, as a well-chosen story will always
     compel an author to do. So far as David Copperfield appears
     designed with any other object than as a vehicle for writing a
     number of sketches, it would seem intended to trace the London
     career of an inexperienced young man, with infirmity of
     purpose, a dangerous friend, and no very experienced advisers.
     Any purpose of this kind is only prosecuted by snatches; "the
     theme" is constantly deserted, and matters are introduced that
     have no connection with the hero further than his being present
     at them, or their occurring to his acquaintance. In fact, from
     the time that David Copperfield emerges from boyhood, the
     interest in his adventures ceases, beyond that sort of
     feeling which many readers entertain of wishing to know 'how it
     ends.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. DAVID DUDLEY FIELD, of this city, one of the three commissioners who prepared the amended
Code of the State of New-York, abolishing the distinction in procedure between law and equity,
being in England for a brief visit, was invited by the leading members of the Law Amendment
Society to give some account of the great changes effected here in the administration of justice.
He complied, and a meeting of the Society was summoned specially to hear him. The result is
much remarked upon in nearly all the London journals. Mr. Field is a clear headed man, master
of his subject, perspicuous in his rhetoric, and distinct in his elocution, so that our new
constitution was most advantageously displayed before his learned and critical hearers. The
Spectator says of the subject:

     "The visit of Mr. Dudley Field to England, and his interesting
     statements to the members of our Law Amendment Society, are
     real events in the progress of law reform in this country. The
     injustice which the English people submit to in the revered
     name of Law, and in the sacred but in their case profaned name
     of Equity, is more enormous than the future historian will be
     able remotely to conceive. The keystone of the barbarous Gothic
     portal to Justice in our common-law procedure was struck out
     some twenty years ago, when the logical forms of legal contest
     were reduced to their now moderate number; other heavy blows
     have further undermined the ruin, and almost cleared away
     whatever was feudal in that portion of the edifice; and then
     came the raising of the new and noble portal of the County
     Courts. Still, in all but the most trivial litigation the delay
     and expense are such that justice can only be had at a
     percentage utterly disgraceful to a nation either honest or
     merely clearheaded and commercial. We still preserve a
     diversity of tribunals, to administer laws that ought not to be
     inharmonious; and we are prevented from making the laws
     harmonious by the difficulties of finding tribunals able to
     rule the concord and administer the whole field of law as a
     single empire. In this case, as in a multitude of others, our
     young relations across the Atlantic have done that which we
     only longed to do. In this rivalry of nations, far above all
     other rivalries, they have pushed development of institutions
     which they received from forefathers common to us both, to a
     more rapid perfection than we. Mr. Dudley Field is one of three
     men who framed a constitutional law for the State of New York,
     under which the courts of legal and equitable jurisdiction have
     been successfully merged; the enactment has succeeded in
     practical working; and the spectacle of "Equity swallowing up
     Law" has been so edifying to the citizens of his State, that
     three other States of the Union have resolved to enact, and
     four further States have appointed conferences to deliberate
     upon, a similar procedure. It is impossible--however
     narrow-minded lawyers may object--that what Americans find
     practicable and beneficial should be either impracticable or
     disadvantageous to Englishmen."

       *       *       *       *       *

A second part of the "Historical Collections of Louisiana," by B. F. French, has been published
by Mr. Putnam. It contains some interesting papers, among which are translations of an original
letter of Hernando de Soto, on the Conquest of Florida, of a brief account of de Soto's memorable
expedition to Florida, from a recently discovered manuscript by a writer named Biedma, and
Hackluyt's translation of the longer narrative "by a gentleman of Elvas." It is to be followed,
we understand, by a second volume.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELIHU BURRITT is one of those people who are filled with the comfortable assurance of their
own greatness. He seems always to regard the mob of men as very diminutive creatures, while
his introverted glances are through a lens which reveals a character of qualities and proportions
the most extraordinary. This is unfortunate. It renders Mr. Elihu Burritt, par excellence,
the bore of his generation. He is really a person of very small abilities; of very little information,
considering the opportunities presented by his travels; and the "learned blacksmith" has no
learning at all. He had, indeed, an unusual facility in acquiring words, but he knows nothing
of languages; not having in any a particle of scholarship; of the philosophy, even of his mother
tongue, being as ignorant as the bellows-hand in his smithy at Worcester. But because of this
not uncommon faculty of acquiring words--acquiring them as Zerah Colburn did a certain mastery
of figures, without being able to comprehend any principle of mathematics--Mr. Everett, or
some one else, advertised him as "learned," and ever since he has neglected his fit vocation
to crowd himself into conspicuous places, all over Christendom; to blow continually his penny
whistle in the ears of the little people called philanthropists; to speak and write in addresses
and letters immense aggregations of ambitious platitudes, to pontiffs, emperors, kings, parliaments,
etc., respecting their particular affairs, all of which addresses and letters are as cogent
as the barkings sent by a lap-dog toward the moon, and receive from all sorts of people, except
diminutives and impertinents whose profession is "philanthropy," just about as much consideration
as Dian yields to the fast-yelping cur. It is all unfortunate, for poor Elihu Burritt will
never be persuaded that he is a subject of derision only, instead of admiration; that men pause
to regard him as a miracle of conceit and assurance rather than as a prophet; and that his
commonplaces about "olive leaves," "calumets," "universal brotherhood," "fatherland," etc.,
have no more influence than the maudlin rigmarole of the madman whose preternatural force is
lost in senility. It is time for Elihu Burritt to go back to his shop: the world wants a new fool.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN MILLS, remembered by some unfortunate New-Yorkers as John St. Hugh Mills, has written
half a dozen tolerable novels since he went home, and he is now publishing, in the United Service
Magazine, a series of papers illustrative of his American travels, in which he illustrates
his knowledge and veracity by certain anecdotes, which are described as having occurred on
"the western prairies of Louisiana."

       *       *       *       *       *

PRESIDENT HITCHCOCK, of Amherst College, who is capable of a very conclusive treatment of the
subject, has in the press of Philips & Sampson, a work on the connection of Geology and Religion.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. LATHAM'S very important work on the "Varieties of Man," we are glad to hear is to be republished
by the Appletons. Though much less voluminous than the work of Pritchard, and therefore less
particular generally in its illustrations, it may be regarded as decidedly the most masterly
and satisfactory production that has yet appeared in ethnology. The prospect of its republication
affords us the more satisfaction, because the superficial and flippant infidelity of Dr. Robert
Knox has been reproduced here by a respectable publishing house, and widely diffused. The "Races
of Man," by Dr. Knox, is what is called a clever book; the Yankees might style it "smart;"
but it is no more entitled to consideration as an exhibition of scholarship, intellectual strength,
or fairness, than the rigmarole of the Millerite or the Mormon.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HOMOEOPATHIC REVIEW AND QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF MEDICAL SCIENCE, is a new periodical, commencing
with the year, of which the general character is indicated by the title. It is edited by Dr.
Marcy, author of "The Homoeopathic Theory and Practice," one of the most eminent scholars and
successful practitioners of the new school; Dr. Herring, of Philadelphia, whose name is familiar
to the students of German literature and science, and who was one of the most trusted friends
of Hahnemann; and Dr. Metcalfe, who has been known as an able lawyer and ingenious critic,
and who is regarded as a very accomplished physician. Under such direction, the Homoeopathic
Review can hardly fail of success. It will certainly, we think, commend the doctrines of the
Hahnemannists to the favorable consideration of all thoughtful readers, and compel those who
have been accustomed to deride the new principles to a courteous treatment of them. Mr. Radde
is the publisher.

       *       *       *       *       *

The cheapness of good books and good editions is one of the wonders of our time. American publishers
have done much toward bringing literature into the homes of the poor, but the cheap books manufactured
in this country have, for the most part, been badly printed, and in every respect so wretchedly
put together, that they were hardly worth preserving after a first reading. The English are
now competing vigorously for the popular market here, and mainly, through the house of Bangs
& Brother of this city. Bohn and other great London publishers are supplying us with well printed,
well bound, and excellently illustrated books, at prices altogether lower than those for which
the American manufacturers have offered or can afford them. To sell such a book as Lodge's
Portrait Gallery, in eight volumes, with all its finely engraved heads, for ten dollars, one
must have the world for a market; and so with the long list of important writings in the compactly
but correctly and elegantly printed volumes of Bohn's Standard Library--the best and cheapest
popular series ever issued in any country.

       *       *       *       *       *

Many very correct writers are very poor authors, and there are abundance of good books with
imperfect rhetoric; yet we have a right to ask some attention to the details of style in a
literary critic. Professor Henry Reed has a delicate appreciation in poetry, but his remarks
are nearly always marred by verbal infelicities incompatible with a knowledge of literary art.
Thus, within a few pages of his Memoir of Gray, just published, he says of Jacob Bryant, who
has been dead a century, that "he has recorded;" that "Gray retained a high admiration of Dryden's
poetry, as was strongly expressed," &c.; that an ode published in 1747, "being the first publication
of his English verse" (meaning his first publication in English verse); that Gray could not
"break through the circumspection of so contracted a system of metaphysics as that of Locke's;"
that "it is apparent from what Gray has done" (as if Gray were now living, or present), &c.
&c. &c. &c. &c., all through every thing he publishes. Such things in a professor of mathematics
would attract no attention, but they will be observed in a "Professor of English Literature."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. BANCROFT is not, as we were led by some newspaper to state in the International, engaged
in printing his History of the Revolution; and when he does give it to the press, it is by
no means likely that he will have to leave New-York to find a publisher for it. The History
of the Colonization of America--introductory to the History of the United States--has secured
for Mr. Bancroft a place among the greatest historians; he has now the assurance that he is
writing for other ages; and he will not endanger his fame, nor fail of the utmost perfection
in his work, for any needless haste. This second part of his History will probably occupy five
volumes; and although the story has been written by many hands, with more or less fulness and
various degrees of justice, Mr. Bancroft will have studied it from beginning to end in the
original materials, of which his collection is by far the best that has ever been made. If
upon this field any one successfully competes with him for the historic wreath, he must come
after him, and be guided by his light.

       *       *       *       *       *

HENRY R. SCHOOLCRAFT, LL. D., is occupied, as his official duties permit, in the composition
of memoirs of his long and honorably distinguished life. His great work upon the History and
Condition of the Indians, now in press, and to be published in some half-dozen splendid quarto
volumes by Lippencott, Grambo & Co., of Philadelphia, will contain the fruits of his observations
in that department which he has made so peculiarly his own, and upon which he will always be
the chief and highest authority; but his personal adventures, and his reminiscences of his
contemporaries, will form the subject of this additional performance.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON, the father of the Protestant Episcopal Church in Connecticut, and the first
President of King's College, now Columbia College, in New-York, was one of the most interesting
characters in our social history. His abilities, learning, activity, and influence, entitle
him to be ranked in the class of Franklin (who was his friend and correspondent, and who printed,
at his press in Philadelphia, several of his works), as a promoter of the highest civilization
in the colonies. Except the Memoirs of Franklin, we have hitherto had no more attractive specimen
of biography than the book known as Dr. Chandler's Life of Dr. Johnson. Franklin's Memoirs,
it is well known, never came before the public in the form in which they were written, until
a few years ago, and it has lately been discovered that Dr. Johnson's had suffered a similar
disadvantage. Dr. Johnson amused himself in his old age by writing recollections of his life
and times, which, after his death, were placed in the hands of Dr. Chandler, who changed them
from the first to the third person, omitted many particulars which he did not deem it expedient
to publish, and added others which the modesty of Dr. Johnson had not allowed him to write.
The book thus made by Dr. Chandler was printed by his son-in-law, the late Bishop Hobart, who
probably was not aware of its origin. But Dr. Johnson's MS. has now been discovered, and it
will immediately be given to the public, under the supervision of the Rev. Mr. Pitkin, of Connecticut,
who is adding to it many notes and illustrative documents. It is very much to be regretted
that so little of the extensive correspondence of Dr. Johnson with the chief persons of his
time in the literary and the religious world abroad, has been preserved; but the book will
contain numerous letters by his more eminent contemporaries which have not appeared elsewhere.

       *       *       *       *       *

Somebody has made the "discovery" that General Charles Lee, of the revolutionary army, was
not unwilling to be considered the author of "Junius;" and two or three of our contemporaries
have been busy with the subject of the internal and other evidence in the case. These critics
are about as wise as the editor of an evening paper who published one of the old Washington
forgeries, lately, as an important historical document. It was "characteristic," that the chief
wrote so familiarly to his wife of affairs! In the same way, the history of the Book of Mormon
(originally composed as a religious novel by the Rev. Solomon Spaulding), appears as a curious
and altogether new exposure! We shall not be surprised if the same journals advise us that
Walter Scott wrote the Waverley Novels.

       *       *       *       *       *

EMILIE GIRARDIN has a new book L'Abolition de la Misére, in which he proposes the entire abolition
of suffering. He has "found the philosopher's stone."

       *       *       *       *       *

Somebody is writing for the United Service, "Reminiscences of a Voyage to Canada," and we have
looked into a couple of his chapters to see what sort of stuff, respecting America, is thus
submitted to the officers of her Majesty's Army and Navy. The style of a fellow who talks of
his "fellow countrymen" (not meaning, as the words do, persons who live with him in rural neighborhoods),
is scarcely deserving of criticism; but the silliness of the falsehoods of this latest English
traveller among us, may be referred to as illustrating the causes of the common prejudices
in England against the United States. After describing his arrival at the Tremont House, in
Boston, he says:

     "A clerk [meaning our old friend Parker], dressed in the height
     of fashion, presided at the bar [meaning the office] at which
     we applied for rooms, wherein to perform our duties of the
     toilet. The one to which I was directed contained several beds
     without curtains, from which the occupants had evidently but a
     short time previously taken their departure. This was however a
     matter of indifference, as I imagined the apartment would have
     been entirely at my own disposal. In the course of a few
     minutes however, the door was opened, and in walked an
     individual, who, depositing a small carpet bag on the floor,
     commenced operations of a similar nature to those I myself was
     engaged in--not a word was at first exchanged between us; he
     eyed me critically, I returned the compliment, till at length I
     was favored with 'Stranger, I guess you are from Europe' (a
     strong accent on the last syllable), immediately followed by
     questions as to where I was going, what was my business, &c.
     This was somewhat amusing, so I informed my gentleman I was
     journeying to New-York, whereupon he told me I should see an
     'almighty fine city.' His curiosity being next attracted by my
     portmanteau, which was lying open on a chair, he strode up and
     peered into it most attentively. Thinking I might as well
     follow his example, I did the same by his carpet bag; whereupon
     giving a grunt of dissatisfaction, he collected his valuables
     and soon after took himself off."

Thirty years ago, the Duke of Saxe Weimar published a western story of a coachman who said,
"I am the gentleman what's to drive you." Our very original United Service tourist tells of
a visit to Mount Auburn, and adds:

     "Whilst driving back to the hotel I happened to remark, 'That
     is the man who drove us from the steamer in the morning.'
     Upon which 'Jehu' quickly replied, 'I reckon I'm the
     gentleman that drove you.' This information was received on
     our part with all the respect due to the elevated rank of our
     charioteer."

In a paragraph about luggage:

     "The American trunk is a ponderous solid affair made of wood,
     secured with braces of iron, studded with brass or iron nails,
     and usually having the name or initials of the owner, and
     frequently the state of which he is a native, painted on it in
     large white letters. Owing to this custom, the traveller is
     liable to be addressed by any peculiarity appertaining to his
     trunk being affixed thereto. Thus a gentleman passing through
     the states, found himself designated as 'Mr. Air Tight,'
     because this simple term was marked on the outside of a
     tin-box, and no affirmations on his part could induce the
     bystanders to believe to the contrary. They 'reckoned it was on
     his box,' and that was sufficient."

Of the personal appearance of the Americans:

     "To a stranger newly arrived from England, the absence of fresh
     complexions and of bright and cheerful faces among the male
     part of the creation is very striking. They are gaunt, sallow,
     cadaverous looking creatures; their general, far from
     prepossessing, appearance, in no way improved by the habit of
     wearing long, straight hair, combed entirely off the face, the
     bare throat, the never absent 'quid,' and that abominably nasty
     habit of constant expectoration."

And this trash is from one of the most reputable periodicals published in London--the one of
all most especially addressed to gentlemen.

In the next number of his "Reminiscences" the author promises a sketch of the city of New-York,
for which his authority will probably be Mrs. Trolloppe, Mr. Joseph Miller, and the last pick-pocket
who went home to London.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Peace Congress," in which we have most faith--the only one that is likely to exert any
very desirable influence, is that to assemble next year in Hyde Park. This will be a display
of works rather than one of words; and apropos of its lingual character, which will show very
conclusively that as yet "all the nations of the earth" are not "as one people," we find in
The Leader this paragraph:

"The Exhibition of 1851, seems to promise a whole literature of its own. Journals are already
established for the record of its proceedings. Useful information will be at a premium--unless
there should happen to be a "glut;" while in the shape of translations and dialogue-books,
every facility will be offered to foreigners. What a Babel it will be! How the English ear
will be rasped by Slavonic and Teutonic gutturals, or distended by the breadth of Southern
vowels. It will be a marvel if this incursion of barbarians do not very much affect the purity
of our own tongue, and damage the tender susceptibility of the London ear, already so delicate
that when an actor says--as it sometimes happens--"Donnar Elvirar is coming," the whole audience
rises in a mass to protest against the outrages on taste. We are told the Athenians were also
merciless critics in such matters. Nay, there is a famous anecdote perpetually cited as an
illustration of Athenian delicacy in matters of pronunciation, that Theophrastus was known
to be a foreigner even by a herbseller. People who wonder at every thing recorded of the Greeks,
will regard us probably as reckless iconoclasts if we break that by a stone flung from common
sense; but really, with the daily experience of Scotchmen and Irishmen before us, we must say
the most wonderful part of the anecdote is, that it should have been recorded. Theophrastus
came from Lesbos--if we remember rightly--and his pronunciation, therefore, naturally preserved
some of the Lesbian flavor, as Carlyle's does that of Annandale. Would any critic compliment
the cockney on delicacy of ear because it detects the accent of Carlyle, or Sheridan Knowles,
to be other than its own true London accent? Yet, this is precisely what critics do with respect
to the Athenians."

       *       *       *       *       *

MILTON, BURKE, MAZZINI, and DANIEL WEBSTER, present the most extraordinary examples of the
harmonious and effective combination of political and literary genius, that have appeared in
modern times. There have been and there are now many politicians who are eminent as authors:
but these are preëminently great in both statesmanship and letters. Mazzini is now the chief
apostle of republicanism in Europe, as Milton was in the time of the Protector. He devises
and executes the schemes which promise advances of liberty and happiness, and he is equal to
the defence with the pen of every thing he essays in affairs. "Young Italy," since it was put
down by French bayonets, has had as little quarter from parasite writers as from patristic
governors; but Mazzini has come to her defence with as vigorous a pen as that with which Milton
vindicated the people of England against the hireling Salmasius, under similar circumstances.
In another part of this number of the International, we have copied from the London Examiner
a reviewal of Mazzini's work on the Italian revolution. We should be glad to see it criticised
by Mr. Walsh also, or by Professor Bowen, in his North American Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

Since SIR FRANCIS HEAD went home from Canada, and finished the last edition of his "Bubbles"
and "Travels," and the funny anathema of poor Mr. William Lyon Mackenzie, in the Times, he
has been very quiet, except now and then, when he has given an explosive and amusing paper
in the Quarterly. But now he has published a new book, on "The Defenceless State of Great Britain,"
in which, the Examiner says "he has made up for lost time." Says the critic, "It is calculated
to rouse all the old women in the country. Such a fee-fa-fum of a book we never read. The Duke's
letter to Sir John Burgoyne was nothing to it, and it beats even Lord Ellesmere hollow." The
baronet thinks every thing portends a French invasion, and he advocates the largest "war footing."

       *       *       *       *       *

The REV. DR. BLOOMFIELD, whose edition of the Greek Testament is so well known in this country,
has just published two volumes of additional Notes, critical, philological, and explanatory,
in fulfilment of a promise made in the third edition of his New Testament, in 1839. This promise
was, that he would make no further change in the notes to the New Testament, but reserve all
additions for a separate supplementary work. That work, after the direct labor of eleven years,
is now published; forming a companion to all the editions of Bloomfield's Greek Testament except
the first two. The annotations relate to a critical examination of the readings of the text,
with the reasons for that selected, philological notes on the meaning of words, and exegetical
annotations on the verbal interpretations of passages.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. COOPER has a new book in press which, in New-York, will produce a profounder sensation,
than any he has yet written. It is entitled "The Men of Manhattan," and reveals the social
condition of the city, past and present, as it is known only to the author of "The Littlepage
Manuscripts." Mr. Cooper is a thorough New-Yorker; he is intimately acquainted with all the
sources of her past and present and prospective greatness; and he has watched, with such emotions
as none but a gentleman of the old school can feel, the infusion and gradual diffusion of those
principles of plebeianism and ruffianism, from discontented improvidence, immigration, and
other causes, which threaten to destroy whatever has justified the wisest pride; and to sink--not
raise--all the mob of people to a common level. He has his whims, and though they have won
for him little popularity, we regret that they are not shared more largely by the public, which
will never appreciate his merits as a censor, until the best features of our civilization are
quite obliterated.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. JUDD, the author of "Margaret," an original, indigenous, striking, and in many respects
brilliant New-England story, and of "Philo," a crude, extravagant, ridiculous mass of versified
verbiage, has lately published (through Phillips & Sampson, of Boston,) a new work entitled
"Richard Edney, or the Governor's Family; a Rus-Urban Tale, simple and popular, yet cultured
and noble, of morals, sentiment and life." It is worthy of the author of "Margaret." Though
it evinces very little of the constructive faculty, it illustrates in every page a quick and
intelligent observation, a happy talent for characterization, and great independence in speculation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. C. P. CASTANIS, formerly known in this country as an agreeable lecturer upon various subjects
connected with Modern Greece, has just published (through Lippencott, Grambo & Co., of Philadelphia),
a narrative of his captivity and escape during the massacre by the Turks on the Island of Scio,
together with various adventures in Greece and America.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. E. G. SQUIER, whose large work upon American antiquities, published by the Smithsonian
Institute, made for him a most desirable reputation, is now engaged in the preparation of an
elaborate work upon the remains of ancient civilization in Central America, to contain the
results of investigations during his recent official residence there.

       *       *       *       *       *

NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE'S new work, "The House of Seven Gables," is in the press of Ticknor, Reed
& Fields, of Boston.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS FENIMORE COOPER, whose beautiful work entitled "Rural Hours in America" has been so much
and so justly applauded, has a new volume in the press of Putnam.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the new novel of "Olive," republished by the Harpers, (which is much
praised by the London critics), the heroine, who has a lofty, noble
nature, full of poetic feeling and enthusiasm for art, determines to
devote herself to its study, urged on by a desire of liquidating a debt
contracted by her father. Instead of life's sweetness, she has
     before her life's greatness. The struggle passed, her genius
     may lift itself upward, expand and grow mighty; never so mighty
     as man's, but still great and glorious. Then, even while she
     walks over the world's rough pathway, heaven's glory may rest
     upon her up-turned brow, and she may become a light unto her
     generation."

       *       *       *       *       *

DAUTZENBERG, a Flemish poet, has issued at Brussels a volume of small compositions, which,
apart from freshness of fancy and beauty of thought, are remarkable for the correctness and
smoothness of their form. The Flemish tongue is used by him with a lyrical success that would
reflect honor on a writer in the more melodious dialects of Southern Europe. He has also licked
that jaw-cracking tongue so far into shape, that it serves for regular hexameters.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS STRICKLAND'S LIVES OF THE QUEENS OF ENGLAND, republished by Lea & Blanchard of Philadelphia,
in ten or twelve volumes, is a work of very great interest and value, for its illustrations
of the higher and progressive British civilization. Her Lives of the Queens of Scotland, soon
to be issued from the press of the Harpers, resembles generally her former work, by the success
of which it was probably suggested, as much as by the desirableness of the biographies of the
Northern Queens, as "adjuncts" to the lives of those of England. A good deal of matter was
collected in reference to the later Queens of Scotland during the biographer's researches for
the Queens of England; and this, augmented by further inquiries among public and private archives,
especially among the muniment-chests of noble Scottish families, forms the materials of the
present undertaking. The "lives" do not begin till the Tudor times, when the nearer relationship
with England imparts a greater interest to the subject, not only from the closer communication
between the courts, but from the prospects of the Scottish succession to the English crown.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN S. DWIGHT, of Boston, has recently delivered an admirable lecture before the Mercantile
Library Association of this city, on "Operatic Music," illustrated by a critical examination
of Rossini's Don Giovanni. Mr. Dwight's rare musical learning and accomplishments, his exquisite
taste in art, and his remarkable felicity of expression, were displayed to singular advantage
in this masterly lecture, and won the cordial applauses of the most appreciative critics in
his large and highly intelligent audience.

       *       *       *       *       *

A History of the Greek Revolution is soon to be given to the public by Baron PROKESH OSTEN,
who for many years was Austrian ambassador at Athens, and who now fills the same office at
Berlin. Of course his book will be published at Vienna.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW EDITION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF GÖETHE, in thirty volumes (it would look much better
and be far more convenient in fifteen), is advertised in Berlin. Two volumes are ready, and
the whole are to be issued before the close of 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

W. G. SIMMS, LL. D., is referred to in the Southern Literary Gazette as having delivered in
Charleston lately an elaborate poem entitled "The City of the Silent," on the occasion of the
consecration of a beautiful rural cemetery near that city.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES is writing a biographical sketch of the late Dr. Parkman, to form
a part of a work called "The Benefactors of the Medical School of Harvard University," of which
the poet is himself one of the professors.

       *       *       *       *       *

PIERRE DUPONT, the Parisian Socialist poet, has lately issued a new book containing six songs
that have not before been published. Dupont is as much a favorite with the people as Beranger,
and though he does not equal the latter in originality of fancy and gayety of spirit, he even
excels him in revolutionary point and enthusiasm. His songs are heard in every workshop and
at every popular banquet, their words and music are universally familiar, and when the clubs
were permitted, each meeting was opened and closed with a song of Dupont's, the whole audience
joining in the chorus. This was done instinctively and without previous arrangement. It often
happened, too, that after some orator had delivered an ardent speech, Dupont would appear at
the tribune with a new song which he had composed on the inspiration of the moment. Now each
new political event is sure of a response from this poet; one of his late productions is the
Chant du Vote (vote song), in which he denounces the attempt of the Government to destroy universal
suffrage. Perhaps his most powerful production is the Marsellaise of Hunger; the hold this
has taken on the public may be judged from the fact, that when at the theatre of the Porte
St. Martin a piece was performed, called Misery, founded on incidents in the Irish famine,
when the curtain went down at the end of the first act, the beholders spontaneously set up
this song. So in the same theatre, when the piece representing the downfall of Rome was performed
(this piece afterwards became famous through its prohibition by the Government), one of the
spectators in the pit began the chorus of Dupont's Soldier's Song:

    "Les peuples sont pour nous des freres
    Et les tyrans des ennemis,"

the whole house joined in, and the performance had to be interrupted till the song was ended.
The Chant des Transportés wherever it is heard moves the people to tears and indignation. The
Peasant's Song prophecies the time when independent industry shall render the earth blooming
with fertility, and the corn and wine shall "be free as warmth in summer weather." While the
majority of his poems are political and social, some of them are full of love and appreciation
of outward nature. In one, the Romance of the Poplar, this sentiment is finely combined with
the spirit of liberty.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARAGO'S great work, which was some time since announced in the International, is now nearly
complete and will soon be given to the public. The scientific and literary world of Europe
expect it with impatience. It is said even that Alexander von Humboldt intends to be its translator
into German, but this is not probable. It is also rumored that the author gives an appendix
in which he for the moment abandons science for politics, in order to pay off some of the attacks
he has suffered from Proudhon. Our own opinion is that he had better stick to his trade and
leave Proudhon alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARLES SUMNER has published (through Ticknor, Reed & Fields of Boston,) two volumes of his
"Orations and Addresses." Mr. Sumner is a scholar of the finest and rarest capacities and accomplishments.
He is of the school of Everett, but has more earnestness, and consequently more compactness
of expression, and more force. He enters heartily into all the 'progressive' movements of the
day, and is of many the intellectual leader. His bravery is equal to every emergency into which
he may be led by a search after truth, and to all combats he brings arms of the truest metal
and most exquisite polish. There are in New-England many more fervid and powerful orators,
but we know of none whose orations are delivered with a more pleasing eloquence. We have not
leisure now to review Mr. Sumner's volumes; but if among our readers there are any who desire
to see displayed the "very form and spirit" of the new age, we commend them to "The True Grandeur
of Nations," and the other discourses, speeches, and essays, here published.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE MANHATTANER IN NEW-ORLEANS" is the title of a small volume, from the press of J. S. Redfield,
which was written by an accomplished New-York lawyer who had resided some time in the Crescent
City. It is a very graphic and delightful picture of the social life of the metropolis of the
South; betraying a quick insight, a genial appreciation of what is manly, and fairness in regard
to every thing. We have had need of such a book, for hitherto we northerners have generally
known less of our southern neighbors than even Professor Bowen knew of the Hungarians, before
Mrs. Putnam enlightened him. We are sorry that Mr. Hall, to whom we are indebted for "The Manhattaner
in New-Orleans," intimates that it is the last book for the preparation of which he will ever
have withdrawn his attention from the law.

       *       *       *       *       *

"ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING, MARGARET FULLER D'OSSOLI AND GEORGE SAND," is the title of an
article in which the characters and genius of these three remarkable women is discussed, in
the last number of The Palladium, a new English monthly.

       *       *       *       *       *

IKE MARVEL'S "Reveries of a Bachelor," (printed by Baker & Scribner), appears to be the "book
of the season." All the critics praise it as one of the choicest specimens of half-romance
and half-essay, that has appeared in our time. But for ourselves--we have not read it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The subject of "Junius" is again discussed in "Junius and his Works, Compared with the character
and Writings of the Earl of Chesterfield," by W. Cramp, just published in London.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARKE GODWIN'S beautiful story of "Vala," suggested by the career of Jenny Lind, has been issued
in a luxurious quarto, by Putnam.

The Fine Arts.

GIFT FROM THE BAVARIAN ARTISTS TO KING LOUIS.--The artists and artisans of Munich have combined
to make to ex-King Louis of Bavaria a gift such as monarchs have not often received. It consists
of a writing-desk and album. The desk is of oak varnished, adorned with rich carving, and with
locks and the Bavarian arms in gilt bronze enamel. The carving contains the most charming figures
representing the various arts and trades. The album is bound in crimson velvet, the clasps
and ornaments of gilt bronze. On the outside is a medallion, designed by Widnmann, set in brilliants,
representing King Louis surrounded by artists. A smaller medallion stands in each corner, one
representing architects with plans and models by Hautman; sculptors and bronze workers with
the statue of Bavaria, by Halbig; historic painters by Esseling; and landscape and genre painters
by Widnmann. Between the two upper medallions is a rich ornament with the arms of the four
tribes of Bavaria in enamel, and the inscription "Louis I. King of Bavaria:" between the lower
medallions is a similar ornament with "The German Artists, A. D. 1850." All the ornaments are
in the old German style of the fifteenth century. In the Album are 177 sheets, each containing
a contribution from some artist. The title-page is by Esseling. Kaulbach has a drawing of unusual
freshness and beauty, representing the King calling to new life, at Rome, the neglected art
of Germany. But we have not space to speak of the works of individual artists in this remarkable
collection. It is enough to say that every distinguished painter and sculptor in Germany is
represented in it.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARLES EASTLAKE has been chosen President of the Royal Academy, and the Queen has made him
a knight. Sir Charles Eastlake is in some respects a great painter, and he has produced many
works which evince very remarkable talents. Among the few pictures by him which evince genius,
is that owned by Mr. Henry Carey Baird, of Philadelphia, of "Hagar and Ishmael." He has done
something in literature, and from his own account of himself we quote, that, like Haydon, he
was born at Plymouth, a soil congenial to art, for in its environs was also the birth-place
of Sir Joshua Reynolds. Like Rembrandt, Reynolds, and so many before them, Eastlake showed
an early aversion to the Latin Grammar. He fled the Charter-house school; and a glimpse of
Haydon's picture of "The Dentatus," which was at that period exhibited at Plymouth, made him
a painter. After studying in the Academy two years, under Fuseli, he produced "The Raising
of Jairus's Daughter." This won him a patron, in Mr. Harman, by whom he was commissioned to
make studies of the miracles of art, at that time collected in the Louvre by Napoleon. Here
also Lawrence, Haydon, Wilkie, and we believe Allston also, came at this time to study. In
the Louvre Eastlake made his first acquaintance with the wonders of Roman art. But the pleasant
task of copying these old masters was relinquished on the sudden return of Napoleon from Elba.
At a not much later period, the fallen hero became himself the subject of his pencil. Eastlake
made a sketch of the ex-Emperor as he appeared from the gangway of the Bellerophon, when at
anchor in Plymouth roads, interesting as the last delineation of a noble visage, then untinged
with chagrin. In 1817 and 1819 he visited Italy and Greece, rather stirring up their living
treasures than measuring antiquity with the inch rule of the archæologist. Nor yet did Eastlake
confine himself to the external forms of art and nature; he then laid the foundation of that
intimate knowledge of the arts, be they called formative, architectural, plastic, or pictorial,
the able elucidation of which renders his writings so valuable. Thus, whilst all the technical
skill of ancient colorists is found in his style of painting, all the principles on which Dutch
and Venetian masters proceeded are found in his writings. Those who reflect on the unceasing
labors of the Secretary of the Fine Art Commission, will be rather inclined to believe that
the title of President was alone wanting to render Eastlake the legitimate leader of art in
England. We need only mention his translation of Göethe's "Theory of Colors," the "Notes to
Kugler," and the "Materials for a History of Oil Painting."

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW PICTURE BY KAULBACH. The King of Bavaria has ordered from Kaulbach a picture some twenty
feet high, to represent the Apotheosis of a Good Prince. The lucky potentate is to be painted
rising from the tomb, and conducted up to heaven by attending angels, where the Saviour, enthroned
between the cherubim of Power and Justice, receives him with open arms. The purple mantle and
crown, the signs and adornments of earthly might, sink from the transfigured monarch upon the
tomb, around which the Seven Works of Mercy bear witness for him, while the Seven Deadly Sins
lie under the earth asleep and in chains. The idea of the composition was suggested by the
King. Kaulbach has advanced so far with its execution that the cartoon is nearly completed.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROYAL RUSSIAN PORCELAIN MANUFACTORY, at Berlin, is known over the world for the elegance
and excellence of its productions; most of the porcelain transparencies which are so common
in all countries, and so much admired, are from this source. An honorary council has just been
named to have the supervision of the artistic department of the institution. Among its members,
are the eminent painter CORNELIUS, the sculptor RAUCH, and the architect HULER.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. HEALEY, according to a letter by Mr. Walsh in the Journal of Commerce, is proceeding rapidly
in Paris with his picture of the American Senate, during the debate so famous for the passages
between Mr. Webster and Col. Hayne. Mr. Healey is said to be a very worthy person, and it is
to be regretted that his skill and genius are not equal to his morals, in which case we might
not despair of his producing a work not altogether unworthy of this subject. Some accident
introduced Mr. Healey to the late King of the French, who gave him various orders, the reception
of which was so noticed in the journals as to be of the greatest possible advantage to him.
He was suddenly elevated in the common opinion to the condition of the first rank of artists.
But he is really a painter of very ordinary capacities. We have probably some hundreds who
are very much superior to him. It is impossible to point to even one portrait by him that is
remarkable for any excellence; and all his fame rests, rather than upon his productions, upon
his having received orders from Louis Philippe. We remember the general surprise with which
groups of his portraits, displayed in the rotunda of the capitol, were viewed by critics. The
"study" of Daniel Webster, upon whose every feature God has set the visible stamp of greatness,
was among them, and it looked like the prim keeper of the accounts in a respectable grocery-store.
So of all the rest. Men sat to him from deference to the wishes of the King, but every body
felt that he was not an artist. Accidents and newspapers may confer a transient reputation,
but they can endow no one with abilities; and to espouse the cause of newspapers against the
cause of nature is a grievous wrong, in the end, to both newspapers and nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ELEGANT work of much value to the students of modern art has lately appeared at Berlin,
under the title of Rimische Studien (Roman Studies), from the pen of VON KESTNER, a diplomatist
by profession. The author, who by the way is a son of the famous CHARLOTTE, the heroine of
Göethe's "Werther," dwells with the utmost partiality on these German artists, who have developed
their talents by long and intimate acquaintance with Roman art, and who are now at work in
the fatherland. To the productions of "Cornelius," he devotes a great deal of space. The special
purpose of the work, as the author says in his preface, is to glorify Germany in the great
creations of its artists.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PHILHARMONIC SOCIETY of Paris, at one of its recent concerts, gave a piece of original
Russian music, called the "Song of the Cherubim," by BORTNIANSKY, a composer who has written
a good deal for the Imperial Chapel at St. Petersburg. It is a chorus without accompaniment,
and is spoken of by the critics as most original and striking, in fact unlike any thing familiar
to Western or Southern ears. We can easily conceive of a peculiar style of music being produced
from the bosom of the Greek Church. Those who have heard the melancholy and touching, half-barbaric
music usually employed in its ritual, will not be surprised that out of it there should arise
a quite new order of compositions.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GÖETHE'S INHERITANCE--an extensive collection of models, engravings, sculptures, carvings,
gems, minerals, fossils, original drawings, &c., collected by the great poet,--is to be sold
at Weimar, for the benefit of his heirs, two grandsons. A catalogue raisonnée has been published
by Fromman, at Jena, and it makes a very interesting book. It is suggested in the Art-Journal
for December, that if the collection were distributed in separate lots, in America, or England,
or Germany, the heirs would realize three or four times as much as they will by a single sale
for the whole, which they have determined upon. Letters upon the subject may be addressed to
Baron Walther Von Goethe, at Vienna.

       *       *       *       *       *

The author of the following remarks on ART-UNIONS, is an eminent artist, whose name has never
been associated with any discussions of these Institutions, or with any controversies connected
with them, and he has not, we believe, since the foundation of the first Art-Union in America,
had any production of his own in the market.

ART-UNIONS: THEIR TRUE CHARACTER CONSIDERED.

ART-UNIONS, and their management, have recently attracted much attention in this country, if
we may judge from the numerous articles on the subject which have appeared in some of the most
reputable journals. It is now about ten years since the first Art-Union was established in
this city. Others, in various sections, have followed, and all, whatever their peculiarities,
have been more or less successful in their chief objects.

Now it is reasonable to suppose, that the result of these ten years' efforts to promote the
cultivation of the Fine Arts among us, should furnish some evidence of their capabilities for
the accomplishment of so worthy and so great a work. The whole subject of their usefulness
resolves itself into the following queries:

I. Has any person of decided genius, who was unknown, friendless, and in need, been sought
out by them, assisted, encouraged, and at last added to the effective number of artists who
are profitably employed among us?

II. Have those artists who have received the larger share of the patronage of these institutions,
shown by their works a corresponding advance in the knowledge and love of excellence and truth
in art?

III. Have they furnished any peculiar advantages to artists, as a body, by supplying the means
of their improvement, in a free access to books, casts, pictures, or good engravings?

IV. Do Art-Unions promote the interests and reward the labors of those who are most eminently
deserving?

V. Do they elevate the pursuit of art, in the minds of the people, and teach them its value,
by distributing to them, in return for their subscriptions, only the best specimens which they
can purchase from the studios of our artists?

VI. Are there a dozen well known artists who will openly testify to a conviction of their usefulness?

It is believed by many that an affirmative response cannot be given to these questions; and
if not, then the subject of their influence need be no longer discussed.

It is not my intention, nor my desire, to inquire into the management of these institutions.
It is only at the system itself that I wish to direct the attention of the reader. If it is
proved that, as a system, this is not calculated to elevate and enlarge the sphere of the arts,
but on the contrary, that its tendency is to degrade and stifle all that is lovely and desirable
in their pursuit, then there will be no need of troubling ourselves with the lower and baser
subject of management; for there is no bad system, which, by any method, can be managed into
a good one, and satisfy the just demands of those whose interests it professes to hold in its
keeping.

Numbers rather than quality seem to govern the Art-Unions in their purchases of works, that
they may give to subscribers a greater number of chances to draw something for their money,
and thus encourage them to future patronage. This is the principle on which all lotteries live:
and when we come to sift the matter to the bottom, we cannot but acknowledge that Art-Unions
are nothing else but lotteries, under another and more popular name. Both exist ostensibly
for the good of others, who in reality are but the dupes of a most deceitful and vicious system,
against which every good citizen should indignantly turn his face. It cannot be justly said
in defence of Art-Unions, that they spend more money for art than was ever done in the same
period of time, nor that they have distributed works amongst a class of people who never thought
of giving money for such things before. They must first prove that this great amount of money
which they have collected, has been spent judiciously, for the benefit of deserving and meritorious
artists, and that the works distributed are such as to elevate the judgment and enlarge the
feelings in relation to art, among those who may have received them.

It is for the interest of lotteries to offer some very large and valuable prizes at the head
of their list, to attract the attention of the public, and thus to sell their tickets.

Similar means are adopted by Art-Unions to increase their subscription lists, which show that
the system is managed in the most efficient manner. Those who can look back fifteen and twenty
years, will remember that our country was literally flooded with the bulletin boards of lotteries,
printed in the most gaudy and attractive colors, showing a brilliant schedule of prizes, and
pledging almost certain wealth to all who would venture their money on the "grand scheme."
They will also call to mind how many a victim there was to this deceptive and depraved system
of legal fraud, until it became so injurious to the public morals, that Legislatures were forced
to hurl the bolts of the law against them, in all parts of the United States, and so put an
end to their iniquity. Lotteries have been justly prohibited by wise governments, because they
attract men from legitimate pursuits, into the speculative, uncertain, and, morally, illegitimate
pursuit of fortune. The case is similar in its results to that of Art-Unions. They attract
many from a calling for which their talents have fitted them, into a sphere so much above their
natural powers, that they must in time fall back, victims to vanity and love of gain, into
a lower plane of life perhaps, than that they once happily occupied. The effect of these Unions
is seen rather in the great number of persons of mediocre abilities they have encouraged to
enter upon the cultivation of art, than in the bringing forth greater powers and excellence
in those whose undoubted genius is apparent to the world.

It was remarked by Carlyle, that our modern intellect is of the spavined kind, "all action
and no go;" and so it appears to be in regard to the efforts that are being made to "promote
the interests of art," in this country. Art-Unions have been active enough, for many years,
and have possessed themselves of hundreds of thousands of dollars, and yet it is "no go;" the
interests of art still lie gasping, without much hope of a change for the better. There is
a great display made every year in the "distribution of prizes," and every means used to gain
public confidence, by holding up the names of the most respectable citizens as guarantees that
nothing under their control can go wrong; and by issuing bulletins in which is proved, by figures,
the flourishing state of the institution, and consequently of the beautiful arts; yet in spite
of all this, the great mass of common-sense minds and of true lovers of art, heretics that
they are, go away and exclaim, "Well, after all it's 'no go,' the works distributed are no
better than those of last year, and we are really afraid there are no hopes for the arts in
this country, so long as no other plan is adopted for their improvement."

Some of the petty states in Germany and in southern Europe obtain a large revenue from lotteries,
which are entirely under the control of the crown, and are hence commonly called "Royal," or
"Imperial." The prizes are comparatively small, but the tickets are fixed at such a very low
sum, say from ten to twenty cents, that they come within the reach of the poorest inhabitants.
The consequence is that nearly all persons who are ignorant of the scheme which the Government
has laid to tax them, spend more or less every year for lottery tickets. We have known persons
who, under the excitement produced by these plans for rapidly gaining fortunes, have pawned
the last blanket from their beds, to obtain the means of purchasing a ticket. At every drawing
of these "Imperial" lotteries, there is nothing left undone by Royalty to strike the people
with a sense of their importance, and the honesty with which they are conducted. In an open
square is erected a kind of stage large enough to be occupied by some twenty persons. Rich
canopies of scarlet and gold overhang it, and above all are figures of Justice, Plenty, Virtue,
&c. &c. The "Royal" band of music is stationed near, and amidst its enlivening tones, holding
in silence many thousands of anxious hearts, the cortege, preceded by Royalty itself, ascends,
and is seated in the order of its dignity. In front of the throne are placed, upon pedestals,
two large revolving globes half filled with tickets, and by the side of each stands a page,
in magnificent costume, blindfolded. Then commences the distribution of the prizes, in the
usual way, by drawing numbers from the globes, by the hands of the pages, which are announced
from the throne, and so along to the ears of the most distant in the multitude. At intervals,
the drawing ceases, while most charming music serves to keep the crowd together, and possibly
to drive for the moment, from many a heart, the pangs of disappointment or despair. Now there
is some excuse for ignorance on this subject, among those poor people, for there are no means
by which they can be enlightened and warned of the evil. But in this country, where the press
is free, and the means of information abundant, it would be sad to reflect that such things
can, under any name or phrase, long continue unmasked and unshorn of their power.

There is consolation in the belief, that however prosperous this species of gaming may be,
the time is not far distant when its true character and tendency will be made manifest; and
when the unseen but certain operations of the moral sense of our people will put an end to
its inglorious career; if not directly, through the action of the laws, yet indirectly, by
withholding the necessary contributions to its further support.

This parallel between Art-Unions and Lotteries is drawn that the character of the former may
be more readily comprehended by the reader.

In the recent drawing of the American Art-Union there were distributed one thousand works of
art, making about one prize to sixteen blanks. But where did all these "thousand works" come
from? and what are they? Have they all been executed by living American artists? Are they paintings,
or sculptures, or engravings, purchased from the artists who made them, and who have received
an adequate price for them? We know from their advertisement that sixty of them are "impressions
from the large engravings after Col. Trumbull's pictures of the Battle of Bunker Hill and the
Death of Montgomery." Now the purchase of these engravings from the pictures of a long deceased
painter can be of no possible service to the painters living and laboring among us, nor to
the progress of art in any way. As well might the Art-Union purchase for distribution sixty
copies of Dunlap's History of the Arts of Design, or of Allston's Lectures on Art, or any object
pertaining to the subject that may be procured at any time of the book or print sellers. It
is true, they must manage to offer a number of small prizes, the best way they can, that they
may in some plausible way meet the expectations of their very extended lists of subscribers,
to which, it seems, they never attempt to set a limit. Here is another proof that they are
mere speculators upon the labors of artists, and only seek to enlarge their subscriptions,
and usurp a power and control over the great body of artists, which should never, with their
consent, be allowed to any, no matter how respectable, body of men.

Let us turn to the "Western Art-Union." Having but few good prizes to offer, nothing indeed
which would ensure them a large subscription list, it became necessary to procure some well
known production for this purpose, as a capital prize. The managers therefore negotiated, in
a very quiet manner, with a Mr. Robb, of New Orleans, for one of HIRAM POWERS'S finest statues,
the "Greek Slave," then in the possession of Mr. Robb, and it was accordingly taken to Cincinnati,
and placed on exhibition in the Art-Union, as one of the prizes to be distributed this year.
Handbills were then sent over the United States announcing this fact. Of course, with such
a celebrated work as this, thousands would be seduced to purchase a ticket, and thus place
the Art-Union in a most flourishing condition, and probably secure to it at least double the
sum which it had paid, or the sculptor had originally received, for the statue.

Now let us consider this transaction in its true light. The Art-Union was established solely
for the purpose of benefiting artists, protecting their interests, and increasing the knowledge
of art among the people. From these facts it is evident that neither of these purposes were
kept in view or carried out. Instead of negotiating with the sculptor himself for one of his
works, and giving him a liberal price for it, they never mentioned the subject to him, but
secretly purchased one of another person--a rich man, who was in nowise whatever connected
with the arts.

One would have supposed that even if there were very strong inducements to such a procedure
on the part of this institution, for the sake of gain, still that a friendly feeling towards
the great sculptor, of whom the Queen City is so proud, and a due regard for his interests
and his fame, would have prevented the consummation of such an act. It can be no pleasing reflection
to Mr. Powers, that a work which many persons in Europe, as well as in America, would have
purchased at any reasonable price, should, by any movement of his own townsmen, be disposed
of at a public raffle, so that of its final destination he must long remain in ignorance.

It seems, from what has here been adduced, that Art-Unions have not proved of service to art
or artists, notwithstanding the immense amount annually collected for this ostensible purpose;
but that they are in reality only lotteries operating under another but less objectionable name.

If a corporation can be granted by the Legislature, with the privilege of selling pictures,
or statuary, by lottery, every other branch of industry is as much entitled to such a privilege,
or our laws are onesided and unjust. We would then see distributions of prizes from every quarter,
until the whole mechanical and commercial interests of the country would be turned into Lotteries
or Unions. Following the example of the Art-Union in this state, we have already advertised
a "Homestead Art-Union," the grand prize of which is a "house and lot situated in Williamsburgh,
which cost nearly $5,000." Subscribers are entitled to "an elegant and valuable engraving,
which has heretofore sold at $7.50, (being $2.50 more than the price of subscription,) and
superior in execution and elegance to any picture distributed in this manner." It has in its
collection for distribution "ninety-nine elegant and costly oil paintings and engravings, richly
framed in ornamental and plain gilt frames." All the difference between these Unions, seems
to be in the fact that the "Homestead" has limited the number of tickets--certainly an improvement
on the other, so far as the public interest is concerned. We may expect to hear very soon of
Bread and Meat Art-Unions, when the whole community, for a very small outlay, may live like
princes, and snap their fingers at haggard want.

The tendency of these hotbed methods of cultivating an appreciation of art and of rewarding
its professors, has been to discourage artists from any suitable efforts to provide instruction,
upon a liberal scale, to those who are seeking for it. Indeed it takes from them the power
to do so, by drawing away funds necessary to such an object, which, but for these grand schemes,
would be likely to come into their hands. One has but to observe the motives which induce persons
to subscribe to an Art-Union, to be convinced that the great majority do so for the sake of
self-aggrandizement, that is, to have a chance of getting the works of our best artists for
a mere tithe of their value, or in the language of the advertisements, "of obtaining a valuable
return, for a small investment;" as they would buy any other lottery tickets: to make the most
out of their money. But there are many who subscribe from nobler motives--real lovers of art,
whose only object is to lend a helping hand to its interests, and to show a generous sympathy
in the struggles and self-denying endeavors of all whose souls are so wrapt up in its pursuit
that they scarcely arrive at the knowledge requisite to a charge of their own pecuniary and
worldly affairs. This latter class of subscribers believe they are gratifying this genuine
love of the beautiful and good, when they give annually their five dollars to an institution
chartered for the express design of protecting and cherishing the interests of art, and of
enlarging the field of its labors and usefulness among the people. These genuine patrons give,
without a hope or thought of drawing a prize, or receiving in any shape a return for their
subscriptions. Did they reflect upon, or know, that these funds were worse than misapplied,
they would withhold them, and seek in some other way to make a proper appropriation of them.

We have said that these Art-Unions prevent artists from taking any steps to provide the means
of instruction for those who need and seek it. As an illustration of this we may mention the
present state of the National Academy of Design. It is, and has been for two or three years,
quite prostrate for want of funds; its schools have been closed, and without assistance it
must soon die. A few years ago it was in a flourishing state, and offered the advantages of
study which their fine collection of casts from the best antique statues, and a small but well
selected and growing library could afford to students. Such have been the results of Art-Unions
upon schools of art everywhere. To be sure the members of the National Academy are not entirely
free from censure in this matter, for many of them, smitten with the "Union" mania, gave it
their countenance, and even something more substantial, to assist its infant struggles for
popularity, little suspecting, certainly, that they were lending a club which would sooner
or later strike them to the ground. It may not be out of place here to remark, that it is firmly
believed that the Academy of Design can yet rise up from its ashes, and overthrow all such
schemes as Art-Unions, by placing itself upon a more liberal and popular footing; and by disclaiming
all exclusive titles as utterly unworthy the ambition of every sensible and right-feeling artist.
Institutions in this country, to be useful, must be placed on a popular foundation; and to
be popular, they must rest upon the broad republican principle of equal rights and equal privileges
to all. Let the members of the Academy open their doors wide enough to admit all classes of
artisans who desire to study the principles of design--the basis upon which the beauty and
the saleability of their works mainly depends. There might then, in addition to the sections
of Painting and Sculpture, be added those of Architecture, Ornamental Marble and Stone Workers,
Carvers in Wood and Metal, Gold and Silver Smiths, Cabinet Makers, and indeed, as many other
occupations as chose to unite themselves, in separate sections, for the purposes of mutual
instruction in the Art of Design. This would at once be practical and popular, and with such
objects in view, the Academy could with very little additional funds be put into immediate
and successful operation, and become a highly honorable and most useful institution. These
are mere suggestions, thrown out for the consideration of the members of the Academy and others
interested. This is not the proper place to enlarge upon such a subject.

Artists must learn, if they do not know, how to control their own affairs, and if they are
determined to succeed, they must not think of trusting their interests to the keeping of those
not of their profession, and entirely uneducated in art, and who consequently cannot be qualified
to discharge so delicate a duty with judgment and fidelity. It is an old saying, but very applicable
to the present instance, that "if you neglect your own business, you need not expect others
to attend to it for you." Let artists depend more upon private sales of their works to those
who can appreciate them for a just remuneration, than upon the deceptive offers which chartered
schemes may hold out to them. They will then, by their worth and their artistic merits, build
up about them a solid body of friends and patrons, of whom nothing but death itself can rob
them; and the number of whom time will but increase, until they may look forward with well-founded
hopes to a peaceful and honorable old age, and a full reward for all their labors. They cannot
justly suppose that permanent success and a distinguished name can be attained through any
other channel than by honesty, and excellence in their works. Honors and rewards from private
sources may be very laggard in their approach, but they must ultimately come--especially in
this enlightened, progressive, and prosperous country--to those who have fairly earned them.

Recent Deaths.

Those who have been accustomed to visit the bookstore of Bartlett & Welford, under the Astor
House, during the last half-dozen years, must have been familiar with the commanding figure
and gentle but uneasy expression of our late excellent friend, the Rev. SERENO E. DWIGHT, D.
D., who died in Philadelphia on the thirtieth of November, in the sixty-fourth year of his
age. Dr. Dwight was born in Greenfield, Connecticut, in 1786, and was educated at Yale College,
where he was graduated in 1803, being then about seventeen years of age. He became a tutor
in the college, but soon abandoned this occupation to commence the study of the law at Burlington
in Vermont, and in a few years he was admitted to practice in the highest courts of the country.
An early and ever-increasing predilection, however, led him to the profession of his father,
and upon completing his theological studies he was settled over the Park-street Congregational
church, in Boston, where, he rapidly acquired the fame of being one of the ablest, most eloquent,
and most useful divines in New-England.

He had contracted a cutaneous disease, from the injudicious use of calomel, while a tutor in
Yale College; and its effects increased so much now, that his parishioners, who had become
quite attached to him, in 1825 induced him to undertake a voyage to Europe. A year's travel,
in Great Britain, Germany, France, and other countries, failed to restore his health, and soon
after his return to the United States he resigned his charge of the Park-street church, and
undertook the Presidency of Hamilton College, which in turn he was compelled to surrender,
and in 1830 he opened, at New-Haven, an Academy, in which he was assisted by his wife, a daughter
of the late Judge Daggett. The decline of Mrs. Dwight's health, and other circumstances, induced
him to relinquish the business of teaching; he visited the Southern States, was during several
sessions chaplain to the United States Senate, and, devoting himself to literature, wrote an
elaborate memoir of his great-grandfather, Jonathan Edwards, and several works of less importance,
one of which was "The Hebrew Wife," written to illustrate the Jewish laws of marriage, and
published in New-York in 1836.

The death of his wife, and increasing physical infirmities, led him to adopt a habit of the
utmost seclusion in New-York, where he passed nearly all the residue of his life. His last
appearance in public was in the summer of 1848, when he consented to act with Mr. John R. Bartlett
(now the chief of the Mexican Boundary Commission) and the writer of these paragraphs, as an
examiner of one of the departments of the Rutgers Female Institute. He died suddenly, while
upon a visit to Philadelphia for the purpose of trying the effect of the hydropathic treatment
of his disease, on the 30th of September. In the Home Journal of December 14, Mr. Willis says
of him:--

     "In the death of this excellent man we have lost a friend,
     whose loss to ourself we most sincerely mourn, though the grave
     was, to him, a welcome relief from an insufferable disease,
     that had made life wretched for years. Mr. Dwight was the son
     of Rev. Dr. Dwight, President of Yale College. He became pastor
     of Park-st. church, in Boston, while we attended it in boyhood,
     and it is our pride to record that we were so fortunate as to
     secure his friendship at that time, and to retain it, in
     undiminished warmth and kindness, to the day of his death. Mr.
     Dwight was a man of qualities unusual in his profession. When
     he first came to Boston, in perfect health, he was, in personal
     appearance, the ideal of a high-souled and faultlessly elegant
     gentleman--with more of manly and refined beauty, indeed, than
     we remember to have combined in any other man. He wore these
     winning gifts most unconsciously, being beloved by the humblest
     for his open and accessible simplicity and kindness: and his
     health first gave way under the laborious discharge of his
     parochial duties. He was too severely critical and polished a
     scholar to be either a very eloquent preacher or an easy
     writer, but his sermons were models of purity of style, study,
     and elevated thought, and his pastoral intercourse and counsel
     were too delightful ever to be forgotten by those who enjoyed
     it. Sent to Europe for his health, by his congregation, Mr.
     Dwight was received and followed with a degree of enthusiastic
     and flattering attention which fully confirmed his mark as a
     man, and showed how Nature's noblemen are recognized and
     honored everywhere. He resumed his duties on his return, but
     was soon obliged by illness to relinquish them, and, from that
     time forward, he was never again well. His weakness took the
     shape of a cutaneous disease of the most irritating and
     incurable form, and though he made one or two attempts at
     re-commencing his usefulness, it was sadly in vain. He resided
     secludedly in New-York during the latter years of his life,
     giving to books and scholarship what mind he could withdraw
     from pain, and, even thus, ready always with kindness and
     delightful earnestness, to give counsel or sympathy to those he
     loved. Mr. Dwight was a martyr to that great wrong of our
     country toward all clergymen--to express it by a common saying,
     "the working a free horse to death"--and we have only to look
     at the pale faces, the stooping chests, and the slender frames
     of most of our clerical men, to see how mind, patience,
     attention, needful leisure and more needful sleep, are cruelly
     overdrawn upon, by the service expected of them. But for his
     share of suffering by this exacting system, Mr. Dwight might
     have been, for years to come, the ornament and pride to his
     country which his unequalled combination of fine gifts
     qualified him to be; and we should not mourn, as we now do,
     over his life embittered while it lasted, and sent to the grave
     in what might have been its meridian of usefulness and
     ornament."

       *       *       *       *       *

COUNT BRANDENBURGH, the Prussian Prime Minister, died on the 6th November at Berlin. He was
a natural brother of the late King of Prussia, being the illegitimate son of the present King's
grandfather, by the Countess Dönhoff Frederichstein, and was acknowledged, educated, and admitted
as such, by the Prussian Royal family, by whom he was invariably treated as a friend and relative,
although not with royal honors. He was born on the 23d of January, 1792, and had nearly completed
his 59th year. He was educated for the military profession and entered the service in 1807;
his promotion continued regularly, and in 1812 he was a captain on the staff of General Von
York, under whom he saw some service. In 1813 he became major, and in that rank took part in
the numerous actions between the Prussian and the French armies, including the battles of Leipsic,
and Bautzen, Brienne, Laon, and Paris. At the passage of the Rhine at Caub, Count Brandenburgh
was the first who reached the French bank. For his good conduct at Mokern and Wartenburg, he
received the Iron Cross of the first class. In 1814 he was made lieutenant-colonel. In 1816
he received the command of the regiment in which he first entered the service. From 1816 to
1846 he received various promotions, charges, and decorations. In 1848 he was made general
in command of the 8th army corps. Up to this time he had taken no part in politics. The London
Times says:

     "It was in the midst of those scenes of anarchy and violence
     which, about two years ago, had shaken the Prussian monarchy to
     its foundations--when a furious Assembly, beleaguered and
     intimidated by a more furious mob, had usurped sovereign power
     in the capital, and a democratic constitution was all but
     grafted on the military throne of Frederic the Great,--that we
     remember to have exclaimed, in the wonder and the dread of that
     terrible period, "Will no one save the house of Hohenzollern?"
     The state seemed to be on the brink of a cataract, and even the
     leaders of the popular movement were ignorant of the dark and
     stormy course before them. At that moment, it was announced one
     morning, to the amazement of the Prussians and of Europe, that
     an elderly gentleman, who had never taken any active part in
     politics, but had lived in the most exclusive circles of the
     aristocracy, and the Prussian Guards, was about to enter on the
     task which the boldest men had found beyond their courage, and
     the ablest beyond their capacity. But though he laid small
     claim to skill in political tactics, or experience in the
     administration of affairs, Count Brandenburgh brought to the
     service of his sovereign precisely those plain qualities which
     no one else appeared to possess. He had sense, he had firmness,
     he absolutely contemned the storm of unpopularity which greeted
     his appointment, and he proceeded to conduct the Government
     with full confidence that, although his countrymen were
     peculiarly subject to fits of enthusiasm, they respect nothing
     so much in the long run as a clear will and definite authority.
     After about fifteen months the citizens of Berlin hailed Count
     Brandenburgh as the saviour of his country."

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE GRENVILLE, LORD NUGENT, died on the 26th of November at Lillies, near Aylesbury, aged
sixty-one. He was the second son of the Marquis of Rockingham, and inherited the Irish Barony
of Nugent, on the death of his mother, in 1812. During the same year he was elected M. P. for
Aylesbury, and continued to represent that borough on the Liberal interest, until 1832, when
he was appointed Lord High Commissioner of the Ionian Isles. He held that office until 1836,
when he returned to England. In 1847 he was re-elected for Aylesbury. He enjoyed a very fair
literary reputation. He was the author of "Lands, Classical and Sacred," "Memorials of Hampden,"
and other interesting productions. In conjunction with Lady Nugent, he also brought out the
popular "Legends of the Library at Lillies."

       *       *       *       *       *

M. ALEXANDRE FRAGONARD, the eminent French painter and sculptor, died in October. He was a
pupil of David. As a statuary, his great work is the frontispiece of the old Chamber of Deputies;
and, as a painter, he executed several fine pieces, amongst others a ceiling of the Louvre,
representing Tasso reading his "Jerusalem." His chief works were engraved in 1840.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. JOSEPH DROZ, a member of the French Institute, died in Paris in November. The youth of M.
Droz was devoted to stormier occupations than that in which he gathered the laurels now laid
upon his grave. For three years he was a soldier:--for upwards of fifty he has been devoted
to letters and to philosophy. His last escort was composed of the men who had been his comrades
in that latter field,--and over his grave MM. Guizot and Bartholemy Saint-Hilaire, pronounced
eulogies.

       *       *       *       *       *

PROFESSOR SCHORN, died in Augsburgh on the 7th of October, at the premature age of forty-seven
years. In the formation of the Munich Gallery, he was the most trusted and active emissary,
and traversed considerable portions of Europe, including England and Italy, in search of those
treasures which now enrich this famous gallery. When in London, his companion was Von Martins,
the eminent Brazilian traveller and naturalist.

       *       *       *       *       *

GUSTAVE SCHWAB, one of the most popular poets of Germany, died at Stuttgart on the 4th of November,
aged fifty-eight. Schwab was the friend of Uhland. His death was very sudden. On the morning
of the day on which he was summoned, he had entertained a party of his friends at breakfast,
and read to them passages of a translation into German verse, which he was making of the poetical
works of M. de Lamartine.

Spirit of the English Annuals.

NEW TALES BY THACKERAY, BULWER, MRS. HALL, &c.

The holiday souvenirs for the present season are less numerous in England, as in this country,
than in some previous years; but the Keepsake, edited formerly by Lady Blessington, and now
by her niece, Miss Power, is among the few favorite annuals that are continued, and it is as
good as in its best days. We quote several of its chief attractions, and first

VOLTIGUER:

BY THE AUTHOR OF THE "HISTORY OF PENDENNIS."

There arose out of the last Epsom races a little family perplexity, whereon the owner of Voltiguer
little speculated: and as out of this apparently trivial circumstance a profound and useful
moral may be drawn, to be applied by the polite reader; and as Epsom Races will infallibly
happen next year, and, I dare say, for many succeeding generations; perhaps the moral which
this brief story points had better be printed upon Dorling's next "Correct Card," as a warning
to future patrons and patronesses of the turf.

This moral, then--this text of our sermon, is, NEVER----but we will keep the moral, if you
please, for the end of the fable.

It happened, then, that among the parties who were collected on the Hill to see the race, the
carriage of a gentleman, whom we shall call Sir Joseph Raikes, occupied a commanding position,
and attracted a great deal of attention amongst the gentlemen sportsmen. Those bucks upon the
ground who were not acquainted with the fair occupant of that carriage--as indeed, how should
many thousands of them be?--some being shabby bucks; some being vulgar bucks; some being hot
and unpleasant bucks, smoking bad cigars, and only staring into Lady Raikes's carriage by that
right which allows one Briton to look at another Briton, and a cat to look at a king;--of those
bucks, I say, who, not knowing Lady Raikes, yet came and looked at her, there was scarce one
that did not admire her, and envy the lucky rogue her husband. Of those ladies who, in their
walks from their own vehicles, passed her ladyship's, there was scarce one lady in society
who did not say, "is that all?--is that the beauty you are all talking about so much? She is
overrated; she looks stupid; she is over-dressed; she squints;" and so forth; whilst of the
men who did happen to have the honor of an acquaintance with Lady Raikes and her husband (and
many a man, who had thought Raikes rather stupid in his bachelor days, was glad enough to know
him now), each as he came to the carriage, and partook of the excellent luncheon provided there,
had the most fascinating grins and ogles for the lady, and the most triumphant glances for
all the rest of the world,--glances which seemed to say, "Look, you rascals, I know Lady Raikes;
you don't know Lady Raikes. I can drink a glass of champagne to Lady Raikes's health. What
would you give, you dog, to have such a sweet smile from Lady Raikes? Did you ever see such
eyes? did you ever see such a complexion? did you ever see such a killing pink dress, and such
a dear little delightfully carved ivory parasol?"--Raikes had it carved for her last year at
Baden, when they were on their wedding-trip. It has their coats of arms and their ciphers intertwined
elegantly round the stalk--a J and a Z; her name is Zuleika; before she was married she was
Zuleika Trotter. Her elder sister, Medora, married Lord T--mn--ddy; her younger, Haidee, is
engaged to the eldest son of the second son of a noble D-ke. The Trotters are of a good family.
Dolly Trotter, Zuleika's brother, was in the same regiment (and that, I need not say, an extremely
heavy one) with Sir Joseph Raikes.

He did not call himself Joseph then: quite the contrary. Larkyn Raikes, before his marriage,
was one of the wildest and most irregular of our British youth. Let us not allude--he would
blush to hear them--to the particulars of his past career. He turned away his servant for screwing
up one of the knockers which he had removed during the period of his own bachelorhood, from
an eminent physician's house in Saville Row, on the housekeeper's door at Larkyn Hall. There
are whole hampers of those knockers stowed away somewhere, and snuff-taking Highlanders, and
tin hats, and black boys,--the trophies of his youth, which Raikes would like to send back
to their owners, did he know them; and when he carried off these spoils of war he was not always
likely to know. When he goes to the Bayonet and Anchor Club now (and he dined there twice during
Lady Raikes's ... in fine, when there was no dinner at home), the butler brings him a half-pint
of sherry and a large bottle of Seltzer water, and looks at him with a sigh, and wonders--"Is
this Captain Raikes, as used to breakfast off pale hale at three, to take his regular two bottles
at dinner, and to drink brandy and water in the smoking billiard-room all night till all was
blue?" Yes, it is the same Raikes; Larkyn no more--riotous no more--brandivorous no longer.
He gave away all his cigars at his marriage; quite unlike Screwby, who also married the other
day, and offered to sell me some. He has not betted at a race since his father paid his debts
and forgave him, just before the old gentleman died and Raikes came into his kingdom. Upon
that accession, Zuleika Trotter, who looked rather sweetly upon Bob Vincent before, was so
much touched by Sir Joseph Raikes's determination to reform, that she dismissed Bob and became
Lady Raikes.

Dolly Trotter still remains in the Paddington Dragoons; Dolly is still unmarried; Dolly smokes
still; Dolly owes money still. And though his venerable father, Rear-admiral Sir Ajax Trotter,
K.C.B., has paid his debts many times, and swears if he ever hears of Dolly betting again,
he will disinherit his son, Dolly--the undutiful Dolly--goes on betting still.

Lady Raikes, then, beamed in the pride of her beauty upon Epsom race-course, dispensed smiles
and luncheon to a host of acquaintances, and accepted, in return, all the homage and compliments
which the young men paid her. The hearty and jovial Sir Joseph Raikes was not the least jealous
of the admiration which his pretty wife caused; not even of Bob Vincent, whom he rather pitied
for his mishap, poor fellow! (to be sure, Zuleika spoke of Vincent very scornfully, and treated
his pretensions as absurd); and with whom, meeting him on the course, Raikes shook hands very
cordially, and insisted upon bringing him up to Lady Raikes's carriage, to take refreshment.

There could have been no foundation for the wicked rumor, that Zuleika had looked sweetly upon
Vincent before Raikes had carried her off. Lady Raikes received Mr. Vincent with the kindest
and frankest smile; shook hands with him with perfect politeness and indifference, and laughed
and talked so easily with him, that it was impossible there could have been any previous discomfort
between them.

Not very far off from Lady Raikes's carriage, on the hill, there stood a little black brougham--the
quietest and most modest equipage in the world, and in which there must have been nevertheless
something very attractive, for the young men crowded around this carriage in numbers; and especially
that young reprobate Dolly Trotter was to be seen, constantly leaning his great elbows on the
window, and poking his head into the carriage. Lady Raikes remarked that, among other gentlemen,
her husband went up and spoke to the little carriage, and when he and Dolly came back to her,
asked who was in the black brougham.

For some time Raikes could not understand which was the brougham she meant--there was so many
broughams. "The black one with the red blinds was it? Oh, that--that was a very old friend--yes,
old Lord Cripplegate, was in the brougham: he had the gout, and he couldn't walk."

As Raikes made this statement he blushed as red as a geranium; he looked at Dolly Trotter in
an imploring manner, who looked at him, and who presently went away from his sister's carriage
bursting with laughter. After making the above statement to his wife, Raikes was particularly
polite and attentive to her, and did not leave her side; nor would he consent to her leaving
the carriage. There were all sorts of vulgar people about: she would be jostled in the crowd:
she could not bear the smell of the cigars--she knew she couldn't (this made Lady Raikes wince
a little): the sticks might knock her darling head off; and so forth.

Raikes is a very accomplished and athletic man, and, as a bachelor, justly prided himself upon
shying at the sticks better than any man in the army. Perhaps, as he passed the persons engaged
in that fascinating sport, he would have himself liked to join in it; but he declined his favorite
entertainment, and came back faithfully to the side of his wife.

As Vincent talked at Lady Raikes's side, he alluded to this accomplishment of her husband.
"Your husband has not many accomplishments," Vincent said (he is a man of rather a sardonic
humor), "but in shying at the sticks he is quite unequalled: he has quite a genius for it.
He ought to have the sticks painted on his carriage, as the French marshals have their bâtons.
Hasn't he brought you a pincushion or a jack-in-the-box, Lady Raikes? and has he begun to neglect
you so soon? Every father with a little boy at home" (and he congratulated her ladyship on
the birth of that son and heir) "ought surely to think of him, and bring him a soldier, or
a monkey, or a toy or two."

"Oh, yes," cried Lady Raikes, "her husband must go. He must go and bring back a soldier, or
a monkey, or a dear little jack-in-the-box, for dear little Dolly at home."

So away Raikes went; indeed nothing loth. He warmed with the noble sport: he was one of the
finest players in England. He went on playing for a delightful half-hour; (how swiftly, in
the blessed amusement, it passed away!) he reduced several of the sticksters to bankruptcy
by his baculine skill; he returned to the carriage laden with jacks, wooden apples and soldiers,
enough to amuse all the nurseries in Pimlico.

During his absence Lady Raikes, in the most winning manner, had asked Mr. Vincent for his arm,
for a little walk; and did not notice the sneer with which he said that his arm had always
been at her service. She was not jostled by the crowd inconveniently; she was not offended
by the people smoking (though Raikes was forbidden that amusement); and she walked up on Mr.
Vincent's arm, and somehow found herself close to the little black brougham, in which sat gouty
old Lord Cripplegate.

Gouty old Lord Cripplegate wore a light blue silk dress, a lace mantle and other gimcracks,
a white bonnet with roses, and ringlets as long as a chancellor's wig, but of the most beautiful
black hue. His lordship had a pair of enormous eyes, that languished in a most killing manner;
and cheeks that were decorated with delicate dimples; and lips of the color of the richest
sealing-wax.

"Who's that?" asked Lady Raikes.

"That," said Mr. Vincent, "is Mrs. Somerset Montmorency."

"Who's Mrs. Somerset Montmorency?" hissed out Zuleika.

"It is possible you have not met her in society, Mrs. Somerset Montmorency doesn't go much
into society," Mr. Vincent said.

"Why did he say it was Lord Cripplegate?"

Vincent, like a fiend, burst out laughing.

"Did Raikes say it was Lord Cripplegate? Well, he ought to know."

"What ought he to know?" asked Zuleika.

"Excuse me, Lady Raikes," said the other, with his constant sneer; "there are things which
people had best not know. There are things which people had best forget, as your ladyship very
well knows. You forget; why shouldn't Raikes forget? Let by-gones be by-gones. Let's all forget,
Zulei--I beg your pardon. Here comes Raikes. How hot he looks! He has got a hat full of jack-in-the-boxes.
How obedient he has been! He will not set the Thames on fire--but he's a good fellow. Yes;
we'll forget all: won't we?" And the fiend pulled the tuft under his chin, and gave a diabolical
grin with his sallow face.

Zuleika did not say one word about Lord Cripplegate when Raikes found her and flung his treasures
into her lap. She did not show her anger in words, but in an ominous, boding silence; during
which her eyes might be seen moving constantly to the little black brougham.

When the Derby was run, and Voltigeur was announced as the winner, Sir Joseph, who saw the
race from the box of his carriage--having his arm around her ladyship, who stood on the back
seat, and thought all men the greatest hypocrites in creation (and so a man is the greatest
hypocrite of all animals, save one)--Raikes jumped up and gave a "Hurrah!" which he suddenly
checked when his wife asked, with a deathlike calmness, "And pray, sir, have you been betting
upon the race, that you are so excited?"

"Oh no, my love; of course not. But you know it's a Yorkshire horse, and I--I'm glad it wins;
that's all," Raikes said; in which statement there was not, I am sorry to say, a word of truth.

Raikes wasn't a betting man any more. He had forsworn it: he would never bet again. But he
had just, in the course of the day, taken the odds in one little bet; and he had just happened
to win. When his wife charged him with the crime, he was about to avow it. "But no," he thought;
"it will be a surprise for her. I will buy her the necklace she scolded me about at Lacy and
Gimcrack's; it's just the sum. She has been sulky all day. It's about that she is sulky now.
I'll go and have another shy at the sticks." And he went away, delighting himself with this
notion, and with the idea that at last he could satisfy his adorable little Zuleika.

As Raikes passed Mrs. Somerset Montmorency's brougham, Zuleika remarked how that lady beckoned
to him, and how Raikes went up to her. Though he did not remain by the carriage two minutes,
Zuleika was ready to take an affidavit that he was there for half an hour; and was saluted
by a satanical grin from Vincent, who by this time had returned to her carriage side, and was
humming a French tune, which says that "on revient toujours à ses premi-è-res amours, à se-es
premières amours."

"What is that you are singing? How dare you sing that?" cried Lady Raikes, with tears.

"It's an old song--you used to sing it," said Mr. Vincent. "By the way, I congratulate you.
Your husband has won six hundred pounds. I heard Betterton say so, who gave him the odds."

"He is a wretch! He gave me his word of honor that he didn't bet. He is a gambler--he'll ruin
his child! He neglects his wife for that--that creature! He calls her Lord Crick--crick--ipplegate,"
sobbed her ladyship, "Why did I marry him?"

"Why, indeed!" said Mr. Vincent.

As the two were talking, Dolly Trotter, her ladyship's brother, came up to the carriage; at
which, with a scowl on his wicked countenance, and indulging inwardly in language which I am
very glad not to be called upon to report, Vincent retired, biting his nails, like a traitor,
and exhibiting every sign of ill-humor which the villain of a novel or of a play is wont to betray.

"Don't have that fellow about you, Zuly," Dolly said to his darling sister. "He is a bad one.
He's no principle: he--he's a gambler, and every thing that's bad."

"I know others who are gamblers," cried out Zuleika. "I know others who are every thing that's
bad, Adolphus," Lady Raikes exclaimed.

"For heaven's sake, what do you mean?" said Adolphus, becoming red and looking very much frightened.

"I mean my husband," gasped the lady. "I shall go home to papa. I shall take my dear little
blessed babe with me and go to papa, Adolphus. And if you had the spirit of a man, you would--you
would avenge me, that you would."

"Against Joe!" said the heavy dragoon; "against Joe, Zuly? Why, hang me if Joe isn't the greatest
twump in Chwistendom. By Jove he is!" said the big one, shaking his fist; "and if that scoundwel,
Vincent, or any other wascal, has said a word against him, by Jove--"

"Pray stop your horrid oaths and vulgar threats, Adolphus," her ladyship said.

"I don't know what it is--you've got something against Joe. Something has put you against him;
and if it's Vincent, I'll wring his--"

"Mercy! mercy! Pray cease this language." Lady Raikes said.

"You don't know what a good fellow Joe is," said the dragoon. "The best twump in England, as
I've weason to say, sister: and here he comes with the horses. God bless the old boy!"

With this, honest Sir Joseph Raikes took his seat in his carriage; and tried, by artless blandishments,
by humility, and by simple conversation, to coax his wife into good humor; but all his efforts
were unavailing. She would not speak a word during the journey to London; and when she reached
home, rushed up to the nursery and instantly burst into tears upon the sleeping little Adolphus's
pink and lace cradle.

"It's all about that necklace, Mrs. Prince," the good-natured Baronet explained to the nurse
of the son and heir. "I know it's about the necklace. She rowed me about it all the way down
to Epsom; and I can't give it her now, that's flat. I've no money. I won't go tick, that's
flat; and she ought to be contented with what she has had; oughtn't she, Prince?"

"Indeed she ought, Sir Joseph; and you're an angel of a man, Sir Joseph; and so I often tell
my lady, Sir Joseph," the nurse said: "and the more you will spile her, the more she will take
on, Sir Joseph."

But if Lady Raikes was angry at not having the necklace, what must have been her ladyship's
feelings when she saw in the box opposite to her at the Opera, Mrs. Somerset Montmorency, with
that very necklace on her shoulders for which she had pined in vain! How she got it? Who gave
it her? How she came by the money to buy such a trinket? How she dared to drive about at all
in the Park, the audacious wretch! All these were questions which the infuriate Zuleika put
to herself, her confidential maid, her child's nurse, and two or three of her particular friends;
and of course she determined that there was but one clue to the mystery of the necklace, which
was that her husband had purchased it with the six hundred pounds which he had won at the Derby,
which he denied having won even to her, which he had spent in this shameful manner. Nothing
would suit her but a return home to her papa--nothing would satisfy her but a separation from
the criminal who had betrayed her. She wept floods of tears over her neglected boy, and repeatedly
asked that as yet speechless innocent, whether he would remember his mother when her place
was filled by another, and whether her little Adolphus would take care that no insult was offered
to her untimely grave?

The row at home at length grew so unbearable, that Sir Joseph Raikes, who had never had an
explanation since his marriage, and had given into all his wife's caprices--that Sir Joseph,
we say, even with his 'eavenly temper, he broke out into a passion; and one day after dinner,
at which only his brother-in-law Dolly was present, told his wife that her tyranny was intolerable,
and that it must come to an end.

Dolly said he was "quite wight," and backed up Raikes in every way.

Zuleika said they were a pair of brutes, and that she desired to return to Sir Ajax.

"Why, what the devil is urging you?" cried the husband; "you drive me mad, Zuleika."

"Yes; what are you at, Zuleika? You dwive him cwazy," said the brother.

Upon which Zuleika broke out. She briefly stated that her husband was a liar; that he was a
gambler; that he had deceived her about betting at Epsom, and had given his word to a lie;
that he had deceived her about that--that woman,--and given his word to another lie; and that,
with the fruits of his gambling transactions at Epsom, he had purchased the diamond necklace,
not for her, but for that--that person! That was all--that was enough. Let her go home and
die in Baker Street, in the room which, she prayed Heaven, she never had quitted! That was
her charge. If Sir Joseph Raikes had any thing to say he had better say it.

Sir Joseph Raikes said, that she had the most confounded jealous temper that ever a woman was
cursed with; that he had been on his knees to her ever since his marriage, and had spent half
his income in administering to her caprices and extravagancies; that as for these charges,
they were so monstrous, he should not condescend to answer them; and as she chose to leave
her husband and her child, she might go whenever she liked.

Lady Raikes upon this rang the bell, and requested Hickson the butler to tell Dickson her maid
to bring down her bonnet and shawl; and when Hickson quitted the dining-room, Dolly Trotter began:

"Zuleika," said he, "you are enough to twy the patience of an angel; and, by Jove, you do!
You've got the best fellow for a husband (a sneer from Zuleika) that ever was bullied by a
woman, and you tweat him like a dawg. When you were ill, you used to make him get up of a night
to go to the doctor's. When you're well, you plague his life out of him. He pays your milliner's
bills, as if you were a duchess, and you have but to ask for a thing and you get it."

"Oh, yes, I have necklaces!" said Zuleika.

"Confound you, Zuly! had'nt he paid three hundwed and eighty for a new cawwiage for you the
week before? Hadn't he fitted your dwawing-woom with yellow satin at the beginning of the season?
Hadn't he bought you the pair of ponies you wanted, and gone without a hack himself, and he
gettin' as fat as a porpoise for want of exercise, the poor old boy? And for that necklace,
do you know how it was that you didn't have it, and that you were very nearly having it, you
ungwateful little devil you? It was I prevented you! He did win six hundwed at the Derby; and
he would have bought your necklace, but he gave me the money. The governor said he never would
pay another play-debt again for me; and bet I would, like a confounded, gweat, stooped fool:
and it was this old Joe--this dear old twump--who booked up for me, and took me out of the
hole, like the best fellow in the whole world, by Jove! And--and I'll never bet again, so help
me----! And that's why he couldn't tell--and that's why he wouldn't split on me--and that's
why you didn't have your confounded necklace, which old Cwipplegate bought for Mrs. Montmowency,
who's going to marry her, like a confounded fool for his pains!"

And here the dragoon being blown, took a large glass of claret; and when Hickson and Dickson
came down stairs, they found her ladyship in rather a theatrical attitude, on her knees, embracing
her husband's big hand, and calling down blessings upon him, and owning that she was a wretch,
a monster, and a fiend.

She was only a jealous, little spoiled fool of a woman; and I am sure those who read her history
have never met with her like, or have ever plagued their husbands. Certainly they have not,
if they are not married: as, let us hope, they will be.

As for Vincent, he persists in saying that the defence is a fib from beginning to end, and
that the Trotters were agreed to deceive Lady Raikes. But who hasn't had his best actions misinterpreted
by calumny? And what innocence or good will can disarm jealousy?

       *       *       *       *       *

Very different from THACKARAY is the genial Mrs. S. C. HALL, from whom we have

EDWARD LAYTON'S REWARD.

"I could not have believed it!" exclaimed Mrs. Pierce Bradshaw. "I could not have believed
it!" she repeated, over and over again; and she fell into a fit of abstraction.

Her husband, who had been glancing wearily over a magazine, turning leaf after leaf without
reading, or perhaps seeing even the heading of a page, at length said, "I could!"

"You have large faith, my dear," observed the lady.

"Fortunately for Selina, I had no faith in him," was the reply.

Mrs. Pierce Bradshaw was not an eloquent person; she never troubled her husband or any one
else with many words; so she only murmured, in a subdued tone, "Fortunately, indeed!"

"What a fellow he was!" said Mr. P. Bradshaw, as he closed the magazine. "Do you remember how
delighted you were with him the evening of the tableaux at Lady Westrophe's? There was something
so elegant and dignified in his bearing; so much ease and grace of manner; his address was
perfect--the confidence of a well-bred gentleman, subdued almost, but not quite, into softness
by the timidity of youth. This was thrown into strong relief by the manners of the young men
of the family, whose habits and voices might have entitled them to take the lead, even now,
in the go-a-head school, which then was hardly in existence--at all events in England."

"You were quite as much taken with him as I was."

"No, my dear, not quite. Edward Layton was especially suited for the society of ladies. His
tastes and feelings are--or were at that time--all sincerely refined; he was full of the impulse
of talent, which he never had strength to bring forth: his thoughts were ever wandering, and
he needed perpetual excitement, particularly the excitement of beauty and music, to bring them
and keep them where he was. He was strongly and strangely moved by excellence of any kind,
so that it was excellence; and the only thing I ever heard him express contempt for was wealth!--yes
wealth!"

"I could not have believed it," said Mrs. Pierce Bradshaw again.

"That particular night it was whispered he was engaged to Lelia Medwin. When she sung, he stood
like a young Apollo at her harp, too entranced to turn over the leaves of music, his eyes overflowing
with delight, and the poor little girl so bewitched by his attentions that she fancied every
whisper a declaration of love."

"Shameful!" said Mrs. Pierce Bradshaw.

"Then her mother showed every one what a lovely sketch he had made of Lelia's head, adding,
that indeed it was too lovely; but then, he was a partial judge."

"She was a silly woman," observed the lady.

"She would not have been considered so if they had been married," replied the gentleman. "Mammas
have no mercy on each other in those delicate manoeuvrings.

"Such men----" exclaimed Mrs. Pierce Bradshaw. She did not finish the sentence, but looked
as if such men ought to be exterminated. And so they ought!

"There was so much about him that I liked: his fine talents, good manners, excellent position
in society, added to his good nature, and----"

"Good fortune," added Mrs. Pierce Bradshaw.

"No, Mary," said her husband, quietly, "I never was a mammon worshipper. This occurred, if
you remember, before the yellow pestilence had so completely subverted London, that the very
aristocracy knelt and worshipped the golden calf; and no blame to the calf to receive the homage,
whatever we may say of those who paid it.

"I did not mean that as a reproof, Pierce," replied his wife, most truly. "I think it quite
natural to like young men of fortune--we could not get on without them, you know; and it would
be very imprudent--very imprudent, indeed--to invite any young man, however excellent. When
we want to get these young girls, our poor nieces, off, I declare it is quite melancholy. Jane
is becoming serious since she has grown so thin; and I fear the men will think Belle a blue,
she has so taken to the British Museum. Oh, how I wish people would live, and bring up, and
get off their own daughters! Four marriageable nieces, with such farthing fortunes, are enough
to drive any poor aunt distracted!"

This was the longest speech Mrs. Bradshaw ever made in her life, and she sighed deeply at its
conclusion.

"You may well sigh!" laughed the gentleman; "for the case seems hopeless. But I was going to
say, that as I knew him better, I was really going to take the young gentleman a little to
task on the score of his philandering. Lelia was really attached to him, and had refused a
very advantageous offer for his sake; but the very next week, at another house, I found him
enchained by a sparkling widow--correcting her drawings, paying the homage of intelligent silence
and sweet smiles to her wit, leaning his white-gloved hand upon her chair, and looking in her
eyes with his most bewitching softness. The extent of this flirtation no one could anticipate;
but the sudden appearance of Lady Di' Johnson effected a total change. She drove four-in-hand,
and was a dead shot--the very antipodes of sentiment. We said her laugh would drive Edward
Layton distracted, and her cigarette be his death. But, no! the magnificence of her tomboyism
caught his fancy. He enshrined her at once as Diana, bayed the moon with hunting-songs, wrote
a sonnet to the chase, and then, with his own hands, twisted it into a cigarette, with which
her ladyship puffed it to the winds of heaven, while wandering with the Lothario amid a grove
of fragrant limes. The miracle was, that at breakfast the next morning Lady Di' was subdued,
voted driving unfeminine, and asked Edward to take the reins for her after lunch. You remember
we left them there; and I next met him at Killarney, giving his chestnut locks to the breeze,
his arm to the oar, and his eyes to a lady of blue-stocking celebrity, who, never having had
many lovers, was inclined to make the most of the present one. Circumstances rendered me acquainted
with some facts relating to his 'flirtations,' if his soft and sentimental ways could be called
by such a name. I had seen poor Lelia at Baden-Baden; and I dare say you can recall what we
heard of another love of his nearer home. Well, I encountered my Hero of Ladies that very evening,
wandering amid the ruined aisles of Mucross Abbey. I saw that his impressible nature had taken
a thoughtful, if not a religious tone, from the scene. And he commenced the conversation by
declaring, that 'He was a great fool.'"

"Knave, rather," said Mrs. Pierce Bradshaw.

"No," replied her husband; "not a knave, but a singular example of a man whose feelings and
susceptibilities never deepen into affection--unstable as water--tossed hither and thither
for want of fixed principles, and suffering intensely in his better moods from the knowledge
of the weakness he has not the courage to overcome. I was not inclined to let him spare himself,
and did not contradict his opinion that he was a 'fool,' but told him he might be what he pleased
himself, as long as he did not make fools of others."

"'I tell every woman I know that I am not a marrying man,' he replied.

"'That,' I said, 'does not signify as long as you act the lover, each fair one believing you
will revoke in her favor.'

"'I give you my honor,' he exclaimed, 'as a man and a gentleman, I never entertained for twenty-four
hours the idea of marrying any woman I ever knew.'"

"The villain!" exclaimed the lady. "I hope, Pierce, you told him he was a villain!"

"No; because I knew the uncertainty of his disposition: but I lectured him fully and honestly,
and yet said nothing to him so severe as what he said of himself. I told him he would certainly
be caught in the end by some unworthy person, and then he would look back with regret and misery
upon the chances he had lost, and the unhappiness he had caused to those whose only faults
had been in believing him true when he was false."

"'Better that,' he answered, 'than marrying when he could not make up his mind.'

"'Then why play the lover?'

"'He only did so while infatuated--he was certain to find faults where he imagined perfection.'"

"What assurance!" said Mrs. Pierce Bradshaw.

"'I am sure,' I said, 'Lelia was very charming. Lelia Medwin was an excellent, amiable little
creature, with both good temper and good sense.'

"'That was it,' he said: 'only fancy the six-foot-one-and-three-quarters wedded to bare five
feet! The absurdity struck me one night as we were waltzing and whirling past a looking-glass;
I was obliged to bend double, though I never felt it till I saw it.'"

"Really, I have not patience," observed Mrs. Bradshaw. "And so her feelings were to be trampled
upon because she was not tall enough to please him! Why did he not think of that before?"

"'But there was Lizzy Grey, related to half the aristocracy, with a voice like an angel.'

"'A vixen,' he said, 'though of exquisite beauty--could have torn my eyes out for the little
attention I paid Mrs. Green.'

"'Little attention!' I repeated; 'more than little.'

"'Her wit was delicious,' he replied; 'but she was a widow! Only fancy the horror of being
compared with 'My dear first husband!'

"'Then your conquest of Lady Di' Johnson! How badly you behaved to her!'

"'She was magnificent on horseback; and her cigarette as fascinating as the fan of a Madrid
belle, or the tournure of a Parisian lady. They were her two points. But when she relinquished
both, I believe in compliment to me, she became even more commonplace than the most commonplace
woman.'"

"The puppy!" muttered the lady: "the dreadful puppy! I could not have believed it!"

Mr. Bradshaw did not heed the interruption, but continued:

"'And who,' I inquired, 'was the Lady of the Lake? I do not mean of this lake, for I see her
reign is already over--your passion expired with the third chapter of her novel, which I know
she read to you by moonlight--but the fair Lady of Geneva, whose betrothed called you out?'

"'Her father was a sugar-boiler,' was the quiet reply: 'a sugar-boiler, or something of the
kind. What would my aristocratic mother say to that? Of course I could have had no serious
intention there. Indeed I never had a serious intention for a whole week.'

"'But, my dear fellow, when presents are given, and letters written, and locks of hair and
vows exchanged----'

"'No, no!' he exclaimed; 'no vows exchanged! I never broke my word to a woman yet. It was admiration
for this or that--respect, esteem, perhaps a tender bewilderment--mere brotherly love. And
in that particular instance her intended got angry at my civility. I know I was wrong; and,
to confess the truth, I am ashamed of that transaction--it taught me a lesson; and, but for
the confounded vacillation of my taste and temper, I might perhaps have been a Benedick before
this. You may think it puppyism, if you please; but I am really sorry when I make an impression,
and resolve never to attempt it again: but the next fine voice, or fine eyes----'

"'Or cigarette,' I suggested; and then I said as much as one man can say to another, for you
know a woman can say much more to a man in the way of reproof than he would bear from his own
sex; but he silenced me very quickly by regrets and good resolutions. It was after that our
little niece, Selina, made an impression upon him."

"I did not know all you have now told me," expostulated his wife. "I own I thought it would
have been a good match for Selina; and he was evidently deeply smitten before he knew she was
your niece. I managed it beautifully; but you cut the matter short by offending him."

"There, say no more about it," said the sensible husband; "you thought your blue-eyed, fair-haired,
doll-like favorite, could have enchained a man who had escaped heart-whole from the toils of
the richest and rarest in the land. It really is fearful to see how women not only tolerate,
but pursue this sort of men. You call them 'villains,' and I know not what, when you are foiled;
but if you succeed, you temper it; they have been a little wild, to be sure--but then, and
then, and then--you really could not refuse your daughter; and add, "Men are such creatures
that if the world knew but all, he is not worse than others."

"For shame, Pierce! how can you?" said the lady.

"I told him then," continued Mr. Bradshaw, "that he would take 'the crooked stick at last;'
but that he should not add a tress of Selina's hair to his collection, to be turned over by
his WIFE one of those days. Of course he was very indignant, and we parted; but I did not think
my prophecy would come true so soon. I have long since given up speculating how marriages will
turn out, for it is quite impossible to tell. If women could be shut up in a harem, as in the
East, a man who was ashamed of his wife might go into society without her; but for a refined
and well-educated gentleman, as Edward Layton certainly is, to be united to the widow of a
sugar-boiler!--yes, absolutely!--who is an inch shorter than pretty Lelia and more tiger-headed
than Lizzy Grey, and who declares she hates music, although her dear first husband took her
hoften to the Hopera--who adds deformity to shortness, talks loudly of the hinfluence of wealth,
and compares the presentations at the Mansion House, that she has seen, to those at St. James's
which she has not yet seen! Verily, Edward Layton has had his reward!"

       *       *       *       *       *

BULWER LYTTON contributes to the "Keepsake" an essay, characteristic of his earlier rather
than of his later style:

THE CONFIRMED VALETUDINARIAN.

Certainly there is truth in the French saying, that there is no ill without something of good.
What state more pitiable to the eye of a man of robust health than that of the Confirmed Valetudinarian?
Indeed, there is no one who has a more profound pity for himself than your Valetudinarian;
and yet he enjoys two of the most essential requisites for a happy life; he is never without
an object of interest, and he is perpetually in pursuit of hope.

Our friend Sir George Malsain is a notable case in point: young, well born, rich, not ill educated,
and with some ability, they who knew him formerly, in what were called his "gay days," were
accustomed to call him "lucky dog," and "enviable fellow." How shallow is the judgment of mortals!
Never was a poor man so bored--nothing interested him. His constitution seemed so formed for
longevity, and his condition so free from care, that he was likely to have a long time before
him:--it is impossible to say how long that time seemed to him. Fortunately, from some accidental
cause or other, he woke one morning and found himself ill; and, whether it was the fault of
the doctor or himself I cannot pretend to say, but he never got well again. His ailments became
chronic; he fell into a poor way. From that time life has assumed to him a new aspect. Always
occupied with himself, he is never bored. He may be sick, sad, suffering, but he has found
his object in existence--he lives to be cured. His mind is fully occupied; his fancy eternally
on the wing. Formerly he had travelled much, but without any pleasure in movement: he might
as well have stayed at home. Now, when he travels, it is for an end; it is delightful to witness
the cheerful alertness with which he sets about it. He is going down the Rhine;--for its scenery?
Pshaw! he never cared a button about scenery; but he has great hopes of the waters at Kreuznach.
He is going into Egypt;--to see the Pyramids? Stuff! the climate on the Nile is so good for
the mucous membrane! Set him down at the dullest of dull places, and he himself is never dull.
The duller the place the better; his physician has the more time to attend to him. When you
meet him he smiles on you, and says, poor fellow, "The doctor assures me that in two years
I shall be quite set up." He has said the same thing the last twenty years, and will say it
the day before his death!...

What a busy, anxious, fidgety creature Ned Worrell was? That iron frame supported all the business
of all society! Every man who wanted any thing done, asked Ned Worrell to do it. And do it
Ned Worrell did! You remember how feelingly he was wont to sigh,--"Upon my life I'm a perfect
slave." But now Ned Worrell has snapped his chain; obstinate dyspepsia, and a prolonged nervous
debility, have delivered him from the carks and cares of less privileged mortals. Not Ariel
under the bough is more exempt from humanity than Edward Worrell. He is enjoined to be kept
in a state of perfect repose, free from agitation, and hermetically shut out from grief. His
wife pays his bills, and he is only permitted to see his banker's accounts when the balance
in his favor is more than usually cheerful. His eldest daughter, an intelligent young lady,
reads his letters, and only presents to him those which are calculated to make a pleasing impression.
Call now on your old friend, on a question of life and death, to ask his advice, or request
his interference--you may as well call on King Cheops under the Great Pyramid. The whole houseguard
of tender females block the way.

"Mr. Worrell is not to be disturbed on any matter of business whatever," they will tell you.
"But, my dear ma'am, he is trusted to my marriage settlement; his signature is necessary to
a transfer of my wife's fortune from those cursed railway shares. To-morrow they will be down
at zero. We shall be ruined!"

"Mr. Worrell is in a sad, nervous way, and can't be disturbed, sir." And the door is shut in
your face!

It was after some such occurrence that I took into earnest consideration a certain sentiment
of Plato's, which I own I had till then considered very inhuman; for that philosopher is far
from being the tender and sensitive gentleman generally believed in by lovers and young ladies.
Plato, in his "Republic," blames Herodicus (one of the teachers of that great doctor Hippocrates)
for showing to delicate, sickly persons, the means whereby to prolong their valetudinary existence,
as Herodicus himself (naturally a very rickety fellow) had contrived to do. Plato accuses this
physician of having thereby inflicted a malignant and wanton injury on those poor persons;--nay,
not only an injury on them, but on all society. "For," argues this stern, broad-shouldered
Athenian, "how can people be virtuous who are always thinking of their own infirmities?" And
therefore he opines, that if a sickly person cannot wholly recover health and become robust,
the sooner he dies the better for himself and others! The wretch, too, might be base enough
to marry, and have children as ailing as their father, and so injure, in perpetuo, the whole
human race. Away with him!

But, upon cool and dispassionate reflection, it seemed to me, angry as I was with Ned Worrell,
that Plato stretched the point a little too far; and certainly, in the present state of civilization,
so sweeping a condemnation of the sickly would go far towards depopulating Europe. Celsus,
for instance, classes amongst the delicate or sickly the greater part of the inhabitants of
towns, and nearly all literary folks (omnesque pene cupidi literarum). And if we thus made
away with the denizens of the towns, it would be attended with a great many inconveniencies
as to shopping, &c., be decidedly injurious to house property, and might greatly affect the
state of the funds; while, without literary folks, we should be very dull in our healthy country-seats,
deprived of newspapers, novels, and "The Keepsake." Wherefore, on the whole, I think Herodicus
was right; and that sickly persons should not only be permitted but encouraged to live as long
as they can.

That proposition granted, if in this attempt to show that your confirmed Valetudinarian is
not so utterly miserable as he is held to be by those who throw physic to the dogs--and that
in some points he may be a decided gainer by his physical sufferings--I have not wholly failed--then
I say, with the ingenious Author who devoted twenty years to a work "On the Note of the Nightingale,"--"I
have not lived in vain!"

CHAPTER VI.

Reader, can you go back for twenty years? You do it every day. You say, "Twenty years ago I
was a boy--twenty years ago I was a youth--twenty years ago I played at peg-top and at marbles--twenty
years ago I wooed--was loved--I sinned--I suffered!" What is there in twenty years that should
keep us from going back over them? You go on so fast, so smoothly, so easily on the forward
course--why not in retrogression? But let me tell you: it makes a very great difference whether
Hope or Memory drives the coach.

But let us see what we can do. Twenty years before the period at which the last chapter broke
off, Philip Hastings, now a father of a girl of fifteen, was a lad standing by the side of
his brother's grave. Twenty years ago Sir John Hastings was the living lord of these fine lands
and broad estates. Twenty years ago he passed, from the mouth of the vault in which he had
laid the clay of the first-born, into the open splendor of the day, and felt sorrow's desolation
in the sunshine. Twenty years ago, he had been confronted on the church-yard path by a tall
old woman, and challenged with words high and stern, to do her right in regard to a paltry
rood or two of land. Twenty years ago he had given her a harsh, cold answer, and treated her
menaces with impatient scorn.

Do you remember her, reader? Well, if you do, that brings us to the point I sought to reach
in the dull flat expanse of the far past; and we can stand and look around us for awhile.

That old woman was not one easily to forget or lightly to yield her resentments. There was
something perdurable in them as well as in her gaunt, sinewy frame. As she stood there menacing
him, she wanted but three years of seventy. She had battled too with many a storm--wind and
weather, suffering and persecution, sorrow and privation, had beat upon her hard--very hard.
They had but served to stiffen and wither and harden, however. Her corporeal frame, shattered
as it seemed, was destined to outlive many of the young and fair spirit-tabernacles around
it--to pass over, by long years, the ordinary allotted space of human life; and it seemed as
if even misfortune had with her but a preserving power. It is not wonderful, however, that,
while it worked thus upon her body, it should likewise have stiffened and withered and hardened
her heart.

I am not sure that conscience itself went untouched in this searing process. It is not clear
at all that even her claim upon Sir John Hastings was not an unjust one; but just or unjust
his repulse sunk deep and festered.

Let us trace her from the church-yard after she met him. She took her path away from the park
and the hamlet, between two cottages, the ragged boys at the doors of which called her "Old
Witch," and spoke about a broom-stick.

She heeded them little: there were deeper offences rankling at her heart.

She walked on, across a corn-field and a meadow, and then she came upon some woodlands, through
which a little sandy path wound its way, round stumps of old trees long cut down, amidst young
bushes and saplings just springing up, and catching the sunshine here and there through the
bright-tinted foliage overhead. Up the hill it went, over the slope on which the copse was
scattered, and then burst forth again on the opposite side of wood and rise, where the ground
fell gently the other way, looking down upon the richly dressed grounds of Colonel Marshall,
at the distance of some three miles.

Not more than a hundred yards distant was poor man's cottage, with an old gray thatch which
wanted some repairing, and was plentifully covered with herbs, sending the threads of their
roots into the straw. A little badly cultivated garden, fenced off from the hill-side by a
loose stone wall, surrounded the house, and a gate without hinges gave entrance to this inclosed
space.

The old woman went in and approached the cottage door. When near it she stopped and listened,
lifting one of the flapping ears of her cotton cap to aid the dull sense of hearing. There
were no voices within; but there was a low sobbing sound issued forth as if some one were in
bitter distress.

"I should not wonder if she were alone," said the old woman; "the ruffian father is always
out; the drudging mother goes about this time to the town. They will neither stay at home,
I wot, to grieve for him they let too often into that door, nor to comfort her he has left
desolate. But it matters little whether they be in or out. It were better to talk to her first.
I will give her better than comfort--revenge, if I judge right. They must play their part afterwards."

Thus communing with herself, she laid her hand upon the latch and opened the door. In an attitude
of unspeakable grief sat immediately before her a young and exceedingly beautiful girl, of
hardly seventeen years of age. The wheel stood still by her side; the spindle had fallen from
her hands; her head was bowed down as with sorrow she could not bear up against; and her eyes
were dropping tears like rain.

The moment she heard the door open she started, and looked up with fear upon her face, and
strove to dash the tears from her eyes; but the old woman bespoke her softly, saying, "Good
even, my dear; is your mother in the place?"

"No," replied the girl; "she has gone to sell the lint, and father is out too. It is very lonely,
and I get sad here."

"I do not wonder at it, poor child," said the old woman; "you have had a heavy loss, my dear,
and may well cry. You can't help what is past, you know; but we can do a good deal for what
is to come, if we but take care and make up our minds in time."

Many and strange were the changes of expression which came upon the poor girl's face as she
heard these few simple words. At first her cheek glowed hot, as with the burning blush of shame;
then she turned pale and trembled, gazing inquiringly in her visitor's face, as if she would
have asked, "Am I detected?" and then she cast down her eyes again, still pale as ashes, and
the tears rolled forth once more and fell upon her lap.

The old woman sat down beside her, and talked to her tenderly; but, alas! very cunningly too.
She assumed far greater knowledge than she possessed. She persuaded the poor girl that there
was nothing to conceal from her; and what neither father nor mother knew, was told that day
to one comparatively a stranger. Still the old woman spoke tenderly--ay, very tenderly; excused
her fault--made light of her fears--gave her hope--gave her strength. But all the time she
concealed her full purpose. That was to be revealed by degrees. Whatever had been the girl's
errors, she was too innocent to be made a party to a scheme of fraud and wrong and vengeance
at once. All that the woman communicated was blessed comfort to a bruised and bleeding heart;
and the poor girl leaned her head upon her old companion's shoulder, and, amidst bitter tears
and sobs and sighs, poured out every secret of her heart.

But what is that she says, which makes the old woman start with a look of triumph?

"Letters!" she exclaimed; "two letters: let me see them, child--let me see them! Perhaps they
may be more valuable than you think."

The girl took them from her bosom, where she kept them as all that she possessed of one gone
that day into the tomb.

The old woman read them with slow eyes, but eager attention; and then gave them back, saying,
"That one you had better destroy as soon as possible--it tells too much. But this first one
keep, as you value your own welfare--as you value your child's fortune, station, and happiness.
You can do much with this. Why, here are words that may make your father a proud man. Hark!
I hear footsteps coming. Put them up--we must go to work cautiously, and break the matter to
your parents by degrees."

It was the mother of the girl who entered; and she seemed faint and tired. Well had the old
woman called her a drudge, for such she was--a poor patient household drudge, laboring for
a hard, heartless, idle, and cunning husband, and but too tenderly fond of the poor girl whose
beauty had been a snare to her.

She seemed somewhat surprised to see the old woman there; for they were of different creeds,
and those creeds made wide separation in the days I speak of. Perhaps she was surprised and
grieved to see the traces of tears and agitation on her daughter's face; but of that she took
no notice; for there were doubts and fears at her heart which she dreaded to confirm. The girl
was more cheerful, however, than she had been for the last week--not gay, not even calm; but
yet there was a look of some relief.

Often even after her mother's entrance, the tears would gather thick in her eyes when she thought
of the dead; but it was evident that hope had risen up: that the future was not all darkness
and terror. This was a comfort to her; and she spoke and looked cheerfully. She had sold all
the thread of her and her daughter's spinning, and she had sold it well. Part she hid in a
corner to keep a pittance for bread from her husband's eyes; part she reserved to give up to
him for the purchase of drink: but while she made all these little arrangements, she looked
somewhat anxiously at the old woman, from time to time, as if she fain would have asked, "What
brought you here?"

The crone was cautious, however, and knew well with whom she had to deal. She talked in solemn
and oracular tones, as if she had possessed all the secrets of fate, but she told nothing,
and when she went away she said in a low voice but authoritative manner, "Be kind to your girl--be
very kind; for she will bring good luck and fortune to you all." The next day she laid wait
for the husband, found and forced him to stop and hear her. At first he was impatient, rude,
and brutal; swore, cursed, and called her many and evil names. But soon he listened eagerly
enough: looks of intelligence and eager design passed between the two, and ere they parted
they perfectly understood each other.

The man was then, on more than one day, seen going down to the hall. At first he was refused
admission to Sir John Hastings; for his character was known. The next day, however, he brought
a letter written under his dictation by his daughter, who had been taught at a charitable school
of old foundation hard by; and this time he was admitted. His conversation with the Lord of
the Manor was long; but no one knew its import. He came again and again, and was still admitted.

A change came over the cottage and its denizens. The fences were put in order, the walls were
repaired, the thatch renewed, another room or two was added; plenty reigned within; mother
and daughter appeared in somewhat finer apparel; and money was not wanting.

At the end of some months there was the cry of a young child in the house. The neighbors were
scandalized, and gossips spoke censoriously even in the father's ears; but he stopped them
fiercely, with proud and mysterious words; boasted aloud of what they had thought his daughter's
shame; and claimed a higher place for her than was willingly yielded to her companions. Strange
rumors got afloat, but ere a twelvemonth had passed, the father had drank himself to death.
His widow and her daughter and her grandson moved to a better house, and lived at ease on money
none knew the source of, while the cottage, now neat and in good repair, became the dwelling
of the old woman, who had been driven with scorn from Sir John's presence. Was she satisfied--had
she sated herself? Not yet.

CHAPTER VII.

There was a lady, a very beautiful lady indeed, came to a lonely house, which seemed to have
been tenanted for several years by none but servants, about three years after the death of
Sir John Hastings. That house stood some miles to the north of the seat of that gentleman,
which now had passed to his son; and it was a fine-looking place, with a massive sort of solemn
brick-and-mortar grandeur about it, which impressed the mind with a sense of the wealth and
long-standing of its owners.

The plural has slipped from my pen, and perhaps it is right; for the house looked as if it
had had many owners, and all of them had been rich.

Now, there was but one owner,--the lady who descended from that lumbering, heavy coach, with
the two great leathern wings on each side of the door. She was dressed in widow's weeds, and
she had every right to wear them. Though two-and-twenty only, she stood there orphan, heiress,
and widow. She had known many changes of condition, but not of fate, and they did not seem
to have affected her much. Of high-born and proud parentage, she had been an only child for
many years before her parents' death. She had been spoiled, to use a common, but not always
appropriate phrase; for there are some people who cannot be spoiled, either because the ethereal
essence within them is incorruptible, or because there is no ethereal essence to spoil at all.
However, she had been spoiled very successfully by fate, fortune, and kind friends. She had
never been contradicted in her life; she had never been disappointed--but once. She had travelled,
seen strange countries--which was rare in those days with women--had enjoyed many things. She
had married a handsome, foolish man, whom she chose--few knew rightly why. She had lost both
her parents not long after; got tired of her husband, and lost him too, just when the loss
could leave little behind but a decent regret, which she cultivated as a slight stimulant to
keep her mind from stagnating. And now, without husband, child, or parents, she returned to
the house of her childhood, which she had not seen for five long years.

Is that all her history? No, not exactly all. There is one little incident which may as well
be referred to here. Her parents had entered into an arrangement for her marriage with a very
different man from him whom she afterwards chose,--Sir Philip Hastings; and foolishly they
had told her of what had been done, before the young man's own assent had been given. She did
not see much of him--certainly not enough to fall in love with him. She even thought him a
strange, moody youth; but yet there was something in his moodiness and eccentricity which excited
her fancy. The reader knows that he chose for himself; and the lady also married immediately after.

Thus had passed for her a part of life's pageant; and now she came to her own native dwelling,
to let the rest march by as it might. At first, as she slowly descended from the carriage,
her large, dark, brilliant eyes were fixed upon the ground. She had looked long at the house
as she was driving towards it, and it seemed to have cast her into a thoughtful mood. It is
hardly possible to enter a house where we have spent many early years, without finding memory
suddenly seize upon the heart and possess it totally. What a grave it is! What a long line
of buried ancestors may not the present always contemplate there.

Nor are there many received into the tomb worth so much respect as one dead hour. All else
shall live again; lost hours have no resurrection.

There were old servants waiting around, to welcome her, new ones attending upon her orders;
but for a moment or two she noticed no one, till at length the old housekeeper, who knew her
from a babe, spoke out, saying, "Ah, madam! I do not wonder to see you a little sad on first
coming to the old place again, after all that has happened."

"Ah, indeed, Arnold," replied the lady, "many sad things have happened since we parted. But
how are you, Goody? You look blooming:" and walking into the house, she heard the reply in
the hall.

From the hall, the old housekeeper led her lady through the house, and mightily did she chatter
and gossip by the way. The lady listened nearly in silence; for Mrs. Arnold was generous in
conversation, and spared her companion all expense of words. At length, however, something
she said seemed to rouse her mistress, and she exclaimed with a somewhat bitter laugh, "And
so the good people declared I was going to be married to Sir Philip Hastings?"

"Mr. Hastings he was then, madam," answered the housekeeper; "to be sure they did. All the
country around talked of it, and the tenants listened at church to hear the banns proclaimed."

The lady turned very red, and the old woman went on to say, "Old Sir John seemed quite sure
of it; but he reckoned without his host, I fancy."

"He did indeed," said the lady with an uncheerful smile, and there the subject dropped for
the time. Not long after, however, the lady herself brought the conversation back to nearly
the same point, asked after Sir Philip's health and manner of living, and how he was liked
in the neighborhood, adding, "He seemed a strange being at the time I saw him, which was only
once or twice--not likely to make a very pleasant husband, I thought."

"Oh dear, yes, madam, he does," answered Mrs. Arnold, "many a worse, I can assure you. He is
very fond of his lady indeed, and gives up more to her than one would think. He is a little
stern, they say, but very just and upright; and no libertine fellow, like his brother who was
drowned--which I am sure was a providence, for if he was so bad when he was young, what would
he have been when he was old?"

"Better, perhaps," replied her mistress, with a quiet smile; "but was he so very wicked? I
never heard any evil of him."

"Oh dear me, madam! do not you know?" exclaimed the old woman; and then came the whole story
of the cotter's daughter on the hill, and how she and her father and old Mother Danby--whom
people believed to be a witch--had persuaded or threatened Sir John Hastings into making rich
people of them.

"Persuaded or threatened Sir John Hastings!" said the lady in a tone of doubt. "I knew him
better than either of his sons; and never did I see a man so little likely to yield to persuasion
or to bow to menace;" and she fell into a deep fit of musing, which lasted long, while the
old housekeeper rambled on from subject to subject, unlistened to, but very well content.

Let us dwell a little on the lady, and on her character. There is always something to interest,
something to instruct, in the character of a woman. It is like many a problem in Euclid, which
seems at first sight as plain and simple as the broad sunshine; but when we come to study it,
we find intricacies beneath which puzzle us mightily to resolve. It is a fine, curious, delicate,
complicated piece of anatomy, a woman's heart. I have dissected many, and I know the fact.
Take and lay that fibre apart--take care, for heaven's sake! that you do not tear the one next
to it; and be sure you do not dissever the fragments which bind those most opposite parts together!
See, here lies a muscle of keen sensibility; and there--what is that? A cartilage, hard as
a nether millstone. Look at those light, irritable nerves, quivering at the slightest touch;
and then see those tendons, firm, fixed, and powerful as the resolution of a martyr. Oh, that
wonderful piece of organization! who can describe it accurately?

I must not pretend to do so; but I will give a slight sketch of the being before me.

There she stands, somewhat above the usual height, but beautifully formed, with every line
rounded and flowing gracefully into the others. There is calmness and dignity in the whole
air, and in every movement; but yet there is something very firm, very resolute, very considerate,
in the fall of that small foot upon the carpet. She cannot intend her foot to stay there for
ever; and yet, when she sets it down, one would be inclined to think she did. Her face is very
beautiful--every feature finely cut--the eyes almost dazzling in their dark brightness. How
chaste, how lovely the fine lines of that mouth. Yet do you see what a habit she has of keeping
the pearly teeth close shut--one pure row pressed hard against the other. The slight sarcastic
quiver of the upper lip does not escape you; and the expanded nostril and flash of the eye,
contradicted by the fixed motionless mouth.

Such is her outward appearance, such is she too within--though the complexion there is somewhat
darker. Much that, had it been cultivated and improved, would have blossomed into womanly virtue;
a capability of love, strong, fiery, vehement, changeless--not much tenderness--not much pity,--no
remorse--are there. Pride, of a peculiar character, but strong, ungovernable, unforgiving,
and a power of hate and thirst of vengeance, which only pride can give, are there likewise.
Super-add a shrewdness--a policy--a cunning--nay, something greater--something approaching
the sublime--a divination, where passion is to be gratified, that seldom leads astray from
the object.

Yes, such is the interior of that fair temple, and yet, how calm, sweet, and promising it stands.

I have omitted much perhaps; for the human heart is like the caldron of the witches in Macbeth,
and one might go on throwing in ingredients till the audience became tired of the song. However,
what I have said will be enough for the reader's information; and if we come upon any unexplained
phenomena, I must endeavor to elucidate them hereafter.

Let us suppose the lady's interview with her housekeeper at an end--all her domestic arrangements
made--the house restored to its air of habitation--visits received and paid. Amongst the earliest
visitors were Sir Philip and Lady Hastings. He came frankly, and in one of his most happy moods,
perfectly ignorant that she had ever been made aware of there having been a marriage proposed
between himself and her; and she received him and his fair wife with every appearance of cordiality.
But as soon as these visits and all the ceremonies were over, the lady began to drive much
about the country, and to collect every tale and rumor she could meet with of all the neighboring
families. Her closest attention, however, centred upon those affecting the Hastings' race;
and she found the whole strange story of the cottage girl confirmed, with many another particular
added. She smiled when she heard this--smiled blandly--it seemed to give her pleasure. She
would fain have called upon the girl and her mother too. She longed to do so, and to draw forth
with skill, of which she possessed no small share, the key secret of the whole. But her station,
her reputation, prevented her from taking a step which she knew might be noised abroad and
create strange comments.

She resolved upon another move, however, which she thought would do as well. There would be
no objection to her visiting her poorer neighbors, to comfort, to relieve; and she went to
the huts of many. At length one early morning, on a clear autumn day, the carriage was left
below on the high road, and the lady climbed the hill alone towards the cottage, where the
girl and her parents formerly lived. She found the old woman, who was now its occupant, busily
cooking her morning meal; and sitting down, she entered into conversation with her. At first
she could obtain but little information; the old woman was in a sullen mood, and would not
speak of any thing she did not like. Money was of no avail to unlock her eloquence.

She had never asked or taken charity, the old woman said, and now she did not need it.

The lady pondered for a few minutes, considering the character of her ancient hostess, trying
it by her experience and intuition; and thus she boldly asked her for the whole history of
young John Hastings and the cottage girl.

"Tell me all," she said, "for I wish to know it--I have an interest in it."

"Ay?" said the old woman, gazing at her, "then you are the pretty lady Sir Philip was to have
married, but would not have her?"

"The same," replied the visitor, and for an instant a bright red spot arose upon her cheek--a
pang like a knife passed through her heart.

That was the price she paid for the gratification of her curiosity. But it probably was gratified,
for she stayed nearly an hour and a half in the cottage--so long, indeed, that her servants,
who were with the carriage, became alarmed, and one of the footmen walked up the hill. He met
his lady coming down.

"Poor thing," she said, as if speaking of the old woman she had just left, "her senses wander
a little; but she is poor, and has been much persecuted. I must do what I can for her. Whenever
she comes to the house, see she is admitted."

The old woman did come often, and always had a conference with the lady of the mansion; but
here let us leave them for the present. They may appear upon the stage again.

CHAPTER VIII.

    "MY DEAR SIR PHILIP:

"I have not seen you or dear Lady Hastings for many months; nor your sweet Emily either, except
at a distance, when one day she passed my carriage on horseback, sweeping along the hill-side
like a gleam of light. My life is a sad, solitary one here; and I wish my friends would take
more compassion upon me and let me see human faces oftener--especially faces that I love.

"But I know that you are very inexorable in these respects, and, sufficient to yourself, cannot
readily conceive how a lone woman can pine for the society of other more loving friends than
books or nature. I must, therefore, attack the only accessible point I know about you, meaning
your compassion, which you never refuse to those who really require it. Now I do require it
greatly; for I am at this present engaged in business of a very painful and intricate nature,
which I cannot clearly understand, and in which I have no one to advise me but a country attorney,
whose integrity as well as ability I much doubt. To whom can I apply so well as to you, when
I need the counsel and assistance of a friend, equally kind, disinterested, and clear-headed?
I venture to do so, then, in full confidence, and ask you to ride over as soon as you can,
to give me your advice, or rather to decide for me, in a matter where a considerable amount
of property is at stake, and where decision is required immediately. I trust when you do come
you will stay all night, as the business is, I fear, of so complicated a nature, that it may
occupy more than one day of your valuable time in the affairs of

    Your faithful and obliged servant,

    CAROLINE HAZLETON."

"Is Mrs. Hazleton's messenger waiting?" asked Sir Philip Hastings, after having read the letter
and mused for a moment.

The servant answered in the affirmative; and his master rejoined, "Tell him I will not write
an answer, as I have some business to attend to; but I beg he will tell his mistress that I
will be with her in three hours."

Lady Hastings uttered a low-toned exclamation of surprise. She did not venture to ask any question--indeed
she rarely questioned her husband on any subject; but when any thing excited her wonder, or,
as was more frequently the case, her curiosity, she was accustomed to seek for satisfaction
in a somewhat indirect way, by raising her beautiful eyebrows with a doubtful sort of smile,
or, as in the present instance, by exclaiming, "Good gracious! Dear me!" or giving voice to
some other little vocative, with a note of interrogation strongly marked after it.

In this case there was more than one feeling at the bottom of her exclamation. She was surprised;
she was curious; and she was, moreover, in the least degree in the world, jealous. She had
her share of weaknesses, as I have said; and one of them was of a kind less uncommon than may
be supposed. Of her husband's conduct she had no fear--not the slightest suspicion. Indeed,
to have entertained any would have been impossible--but she could not bear to see him liked,
admired, esteemed, by any woman--mark me, I say by any woman; for no one could feel more triumphant
joy than she did when she saw him duly appreciated by men. She was a great monopolizer: she
did not wish one thought of his to be won away from her by another woman; and a sort of irritable
feeling came upon her even when she saw him seated by any young and pretty girl, and paying
her the common attentions of society. She was too well bred to display such sensations except
by those slight indications, or by a certain petulance of manner, which he was not close observer
enough of other people's conduct to remark.

Not to dwell too long on such things, Sir Philip Hastings, though perfectly unconscious of
what was going on in her heart, rarely kept her long in suspense, when he saw any signs of
curiosity. He perhaps might think it a point of Roman virtue to spoil his wife, although she
had very little of the Portia in her character. On the present occasion, he quietly handed
over to her the letter of Mrs. Hazleton; and then summoned a servant and gave orders for various
preparations.

"Had not I and Emily better go with you?" asked Lady Hastings, pointing out to him the passage
in the letter which spoke of the long absence of all the family.

"Not when I am going on business," replied her husband gravely, and quitted the room.

An hour after, Philip Hastings was on horseback with a servant carrying a valise behind him,
and riding slowly through the park. The day was far advanced, and the distance was likely to
occupy about an hour and a half in travelling; but the gentleman had fallen into a reverie,
and rode very slowly. They passed the park gates; they took their way down the lane by the
church and near the parsonage. Here Sir Philip pulled in his horse suddenly, and ordered the
man to ride on and announce that he would be at Mrs. Hazleton's soon after. He then fastened
his horse to a large hook, put up for the express purpose on most country houses of that day
in England, and walked up to the door. It was ajar, and without ceremony he walked in, as he
was often accustomed to do, and entered the little study of the rector.

The clergyman himself was not there; but there were two persons in the room, one a young and
somewhat dashing-looking man, one or two and twenty years of age, exceedingly handsome both
in face and figure; the other personage past the middle age, thin, pale, eager and keen-looking,
in whom Sir Philip instantly recognized a well known, but not very well reputed attorney, of
a country town about twenty miles distant. They had one of the large parish books before them,
and were both bending over it with great appearance of earnestness.

The step of Sir Philip Hastings roused them, and turning round, the attorney bowed low, saying,
"I give you good day, Sir Philip. I hope I have the honor of seeing you well."

"Quite so," was the brief reply, and it was followed by an inquiry for the pastor, who it seemed
had gone into another room for some papers which were required.

In the mean time the younger of the two previous occupants of the room had been gazing at Sir
Philip Hastings with a rude, familiar stare, which the object of it did not remark; and in
another moment the clergyman himself appeared, carrying a bundle of old letters in his hand.

He was a heavy, somewhat timid man, the reverse of his predecessor in all things, but a very
good sort of person upon the whole. On seeing the baronet there, however, something seemed
strangely to affect him--a sort of confused surprise, which, after various stammering efforts,
burst forth as soon as the usual salutation was over, in the words, "Pray, Sir Philip, did
you come by appointment?"

Sir Philip Hastings, as the reader already knows, was a somewhat unobservant man of what was
passing around him in the world. He had his own deep, stern trains of thought, which he pursued
with a passionate earnestness almost amounting to monomania. The actions, words, and even looks
of those few in whom he took an interest, he could sometimes watch and comment on in his own
mind with intense study. True, he watched without understanding, and commented wrongly; for
he had too little experience of the motives of others from outward observation, and found too
little sympathy with the general motives of the world, in his own heart, to judge even those
he loved rightly. But the conduct, the looks, the words of ordinary men, he hardly took the
trouble of remarking; and the good parson's surprise and hesitation, passed like breath upon
a mirror, seen perhaps, but retaining no hold upon his mind for a moment. Neither did the abrupt
question surprise him; nor the quick, angry look which it called up on the face of the attorney
attract his notice; but he replied quietly to Mr. Dixwell, "I do not remember having made any
appointment with you."

The matter was all well so far; and would have continued well; but the attorney, a meddling
fellow, had nearly spoiled all, by calling the attention of Philip Hastings more strongly to
the strangeness of the clergyman's question.

"Perhaps," said the man of law, interrupting the baronet in the midst, "Perhaps Mr. Dixwell
thought, Sir Philip, that you came here to speak with me on the business of the Honorable Mrs.
Hazleton. She told me she would consult you, and I can explain the whole matter to you."

But the clergyman instantly declared that he meant nothing of the kind; and at the same moment
Sir Philip Hastings said, "I beg you will not, sir. Mrs. Hazleton will explain what she thinks
proper to me, herself. I desire no previous information, as I am now on my way to her. Why
my good friend here should suppose I came by appointment, I cannot tell. However, I did not;
and it does not matter. I only wish, Mr. Dixwell, to say, that I hear the old woman Danley
is ill and dying. She is a papist, and the foolish people about fancy she is a witch. Little
help or comfort will she obtain from them, even if they do not injure or insult her. As I shall
be absent all night, and perhaps all to-morrow, I will call at her cottage as I ride over to
Mrs. Hazleton's and inquire into her wants. I will put down on paper, and leave there, what
I wish my people to do for her; but there is one thing which I must request you to do, namely,
to take every means, by exhortation and remonstrance, to prevent the ignorant peasantry from
troubling this poor creature's death-bed. Her sad errors in matters of faith should only at
such a moment make us feel the greater compassion for her."

Mr. Dixwell thought differently, for though a good man, he was a fanatic. He did not indeed
venture to think of disobeying the injunction of the great man of the parish--the man who now
held both the Hastings and the Marshal property; but he would fain have detained Sir Philip
to explain and make clear to him the position--as clear as a demonstration in Euclid to his
own mind--that all Roman Catholics ought to be, at the very least, banished from the country
for ever.

But Sir Philip Hastings was not inclined to listen, and although the good man began the argument
in a solemn tone, his visitor, falling into a fit of thought, walked slowly out of the room,
along the passage, through the door, and mounted his horse, without effectually hearing one
word, though they were many which Mr. Dixwell showered upon him as he followed.

At his return to his little study, the parson found the young man and the lawyer, no longer
looking at the book, but conversing together very eagerly, with excited countenances and quick
gestures. The moment he entered, however, they stopped, the young man ending with an oath,
for which the clergyman reproved him on the spot.

"That is very well, Mr. Dixwell," said the attorney, "and my young friend here will be much
the better for some good admonition; and for sitting under your ministry, as I trust he will,
some day soon; but we must go I fear directly. However, there is one thing I want to say; for
you had nearly spoiled every thing to-day. No person playing at cards--"

"I never touch them," said the parson, with a holy horror in his face.

"Well, others do," said the attorney, "and those who do never show their hand to their opponent.
Now, law is like a game of cards--"

"In which the lawyer is sure to get the odd trick," observed the young man.

"And we must not have Sir Philip Hastings know one step that we are taking," continued the
lawyer. "If you have conscience, as I am sure you have, and honor, as I know you have, you
will not suffer any thing that we have asked you, or said to you, to transpire; for then, of
course, Sir Philip would take every means to prevent our obtaining information."

"I do not think it," said the parson.

"And justice and equity would be frustrated," proceeded the attorney, "which you are bound
by your profession to promote. We want nothing but justice, Mr. Dixwell: justice, I say; and
no one can tell what card Sir Philip may play."

"I will trump it with the knave," said the young man to himself; and having again cautioned
the clergyman to be secret, not without some obscure menaces of danger to himself, if he failed,
the two gentlemen left him, and hurried down, as fast as they could go, to a small alehouse
in the village, where they had left their horses. In a few minutes, a well known poacher, whose
very frequent habitation was the jail or the cage, was seen to issue forth from the door of
the alehouse, then to lead a very showy looking horse from the stable, and then to mount him
and take his way over the hill. The poacher had never possessed a more dignified quadruped
than a dog or a donkey in his life; so that it was evident the horse could not be his. That
he was not engaged in the congenial but dangerous occupation of stealing it, was clear from
the fact of the owner of the beast gazing quietly at him out of the window while he mounted;
and then turning round to the attorney, who sat at a table hard by, and saying, "he is off,
I think."

"Well, let him go," replied the lawyer, "but I do not half like it, Master John. Every thing
in law should be cool and quiet. No violence--no bustle."

"But this is not a matter of law," replied the younger man, "it is a matter of safety, you
fool. What might come of it, if he were to have a long canting talk with the old wretch upon
her death-bed?"

"Very little," replied the attorney, in a calm well-assured tone, "I know her well. She is
as hard as a flint stone. She always was, and time has not softened her. Besides, he has no
one with him to take depositions, and if what you say is true, she'll not live till morning."

"But I tell you, she is getting frightened, as she comes near death!" exclaimed the young man.
"She has got all sorts of fancies into her head; about hell, and purgatory, and the devil knows
what; and she spoke to my mother yesterday about repentance, and atonement, and a pack of stuff
more, and wanted extreme unction, and to confess to a priest. It would be a fine salve, I fancy,
that could patch up the wounds in her conscience; but if this Philip Hastings were to come
to her with his grave face and solemn tone, and frighten her still more, he would get any thing
out of her he pleased."

"I don't think it," answered the lawyer deliberately; "hate, Master John, is the longest lived
passion I know. It lasts into the grave, as I have often seen in making good men's wills when
they were dying--sanctified, good men, I say. Why I have seen a man who has spent half his
fortune in charity, and built alms-houses, leave a thoughtless son, or a runaway daughter,
or a plain-spoken nephew, to struggle with poverty all his life, refusing to forgive him, and
comforting himself with a text or a pretence. No, no; hate is the only possession that goes
out of the world with a man: and this old witch, Danby, hates the whole race of Hastings with
a goodly strength that will not decay as her body does. Besides Sir Philip is well-nigh as
puritanical as his father--a sort of cross-breed between an English fanatic and an old Roman
cynic. She abominates the very sound of his voice, and nothing would reconcile her to him but
his taking the mass and abjuring the errors of Calvin. Ha! ha! ha! However, as you have sent
the fellow, it cannot be helped. Only remember I had nothing to do with it if violence follows.
That man is not to be trusted, and I like to keep on the safe side of the law."

"Ay, doubtless, doubtless," answered the youth, somewhat thoughtfully; "it is your shield;
and better stand behind than before it. However, I don't doubt Tom Cutter in the least. Besides,
I only told him to interrupt them in their talk, and take care they had no private gossip;
to stick there till he was gone, and all that."

"Sir Philip is not a man to bear such interruption," said the attorney, gravely; "he is as
quiet looking as the deep sea on a summer's day; but there can come storms, I tell you, John,
and then woe to those who have trusted the quiet look."

"Then, if he gets in a passion, and mischief comes of it," replied the young man, with a laugh,
"the fault is his, you know, Shanks."

"True," answered the attorney, meditating, "and perhaps, by a little clever twisting and turning,
we might make something of it if he did, were there any other person concerned but this Tom
Cutter, and we had a good serviceable witness or two. But this man is such a rogue that his
word is worth nothing; and to thrash him--though the business of the beadle--would be no discredit
to the magistrate. Besides, he is sure to give the provocation, and one word of Sir Philip's
would be worth a thousand oaths of Tom Cutter's, in any court in the kingdom."

"As to thrashing him, that few can do," replied the youth; "but only remember, Shanks, that
I gave no orders for violence."

"I was not present," replied the attorney, with a grin; "you had better, by a great deal, trust
entirely to me, in these things, Master John. If you do, I will bring you safely through, depend
upon it; but if you do not, nobody can tell what may come. Here comes Folwell, the sexton.
Now hold your tongue, and let me manage him, sir. You are not acquainted with these matters."

CHAPTER IX.

Did you ever examine an ant-hill, dear reader? What a wonderful little cosmos it is--what an
epitome of a great city--of the human race! See how the little fellows run bustling along upon
their several businesses--see how some get out of each other's way, how others jostle, and
others walk over their fellows' heads! But especially mark that black gentleman, pulling hard
to drag along a fat beetle's leg and thigh, three times as large as his own body. He cannot
get it on, do what he will; and yet he tugs away, thinking it a very fine haunch indeed. He
does not perceive, what is nevertheless the fact, that there are two others of his own race
pulling at the other end, and thus frustrating all his efforts.

And thus it is with you, and me, and every one in the wide world. We work blindly, unknowing
the favoring or counteracting causes that are constantly going on around us, to facilitate
or impede our endeavors. The wish to look into futurity is vain, irrational, almost impious;
but what a service would it be to any man if he could but get a sight into Fate's great workshop,
and see only that part in which the events are on the anvil that affect our own proceedings.
Still, even if we did, we might not understand the machinery after all, and only burn or pinch
our fingers in trying to put pieces together which fate did not intend to fit.

In the mean time--that is to say while the attorney and his companion were talking together
at the alehouse--Sir Philip Hastings rode quietly up the hill to the cottage I have before
described, and therefore shall not describe again, merely noticing that it now presented an
appearance of neatness and repair which it had not before possessed. He tied his horse to the
palings, walked slowly up the little path, gazing right and left at the cabbages and carrots
on either side, and then without ceremony went in.

The cottage had two tenants at this time, the invalid old woman, and another, well-nigh as
old but less decrepit, who had been engaged to attend upon her in her sickness. How she got
the money to pay her no one knew, for her middle life and the first stage of old age had been
marked by poverty and distress; but somehow money seems to have a natural affinity for old
age. It grows upon old people, I think, like corns; and certainly she never wanted money now.

There she was, lying in her bed, a miserable object indeed to see. She was like a woman made
of fungus--not of that smooth, putty-like, fleshy fungus which grows in dank places, but of
the rough, rugged, brown, carunculated sort which rises upon old stumps of trees and dry-rot
gate-posts. Teeth had departed nearly a quarter of a century before, and the aquiline features
had become more hooked and beaky for their loss; but the eyes had now lost their keen fire,
and were dull and filmy.

The attorney was quite right. Hate was the last thing to go out in the ashes where the spark
of life itself lingered but faintly. At first she could not see who it was entered the cottage;
for the sight now reached but a short distance from her own face. But the sound of his voice,
as he inquired of the other old woman how she was going on, at once showed her who it was,
and hate at least roused "the dull cold ear of death."

For a moment or two she lay muttering sounds which seemed to have no meaning; but at length
she said, distinctly enough, "Is that Philip Hastings?"

"Yes, my poor woman," said the baronet; "is there any thing I can do for you?"

"Come nearer, come nearer," she replied, "I cannot see you plainly."

"I am close to you, nevertheless," he answered. "I am touching the bed on which you lie."

"Let me feel you," continued she--"give me your hand."

He did as she asked him; and holding by his hand, she made a great struggle to raise herself
in bed; but she could not, and lay exhausted for a minute before she spoke again.

At length, however, she raised her voice louder and shriller than before--"May a curse rest
upon this hand and upon that head!" she exclaimed; "may the hand work its own evil, and the
head its own destruction! May the child of your love poison your peace, and make you a scoff,
and a by-word, and a shame! May the wife of your bosom perish by----"

But Sir Philip Hastings withdrew his hand suddenly, and an unwonted flush came upon his cheek.

"For shame!" he said, in a low stern tone, "for shame!"

The next moment, however, he recovered himself perfectly; and turning to the nurse he added,
"Poor wretch! my presence only seems to excite evil feelings which should long have passed
away, and are not fit counsellors for the hour of death. If there be any thing which can tend
to her bodily comfort that the hall can supply, send up for it. The servants have orders. Would
that any thing could be done for her spiritual comfort; for this state is terrible to witness."

"She often asks for a priest, your worship," said the nurse. "Perhaps if she could see one
she might think better before she died."

"Alas, I doubt it," replied the visitor; "but at all events we cannot afford her that relief.
No such person can be found here."

"I don't know, Sir Philip," said the old woman, with a good deal of hesitation; "they do say
that at Carrington, there is--there is what they call a seminary."

"You do not mean a papist college!" exclaimed the baronet, with unfeigned surprise and consternation.

"Oh, dear, no sir," replied the nurse, "only a gentleman--a seminary--a seminary priest, I
think they call it; a papist certainly; but they say he is a very good gentleman, all but that."

Sir Philip mused for a minute or two, and then turned to the door, saying, "Methinks it is
hard that a dying woman cannot have the consolations of the rites of her own faith--mummery
though they be. As a magistrate, my good woman, I can give no authority in this business. You
must do as you think fit. I myself know of no priest in this neighborhood, or I should be bound
to cause his apprehension. I shall take no notice of your word, however, and as to the rest,
you must, as I have said, act as you think fit. I did not make the laws, and I may think them
cruel. Did I make them, I would not attempt to shackle the conscience of any one. Farewell,"
and passing through the door, he remounted his horse and rode away.

It was in the early autumn time of the year, and the scene was peculiarly lovely. I have given
a slight description of it before, but I must pause and dwell upon it once more, even as Sir
Philip Hastings paused and dwelt upon its loveliness at that moment, although he had seen and
watched it a thousand times before. He was not very impressible by fine scenery. Like the sages
of Laputa, his eyes were more frequently turned inwards than outwards; but there was something
in that landscape which struck a chord in his heart, that is sure to vibrate easily in the
heart of every one of his countrymen.

It was peculiarly English--I might say singularly English; for I have never seen any thing
of exactly the same character anywhere else but in Old England--except indeed in New England,
where I know not whether it be from the country having assimilated itself to the people, or
from the people having chosen the country from the resemblance to their own paternal dwelling
place, many a scene strikes the eye which brings back to the wandering Englishman all the old,
dear feelings of his native land, and for a moment he may well forget that the broad Atlantic
rolls between him and the home of his youth.

But let me return to my picture. Sir Philip Hastings sat upon his horse's back, very nearly
at the summit of the long range of hills which bisected the county in which he dwelt. I have
described, in mentioning his park, the sandy character of the soil on the opposite slope of
the rise; but here higher up, and little trodden by pulverizing feet, the sandstone rock itself
occasionally broke out in rugged maps, diversifying the softer characteristics of the scene.
Wide, and far away, on either hand, the eye could wander along the range, catching first upon
some bold mass of hill, or craggy piece of ground, assuming almost the character of a cliff,
seen in hard and sharp distinctness, with its plume of trees and coronet of yellow gorse, and
then, proceeding onward to wave after wave, the sight rested upon the various projecting points,
each softer and softer as they receded, like the memories of early days, till the last lines
of the wide sweep left the mind doubtful whether they were forms of earth or clouds, or merely
fancy.

Such was the scene on either hand, but straightforward it was very different, but still quite
English. Were you ever, reader, borne to the top of a very high wave in a small boat, and did
you ever, looking down the watery mountain, mark how the steep descent, into the depth below,
was checkered by smaller waves, and these waves again by ripples? Such was the character of
the view beneath the feet of the spectator. There was a gradual, easy descent from the highest
point of the whole county down to a river-nurtured valley, not unbroken, but with lesser and
lesser waves of earth, varying the aspect of the scene. These waves again were marked out,
first by scattered and somewhat stunted trees, then by large oaks and chestnuts, not undiversified
by the white and gleaming bark of the graceful birch. A massive group of birches here and there
was seen; a scattered cottage, too, with its pale bluish wreath of smoke curling up over the
tree-tops. Then, on the lower slope of all, came hedgerows of elms, with bright, green rolls
of verdant turf between; the spires of churches; the roofs and white walls of many sorts of
man's dwelling-places, and gleams of a bright river, with two or three arches of a bridge.
Beyond that again appeared a rich wide valley--I might almost have called it a plain, all in
gay confusion, with fields, and houses, and villages, and trees, and streams, and towns, mixed
altogether in exquisite disorder, and tinted with all the variety of colors and shades that
belong to autumn and to sunset.

Down the descent, the eye of Sir Philip Hastings could trace several roads and paths, every
step of which he knew, like daily habits. There was one, a bridle-way from a town about sixteen
miles distant, which, climbing the hills almost at its outset, swept along the whole range,
about midway between the summit and the valley. Another, by which he had come, and along which
he intended to proceed, traversed the crest of the hills ere it reached the cottage, and then
descended with a wavy line into the valley, crossing the bridle-path I have mentioned. A wider
path--indeed it might be called a road, though it was not a turnpike--came over the hills from
the left, and with all those easy graceful turns which Englishmen so much love in their highways,
and Frenchmen so greatly abhor, descended likewise into the valley, to the small market-town,
glimpses of which might be caught over the tops of the trees. As the baronet sat there on horseback,
and looked around, more than one living object met his eye. To say nothing of some sheep wandering
along the uninclosed part of the hill, now stopping to nibble the short grass, now trotting
forward for a sweeter bite,--not to notice the oxen in the pastures below, there was a large
cart slowly winding its way along an open part of the road, about half a mile distant, and
upon the bridle-path which I have mentioned, the figure of a single horseman was seen, riding
quietly and easily along, with a sauntering sort of air, which gave the beholder at once the
notion that he was what Sterne would have called a "picturesque traveller," and was enjoying
the prospect as he went.

On the road that came over the hill from the left, was another rider of very different demeanor,
going along at a rattling pace, and apparently somewhat careless of his horse's knees.

The glance which Sir Philip Hastings gave to either of them was but slight and hasty. His eyes
were fixed upon the scene before him, feeling, rather than understanding, its beauties, while
he commented in his mind, after his own peculiar fashion. I need not trace the procession of
thought through his brain. It ended, however, with the half uttered words,

"Strange, that such a land should have produced so many scoundrels, tyrants, and knaves!"

He then slowly urged his horse forward, down the side of the hill, soon reached some tall trees,
where the inclosures and hedgerows commenced, and was approaching the point at which the road
he was travelling, crossed the bridle-path, when he heard some loud, and as it seemed to him,
angry words, between two persons he could not see.

"I will soon teach you that;" cried a loud, coarse tongue, adding an exceedingly blasphemous
oath, which I will spare the reader.

"My good friend," replied another milder voice, "I neither desire to be taught any thing, just
now, nor would you be the teacher I should chose, if I did, though perchance, in case of need,
I might give you a lesson, which would be of some service to you."

Sir Philip rode on, and the next words he heard were spoken by the first voice, to the following
effect; "Curse me, if I would not try that, only my man might get off in the mean time; and
I have other business in hand than yours. Otherwise I would give you such a licking in two
minutes, you would be puzzled to find a white spot on your skin for the next month."

"Two minutes would not detain you long," replied the calmer voice, "and, as I have never had
such a beating, I should like to see, first, whether you could give it, and secondly, what
it would be like."

"Upon my soul, you are cool!" exclaimed the first speaker with another oath.

"Perfectly," replied the second; and, at the same moment, Sir Philip Hastings emerged from
among the trees, at the point where the two roads crossed, and where the two speakers were
face to face before his eyes.

The one, who was in truth the sauntering traveller whom he has seen wending along the bridle-path,
was a tall, good-looking young man, of three or four and twenty years of age. In the other,
the Baronet had no difficulty in recognizing at once, Tom Cutter, the notorious poacher and
bruiser, whom he had more than once had the satisfaction of committing to jail. To see him
mounted on a very fine powerful horse, was a matter of no slight surprise to Sir Philip; but,
naturally concluding that he had stolen it, and was making off with his prize for sale to the
neighboring town, he rode forward and put himself right in the way, determined to stop him.

"Ay, ay! Here is my man!" cried Tom Cutter, as soon as he saw him. "I will settle with him
first, and then for you, my friend."

"No, no, to an old proverb, first come must be first served," replied the traveller, pushing
his horse forward a few steps.

"Keep the peace, in the King's name!" exclaimed Sir Philip Hastings. "I, as a magistrate, charge
you, sir, to assist me in apprehending this man!--Thomas Cutter, get off that horse!"

The only reply was a coarse and violent expletive, and a blow with a thick heavy stick, aimed
right at Sir Philip's head. The magistrate put up his arm, which received the blow, and was
nearly fractured by it; but at the same moment, the younger traveller spurred forward his horse
upon the ruffian, and with one sweep of his arm struck him to the ground.

Tom Cutter was upon his feet again in a moment. He was accustomed to hard blows, and like the
immortal hero of Butler, could almost tell the quality of the stick he was beat withal. He
was not long in discovering, therefore, that the fist which struck him was of no ordinary weight,
and was directed with skill as well as with vigor; but he was accustomed to make it his boast,
that he had never taken a licking "from any man," which vanity caused him at once to risk such
another blow, in the hope of having his revenge.

Rushing upon the young stranger then, stick in hand, he prepared to knock him from his horse;
for the other appeared to have no defensive arms, but a slight hazel twig, pulled from a hedge.

"He will jump off the other side of his horse," thought Tom Cutter; "and then, if he do, I'll
contrive to knock the nag over upon him. I know that trick, well enough."

But the stranger disappointed him. Instead of opposing the horse between him and his assailant,
he sprung with one bound out of the saddle, on the side next to the ruffian himself, caught
the uplifted stick with one hand, and seized the collar of the bruiser's coat with the other.

Tom Cutter began to suspect he had made a mistake; but, knowing that at such close quarters
the stick would avail him little, and that strength of thews and sinews would avail him much,
he dropped the cudgel, and grappled with the stranger in return.

It was all the work of a moment. Sir Philip Hastings had no time to interfere. There was a
momentary struggle, developing the fine proportions and great strength and skill of the wrestlers;
and then, Tom Cutter lay on his back upon the ground. The next instant, the victor put his
foot upon his chest, and kept the ruffian forcibly down, notwithstanding all is exclamations
of "Curse me, that isn't fair! When you give a man a fall, let him get up again!"

"If he is a fair fighter, I do," replied the other; "but when he plays pirate, I don't--" Then
turning to Sir Philip Hastings, who had by this time dismounted, he said, "What is to be done
with this fellow, sir? It seems he came here for the express purpose of assaulting you, for
he began his impertinence, with asking if you had passed, giving a very accurate description
of your person, and swearing you should find every dog would have his day."

"His offence towards myself," replied the Baronet, "I will pass over, for it seems to me, he
has been punished enough in his own way; but I suspect he has stolen this horse. He is a man
of notoriously bad character, who can never have obtained such an animal by honest means."

"No, I didn't steal him, I vow and swear," cried the ruffian, in a piteous tone; for bullies
are almost always cravens; "he was lent to me by Johny Groves--some call him another name;
but that don't signify.--He lent him to me, to come up here, to stop your gab with the old
woman, Mother Danty; and mayhap to give you a good basting into the bargain. But I didn't steal
the horse no how; and there he is, running away over the hill-side, and I shall never catch
him; for this cursed fellow has well nigh broken my back."

"Served you quite right, my friend," replied the stranger, still keeping him tightly down with
his foot. "How came you to use a cudgel to a man who had none? Take my advice, another time,
and know your man before you meddle with him."

