

LAMENTATIONS, BOOK OF, one of the poetical books of the Old Testament, ascribed to Jeremiah
and historically connected with his prophecies, written apparently after the fall of Jerusalem
and in sight of its ruins, as lamentation over the general desolation in the land connected
therewith.

LAMMAS DAY, the first of August, literally "the loaf-mass" day or festival day at the beginning
of harvest, one of the cross quarter days, Whitsuntide, Martinmas, and Candlemas being the
other three.

LAMMERMOORS, a range of hills separating the counties of Haddington and Berwick, extending
from Gala Water to St. Abb's Head, the Lammer Law being 1733 ft.

LA METTRIE, a French physician and materialist, born at St. Malo; bred to medicine, served
as an army surgeon at Dettingen and Fontenoy; his materialistic views were given first in a
publication entitled "D'Histoire Naturelle de l'Âme," and at length in his "L'Homme Machine,"
both in profession of a materialism so gross and offensive, being absolutely atheistic, that
he was glad to escape for shelter to Berlin under the wing of Frederick the Great (1709-1754).

LAMOTTE, COUNTESS DE, born at Fontelle, in Aube, who came up to Paris a shifty adventuress
and played a chief part in the notorious affair of the DIAMOND NECKLACE (q. v.), which involved
so many high people in France in deep disgrace (1756-1791). See CARLYLE'S "MISCELLANIES."

LANARK (5), county town of Lanarkshire, on the Clyde, 31 m. SE. of Glasgow; has a cattle-market
and some weaving industry, and is for parliamentary purposes in the Falkirk group of burghs.

LANARKSHIRE (1,106), inland Scottish county occupying the Clyde valley, in size the twelfth,
but first in wealth and population. The middle and south are hilly, with such outstanding peaks
as Tinto, and are adapted for cattle and sheep grazing and for dairy-farming. The lower north-western
portion is very rich in coal and iron, the extensive mining and manufacture of which has given
rise to many busy towns such as Glasgow, Motherwell, Hamilton, Coatbridge, and Airdrie; fireclay,
shale, and lead are also found; the soil is various; comparatively little grain is grown; there
are large woods. The orchards of the river side have given place mostly to market gardens,
which the proximity of great towns renders profitable. The industries, besides iron and coal,
are very extensive and varied, and include great textile works.

LANCASHIRE (3,927), English county stretching from the Cumberland Mountains in the N. to the
Mersey in the S. along the shores of the Irish Sea; is the wealthiest and most populous county,
and the indentations of the coast-line adapt it to be the chief outlet westward for English
trade, more than a third of England's foreign commerce passing through its ports. The country
is mostly low, with spurs of the Yorkshire hills; it is rich in minerals, chiefly coal and
iron; its industrial enterprise is enormous; nearly half of the cotton manufacture of the world
is carried on in its towns, besides woollen and silk manufacture, the making of engineer's
tools, boots and shoes. The soil is a fertile loam, under corn and green crops and old pasture.
Lancaster is the county town, but the largest towns are Liverpool, Manchester, Preston, and
Blackburn. The northern portion, detached by Morecambe Bay, is known as Furness, belongs really
to the Lake District, and has Barrow-in-Furness, with its large shipbuilding concerns, for
its chief town. Lancashire has long been an influential political centre.

LANCASTER (31), picturesque town near the mouth of the Lune, 50 m. NW. of Manchester, is the
county town of Lancashire, and manufactures furniture, cotton, machinery, and railway plant;
it was disfranchised in 1867 for corrupt practices.

LANCASTER, JOSEPH, educationist, born in Southwark, and founder of the Monitorial System; had
a chequered career, died in poverty (1778-1838).

LANCELOT OF THE LAKE, one of the Knights of the Round Table, famous for his gallantry and his
amours with Queen Guinevere; was called of the Lake because educated at the court of the LADY
OF THE LAKE (q. v.); he turned hermit in the end, and died a holy man.

LAND LEAGUE, an organisation founded by DAVITT (q. v.) in Ireland in 1879 to deal with the
land question, and suppressed in 1881 as illegal.

LANDAMAN, name given to the chief magistrate in certain Swiss cantons, also to the President
of the Swiss Diet.

LANDER, RICHARD, African explorer, born in Truro, Cornwall; accompanied Clapperton as his servant;
along with his brother John discovered the lower course of the Niger; on the third expedition
was wounded in a conflict with the natives, and died at Fernando Po (1804-1834).

LANDES, sandy plains along the French coast between the Garonne and the Pyrenees, covered with
heath and broom.

LANDGRABBER, name given in Ireland to one in the possession or occupancy of land from which
another has been evicted.

LANDGRAVE, title given to certain counts of the old German empire who had the rank of princes.

LANDON, LETITIA ELIZABETH, known as L. E. L., authoress, born in Chelsea; a charming woman,
who wrote well both in verse and prose; was Mrs. Hemans's successor; having taken prussic acid
by mistake had a tragic end (1802-1838).

LANDOR, WALTER SAVAGE, eminent literary man, born in Warwick, a man of excitable temperament,
which involved him in endless quarrels leading to alienations, but did not affect his literary
work; figured first as a poet in "Gebir" and "Count Julian," to the admiration of Southey,
his friend, and De Quincey, and ere long as a writer of prose in his "Imaginary Conversations,"
embracing six volumes, on which recent critics have bestowed unbounded praise, Swinburne in
particular; he died in Florence separated from his family, and dependent on it there for six
years; Carlyle visited him at Bath in 1850, and found him "stirring company; a proud, irascible,
trenchant, yet generous, veracious, and very dignified old man; quite a ducal or royal man
in the temper of him" (1775-1864).

LAND'S END, a bold promontory of granite rock on the SW. coast of Cornwall.

LANDSEER, SIR EDWIN HENRY, greatest English animal-painter, born in London, the son of an engraver
and writer on art, trained by his father, sketched animals before he was six years old, and
exhibited in the Royal Academy before thirteen; in his early years he portrayed simply the
form and colour and movement of animal life, but after his twenty-first year he added usually
some sentiment or idea; elected A.R.A. in 1826, and R.A. in 1830; he was knighted in 1853;
five years later he won a gold medal in Paris; in 1859 he modelled the Trafalgar Square lions;
after 1861 he suffered from mental depression, and declined the Presidency of the Royal Academy
in 1866 (1802-1873).

LANDSTURM, the name given to the last reserve in the German army, which is never called out
except in time of war.

LANDTHING, the name of the Upper House in the Danish Parliament.

LANDWEHR, a military force in Germany and Austria held in reserve against a time of war, when
it is called out to do ordinary military duty. In Germany those capable of bearing arms have
to serve in it five years after completing their seven years' term of regular service.

LANE, EDWARD WILLIAM, eminent Arabic scholar, born at Hereford; set out for Egypt in 1825;
studied the language and manners, and returned in 1828; published in 1836 an "Account of the
Manners and Customs of the Modern Egyptians"; translated in 1840 "The Arabian Nights," and
spent seven years in Egypt preparing an Arabic Lexicon which he had all but finished when he
died; it was completed and edited by S. Lane-Poole (1801-1876).

LANFRANC, archbishop of Canterbury, born at Pavia; went to France, entered the monastery of
Bec, and became prior in 1046, and was afterwards, in 1062, elected prior of the abbey of St.
Stephen at Caen; and came over to England with William the Conqueror, who appointed him to
the archbishopric rendered vacant by the deposition of Stigand; he was William's trusted adviser,
but his influence declined under Rufus; d. 1089.

LANFREY, PIERRE, historian, born at Chambéry; wrote an elaborate History of Napoleon to, it
is reckoned, the irreparable damage of its hero (1828-1877).

LANG, ANDREW, a versatile writer, born in Selkirk; has distinguished himself in various departments
of literary work, as a poet, a folk-lorist, a writer of fancy tales, a biographer, and a critic;
has composed "Ballads and Lyrics of Old France," "Ballads in Blue China"; has translated Homer
into musical prose, and written the Lives of Sir Stafford Northcote and John Gibson Lockhart;
he began his literary career as a journalist, and his assiduity as a writer has never relaxed;
b. 1844.

LANGE, FRIEDRICH, German philosopher, born near Solingen, son of the following; became professor
at Marburg; wrote a "History of Materialism" of great value (1828-1875).

LANGE, JOHANN PETER, a German theologian, born near Elberfeld; became professor at Bonn; his
works are numerous, but is best known by his "Life of Christ" and his "Christian Dogmatic"
(1802-1884).

LANGHORNE, JOHN, an English divine and poet, horn at Kirkby Stephen; was a prebend of Wells
Cathedral; wrote a poem entitled "Genius and Virtue," and executed with a brother a translation
of Plutarch's Lives (1735-1779).

LANGLAND, or LANGLEY, WILLIAM, the presumed author of the "Vision of Piers Plowman," and who
lived in the 14th century.

LANGRES (10), a French town, strongly fortified, near the sources of the Marne, rich in antiquities,
and one of the oldest towns in France; has manufactures and a considerable trade.

LANGTON, STEPHEN, archbishop of Canterbury, born in England but educated in France; a man of
ability and scholarly attainments; in 1206 visited Rome, was made Cardinal by Innocent III.,
presented to the Archbishopric, and consecrated at Viterbo in 1207; King John refused to acknowledge
him, and the kingdom was put under an interdict, a quarrel which it took five years to settle;
established in the primacy, the prelate took up a constitutional position, and mediated between
the king and the barons to the advancement of political liberty; d. 1228.

LANGUEDOC, a province in the S. of France, annexed to the French crown in 1361, and now divided
into nine departments, borders on the Rhône.

LANKA, name given to Ceylon in the Hindu mythology.

LANNES, JEAN, DUC DE MONTEBELLO, marshal of France, born at Lectoure; was much esteemed by
Napoleon, whom he zealously supported; went with him to Egypt, was with him at Marengo, distinguished
himself at Austerlitz and in Spain, and fell mortally wounded at Essling (1769-1809).

LANSDOWNE, HENRY, THIRD MARQUIS OF, liberal politician, born in London; educated at Edinburgh
and Cambridge; sat in the Commons as member for Calne from 1801 and for Cambridge from 1806,
and succeeded to the peerage in 1809; on the accession of the Liberals to power he joined the
Cabinet of Canning, presided at the Foreign Office in Goderich's administration, became President
of the Council under Lord Grey in 1830, and, twice refusing the Premiership, was a member of
every Liberal Government till 1858, when he retired from public life; he was the trusted adviser
of his party, and friend of the Queen till his death (1780-1863).

LANSDOWNE, HENRY, FIFTH MARQUIS OF, Liberal statesman, grandson of the above, educated at Oxford;
succeeded to the peerage in 1866, and held office in Liberal Governments, Lord of the Treasury
1868-72, Under-Secretary for War 1872-74, and Under-Secretary for India 1880; he was Governor-General
of Canada 1883-88, and Viceroy of India 1888-94; in 1895 he joined Lord Salisbury's ministry
as a Liberal-Unionist, becoming Secretary for War; b. 1845.

LANTERNE, LA, a stout lamp-iron at the corner of a street in Paris, used by the mob for extemporised
executions during the Revolution by Lynch law.

LAOCÖON, a priest of Apollo, in Troy, who having offended the god by, for one thing, advising
the Trojans not to admit the wooden horse of the Greeks within the walls, was, with his two
sons, while engaged in sacrificing to Poseidon, strangled to death in the coils of two enormous
serpents sent to kill him, a subject which is the theme of one of the grandest relics of ancient
sculpture now in existence and preserved in the Vatican.

LAODAMIA, a Grecian lady, who accompanied her husband to the Trojan War, and who, on his death
on the field, begged the gods to restore him to her for three hours, a prayer which was granted,
but with the result that at the end of the time she died along with him and accompanied him
on his return to Hades.

LAODICEA. Eight ancient cities bore this name; the chief, situated on the Lycus, in Phrygia,
lay on the way between Ionia and the Euphrates; was a city of great commerce and wealth, the
seat of schools of art, science, medicine, and philosophy, and of an early Christian bishopric;
though the Church was stigmatised in the Revelation, two councils assembled here in A.D. 363
and 476, the former of which influenced the determination of the canon of both Testaments;
the city, destroyed by the Mohammedan invasions, is now in ruins.

LAOMEDON, the founder of Troy, who persuaded Apollo and Neptune to assist him in building the
walls, but refused the recompense when the work was finished, in consequence of which the latter
sent a monster to ravage the country, which could be propitiated only by the annual sacrifice
to it of a young maid, till one year the lot fell on Hermione, the king's daughter, when Hercules,
persuaded by the king, slew the monster and delivered the maiden.

LAOTZE (i. e. the old Philosopher), a Chinese sage, born in the province of Ho-nan about 565
B.C., a contemporary of Confucius, who wrote the celebrated "Tao-te-King," canon, that is,
of the Tao, or divine reason, and of virtue, one--and deservedly so on account of its high
ethics--of the sacred books of China; he was the founder of one of the three principal religions
of China, Confucianism and Buddhism being the other two, although his followers, the Tao-sze
as they are called, are now degenerated into a set of jugglers. (1741-1788).

LAPITHÆ, a race inhabiting the mountains of Thessaly; subject to Perithous, who, on the occasion
of his marriage with Hippodamia, invited his kinsfolk the Centaurs to the feast, but these,
under intoxication from the wine, attempting to carry off the bride and other women, were set
on by the Lapithæ and, after a bloody struggle, overpowered.

LAPLACE, a celebrated French mathematician, born at Beaumont-en-Auge, Normandy; the son of
a farmer; after teaching in his native place went to Paris (1767), where he became professor
in the Royal Military School; becoming member of the Académie des Sciences in 1785, he attained
a position among mathematicians and astronomers almost equal to Newton's; his "Three Laws"
demonstrated the stability of the solar system; he published many treatises on lunar and planetary
problems, electricity, magnetism, and a Nebula-hypothesis; his "Mécanique Céleste" is unrivalled
in that class of work; surviving the Revolution he became implicated in politics without success
or credit; he received his marquisate from Louis XVIII. in 1817, when he became President of
the French Academy; "LAGRANGE (q. v.) has proved that on Newton's theory of gravitation the
planetary system would endure for ever; Laplace, still more cunningly, even guessed that it
could not have been made on any other scheme" (1749-1827).

LAPLAND (28), a stretch of country in the N. of Europe, between the Atlantic and the White
Sea; is divided between Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Russia. Its climate is very severe; mountainous
in the W., it becomes more level in the E., where are many marshes, lakes, and rivers; the
summer is never dark, and there are six to eight weeks of winter never light. The Lapps, of
whom 18,000 are in Norwegian Lapland, are closely allied to the Finns, small of stature, thick
lipped, and with small piercing eyes; proverbially uncleanly, not very intelligent, are good-natured,
but untruthful and parsimonious; nominally Christian, but very superstitious; they are kindly
treated by both Norway and Sweden. The mountain Lapps are nomads, whose wealth consists of
herds of reindeer, which supply nearly all their wants. The sea Lapps live by fishing. The
forest and river Lapps, originally nomads, have adopted a settled life, domesticated their
reindeer, and taken to hunting and fishing.

LA PLATA (65), a new city, founded in 1884 as capital of the prov. of Buenos Ayres, 30 m. SE.
of Buenos Ayres city; rapidly built, it has continued to grow, and has now some handsome buildings,
a college, and cotton and woollen manufactures; a canal connects it with the La Plata River.

LA PLATA RIVER, a broad estuary in South America, from 28 to 140 m. broad and 200 m. long,
with Uruguay on the N. and the Argentine Republic on the S., through which the Uruguay and
Paraná rivers pour into the Atlantic; it is much exposed to storms; its best harbour is at
Monte Video.

LAPSI, name given to apostates in the early Christian Church.

LAPUTA, a flying island inhabited by speculative philosophers, visited by Gulliver in his "Travels,"
who, when their minds began to be too much absorbed in their studies, were wakened up by a
set of attendants called "Flappers" armed with dried bladders full of small pebbles or "dried
peas" attached to the end of a stick, with which they struck them gently about the mouth and ears.

LARDNER, DIONYSIUS, a popular scientist, born in Dublin; wrote a number of scientific works;
edited a Cyclopedia, being a series of volumes on scientific subjects; was professor of Natural
Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London, but from a misdemeanour had to vacate
his chair and emigrate to America (1793-1859).

LARDNER, NATHANIEL, an English divine, ecclesiastically a Presbyterian but theologically a
Unitarian, author of "Credibility of the Gospel History" and "Jewish and Heathen Testimonies"
in favour of Christianity (1684-1768).

LARES, household deities of the Romans; originally deified ancestors of the families whose
family life they protected, and images of whom were kept in some shrine in the house near the
hearth. Besides these domestic lares, there were public lares, who were protectors of the whole
community. Both classes were objects of worship.

LARISSA (13), the capital of Thessaly, in Greece; stands in a sandy plain; is the seat of a
Greek archbishop; has mosques as well as churches.

LA ROCHEFOUCAULD, FRANÇOIS, DUC DE, a great maxim writer, member of a French family of Angoumois,
born at Paris; played a conspicuous part in the war of the Fronde; was present at several engagements,
and was wounded twice over, and retired at length in shattered health; he passed the rest of
his days at court, where he enjoyed the society of the most distinguished ladies of the time;
his "Maxims" appeared in 1665, and were immediately appreciated; they bear one and all on ethical
subjects, and are the fruit of a life of large and varied commerce with the race (1613-1680).

LA ROCHEJAQUELEIN, HENRI, COMTE DE, a celebrated Vendéan royalist; the peasants of La Vendée
having in 1792 risen in the royal cause, he placed himself at the head of them, and after gaining
six victories was killed fighting in single combat while defending Nouaillé (1772-1794).

LAROUSSE, PIERRE, a celebrated French grammarian and lexicographer; best known by his "Grand
Dictionnaire Universel du xix^{me} Siècle" (1817-1875).

LARRY, DOMINIQUE JEAN, BARON, a celebrated military surgeon; distinguished for the organisation
he instituted of the "flying ambulance" for the care of the wounded in battle; accompanied
Napoleon to Egypt; served in the Russian campaign; was wounded and taken prisoner at Waterloo;
wrote treatises on army surgery (1766-1842).

LA SALLE, ROBERT CAVELIER SIEUR DE, a French explorer, born at Rouen; set out from Canada and
explored the North American continent along the course of the Mississippi as far as the Gulf
of Mexico, planting the French flag at what he thought was, but was not, the mouth of the river;
was assassinated by one of his retinue in the end (1640-1687).

LASCARS, East Indians serving as seamen on board of British vessels, who have proved very tractable,
and make excellent sailors; they are mostly Mohammedans.

LASCARSIS, CONSTANTINO, an eminent Greek scholar, born in Phrygia; on the fall of Constantinople
in 1453 came with his brother John to Italy, published a Greek grammar, opened a school at
Rome and Naples for Greek and Rhetoric, and did much to propagate in Italy a taste for Hellenic
literature (1445-1535).

LAS CASAS, BARTHOLOMÉ DE, a celebrated Spanish priest, surnamed the Apostle of the Indians,
born at Seville; visited the West Indies early under Columbus; took a deep interest in the
natives; was grieved to see the usage they were subjected to there, as well as elsewhere, under
the rule of Spain, and spent his life in persuading his countrymen to adopt a more lenient
and humane treatment; crossed the ocean twelve times on their behalf; was made Bishop of Chiapa,
in Mexico, in 1554; died in Madrid (1474-1566).

LAS CASES, French historiographer; became attached to Napoleon and accompanied him to St. Helena,
and after his death published his Memorial of St. Helena, with an account of Napoleon's life
and the treatment he was subjected to there (1766-1842).

LASCO, JOHANNES, a Protestant Reformer, born in Poland; studied at Rome and Bologna, and entered
holy orders; became acquainted with Erasmus at Basel, and joined the Reformation movement;
settled at Emden; accepted an invitation from Cranmer to London, and ministered to a Protestant
congregation there, but left it on the accession of Mary, and in 1556 returned to Poland and
contributed largely to the movement already begun there (1490-1560).

LAS PALMAS (17), the capital of the Canary Islands, on the NE. of the Grand Canary, the second
largest of the group; is the seat of the Government, and a health resort.

LASSALLE, FERDINAND, founder of Socialism in Germany, born at Breslau, of Jewish parents; attended
the universities of Breslau and Berlin; became a disciple of Hegel; took part in the Revolution
of 1848, and was sent to prison for six months; in 1861 his "System of Acquired Rights" started
an agitation of labour against capital, and he was again thrown into prison; on his release
founded an association to secure universal suffrage and other reforms; returning to Switzerland
he conceived a passionate affection for a lady betrothed to a noble whom she was compelled
to marry, and whom he challenged, but by whom he was mortally wounded in a duel (1825-1864).

LASSELL, WILLIAM, astronomer, born at Bolton, discovered the satellite of Neptune, and the
eighth satellite of Saturn, in an observatory of his own, with instruments of his own construction
(1799-1880).

LASSEN, CHRISTIAN, eminent Orientalist, born at Bergen; studied Pâli with Burnouf in Paris;
became professor of Indian Languages and Literature in Bonn; contributed largely to our knowledge
of cuneiform inscriptions, and wrote, among other works, an epoch-making work entitled "Indische
Alterthumskunde."

LASSO, a well-plaited strip of hide, with a noose, to catch wild horses or cattle with.

LATAKIA (10), a seaport on the coast of Syria; exports a tobacco of a fine quality, to which
it gives name.

LATEEN SAIL, a triangular sail common on the Mediterranean.

LATERAN, the palace, originally a basilica, built by Constantine in Rome about 333, the residence
of the Pope till 1308, and from which no fewer than five Ecumenical Councils receive their
names as held in it, namely, those of 1123, 1139, 1179, 1215, and 1518; the church, called
the Church of St. John Lateran, is the cathedral church of Rome.

LATHAM, ROBERT GORDON, ethnologist and philologist, born at Billingborough Vicarage, Lincolnshire,
graduated at Cambridge 1832. and became Fellow of King's College; qualifying in medicine he
held appointments in the London hospitals, but meanwhile was attracted to philology and ethnology,
appointed professor of English Language and Literature in University College, London, 1839,
and director of the ethnological department of the Crystal Palace, 1852; in 1862 he affirmed,
against the most weighty authorities, that the Aryan stock is originally European, not Asian,
a view which has since found favour; he published his "English Language" in 1841, and "The
Natural History of the Varieties of Mankind" in 1850, and was pensioned in 1863 (1812-1888).

LATIMER, HUGH, Bishop of Worcester, born near Leicester; studied at Cambridge, and entered
the Church, but soon adopted the Reformed doctrines, gained the favour of Henry VIII. by approving
of his divorce, and was appointed bishop; by his labours in Worcester as a preacher of the
Reformed faith he lost the royal favour, and was twice committed to the Tower for his obstinacy,
he the while resigning his appointment; under Edward VI. his zeal as a preacher had full scope,
but under Mary his mouth was gagged, and he was burnt at the stake along with Ridley, opposite
Balliol College, Oxford (1490-1545).

LATIN UNION, a convention in 1865, between France, Italy, Belgium, Switzerland, and Greece,
to establish an international monetary standard.

LATITUDINARIANS, the name given to a body of theologians belonging to the Church of England
who, at the end of the 17th century, sought, in the interest of religion, to affiliate the
dogmas of the Church, with the principles of philosophy as grounded on reason; they were mostly
of the school of Plato, and among their leaders were Cudworth and Henry More.

LATONA, the Latin name for Greek LETO (q. v.).

LATOUR D'AUVERGNE, CORRET DE, a French grenadier, born in Brittany; celebrated for his intrepidity
and his self-sacrificing patriotism; distinguished himself in the wars of the Revolution; would
accept no promotion, and declined even the title of "First Grenadier of the Republic" which
Bonaparte wished to confer on him, but by which he is known to posterity (1743-1800).

LATRIELLE, PIERRE ANDRÉ, French naturalist, born at Brives, in Corrèze; one of the founders
of the science of Entomology; succeeded Lamarck as professor in Natural History in the Jardin
des Plantes; wrote several works on entomology (1762-1833).

LATRIA, the name given in Catholic theology to the worship of God, as distinguished from DULIA
(q. v.), their name for the worship of saints.

LATTER-DAY PAMPHLETS, a series of pamphlets published by Carlyle in 1850, in vehement denunciation
of the political, social, and religious imbecilities and injustices of the period.

LATTER-DAY SAINTS. See MORMONS.

LAUD, WILLIAM, archbishop of Canterbury, born at Reading, son of a clothier; studied at and
became a Fellow of St. John's College, Oxford, was ordained in 1601; early gave evidence of
his High-Church proclivities and his hostility to the Puritans, whom for their disdain of forms
he regarded as the subverters of the Church; he rose by a succession of preferments, archdeaconship
of Huntingdon one of them, to the Primacy, but declined the offer of a cardinal's hat at the
hands of the Pope, and became along with Strafford a chief adviser of the unfortunate Charles
I.; his advice did not help the king out of his troubles, and his obstinate, narrow-minded
pedantry brought his own head to the block; he was beheaded for treason on Tower Hill, Jan.
10, 1645; he "could see no religion" in Scotland once on a visit there, "because he saw no
ritual, and his soul was grieved" (1573-1645).

LAUDERDALE, JOHN MAITLAND, DUKE OF, Scottish Secretary under Charles II., professed Covenanting
sympathies in his youth, and attended the Westminster Assembly of Divines as a Commissioner
for Scotland 1643; succeeding to the earldom in 1645 he joined the Royalists in the Civil War,
was made prisoner at Worcester 1651, and confined for nine years; receiving his Scottish office
at the Restoration he devoted himself to establishing by every means the absolute power of
the king in Church and State; his measures were responsible for the rising of 1666 and in part
for that of 1677; but he made the Episcopal Church quite subservient; appointed to the Privy
Council, he sat in the "Cabal" ministry, was made duke in 1672, and in spite of intrigues and
an attempt to censure him in the Commons, remained in power till 1680; he was shrewd, clever,
witty, sensual, and unscrupulous; then and still hated in Scotland (1616-1682).

LAUENBURG (49), a duchy of N. Germany, between Holstein and Mecklenburg, was annexed to Prussia
in 1876.

LAUGHING PHILOSOPHER, a name given to Democrates of Abdera for a certain flippancy he showed.

LAUNCESTON (17), on the Tamar, the second city in Tasmania, is the chief port and market in
the N., a fine city, carrying on a good trade with Australian ports, and serving as a summer
resort to Melbourne.

LAURA, a young Avignonese married lady, for whom Petrarch conceived a Platonic affection, and
who exercised a lifelong influence over him.

LAUREATE, POET, originally an officer of the royal household whose business it was to celebrate
in an ode any joyous occasion connected with royalty, originally the sovereign's birthday;
it is now a mere honour bestowed by royalty on an eminent poet.

LAURIER, SIR WILFRED, Premier of Canada since 1896, and the first French-Canadian to attain
that honour, born in St. Lin; bred for the bar, soon rose to the top of his profession; elected
in 1871 as a Liberal to the Quebec Provincial Assembly, where he came at once to the front,
and elected in 1874 to the Federal Assembly, he became distinguished as "the silver-tongued
Laurier," and as the Liberal leader; his personality is as winning as his eloquence, and he
stood first among all the Colonial representatives at Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee in 1897;
b. 1841.

LAUSANNE (33), a picturesque town on the slopes of the Jura, 1 m. from the N. shore of Lake
Geneva, is the capital of the Swiss canton of Vaud; noted for its educational institutions
and museums, and for its magnificent Protestant cathedral; it has little industry, but considerable
trade, and is a favourite tourist resort; here took place the disputation between Calvin, Farel,
and Viret, and here Gibbon wrote the "Decline and Fall."

LAVA, a general term for all rocks originating in molten streams from volcanoes, includes traps,
basalts, pumice, and others; the surface of a lava stream cools and hardens quickly, presenting
a cellulose structure, while below the heat is retained much longer and the rock when cooled
is compact and columnar or crystalline; the largest recorded lava flow was from Skaptar Jökull,
Iceland, in 1783.

LAVALETTE, COUNT DE, French general, born at Paris; condemned to death after the Restoration
as an accomplice of Napoleon, he was saved from death by the devotion of his wife, who was
found in the prison instead of him on the morning appointed for his execution (1769-1830).

LA VALLIÈRE, DUCHESSE DE, a fascinating woman, born at Tours, who became the mistress of Louis
XIV.; supplanted by another, she became a Carmelite nun in 1674 in the Carmelite nunnery in
Paris, and continued doing penance there as would seem till her death (1644-1710).

LAVATER, JOHANN KASPAR, German clergyman, a mystic thinker and writer on physiognomy, born
at Zurich; wrote "Outlooks to Eternity," and a work on physiognomy, or the art of judging of
character from the features of the face (1741-1804).

LAVOISIER, ANTOINE LAURENT, one of the founders of modern chemistry, born in Paris; to prosecute
his researches accepted the post of farmer-general in 1769, introduced in 1776 improvements
in manufacturing gunpowder, discovered the composition of the air and the nature of oxygen,
applied the principles of chemistry to agriculture, and indicated the presence and action of
these principles in various other domains of scientific inquiry; called to account for his
actions as farmer-general, one in particular "putting water in the tobacco," and condemned
to the guillotine; he in vain begged for a fortnight's respite to finish some experiments,
"the axe must do its work" (1742-1794).

LAW, JOHN, financier and speculator, son of a goldsmith and banker, born at Edinburgh; was
early noted for his calculating power; visiting London in 1691 he got into debt, sold his estate,
killed a man in a duel, and escaped to Amsterdam, where he studied finance; came to Scotland
with financial proposals for the Government in 1700, but they were refused, and he spent some
years on the Continent as a gambling adventurer; in 1716 he and his brother William started
a private bank in Paris, the success of which induced the Regent Orleans in 1718 to institute
the "Royal Bank of France," with Law as director; next year he floated the "Mississippi Scheme"
for the settlement of Louisiana, but after a show of success the scheme proved a bubble; he
had to fly to Brussels, his property being confiscated; he died at Venice, poor, but scheming
to the end (1671-1729).

LAW, WILLIAM, author of "A Serious Call to a Devout and Holy Life," born at Kingscliffe, Northamptonshire,
son of a grocer; entered Cambridge in 1705; became a Fellow, and took orders in 1711; became
associated with the family of the elder Gibbon, father of the historian, in 1727, and spent
ten years with them as tutor, friend, and spiritual director; in 1740 he retired to Kingscliffe,
where he spent the remainder of his life in seclusion, shared by Miss Hester Gibbon, the historian's
aunt, and Mrs. Hutcheson, a widow of means, occupying themselves much with charitable schemes;
Law was an able theologian and dialectician, and an exponent of German mysticism; his writings
contributed greatly to the evangelical revival (1686-1761).

LAWRENCE, JOHN, LORD, the "Saviour of India," born of Irish parentage at Richmond, Yorkshire;
entered the Bengal Civil Service in 1829, and on the annexation of the Punjab was appointed
Commissioner and afterwards Lieutenant-Governor; by his justice and the reforms he carried
through he so won the esteem of the Sikhs that at the Mutiny he was able to disarm the Punjab
mutineers, raise 50,000 men, and capture Delhi; returning to England he received a pension
of £1000 a year, was made successively baronet and Privy Councillor, and sent out again as
Governor-General of India in 1863; his rule was characterised by wise policy and sound finance;
he disapproved of English interference in Afghan affairs; he was raised to the peerage in 1869
(1811-1879).

LAWRENCE, ST., a deacon of the Church at Rome, who suffered martyrdom in the time of Valerian,
258, by being broiled on a gridiron, which he is represented in Christian art as holding in
his hand.

LAY BROTHER, a member of a monastery under the three monastic vows, but not in holy orders.

LAYAMON, early English poet who flourished in the 12th century, and was by his own account
priest near Bewdley, on the Severn; was author of a long poem or chronicle of 32,250 lines
called "Brut d'Angleterre," and which is of interest as showing how Anglo-Saxon passed into
the English of Chaucer.

LAYARD, SIR AUSTEN HENRY, English traveller and diplomatist, born at Paris; spent his boyhood
in Italy, and studied law in London; between 1845 and 1847 he conducted excavations at the
ruins of Nineveh, securing for the British Museum its famous specimens of Assyrian art, and
on his return published works on "Nineveh and its Remains" and "Monuments of Nineveh"; he received
the freedom of London, Oxford gave him D.C.L., and Aberdeen University chose him for Lord Rector;
entering Parliament in 1852, he sat for Aylesbury and for Southwark, and was Under-secretary
for Foreign Affairs 1861-06; in 1809 he was sent as ambassador to Madrid, and from 1877 till
1880 represented England at Constantinople, where his philo-Turkish sympathies provoked much
comment; he was a noted linguist (1817-1894).

LAZZARONI, an indolent class of waifs under a chief who used to lounge about Naples, and proved
formidable in periods of revolution; they subsisted partly by service as messengers, porters,
&c., and partly as beggars.

LEAGUE AND COVENANT, SOLEMN. See COVENANT.

LEAGUE, THE, specially a coalition organised in 1576 by the Duke of Guise to suppress the Reformed
religion in France by denying civil and religious liberty to the Huguenots, and specially to
prevent the accession of Henry IV. as a Protestant to the throne.

LEAMINGTON (27), a fashionable Warwickshire watering-place of modern date on the Learn, 15
m. SE. of Birmingham. It has chalybeate, saline, and sulphurous springs, to which visitors
have gathered since the end of 18th century; brewing and kitchen-range making are carried on;
Leamington and Warwick return one member of Parliament.

LEANDER. See HERO.

LEANING TOWER, specially a campanile of white marble at Pisa, in Italy, 178 ft. in height,
and which leans 14 ft. off the perpendicular.

LEAR, a legendary British king, the hero of one of Shakespeare's tragedies, the victim of the
unnatural conduct of two of his daughters.

LEAR, EDWARD, English painter, and author of "Book of Nonsense," composed for the grandchildren
of the Earl of Derby in 1848, and after of "More Nonsense Rhymes," which were widely popular
with young people; painted landscapes in Greece and Asia Minor (1812-1888).

LEATHER STOCKING, NATTY, a character in Cooper's novel the "Pioneers," "a melodious synopsis
of man and nature in the West."

LEATHES, STANLEY, prebendary of St Paul's, born in Bucks; has held several clerical appointments;
is professor of Hebrew in King's College, London, and is author of a number of works bearing
on Christianity; b. 1830.

LEBANON (i. e. "the White Mountain"), a range on the northern border of Palestine, which rises
to a height of 10,000 ft., and is divided into two by a valley, the ancient Coele-Syria, which
the Leontes and Orontes water, the eastern range being called Anti-Lebanon.

LE BRUN, CHARLES, a celebrated French painter, born in Paris; studied in Rome, settled in Paris,
and patronised by Colbert; he exercised for about 40 years a great influence on the art of
the period; he decorated Versailles and the Louvre, but with the death of his patron he sunk
into obscurity and pined and died (1619-1690).

LECHLER, GOTTHARD VICTOR, theologian, born in Würtemberg; was professor at Leipzig; wrote "History
of Deism," "Life of Wiclif," and "Apostolic and Post-Apostolic Times" (1811-1888).

LECKY, WILLIAM EDWARD HARTPOLE, historian and suggestive writer, born near Dublin; represents
Dublin University in Parliament; is the author of "Leaders of Public Opinion," 1861; "The Rise
and Influence of the Spirit of Rationalism in Europe," 1865; the "History of European Morals
from Augustus to Charlemagne," 1869; and the "History of the Eighteenth Century," 1878-90; b. 1838.

LECLAIRE, EDME-JEAN, French economist, and experimentalist in the matter of the union of capital
and labour; adopted the system of profit-sharing in 1842, with important results (1801-1872).

LE CLERC, JOHN, otherwise Johannes Clericus, liberal Swiss theologian and controversialist,
born at Geneva; studied philosophy and theology there, and at Paris and London; became professor
in the Remonstrant Seminary in Amsterdam in 1684, but lost his speech in 1728; his voluminous
writings include commentaries on the whole Bible, which contained opinions on the authorship
and composition of the Pentateuch, and the inspiration of the wisdom books, then startling
but since much in favour (1657-1736).

LECONTE DE LISLE, a French poet, a Creole, born in the Isle of Bourbon, author of "Poésies
Barbares" and "Poésies Antiques," and translator of Homer, Sophocles, Theocrates, and other
classics; his translations are wonderfully faithful to the originals (1820-1894).

LECTERN, a stand with a desk for a book from which the service is read in a church.

LEDA, in the Greek mythology the wife of the Spartan king Tyndareus, who was visited by Zeus
in the form of a swan and became the mother of Castor and Pollux; was frequently the subject
of ancient art.

LEDRU-ROLLIN, ALEXANDRA AUGUSTE, a French democrat, born near Paris; called to the bar in 1830;
became a leader of the democratic movement in the reign of Louis Philippe, and gained the title
of the "Tribune of the Revolution"; in 1848 he became a member of the Provisional Government;
was Minister of the Interior; secured for France the privilege of universal suffrage; his opposition
to Louis Napoleon obliged him to seek refuge in England, where he took part in a general democratic
movement, and an amnesty being granted, he returned to France in 1870; was elected to the Assembly,
but his power was gone; died suddenly (1807-1874).

LEE, ROBERT EDWARD, Confederate general in the American Civil War, born at Stratford, Virginia,
son of a soldier of old and distinguished family, and educated at West Point; became captain
of Engineers in 1838; he distinguished himself in the Mexican War of 1846; was from 1852 till
1855 head of the U.S. Military Academy; was in active service again in Texas 1855-59 as an
officer of Cavalry; on the secession of the Southern States, though disapproving of the war,
deeming Virginia to have a claim before the Union to his loyalty, resigned his commission,
and was appointed general, third in rank, by the Confederate Congress of Virginia, 1861; after
various services he succeeded General Johnston in command of the army at Richmond; won the
seven days' battle against M'Clellan; invaded Maryland and Pennsylvania, but was forced to
surrender with 28,000 men to Grant at Appomatox, in Virginia, April 9, 1865; forfeiting his
estates he became President of the Washington University (since called Washington and Lee),
Lexington, Virginia, which post he held till his death; he was a man of devout religious faith,
a high sense of duty, great courage and ability as a soldier (1807-1870).

LEE, ROBERT, a Scottish theologian, born at Tweedmouth; was minister of Old Greyfriars, Edinburgh,
and professor of Biblical Criticism in the University; reformed the Presbyterian worship to
some extent on the Anglican model, and suffered no small persecution at the hands of the conservative
party in the Church for these innovations; his proclivities otherwise were rationalistic (1804-1868).

LEE, SAMUEL, English Orientalist, born in Shropshire; professor in Cambridge first of Arabic
and then of Hebrew; was the author of a Hebrew grammar and lexicon, and a translation of the
Book of Job (1783-1852).

LEECH, JOHN, English artist, born in London; was educated at the Charterhouse, and a fellow
pupil there of Thackeray's; displayed early a turn for caricature; produced a set of illustrations
for the "Ingoldsby Legends"; joined the staff of Punch in 1844, and remained a member of it
till his death; here he distinguished himself by his cartoons and his humorous illustrations
of scenes and characters of English life and society, and showed himself an artist more than
a caricaturist; his work was not limited to Punch; he contributed illustrations also to Once
a Week, the Illustrated London News, and other publications of the time (1817-1864).

LEEDS (368), fifth city in England, largest in Yorkshire, on the Aire, 25 m. SW. of York, in
the West Riding; has been noted for its textile industry since the 16th century, now its woollen
manufactures of all kinds are the largest in England, and besides other industries, there are
very large manufactures of ready-made clothing, leather, boots and shoes, and iron. There are
many fine buildings: St. Peter's Church is the largest; St. John's, consecrated in 1634, still
retains the fittings of a "Laudean" church. There is a magnificent infirmary, a grammar-school,
and art-gallery. The Yorkshire College is affiliated with Victoria University. Dr. Priestley
was a native. A Parliamentary borough only since 1832, it now returns five members.

LEEDS, THOMAS OSBORNE, DUKE OF, English statesman, son of a Yorkshire baronet, after the Restoration
entered Parliament as member for York and supporter of King and Church; his advance was rapid
till he was Lord High Treasurer and Earl of Danby in 1674; constantly intriguing, he was impeached
by the Commons in 1678, and kept for five years in the Tower without trial; returning to public
life he opposed James II.'s policy regarding the Church, and joined in the movement which set
William of Orange on the English throne; appointed President of the Council, he was again guilty
of corrupt practices; he became Duke of Leeds in 1694, but in 1695 was impeached a second time,
and though he again escaped condemnation he never regained power (1631-1712).

LEEUWENHOEK, ANTON VAN, an early microscopist, born at Delft; the instrument he used was of
his own construction, but it was the means of his arriving at important discoveries, one of
the most so that of capillary circulation; stoutly opposed the theory of spontaneous generation
(1632-1673).

LEFORT, FRANÇOIS JACOB, Russian officer, born in Geneva, son of a merchant; after serving in
France and Holland, in 1675 entered the service and gained the favour of Peter the Great, organised
the army on the French model, laid the foundation of a navy, and died commander-in-chief both
of the land forces and the navy (1656-1699).

LEFT, THE, the opposition in a Continental Legislative Assembly, as sitting on the left of
the chair; also the liberal section of a philosophical school.

LEGALISM, adherence to the strict letter of the law often in disregard of the spirit and even
in defiance of it.

LE GALLIENNE, RICHARD, poet, journalist, and critic, born in Liverpool, of a Guernsey family;
has been connected with and contributed to several London journals; is author of "My Lady's
Sonnets," "George Meredith: some Characteristics," "The Religion of a Literary Man," &c.; is
successful as a lecturer as well as a littérateur; b. 1866.

LEGATE, the title of the Pope's representative or ambassador; in medieval times this office
was attached to certain bishoprics, and the bishops were styled legati nati; besides these
there were legati a latere, generally cardinals, and legati missi, or nuncios specially appointed;
legates used to claim full papal jurisdiction within their provinces, which caused many disputes;
now they are ambassadors for spiritual purposes at Roman Catholic Courts--Vienna, Münich, Madrid,
Lisbon, and Paris--and do not interfere with the authority of the bishops.

LEGENDRE, ADRIEN MARIE, brilliant French mathematician, contemporary of Lagrange and Laplace,
born at Toulouse; obtained the professorship of Mathematics in the Military School at Paris,
and was elected to the Academy of Sciences in 1783; he was one of the commissioners to determine
the length of the metre, and held many posts under the Republic and the Empire; among many
works his best known is the "Elements of Geometry" (1794), translated into English by Carlyle
(1752-1833).

LEGGE, JAMES, a Chinese scholar, born in Huntly, Aberdeenshire; studied at King's College,
Aberdeen; was sent out as missionary to the Chinese by the London Missionary Society in 1839,
laboured for 30 years at Hong-Kong, and became professor of the Chinese Language and Literature
at Oxford in 1876; edited with a translation and notes the Chinese classics, the "four Shu,"
and the "five King," and gave lectures on the religions of China as compared with Christianity;
b. 1815.

LEGHORN (106), a flourishing Italian seaport, on the W. coast, 60 m. from Florence; is a fine
city, with broad streets and many canals; its exports include wine, silk, oil, marble, and
straw hats; it imports spirits, sugar, and machinery; it does a large and increasing coasting
trade, and manufactures coral ornaments; its prosperity dates from the 15th century; it was
a free port till 1868.

LEGION, among the ancient Romans a body of soldiers consisting of three lines, the hastati,
the principes, and the triarii, ranged in order of battle one behind the other, each divided
into ten maniples, and the whole numbering from 4000 to 6000 men; to each legion was attached
six military tribunes, who commanded in rotation, each for two months; under Marius the three
lines were amalgamated, and the whole divided into ten cohorts of three maniples each; under
the original arrangement the hastati were young or untrained men, the principes men in their
full manhood, and the triarii veterans.

LEGION OF HONOUR, an order of merit instituted on republican principles on May 10, 1802, by
Bonaparte when First Consul in recompense of civil and military services to the country; it
originally consisted of four classes, but now comprehends five: grand crosses, grand officers,
commanders, officers, and chevaliers, each, of military or naval men, with pensions on a descending
scale and all for life; their badge, a white star of five rays, bearing on the obverse an image
of the republic and on the reverse two tricolor flags.

LEGITIMISTS, a name given to supporters of the Bourbon dynasty in France as opposed to the
Orleanists, who supported the claims of Louis Philippe.

LEIBNITZ, German philosopher, mathematician, and man of affairs, born in Leipzig; studied law
and took the degree of Doctor of Laws at Altorf; spent a good part of his life at courts, visited
Paris and London and formed a friendship with the savans in both cities, and finally settled
in Hanover, where he moved much in the circle of the Electress Sophia and her daughter Sophia
Charlotte, the Prussian Queen, whom he entertained with his philosophy of the "infinitely little,"
as it has been called; he discovered with Newton the basis of the differential calculus, and
concocted the system of monods (his "Monodology"), between which and the soul, he taught, there
existed a "pre-established harmony," issuing in the cosmos; he was an optimist, and had for
his motto the oft-quoted phrase, "Everything is for the best in the best of possible worlds";
his principal works in philosophy are his "Théodicée," written at the instance of Sophia Charlotte
and in refutation of Bayle, and his "Monodologie," written on the suggestion of Prince Eugene
(1646-1716).

LEICESTER (209), county town of Leicestershire, on the Soar, 40 m. E. of Birmingham; is an
ancient town, with several historic buildings; has grown rapidly of late owing to its hosiery,
boot and shoe, and iron-founding industries; it sends two members to Parliament.

LEICESTER, ROBERT DUDLEY, EARL OF, Queen Elizabeth's favourite, fifth son of the Duke of Northumberland;
won the queen's favour by his handsome appearance and courtly address; received many offices
and honours, and on the death, under suspicious circumstances, of his Countess, Amy Robsart,
aspired to her hand; still favoured, in spite of his unpopularity in the country, he was proposed
as husband to Mary, Queen of Scots, in 1563; he married the dowager Lady Sheffield in 1573,
and afterwards bigamously the Countess of Essex; after a short term of disfavour he was appointed
commander in the Netherlands, and subsequently at Tilbury Fort, but proved an incapable soldier
(1532-1588).

LEICESTERSHIRE (374), English midland county, bounded by Nottingham, Lincoln, Rutland, Northampton,
Warwick, and Derby shires; is an undulating upland watered by the Soar, and mostly under pasture.
Leicester cattle and sheep are noted, and its Stilton cheeses. There are coal deposits and
granite and slate quarries in the N. The chief towns are Leicester, the county town, Loughborough,
and Hinckley.

LEIGH, AURORA, the heroine of Mrs. Browning's poem of the same name. She styled it "a novel
in verse," and wrote of it, it is "the most mature of my works, and the one into which my highest
convictions upon Life and Art have entered."

LEIGHTON, FREDERICK, LORD, eminent English artist, born at Scarborough; studied in the chief
art-centres of the Continent; his first exhibit at the Royal Academy being "Cimabue's Madonna
carried in Procession through Florence," which was followed by a numerous array of others of
classic merit, and showing the scholar as well as the artist; he distinguished himself in sculpture
as well as painting, and died President of the Royal Academy after being ennobled (1830-1897).

LEIGHTON, ROBERT, a Scottish theologian, the son of a Puritan clergyman in London, who wrote
a book against prelacy, and suffered cruelly at the hands of Laud in consequence; studied at
Edinburgh; entered the Church, and became Presbyterian minister at Newbattle in 1641, but resigned
in 1653; was made Principal of Edinburgh University; reluctantly consented to accept a bishopric,
and chose the diocese of Dunblane, but declined all lordship connected with the office; was
for a time archbishop of Glasgow; retired to England in 1674, and lived ten years afterwards
with a widowed sister in Sussex; he was a most saintly man, and long revered as such by the
Scottish people; his writings, which are highly imaginative, were much admired by Coleridge
(1611-1684).

LEIOTRICHI, a primitive race of people distinguished by their smooth hair.

LEIPZIG (357), in the W. of Saxony, and largest city of that kingdom; is the third city in
Germany. The old portion is narrow and quaint, with historic buildings; the new is well built,
with splendid edifices. It is the seat of the supreme court of the Empire, of an old university
which has a magnificent library and well-equipped medical school, and of one of the finest
conservatories of music in Europe. Its chief trade is in books, furs, leather, and cloth, and
its chief industries type-founding and pianoforte-making. It was the birthplace of Leibnitz
and Wagner, and is associated also with Bach and Mendelssohn.

LEITH (68), chief seaport in E. of Scotland, on the Forth, contiguous to Edinburgh and the
port of it; is an old, unattractive, but busy town. The harbour comprises five docks. The imports
are corn, flour, wines, sugar, and fruit; the exports, coal, iron, paraffin, and whisky. There
are shipbuilding and engineering works, breweries, distilleries, and other industries. Leith
Fort, between the town and Newhaven, is the head-quarters of the artillery for Scotland.

LEITHA, an Austrian stream which flows NE. and falls into the Danube E. of Vienna; divides
Cis-Leithan from Trans-Leithan.

LELAND, CHARLES, an American writer, born at Philadelphia; bred to the bar, but left law for
literature, and contributed to the journals; has taken interest in and written on the industrial
arts, social science, folk-lore, the gypsies, &c.; his works are numerous, and of a humorous
or burlesque character, and include "The Poetry and Mystery of Dreams," "The Legends of Birds,"
"Hans Breitmann's Ballads," &c.; b. 1824.

LELAND, JOHN, English antiquary, born in London; travelled much on the Continent and amassed
vast learning; held a commission from Henry VIII. to examine the antiquities and libraries
of England, in fulfilment of which charge he spent six years in collecting a world of things
that would otherwise have been lost, and the rest of his life, till he went insane, in arranging
them (1506-1552).

LELAND, JOHN, a Nonconformist minister, born in Wigan; wrote chiefly in defence of Christianity
against the attacks of the Deists (1691-1766).

LELY, SIR PETER, a painter, born in Westphalia; settled in London; took to portrait-painting,
and was patronised by Charles I. and II., as well as by Cromwell; he painted the portraits
of his patrons, and the beauties of Charles II.'s court; was Vandyck's successor (1618-1680).

LEMAN LAKE, the LAKE OF GENEVA (q. v.).

LEMBERG (128), the capital of Austrian Galicia, from its central position and ready communication
with rivers and railways, enjoys an extensive trade; Polish is the prevailing language; there
is a flourishing university, and of the population 40,000 are Jews.

LEMMING RAT, a rodent, which "travelling in myriads seawards from the hills," as seen in Norway,
"turns not to the right or the left, eats its way through whatever will eat, and climbs over
whatever will not eat, and perishes before reaching the sea, its consistent rigidly straight
journey, a journey nowhither." See the Application in the "Latter Pamphlet," No. 6.

LEMNOS (30), an island plateau in the Ægean Sea, 30 m. SW. of the Dardanelles, Turkish since
1657; produces corn, wine, and tobacco, and is a place of exile for Turkish prisoners; the
population is mostly Greek; chief town Kastro (3), on the W. coast.

LEMON, MARK, editor of Punch from 1843 to his death, born in London; began his career as a
dramatist, story-teller, and song-writer, writing 60 pieces for the stage and 100 songs (1809-1870).

LEM`URES, a name given by the Romans to the spirits of the dead, and who, such of them as are
ghosts of the wicked, wander about at night as spectres, and tormented themselves, torment
and frighten the living.

LENCLOS, NINON DE, a woman celebrated for wit and beauty, born in Paris, whose salon in the
city was frequented by all the notable personages of the period; she was a woman of superior
mental endowments as well as polished manners, but of loose morality and want of heart (1616-1705).

LENNEP, JACOB VAN, a Dutch dramatist and novelist, born at Amsterdam; bred to the bar and practised
as a lawyer; was a devoted student of English literature, and executed translations from English
poets; was called by his countrymen the Walter Scott of Holland (1802-1868).

LENNOX, an ancient district of Scotland that included Dumbartonshire and part of Stirlingshire.

LENORE, the heroine of a celebrated ballad by Bürger, the German lyric poet, a maiden whose
lover dies and whose spectre appears to her on horseback and carries her off mounted behind him.

LENORMANT, FRANÇOIS, a distinguished archæologist, born at Paris, a man of genius and of vast
learning; his chief works "Manuel d'Histoire Ancienne de l'Orient," "Lettres Assyriologues,"
"Les Premières Civilisations," and "Les Sciences Occultes en Asie" (1837-1883).

LENS, a piece of glass adapted as convex or concave so as to change the direction of the rays
of light passing through it and magnify or diminish the apparent size of an object.

LENT, a period of fasting previous to Easter, at first lasting only 40 hours, was gradually
extended to three, four, or six days, then different Churches extended it to three and six:
weeks; in the 6th century Gregory the Great fixed it for the West at 40 days from Ash Wednesday
to Easter, excluding Sundays; in the Eastern Church it begins on the Monday after quinquagesima
and excludes both Saturdays and Sundays; in the Anglican Church the season is marked by special
services, but the fast is not rigidly kept.

LENTHALL, WILLIAM, Speaker of the Long Parliament; is famous for his answer to the demand of
Charles to point out to him five members he had come to arrest, "May it please your Majesty,"
said he, failing on his knees, "I have neither eyes to see nor tongue to speak but as the House
directs me" (1591-1662).

LEO, the fifth sign of the zodiac, which the sun enters on July 22.

LEO, the name of six emperors of the East, of which the chief was Leo III., surnamed the Isaurian,
born in Isauria; raised to the imperial throne by the army, defeated by sea and land the Saracens
who threatened Constantinople; ruled peacefully for nine years, when he headed the ICONOCLAST
MOVEMENT (Q. V.), which provoked hostility and led to the revolt of Italy from the Greek empire;
d. 741.

LEO, the names of 13 popes: L. I., ST., Pope from 410 to 461; L. II., ST., pope from 682 to
683; L. III., Pope from 795 to 816; L. IV., pope from 847 to 855; L. V., Pope in 903; L. VI.,
Pope from 928 to 929; L. VII., Pope from 936 to 939; L. VIII., Pope from 963 to 965; L. IX.,
ST., Pope from 1049 to 1054; L. X., pope from 1513 to 1521; L. XI., Pope in 1605; L. XII.,
Pope from 1823 to 1829; L. XIII., Pope since 1878. Of these only the following deserve mention:--

LEO I., saint, surnamed the GREAT; was distinguished for his zeal against heretics, presided
at two councils, and persuaded Attila to retire from Rome on his invasion of Italy, as he persuaded
Genseric four years later to moderate the outrages of his troops in the city; his letters are
in evidence of the jurisdiction of the Roman over the universal Church. Festival, Nov. 10.

LEO III., proclaimed Charlemagne emperor of the West in 800; driven in 799 from the papal chair
by a conspiracy, he was reinstated by Charlemagne, who next year visited the city and was crowned
by him emperor.

LEO IX., saint; was elected at the Diet of Worms in 1048, welcomed at Rome, and applied himself
zealously to the reform of Church discipline; being defeated in the field by Guiscard, suffered
a 10 years' imprisonment, fell ill and died.

LEO X., Giovanni de' Medici, son of Lorenzo the Magnificent, sovereign of Florence; was distinguished
as a patron of art, science, and letters, and as occupant of the chair of St. Peter at the
outbreak of the Reformation, and as by his issue of indulgences for the replenishment of his
treasure provoking the movement and rousing the ire of Luther, which set the rest of Europe
on fire.

LEO XIII., 257th Pope of Rome, born at Carpineto; distinguished at college in mathematics,
physics, and philosophy; took holy orders in 1837, was nuncio to Belgium in 1843, became bishop
of Perugia in 1846, cardinal 1853, and Pope in 1878; holds to his rights as Pope both secular
and spiritual; believes in the Catholic Church as the only regenerator of society, and hails
every show of encroach it makes on the domain of Protestantism as promise of its universal
restoration; b. 1810.

LEON, an ancient kingdom in the NE. of Spain, united with Castile in 1230, with a capital of
the same name 256 m. NW. of Madrid. Also the name of a city in Nicaragua and another in Mexico.

LEONARDO DA VINCI, celebrated painter and sculptor of the Florentine school, born at Vinci
in the Val d'Arno; showed early a wonderful aptitude for art; studied under Andrea del Verrocchio,
but so surpassed him in his work as to drive him to renounce the painter's art; his great work,
executed by him at Milan, was the famous picture of the "Last Supper," which he painted in
oil about 1497 on the wall of the refectory of the Dominican convent of the Madonna delle Grazie;
it perished from the dampness of the wall almost as soon as it was finished, but happily copies
were taken of it before decay had ruined it; besides, Leonardo did in 1503 at Florence the
famous cartoon of the Battle of the Standard; he was a man of imposing personal appearance,
of very wide range of ability, and distinguished himself in engineering as well as art; he
wrote a "Treatise on Painting," which has been widely translated (1452-1519).

LEONIDAS, king of Sparta from 491 to 480 B.C.; opposed Xerxes, the Persian, who threatened
Greece with a large army, and kept him at bay at the Pass of Thermopylæ with 300 Spartans and
5000 auxiliaries till he was betrayed by EPHIALTES (q. v.), when he and his 300 threw themselves
valiantly on the large host, and perished fighting to the last man.

LEONIDS, meteors which descend in showers during November in certain years, their chief centre
being the constellation Leo.

LEOPARDI, GIACOMO, modern Italian poet, born near Ancona; a precocious genius; an omnivorous
reader as a boy, and devoted to literature; of a weakly constitution, he became a confirmed
invalid, and died suddenly; had sceptical leanings; wrote lyrics inspired by a certain sombre
melancholy (1788-1837).

LEOPOLD I., king of the Belgians, son of the Duke of Saxe-Coburg; in his youth served in the
Russian army; visited England in 1815, and married Princess Charlotte, who died two years later;
he declined the throne of Greece in 1830, but accepted that of the Belgians in 1831, and proved
a wise, firm, constitutional sovereign; in 1832 he married the French princess Louise; he was
succeeded by his son Leopold II. (1790-1865).

LEOPOLD II., king of the Belgians, born at Brussels, son and successor of Leopold I.; has travelled
much in Europe and Asia Minor; founded, and is now ruler of, the Congo Free State; married
in 1853 the Archduchess Maria of Austria, by whom he has had three daughters; b. 1835.

LEPSIUS, KARL RICHARD, a celebrated Egyptologist, born in Prussian Saxony; took at first to
the study of philology under Bopp, but early devoted himself to the study of the antiquities
of Egypt; headed in 1842 an expedition of research among the monuments under the king of Prussia,
which occupied five years, and was fertile in important results, among others the production
of a work in 12 vols. on the subject entitled "Denkmäleraus Egypten und Ethiopien," issued
between 1849 and 1860; he was the author also of works on philology (1810-1884).

LERNÆAN HYDRA, a monster with nine heads, one of them immortal, that infested a swamp near
Lernæ, and which Hercules was required to slay as one of his twelve labours, only as often
as he cut off one head two grew on, but with the assistance of Iolcus his servant he singed
off the eight mortal ones, cut down the ninth, and buried it under a huge rock.

LERWICK (31), the capital of Shetland, on the E. of Mainland; fishing and knitting the chief
industries.

LE SAGE, ALAIN RENÉ, French dramatist and novelist, born at Sarzeau, in Brittany; educated
at a Jesuit school at Vannes; went to Paris in 1692; studied the Spanish language and literature,
and produced translations of Spanish works and imitations; some of his dramas attained great
popularity, and one in particular, the "Turcaret," a satire on the time generally, and not
merely, as represented, on financiers of the period, gave offence; but the works by which he
is best known are his novels "Le Diable Boiteux" and "Gil Blas," his masterpiece (1668-1747).

LESBOS (36), modern name Mytilene, a mountainous island, the largest on the Asia Minor coast,
10 m. off shore and 20 m. N. of the Gulf of Symrna; has a delightful climate, disturbed by
earthquakes, fertile soil, and produces fine olive-oil. In ancient Greek days it was a cradle
of literature, the home of Sappho, and famous for its wine; Turkish since 1462, its population
is mostly Greek; chief town Castro (12), on the E. coast.

LESE-MAJESTY, name given to a crime against the sovereign.

LESLIE, name of a Scottish family distinguished in Scottish history as well as for military
service in foreign parts.

LESLIE, CHARLES, non-juring controversial divine, born in Dublin, wrote "A Short and Easy Method
with the Jews," and another with the Deists (1650-1722).

LESLIE, SIR JOHN, natural philosopher and professor, born at Largo, Fifeshire; educated at
St. Andrews and Edinburgh University; visited America in 1788, and returned to London 1790;
for fifteen years he was engaged in scientific investigation, invented several instruments,
and published his "Inquiry into the Nature of Heat," for which he received the Rumford Medal
from the Royal Society; appointed to the chair of Mathematics in Edinburgh in 1805, he was
transferred to that of Natural Philosophy in 1819; continued his researches and inventions,
and shortly before his death was knighted (1766-1832).

LESPINASSE, a French lady, born in Lyons, famous for her wit, to whom D'Alembert was much attached,
and the centre of a learned circle in Paris in her time (1731-1776).

LESSEPS, FERDINAND DE, French diplomatist, born at Versailles; conceived the scheme of connecting
the Red Sea with the Mediterranean in 1854, and saw it finished as the Suez Canal in 1869;
projected a similar scheme for a canal at Panama, but it ended in failure, disgrace, and ruin
to the projectors as well as others (1805-1894).

LESSING, GOTTHOLD EPHRAIM, a German author, and founder of modern German literature, born at
Kamenz, Saxony, son of the pastor there; sent to study theology at Leipzig, studied hard; conceived
a passion for the stage; wrote plays and did criticisms; wrote an essay on Pope; took English
authors as his models, revolted against those of France; made it his aim to inaugurate or rather
revive a purely German literature, and produced examples regarded as classics to this day;
his principal dramas, all conceived on the soil, are "Miss Sara Sampson," "Mina von Barnhelm,"
"Emilia Galotti," and "Nathan der Weise," and his principal prose works are his "Fables" and
"Laocoon," a critical work on art still in high repute (1729-1781).

L'ESTRANGE, SIR ROGER, a zealous Royalist, born in Norfolk; was for his zeal in the royal cause
committed to prison; having escaped, he was allowed to live in retirement under Cromwell, but
woke up a vigorous pamphleteer and journalist in the old interest at the Restoration, "wounding
his Whig foes very sorely, and making them wince"; he translated Josephus, Cicero's "Offices,"
Seneca's "Morals," the "Colloquies" of Erasmus, and Quevedo's "Visions," his most popular work
(1616-1704).

LETHE (i. e. oblivion), in the Greek mythology a stream in the nether world, a draught of the
waters of which, generally extended to the ghosts of the dead on their entrance into Pluto's
kingdom, obliterated all recollection of the past and its sorrows.

LETO (i. e. the hidden one), one of the Titan brood, who became by Zeus the mother of Apollo
and Artemis, and for whose confinement, in her persecution by Hera, Poseidon by a stroke of
his trident fixed the till then floating island of Delos to the sea-bottom.

LETTER OF MARQUE, a commission to the captain of a merchant ship or a privateer to make reprisals
on an enemy's ships or property.

LETTERS PATENT, a document under seal of the government granting some special privilege to
a person.

LETTRES DE CACHET (i. e. sealed letters), warrants of imprisonment, issued prior to the Revolution,
sealed with the private seal of the king, in contradistinction from lettres patentées, which
were sealed by the Great Seal of the kingdom. See CACHET, LETTRE DE.

LEUCIPPUS, a Greek philosopher of the 6th century B.C., the founder of the Atomic theory of
things, of which DEMOCRITUS (q. v.) was the chief expounder.

LEUCTRA, a village in Boeotia, to the S. of Thebes, where in 371 B.C. Epaminondas and his Thebans
overthrew the ascendency of Sparta.

LEUTHEN, a village in the W. of Breslau, in Silesia, where Frederick the Great defeated the
Austrians with great loss in 1757.

LEVANA, the title of a book by Jean Paul on the education of children; title from the name
of a Roman goddess, the protectress of foundlings.

LEVANT (i. e. the Rising), a name given to the E. of the Mediterranean and the regions adjoining
by the western peoples of the Mediterranean.

LEVEE, a morning reception held by the sovereign or some one of high rank.

LEVELLERS, a party of violent red-hot Republicans, led on by John Lilburne, who appeared in
the time of the Commonwealth, but were suppressed by Cromwell.

LEVER, CHARLES JAMES, a novelist, born at Dublin, was by profession a physician; author of
a numerous series of Irish stories written in a rollicking humour, "Harry Lorrequer" and "Charles
O'Malley" among the chief; was a contributor to and for some time editor of Dublin University
Magazine; held ultimately various consular appointments abroad, and after that wrote with success
in a more sober style (1806-1872).

LEVERRIER, URBAN JEAN JOSEPH, French astronomer, born at St. Lô; distinguished in chemistry
before he devoted himself to astronomy; rose to eminence in the latter science by a paper on
the variations in the orbits of the planets, and was led to the discovery of the planet Neptune
from perturbations in the orbit of the planet Uranus; he indicated the spot where the planet
would be found, and it was actually discovered a few days after by Galle at Berlin (1811-1877).

LEVI, LEON, commercial economist, born at Ancona; settled in England and was naturalised; drew
attention to the want of commercial organisation, and to whose pleading the first chamber of
commerce, that of Liverpool, owes its existence; became professor of Commercial Law in King's
College, London (1821-1888).

LEVIRITE LAW, a law among the Jews which ordained if a husband died without issue that his
brother should take his widow to wife and raise up seed to him (Deut. xxv. 5-10).

LEVITES, a body of men divided into courses, the servants of the priests in the worship of
the Temple of Jerusalem; they were not permitted to enter the sanctuary or serve at the altar,
their duties being limited to keeping watch over the Temple, slaying the victims, and making
other preparations for the sacred services.

LEVITICAL DEGREES, relationships that preclude marriage, so called as presumably fixed by the
Levitical priesthood of the Jews.

LEVITICUS, the third book of the Pentateuch, so called as containing the laws and ordinances
appointed to regulate the services of the sanctuary as conducted by a priesthood of the tribe
of Levi, the narrative portion of it recording the consecration of Aaron and his sons, the
death of Nadab and Abihu, and the stoning of the blasphemer, embracing a period of only one
year, and the legislation of it no longer issuing from Mount Sinai, but from the door of the
Tabernacle.

LEWALD, FANNY, an eminent German novelist, born at Königsberg, of Jewish parents; professed
Christianity and was married to Adolf Stahr; was a realist in art and a zealous woman's rights
advocate (1811-1889).

LEWES (11), the county town of Sussex, finely situated on a slope of the South Downs, 10 m.
NE. of Brighton; was the scene of a victory of Simon de Montfort in 1264 over the forces of
Henry III.; has a trade in corn and malt, and tanneries.

LEWES, GEORGE HENRY, a versatile man of letters, born in London, the son of an actor; wrote
a "Biographical History of Philosophy" from the Positivist standpoint, published originally
in 1845, and a "Life of Goethe" in 1855, "Seaside Studies," "Problems of Life and Mind," &c.,
and edited the Fortnightly Review; he did much to popularise both science and philosophy; though
a married man with children, formed a connection with George Eliot, and died in her house (1817-1878).

LEWIS, SIR GEORGE CORNWALL, English statesman and political philosopher, born in London; held
several important posts under and in the governments of the day; wrote on "Early Roman History,"
"The Influence of Authority on Matters of Opinion," "The Best Form of Government," "Ancient
Astronomy," &c. (1806-1863).

LEWIS, MATTHEW GREGORY, romancer, familiarly known as Monk Lewis from the name of his principal
novel, the "Monk," which was written, along with others, in Mrs. Radcliffe's vein and immensely
popular, and literally swarmed with ghosts and demons (1773-1818).

LEYDEN, one of the chief towns of Holland and characteristically Dutch, 15 m. NW. of The Hague,
with a famous university founded by the Prince of Orange in 1576, containing the richest natural
history museum in the world; it is noted for the bravery and power of endurance of its inhabitants,
manifest for a whole year (1573-74) during the War of Independence.

LEYDEN, JOHN, poet and Orientalist, born in Denholm, son of a shepherd; bred for the Church,
his genius and abilities attracted the notice of influential people; was introduced to Scott,
and assisted him in his "Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border"; went to India as a military surgeon;
studied and prelected on the native dialects; became a judge in Calcutta; died of fever (1775-1811).

LEYDEN, JOHN OF, leader of the Anabaptists in Münster, born in The Hague; beset with his followers,
who regarded him as a prophet, in Münster, he was taken alive after a siege of six months and
tortured to death in 1536.

LEYDEN, LUCAS VAN, an eminent early Dutch painter and engraver, born in Leyden; succeeded in
every branch of painting, and, like Dürer, engraved his own pictures; his works are highly
valued, and some of them very rare; he spent his means in high living and died young, only
39 (1494-1533).

LEYDEN JAR, an electric condenser, a cylindrical glass bottle lined inside and outside with
metal to within a short distance from the top, while a brass rod connected with the inside
coating extends upward through a wooden stopper terminating in a knob.

LEYS SCHOOL, the Cambridge school founded in 1875 to supply under unsectarian religious influences
a high-class education, the founders of it having been chiefly members of the Methodist body.

LHASSA (seat of the gods) (50), the capital of Thibet, and the metropolis of the Buddhist world
in the Chinese Empire, stands in the middle of a plain 11,900 ft. above the sea-level; on a
hill in the NW. of the centre of the city, a conical hill called Potala, amid temples and palaces,
is the residence of the Grand Lama; the monasteries are 15 in number, and the priests 20,000,
and it is the centre of the caravan trade.

L'HÔPITAL. See HÔPITAL, MICHEL DE L'.

LI, a Chinese mile, equal to one-third of an English mile.

LIA-FAIL, the stone of destiny on which the Irish kings used to be crowned, which was at length
removed to Scone, in Perthshire, and is now in Westminster under the coronation chair, having
been removed thither by Edward I.

LIBERALISM, MODERN, "practically summed up" by Ruskin, in "the denial or neglect of the quality
and intrinsic worth in things, the incapacity of discerning or refusal to discern worth and
unworth in anything, and least of all in man."

LIBERAL-UNIONIST, one of the Liberal party in English politics, which in 1886 quitted the Liberal
ranks and joined the Conservative party in opposition to the Home Rule policy of Mr. Gladstone.

LIBERATIONIST, one who advocates the emancipation of the Church from State control.

LIBERIA (1,500), a negro republic on the Grain Coast of Africa, founded in 1822 by American
philanthropists as a settlement for freedmen, with a constitution after the model of the United
States.

LIBERTY, FRATERNITY, AND EQUALITY, the trinity of modern democracy, and which first found expression
as a political creed in the French Revolution, of which the first term is now held to require
definition, the second to have only a sentimental basis, and the third to be in violation of
the fact of things; universal suffrage is the expression of it politically.

LIBRATION, the name given to certain apparent movements in the moon as if it swayed like a
balance both in latitude and longitude in its revolution round the earth.

LIBRI-CARRUCCI, COUNT, Italian mathematician; professor at Pisa, but obliged to resign for
his liberal opinions and take refuge in France, where he was made professor at the Sorbonne,
was a kleptomaniac in the matter of books (1803-1869).

LIBYA, a name by the early geographers to the territory in Africa which lay between Egypt,
Ethiopia, and the shores of the Atlantic.

LICHFIELD (8), ancient ecclesiastical town in Staffordshire, 15 m. SE. of Stafford, an episcopal
see since 656, with a cathedral in Early English style, recently completely restored; has an
ancient grammar school, a museum, and school of art; the birthplace of Samuel Johnson; its
industries are brewing, coachbuilding, and implement making.

LICHTENBERG, GEORG CHRISTOPH, German physicist and satirist, born near Darmstadt; was educated
at Göttingen, and appointed professor there in 1770; he wrote a commentary on Hogarth's copperplates;
his reputation in Germany as a satirist is high (1742-1799).

LICINIUS, CAIUS, a Roman tribune and consul, of plebeian birth, author of several laws intended
to minimise the distinction politically between patrician and plebeian, in office between 376
and 361 B.C.

LICK OBSERVATORY, an observatory built at the expense of James Lick, an American millionaire,
on one of the peaks of Mount Hamilton, California, with a telescope that has the largest object-glass
of any in the world.

LICTOR, an officer in Rome who bore the FASCES (q. v.) before a magistrate when on duty.

LIDDELL, HENRY GEORGE, Greek lexicographer, graduated at Oxford in 1833; was tutor of Christ
Church, and in 1845 appointed professor of Moral Philosophy; he was successively Head-master
of Winchester, Dean of Christ Church, and Vice-Chancellor of Oxford from 1870 to 1874; his
great work is a Greek lexicon (first edition 1843, last 1883), of which he was joint-author
with Dr. Robert Scott, and which is the standard work of its kind in English; b. 1811.

LIDDON, HENRY PARRY, canon of St. Paul's, London, born in Hants; educated at Christ Church,
Oxford; eminent both as a scholar and a preacher; author of an eloquent course of lectures,
the Bampton, "On the Divinity of Jesus Christ"; belonged to the Liberal section of the High-Church
party (1829-1890).

LIEBIG, BARON VON, eminent German chemist, born at Darmstadt; in 1824 attracted the attention
of Alexander von Humboldt by a paper before the Institute of France on fulminates, and was
appointed to the chair of Chemistry in Giessen, where he laboured 28 years, attracting students
from all quarters, and where his laboratory became a model of many others elsewhere; wrote
a number of works on chemistry, inorganic and organic, animal and agricultural, and their applications,
as well as papers and letters; accepted a professorship in Münich in 1852, and in 1860 was
appointed President of the Münich Academy of Sciences (1803-1873).

LIÈGE (160), a town in Belgium and capital of the Walloons, in a very picturesque region at
the confluence of the Ourthe with the Meuse, the busiest town in Belgium and a chief seat of
the woollen manufacture; it is divided in two by the Meuse, which is spanned by 17 bridges;
it is the centre of a great mining district, and besides woollens has manufactures of machinery,
and steel and iron goods.

LIEGNITZ (46), a town in Silesia, 40 m. NW. of Breslau, where Frederick the Great gained a
victory over the Austrians in 1760.

LIFEGUARDS, the British royal household troops, consisting of cavalry and infantry regiments.

LIGHTFOOT, JOHN, Orientalist and divine, born at Stoke-upon-Trent, son of a clergyman, educated
at Cambridge; took orders and was rector of Ashley, Staffordshire, till 1642; next year he
was one of the most influential members of the Westminster Assembly; in 1652 he was made D.D.,
was Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge in 1653, and subsequently prebendary of Ely; one of England's
earlier Hebrew scholars, the great work of his life was the "Horæ Hebraicæ et Talmudicæ," published
in large part posthumously (1602-1675).

LIGHTFOOT, JOSEPH BARBER, bishop of Durham, born at Liverpool; was a Fellow of Trinity College,
Cambridge, was eminent among English scholars as a New Testament exegete, became bishop of
Durham in 1879; died at Bournemouth (1828-1889).

LIGNY, a village 13 m. from Charleroi, where Napoleon defeated Blücher two days before the
battle of Waterloo while Wellington and Marshal Ney were engaged at Quatre Bras.

LIGUORI, ST. ALPHONSE MARIA DI, founder of the Redemptorists, born at Naples of a noble family;
bred to the law, but devoted himself to a religious life, received holy orders, lived a life
of austerity, and gave himself up to reclaim the lost and instruct the poor and ignorant; was
a man of extensive learning, and found time from his pastoral labours to contribute extensively
to theological literature and chiefly casuistry, to the extent of 70 volumes; was canonised
in 1839; the order he founded is called by his own name as well (1696-1787).

LIGURIAN REPUBLIC, a name given by Bonaparte to the republic of Genoa, founded in 1797.

LI HUNG CHANG, an eminent and enlightened Chinese statesman; is favourable to European culture
and intercourse with Europe; was sent as a special envoy to the Czar's coronation in 1896,
and afterwards visited other countries in Europe, including our own, and the States and Canada;
b. 1823.

LILBURNE, JOHN, a victim of the Star-Chamber in the time of Charles I., and exposed on the
pillory as well as fined and imprisoned; joined the Parliamentary ranks and fought for the
Commonwealth, but as an Independent indulged in violent harangues against Cromwell, and was
committed to the Tower, but on his release turned Quaker (1618-1657).

LILITH or LILIS, the name of Adam's first wife, whom, according to Jewish tradition, he had
before Eve, and who bore him in that wedlock the whole progeny of aërial, aquatic, and terrestrial
devils, and who, it seems, still wanders about the world bewitching men to like issue and slaying
little children not protected by amulets against her.

LILLE (161), chief town in the department of Nord, in the extreme N. of France, 60 m. inland
from Calais, an ancient and at present very strong fortress, is in a fertile district; the
town, rebuilt in modern times, has a Catholic university, a medical school, library, and art
gallery, and thriving industries, linen, cotton, tobacco, sugar, and many others.

LILLIPUT, a country inhabited by a very diminutive race of men not larger in size than a man's
finger, visited by Gulliver in his travels.

LILLO, GEORGE, English dramatist, born in London, by trade a jeweller; wrote seven comedies,
of which "The Fatal Curiosity" and "George Barnwell" are the best and the best appreciated
(1693-1739).

LILLY, WILLIAM, an English astrologer, born in Leicestershire, who made gain by his fortune-telling
during the Commonwealth period especially, but got into trouble afterwards as a presumed mischief-maker
(1602-1681).

LIMA (200), capital of Peru, 6 m. inland from Callao, its port, a picturesque but somewhat
shabby city, 700 ft. above the sea-level, regularly built, with many plazas; has a cathedral
and 70 churches; trade is in the hands of foreigners, mostly Germans, and industries are unimportant;
it was founded by Pizarro, and his bones lie buried in the cathedral.

LIMBURG, in the basin of the Meuse, formerly a duchy, was after various fortunes divided in
1839 into Belgian Limburg (225), on the W. of the river, capital Hasselt (13), and Dutch Limburg
(262), on the E., capital Maestricht (33); partly moorland and partly arable, it has coal,
iron, sugar, and tobacco industries.

LIMBUS or LIMBO, according to Catholic theologians a region on the confines of Hades tenanted,
the limbus patrum, by the souls of good men who died before Christ's advent, and the limbus
infantium, by the souls of unbaptized infants, both of whom await there the resurrection morn
to join the ransomed in heaven.

LIMELIGHT, a bright light caused by making a stream of two gases, oxygen and nitrogen, play
in a state of ignition on a piece of compact quicklime.

LIMERICK (159), Irish county on the S. of the Shannon estuary, between Tipperary and Kerry,
watered by the Mulcai, Maigue, and Deel; hilly in the S., is mostly fertile, and under corn
and green crops; cattle are reared and dairy products exported; some woollens and paper manufactured.
There are many antiquities. Limerick (37), the county town, on the Shannon, is the fourth Irish
seaport, and manufactures a little lace.

LIMITED LIABILITY, liability on the part of the shareholders of a joint-stock company limited
by the amount of their shares.

LIMOGES (68), chief town in the dep. of Haute-Vienne, on the Vienne River, 250 m. S. of Paris;
has a Gothic cathedral; is one of the chief manufacturing towns of France. Its porcelain and
woollen cloths are widely famed; it has a large transit trade; it gives name to a fine kind
of surface enamel, which was brought to perfection there.

LINCOLN (44), capital of Lincolnshire, on the Witham, 130 m. N. of London; is a very old and
quaint city, with one of the finest cathedrals in England, and many historic buildings. Its
annual spring horse-fair is among the largest in the world. It manufactures agricultural instruments,
and trades in flour. Its stands on the Oolitic Ridge, and commands a wide view of the Trent Valley.

LINCOLN, ABRAHAM, sixteenth President of the United States, born near Hodgensville, Kentucky;
spent his boyhood there and in the Indiana forests, and picked up some education in the backwoods
schools; passed some years in rough work; he was clerk in a store at New Salem, Illinois; became
village postmaster and deputy county surveyor, and began to study law; from 1834 to 1842 he
led the Whigs in the State legislature, and in 1846 entered Congress; he prospered as a lawyer,
and almost left politics; but the opening of the slavery question in 1854 recalled him, and
in a series of public debates with Stephen Douglas established his reputation as debater and
abolitionist; unsuccessful in his candidature for the Senate, he was nominated by the Republicans
for the Presidency, and elected 1860; his election was the signal for the secession of the
Southern States; Lincoln refused to recognise the secession, accepted the war, and prosecuted
it with energy; on New Year's day, 1863, he proclaimed the emancipation of the negroes, and
was re-elected President in 1864, but shortly after his second inauguration was assassinated;
he was a man of high character, straightforward, steadfast, and sympathetic (1809-1865).

LINCOLN'S INN. See INNS OF COURT.

LINCOLNSHIRE (473), maritime county in the E. of England, between the Humber and the Wash,
next to Yorkshire in size, consists of upland country in the W., chalk downs in the E., and
fens in the S., but these well reclaimed and cultivated. It is watered by the Trent, Witham,
and Welland, and crossed by numerous canals. Iron abounds in the W.; sheep, cattle, and horses
are raised. Grimsby is a shipping and fishing centre. Sir Isaac Newton and Lord Tennyson were
born in the county, which has many historic associations.

LINCRUSTA WALTON, a plastic material invented by Walton, capable of being moulded into raised
patterns for decorating walls, &c.

LIND, JENNY (Madame Otto Goldschmidt), the Swedish nightingale, born at Stockholm; giving evidence
of her power of song in childhood, she was put under a master at nine; too soon put to practise
in public, her voice at twelve showed signs of contracting, but after four years recovered
its full power, when, appearing as Alice in "Robert le Diable," the effect was electric; henceforth
her fame was established, and followed her over the world; in 1844 she made a round of the
chief cities of Germany; made her first appearance in London in 1847, and visited New York
in 1851, where she married, and then left the stage for good, to appear only now and again
at intervals for some charitable object; she was plain looking, and a woman of great simplicity
both in manners and ways of thinking (1821-1882).

LINDLEY, JOHN, distinguished botanist, born near Norwich; wrote extensively on botany according
to the natural system of classification, and did much to popularise the study; was professor
of the science in London University (1799-1865).

LINDSAY, name of a Scottish family of Norman extraction, and that first figures in Scottish
history in the reign of David I.

LINDSAY or LYNDSAY, SIR DAVID, OF THE MOUNT, Scottish poet, born at the Mount, near Cupar,
Fife, at the grammar-school of which he was educated, as afterwards at St. Andrews University;
was usher to James V. from his childhood, and knighted by him after he came of age; did diplomatic
work in England, France, the Netherlands, and Denmark; is famous as the author of, among others,
three poems, the "Satire of the Three Estates," "Dialogues between Experience and a Courtier,"
and the "History of Squire Meldrum," of which the first is the most worthy of note, and is
divided into five parts, the main body of it a play of an allegorical kind instinct with conventional
satire; without being a partisan of the Reformation, his works, from the satire in them being
directed against the Church, contributed very materially to its reception in Scotland approximately
(1490-1555).

LINGA, a symbol in the phallus worship of the East of the male or generative power in nature.
This worship prevails among the Hindu sect of the Givas or Sivas, and the symbol takes the
form of the pistil of a flower, or an erect cylindrical stone.

LINGARD, JOHN, historian, born at Winchester, the son of a carpenter; besides a work on the
"Antiquity of the Anglo-Saxon Church," wrote a "History of England from the Roman Invasion
to the Reign of William III.," the first written that shows anything like scholarly accuracy,
and fairly impartial, though the author's religious views as a Roman Catholic, it is alleged,
distort the facts a little (1771-1851).

LINGUA FRANCA, a jargon composed of a mixture of languages used in trade intercourse.

LINLITHGOW (4), the county town of Linlithgowshire, 16 m. W. of Edinburgh, on the S. shore
of a loch of the name, with a palace, the birthplace of James V.; the county (52) lying on
the S. shore of the Forth, and rich in minerals.

LINNÆUS, or more properly LINNÉ, KARL VON, great Swedish naturalist, specially in the department
of botany, a branch to the study of which he was devoted from his earliest years; he was the
founder of the system of the classification of plants which bears his name, and which is determined
by the number and disposition of the reproductive organs, but which is now superseded by the
natural system of Jussieu; he was professor at Upsala, and his works on his favourite subject
were numerous, and extended far and wide his reputation as a naturalist (1707-1778).

LINNELL, JOHN, English painter, painted portraits at first, but in the end landscapes, of which
last "The Windmill" and a wood scene are in the National Gallery; he was a friend and an admirer
of William Blake (1807-1882).

LINOLEUM, a floorcloth, being a composition of cork and linseed oil with chloride of silver.

LINOTYPE, a contrivance for setting and casting words or lines for printing.

LINZ (47), the capital of the crownland of Upper Austria, on the right bank of the Danube;
a busy commercial place, a great railway centre, and the seat of the manufacture of woollen
goods, linen, tobacco, &c.; is also of great strategical importance in time of war.

LION, THE, the king of animals, was the symbol of power, courage, and virtue, and in Christian
art of the resurrection; is in general, as Mr. Fairholt remarks, "a royal symbol, and in emblem
of dominion, command, magnanimity, vigilance, and strength; representing when couchant sovereignty,
when rampant magnanimity, when passant resolution, when guardant prudence, when saliant valour,
when sciant counsel, and when regardant circumspection."

LIP`ARI ISLANDS (22), a group of islands of volcanic origin, 12 in number, off the N. coast
of Sicily, in two of which, Vulcano and Stromboli, the volcanic force is still active, the
latter emitting clouds of steam at intervals of five minutes.

LIPPE (128), an old N. German principality, the principal towns of which are Detmold, Lemgo,
and Horn.

LIPPI, FILIPPINO, Italian painter, son of the succeeding; is presumed to have been a pupil
of BOTTICELLI'S (q. v.); his earliest known work is the "Vision of St. Bernard" in Florence,
and he executed various works in Bologna, Genoa, and Rome; painted frescoes and altar-pieces,
and scenes in the lives of St. Peter and St. Paul (1460-1504).

LIPPI, FRA FILIPPO, Italian painter, born at Florence; left an orphan, was brought up in a
monastery, where his talent for art was developed and encouraged; went to Ancona, was carried
off by pirates, but procured his release by his skill in drawing, and returning to Italy practised
his art in Florence and elsewhere, till one day he eloped with a novice in a nunnery who sat
to him for a Madonna, by whom he became the father of a son no less famous than himself; he
prosecuted his art amid poverty with zeal and success to the last; distinguished by Ruskin
(Fors xxiv. 4) as the only monk who ever did good painter's work; he had Botticelli for a pupil
(1412-1469).

LIPSIUS, JUSTUS, an erudite Belgian scholar, with fast and loose religious principles; was
the author of numerous learned works (1547-1579).

LIPSIUS, RICHARD ADELBERT, distinguished German theologian, born in Gera; professor in succession
at Vienna, Kiel, and Jena; wrote on dogmatics, the philosophy of religion, and New Testament
criticism (1830-1892).

LISBON (301), the capital of Portugal, a magnificent town, built on the N. bank of the Tagus,
9 m. from its mouth, extends along the banks of the river 9 m. and inland 5 m.; it boasts of
an array of fine buildings and squares, a number of literary and scientific institutions, and
a spacious harbour; is remarkable for a marble aqueduct which brings water more than 10 m.
across the valley of Alcantara; the manufactures include tobacco, soap, wool, and chemicals,
and the exports wine, oil, and fruits; it suffered from an earthquake of great violence in
1755, by which the greater part of the city was destroyed, and from 30,000 to 40,000 of the
inhabitants were killed.

LISTER, JOSEPH, LORD, eminent surgeon, born at Upton, Essex; the founder of modern antiseptic
surgery, and is as such reckoned among the world's greatest benefactors; was President of the
British Association in 1896, and is surgeon-extraordinary to the Queen; b. 1827.

LISTON, JOHN, an English actor of low comedy, and long famous on the London stage, to which
he was introduced by Charles Kemble; d. 1846.

LISTON, ROBERT, a celebrated surgeon, born in Linlithgowshire; studied in Edinburgh and London;
was distinguished as an operator; was professor of Clinical Surgery in University College,
London, and author of "Elements of Surgery" and "Practical Surgery" (1794-1847).

LISZT, ABBÉ FRANZ, famous pianist, a Hungarian by birth; born with a genius for music, his
first efforts at composition were not successful, and it was not till he heard what Paganini
made of the violin that he thought what might be made of the piano, and that he devoted himself
to the culture of piano music, with the result that he not only became the first pianist himself,
but produced a set of compositions that had the effect of raising the art to the highest pitch
of perfection; he was a zealous Catholic, and took holy orders, but this did not damp his ardour
or weaken his power as a musician; he spent the greater part of his life at Weimar, but he
practised his art far and wide, and his last visit to England in 1886, the year on which he
died, created quite a flutter in musical circles (1811-1886).

LITANY, a form of supplication in connection with some impending calamity in which the prayer
of the priest or officiating clergyman is responded to by the congregation.

LITHUANIA, formerly a grand-duchy occupying portions of the valleys of the Dwina, Niemen, Dnieper,
and Bug; for centuries connected with Poland; passed to Russia in 1814. The Lithuanians are
a distinct race of the Indo-European stock, fair and handsome, with a language of their own,
and a literature rich in folk-lore and songs. Of a strong religious temperament, they embraced
Christianity late (13th century), and still retain many pagan superstitions; formerly serfs,
they are now a humble peasantry engaged in agriculture, cattle-breeding, and bee-keeping.

LITMUS, a colouring matter obtained from certain lichens; extensively used in chemical experiments
to detect acids, for instance.

LITTLE CORPORAL, a name given to Bonaparte after the battle of Lodi from his small stature,
he being only 5 ft. 2 in.

LITTLE ENGLANDERS, those politicians who hold that English statesmen should concern themselves
with England only and its internal affairs.

LITTLETON, SIR THOMAS, English jurist of the 15th century; was recorder of Coventry in 1450,
judge of Common Pleas 1466, and knighted in 1475; his work on "Tenures" was the first attempt
to classify the law of land rights, and was the basis of the famous "Coke upon Littleton"; d. 1481.

LITTRÉ, a celebrated French scholar, physician, philologist, and philosopher, born in Paris;
wrote on medical subjects, and translated Hippocrates; was of the Positivist school in philosophy,
and owes his fame chiefly to his "Dictionnaire de la Langue Française," published in 1863-72,
and on which he spent forty years' labour (1801-1881).

LITURGY is sometimes used as including any form of public worship, but more strictly it denotes
the form for the observance of the Eucharist. As development from the simple form of their
institution in the primitive Church liturgies assumed various forms, and only by degrees certain
marked types began to prevail: viz., the Roman, ascribed to St. Peter, in Latin, and prevailing
in the Roman Catholic Church all over the world; the Ephesian, ascribed to St. John, in corrupt
Latin, included the old Scottish and Irish forms, heard now only in a few places in Spain;
the Jerusalem, ascribed to St. James, in Greek, the form of the Greek Church and in translation
of the Armenians; the Babylonian, ascribed to St. Thomas, in Syriac, used still by the Nestorians
and Christians of St. Thomas; and the Alexandrian, ascribed to St. Mark, in a Græco-Coptic
jargon, in use among the Copts; these all contain certain common elements, but differ in order
and in subsidiary parts; the Anglican liturgy is adapted from the Roman; other Protestant liturgies
or forms of service are mostly of modern date and compiled from Scripture sources.

LIVA, an Italian coin worth 9½ d., and the monetary unit in the country.

LIVERPOOL (585), the third city and first seaport of Great Britain, in Lancashire, on the Mersey,
3 m. from the sea, formerly the chief seat of the slave interest in Britain; owed its present
prosperity to the impulse of the cotton trade at the end of the 18th century; progressing rapidly
it has now docks stretching six miles along the Mersey, which receive a sixth of the tonnage
that visits British ports; through it passes a third of our foreign trade, including enormous
imports of wheat and cotton and exports of cotton goods; it possesses shipbuilding and engineering
works, iron-foundries, flour, tobacco, and chemical factories; the public buildings, town hall,
exchange, colleges, and observatory are fine edifices; it was the native place of W. E. Gladstone.

LIVERPOOL, EARL OF, ROBERT JENKINSON, English statesman, educated at Oxford; entered Parliament
1791, and as Foreign Secretary negotiated the peace of Amiens in 1802; becoming Lord Hawkesbury
in 1803, he became Home Secretary under Pitt, and succeeding to the earldom in 1808; was War
Secretary under Perceval in 1800, Premier from 1812 to 1827; he liberalised the tariff and
maintained a sound finance, uniting and holding together the Tory party at a critical period
(1770-1828).

LIVERYMEN, name given to members of the several guilds or corporations of London and freemen
of the city, so called as entitled to wear the livery belonging to their respective companies;
they possess certain privileges of a civic character.

LIVINGSTONE, DAVID, African traveller and missionary, born in Blantyre, Lanarkshire; began
life as a mill-worker, studied medicine and theology at Glasgow, and was sent out to Africa
by the London Missionary Society in 1840, landed at Port Natal, and addressed himself to missionary
work; moving north, he arrived at Lake Ngami in 1849, and ascending the Zambesi in 1853 arrived
at Loanda next year; later on he explored the course of the Zambesi and its tributaries, discovered
Lake Nyassa, and set himself to discover the sources of the Nile, but this expedition proved
too much for him, and he died exhausted; his body was embalmed, brought home to England, and
buried in Westminster Abbey (1815-1873).

LIVIUS, TITUS (LIVY), illustrious Roman historian, born at Patavium (Padua); appears to have
settled early in Rome and spent the most of his life there; his reputation rests on his "History
of Rome from the Foundation of the City to the Death of Drusus," it consisted of 142 chapters,
but of these only 30 remain entire and 5 in fragments, bequeathing to posterity his account
of the early history of the city and of the wars with Hannibal (59-17 B.C.).

LIVONIA (1,260), Russian Baltic province on the Gulf of Riga; is flat and marshy, and only
moderately fertile; produces rye, barley, and potatoes; its chief industries are distilling,
brewing, and iron-founding, and fishing; four-fifths of the population are Letts and Esthonians,
only 5 per cent. are Russian; the original Finnic Livonians are almost extinct; capital Riga (180).

LIVRAISON, part of a serial issued from time to time.

LLANDUDNO (6), a fashionable watering-place at the foot of Great Ormes Head, Carnarvon, frequented
by people from Yorkshire and Lancashire.

LLANELLY (32), a manufacturing seaport in Carmarthenshire for shipping coal, iron, and copper.

LLANOS, vast level plains twice the size of Great Britain in the N. of South America, in the
basin of the Orinoco, covered in great part with tall grass and stocked in the rainy season
with herds of cattle; during the dry season they are a desert.

LLORENTE, JUAN ANTONIO, Spanish historian, is the author of several works, but his celebrity
is mainly due to his "History of the Spanish Inquisition," of which in 1789 he became the secretary
(1760-1823).

LLOYD'S, a part of the Royal Exchange, London, appropriated to the use of underwriters and
for marine intelligence, frequented by those interested in merchant shipping; so called from
Lloyd's Coffee-house, formerly the head-quarters of the class.

LOAD-LINE, line painted on the outside of a vessel to mark the extreme of immersion in loading
her with a cargo.

LOADSTONE or LODESTONE, an iron ore remarkable for its magnetic quality or power of attracting
iron; it derived its name from its use as a leading stone in the compass to mariners.

LOBBY, THE, hall connected with a legislative assembly to which the public have access.

LOCAL OPTION, licence granted to the inhabitants of a district to extinguish or reduce the
sale of intoxicants in their midst.

LOCHABER, a Highland district in the S. of Inverness-shire.

LOCHABER AXE, an axe with a broad blade and a long handle formerly in use among the Highlanders
as a weapon.

LOCHIEL, a Highland chief, Sir Evan Cameron his name, head of the Cameron clan, who held out
against William III.'s rule in the Highlands, but ultimately took the oath of allegiance; d. 1719.

LOCHINVAR, hero of a ballad in Scott's "Marmion," who carries off his sweetheart just as she
is about to be sacrificed in marriage to another whom she loathes.

LOCHLEVEN, Scottish lake in Kinross-shire overshadowed by Benarty and the West Lomond, is 23
m. NW. of Edinburgh; in a castle on one of its islands Mary Stuart was imprisoned 1567-68;
it is now famous for its trout.

LOCKE, JOHN, English philosopher, the father of modern materialism and empiricism, born in
Wrington, Somerset; studied medicine, but did not practise it, and gave himself up to a literary
life, much of it spent in the family of the celebrated Earl of Shaftesbury, both at home with
it and abroad; his great work is his "Essay on the Human Understanding" in 1690, which was
preceded by "Letters on Toleration," published before the expulsion of James II., and followed
by the "Treatise on Government" the same year, and "Thoughts on Education" in 1693; his "Essay"
was written to show that all our ideas were derived from experience, that is, through the senses
and reflection on what they reveal, and that there are no innate ideas; "Locke," says Prof.
Saintsbury, "is eminently" (that is, before all his contemporaries) "of such stuff as dreams
are not made of"--is wholly a prosaic practical man and Englishman (1632-1704).

LOCKHART, JOHN GIBSON, man of letters, born in Cambusnethan; bred for the Scottish bar and
practised at it; contributed to Blackwood, wrote in collaboration with John Wilson "Peter's
Letters to his Kinsfolk"; married Sophia Scott, Sir Walter's daughter, in 1820, lived a good
deal near Abbotsford, wrote some four novels and "Spanish Ballads," became editor of the Quarterly
in 1825, and began in 1837 his "Life of Scott," a great work, and his greatest; died at Abbotsford,
health broken and in much sorrow; his "Life" has been interestingly written by Andrew Lang
(1794-1854).

LOCKOUT, the exclusion of workmen from a factory by the employer to bring them to terms which
they decline to accept.

LOCKYER, SIR JOSEPH NORMAN, astronomer, born at Rugby; became clerk in the War Office in 1857,
was secretary to the Royal Commission on Scientific Instruction in 1870, and was transferred
to the Science and Art Department in 1875; he directed Government eclipse expeditions to Sicily,
India, Egypt, and the West Indies; in 1860 he became F.R.S., received the Society's Rumford
medal in 1874, next year was appointed corresponding Member of the Institute of France and
received the Janssen medal in 1891; he was knighted in 1897; he made important discoveries
in spectrum analysis, and has written several astronomical works; b. 1836.

LOCO-FOCOS, the name, which denotes lucifer-matches, given to an ultra-democratic or radical
party in the United States because at a meeting when on one occasion the lights were extinguished
the matches which they carried were drawn and the lamps lit again.

LOCRI, a people of ancient Greece of two distinct tribes occupying different districts of the
country.

LODI (18), a town in Lombardy, 18 m. SE. of Milan, on the Adda, famous for a signal victory
of Bonaparte over the Austrians in 1796 in the face of a tremendous fire.

LOEWE, GOTTFRIED, German composer; composed oratorios, operas, and pianoforte pieces; sang
and played in London in 1847 (1796-1869).

LOFODEN ISLANDS (20), a rugged mountainous chain on the NW. Norwegian coast within the Arctic
circle, with winters rendered mild by the Gulf Stream, afford pasturage for sheep; the waters
between them and the mainland are a rich cod-fishing ground, visited by thousands of boats
between January and March.

LOGAN, JOHN, a Scotch poet, born at Soutra; was for a time minister in South Leith church,
but was obliged to resign; was the author of a lyric, "The Braes of Yarrow" and certain of
the Scotch paraphrases (1748-1788). See BRUCE, MICHAEL.

LOGARITHM, the exponent of the power to which a fixed number, called the base, must be raised
to produce a certain given number.

LOGIC, the science of correct thinking or of the laws which regulate thought, called also dialectics;
or in the Hegelian system "the scientific exposition and development of those notions or categories
which underlie all things and all being."

LOGIC SPECTACLES, Carlyle's name for eyes that can only discern the external relations of things,
but not the inner nature of them.

LOGOS, an expression in St. John's gospel translated the Word (in chap. i.) to denote the manifestation
of God, or God as manifested, defined in theology as the second person of the Deity, and viewed
as intermediary between God as Father and God as Spirit.

LOG-ROLLING, mutual praise by authors of each other's work.

LOHENGRIN, hero of a German 13th-century poem; son of Parzival, and a Knight of the Grail;
carried by a swan to Brabant he delivered and married the Princess Elsa; subsequently returning
from war against the Saracens, she asked him of his origin; he told her, and was at once carried
back again by the swan. Wagner adapted the story in his opera "Lohengrin."

LOIRE, the largest river in France, 630 m., rises in the Cévennes, flows northwards to Orleans
and westward to the Bay of Biscay, through a very fertile valley which it often inundates.
It is navigable for 550 m., but its lower waters are obstructed by islands and shoals; it is
connected by canals with the Seine, Saône, and Brest Harbour.

LOKI, in the Norse mythology, a primitive spirit of evil who mingles with the Norse gods, distinguished
for his cunning and ensnaring ways, whose devices are only evil in appearance, and are overruled
for good.

LOLLARDS, originally a religious community established at Antwerp in 1300, devoted to the care
of the sick and burial of the dead, and as persecuted by the Church, regarded as heretics.
Their name became a synonym for heretic, and was hence applied to the followers of Wycliffe
in England and certain sectaries in Ayrshire.

LOMBARD, PETER, a famous schoolman, born in Lombardy in the 12th century, of poor parents;
was a disciple of Abelard; taught theology at, and became Bishop of, Paris; was styled the
Master of Sentences, as author of a compilation of sentences from Augustine and other Church
Fathers on points of Christian doctrine, and long used as a manual in scholastic disputations.

LOMBARDS, a German people, settled at the beginning of our era about the lower Elbe. In the
5th century we find them in Moravia, and a century later established, a powerful people, between
the Adriatic and the Danube. They invaded Italy in 568, and in three years had mastered the
North, but abandoning their Arian faith they gradually became Italianised, and after the overthrow
of their dynasty by Charlemagne in 774 they became merged in the Italians. From the 13th century
Italian merchants, known as Lombards, from Lucca, Florence, Venice, and Genoa, traded under
much odium, largely in England as wool-dealers and bankers, whence the name Lombard Street.

LOMBARDY (3,982), an inland territory of Northern Italy between the Alps and the Po, Piedmont,
and Venetia. In the N. are Alpine mountains and valleys rich in pasturage; in the S. a very
fertile, well irrigated plain, which produces cereals, rice, and sub-tropical plants. The culture
of the silkworm is extensive; there are textile and hardware manufactures. The chief towns
are Milan, Pavia, and Corno. Austrian in 1713, Napoleon made it part of the kingdom of Italy
in 1805; it was restored to Austria in 1815, and finally again to Italy in 1859.

LOMOND, LOCH, an irregularly-shaped lake in Dumbarton and Stirling shires, 22 m. long and of
varying breadth; contains a number of small wooded islands; on the eastern shore rises Ben
Lomond to the height of 3192 ft.

LONDON (5,633), on the Thames, 50 m. from the sea, the capital of the British Empire, is the
most populous and wealthiest city in the world. An important place in Roman times, it was the
cap. of the East Saxons, and has been the metropolis of England since the Norman Conquest;
it possesses, therefore, innumerable historic buildings and associations. Often devastated
by plague and fire, its progress has never been stayed; its population has more than quadrupled
itself this century, and more than doubled since 1850. The City of London proper occupies one
square mile in the centre, is wholly a commercial part, and is governed by an annually elected
mayor and aldermen; is the seat of a bishopric, with St. Paul's for cathedral. The City of
Westminster is also a bishopric under a high steward and high bailiff, chosen by the dean and
chapter. These two cities, with twenty-five boroughs under local officers, constitute the metropolis,
and since 1888 the county of the city of London, and send 59 members to Parliament. Streets
in the older parts are narrow, but newer districts are well built; the level ground and density
of building detracts from the effect of innumerable magnificent edifices. Buckingham, Kensington,
and St. James's are royal residences; the Houses of Parliament are the biggest Gothic building
in the world; St. Paul's, built by Sir Christopher Wren, contains the remains of Nelson and
Wellington, Reynolds, Turner, and Wren himself. Westminster, consecrated 1269, is the burial-place
of England's greatest poets and statesmen, and of many kings; the Royal Courts of Justice in
the Strand were opened in 1882. London has a University (an examining body), 700 colleges and
endowed schools, among which Westminster, Christ's Hospital, and the Charterhouse are famous,
many medical hospitals, and schools and charitable institutions of all kinds. London is the
centre of the English literary and artistic world, and of scientific interest and research;
here are the largest publishing houses, the chief libraries and art-galleries, and museums;
the British Museum and Library, the National Galleries, &c., and magnificent botanical and
zoological gardens. London is also a grand emporium of commerce, and the banking centre of
the world. It has nine principal docks; its shipping trade is unrivalled, 55,000 vessels enter
and clear annually; it pays more than half the custom duties of the kingdom, and handles more
than a quarter of the total exports; its warehouse trade is second only to that of Manchester;
it manufactures everything, chiefly watches, jewellery, leather goods, cycles, pianos, and
glass. The control of traffic, the lighting, and water-supply of so large a city are causing
yearly more serious problems.

LONDON (30), the cap. of Middlesex county, Ontario, near the S. end of the peninsula, in the
middle of a fertile district, and a rising place.

LONDONDERRY (152), maritime county in Ulster, washed by Lough Foyle and the Atlantic, surrounded
by Donegal in the W., Tyrone in the S., and Antrim in the W., and watered by the Foyle, Roe,
and Bann Rivers, somewhat hilly towards the S., is largely under pasture; the cultivated parts
grow oats, potatoes, and flax; granted to the Corporation and Guilds of London in 1609, a large
part of the land is still owned by them. The county town, LONDONDERRY (33), manufactures linen
shirts, whisky, and iron goods, and does a considerable shipping trade. Its siege by the troops
of James II. in 1689 is memorable.

LONG, GEORGE, a distinguished classical scholar, born in Lancashire; became professor of Greek
in London University; edited several useful works, among others the "Penny Cyclopædia," on
which he spent 11 years of his life (1800-1870).

LONG ISLAND (774), a long narrow island, 115 m. long by from 12 to 24 broad, belonging to New
York State, off the shores of New York and Connecticut, from which it is separated by the East
River and Long Island Sound. It is low, much of it forest and sandy waste land, with great
lagoons in the S. The chief industry is market-gardening; fisheries and oyster-beds are valuable.
Principal towns, Brooklyn, Long Island City, and Flushing.

LONG PARLIAMENT, the celebrated English Parliament which assembled 3rd November 1640, and was
dissolved by Cromwell 20th April 1653, and which was afterwards restored, and did not finally
decease till 16th March 1660.

LONG TOM COFFIN, a character in Cooper's novel "The Pilot," and of wider celebrity than any
of the sailor class.

LONGCHAMP, a racecourse on the W. side of the Bois du Boulogne, Paris.

LONGCHAMP, WILLIAM DE, a low-born Norman favourite of Richard I., made by him bishop of Ely;
became Justiciar of England 1190, and Papal Legate 1191; clever, energetic, just, and faithful,
he yet incurred dislike by his ambition and arrogance, and was banished to Normandy; his energy
in gathering the money for Richard's ransom restored him to favour, and he became Chancellor;
d. 1197.

LONGFELLOW, HENRY WADSWORTH, American poet, born at Portland, Maine; after studying on the
Continent, became professor of Modern Languages in Harvard University; wrote "Hyperion," a
romance in prose, and a succession of poems as well as lyrics, among the former "Evangeline,"
"The Golden Legend," "Hiawatha," and "Miles Standish" (1807-1882).

LONGINUS, DIONYSIUS CASSIUS, a learned Greek philosopher, rhetorician, and critic, and eminent
in all three departments, being in philosophy a Platonist of pure blood; his fame as a teacher
reached the ears of Zenobia, the queen of Palmyra, and being invited to her court he became
her political adviser as well as the educator of her children, but on the surrender of the
place he was beheaded by order of the Emperor Aurelian as a traitor; he wrote several works,
but the only one that survives to some extent is his "Treatise on the Sublime," translated
by Boileau (210-273).

LONGMANS, famous and oldest publishing house in London; founded by Thomas Longman of Bristol
in 1726, and now in the hands of the fifth generation; has been associated with the production
of Johnson's "Dictionary," Lindley Murray's "Grammar," the works of Wordsworth, Southey, Coleridge,
and Scott, and Macaulay's "Lays," "Essays," and "History"; it absorbed the firm of Parker in
1863, and of Rivington in 1890.

LÖNNROT, ELIAS, a great Finnish scholar, born in Nyland; was professor at Helsingfors; was
editor of ancient Finnish compositions, and author of a Finnish-Swedish Dictionary (1802-1884).

LOPE DE VEGA. See VEGA.

LORD OF THE ISLES, assumed title of Donald, a chief of Islay, who in 1346 reduced the whole
of the Western Isles under his authority, and borne by his successors, and, as some allege,
his ancestors as well.

LORELEI or LURLEI, a famous steep rock, 430 ft. high, on the Rhine, near St. Goar; dangerous
to boatmen, on which it was fabled a siren sat combing her hair and singing to lure them to
ruin; the subject of an exquisite Volkslied by Heine.

LORETTO, a city in Italy, 14 m. SE. of Ancona; celebrated as the site of the SANTA CASA (q.
v.), and for the numerous pilgrims that annually resort to the holy shrine.

L'ORIENT (41), a seaport in Morbihan; contains the principal shipbuilding yard in France; was
founded by the French East India Company in 1664 in connection with their trade in the East.

LORNE, MARQUIS OF, eldest son of the Duke of Argyll; entered Parliament in 1868; married Princess
Louise, fourth daughter of Queen Victoria, in 1871; became Governor-General of Canada in 1878,
member of Parliament for South Manchester in 1895, and is Governor of Windsor Castle; b. 1845.

LORRAINE, a district in France, between Metz and the Vosges; belonged originally to Germany,
became French in 1766, and was restored to Germany in 1871.

LORRAINE, CLAUDE. See CLAUDE LORRAINE.

LOS ANGELES (11), a city in South California, 345 m. SE. of San Francisco, and founded in 1781;
is the centre of a great orange-growing district, and a health resort.

LOST TRIBES, the ten tribes of the race of Israel whom the Assyrians carried off into captivity
(see 2 Kings xvii. 6), and of whom all trace has been lost, and only in recent years guessed at.

LOTOPHAGI. See LOTUS EATERS.

LOTUS EATERS or LOTOPHAGI, an ancient people inhabiting a district of Cyrenaica, on the NE.
coast of Africa, who lived on the fruit of the lotus-tree, from which they made wine. Ulysses
and his companions in their wanderings landed on their shores, but the soothing influence of
the lotus fruit so overpowered them with languor, that they felt no inclination to leave, or
any more a desire to pursue the journey homewards. See Tennyson's poem "The Lotus-eaters."

LOTZE, RUDOLF HERMANN, German philosopher, born at Bautzen, in Saxony; professor successively
at Göttingen and Berlin; believed in metaphysics as well as physics, and was versant in both;
"Microcosmus" is his principal work, published in 1864; he founded the system of "teleological
idealism," based on ethical considerations; he repudiated agnosticism, and had as little patience
with a mere mechanical view of the universe as Carlyle (1817-1881).

LOUDON, JOHN CLAUDIUS, botanist and horticulturist, born at Cambuslang, Lanarkshire; wrote
largely on plants and their cultivation, and an "Arboretum" on trees and shrubs (1783-1843).

LOUIS I., LE DÉBONNAIRE (i. e. the Gentle), was king of France from 814 to 840 in succession
to his father Charlemagne, but was too meek and lowly to rule, and fitter for a monk than a
king; suffered himself to be taken advantage of by his nobles and the clergy; was dethroned
by his sons, and compelled to retire into a cloister, from which he was twice over brought
forth to stay the ravages of their enemies; he divided his kingdom among them during his lifetime,
and bequeathed it to them to guard over it when he was gone, to its dismemberment.

LOUIS VI., LE GROS (i. e. the Fat), was son of Philip I.; was associated in the royal power
with his father from 1098 to 1108, and sole king from 1108 till 1137; in his struggle against
the great vassals he, by the help of the clergy and the bourgeois, centralised the government
in the crown; had trouble with Henry I. of England as Lord Superior of Normandy, and was defeated
by him in battle in 1119; under his reign the burgesses achieved their independence, and though
he did nothing to initiate the movement he knew how to profit from the achievement in the interest
of the monarchy.

LOUIS VII., THE YOUNG, son of the preceding, married Eleanor of Aquitaine; took part in the
second crusade; on his return divorced his queen for her profligacy in his absence, who married
Henry II. of England, and brought with her as dowry to Henry the richest provinces of France,
which gave rise to the Hundred Years' War (1120-1180).

LOUIS VIII., THE LION, son of Philip Augustus; offered by the barons of England the crown of
England, he was crowned at London in 1216, but defeated at Lincoln next year, he was obliged
to recross the Channel; became king of France in 1223; he took several towns from the English,
and conducted a crusade against the Albigenses (1187-1226).

LOUIS IX., SAINT LOUIS, son of the preceding; was a minor at the death of his father, and the
country was governed by his mother, Blanche of Castile, with a strong hand; on attaining his
majority he found himself engaged with the English under Henry, who had been called on to assist
certain of the great barons in revolt, but in 1242 he defeated them in three engagements; under
a vow he made during a dangerous illness he became a crusader, and in 1249 landed in Egypt
with 40,000 men, but in an engagement was taken prisoner by the Saracens; released in 1250
on payment of a large ransom, though he did not return home for two years after, till on hearing
of the death of his mother, who had been regent during his absence; on his return he applied
himself to the affairs of his kingdom and the establishment of the royal power, but undertaking
a second crusade in 1270, he got as far as Tunis, where a plague broke out in the camp, and
he became one of the victims, and one of his sons before him; he was an eminently good and
pious man, and was canonised by Boniface VIII. in 1297 (1215-1270).

LOUIS XI., son of Charles VII., born at Bourges, of a cruel and treacherous nature, took part
in two insurrections against his father, by whom he had been pardoned after the first and from
whom he had to flee after the second for refuge to Burgundy, where he remained till his father's
death in 1461; he signalised the commencement of his reign by severe measures against the great
vassals, which provoked a revolt, headed by the Dukes of Burgundy and Bretagne, which he succeeded
in subduing more by his crafty policy than force of arms; involved afterwards in a war with
Charles the Bold of Burgundy and soliciting an interview, he was discovered by Charles to have
been sowing treason among his subjects, taken prisoner, and only released on a solemn protestation
of innocence; notwithstanding the sinister and often cruel character of his policy, he did
much to develop the resources of the country and advance the cause of good government by the
patronage of learning; the crimes he had committed weighed heavily on his mind towards the
end of his days, and he died in great fear of death and the judgment (1423-1483).

LOUIS XIII., the son of Henry IV.; being only nine years old at the death of his father, the
government was conducted by Marie de' Medicis, his mother, and at his accession the country
was a prey to civil dissensions, which increased on the young king's marriage with a Spanish
princess; the Huguenots rose in arms, but a peace was concluded in 1623; it was now Richelieu
came to the front and assumed the reins with his threefold policy of taming the nobles, checkmating
the Huguenots, and humbling the house of Austria; Rochelle, the head-quarters of the Huguenots,
revolted, the English assisting them, but by the strategy adopted the city was taken and the
English driven to sea; henceforth the king was nobody and the cardinal was king; the cardinal
died in 1642 and the king the year after, leaving two sons, Louis, who succeeded him, and Philip,
Duke of Orleans and the first of his line (1601-1644).

LOUIS XIV., the "Grand Monarque," son of the preceding, was only nine when his father died,
and the government was in the hands of his mother, Anne of Austria, and Cardinal Mazarin, her
minister; under the regency the glory of France was maintained in the field, but her internal
peace was disturbed by the insubordination of the parlement and the troubles of the Fronde;
by a compact on the part of Mazarin with Spain before he died Louis was married to the Infanta
Maria Theresa in 1659, and in 1660 he announced his intention to rule the kingdom alone, which
he did for 54 years with a decision and energy no one gave him credit for, in fulfilment of
his famous protestation L'état, c'est moi, choosing Colbert to control finance, Louvois to
reorganise the army, and Vauban to fortify the frontier towns; he sought to be as absolute
in his foreign relations as in his internal administration, and hence the long succession of
wars which, while they brought glory to France, ended in exhausting her; at home he suffered
no one in religious matters to think otherwise than himself; he revoked the Edict of Nantes,
sanctioned the dragonnades in the Cévennes, and to extirpate heresy encouraged every form of
cruelty; yet when we look at the men who adorned it, the reign of Louis XIV. was one of the
most illustrious in letters and the arts in the history of France: Corneille, Racine, and Molière
eminent in the drama, La Fontaine and Boileau in poetry, Bossuet in oratory, Bruyère and Rochefoucauld
in morals, Pascal in philosophy, Saint-Simon and Retz in history, and Poussin, Lorraine, Lebrun,
Perault, &c., in art (1636-1715).

LOUIS XV., Bien-Aimé (i. e. Well-Beloved), great-grandson of the preceding, and only five at
his death, the country during his minority being under the regency of Philip, Duke of Orleans;
the regency was rendered disastrous by the failure of the Mississippi Scheme of Law and a war
with Spain, caused by the rejection of a Spanish princess for Louis, and by his marriage to
Maria Lesczynski, the daughter of Stanislas of Poland; Louis was crowned king in 1722 and declared
of age the following year; in 1726 Cardinal Fleury, who had been his tutor, became his minister,
and under him occurred the war of the succession to Poland, concluded by the treaty of Vienna,
and the war of the Austrian succession, concluded by the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle; with the
death of his minister Louis gave way to his licentious propensities, and in all matters of
state allowed himself to be swayed by unworthy favourites who pandered to his lusts, the most
conspicuous among them being Madame de Pompadour and Dame de Barry, her successor in crime;
under them, and the corrupt court they presided over, the country went step by step to ruin,
and she was powerless to withstand the military ascendency of England, which deprived her of
all her colonies both in the East and in the West; though Choiseul, his last "substantial"
minister, tried hard by a family compact of the Bourbons to collect her scattered strength;
the situation did not trouble Louis; "it will last all my time," he said, and he let things
go; suffering from a disease contracted by vice, he was seized with confluent smallpox, and
died in misery, to the relief of the nation, which could not restrain its joy (1710-1774).

LOUIS XVI., the grandson of the preceding and his successor; had in 1770 married Marie Antoinette,
the youngest daughter of Maria Theresa of Austria, and a woman young, beautiful, and accomplished,
in high esteem for the purity of her character; his accession was hailed with enthusiasm, and
he set himself to restore the ruined finances of the country by taking into his counsel those
who could best advise him in her straitened state, but these one and all found the problem
an impossible one, owing to the unwillingness of the nobility to sacrifice any of their privileges
for the public good; this led to the summoning of the States-General in 1789, and the outbreak
of the Revolution by the fall of the Bastille in July of that year; in the midst of this Louis,
well-intentioned but without strength of character, was submissive to the wishes of his court
and the queen, lost his popularity by his hesitating conduct, the secret support he gave to
the EMIGRANTS (q. v.), his attempt at flight, and by his negotiations with foreign enemies,
and subjected himself to persecution at the hands of the nation; he was therefore suspended
from his functions, shut up in the Temple, arraigned before the Convention, and condemned to
death as "guilty of conspiracy against the liberty of the nation and a crime against the general
safety of the State"; he was accordingly guillotined on the 21st January; he protested his
innocence on the scaffold, but his voice was drowned by the beating of drums; he was accompanied
by the Abbé Edgeworth, his confessor, who, as he laid his head on the block, exclaimed, "Son
of St. Louis, ascend to heaven" (1754-1793).

LOUIS XVII., second son of the preceding, shut up in the Temple, was, after the execution of
his mother, proclaimed king by the Emigrants, and handed over in his prison to the care of
one Simon, a shoemaker, in service about the prison, to bring him up in the principles of Sansculottism;
Simon taught him to drink, dance, and sing the carmagnole; he died in prison "amid squalor
and darkness," his shirt not changed for six months (1785-1796).

LOUIS XVIII., brother of Louis XVI., and called Monsieur during his brother's reign, flew from
Paris and joined the Emigrants along with his brother, Count d'Artois, and took up arms, which
he was compelled to forego, to wander from one foreign Court to another and find refuge at
last in England; on Napoleon's departure for Elba he returned to France and was installed on
the throne as Louis le Desiré, but by the reappearance of the former on the scene he was obliged
to seek refuge in Belgium, to return for good after the battle of Waterloo, July 9, 1815, with
Talleyrand for minister and Fouché as minister of police; he reigned but a few years, his constitution
being much enfeebled by a disease (1755-1824).

LOUIS NAPOLEON (Napoleon III.), nephew of the first emperor, born at Paris, brought up at Augsburg
and in Switzerland; became head of the family in 1832; he began a Bonapartist propaganda, and
set himself to recover the throne of France; an abortive attempt in 1836 ended in a short exile
in America and London, and a second at Boulogne in 1840 landed him in the fortress of Ham under
sentence of perpetual imprisonment; escaping in 1846 he spent two years in England, returning
to France after the Revolution of 1848; elected to the Constituent Assembly and the same year
to the Presidency he assumed the headship of the Republic, and posed as the protector of popular
liberties and national prosperity; struggles with the Assembly followed; he won the favour
of the army, filled the most important posts with his friends, dissolved the Constitution in
1851 (Dec. 2), was immediately re-elected President for ten years, and a year later assumed
the title of Emperor; he married the Spanish Countess Eugénie in 1853, and exerted himself
by public works, exhibitions, courting of the clergy, gagging of the press, and so on to strengthen
his hold on the populace; in the Crimean War (1854-56) and the Lombardy campaign (1859) he
was supported by Britain; in 1860 he annexed Savoy and Nice; ten years later suspecting the
enthusiasm of the army, he plunged into war with Germany to rekindle its ardour, on a protest
arising from the scheme to put Leopold of Hohenzollern on the Spanish throne; France was unprepared,
disaster followed disaster; the Emperor surrendered to the Germans at Sedan, Sept. 2, 1870;
a prisoner till the close of the war, he came to England in 1871 and resided with the Empress
at Chislehurst till his death (1808-1873).

LOUIS PHILIPPE, king of the French from 1830 till 1848, born at Paris, eldest son of the Duke
of Orleans, renounced his titles along with his father, and joined the National Guard and the
Jacobins at the Revolution as M. Egalité; after the defeat of Neerwinden 1793, where he commanded
the centre, he fled to Austria and Switzerland and supported himself by teaching; after three
years in the United States he came to London in 1800, and on the fall of Napoleon repaired
to Paris and recovered his estates; he gained popularity with the bourgeoisie, and when the
Revolution of July 1830 overthrew Charles X. he succeeded to the throne as the elected sovereign
of the people; under the "citizen king" France prospered; but his government gradually became
reactionary and violent; he used his great wealth in giving bribes, tampered with trial by
jury and the freedom of the press, and so raised against him both the old aristocracy and the
working-classes; political agitation culminated in the Revolution of February 1848; he was
forced to abdicate and escaped with his queen to England, where he died (1773-1850).

LOUIS-D'OR, an old French gold coin which ranged in value from 16s. 7d. to 18s. 9¾d., and ceased
to be issued in 1795.

LOUISIANA (1,119), an American State on the Gulf of Mexico, between the Mississippi and Sabine
Rivers, with Arkansas on the N. and traversed diagonally by the Red River, is half upland and
half alluvial; much of the lower level in the S. is marshy, subject to tidal flow or river
inundation, and is covered by swampy woods, but is being reclaimed and planted with rice; on
the uplands cattle are grazed, there are pine and oak forests, while the arable land is under
cotton, sugar, oranges, and figs; the principal manufactures are shingles and tanks, cotton-seed
oil, tobacco, and clothing; there is a State University and agricultural and mechanical college
at Baton Rouge; the Southern and Tulane Universities are in New Orleans; free schools are throughout
the State. Founded by France, but held by Spain from 1762 till 1800, ceded again to France
and sold to the United States by Napoleon, it was admitted to the Union in 1812. In the Civil
War a hundred battles were fought within the State and New Orleans was captured, which left
ruin behind; but since 1880 prosperity has returned, property is increasing fast, and finances
are healthy.

LOUISVILLE (205), on the left bank of the Ohio River, the largest city in Kentucky, is well
built and regular, with a Roman Catholic cathedral, many colleges and charitable institutions;
it is the largest tobacco market in the world, has pork packing, distilling, tanning, and many
other industries.

LOURDES, a French town in the dep. of the Hautes-Pyrénées, with a grotto near by in which the
Virgin Mary, as is alleged, appeared to a girl of the place in 1858, and to which multitudes
have since resorted in the hope of being healed of their maladies from the waters which spring
up on the spot.

LOUTH (71), the smallest Irish county, in Leinster, stretches from Carlingford Bay to the estuary
of the Boyne, washed by the Irish Sea; the country is flat and the soil fertile, potatoes,
oats, and barley are grown; there are coarse linen manufactures and oyster fisheries; rich
in antiquities, its chief towns are Dundalk (12), Drogheda (12), and Ardee (2).

LOUVET, French romancer, born in Paris; author of the "Chevalier de Faublas," which gives a
picture of French society on the eve of the Revolution, in which the author played a part (1760-1797).

LOUVOIS, MARQUIS OF, War Minister of Louis XIV., born in Paris; was a man of great administrative
ability in his department, but for the glory of France and his own was savage for war and relentless
in the conduct of it, till one day in his obstinate zeal, as he threatened to lay the cathedral
city of Trèves in ashes, the king, seizing the tongs from the chimney, was about to strike
him therewith, and would have struck him, had not Madame de Maintenon, his mistress, interfered
and stayed his hand; he died suddenly, to the manifest relief of his royal master (1641-1691).

LOUVRE, an open turret or lantern on ancient roofs for the escape of smoke or foul air.

LOUVRE, a great art museum and gallery in Paris, containing Egyptian, Assyrian, classic, mediæval,
and modern relics and art treasures of priceless value; here is housed the Venus of Milo.

LOVAT, SIMON FRASER, LORD, a Highland chief connected with Inverness, who, being outlawed,
fled to France and got acquainted with the Pretender, in whose interest he returned to Scotland
to excite a rising, but betraying the secret to the government was imprisoned in the Bastille
on his going back to France; on his release and return he opposed the Pretender in 1715, but
in 1745 espoused the cause of Prince Edward; was arrested for treason, convicted, and beheaded
on Tower Hill (1667-1747).

LOVEDALE, a mission station in South Africa, 650 m. NE. of Cape Town, founded in 1841, and
supported by the Free Church of Scotland.

LOVELACE, one of the principal characters in Richardson's "Clarissa Harlowe"; is the type of
a young heartless seducer.

LOVELACE, RICHARD, English cavalier and poet, born at Woolwich, heir of great wealth, but lost
his all in supporting the royal cause, and died a ruined man; was the handsomest man of his
time, and the author of a collection of poems entitled "Lucasta" (1618-1658).

LOVER, SAMUEL, an Irish novelist and poet, born in Dublin; started as a painter, but soon gave
himself to literature; was the author of "Rory O'More" and "Handy Andy," as also of some lyrics
and ballads of a stirring character (1797-1868).

LOW CHURCH, that section of the Church of England which, in contrast with the High Church party,
is not exclusive in its assertion of Church authority and observances, and in contrast with
the Broad Church party is narrowly evangelical in its teaching.

LOW LATIN, Latin as spoken and written in the Middle Ages, being a degeneration of the classical
which began as early as the time of Cicero and developed unchecked with the dismemberment of
the Roman empire.

LOW MASS, mass performed by a single priest and without musical accompaniment.

LOW SUNDAY, name given in Catholic countries to the next Sunday after Easter, in contrast with
the style of the festival just closed.

LOWE, SIR HUDSON, English general, born in Ireland; served with credit in various military
enterprises, and was appointed governor of St. Helena in 1815, and held that office during
Napoleon's incarceration there; a much abused-man for his treatment of his prisoner, particularly
by the French, who dub him "Napoleon's jailer"; died in London in poor circumstances; wrote
a defence of his conduct (1770-1844).

LOWELL, JAMES RUSSELL, American essayist, poet, and diplomatist, born in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
son of a clergyman; graduated at Harvard in 1838, studied law, but acquiring extensive scholarship
devoted himself to literature; volumes of poems were published by him in 1840 and 1844, but
the Mexican War of 1846 and the Civil War of 1861-65 called forth respectively the first and
second series of "Biglow Papers," in rustic dialect, the highest expression of his genius and
the finest modern English satire; he was an ardent abolitionist; succeeding Longfellow in the
chair of Modern Languages and Literature in Harvard in 1855, he visited Europe to study, returned
as U.S. minister to Spain in 1877, was transferred to England 1880-1885; of his prose work
"My Study Windows" and "Among my Books" are essays on literary subjects, "Fireside Travels"
contain reminiscences, and his last work was a "Life of Hawthorne"; he died at Cambridge in
the house of his birth (1818-1891).

LOWER EMPIRE, name given to the Byzantine empire.

LOWESTOFT (23), seaport and watering-place at the mouth of the Waveney, in Suffolk, 120 m.
NE. of London, the most easterly town in England; has a good harbour, an old parish church,
and a large fish-market; the Dutch were defeated off Lowestoft in 1665.

LOWTH, ROBERT, a distinguished English prelate, born in Hants; was professor of Poetry in Oxford,
and bishop in succession of St. Davids, Oxford, and London; wrote "Prelectiones" on the poetry
of the Hebrews, a celebrated work, and executed a translation of Isaiah (1710-1787).

LOYOLA, IGNATIUS, the founder of the Order of the Jesuits, born in the castle of Loyola, in
the Basque Provinces of Spain, of a noble Spanish family; entered the army, and served with
distinction, but being severely wounded at the siege of Pampeluna, he gave himself up to a
life of austere religious devotion, and conceived the idea of enlisting and organising a spiritual
army for the defence of the Church at home and the propagation of the faith in the realms of
heathendom; it seemed to him a time when such an organisation should be formed, and he by-and-by
got a number of kindred spirits to join him, with the result that he and his confederates did,
on Ascension Day, 1534, solemnly pledge themselves in the subterranean chapel of the Abbey
of Montserrat to, through life and death, embark in this great undertaking; the pledge thus
given was confirmed by the pope, Pope Pius III., the Order formed, and Ignatius, in 1547, installed
as general, with absolute authority subject only to the Pope, to receive canonisation by Gregory
XV. in 1622 (1481-1566).

LUBBOCK, SIR JOHN, scientist, born in London; banker by profession; as a member of Parliament
has accomplished several economic reforms; is author of "Prehistoric Times," "The Origin of
Civilisation and the Primitive Condition of Man," and various books on natural science; his
"Pleasures of Life" has been very popular, and gone through between 30 and 40 editions; b. 1834.

LÜBECK (64), a German free city on the Trave, an old-fashioned place, but with wide, open streets,
12 m. from the Baltic, 40 m. NE. of Hamburg; joined the North German Federation in 1866, and
the Customs Union in 1868. It has a 12th-century cathedral, some fine old churches, scientific
and art collections; with unimportant industries; its Baltic and German transit trade is extensive.

LUCAN, a Latin poet, born at Corduba (Cordova), in Spain; was a nephew of Seneca, and brought
early to Rome; gave offence to Nero, and was banished from the city; joined in a conspiracy
against the tyrant, and was convicted, whereupon he caused his veins to be opened and bled
to death, repeating the while the speech he had composed of a wounded soldier on the battlefield
dying a like death; he was the author of a poem entitled "Pharsalia" on the civil war between
Cæsar and Pompey (39-65).

LUCARIS, CYRIL, eminent ecclesiastic in the Greek Church, born in Crete, who embraced and propagated
Protestantism; became a victim of persecution, and had a mysterious fate (1572-1637).

LUCCA (20), cap. of the Italian prov. of Lucca (309), on the Serchio, 12 m. NE. of Pisa; has
an extensive trade in olive-oil, silk, and capers, the specialty of the province. Its cathedral
has a very ancient cedar crucifix, fine paintings, and valuable archives. There are other ancient
churches, scientific and artistic institutes, and a wonderful aqueduct of 459 arches. The natives
are known over Europe as stucco figure-sellers and organ-grinders.

LUCERNE (36), a Swiss canton E. of Berne, mountainous in the S., where cattle are pastured
and much cheese made; in the N. and in the valleys fertile with corn and fruit crops; is German
speaking, and Roman Catholic; its highest elevation, Mount Pilatus, is 7000 ft. Stretching
from the eastern corner is Lake Lucerne, one of the most beautiful in Europe. The cap. Lucerne
(20), on the shores of the lake, is a busy tourist centre; outside its walls is the famous
Lion of Lucerne, designed by Thorwaldsen, in memory of the Swiss Guard slain while defending
the Tuileries in Paris in 1792, and cut out of the solid rock.

LUCIAN, a Greek writer, born in Samosata, in Syria, in the early part of the 2nd century; he
travelled much in his youth; acquired a cynical view of the world, and gave himself to ridicule
the philosophical sects and the pagan mythology; his principal writings consist of "Dialogues,"
of which the "Dialogues of the Dead" are the best known, the subject being one affording him
scope for exposing the vanity of human pursuits; he was an out and out sceptic, found nothing
worthy of reverence in heaven or on earth.

LUCIFER (i. e. light-bringer), name given to Venus as the morning star, and by the Church Fathers
to Satan in interpretation of Isaiah xiv. 12.

LÜCKE, FRIEDRICH, German theologian, professor first at Bonn and then at Göttingen; wrote commentaries
on John's Gospel and the Apocalypse (1791-1855).

LUCKNOW (273), fourth city in India, cap. of the prov. of Oudh, on the Gumti, a tributary of
the Ganges, 200 m. NW. of Benares; is a centre of Indian culture and Mohammedan theology, an
industrial and commercial city. It has many magnificent buildings, Canning and Martinière Colleges,
various schools and Government offices. It manufactures brocades, shawls, muslins, and embroideries,
and trades in country products, European cloth, salt, and leather. Its siege from July 1857
to March 1858, its relief by Havelock and Outram, and final deliverance by Sir Colin Campbell,
form the most stirring incidents of the Indian Mutiny.

LUCRETIA, a Roman matron, the wife of Collatinus, whose rape by a son of Tarquinus Superbus
led to the dethronement of the tyrant, the expulsion of his family from Rome, and the establishment
of the Roman republic.

LUCRETIUS, TITUS CARUS, a Roman poet of whose personal history nothing is known, only that
he was the author of a poem entitled "De Rerum Naturâ," a philosophic, didactic composition
in six books, in which he expounds the atomic theory of Leucippus, and the philosophy of Epicurus;
the philosophy of the work commends itself only to the atheist and the materialist, but the
style is the admiration of all scholars, and has ensured its translation into most modern languages
(about 95-31 B.C.).

LUCULLUS, LUCIUS, a Roman general, celebrated as conqueror of Mithridates, king of Pontus,
and for the luxurious life he afterwards led at Rome on the wealth he had amassed in Asia and
brought home with him; one day as he sat down to dine alone, and he observed his servant had
provided for him a less sumptuous repast than usual, he took him sharply to task, and haughtily
remarked, "Are you not aware, sirrah, that Lucullus dines with Lucullus to-day?"

LUDDISM, fanatical opposition to the introduction of machinery as it originally manifested
itself among the hand-loom weavers of the Midlands.

LUDDITES name assumed by the anti-machinery rioters of 1812-1861, after a Leicestershire idiot,
Ned Ludd, of 1780; appearing first at Nottingham, the agitation spread through Derby, Leicester,
Cheshire, Lancashire, and Yorkshire, finally merging in the wider industrial and political
agitations and riots that marked the years that followed the peace after Waterloo.

LUDLOW, EDMUND, a republican leader in the Civil War against Charles I., born in Wiltshire
of good family; entered the army of the Parliament, and was present in successive engagements,
but opposed Cromwell on his assumption of the Protectorate, and was put under arrest; reasserted
his republicanism on Cromwell's death, but died in exile after the Restoration; left "Memoirs"
(1630-1693).

LUDOVICUS VIVES, a humourist, born in Valentia, Spain; studied at Paris, wrote against scholasticism,
taught at Oxford, was imprisoned for opposing Henry VIII.'s divorce; died at Bruges (1472-1540).

LUGA`NO, a lake partly in the Swiss canton of Ticino and partly in the Italian province of
Como, 15 m. by 2 m., in the midst of picturesque grand scenery, with a town of the name on
the NW. side amid vineyards and olive plantations.

LUINI, BERNARDINO, a painter of the Lombard school, born at Luino, in the territory of Milan,
and a pupil of Leonardo da Vinci, so that some of his works, which though they show a grace
and delicacy of their own, pass for those of his master; is famed for his works in oil as well
as in fresco; is, in Ruskin's regard, one of the master painters of the world (1460-1540).

LUKE or LUCANUS, author of the third Gospel, as well as the Acts, born in Antioch, a Greek
by birth and a physician by profession, probably a convert, as he was a companion, of St. Paul;
is said to have suffered martyrdom and been buried at Constantinople; is the patron saint of
artists, and represented in Christian art with an ox lying near him, or in the act of painting;
his Gospel appears to have been written before the year 63, and shows a Pauline interest in
Christ, who is represented as the Saviour of Jew and Gentile alike; it was written for a Gentile
Christian and in correspondence with eye-witnesses of Christ's life and death.

LULLI, a composer of operatic music, born in Provence; was director of the French opera in
the reign of Louis XIV. (1633-1687).

LULLY, RAYMOND, the Doctor Illuminatus, as he was called, born at Palma, in Majorca, who was
early smitten with a zeal for the conversion of the Mohammedans, in the prosecution of which
mission he invented a new method of dialectic, called after him Ars Lullia; held public discussions
with the Mohammedans, who showed themselves as zealous to convert him as he was to convert
them, till he ventured in his over-zeal when in Africa among them to threaten them with divine
judgment if they did not abjure their faith, upon which they waxed furious, dragged him out
of the city, and stoned him to death in the year 1315; his works, several on alchemy, fill
16 volumes.

LUNAR CYCLE, a period of time at the close of which the new moons return on the same days of
the year.

LUNAR MONTH, a month of 29 days, the time of the revolution of the moon, a lunar year consisting
of 12 times the number.

LUNAR THEORY, an explanation by mathematical reasoning of perturbations in the movements of
the moon founded on the law of gravitation.

LUNAR YEAR, a period of 12 synodic lunar months, being about 354.5 days.

LUND (14), a city in the S. of Sweden, 10 m. NE. of Malmö, once the capital of the Danish kingdom,
the seat of an archbishop, with a Romanesque cathedral and a flourishing university.

LUNDY ISLAND, a precipitous rugged island 3 m. long by 1 m. broad, belonging to Devon, with
the remains of an old castle, and frequented by myriads of sea-fowl.

LÜNEBURG (21), on the Ilmenau, 30 m. SE. of Hamburg, an ancient German city with old Gothic
churches, once the capital of an independent duchy, now in Hanover; has salt and gypsum mines,
iron and chemical manufactures; the British royal house is descended from the princes of Brunswick-Lüneburg.

LUPERCALIA, a Roman festival held on Feb. 15 in honour of Lupercus, regarded as the god of
fertility, in the celebration of which dogs and goats were sacrificed and their skins cut up
into thongs, with which the priests ran through the city striking every one, particularly women,
that threw themselves in their way.

LUPERCUS, an ancient Italian god, worshipped by shepherds as the protector of their flocks
against wolves.

LUPUS, a chronic disease of the skin, characterised by the tuberculous eruptions which eat
into the skin, particularly of the face, and disfigure it.

LUSATIA, a district of Germany, between the Elbe and the Oder, originally divided into Upper
and Lower, belongs partly to Saxony and partly to Prussia; it swarmed at one time with Wends.

LUSIAD or LUSIADES, a poem of Camoëns in ten cantos, in celebration of the discoveries of the
Portuguese in the East Indies, and in which Vasco da Gama is the principal figure; it is a
genuine national epic, in which the poet passes in review all the celebrated exploits and feats
that glorify the history of Portugal.

LUSITANIA, the ancient name of Portugal, still used as the name of it in modern poetry.

LUSTRUM, a sacrifice for expiation and purification offered by one of the censors of Rome in
name of the Roman people at the close of the taking of the census, and which took place after
a period of five years, so that the name came to denote a period of that length.

LUTETIA, the ancient name of Paris, Lutetia Parisiorum, mud-town of the borderers, as Carlyle
translates it. (1488-1546).

LUTHERANISM, that form of Protestantism which prevails in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Northern
Germany. See LUTHERANS.

LUTHERANS, the name given to that school of the Protestant Church which accepted Luther's doctrine,
especially that of the Eucharist, in opposition to that of the members of the Reformed Church,
who assented to the views in that matter of Zwingli, the Swiss Reformer; the former maintaining
the presence of Christ in the Eucharist, and that the grace of Christ is communicated in the
celebration of it, and the latter maintaining that it is a merely commemorative ordinance,
and the means of grace to the believing recipient only.

LUTTERWORTH, a small town in Leicestershire, on the Swift, 8 m. NE. of Rugby, of the church
of which Wiclif was rector, and where he was buried, though his bones were afterwards, in 1428,
dug up and burned, and the ashes cast into the river.

LÜTZEN, a small town in Prussian Saxony, the vicinity of it the scene of a victory of Gustavus
Adolphus in 1632, and of another by Napoleon over the combined forces of Russia and Prussia
in 1813.

LUX, the name given to the unit of the intensity of electric light.

LUX, ADAM, a young Parisian; smitten with love for Charlotte Corday, proposed a statue to her
with the inscription "Greater than Brutus," which brought him to the guillotine.

LUXEMBURG (211), grand-duchy, a small, independent territory at the corner where Belgium, France,
and Rhenish Prussia meet, is a plateau watered by the Moselle on its eastern boundary, and
the tributary Sauer; is well wooded and fertile, yielding wheat, flax, hemp, and wine. Iron
ore is mined and smelted; leather, pottery, sugar, and spirits manufactured. The population
is Low-German and Roman Catholic; the language of the educated, French. The government is in
the hands of a grand-duke, the Duke of Nassau, and a house of 42 representatives. For commercial
purposes Luxemburg belongs to the German Customs Union. The capital is LUXEMBURG (18). There
is a Belgian province of LUXEMBURG (212), until 1839 part of the grand-duchy.

LUZON (3,200), the largest of the Philippines; about one-half larger than Ireland; is the most
northerly of the group; is clad with forests, and yields grain, sugar, hemp, and numerous tropical
products. The capital is Manila.

LYCAON, a king of Arcadia; changed into a wolf for offering human flesh to Zeus, who came,
disguised as mortal, to his palace on the same errand as the angels who visited Lot in Sodom.
According to another tradition he was consumed, along with his sons, by fire from heaven.

LYCEUM, a promenade in Athens where Aristotle taught his pupils as he walked to and fro within
its precincts.

LYCIAS, an Athenian orator, who flourished in the 4th century B.C.; assisted in the expulsion
of the Thirty Tyrants, and distributed among the citizens his large fortune which the Tyrants
had confiscated.

LYCIDAS, the name of an exquisite dirge by Milton over the death by drowning of his friend
Edward King.

LYCURGUS, the legislator of Sparta, who lived in the 9th century B.C.; in the interest of it
as king visited the wise in other lands, and returned with the wise lessons he had learned
from them to frame a code of laws for his country, which was fast lapsing into a state of anarchy;
when he had finished his work under the sanction of the oracle at Delphi he set put again on
a journey to other lands, but previously took oath of the citizens that they would observe
his laws till his return; it was his purpose not to return, and he never did, in order to bind
his countrymen to maintain the constitution he gave them inviolate for ever.

LYDGATE, JOHN, an early English poet; was a monk of Bury St. Edmunds in the end of the 14th
and beginning of the 15th centuries; was a teacher of rhetoric as well as a poet, and a man
of some note in his day.

LYDIA, a country of Asia Minor; seat of an early civilisation, and a centre of influences which
affected both the religion and culture of Greece; was noted for its music and purple dyes.

LYELL, SIR CHARLES, celebrated English geologist, born at Kinnordy, in Forfarshire; bred for
and called to the bar; he left his practice, and gave himself to the study of geology, to which
he had been attracted by Alexander Buckland's lectures when he was at Oxford; his great work
was his "Principles of Geology," which, published in 1830, created quite a revolution in the
science; it was followed by his "Student's Elements of Geology," which was modified by his
conversion to Darwin's views, and by "Antiquity of Man," written in defence of Darwin's theory
(17971875).

LYLY, JOHN, English dramatist, born in Kent; was the author of nine plays on classical subjects,
written for the court, which were preceded in 1579 by his once famous "Euphues, or Anatomy
of Wit," followed by a second part next year, and entitled "Euphues and his England," and that
from the fantastic, pompous, and affected style in which they were written gave a new word,
Euphuism, to the English language (1553-1606).

LYNCH LAW, the name given in America to the trial and punishment of offenders without form
of law, or by mob law; derived from the name of a man Lynch, dubbed Judge, who being referred
to used to administer justice in the far West in this informal way.

LYNDHURST, JOHN SINGLETON COPLEY, BARON, thrice Lord Chancellor of England, born at Boston,
Massachusetts, son of an artist; was brought up in London, educated at Cambridge, and called
to the bar in 1804; acquiring fame in the treason trials of the second decade, he entered Parliament
in 1808, was Solicitor-General 1819, Attorney-General 1819, Master of the Rolls 1826, and Lord
Chancellor in three governments 1827-30; Chief Baron of the Exchequer 1830-34; he was Lord
Chancellor in Peel's administrations of 1834-35 and 1841-46; he was great as a debater, and
a clear-headed lawyer, but not earnest enough for a statesman (1772-1863).

LYNEDOCH, THOMAS GRAHAM, LORD, soldier, born in Perthshire; raised in 1793 the 90th Regiment
of Foot, and served with it at Quibéron and Isle Dieu; thereafter distinguished himself in
various ways at Minorca 1798, and Malta 1800, in the Peninsular wars, and in Holland; founded
the Senior United Service Club in 1817; was created baron and general 1821, and died in London
(1748-1843).

LYON COURT, the Herald's College of Scotland, consisting of three heralds and three pursuivants.

LYON KING OF ARMS, the legal heraldic officer of Scotland, who presides over the Lyon Court.

LYONS (398), the second city of France, at the junction of the Rhône and Saône, 250 m. S. of
Paris; has a Roman Catholic university, and valuable museum, library, and art collections,
many old churches and buildings, and schools of art and industries; the staple industry is
silk, weaving, dyeing, and printing; there are also chemical, machinery, and fancy ware manufactures,
and it is an emporium of commerce between Central and Southern Europe; of late years Lyons
has been a hot-bed of ultra-republicanism.

LYRIC POETRY, poetry originally accompanied by the lyre, in which the poet sings his own passions,
sure of a sympathetic response from others in like circumstances with himself.

LYSANDER, a Spartan general and admiral who put an end to the Peloponnesian War by defeat of
the Athenian fleet off Ægospotami, and of whom Plutarch says in characterisation of him, he
knew how to sew the skin of the fox on that of the lion; fell in battle in 395 B.C.

LYSIMACHUS, one of the generals of Alexander the Great, who became king of Thrace and afterwards
of Macedonia; d. 281 B.C.

LYTTON, EDWARD ROBERT, EARL OF, statesman and novelist, under the nom de plume of Owen Meredith;
entered the diplomatic service at an early age, became viceroy of India in 1876, and ambassador
at Paris in 1892.

LYTTON, GEORGE EDWARD BULWER, LORD, statesman and novelist, born in London; entered Parliament
at the age of 26, began his parliamentary career as a Whig, but became a Conservative and ranked
in that party for the greater part of his life; "Pelham," published in 1828, was his first
novel, and this was followed by a long list of others of endless variety, all indicative of
the conspicuous ability of the author, and to the last giving no sign of decay in power; he
was the author of plays as well as novels (1803-1873).

M

MAB, QUEEN, the fairies' midwife that brings dreams to the birth, to be distinguished from
Titania, the Queen.

MABILLON, JEAN, a French Benedictine and eminent scholar; wrote a history of his order and
edited St. Bernard's works (1632-1707).

MABLY, GABRIEL BONNET DE, French author, was born at Grenoble, brother of Condillac; educated
at Lyons, and became secretary to Cardinal Tencin, but most of his life was spent in study,
and he died in Paris; his "Romans and the French" is not complimentary to his countrymen; he
was a great admirer of the ancients (1709-1785).

MABUSA, JAN, real name Gossaert, Flemish artist, born at Mabuse, lived and died at Antwerp;
his work is not great but careful, his figures catch the stiffness of his favourite architectural
backgrounds; his early period is strongly national, but a visit to Italy with Philip of Burgundy
brought him under southern influences and contributed to intensify his colour (1470-1532).

MACADAM, JOHN LOUDON, Scottish engineer, born at Ayr; inventor of the system of road-making
which bears his name; he made his fortune as a merchant in New York, but spent it in road-making
(1756-1836).

MACAIRE, ROBERT, a noted criminal and assassin that figures in French plays; was convicted
of a murder in trial by combat with a witness in the shape of the dog of the murdered man.

MACAO, small island at the mouth of the Canton River, 100 m. S. of Canton, forming with Colovane
and Taipa since 1557 a Portuguese station (50, mostly Chinese); is a very healthy port, though
very hot; formerly it was a centre of the Coolie trade, abolished in 1873, but its anchorage
is bad, and since the rise of Hong-Kong its commerce has suffered severely; chief import opium,
export tea; it is the head-quarters of French missions in China.

MACARIUS, ST., a hermit of the Thebaïd, where he spent 60 years of a life of solitude and austerity
(300-390). Festival, January 13.

MACARONI, a fine wheaten paste made into long thin tubes, and manufactured in Italy and the
S. of France.

MACASSAR, southern portion and chief town (20) at SW. corner of Celebes; exports coffee, spices,
timber, and "Macassar" oil.

MACAULAY, THOMAS BABINGTON, LORD, essayist and historian, born at Rothley Temple, Leicestershire,
son of Zachary Macaulay the philanthropist, and so of Scottish descent; graduated at Cambridge
1822, proving a brilliant debater in the Union, and became Fellow of Trinity 1824; called to
the bar 1826, he preferred to follow literature, having already gained a footing by some poems
in Knight's Quarterly and by his essay on "Milton" in the Edinburgh Review (1825); in 1830
he entered Parliament for a pocket-borough, took an honourable part in the Reform debates,
and in the new Parliament sat for Leeds; his family were now in straitened circumstances, and
to be able to help them he went out to India as legal adviser to the Supreme Council; to his
credit chiefly belongs the Indian Penal Code; returning in 1838, he represented Edinburgh in
the Commons with five years' interval till 1856; the "Lays of Ancient Rome" appeared in 1842,
his collected "Essays" in 1843, two years later he ceased writing for the Edinburgh; he was
now working hard at his "History," of which the first two volumes attained a quite unprecedented
success in 1848; next year he was chosen Lord Rector of Glasgow University; 1855 saw the third
and fourth volumes of his "History"; in 1857 he was made a peer, and many other honours were
showered upon him; with a tendency to too much declamation in style, a point of view not free
from bias, and a lack of depth and modesty in his thinking, he yet attained a remarkable amount
and variety of knowledge, great intellectual energy, and unrivalled lucidity in narration (1800-1859).

MACBETH, a thane of the north of Scotland who, by assassination of King Duncan, became king;
reigned 17 years, but his right was disputed by Malcolm, Duncan's son, and he was defeated
by him and fell at Lumphanan, December 5, 1056.

MACCABEES, a body of Jewish patriots, followers of Judas Maccabæus, who in 2nd century B.C.
and in the interest of the Jewish faith withstood the oppression of Syria and held their own
for a goodly number of years against not only the foreign yoke that oppressed them, but against
the Hellenising corruption of their faith at home.

MACCABEES, BOOKS OF, two books of the Apocrypha which give, the first, an account of the heroic
struggle which the Maccabees maintained from 175 to 135 B.C. against the kings of Syria, and
the second, of an intercalary period of Jewish history from 175 to 160 B.C., much of it of
legendary unreliable matter; besides these two a third and a fourth of a still more apocryphal
character are extant.

M'CARTHY, JUSTIN, writer and politician, began life as a journalist; is the author of a "History
of Our Own Times" and a "History of the Four Georges," as well as a number of novels; represents
North Longford in Parliament; b. 1830.

M'CHEYNE, ROBERT MURRAY, the subject of a well-known memoir by Andrew Bonar, was born in Edinburgh,
educated at the university there, and was minister of St. Peter's, Dundee, from 1836 till his
death; he is esteemed a saint by pious evangelical people, by whom the memoirs of him are much
prized (1813-1843).

M'CLELLAN, American general, born in Philadelphia; served in the Mexican War, and in the War
of Secession, eventually as commander-in-chief; was author of military engineering works (1826-1882).

MACCLESFIELD (36), Cheshire manufacturing town on the Bollin, 15 m. S. of Manchester; has a
13th-century church, and a grammar-school founded by Edward VI.; its staple industry is silk
manufactures; there are breweries, and mining and quarrying near.

MACCLINTOCK, Arctic navigator, born at Dundalk; sent out by Lady Franklin to discover the fate
of Sir John and his crew; wrote an account of the voyage (1819-1891).

M'CLURE, Arctic navigator, born in Wexford; went out in search of Franklin, and discovered
the North-West Passage in 1850 (1807-1873).

M'CRIE, THOMAS, a Scotch seceder, born in Dunse; was minister in Edinburgh; author of the "Life
of John Knox," published in 1812; defended the Covenanters against Scott; he was a man of dignified
military presence (1772-1835).

M'CULLOCH, HORATIO, a Scottish landscape-painter, born in Glasgow; was distinguished for his
Highland landscapes (1806-1867).

M'CULLOCH, JOHN RAMSEY, political economist, born in Isle of Whithorn; contributed to the Scotsman
and Edinburgh Review; wrote "Principles of Political Economy," and edited Dictionaries of Commerce
and Geography (1789-1864).

MACCUNN, HAMISH, Scottish composer, born at Greenock; entered the Royal College of Music in
1883, and became junior professor of Harmony at the Royal Academy; his fertility in melody
and mastery of the orchestra are devoted to music of strong national characteristics, as his
overture "Land of the Mountain and the Flood," and his choral work "The Lay of the Last Minstrel"
show; b. 1868.

MACDONALD, marshal of France, born at Sancerre, of Scotch descent, entered the army at the
time of the Revolution as a lieutenant, and rapidly rose in rank; served with distinction under
Napoleon, especially at Wagram, when he was made Duke of Taranto; supported the Bourbons on
their restoration (1765-1840).

MACDONALD, SIR CLAUDE M., British Minister at Peking; served in the army in Egypt in 1882 and
1884, as a diplomatist in Zanzibar in 1887, and on the coast of Africa as commissioner in 1888;
was sent to Peking in 1896; b. 1852.

MACDONALD, FLORA, a devoted Jacobite who, at the risk of her own life, screened Prince Charles
Edward after his defeat at Culloden from his pursuers, and saw him safe off to France, for
which she was afterwards confined for a short time in the Tower (1722-1790).

MACDONALD, GEORGE, novelist, born in Huntly; trained for the ministry, but devoted himself
to literature; is the author, among other works, of "Robert Falconer," "David Elginbrod," and
"Alec Forbes"; his interests are religious, and his views liberal, particularly on religious
matters; b., 1824.

MACE, THE, the symbol of authority in the House of Commons; is placed on the table when the
House is sitting, and is under the table as a rule when the Speaker is not in the chair.

MACEDONIA, an ancient kingdom lying between Thrace and Illyria, the Balkans and the Ægean;
mostly mountainous, but with some fertile plains; watered by the Strymon, Axius, and Heliacmon
Rivers; was noted for its gold and silver, its oil and wine. Founded seven centuries B.C.,
the monarchy was raised to dignity and power by Archelaus in the 5th century. Philip II. (359
B.C.) established it yet more firmly; and his son, Alexander the Great, extended its sway over
half the world. His empire broke up after his death, and the Romans conquered it in 168 B.C.
Ægæ and Pella were its ancient capitals, Philippi, Thessalonica, and Amphipolis among its towns.
After many vicissitudes during the Middle Ages it is now a province of Turkey.

MACEDONIANS, a sect in the early Church who taught that the Holy Ghost was inferior to the
Father and the Son, so called from Macedonius, bishop of Constantinople, their leader.

MACFARREN, SIR GEORGE ALEXANDER, musical author and composer, born in London; studied at the
Royal Academy, and became professor there in 1834; in many operatic works he aimed at restoring
old English musical characteristics, and wrote also cantatas "Lenore," "May-Day," &c., and
oratorios, of which "John the Baptist" (1873) was the first; but his chief merit lies in his
writings on theory (1813-1887).

MACHIAVELLI, NICCOLO, statesman and historian, born in Florence, of an ancient family; was
secretary of the Florentine Republic from 1498 to 1512, and during that time conducted its
diplomatic affairs with a skill which led to his being sent on a number of foreign embassies;
he was opposed to the restoration of the Medici family, and on the return of it to power was
subjected to imprisonment and torture as a conspirator, but was at last set at liberty; he
spent the remainder of his life chiefly in literary labours, producing among other works a
treatise on government, entitled "The Prince," the principles of which have established for
him a notoriety wide as the civilised world (1469-1530).

MACHIAVELLISM, the doctrine taught by Machiavelli in "The Prince," that to preserve the integrity
of a State the ruler should not feel himself bound by any scruple such as may suggest itself
by considerations of justice and humanity; the State he regards as too precious an institution
to endanger by scruples of that sort.

M'IVOR, FLORA, the heroine in Scott's "Waverley."

MACK, KARL, Austrian general, born in Franconia; notorious for his military incapacity and
defeats; confronted by Napoleon at Ulm in 1805, he surrendered with 28,000 men without striking
a blow; for this he was tried by court-martial, and sentenced to death, which was commuted
to imprisonment for life, from which he was released at the end of a year (1752-1826).

MACKAY, CHARLES, journalist, novelist, and critic; wrote an autobiography entitled, "Forty
Years' Recollections of Life, Literature, and Public Affairs"; was the father of Eric Mackay,
author of "Love-Letters of a Violinist" (1814-1889).

MACKENZIE, SIR ALEXANDER CAMPBELL, composer, born at Edinburgh; studied in Germany and at the
Royal Academy; was teacher and conductor in his native city from 1865 to 1878, lived thereafter
in Italy; was made Principal of the Royal Academy of Music in 1887, and knighted in 1895; his
opera "Colomba" (1883) first brought him fame; among his works, which are of every kind, his
oratorio, "The Rose of Sharon" (1884), is reckoned best; b. 1847.

MACKENZIE, SIR GEORGE, eminent Scottish lawyer, born in Dundee; became King's Advocate for
Scotland; wrote on law and on other subjects in a style which commended itself to such a critic
as Dryden, though by his severe treatment of the Covenanters he earned in Scotland the opprobrious
title of the "bluidy Mackenzie" (1636-1691).

MACKENZIE, HENRY, novelist, born in Edinburgh; bred to law; author of "The Man of Feeling,"
"The Man of the World," and "Julia de Roubigné," written in a sentimental style; held the office
of Controller of Taxes in Scotland by favour of Pitt (1745-1831).

MACKENZIE RIVER, a river in N. America, rises in the Rocky Mountains; is fed by mighty streams
in its course, and falls into the Arctic Ocean after a course of over 2000 m. in length.

M'KINLEY, WILLIAM, American statesman, of Scottish parentage; served in the Civil War; born
at Niles, Ohio; entered Congress in 1877; made his mark as a zealous Protectionist; passed
in 1890 a tariff measure named after him; was elected to Presidency as the champion of a sound
currency in opposition to Mr. Bryan in November 1896; b. 1844.

MACKINTOSH, SIR JAMES, philosopher and politician, born in Inverness-shire; took his degree
in medicine, but went to the London bar; was a Whig in politics; wrote "Vindiciæ Gallicæ" in
reply to Burke's philippic; defended Peltier, Bonaparte's enemy, in a magnificent style, and
contributed a masterly preliminary "Dissertation on Ethics" to the "Encyclopædia Britannica"
(1763-1832).

MACLAREN, IAN (nom de plume of Rev. John Watson), born in Essex, of Scottish parents; studied
in Edinburgh; was minister of the Free Church in Logiealmond and in Glasgow, and translated
to Sefton Park Presbyterian Church, Liverpool, In 1880; wrote a series of idylls entitled "Beside
the Bonnie Brier Bush," and a second series entitled "The Days of Auld Lang Syne"; both had
a large circulation, and a number of other works, religious as well as fictitious; b. 1850.

MACLAURIN, COLIN, mathematician, born in Kilmoden, Argyllshire; was professor of Mathematics
in Aberdeen and in Edinburgh; wrote a "Treatise on Fluxions," in defence of Newton against
Berkeley, and an "Account of Newton's Discoveries"; did much to give an impetus to mathematical
study in Scotland (1698-1746).

MACLEOD, NORMAN, liberal Scottish clergyman, born at Campbeltown, son of the manse; a genial,
warm-hearted man; an earnest, powerful, and vigorous preacher, and a humorous writer; a visit
to India in connection with missions shortened his days (1817-1872).

MACLISE, DANIEL, painter, born at Cork, of Scottish extraction; among his oil-paintings are
"Mokanna Unveiling," "All Hallow Eve," "Bohemian Gipsies," and the "Banquet Scene in Macbeth,"
his last work being a series of cartoons painted in fresco for the palace of Westminster illustrative
of the glories of England (1811-1870).

MACMAHON, DUKE OF MAGENTA, marshal of France, born at Sully, of Irish descent, second President
of the third French republic from 1873 to 1879; distinguished himself in Algeria and at the
Crimea, and took part in the Franco-German War to his defeat and capture (1808-1893).

MACPHERSON, JAMES, a Gaelic scholar, born in Ruthven, Inverness-shire; identified with the
publication of the poems of Ossian, the originals of which he professed to have discovered
in the course of a tour through the Highlands, and about the authenticity of which there has
been much debate, though they were the making of his fortune; he was buried in Westminster
Abbey at his own request and expense (1738-1796).

MACRAMÉ LACE, a coarse lace made of twine, used to decorate furniture generally.

MACREADY, WILLIAM CHARLES, English tragedian, born in London; he began his career as an actor
in Birmingham in the character of Romeo, and was enthusiastically received on his first appearance
in London; was distinguished for his impersonation of Shakespeare's characters, but suffered
a good deal from professional rivalries; leased in succession Covent Garden and Drury Lane
theatres with pecuniary loss, and when he took farewell of the stage he was entertained at
a banquet, attended by a host of friends eminent in both art and literature (1793-1873).

MACROMETER, an optical instrument to determine the size or distance of inaccessible objects.

MACTURK, CAPTAIN HECTOR, "the man of peace" in "St. Ronan's Well."

MADAGASCAR (3,500), largest island in the world but two, in the Indian Ocean, 300 m. off the
Mozambique coast, SE. Africa; is nearly three times the size of Great Britain, a plateau in
the centre, with low, fertile, wooded ground round about; has many extinct volcanoes and active
hot springs; the highest peak is Ankàratra (9000 ft.), in the centre; the NW. coast has some
good harbours; there are 300 m. of lagoons on the E.; the biggest lake is Alaotra, and the
rivers flow mostly W.; the climate is hot, with copious rains, except in the S.; rice, coffee,
sugar, and vanilla are cultivated; many kinds of valuable timber grow in the forests, and these,
with cattle, hides, and india-rubber, constitute the exports; gold, iron, copper, lead, and
sulphur are found, and the natives are skilled in working metals; the Malagasys possess civilised
institutions; slavery was abolished in 1879; a quarter of the population is Christian; the
heathen section, though untruthful and immoral, are affectionate, courageous, and loyal; Antanànarìvo
(100), the capital, is situated in the interior, and has many fine buildings; chief ports,
Tamatave on the E. and Majunga on the NW. coasts; the island has been under French protection
since 1890, and is a French colony since 1896.

MADEIRA (140), the chief of a group of small volcanic islands with precipitous coasts, in the
Atlantic, 400 m. off Morocco; has peaks 6000 ft. high and deep picturesque ravines; the island
is a favourite resort for consumptives; the climate is very mild and equable, the rainfall
moderate, and the soil fertile; crops of cereals and potatoes are raised; oranges, lemons,
grapes, figs, and bananas abound; Madeira wine is famous, and the chief export; Funchal (21)
is the capital, with an exposed harbour and some good buildings; the islands form a province
of Portugal.

MADEIRA RIVER (i. e. river of the wood), formed by the junction of the Mamoré and Beni on the
borders of Bolivia and Brazil, flows 900 m. NE., and joins the Amazon, as an affluent its longest
and largest, and forms a magnificent navigable waterway.

MADELEINE, CHURCH OF THE, one of the principal and wealthiest churches in Paris, erected in
the style of a Greek temple, and the building of which, began in 1764, was not finished till
1842, both the interior and exterior of which has been adorned by the most distinguished artists.

MADGE WILDFIRE, a pretty but giddy girl in the "Heart of Midlothian," whom seduction and the
murder of her child drove crazy.

MADISON, JAMES, American statesman and President, born at Port Conway, Virginia, educated at
Princeton; devoted himself to politics in 1776; he took part in framing the Virginia constitution,
and subsequently secured religious liberty in the State; with Jay and Hamilton he collaborated
to establish the federation of the States and to frame the Federal Constitution; the "three-fifths"
rule, which won the adhesion of the slave-holding States, was his suggestion; elected to the
first Congress, he attached himself to Jefferson's party, and was Secretary of State during
Jefferson's Presidency, 1801-1809; he succeeded his former leader and held office for two terms,
during which the war of 1812-14 with England was waged; his public life closed with his term
of office, 1817 (1751-1836).

MADMAN OF THE NORTH, Charles XII. of Sweden, so called from his temerity and impetuosity.

MADOC, a Welshman who, according to Welsh tradition, discovered America 300 years before Columbus,
after staying in which for a time he returned, gave an account of what he had seen and experienced,
and went back, but was never heard of more; his story has been amplified by Southey in an epic.

MADONNA is the name given to pictures of the Virgin with the infant Christ, and more generally
to all sacred pictures in which the Virgin is a prominent figure; the Virgin has been a favourite
subject of art from the earliest times, the first representation of her being, according to
legend, by St. Luke; different countries and schools have depicted their Madonnas, each in
its own characteristic style; the greatest of all are the Sistine and Della Sedia of Raphael.

MADRAS (35,630), one of the three Indian Presidencies, occupies the S. and E. of the peninsula,
and is one-half as large again as Great Britain; the chief mountains are the Ghâts, from which
flow SE. the Godavari, Kistna, and Kavari Rivers, which, by means of extensive irrigation works,
fertilise the plains; climate is various; on the W. coast very hot and with a rainfall from
June to October of 120 inches, producing luxurious vegetation; on the E. the heat is also great,
but the rainfall, which comes chiefly between October and December, is only 40 inches; in the
hill country, e. g. Ootacamund, the government summer quarters, it is genial and temperate
all the year, and but for the monsoons the finest in the world; rice is everywhere the chief
crop; cotton is grown in the E., tobacco in the Godavari region, tea, coffee, and cinchona
on the hills, and sugar-cane in different districts; gold is found in Mysore (native State),
and diamonds in the Karnul; iron abounds, but without coal; the teak forests are of great value;
cotton, gunny-bags, sugar, and tiles are the chief manufactures; English settlements date from
1611; the population, chiefly Hindu, includes 2 million Mohammedans and ¾ million Christians;
the chief towns are Rujumahendri (28), Vizugapatam (34), Trichinopoli (91), of cheroot fame,
and Mangalore (41), on the W. coast, and the capital MADRAS (453), on the E., Coromandel, coast,
a straggling city, hot but healthy, with an open roadstead, pier, and harbour exposed to cyclones,
a university, examining body only, colleges of science, medicine, art, and agriculture, and
a large museum; the chief exports are coffee, tea, cotton, and indigo.

MADRID (522), since 1561 the capital of Spain, on the Manzanares, a mere mountain torrent,
on an arid plateau in New Castile, the centre of the peninsula; is an insanitary city, and
liable to great extremes of temperature; it is regularly built, sometimes picturesque, with
great open spaces, such as the Prado, 3 m. long; fine buildings and handsome streets. It contains
the royal palace, parliament and law-court houses, a university, magnificent picture-gallery,
many charitable institutions, and a bull-ring. The book-publishing, tapestry weaving, and tobacco
industries are the most important. It is a growing and prosperous city.

MADRIGAL, a short lyric containing some pleasant thought or sweet sentiment daintily expressed;
applied also to vocal music of a similar character.

MADVIG, JOHAN NICOLAI, Danish scholar and politician, born at Svaneke, Bornholm; studied at
Copenhagen, where he became professor of Latin in 1829; his studies of the Latin prose authors
brought him world-wide fame, and his Latin Grammar (1841) and Greek Syntax (1846) were invaluable
contributions to scholarship; he entered parliament, was repeatedly its president, and was
Liberal Minister of Education and Religion 1848 to 1851; he died blind (1804-1886).

MÆANDER, a river in Phrygia, flowing through the Plain of Troy, and noted for its numerous
windings.

MÆCENAS, a wealthy Roman statesman, celebrated for his patronage of letters; was the friend
and adviser of Augustus Cæsar, and the patron of Virgil and Horace; claimed descent from the
ancient Etruscan kings; left the most of his property to Augustus; d. 8 B.C.

MAELSTRÖM. See MALSTRÖM.

MÆNADES, the priestesses of Bacchus, who at the celebration of his festivals gave way to expressions
of frenzied enthusiasm, as if they were under the spell of some demonic power.

MÆONIDES, a name given to Homer, either as the son of Mæon, or as born, according to one tradition,
in Mæonia.

MAESTRICHT (33), capital of Dutch Limburg, on the Maes, 57 m. E. of Brussels; has manufactures
of glass, earthenware, and carpets; near it are the vast subterranean quarries of the Pietersberg,
opened by the Romans.

MAETERLINCK, MAURICE, Belgian dramatist, born at Ghent; earned his fame by "La Princesse Maleine,"
produced in Paris 1890, and followed by "L'Intruse," "Les Aveugles," and several other plays;
his essays show religious sympathies; b. 1864.

MAFEKING, a station in NE. of British Bechuanaland, on the Transvaal frontier, on the railway
from Cape Town.

MAFFIA, a Sicilian secret society which aims at boycotting the law-courts, superseding the
law, and ruling the island; its chief weapon is the boycott; violence is only resorted to for
vengeance; funds are raised by blackmail; popular support enables it to control elections,
avoid legal proceedings, and influence industrial questions. The Italian government try in
vain to put it down.

MAGDALA, an Abyssinian hill fortress on a lofty plateau 300 m. S. of Massowah; captured by
Lord Napier, who had been sent in 1868 to rescue certain British subjects held prisoners there,
and which he succeeded in doing.

MAGDALENE, MARY, a Galilæan, belonging to Magdala, on the Sea of Galilee, who followed Christ,
stood by the cross, prepared spices for His sepulchre, to whom He first appeared after His
resurrection, and who is supposed by some recent critics to be the sole voucher for His rising
again.

MAGDEBURG (202), on the Elbe, 75 m. SW. of Berlin, is the capital of Prussian Saxony, one of
the most important fortresses, the chief sugar market of Germany, and the seat of large iron
manufactures; it has also distilleries and cotton mills, and is a busy railway centre; it is
a place of ancient date and historical interest.

MAGELLAN, FERDINAND, Portuguese navigator; served his country first in the East Indies and
Morocco, but dissatisfied with King Manuel's treatment of him, offered himself to Spain; under
Charles V.'s patronage he and Ruy Falero set out to reach the Moluccas by the west in 1519;
he reached the Philippines, and died in battle in Matan; on this voyage he discovered the MAGELLAN
STRAIT, 375 m. long and 15 m. wide, between the South American mainland and Tierra del Fuego;
he gave name to the Pacific from the calm he exceptionally, it appears, experienced on entering
it (1470-1521).

MAGELLANIC CLOUDS, two masses of stars and nebulæ seen in the southern hemisphere, not far
from the South Pole.

MAGENDIE, FRANÇOIS, a celebrated French physiologist, born at Bordeaux; was the author of several
works on physiology, made important discoveries in connection with the animal system, and was
an unscrupulous vivisectionist (1783-1855).

MAGENTA (6), Italian town, 15 m. W. of Milan, where Macmahon defeated a superior Austrian force
in 1859.

MAGGIORE, LAGO (i. e. the Greater Lake), a large lake in the N. of Italy, partly in Switzerland,
37 m. in length, and 8 m. in greatest breadth, the river Ticino flowing through it. THE BORROMEAN
ISLANDS (q. v.) occupy a western arm of the lake.

MAGI, a priestly caste in the East, constituting the "learned" class, as the Druids in the
West: the custodiers of religion and the rites connected therewith, and who gave themselves
up to the study of sciences of a recondite character, but with a human interest, such as astrology
and magic, and who were held in great reverence by, and exercised a great influence over, the
people.

MAGI, THE THREE, the "wise men from the East" mentioned in Matt. ii.--Melchior, an old man,
who brought gold, the emblem of royalty; Gaspar, a youth, who brought frankincense, the emblem
of divinity; Balthazar, a Moor, who brought myrrh, the emblem of humanity--and who were eventually
regarded as the patron saints of travellers.

MAGIC, the pretended art to which extraordinary and marvellous effects are ascribed, of evoking
and subjecting to the human will supernatural powers, and of producing by means of them apparitions,
incantations, cures, &c., and the practice of which we find prevailing in all superstitious
ages of the world and among superstitious people. See SUPERSTITION.

MAGINN, WILLIAM, a witty, generous-hearted Irishman, born in Cork; a man of versatile ability,
who contributed largely to Blackwood, and became editor of Fraser's Magazine, in the conduct
of which latter he gathered round him as contributors a number of the most eminent literary
men; the stories and verses he wrote gave signs of something like genius (1793-1842).

MAGLIABECCHI, an inordinate bookworm, born in Florence; became librarian of the Grand-Duke;
his book-knowledge was as unbounded as his avidity for knowledge; his memory was extraordinary;
he carried in his head the page of a passage in a book as well as the passage itself in the
ipsissima verba, (1633-1714).

MAGNA CHARTA, "the great charter," extorted from King John by the barons of England at Runnymede
on June 5, 1215, that guaranteed certain rights and privileges to the subjects of the realm,
which were pronounced inviolable, and that established the supremacy of the law over the will
of the monarch.

MAGNA GRÆCA, the ancient name of the southern part of Italy, so called in early times as it
was extensively colonised by Greeks.

MAGNET, the name given to loadstone as first discovered in Magnesia, a town in Asia Minor;
also to a piece of iron, nickel, or cobalt having similar properties, notably the power of
setting itself in a definite direction; also a coil of wire carrying an electric current, because
such a coil really possesses the properties characteristic of an iron magnet.

MAGNETIC INDUCTION, power in a magnet of imparting its qualities to certain other substances.

MAGNETISM, the branch of science devoted to the study of the properties of magnets, and of
electric currents in their magnetic relations; sometimes also used to denote the subtle influence
supposed to lie at the root of all magnetic phenomena, of the true nature of which nothing
is known. See ANIMAL MAGNETISM.

MAGNIFICAT, THE, a musical composition embracing the song of the Virgin Mary in Luke I. 46-55,
so called from the first word of the song in the Vulgate; it belongs to, and forms part of,
the evening service.

MAGNUSSEN, FINN, a Scandinavian scholar and archæologist, born in Iceland; became professor
of Literature at Copenhagen in 1815; distinguished for his translation and exposition of the
"Elder Edda" (1781-1847).

MAGYARS, a people of Mongolian origin from the highlands of Central Asia that migrated westward
and settled in Hungary and Transylvania, where they now form the dominant race.

MAHÂBHÂRATA, one of the two great epic poems of ancient India, a work of slow growth, extending
through ages, and of an essentially encyclopædic character; one of the main sources of our
knowledge of the ancient Indian religions and their mythologies; it is said to consist of upwards
of 100,000 verses.

MAHÂDÊVA, the great god of the Hindus; an appellation of SIVA (q. v.), as Mahâdêvi is of Durgâ,
his wife.

MAHÁNADÉ, a great Indian river which, after flowing eastward for over 500 m., the last 300
of which are navigable, falls into the Bay of Bengal near Cape Palmyras; its volume in flood
is enormous, and renders it invaluable for irrigation.

MAHATMA, one who, according to the Theosophists, has passed through the complete cycle of incarnation,
has thereby attained perfection of being, and acquired the rank of high priesthood and miraculous
powers in the spirit world, one, it would seem, of "the spirits of just men made perfect."

MAHDI (i. e. religious leader), a name given to any Mohammedan fanatic who arises in the interest
of the Mohammedan faith, summons the Moslems to war, and leads them to repel the infidel; a
kind of Mohammed Messiah armed with the sword for the conquest of the world to the faith.

MAHDI, MOHAMMED AHMED, a Mohammedan fanatic, born in Dongola, and who, at the head of an army
of dervishes, raised his standard for the revival of Islam in the Soudan; he was unsuccessfully
opposed by the Egyptians, and Khartoum, occupied by them, fell into his hands, to the sacrifice
of General Gordon, just as the British relief army under Lord Wolseley approached its walls
in 1885, a few months after which he died at Omdurman.

MAHDISM, a hope cherished by devout Moslems of a Mahdi to come who will lead them on to victory
against the infidel and to the conquest of the world.

MAHMUD II., Sultan of Turkey; crushed a rebellion on his accession by putting his brother to
death, on whose behalf the janissaries had risen, as they afterwards did to their annihilation
at his hands by wholesale massacre; by the victory of Navarino in 1827 he lost his hold of
Greece, which declared its independence, and was near losing his suzerainty in Egypt when he
died; his reign was an eventful one (1785-1839).

MAHOMET. See MOHAMMED.

MAHON, LORD, EARL STANHOPE, statesman and historian; wrote "History of the War of the Succession
in Spain," "History of the Reign of Queen Anne," and "History of England from the Peace of
Utrecht to the Peace of Versailles" (1805-1875).

MAHONY, FRANCIS, an Irish priest, born in Cork, who took to journalism, and is known by his
nom de plume of Father Prout; contributed to Fraser's Magazine, and was foreign correspondent
to the Daily News and the Globe; was famous for his elegant translations (1804-1866).

MAHOUN, a contemptuous name for Mahomet, transferred in Scotland to the devil, who was called
Old Mahoun.

MAHRATTAS, a warlike Hindu race in Central India, occupying a territory watered by the Nerbudda,
Godavari, and Kistna, who at one time kept up a struggle for the supremacy of India with the
British, but were finally subdued in 1843.

MAÏ, ANGELO, cardinal, distinguished scholar and editor; became librarian of the Vatican; was
distinguished for deciphering PALIMPSESTS (q. v.), and thus disclosing lost classical works
or fragments of them; he edited a number of unedited MSS. which he found in the Vatican, and
in particular the Vatican codex of the Bible (1782-1854).

MAIA, the daughter of Atlas, the eldest of the seven PLEIADES (q. v.), and the mother by Zeus
of Hermes or Mercury.

MAID MARIAN, a man dressed as a woman who grimaced and performed antics in the morris dances.

MAID OF NORWAY, daughter of Eric II., king of Norway, and through her mother heiress to the
Scottish crown; died on her passage to Scotland in 1240.

MAID OF ORLEANS, Joan of Arc, so called from her defence of Orleans against the English. See JOAN.

MAIDEN, THE, a sort of guillotine that appears to have been in use in Scotland during the 15th
and 16th centuries, of which there is one in the Antiquarian Museum, Edinburgh.

MAIDMENT, JAMES, antiquary and collector, born in London; passed through Edinburgh University
to the Scotch bar, and was chief authority on genealogical cases; his hobby was the collection
of literary rarities, and he published editions of ancient literary remains; he died at Edinburgh
(1794-1879).

MAIDSTONE (32), county town of Kent, on the Medway, 30 m. SE. of London; has several fine old
churches and historical buildings, a grammar school and a school of art and music, numerous
paper-mills, and breweries, and does a large trade in hops; Woollett the engraver and Hazlitt
the essayist were born here.

MAIMON, SOLOMON, philosopher, born, of Jewish parents, in a village of Minsk; came to Berlin,
where he studied, lived an eccentric, vagabond life, dependent mostly on his friends; made
the acquaintance of Kant and Goethe, and attempted and published an eclectic system of philosophy
in 1790, being Kant's system supplemented from Spinoza, Leibnitz, and Locke, and even Hume;
his last patron was Count Kalkreuth, at whose house in Siegersdorf he died (1754-1800).

MAIMONIDES, MOSES, a Jewish rabbi, born at Cordova, whom the Jews regarded as their Plato,
and called the "Lamp of Israel" and the "Eagle of the doctors"; was a man of immense learning,
and was physician to the Sultan of Egypt; in his relation to the Jews he ranks next to Moses,
and taught them to interpret their religion in the light of reason; he wrote a "Commentary
on the Mishna and the Second Law," but his chief work is the "Moreh Nebochim," or "Guide to
the Perplexed" (1135-1204).

MAINE (662), the most north-easterly State in the American Union, lies between Quebec and New
Hampshire on the W. and New Brunswick and the Atlantic on the E., and is a little larger than
Ireland, a picturesque State with high mountains in the W., Katahdin (5000 ft), many large
lakes like Moosehead, numerous rivers, and a much indented rocky coast; the climate is severe
but healthy, the soil only in some places fertile, the rainfall is abundant; dense forests
cover the north; hay, potatoes, apples, and sweet corn are chief crops; cotton, woollen, leather
manufactures, lumber working, and fruit canning are principal industries; the fisheries are
valuable; timber, building stone, cattle, wool, and in winter ice are exported; early Dutch,
English, and French settlements were unsuccessful till 1630; from 1651 Maine was part of Massachusetts,
till made a separate State in 1820; the population is English-Puritan and French-Canadian in
origin; education is advancing; the State's Liquor Law of 1851 was among the first of the kind:
the capital is Augusta (11); Portland (36) is the largest city and chief seaport; Lewiston
(22) has cotton manufactures.

MAINE, SIR HENRY, English jurist, legal member of the Council in India, and professor of Jurisprudence
at Oxford; wrote on "Ancient Law," and important works on ancient institutions generally; regarded
the social system as a development of the patriarchal system (1822-1888).

MAINTENANCE, CAP OF, an ermine-lined, crimson velvet cap, the wearing of which was a distinction
granted first to dukes but subsequently to various other families.

MAINTENON, FRANÇOISE D'AUBIGNÉ, MARQUISE DE, born in the prison of Niort, where her father
was incarcerated as a Protestant; though well inoculated with Protestant principles she turned
a Catholic, married the poet Scarron in 1652, became a widow in 1660; was entrusted with the
education of the children of Louis XIV. and Madame de Montespan; supplanted the latter in the
king's affections, and was secretly married to him in 1684; she exercised a great influence
over him, not always for good, and on his death in 1715 retired into the Convent of St. Cyr,
which she had herself founded for young ladies of noble birth but in humble circumstances (1635-1719).

MAINZ or MAYENCE (72), in Hesse-Darmstadt, on the Rhine, opposite the mouth of the Main, is
an important German fortress and one of the oldest cities in Germany; it has a magnificent
cathedral, restored in 1878, and is a stronghold of Catholicism; a large transit trade is done,
and the making of furniture, leather goods, and machinery are important industries; Gutenberg
was a native.

MAISTRE, COUNT, JOSEPH DE, a keen and extreme Ultramontanist, born at Chambéry, of a noble
French family; accompanied the king of Sardinia in his retreat while the French occupied Savoy
in 1792; was ambassador at St. Petersburg from 1803 to 1817, when he was recalled to the home
government at Turin; wrote numerous works, the chief "Du Pape" and "Soirées de St. Petersbourg"
(1753-1821).

MAITLAND, WILLIAM, Scottish politician and reformer, the Secretary Lethington of Queen Mary's
reign; played a prominent part in the various movements of his time, but gained the confidence
of no party; he adhered to the party of Moray as against the extreme measures of Knox, and
proved a highly astute ambassador at the English Court; he connived at Rizzio's murder, but
regained Mary's favour, and when she fled to England he, though joining with the new government,
acted in her interest and formed a party to restore her to power; he and Kirkcaldy of Grange
were forced to surrender, however, at Edinburgh in 1573, and Maitland afterwards died in Leith
prison (1525-1573).

MAJOLICA, a kind of enamelled pottery imported into Italy from Majorca, known also as faience
from its manufacture at Faenza, and applied also to vessels made of coloured clay in imitation.

MAJORCA (234), the largest of the Balearic Isles, is 130 m. NE. of Cape San Antonio, in Spain;
mountains in the N. rise to 5000 ft., their slopes covered with olives, oranges, and vines;
the plains are extremely fertile, and the climate mild and equable; manufactures of cotton,
silk, and shoes are the industries; the capital, PALMA (61), is on the S. coast, at the head
of a large bay of the same name.

MAJUSCULE, a capital letter found in old Latin MSS. in and before the 6th century.

MAKRIZI, TAKI-ED-DIN AHMED EL-, greatest Arabic historian of Egypt, born at Cairo; studied
philosophy and theology, and in 1385 won the green turban; occupied several political and ecclesiastical
offices; went to Damascus in 1408, but returning to Cairo devoted himself to history, and published
among other works an important "History of Egypt and Cairo" (1364-1442).

MALABAR (2,653), a district in the W. of Madras, sloping from the Ghâts down to the Indian
Ocean, very rainy, covered with vast forests of teak; produces rice, coffee, and pepper.

MALACCA is a name given to the whole Malay Peninsula, that remarkable tongue of land 44 to
210 m. wide, stretching 800 m. SE. from Burma between the Strait of Malacca and the Gulf of
Siam; mountain ranges 7000 ft. high from the backbone; along the coast are deep mangrove swamps;
the plains between yield rice, sugar-cane, cotton, and tobacco; there are forests of teak,
camphor, ebony, and sandal-wood, and the richest tin mines in the world; the climate is unhealthy;
the northern portion is Siamese, the southern constitutes the British Straits Settlements,
of which one, on the W. coast, is specifically called MALACCA (92); it exports tin and tapioca;
the capital, MALACCA (20), 120 m. NW. of Singapore, was the scene of Francis Xavier's labours.

MALACHI, a prophetic book of the Old Testament, the author of which is otherwise unknown, as
the name, which means the "Messenger of Jehovah," occurs nowhere else in the Bible, and it
is a question whether the name is that of a person or a mere appellative; the prophecy it contains
appears to have been uttered 420 B.C., and refers to abuses which came to a head between the
first and second visits of Nehemiah to Jerusalem; it lacks the old prophetic fire, and gives
the impression that the prophetic office is ended.

MALACHY, ST., archbishop of Armagh in the 12th century; was a friend of St. Bernard's, who
wrote his Life and in whose arms he died at Clairvaux; was renowned for his sanctity as well
as learning; a book of prophecies ascribed to him bearing on the Roman pontiffs is a forgery.

MALADETTA, MOUNT (i. e. the accursed), the name of the highest summit of the Pyrenees, 11,168
ft. high, in NE. of Zaragoza.

MALAGA (132), Spanish seaport, 65 m. NE. of Gibraltar, an ancient Phoenician town, is now an
important but declining centre of commerce; it exports olive-oil, wine, raisins, lead, &c.,
and manufactures cotton, linen, machinery, fine-art pottery, &c.; its magnificent climate makes
it an excellent health resort.

MALAGROWTHER, an old courtier in the "Fortunes of Nigel" soured by misfortune, and who would
have every one be as discontented as himself.

MALAISE, an uneasy feeling which often precedes a serious attack of some disease.

MALAPROP, MRS., a character in Sheridan's "Rivals," noted for her blunders in the use of fine
or learned words, as in the use of "allegory" for "alligator."

MÄLAR LAKE, large and beautiful Swedish lake, stretching 80 m. westward from Stockholm; its
shores are deeply indented with bays, and the surrounding hills as well as the thousand islands
it contains are well wooded.

MALAY ARCHIPELAGO or INDIAN ARCHIPELAGO is that group of many hundred islands stretching from
the Malay Peninsula SE. to Australia between the North Pacific and the Indian Ocean, of which
Borneo, Sumatra, Java, and Celebes are the largest.

MALAYS, a branch of the human family now classed among the Mongols, and which inhabit the Malay
Peninsula, the islands of the Indian Archipelago, as well as Madagascar, and many of the islands
in the Pacific; they are of a dark-brown or tawny complexion, short of stature, have flat faces,
black coarse hair, and high cheek-bones; there are three classes of them, distinguished from
each other in character and habits of life; the more civilised of them are Mohammedans.

MALCOLM, SIR JOHN, Indian soldier and statesman, born in Dumfriesshire; went as cadet to the
Madras army in 1785, and for over 30 years was an important figure in Eastern affairs; he was
ambassador to Persia 1800, governor of Mysore 1803, again in Persia as plenipotentiary in 1807
and 1810, political agent in the Deccan 1817, and governor of Bombay 1827-30; he distinguished
himself also in several wars; wrote "A History of Persia" and other historical works, and returning
to England entered Parliament in 1831, opposed to the Reform Bill; two years later he died
in London (1769-1833).

MALCOLM CANMORE, son of Duncan, whom Macbeth slew, succeeded his father in 1040 as king of
Cumbria and Lothian, and in 1057, on Macbeth's death, became king of all Scotland; till 1066
his reign was peaceful, but thereafter it was one long conflict with the Normans in England;
raids and counter-raids succeeded each other till, in 1091, Malcolm was forced to do homage
to William Rufus; next year he lost his possessions S. of the Solway, and in 1093 he was slain
in battle at Alnwick; the influence of his second wife, the saintly Margaret, did much to promote
the civilisation of Scotland and to bring the Scottish Church into harmony with the rest of
Christendom.

MALDIVE ISLANDS (20), a chain of several hundred tiny coral islands in the Indian Ocean stretching
550 m. southward from a point 300 m. SW. of Cape Comorin, 200 of which are inhabited; Malé
is the residence of the sultan, who is a tributary of the governor of Ceylon; the natives are
akin to the Singhalese, and occupy themselves gathering cowries, cocoa-nuts, and tortoise-shell
for exportation.

MALEBOLGE, the name given to the eighth circle in Dante's "Inferno," as consisting of "evil
pits," which the name means, 10 in number, for those guilty of frauds: contains (1) seducers,
(2) flatterers, (3) simonists, (4) soothsayers, (5) bribers and receivers of bribes, (6) hypocrites,
(7) robbers, (8) evil advisers, (9) slanderers, (10) forgers.

MALEBRANCHE, NICHOLAS, a French metaphysician, born in Paris; determined to embrace a monastic
life, entered the congregation of the Oratory at the age of 22, and devoted himself to theological
study, till the treatise of Descartes on "Man" falling into his hands, he gave himself up to
philosophy; his famous work "De la Recherche de la Vérité" was published in 1673, the main
object of which was to bridge over the gulf which separates mind from matter by the establishment
of the thesis that the mind immediately perceives God, and sees all things in God, who in Himself
includes the presumed irreconcilable antithesis (1638-1715).

MALESHERBES, LAMOIGNON DE, French statesman, born in Paris; a good and upright man; was twice
over called to be one of Louis XVI.'s advisers, but his advice was not taken and he retired;
defended Louis at his trial; pled for him "with eloquent want of eloquence, in broken sentences,
in embarrassment and sobs," and was guillotined for it; he had been censor of the press, and
to his liberal-minded censorship the world owes the publication of the "Encyclopédie" (1721-1794).

MALHERBE, FRANÇOIS DE, a French lyric poet and miscellaneous writer of great industry, born
at Caen, is, from his correct though affected style, regarded as one of the reformers of the
French language (1555-1628).

MALIGNANTS, the advisers of Charles I., chief among whom were Strafford and Laud; were so called
by the Parliamentarians, who blamed them for the evils of the country; the name was afterwards
applied to the whole Royalist party.

MALINES or MECHLIN (52), a Belgian city on the Dyle, 14 m. S. of Antwerp; has lost its old
commercial activity, and is now the quiet ecclesiastical capital; masterpieces of Van Dyck
and Rubens adorn its churches.

MALINGERING, a name given in the army to the crime of feigning illness to evade duty or obtain
a discharge.

MALLET, DAVID, originally MALLOCH, Scottish littérateur, born in Crieff; wrote several plays,
and is remembered for his ballad entitled "William and Margaret"; he was a friend of Thomson,
and divided with him the honour of the authorship of "Rule Britannia," the merit of which,
however, is more in the music than in the poetry, about which they contested (1702-1765).

MALLOCK, WILLIAM HURRELL, author, born in Devonshire, educated at Oxford; published "The New
Republic," 1876, a masterly satire on prominent contemporaries, which none of his subsequent
work has excelled; b. 1849.

MALMAISON, a historical château 10 m. W. of Paris; belonged originally to Richelieu; saw the
last days of Joséphine, whose favourite residence it was, and was the scene of the repulse
of Ducrot's sortie in October 1870.

MALMESBURY, WILLIAM OF, an English chronicler of the 12th century; his chief work "Gesta Regum
Anglorum" and "Gesta Pontificum Anglorum," followed by his "Historia Novella."

MALMÖ (50), important seaport and third town of Sweden, opposite Copenhagen; ships farm produce,
cement, and timber; imports machinery, textile fabrics, and coffee; has cigar and sugar factories,
and some shipbuilding.

MALONE, EDMUND, a Shakespearian critic and editor, born in Dublin, was a stickler for literary
accuracy and honesty (1741-1812).

MALORY, SIR THOMAS, flourished in the 15th century; was the author of "Morte d'Arthur," being
a translation in prose of a labyrinthine selection of Arthurian legends, which was finished
in the ninth year of Edward IV., and printed fifteen years after by Caxton "with all care."

MALPIGHI, MARCELLO, Italian anatomist and professor of Medicine; noted for his discovery of
the corpuscles of the kidney and the spleen, named after him (1628-1694).

MALSTRÖM, or MAELSTRÖM, a dangerous whirlpool off the coast of Norway, caused by the rushing
of the currents of the ocean in a channel between two of the Loffoden Islands, and intensified
at times by contrary winds, to the destruction often of particularly small craft caught in
the eddies of it, and sometimes of whales attempting to pass through it.

MALTA (with Gozo) (177), a small British island in the Mediterranean, 80 m. S. of Sicily; is
a strongly fortified and a most important naval station, head-quarters of the British Mediterranean
fleet, and coaling-station for naval and mercantile marine; with a history of great interest,
Malta was annexed to Britain in 1814. The island is treeless, and with few streams, but fertile,
and has many wells. Wheat, potatoes, and fruit are largely cultivated, and filigree work and
cotton manufactured. The people are industrious and thrifty; population is the densest in Europe.
The Roman Catholic Church is very powerful. There is a university at Valetta, and since 1887
Malta has been self-governing.

MALTEBRUN, CONRAD, geographer, born in Denmark; studied in Copenhagen, but banished for his
revolutionary sympathies; settled in Paris; was the author of several geographical works, his
"Geographic Universelle" the chief (1775-1826).

MALTHUS, THOMAS R., an English economist, born near Dorking, in Surrey; is famous as the author
of an "Essay on the Principle of Population," of which the first edition appeared in 1798,
and the final, greatly enlarged, in 1803; the publication provoked much hostile criticism,
as it propounded a doctrine which was disastrous to the accepted theory of perfectibility,
and which aimed at showing how the progress of the race was held in check by the limited supply
of the means of subsistence, a doctrine that admittedly anticipated that struggle for life
on a larger scale which the Darwinian hypothesis requires for its "survival of the fittest"
(1766-1834).

MALVERN, GREAT (6), a watering-place in Worcestershire, on the side of the Malvern Hills, with
a clear and bracing air, a plentiful supply of water, and much frequented by invalids.

MAMBRINO, a Moorish king, celebrated in the romances of chivalry, who possessed a helmet of
pure gold which rendered the wearer of it invulnerable, the possession of which was the ambition
of all the paladins of Charlemagne, and which was carried off by Rinaldo, who slew the original
owner; Cervantes makes his hero persuade himself that he has found it in a barber's brass basin.

MAMELUKES, originally slaves from the regions of the Caucasus, captured in war or bought in
the market-place, who became the bodyguard of the Sultan in Egypt, and by-and-by his master
to the extent of ruling the country and supplying a long line of Sultans of their own election
from themselves, many of them enlightened rulers, governing the country well, but their supremacy
was crushed by the Sultan of Turkey in 1517; after this, however, they retained much of their
power, and they offered a brilliant resistance to Bonaparte at the battle of the Pyramids in
1798, who defeated them; but recovering their power after his withdrawal and proving troublesome,
they were by two treacherous massacres annihilated in 1811 by Mehemet Ali, who became Viceroy
of Egypt under the Porte.

MAMMON, the Syrian god of riches, which has given name to the modern passion for material wealth,
specially conceived of as an abnegation of Christianity, the profession of which is in flat
antagonism to it.

MAMMOTH, an extinct species of elephant of enormous size found fossilised in Northern Europe
and Asia in deposits alongside of human remains, and yielding a supply of fossil ivory.

MAMMOTH CAVE, a cave in Kentucky, U.S., about 10 m., the largest in the world, and rising at
one point to 300 ft. in height, with numerous side branches leading into grottoes traversed
by rivers, which here and there collect into lakes; name also of another of smaller dimensions
in California.

MAN, ISLE OF (56), a small island in the Irish Sea, 35 m. W. of Cumberland and about the same
distance E. of Co. Down; from its equable climate and picturesque scenery is a favourite holiday
resort; it has important lead mines at Laxey and Foxdale; fishing and cattle-grazing are profitable
industries; the people are Keltic, with a language and government of their own; the island
is a bishopric, with the title Sodor and Man.

MAN OF DESTINY, name given to Napoleon Bonaparte as reflecting his own belief, for he was a
fatalist.

MAN OF FEELING, the title of a novel by Henry Mackenzie, frequently applied to himself as well
as his hero.

MAN OF ROSS, John Kyrle, a public-spirited gentleman, immortalised by Pope from the name of
his parish in Hereford. See KYRLE.

MAN OF SIN, name given in 2 Thess. ii. 3 to the incarnation at the height of its pride of the
spirit of Antichrist, synchronous with the day of its fall.

MANASSEH-BEN-ISRAEL, a Jewish rabbi, born at Lisbon; settled at Amsterdam; wrote several works
in the interest of Judaism (1604-1659).

MANBY, CAPTAIN, a militia officer, born in Norfolk; was inventor of the apparatus for saving
shipwrecked persons, and by means of which he saved the lives of nearly a thousand persons
himself (1765-1854).

MANCHA, LA, an ancient province of Spain, afterwards included in New Castile, the greater part
of which is occupied by Ciudad-Real; it is memorable as the scene of Don Quixote's adventures.

MANCHE, LA, the French name for the English Channel, so called from its resemblance to a sleeve,
which the word in French means.

MANCHESTER (505), on the Irwell, in the SE. of Lancashire, 30 m. E. of Liverpool, the centre
of the English cotton manufacturing district, with many other textile and related industries,
is an ancient, rich, and prosperous city; it has many fine buildings, including a Gothic Town
Hall and Assize Court-House by Waterhouse; there is a picture-gallery, philosophic and other
institutions, and technical school; Owens College is the nucleus of Victoria University; the
substitution of steam for hand power began here about 1750; the industrial struggles in the
beginning of the 19th century were severe, and included the famous "Peterloo massacre"; the
Anti-Corn-Law League originated in Manchester, and Manchester has given its name to a school
of Liberal politicians identified with the advocacy of peace abroad, free trade, no government
interference with industry, and laissez-faire principles at home; the Bridgewater Canal 1762,
the railway 1830, and the Ship Canal to the mouth of the Mersey 1894, mark steps in the city's
progress; since 1888 Manchester with Salford (198), on the opposite bank of the Irwell, have
formed a county.

MANCHESTER, EDWARD MONTAGU, EARL OF, English statesman and general, eldest son of the first
earl; sided with the Parliament in the Civil War, and commanded in the army, but was censured
by Cromwell for his slackness at Newbury, which he afterwards resented by opposing the policy
of the Protector; he contributed to the restoration of Charles II., and was in consequence
made Lord Chamberlain (1602-1671).

MANCHURIA (21,000), a Chinese province lying between Mongolia and Corea, with the Amur River
on the N. and the Yellow Sea on the S., is five times the size of England and Wales; the northern,
central, and eastern parts are mountainous; the Sungari is the largest river; the soil is fertile,
producing large crops of millet, maize, hemp, &c., but the climate in winter is severe; pine
forests abound; the country is rich in gold, silver, coal, and iron, but they are little wrought;
beans, silk, skins and furs are exported; the imports include textiles, metals, paper, and
opium; the Manchus are the aristocracy of the province; Chinese settlers are industrious and
prosperous; the chief towns are Moukden (250) in the S., Kirin (75) on the Sungari, and New-Chwang
(60) on the Liao River, a treaty-port since 1858; Russian influence predominates in the province
since 1890.

MANDÆANS, a community found working as skilled artisans in the Persian province of Khuzistan,
and in Basra on the Euphrates; are a religious sect; called also Sabians, and holding tenets
gathered from Christian, Jewish, and heathen sources, resembling those of the ancient Gnostics;
their priesthood admits women; their chief rite is baptism, and hence their old name, Christians
of St. John the Baptist.

MANDALAY (189), capital of Upper Burma, on the Irawadi, in the centre of the country, 360 m.
N. of Rangoon; was seized by the British in 1885. The Aracan Pagoda, with a brazen image of
the Buddha, attracts many pilgrims, and Buddhist monasteries cluster outside the town. There
are silk-weaving, gold, silver, ivory, and wood work, gong-casting and sword-making industries.
Great fires raged in it in 1886 and 1892.

MANDARIN, the name given by foreigners, derived from the Portuguese, signifying to "command,"
to Chinese official functionaries, of which there are some nine orders, distinguished by the
buttons on their caps, and they are appointed chiefly for their possession of the requisite
qualifications for the office they aspire to.

MANDEVILLE, BERNARD DE, a cynical writer, born at Dordrecht, Holland; bred to medicine; came
to London to practise; wrote in racy English the "Fable of the Bees," intended to show, as
Stopford Brooke says, how the "vices of society are the foundation of civilisation," or as
Professor Saintsbury says, how "vice makes some bees happy, and virtue makes them miserable";
the latter calls him "The Diogenes of English Philosophy"; he affirmed that "private vices
are public benefits," and reduced virtue into a form of selfishness; his satire is directed
against the ethics of SHAFTESBURY (q. v.) (1670-1733).

MANDEVILLE, SIR JOHN, English adventurer, named of St. Albans, who from his own account travelled
over thirty years in the East, and wrote a narrative of the marvels he experienced in a book
of voyages and travels published in 1356; the authorship of this book has been questioned,
but on this point there is no doubt that, as Professor Saintsbury says, "it is the first book
of belles-lottres in English prose."

MANDINGOES, a negro race in Senegambia, and farther inland around the Quorra; are numerous
and powerful, and arranged in separate nationalities so to speak.

MANES, the general name given by the Romans to the departed spirits of good men, who are conceived
of as dwelling in the nether world, and as now and again ascending to the upper.

MANES, MANI, or MANICHÆANS, the founder of the MANICHÆANS (q. v.), a native of Persia, and
who died A.D. 274.

MANETHO, an Egyptian priest and historian, of the 3rd century B.C.; wrote a history of Egypt
in Greek, derived from study of sacred monumental inscriptions, which is extant only in fragments.

MANFRED, king of the Two Sicilies, son of the Emperor Frederick II., who had to struggle for
his birthright with three Popes, Innocent IV., Alexander IV., and Urban IV., the last of whom
having excommunicated him, as his predecessors had done, and bestowed his dominions on Charles
of Anjou, in conflict with whom at Benevento he fell, and who denied him Christian burial,
though his nobles pled with him to grant it (1231-1266).

MANFRED, COUNT, hero of a poem of Byron's; sold himself to the Prince of Darkness; lived in
solitude on the Alps, estranged from all sympathy with others, and was carried off in the end
by the master whom he had served.

MANHATTAN, a long island at the mouth of the Hudson, on which a great part of New York stands.

MANICHÆISM, the creed which ascribes the created universe to two antagonistic principles, the
one essentially good--God, spirit, light; the other essentially evil--the devil, matter, darkness;
and this name is applied to every system founded on the like dualism. Mani, the founder of
it, appears to have borrowed his system in great part from Zoroaster.

MANILA (270), capital of the Philippine Islands; at the head of a great bay on the W. coast
of Luzon; is hot, but not unhealthy; suffers severely from storms and earthquakes, and is largely
built of wood. It has a cathedral, university, and observatory. Its only industry is cigar-making,
but the exports include also manila hemp, sugar, and coffee. The population, chiefly Tagals,
includes 25,000 Chinese, many Spaniards and Europeans. In the Spanish-American War of 1898
Admiral Dewey captured the city.

MANIN, DANIEL, an illustrious Italian patriot, born at Venice, of Jewish birth; bred for the
bar, and practised at it; became President of the Venetian Republic in 1848, and was one of
the most distinguished opponents of the domination of Austria; died at Paris, a teacher of
Italian (1804-1857).

MANITO`BA (193), a partially developed inland province of Canada, somewhat larger than England
and Wales; is square in shape, with the United States on its S. border, Assiniboia on the W.,
Saskatchewan and Keewatin on the N., and Ontario on the E.; a level prairie and arable country,
scantily wooded but well watered, having three large lakes, Winnipeg, Winnipegosis, and Manitoba,
and three large rivers, Assiniboine, Souris, and Red River. The climate is dry and healthy,
though subject to great extremes of temperature; comparatively little snow falls; the soil
is very fertile; mixed farming, dairy, cattle, and sheep farming are carried on successfully.
Land is cheap, and the government still makes free grants of 160-acre lots. There is no mineral
wealth; coal is found in the S.; fishing is pursued on the lakes and rivers. Constituted a
province in 1870, Manitoba was the scene of the Riel rebellion, quelled that same year. The
government is vested in a lieutenant-governor, an executive council, and a single chamber of
40 members. In the Dominion Government the province is represented by four members of Senate
and five members of the Commons. The capital is Winnipeg (26), the seat of a university and
of extensive flour-mills. The other chief towns are Brandon (4), a market town, and Portage-la-Prairie
(4), with a brewery, flour, and paper mills.

MANITOU, among the North American Indians an animal revealed to the head of a tribe as the
guardian spirit of it, and an object of sacred regard. See TOTEMISM.

MANLIUS, CAPITOLINUS, a Roman hero who, in 390 B.C., saved Rome from an attack of the Gauls,
and who was afterwards for treason thrown down the Tarpeian Rock.

MANN, HORACE, American educationist, born in Massachusetts; was devoted to the cause of education
as well as that of anti-slavery (1790-1859).

MANNA, the food with which the Israelites were miraculously fed in the wilderness, a term which
means "What is this?" being the expression of surprise of the Israelites on first seeing it.

MANNHEIM (79), on the right bank of the Rhine, 55 m. above Mainz; the chief commercial centre
of Baden; has manufactures of tobacco, india-rubber, and iron goods, and a growing river trade.
An old historical city, it was formerly capital of the Rhenish Palatinate, and a resort of
Protestant refugees.

MANNING, HENRY EDWARD, cardinal, born in Hertfordshire; Fellow of Merton, Oxford, and a leader
in the Tractarian Movement there; became rector in Sussex; married, and became Archdeacon of
Chichester; his wife being dead, and dissatisfied with the state of matters in the Church of
England, in 1851 joined the Church of Rome, became Archbishop of Westminster in 1865, and Cardinal
in 1875; took interest in social matters as well as the Catholic propaganda; a too candid "Life"
has been written of him since his decease, which has created much controversy (1808-1892).

MANS, LE (53), capital of French department of Sarthe, on the river Sarthe, 170 m. SW. of Paris;
has a magnificent cathedral; is an important railway centre, and has textile and hosiery factories.
It was the scene of a great French defeat in January 1871.

MANSARD, the name of two French architects, born in Paris--FRANÇOIS, who constructed the Bank
of France (1598-1666), and JULES HARDOUN, his grand-nephew, architect of the dome of the Invalides
and of the palace and chapel of Versailles (1645-1708).

MANSEL, HENRY LONGUEVILLE, dean of St. Paul's, born in Northamptonshire; wrote admirably on
philosophical and religious subjects, and was a doughty adversary in controversy both with
Mill and Maurice; he was a follower in philosophy of SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON (q. v.) (1820-1871).

MANSFIELD (16), market-town of Notts, 14 m. N. of Nottingham, in the centre of a mining district,
with iron and lace-thread manufactures.

MANSFIELD, WILLIAM MURRAY, EARL OF, Lord Chief-Justice of England, born in Perth, called to
the bar in 1730; distinguished himself as a lawyer, entered Parliament in 1743, and became
Solicitor-General, accepted the chief-justiceship in 1756; was impartial as a judge, but unpopular;
raised to the peerage in 1776, and resigned his judgeship in 1789 (1704-1793).

MANSFIELD COLLEGE, Oxford, a theological college established there for the education of students
intended for the Nonconformist ministry, though open to other classes; the buildings were opened
in 1889.

MANSION HOUSE, the official residence of the Lord Mayor of London, erected in 1739 at a cost
of £42,638, with a banqueting-room capable of accommodating 400 guests.

MANTEGNA, ANDREA, an Italian painter and engraver, born at Padua; his works were numerous,
did atlas pieces and frescoes, his greatest "The Triumph of Cæsar"; he was a man of versatile
genius, was sculptor and poet as well as painter, and his influence on Italian art was great
(1430-1504).

MANTELL, GIDEON, an eminent English geologist and palæontologist, born at Lewes, in Sussex;
wrote "The Wonders of Geology," "Thoughts on a Pebble," &c.; he was a voluminous author, and
distinguished for his study of fossils (1790-1852).

MANTEUFFEL, BARON VON, field-marshal of Germany, born in Dresden; entered the Prussian army
in 1827, rose rapidly, and took part in all the wars from 1866 to 1872, and was appointed viceroy
at the close of the last in Alsace-Lorraine, a rather unhappy appointment, as it proved (1809-1885).

MANTRA, the name given to hymns from the Veda, the repetition of which are supposed to have
the effect of a charm.

MANTUA (28), the strongest fortress in Italy, in SE. Lombardy, on two islands in the river
Mincio, 83 m. E. of Milan, is a somewhat gloomy and unhealthy town, with many heavy mediæval
buildings; there are saltpetre refineries, weaving and tanning industries. Virgil was born
here in 70 B.C. The town was Austrian in the 18th century, but ceded to Italy 1866.

MANTUAN SWAN, a name given to the Roman poet Virgil, from his having been a native of Mantua,
in N. Italy.

MANU, CODE OF, one of the sacred books of the Hindus, in which is expounded the doctrine of
Brahminism, inculcating "sound, solid, and practical morality," and containing evidence of
the progress of civilisation among the Aryans from their first establishment in the valley
of the Ganges. Manu, the alleged author, appears to have been a primitive mythological personage,
conceived of as the ancestor and legislator of the human race, and as having manifested himself
through long ages in a series of incarnations.

MANZONI, ALESSANDRO, Italian poet and novelist, born at Milan; began a sceptic, but became
a devout Catholic; wrote a volume of hymns, entitled "Inni Sacri," and a tragedy, "Adelchi,"
his masterpiece, and admired by Goethe, as also a prose fiction, "I Promessi Sposi," which
spread his name over Europe; in 1860 was made a senator of the kingdom of Italy, and was visited
by Garibaldi in 1862; he was no less distinguished as a man than as an author (1780-1875).

MAORIS, the natives of New Zealand, a Polynesian race numbering 40,000, who probably displaced
an aboriginal; are distinguished for their bravery; are governed by chiefs, and speak a rich
sonorous language; they are the most vigorous and energetic of all the South Sea islanders.

MAR, a district in S. Aberdeenshire, between the Don and the Dee, has given a title to many
earls; one was regent of Scotland in 1572, another, nicknamed "Bobbing Joan," led the Jacobite
rising of 1715; on the death without issue of the earl in 1866 the question of succession was
at issue; the Committee of Privileges granted it to his cousin, the Earl of Kellie, thereafter
Mar and Kellie, and a Bill in Parliament awarding it to his nephew, who is thus Earl of Mar.

MARABOUTS, a sect of religious devotees of a priestly order much venerated in North Africa,
believed to possess supernatural power, particularly in curing diseases, and exercising at
times considerable political influence; their supernatural power appears to come to them by
inheritance.

MARACAYBO (34), a Venezuelan town and fortress on the W. shore of the outlet of Lake Maracaybo;
has handsome streets and buildings, and exports coffee and valuable woods; the lake of Maracaybo
is a large fresh-water lake in the W. of Venezuela, connected with the Gulf of Maracaybo by
a wide strait, across which stretches an effective bar.

MARANATHA (lit. the Lord cometh to judge), a form of anathema in use among the Jews.

MARAÑON, one of the head-waters of the Amazon, rising in Lake Lauricocha, Peru, and flowing
N. and E. till it joins the Ucayali and forms the Amazon; the name is sometimes given to the
whole river.

MARATHON, a village, 22 m. NE. of Athens, on the sea border of a plain where the Greeks under
Miltiades on a world-famous occasion defeated the Persians under Darius in 480 B.C.; the plain
on which the battle was fought extends between mountains on the W. and the sea on the E.

MARBURG (13), quaint university town of Hesse-Nassau, on the Lahn, 40 m. NE. of Limburg; has
many old buildings; its Gothic church contains St. Elizabeth's tomb; Luther and Zwingli held
a conference in the castle, 1529; William Tyndale and Patrick Hamilton were students at its
university, which has now 97 teachers, 1000 students, and a fine library.

MARCEAU, French general, born at Chartres; distinguished himself in the Republican army in
La Vendée and Fleurus, and was killed at Altenkirchen when covering a retreat of the French
army (1760-1796).

MARCELLO, BENEDETTO, an Italian musical composer; composed music for an Italian version of
the Psalms (1686-1739).

MARCELLUS, CLAUDIUS, Roman general; in a war with the Gauls killed their chief Viridomarus
with his own hands, whose spoils he dedicated as SPOLIA OPIMA (q. v.) to Jupiter; took Syracuse,
which long baffled him through the skill of Archimedes, and fell fighting against Hannibal
208 B.C.; he was five times consul though but of plebeian birth.

MARCELLUS, MARCUS, son of Octavia, the sister of Augustus, who had named him his heir; his
decease at 20 was mourned as a public calamity, and inspired Virgil to pen his well-known lament
over his death in the sixth book of the "Æneid."

MARCET, MRS. JANE, authoress, born at Geneva; married a Swiss doctor settled in London; wrote
elementary text-books on chemistry (from which Faraday gained his first knowledge), political
economy, natural philosophy, &c., under the title "Conversations," and her best work, "Stories
for very Little Children" (1769-1858).

MARCH, the third month of our year; was before 1752 reckoned first month as in the Roman calendar,
the legal year beginning on the 25th; it is proverbially dusty and stormy, and is the season
of the spring equinox; it was dedicated to the Roman god Mars, whence the name.

MARCHAND, MAJOR, a French emissary in Africa; was sent in 1890 to explore the sources of the
Niger and other districts, and was afterwards appointed to push on to the Nile, where he arrived
in 1898, hoisting the French flag by the way, and finally at Fashoda, from which he was recalled;
with extreme disgust he was obliged to retire and find his way back to France; b. 1863.

MARCION, a heretic of the 2nd century, born at Sinope, in Pontus, who, convinced that the traditional
records of Christianity had been tampered with, sought to restore Christianity to its original
purity, taking his stand on the words of Christ and the interpretation of St. Paul as the only
true apostle; he held that an ascetic life was of the essence of Christianity, and he had a
following called Marcionites.

MARCUS AURELIUS. See ANTONINUS.

MAREMMA, a malarial coast district of Italy, N. of the Campagna, stretching from Orbitello
to Guardistallo, with few villages or roads. Part of it was improved by draining and planting
(1824-44), and the inhabitants come down from the neighbouring Apennine slopes in summer to
cultivate it; healthier in winter, it affords good pasturage.

MARENGO, a village of N. Italy, SE. of Alessandria, where Napoleon defeated the Austrians on
14th June 1800.

MAREOTIS, LAKE, a lagune in the N. of Egypt, 40 m. long by 18 m. broad, separated from the
Mediterranean by a tongue of land on which part of Alexandria is situated.

MARGARET, queen of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, was the daughter of Waldemar IV. of Denmark,
whose crown, on his death in 1375, she received in trust for her son Olaf; her husband, Hacon
VIII. of Norway, died in 1380, and left her queen; Olaf died 1387, when she named her grand-nephew,
Eric of Pomerania, her heir; the Swedes deposed their king next year, and offered Margaret
the throne; she accepted it, put down all resistance, and ultimately brought about the Union
of Calmar (1397), which provided for the perpetual union of the three crowns; her energy and
force of character won for her the title of "Semiramis of the North" (1353-1412).

MARGARET, a simple, innocent girl in Goethe's "Faust," who is the victim of a tragic fatality;
Faust meets her as she comes from church, falls in love with her, and seduces her; she slays
the infant born, is convicted and condemned to death, and loses her reason; Faust would fain
save her, but he is hurried away by Mephistopheles, and she is left to her fate.

MARGARET, ST., the type of female innocence, represented as a beautiful young maiden bearing
the palm and crown of a martyr and attended by a dragon; is patron saint against the pains
of childbirth. Festival, July 20.

MARGARET, ST., queen of Scotland, wife of Malcolm Canmore, and sister of Edgar Atheling, born
in Hungary; brought up at the court of Edward the Confessor; after the conquest sought refuge
in Scotland, and winning the heart of the Scotch king, was married to him at Dunfermline; was
a woman of beautiful character and great piety, and did much to civilise the country by her
devotion and example; she died in Edinburgh Castle, and was in 1250 canonised by Innocent IV.;
Lanfranc had been her spiritual instructor (1047-1093).

MARGARET OF ANGOULÊME, queen of Navarre, Sister of Francis I., married in 1527 Henri d'Albret,
king of Navarre, by whom she became the mother of JEANNE D'ALBRET (q. v.); protected the Protestants,
and encouraged learning and the arts; she left a collection of novels, under the name of "Heptameron,"
and a number of interesting letters, as well as some poems (1492-1549).

MARGARET OF ANJOU, queen of Henry VI. of England, and daughter of the good King René of Anjou;
was distinguished for the courage she displayed during the Wars of the Roses, though, after
a struggle of nearly twenty years, she was defeated at Tewkesbury and committed to the Tower,
from which, after four years of incarceration, she was afterwards released by ransom (1429-1482).

MARGARET OF VALOIS, third daughter of Henry II. of France and Catherine de' Medicis; married
Henry IV., by whom she was divorced for her immoral conduct (1552-1615).

MARGATE (18), seaport and watering-place, 3 m. W. of the North Foreland, Kent, is with its
firm sands, bathing facilities, and various attractions a favourite resort of London holiday-makers.
Its church-tower, 135 ft., is a prominent landmark. There are large almshouses and orphanages,
and other charitable institutions; J. M. W. Turner was at school here.

MARHEINECKE, a German theologian, born at Hildesheim; professor successively at Erlangen, Heidelberg,
and Berlin; was a Hegelian in philosophy; his chief works, a "System of Catholicism" and a
"History of the German Reformation" (1780-1846).

MARIA LOUISA, empress of France, daughter of Francis I., Emperor of Austria; was married to
Napoleon in 1810 after the divorce of Joséphine, and bore him a son, who was called King of
Rome; after Napoleon's death she became the wife of Count von Neipperg (1791-1847).

MARIA THERESA, empress of Austria, daughter of the Emperor Charles VI., a queenly woman; was
in 1736 married to Francis of Lorraine; ascended the throne in 1740 on the death of her father,
associating her husband with her in the government under the title of Francis I.; no sooner
had she done so than, despite the PRAGMATIC SANCTION (q. v.), which assured her of her dominions
in their integrity, she was assailed by claimants one for this and one for another portion
of them, in particular by Frederick the Great, who by force of arms wrenched Silesia from her
and kept it fast; the war thus occasioned is known as the war of the Austrian Succession, which
lasted seven years, and was concluded by the Peace of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748; this peace,
however, was soon broken, and Maria, backed by France and counselled by Kaunitz, renewed hostilities
in the hope of compelling Frederick to restore what he had taken; all in vain, for the end
of this war, known as the Seven Years' War, was to leave Frederick still in possession of the
territory which he had sliced from her empire as in the former; in the interim of these wars
Maria devoted her attention to the welfare of her subjects, who were conspicuously loyal to
her, and before the end of her reign she saw what she had lost made up to her in a measure
by the partition of Poland, in which she took part (1717-1780).

MARIAMNE, the wife of Herod the Great, whom he put to death on suspicion of her unfaithfulness.

MARIANA, JUAN, Spanish historian and political philosopher, born at Talavera; joined the Jesuits
in 1554, and taught in their colleges in Rome, Sicily, and Paris; returning to Toledo he gave
himself to literature; his "History of Spain" appeared in 1592 and 1605, theological writings
incurred persecution, and his greatest work, "De Rege et Regis Institutione," in which he defended
the right of the people to cast out a tyrant, was condemned by the general of his order (1536-1624).

MARIE ANTOINETTE, queen of France, fourth daughter of Maria Theresa; was married in 1770 to
the dauphin of France, who in 1774 succeeded to the throne as Louis XVI.; was a beautiful woman,
but indiscreet in her behaviour; had made herself unpopular and impotent for good when the
Revolution broke out; when matters became serious the queenliness of her nature revealed itself,
but it was in haughty defiance of the million-headed monster that was bellowing at her feet;
the heroism she showed at this crisis the general mass of the people could not appreciate,
though it won the homage of such men as Mirabeau and Barnave; all she wanted was a wise adviser,
for she had courage to follow any course which she could be persuaded to see was right; in
Mirabeau she had one who could have guided her, but by his death in 1791 she was left to herself,
and the course she took was fatal to all the interests she had at heart; fatality followed
fatality: first she saw her husband hurried off to the guillotine, and then she followed herself;
hers, if any, was the most tragic of fates, and any one who has read that heart-moving apostrophe
to her by Carlyle on the way to her doom must know and feel that it was her fate; she and her
husband suffered as the representatives of the misgovernment of France for centuries before
they were born, and were left a burden on their shoulders which they could not bear and under
which they were crushed to death (1756-1793).

MARIE DE FRANCE, a poetess and fabulist of Henry III.'s time; her fables are translations into
French from an English version of old Greek tales; a greater work was her "Laïs," consisting
of 12 or 14 beautiful narratives in French verse.

MARIE DE' MEDICI, daughter of the Grand-Duke of Tuscany, born at Florence; was married to Henry
IV. of France in 1600, with whom she lived unhappily till his murder in 1610; she was then
regent for seven years; in 1617 her son assumed power as Louis XIII.; she was for two years
banished from the court, and on her return so intrigued as to bring about her imprisonment
in 1631; though a lover of art she was neither good wife nor good queen, and escaping from
confinement she died in destitution at Cologne (1573-1642).

MARIENBAD, a high-lying Bohemian watering-place, 18 m. S. of Carlsbad; it is much frequented
for its saline springs.

MARIETTE PASHA, FRANÇOIS AUGUSTE FERDINAND, Egyptologist, born at Boulogne; became professor
in the college there in 1841, entered the Egyptian department of the Louvre in 1849, and next
year set out for Egypt; eight years later he was made keeper of the monuments to the Egyptian
government, and in 1879 was made a pasha; he died at Cairo; he made many valuable discoveries
and excavations, among which were the burial-place of the Apis bulls, the Sphinx monument,
and many temples (1821-1881).

MARIO, GIUSEPPE, a celebrated tenor, born in Cagliari; acquired a large fortune as a professional
singer, but lost it through unsuccessful speculations; in the circumstances a concert was given
in London for his benefit which realised £1000; he was a handsome man and of charming manners
(1808-1883).

MARIOTTE, EDME, a French physicist, born at Dijon; discoverer of the law named after him, that
the volume of a gas is inversely as the pressure; called also Boyle's; it bears the name of
Mariotte's law on the Continent, and Boyle's in England (1620-1684).

MARIUS, CAIUS, a celebrated Roman general, born near Arpinum, uncle by marriage to Julius Cæsar
and head of the popular party, and the rival of Sulla; conquered the Teutons and the Cimbri
in Gaul, and made a triumphal entry into Rome; having obtained command of the war against Mithridates,
Sulla marched upon the city and drove his rival beyond the walls; having fled the city, he
was discovered hiding in a marsh, cast into prison, and condemned to die; to the slave sent
to execute the sentence he drew himself haughtily up and exclaimed, "Caitiff, dare you slay
Caius Marius?" and the executioner fled in terror of his life and left his sword behind him;
Marius was allowed to escape; finding his way to Africa, he took up his quarters at Carthage,
but the Roman prætor ordered him off; "Go tell the prætor," he said to the messenger sent,
"you saw Caius Marius sitting a fugitive on the ruins of Carthage"; upon this he took courage
and returned to Rome, and along with Cinna made the streets of the city run with the blood
of the partisans of Sulla; died suddenly (156-88 B.C.).

MARIVAUX, a French dramatist and novelist, born in Paris; was a man of subtle wit, and his
writings reveal it as well as an affectation of style named Marivaudage after him; his fame
rests on his novels rather than his dramas (1688-1763).

MARK, GOSPEL ACCORDING TO, is mainly a narrative of the doings of Christ and of the events
of His life in their historical sequence; moves on at an even pace, abounds in graphic touches,
and adds minute traits as if by an eye-witness; it represents Christ as the Son of man, but
manifesting Himself by such signs and wonders as to show that He was also the Son of God; it
is written for Gentile Christians and not for Jewish, and hence little stress is laid on Old
Testament fulfilments or reference made to those antagonisms to Christianity which had a merely
Jewish root.

MARK, JOHN, the author of the second Gospel, the son of Mary, Barnabas' sister, who ministered
to Christ, and whose house in Jerusalem was a place of resort for the disciples of Christ after
the resurrection; accompanied Paul and his uncle on their first missionary journey, afterwards
accompanied Peter, who calls him "my son," and to him it is thought he is indebted for his
Gospel narrative; he is regarded as the founder of the Coptic Church, and his body is said
to have been buried in Venice, of which he is the patron saint, and the cathedral of which
is named St. Mark's after him; he is represented in Christian art as a man in the prime of
life accompanied by a winged lion, with his Gospel in his left hand and a pen in his right.

MARK ANTONY. See ANTONIUS, MARCUS.

MARK TWAIN. See CLEMENS.

MARKHAM, CLEMENTS ROBERT, traveller and author, born near York, son of a clergyman; served
in the navy from 1844 to 1851, taking part in the Franklin search expedition; 1852-1854 he
spent exploring Peru; he introduced the cinchona plant to India 1860, became secretary to the
Royal Geographical Society 1863, served as geographer to the Abyssinian Expedition of 1867-68,
and was then put at the head of the Geographical department of the India Office; among many
books of travels may be named "The Threshold of the Unknown Region" 1874, and among biographies
"Columbus," 1892; b. 1830.

MARLBOROUGH (9), on the Kennet, 38 m. E. of Bristol, a Wiltshire market-town, with sack and
rope making, brewing, and tanning industries; has an old Norman church, the remains of an old
royal residence, and a college, chiefly for sons of clergymen, founded in 1845.

MARLBOROUGH, JOHN CHURCHILL, DUKE OF, soldier and statesman, born in Devonshire; joined the
Guards as ensign, and served in Tangiers in 1667; sent in command of a company to help Louis
XIV. in his Dutch wars, his courage and ability won him a colonelcy; he married Sarah Jennings
in 1678, and seven years later became Baron Churchill on James II.'s succession; as general
he was employed in putting down Monmouth's rebellion; he seceded to William of Orange in 1688,
and received from him the earldom of Marlborough; he was in disfavour from 1694 till the outbreak
of the Spanish Succession War, in which he gained his great renown; beginning by driving the
Spaniards from the Netherlands in 1702, he won a series of important victories--Blenheim 1704,
Ramillies 1706, Oudenard 1708, and Malplaquet 1709, contributed to enhance the military glory
of England; Queen Anne loaded him with honours; large sums of money, Woodstock estate, Blenheim
Palace, and a dukedom were bestowed on him; his wife was the Queen's closest friend, and the
duke and duchess virtually governed the country, till in 1711 the Queen threw off their influence,
and charges of misappropriation of funds forced him into retirement; he was restored to many
of his offices by George I. in 1714, but for the last six years of his life he sank into imbecility;
one of England's greatest generals, he was also one of her meanest men (1650-1722).

MARLOWE, CHRISTOPHER, English dramatist and poet, precursor of Shakespeare; son of a shoemaker
at Canterbury; besides a love poem entitled "Hero and Leander," he was the author of seven
plays, "Tamburlaine," in two parts, "Doctor Faustus," "The Jew of Malta," "Edward the Second,"
"The Massacre of Paris," and "Dido," the first four being romantic plays, the fifth a chronicle
play, and the last two offering no particular talent; he dealt solely in tragedy, and was too
devoid of humour to attempt comedy; "In Marlowe," says Prof. Saintsbury, "two things never
fail him long--a strange, not by any means impotent, reach after the infinite, and the command
of magnificent verse"; his life was a short one (1564-1593).

MARMONT, Duke of Ragusa and marshal of France, served under Napoleon, and distinguished himself
on many a battlefield; received the title of duke for his successful defence of Ragusa against
the Russians; was present at Wagram, Lützen, Bautzen, and Dresden, but came to terms with the
allies after the taking of Paris, which led to Napoleon's abdication in 1814; obliged to flee
on Napoleon's return, he came back to France and gave his support to the Bourbons; left Memoirs
(1774-1852).

MARMONTEL, JEAN FRANÇOIS, French writer, born at Bort; author of "Les Incas," "Bélesaire,"
and "Contes Moraux;" "was," says Ruskin, "a peasant's son, who made his way into Parisian society
by gentleness, wit, and a dainty and candid literary power; he became one of the humblest yet
honestest, placed scholars at the court of Louis XV., and wrote pretty, yet wise, sentimental
stories in finished French, the sayings and thoughts in them, in their fine tremulous way,
perfect like the blossoming heads of grass in May" (1723-1799).

MARMORA, SEA OF, 175 m. long and 50 broad, lies between Europe and Asia Minor, opening into
the Ægean through the Dardanelles and into the Baltic through the Bosphorus; the Gulf of Ismid
indents the eastern coasts; Marmora, the largest island, has marble and alabaster quarries.

MARNE (435) and HAUTE-MARNE (244), contiguous departments in the N.E. of France, in the upper
basin of the Marne River; in both cereals, potatoes, and wine are the chief products, the best
champagne coming from the N. In the former, capital Châlons-sur-Marne, building stone is quarried;
there are metal works and tanneries; in the latter, capital Chaumont, are valuable iron mines
and manufactures of cutlery and gloves.

MAROCHETTI, BARON, Italian sculptor, born in Turin; after working in Paris, came to this country
in 1848, and executed several public statues, one of the Queen among others (1805-1867).

MARONITES, a sect of Syrian Christians, numbering 200,000, dwelling on the eastern slopes of
Lebanon, where they settled in the 7th century, and who joined the Roman Catholic Church in
1445, while they retain much of their primitive character; they maintained a long sanguinary
rivalry with their neighbours the DRUSES (q. v.).

MAROONS, the name given to wild negro bands in Jamaica and Guiana; those in Jamaica left behind
by the Spaniards on the conquest of the island by the English, 1655, escaped to the hills,
and continued unsubdued till 1795; in Guiana they still maintain independent communities. To
MAROON a seaman is to leave him alone on an uninhabited island, or adrift in a boat.

MAROT, CLEMENT, French poet, born at Cahors; was valet-de-chambre of Margaret of Valois; was
a man of ready wit and a satirical writer, the exercise of which often brought him into trouble;
his poems, which consist of elegies, epistles, rondeaux, madrigals, and ballads, have left
their impress on both the language and the literature of France (1495-1544).

MARPRELATE TRACTS, a series of clever but scurrilous tracts published under the name of Martin
Marprelate, but which are the work of different writers in the time of Elizabeth against prelacy,
and which gave rise to great excitement and some inquisition as to their authorship.

MARQUE. See LETTER OF MARQUE.

MARQUESAS ISLANDS (5), a group of 13 small volcanic mountainous islands in the S. Pacific,
3600 m. W. of Peru, under French protection since 1842, are peopled by a handsome but savage
race, which is rapidly dying out; Chinese immigrants grow cotton; the more southerly were discovered
by Mendaña in 1595, the more northerly by Ingraham, an American, in 1791.

MARROW CONTROVERSY, a theological controversy which arose in Scotland in the 18th century over
the teaching of a book entitled "The Marrow of Modern Divinity," and which led to a secession
from the Established Church on the part of the "Marrow men," as the supporters of the doctrine
of the book were called. It contained an assertion of the evangelical doctrine of free grace,
which was condemned by the Assembly, and for maintaining which the "Marrow men," headed by
the Erskines, were deposed in 1733, to the formation of the Secession Church.

MARRYAT, FREDERICK, novelist, born at Westminster; after service in the royal navy, which he
entered in 1806, and in which he attained the rank of commandant, he retired in 1830, and commenced
a series of novels; "Frank Mildmay," the first, proving a success, he resolved to devote the
rest of his life to literature; his novels were numerous, all of interest for their character
sketches and adventures, and "Peter Simple" and "Midshipman Easy" are reckoned the best; it
was by recourse to Marryat's stories of sea life that Carlyle solaced himself after the burning
of the MS. volume of his "French Revolution," and that he put himself in tune to repair the
loss (1792-1848).

MARS, the exterior planet of the Solar system, nearest the earth, of one-half its diameter,
with a mean distance from the sun of 141,000,000 m., round which it takes 686 days to revolve,
in a somewhat centric orbit, and 24½ hours to revolve on its own axis, which inclines to its
equator at an angle of 29°; examination of it shows that there is four times as much land as
water in it; it is accompanied by two moons, an outer making a revolution round it in 30 hours
18 minutes, and an inner in 7 hours and 38 minutes; they are the smallest heavenly bodies known
to science.

MARS, the Roman god of war, the reputed father of Romulus, and the recognised protector of
the Roman State, identified at length with the Greek Ares.

MARSEILLAISE, THE, the hymn or march of the French republicans, composed, both words and music,
at Strasburg by Rouget de Lisle one night in April 1792, and singing which the 600 volunteers
from Marseilles entered Paris on the 30th July thereafter.

MARSEILLES (321), third city and first seaport of France, on the shore of the Gulf of Lyons,
27 m. E. of the mouth of the Rhône; has extensive dock accommodation; does great trade in wheat,
oil, wine, sugar, textiles, and coal, and manufactures soap, soda, macaroni, and iron; there
is a cathedral, picture-gallery, museum, and library, schools of science and art; founded by
colonists from Asia Minor in 600 B.C., it was a Greek city till 300 B.C.; after the days of
Rome it had many vicissitudes, falling finally to France in 1575, and losing its privilege
as a free port in 1660; always a Radical city, it proclaimed the Commune in 1871; a cholera
plague devastated it in 1885; six years later great sanitary improvements were begun; Thiers
and Puget were born here.

MARSHAL FORWARDS, a name given to BLÜCHER (q. v.) for the celerity of his movements and the
dash of his attack.

MARSHALL, JOHN, an American judge; served in the army during the first years of the American
War; afterwards entered the legal profession and became Chief-Justice of the United States;
was an authority on constitutional law (1755-1835).

MARSTON, JOHN, English dramatist, so called, was more of a poet than a dramatist, and his dramas
are remembered chiefly for the poetic passages they contain; his masterpiece is a comedy entitled
"What You Will" (1575-1634).

MARSTON, JOHN WESTLAND, dramatist, born at Boston, Lincolnshire; wrote several dramas, "Strathmore"
and "Marie de Méranie" among the number (1819-1890).

MARSTON, PHILIP BOURKE, poet, son of preceding; wrote three volumes of verse, admired by Rossetti
and Swinburne; was blind from boyhood (1850-1887).

MARSTON MOOR, 7 m. W. of York; here Cromwell and Fairfax defeated the Royalists under Prince
Rupert, July 2, 1644, and so won the north of England for the Parliament.

MARSYAS, a Phrygian peasant, who, having found a flute which Athena had thrown away because
playing on it disfigured her face, and which, as still inspired by the breath of the goddess,
yielded sweet tones when he put his lips to it, one day challenged Apollo to a contest, the
condition being that the vanquished should pay whatever penalty the victor might impose on
him; Apollo played on the lyre and the boor on the flute, when the Muses, who were umpires,
assigned the palm to the former; upon this Apollo caught his rival up, bound him to a tree,
and flayed him alive for his temerity.

MARTELLO TOWERS, round towers of strong build, erected as a defence at one time off the low
shores of Sussex and Kent; they are of Italian origin; there is one off the harbour of Leith.

MARTENS, FREDERICK DE, German diplomatist and publicist, born at Hamburg; author of a "Précis
du Droit des Gens" (1756-1821).

MARTENSEN, HANS LASSEN, bishop of Copenhagen, a distinguished theologian; author of "Meister
Eckhart," a study of mediæval mysticism, "Christliche Dogmatic" and "Christliche Ethic"; was
a Hegelian of a conservative type (1808-1884).

MARTHA, ST., the sister of Mary and Lazarus, the patron saint of good housewives, is represented,
in homely costume, with a bunch of keys at her girdle, and a pot in her hand. Festival, July 20.

MARTIAL, a Latin poet, born at Bilbilis, in Spain; went to Rome, stayed there, favoured of
the emperors Titus and Domitian, for 35 years, and then returned to his native city, where
he wrote his Epigrammata, a collection of short poems over 1500 in number, divided into 14
books, books xiii. and xiv. being entitled respectively Xenia and Apophoreta; these epigrams
are distinguished for their wit, diction, and indecency, but are valuable for the light they
shed on the manners of Rome at the period (43-104).

MARTIAL LAW, law administered by military force, to which civilians are amenable during an
insurrection or riot.

MARTIN, the name of five popes: M. I., ST., Pope from 649 to 655; M. II., pope from 882 to
884; M. III., Pope from 942 to 946; M. IV., pope from 1281 to 1285; M. V., Pope from 1417 to
1431, distinguished for having condemned Huss to be burned.

MARTIN, AIMÉ, a French writer, born at Lyons, repaired to Paris, became the pupil and friend
of Bernardin de St. Pierre; collected his works and married his widow; his letters to Sophia
on "Natural History," &c., highly popular (1781-1844).

MARTIN, HENRI, celebrated French historian, born at Saint-Quentin; devoted his life to the
study of the history of France; wrote an account of it, entitled "Histoire de France," a magnificent
work in 19 volumes; brought the history down to 1789, and received from the Institute 20,000
francs as a prize (1810-1885).

MARTIN, JOHN, English painter, born near Hexham; was an artist of an ardent temperament and
extraordinary imaginative power; his paintings, the first "Sadak in Search of the Waters of
Oblivion," characterised as "sublime" and "gorgeous," were 16 in number, and made a great impression
when produced; engravings of some of them are familiar, such as the "Fall of Babylon" and "Belshazzar's
Feast" (1789-1854).

MARTIN, LADY. See FAUCIT, HELEN.

MARTIN, ST., bishop of Tours, was in early life a soldier, and meeting with a naked beggar
one cold day in winter divided his military cloak in two, and gave him the half of it; was
conspicuous both as a monk and bishop for his compassion on the poor; seated at a banquet on
one occasion between the king and queen, hobnobbed with a poor beggar looking on, and extended
his goblet of wine to him; he is the patron saint of topers; d. 397. Festival, November 11.

MARTIN, SARAH, a philanthropist, born at Great Yarmouth; lived by dressmaking, and devoted
much of her time among criminals in the jails (1791-1843).

MARTIN, SIR THEODORE, man of letters, born in Edinburgh; acquired his first fame under the
pseudonym of Bon Gaultier; is author of the "Life of the late Prince Consort"; wrote along
with Aytouna "Book of Ballads," and translated the Odes of Horace, Dante's "Vita Nuova" and
Goethe's "Faust"; b. 1816.

MARTINEAU, HARRIET, English authoress, born at Norwich; a lady with little or no genius but
with considerable intellectual ability, and not without an honest zeal for the "progress of
the species"; she was what is called an "advanced" thinker, and was a disciple of Auguste Comte;
wrote a number of stories bearing on social questions, and had that courage of her opinions
which commanded respect; it was she who persuaded Carlyle to try lecturing when his finances
were low, and she had a real pride at the success of the scheme (1802-1876).

MARTINEAU, JAMES, rationalistic theologian, born in Norwich, brother of the preceding; began
life as an engineer, took to theology, and became a Unitarian minister; was at first a follower
of Bentham and then a disciple of Kant; at one time a materialist he became a theist, and a
most zealous advocate of theistic beliefs from the Unitarian standpoint; he is a thinker of
great power, and has done much both to elevate and liberate the philosophy of religion; his
views are liberal as well as profound, and he is extensively known as the author of the "Endeavours
after the Christian Life" and "Hours of Thought on Sacred Things"; b. 1805.

MARTINIQUE (176, of which a few are white), a West Indian French possession, one of the Lesser
Antilles; has a much-indented precipitous coast; a mountain range in the centre is densely
wooded; the plains are fertile, and produce sugar, coffee, and cotton, which with fruit are
the exports; the climate is hot and not salubrious; the island has been French, with three
short intervals, since 1635.

MARTYN, HENRY, a Christian missionary, born at Truro, in Cornwall; was a Fellow of St. John's
College, Cambridge; went to India as a chaplain, settled in various stations and in Persia;
translated the New Testament into Hindi and Persian, as well as the Prayer-book; fell into
broken health; did more than he was able for, caught fever and died (1781-1812).

MARVELL, ANDREW, poet and politician, born at Worcester; was first a lyric poet, and in politics
much of a Royalist, at last a violent politician on the Puritan side, having become connected
with Milton and Cromwell; he wrote a tract "On the Growth of Popery and Arbitrary Government
in England" after the Restoration, which brought him into trouble; being a favourite with the
king, the king sought to bribe him, but he could not be caught; he died suddenly, and an unfounded
rumour was circulated that he had been poisoned (1621-1678).

MARX, KARL, a German Socialist, born at Trèves, of Jewish descent; was at first a student of
philosophy and a disciple of Hegel, but soon abandoned philosophy for social economy on a democratic
basis and in a materialistic interest, early adopted socialistic opinions, for his zeal in
which he was driven from Germany, France, and finally Belgium, to settle in London, where he
spent the last 30 years of his life; founded the "INTERNATIONAL" (q. v.), and wrote a work
"Das Kapital," which has become the text-book of Socialism, a remarkable book, and one that
has materially promoted the cause it advocates (1818-1866).

MARY, THE VIRGIN. Of her we know nothing for certain except what is contained in the Gospel
history, and that almost exclusively in her relation to her Son, in connection with whom, and
as His mother, she has become an object of worship in the Roman Catholic and Greek Churches.

MARY I., queen of England, was born at Greenwich, daughter of Henry VIII. and Catharine of
Aragon; at first the king's favourite, on her mother's divorce she was treated with aversion;
during her brother Edward VI.'s reign she lived in retirement, clinging to her Catholic faith;
on her accession in 1553 a Protestant plot to put Lady Jane Grey on the throne failed; she
began cautiously to restore Catholicism, imprisoning Reformers and reinstating the old bishops;
on her choosing Philip of Spain for her husband a revolt broke out under Sir Thomas Wyatt,
and though easily put down was the occasion for the execution of Lady Jane Grey and the imprisonment
of Elizabeth; after her marriage in 1554 the religious reaction gained strength, submission
was made to Rome, and a persecution began in which 300 persons, including Latimer, Ridley,
and Cranmer, perished in three years; ill-health, Philip's cruelty, and her childlessness drove
her to melancholy; a war with France led to the loss of Calais in 1558, and she died broken-hearted,
a virtuous and pious, but bigoted and relentless woman (1516-1558).

MARY II., queen of England, daughter of the Duke of York (afterwards James II.) and Anne Hyde;
was married to her cousin William of Orange in 1677, ascended the English throne along with
him on her father's abdication in 1688, and till her death was his much loved, good, and gentle
queen; Greenwich Hospital for disabled sailors, which she built, is her memorial (1662-1694).

MARY, QUEEN OF SCOTS, daughter of James V. and Mary of Lorraine, born at Linlithgow, became
by her father's death queen ere she was a week old; her early childhood was spent on an island
in the Lake of Menteith; she was sent to France in 1548, brought up at court with the royal
princes, and married to the dauphin in 1558, who for a year, 1559-60, was King Francis II.;
on his death she had to leave France; she returned to assume the government in Scotland, now
in the throes of the Reformation; refraining from interference with the Protestant movement
she retained her own Catholic faith, but chose Protestant advisers; out of many proposed alliances
she elected, against all advice, to be married to her cousin Darnley 1565, and easily quelled
the insurrection that broke out under Moray; Darnley, granted the title king, tried to force
her to settle the succession in the event of her dying childless on him and his heirs; deeming
her favourite Rizzio to stand in the way, he plotted with the Protestant Lords to have him
murdered, and Mary was reduced to agree to his demands; the murder was done; the queen was
for a time a prisoner in Holyrood, but she succeeded in detaching Darnley, and the scheme fell
through; her only son, afterwards James VI., was born three months later in 1566; the murder
of Darnley took place in February 1567, being accomplished by Hepburn, Earl of Bothwell, almost
certainly with Mary's connivance; her marriage with Bothwell in May alienated the nobles; they
rose, took the queen prisoner at Carberry, carried her to Edinburgh, then to Loch Leven, where
they forced her to abdicate in July; next year, escaping, she fled to England, and was there
for many years a prisoner; Catholic plots were formed to liberate her and put her in place
of Elizabeth on the English throne (she was next in order of succession, being great-granddaughter
of Henry VII.); at last she was accused of complicity in Babbington's conspiracy, tried, found
guilty, and executed in Fotheringhay Castle, February 8, 1587; faithful to her religion to
the end; she was a woman of great beauty and charm, courage and ability, warm affection and
generous temper (1542-1587).

MARYLAND (1,042), a State of the American Union, occupying the basin of the Potomac and of
Chesapeake Bay, with Pennsylvania on the N., Delaware on the E., and the Virginias on the W.
and S.; has a much indented coast-line affording great facilities for navigation; the soil
is throughout fertile; on the level coast plains tobacco and fruit, chiefly peaches, are grown;
in the undulating central land wheat; the mountains in the W. are well wooded with pine; there
are coal-mines in the W., copper and chrome in the midland, and extensive marble quarries;
the shad and herring fisheries are valuable; the manufactures of clothing stuffs, flour, tobacco,
and beer are extensive; the climate of Maryland is temperate and genial; education is free,
and advanced; the John Hopkins University is in Baltimore; there is a State college in every
county, and schools for blind, deaf, and feeble-minded children; colonisation began in 1634,
and a policy of religious toleration and peace with the Indians led to prosperity; the State
was active in the War of Independence, and remained with the North in the Civil War; the capital
is Annapolis (8), but the largest city is Baltimore (434), a great wheat-shipping port and
centre of industry; Cumberland (13) has brick and cement works, and Hagerstown (10) has machine,
farm implement, and furniture factories.

MASACCIO, an Italian painter, born in Florence; went when very young to Rome, where he painted
in the church of St. Clement a series of frescoes, his greatest work being the frescoes in
the Brancacci chapel of the Carmine church; he was a great master of perspective and colour
(1402-1443).

MASAI, a warlike tribe in Africa, between the coast of Zanzibar and Victoria Nyanza, of the
race of the Gallas, men of powerful physique, though far from prepossessing in appearance;
when their warlike spirit and prowess are spent they settle down to cattle-breeding.

MASANIELLO, a fisherman of Amalfi, who headed a revolt against the Spanish viceroy in Naples,
which proved successful, but turned his head and led to his assassination (1623-1647).

MASHONALAND, a plateau 4000 ft. high crossed by the Umvukwe Mountains, lying to the NE. of
Matabeleland and S. of the Zambesi River, of which its streams are tributaries; is a fertile
country, and being traversed continually by cold SE. winds is healthy and bracing; the natives,
of Bantu stock, are peaceful and industrious, growing rice, maize, tobacco, and cotton, which
they also weave, and working with skill in iron; they live in dread of the fierce Matabele
tribes; the country is very rich in iron, copper, and gold, and has traces of ancient scientific
gold-mining; it has been under British protection since 1888.

MASK, IRON. See IRON MASK.

MASKELYNE, NEVIL, astronomer-royal, born in London; determined the method of finding longitude
at sea, and the density of the earth by experiments at Schiehallion, and commenced the "National
Almanack," and produced the first volume of "Astronomical Observations at Greenwich" (1732-1811).

MASON, SIR JOSIAH, Birmingham manufacturer and philanthropist, born at Kidderminster; made
his fortune by split rings, steel pens, electro-plating; founded an orphanage at Erdington
at the cost of nearly £300,000, and the college at Birmingham which bears his name (1795-1881).

MASON, WILLIAM, a minor poet, a friend of poet Gray; the author of two tragedies, "Elfrida"
and "Caractacus" (1724-1797).

MASON AND DIXON'S LINE, so called after English engineers who surveyed it 1764-67; is the boundary
separating Maryland from Pennsylvania and Delaware; during the Civil War it was inaccurately
regarded as dividing the slave-holding from the free States, Maryland and Delaware both recognising
slavery.

MASPERO, GASTON CAMILLE CHARLES, French Egyptologist, born at Paris; made extensive explorations
and important discoveries in Egypt; has written, among works bearing on Egypt, "Histoire Ancienne
des Peuples d'Orient"; b. 1846.

MASSACHUSETTS (2,239), a New England State of the American Union, lies on the Atlantic seaboard
between New Hampshire and Vermont on the N. and Rhode Island and Connecticut on the S., with
New York on its western border; has a long irregular coast-line and an uneven surface, rising
to the Green Mountains in the W.; the scenery is of great beauty, but the soil is in many places
poor, the farms raising chiefly hay and dairy produce; the winters are severe; Massachusetts
is the third manufacturing State of the Union; its industries include cotton, woollen, worsted,
clothing, leather and leather goods, iron and iron goods; school education throughout the State
is free and of a high standard; there are several universities and colleges, including Harvard,
Boston, Williams, and Amherst; founded in 1620 by the Pilgrim Fathers, Massachusetts had many
hardships in early days, and was long the scene of religious intolerance and persecution; the
War of Independence began at Bunker's Hill and Lexington in 1776; the capital and chief seaport
is Boston (448); Worcester (85) has machinery factories, Springfield (44) paper, and Lowell
(78) cotton mills; Concord was for long a literary centre.

MASSAGE, in medicine a process of kneading, stroking, and rubbing, with the fingers and palms
of the hands, applied to the body as a whole or to locally affected parts, to allay pain, promote
circulation, and restore nervous and vital energy; it was practised in very early times in
China and India; was known to the Greeks and Romans, and was revived by Dr. Mezger of Amsterdam
in 1853.

MASSAGETÆ, a Scythian people on the NE. of the Caspian Sea, who used to kill and eat the aged
among them, in an expedition against whom, it is said, Cyrus the Great lost his life.

