'I am not what is vulgarly called a Jingo' (hear, hear!) he said finally, 'and measures of
simple aggrandisement, sir, I have never been known to advocate.'

'How about Bechuana?' from Mr. Jacob Bright.

'If the rules of courtesy demanded a reply to that interruption,' said the Prime Minister,
'I would answer,' and he did so for an hour by Shrewsbury clock. He then proceeded:

'But there is a wide difference between annexation necessary to maintain the integrity of our
glorious realm, as in the case of Bechuana, and the annexations so often observed in the policy
of Continental Powers, springing from a mere greed of empire. We may deplore, indeed, that
a preceding Administration has involved us in responsibilities almost beyond the power of statesmen
to grapple with successfully; but that is the habit of preceding Administrations, and now that
such measures are beyond recall we shall not shirk their consequences. The recent annexation
of Mercury by Russia, and the presence in Jupiter of a German emissary, whose ulterior object,
though the Press of that country states him to have gone there solely for the benefit of his
health, cannot be viewed with too much suspicion, make it incumbent on all parties to unite
in speedy measures for the security of our home and colonial interests.' (Ministerial cheers.)
'I am at a loss to conceive,' said a member of the Opposition, rising--and here the irregularity
comes in, for which we can only refer readers to the Owl--'what is the drift of the remarks
we have just listened to. I am no enemy to annexation, as honourable members know well. We
have been annexing ever since we had a rood of land to make annexations to, and it would be
a pity to begin to stop now. But as for occupying a place like the Moon, without water, without
air, without inhabitants--that, sir, appears to me to be adding folly to madness. Is the Government
not content with the proofs of utter imbecility'--(order)--'I will say, of excruciating feebleness,
it has given to the public, that it must squander the resources of the nation for the sake
of a wild-goose chase like this? As for the German envoy, he has gone to Jupiter for the benefit
of a settled climate, and to drink the waters, not to annex a planet which, with the present
indifferent means of communication, could be of no service to his country. This is the simple
explanation, which anybody but an old owl like the Prime Minister--'

'Order, order!' shouted several voices, and the Speaker, rising gravely, called upon the honourable
member to withdraw the epithet of 'old owl' as unparliamentary.

'I withdraw it,' said the member readily. 'I should have said, the gentleman so highly distinguished
for youth and sanity, who has plunged us into oceans of disaster at home and abroad, and, not
content with making the world we live in too hot to hold us, intends to make all the planets
related to us in the Solar System too hot to hold us, as well. He has determined wantonly to
attack a sphere with which we have always maintained the most cordial relations, to invade
its territories, ravage its villages, and introduce the atrocious benefits of Maxim guns and
Gladstone claret to the Selenites.'

'The honourable member observed a moment ago,' said the Prime Minister ironically, 'that there
were no Selenites.'

'So I did,' returned the Opposition member unabashed. 'I am not ashamed of that. If the Moon
has no inhabitants, you can have no commercial relations with the Moon; if it has, you can
only demoralise an unsophisticated population. But I refuse to be held responsible for the
opinions I expressed two minutes ago. I am a true Briton, and I absolutely decline to limit
myself to a single contradiction, or to a dozen, in the course of a quarter of an hour's harangue.'

