       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. RAMSBOTHAM's attention was directed to a letter in the Standard, of June 14, headed:--"Nancy
and the Cambridge Delegates." She supposes that "this is another Spinning House case like that
of DAISY HOPKINS and the Cambridge Undergraduates." Mrs. M. is indignant. "Delegate, indeed!
most in-delegate I call it."

       *       *       *       *       *

INHARMONIOUS COLOURS.--"It is understood," observes the Observer, "that Mrs. BROWNE-POTTER
and Mr. BELLEW part company." Evidently BROWNE and B(EL)LEW don't go well together. Even the
Potter's Art cannot effect a successful blend.

       *       *       *       *       *

A "DEGREE BETTER."--Why should not a bankrupt who has successfully passed his examination be
granted a degree, and add "C.B." ("Certificated Bankrupt") to his name?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SLY OLD SOCRATES!

(A FRAGMENT FROM THE VERY NEWEST "REPUBLIC.")

Thrasymachus-Shiptonides (after introducing a Deputation). What we demand is a legal reduction
of the hours of labour, and what we want of you, SOCRATES, is your invaluable aid in getting it.

Socrates (smiling). Most heartily do I wish you may get it--in both cases. But how say you;
is the principle of permanence in a state or community, or class, best effected by harmony,
or as it were, unity of action in all its members?

All (after looking at each other, and rubbing their chins). How not, SOCRATES?

Socrates (rubbing his hands). Entirely so! And your class then are unanimous in favour of a
legal reduction of the hours of labour?

Thrasymachus-Shiptonides (bothered). Well--ahem!--hardly so, perhaps. But (valiantly), at least
three-quarters of a million who met in the Park gathering at sixteen platforms, were substantially
agreed.

Socrates. Humph! Over forty-six thousand to each platform. That's a far greater number than
even I ever addressed. How did you count them, or ascertain their views?

Thrasymachus-Shiptonides (flustered). Well, I've had twenty years' experience of mob-mustering,
and I think I ought to know.

Polemarchus-Steadmanides. But will you, SOCRATES, give us your opinions of the opinion of these
three-quarters of a million.

Socrates (laughing). By Hercules! that were a task more tremendous than all his Labours.

Cephalus-Pearsonides (aside). By Vulcan, this is his wonted irony. He never inclines to answer
a question forthrightly, but to use irony, or evasion, or what the Hibernians call "shenanigan,"
rather than answer, if anyone asks him anything.

Thrasymachus-Shiptonides (aside, hastily). Yes, yes! But you must not tell him that, here and now!

Socrates (blandly). Friends, as you suggest that the proceedings should be of a conversational
or dialectical nature, a plan which falleth in with my views also, I will, if you please, catechise
you categorically, so as to get further into the interior of the question, and of your--ahem!--minds.

Of this catechising, the reporter gives the following condensed summary.

Do you suggest that I should turn my back on myself? No, that would be rude. Or give myself
away? Nay, that were--unthrifty. Can two solid things occupy the same space at the same time?
By Zeus, no! Home-Rule--a very solid thing--fully occupies my mind--for the present. When a
Gladstone-bag is full, can you put more into it? By Mercury, no! But could you not reconsider
the packing! Not if the contents consist of one article only. You would like me to pack it
with your Eight Hours' Bill? Prodigiously! Your strong personality, would push forward even
a worse thing. How near are you to unanimity? As near as considerable difference of opinion
will allow us to come. Is an unascertained minority to coerce an unwilling majority? Our Council
has not discussed that? Do you know the relative proportions of majority and majority in organised
and unorganised trades; how their respective opinions are to be ascertained, and, if ascertained,
how legally enforced; if, and how, two millions and a half are to commit eleven millions to
certain binding laws, and involve them in legal consequences? No! Yes! Hardly! Not quite! More
or less! Well, we're not quite sure, &c., &c.

Socrates (smiling). Now, tell me, THRASYMACHUS, is this the "harmony, or, as it were, unity
of action," on which only, as we agreed, we could found "the principle of permanency in a state
or community?"

Thrasymachus-Shiptonides (hurriedly). Well, what you say, SOCRATES, is very nice, and clear,
and logical, and conclusive, in an argumentative sense, and your attitude is very noble and
high-and-mighty--I mean highminded and all that. And we're very grateful--but deeply disappointed
that you couldn't say something quite different--in view of the General Election, you know!
(Meaningly.)

Socrates (mildly, but firmly). It is not my political duty to say pleasant things all round,
but to ascertain--and tell--the Truth.

All (deferentially). Well, we are all tremendously thankful! (aside) for small mercies! Logic
scores in argument, but votes tell at the poll. And if we do not run at least a hundred Labour
Candidates to enlighten you as to our "unanimity," call us--items! [Exeunt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Matinées of Peril are advertised at the Haymarket. Most Matinées deserve this description.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARCHDEACON ANSWERED.

    [At the Annual Meeting of the Curates' Augmentation Fund,
    Archdeacon KAYE, of Lincoln, urged the desirability of
    imposing some limitation to the number ordained to the
    Ministry of the Church of England, as three-fifths of the
    Clergy were in poverty.]

  "Oh, sad indeed it is to think,"
    Quoth good Archdeacon KAYE,
  "That though our Clergy are so 'High,'
    So low should be their pay!

  "They fly to money-lenders' lures,
    To speculative chances;
  Advancement they appear to lack.
    And so they get advances.

  "This 'Discipline of Clergy' Bill
    On us is rather rough;
  Surely the bills our tradesmen bring
    Are discipline enough!

  "A fresh supply of Rectories
    Must really soon be found;
  All would be square, if once there were
    Sufficient to go round.

  "To get the Clergy out of their
    Pecuniary holes,
  The sole and only cure I see
    Would be--a Cure of Souls!

  "'One man, one Vicarage!'--the cry
    To stir a thoughtless nation;
  But just at present let us try
    Restricted Ordination!"

  "Free Trade in Curates!" shout our girls,
    Responsive from their pew;
  "You say there are too many, but
    We know there are too few!

  "Think of the budding Candidates
    For Orders, whom, no doubt,
  This limiting of out-put would
    Excessively put out!

  "If Curates now are destitute,
    A brighter future beacons;
  'Tis only fair that all should share
    The stipends of Archdeacons!"

       *       *       *       *       *

J.L.T. (to Dr. Irving). "I SAY, HENRY,--'SCUSE MY GLOVE,--I'VE BEEN A DON MYSELF, DON'TCHERKNOW.
I CAN GIVE YOU A TIP OR TWO ABOUT PLAYING THE PART!"]

       *       *       *       *       *

A GIFTED BEING.--The Daily Telegraph of June 11, in giving us some news from Cambridge about
the Mathematical Tripos, had this paragraph--

    "The Senior Wrangler, Mr. PHILIP HERBERT COWELL, son of Mr.
    H. COWELL, Privy Council Bar, was born in 1870, and was
    previously educated at Rev. E. St. JOHN PARRY's School, Stoke,
    Slough."

