"Wa'al, we've rode together quite a consid'able," said Mr. Harum, "but I hadn't never said
anythin' to him about takin' a turn at the lines. This day we'd got a piece out into the country
an' I had the brown colts. I says to him, 'Ever do any drivin'?"

"'More or less,' he says.

"'Like to take the lines fer a spell?' I says.

"'Yes,' he says, lookin' kind o' pleased, 'if you ain't afraid to trust me with 'em,' he says.

"'Wa'al, I'll be here,' I says, an' handed 'em over. Wa'al, sir, I see jest by the way he took
holt on 'em it wa'n't the fust time, an' we went along to where the road turns in through a
piece of woods, an' the track is narrer, an' we run slap onto one o' them dum'd road-engines
that had got wee-wawed putty near square across the track. Now I tell ye," said Mr. Harum,
"them hosses didn't like it fer a cent, an' tell the truth I didn't like it no better. We couldn't
go ahead fer we couldn't git by the cussed thing, an' the hosses was 'par'ntly tryin' to git
back under the buggy, an', scat my ----! if he didn't straighten 'em out an' back 'em 'round
in that narrer road, an' hardly scraped a wheel. Yes, sir," declared Mr. Harum, "I couldn't
'a' done it slicker myself, an' I don't know nobody that could."

"Guess you must 'a' felt a little ticklish yourself," said Dick sympathetically, laughing as usual.

"Wa'al, you better believe," declared the other. "The' was 'bout half a minute when I'd have
sold out mighty cheap, an' took a promise fer the money. He's welcome to drive any team in
my barn," said David, feeling--in which view Mr. Larrabee shared--that encomium was pretty
well exhausted in that assertion.

"I don't believe," said Mr. Harum after a moment, in which he and his companion reflected upon
the gravity of his last declaration, "that the's any dum thing that feller can't do. The last
thing 's a piany. He's got a little one that stands up on it's hind legs in his room, an' he
c'n play it with both hands 'thout lookin' on. Yes, sir, we have reg'lar concerts at my house
ev'ry Sunday night, admission free, an' childern half price, an'," said David, "you'd ought
to hear him an' Polly sing, an'--he, he, he! you'd ought to see her singin'--tickleder 'n a
little dog with a nosegay tied to his tail."

CHAPTER XXXII.

Our friend's acquaintance with the rector of St. James's church had grown into something like
friendship, and the two men were quite often together in the evening. John went sometimes to
Mr. Euston's house, and not unfrequently the latter would spend an hour in John's room over
a cigar and a chat. On one of the latter occasions, late in the autumn, Mr. Euston went to
the piano after sitting a few minutes and looked over some of the music, among which were two
or three hymnals. "You are musical," he said.

"In a modest way," was the reply.

"I am very fond of it," said the clergyman, "but have little knowledge of it. I wish I had
more," he added in a tone of so much regret as to cause his hearer to look curiously at him.
"Yes," he said, "I wish I knew more--or less. It's the bane of my existence," declared the
rector with a half laugh. John looked inquiringly at him, but did not respond.

"I mean the music--so called--at St. James's," said Mr. Euston. "I don't wonder you smile,"
he remarked; "but it's not a matter for smiling with me."

"I beg pardon," said John.

"No, you need not," returned the other, "but really--Well, there are a good many unpleasant
and disheartening experiences in a clergyman's life, and I can, I hope, face and endure most
of them with patience, but the musical part of my service is a never-ending source of anxiety,
perplexity, and annoyance. I think," said Mr. Euston, "that I expend more nerve tissue upon
that branch of my responsibilities than upon all the rest of my work. You see we can not afford
to pay any of the singers, and indeed my people--some of them, at least--think fifty dollars
is a great sum for poor little Miss Knapp, the organist. The rest are volunteers, or rather,
I should say, have been pressed into the service. We are supposed to have two sopranos and
two altos; but in effect it happens sometimes that neither of a pair will appear, each expecting
the other to be on duty. The tenor, Mr. Hubber, who is an elderly man without any voice to
speak of, but a very devout and faithful churchman, is to be depended upon to the extent of
his abilities; but Mr. Little, the bass--well," observed Mr. Euston, "the less said about him
the better."

"How about the organist?" said John. "I think she does very well, doesn't she?"

"Miss Knapp is the one redeeming feature," replied the rector, "but she has not much courage
to interfere. Hubber is nominally the leader, but he knows little of music." Mr. Euston gave
a sorry little laugh. "It's trying enough," he said, "one Sunday with another, but on Christmas
and Easter, when my people make an unusual effort, and attempt the impossible, it is something
deplorable."

John could not forbear a little laugh. "I should think it must be pretty trying," he said.

"It is simply corroding," declared Mr. Euston.

They sat for a while smoking in silence, the contemplation of his woes having apparently driven
other topics from the mind of the harassed clergyman. At last he said, turning to our friend:

"I have heard your voice in church."

"Yes?"

"And I noticed that you sang not only the hymns but the chants, and in a way to suggest the
idea that you have had experience and training. I did not come here for the purpose," said
Mr. Euston, after waiting a moment for John to speak, "though I confess the idea has occurred
to me before, but it was suggested again by the sight of your piano and music. I know that
it is asking a great deal," he continued, "but do you think you could undertake, for a while
at least, to help such a lame dog as I am over the stile? You have no idea," said the rector
earnestly, "what a service you would be doing not only to me, but to my people and the church."

John pulled thoughtfully at his mustache for a moment, while Mr. Euston watched his face. "I
don't know," he said at last in a doubtful tone. "I am afraid you are taking too much for granted--I
don't mean as to my good will, but as to my ability to be of service, for I suppose you mean
that I should help in drilling your choir."

"Yes," replied Mr. Euston. "I suppose it would be too much to ask you to sing as well."

"I have had no experience in the way of leading or directing," replied John, ignoring the suggestion,
"though I have sung in church more or less, and am familiar with the service, but even admitting
my ability to be of use, shouldn't you be afraid that my interposing might make more trouble
than it would help? Wouldn't your choir resent it? Such people are sometimes jealous, you know."

"Oh, dear, yes," sighed the rector. "But," he added, "I think I can guarantee that there will
be no unpleasant feeling either toward you or about you. Your being from New York will give
you a certain prestige, and their curiosity and the element of novelty will make the beginning
easy."

There came a knock at the door and Mr. Harum appeared, but, seeing a visitor, was for withdrawing.

"Don't go," said John. "Come in. Of course you know Mr. Euston."

"Glad to see ye," said David, advancing and shaking hands. "You folks talkin' bus'nis?" he
asked before sitting down.

"I am trying to persuade Mr. Lenox to do me a great favor," said Mr. Euston.

