While we thus entirely exonerate Lords Denman, Cottenham, and Campbell from all imputation
of intentionally giving effect to party and political bias, it is difficult to suppose them,
or any other peer, entirely free from unconscious political bias; but in the nature of things,
is it not next to impossible that it should be otherwise, in the case of men who combine in
their own persons the legislative and judicial character, and in the former capacity are unavoidably
and habitually subject to party influences? When a Judicial question is under consideration,
of such extreme doubtfulness as almost to justify a vote either way, (we must deal with men
and things as we find them,) can it excite great surprise, if even in the most honourable minds
a political bias should unconsciously evince its presence, and just turn the scale?

But here the case has turned upon one single point of the purest technicality, which the House
of Lords has deemed sufficient to cause a reversal of the judgment of the court below; and
the question is, have they done rightly? Are they right or wrong in point of strict law? In
the language of Mr Justice Williams--the objection raised in behalf of the traversers "is purely
of a technical nature, and to be examined in the same spirit of minute and exact criticism
in which it was conceived."[14]

The dry question, then, is this: Is it a rule, a principle, a custom, of English law, that
one good count will sustain a general judgment upon a writ of error in a criminal case, although
there should be also bad counts in the indictment? Is that a "custom or maxim of our law,"
or is it not? First, then, how is this to be ascertained? The illustrious commentator on the
laws of England, Mr Justice Blackstone,[15] shall answer:--

"Established customs, rules, and maxims, I take to be one and the same thing.

These judges were appealed to by the House of Lords upon the present occasion; and by an overwhelming
majority "distinctly, clearly, and decidedly" declared that the rule in question was a rule
of the English law. They had heard all the arguments calling its existence in question which
Lord Denman, Lord Cottenham, and Lord Campbell had heard; they were in the daily and hourly
administration of that branch of the law with reference to which the question arose; they took
ample time to consider the matter, and deliberately affirmed the existence of the rule, and
the valid grounds on which it rested. Are Lord Lyndhurst and Sir Nicholas Tindal, with eight
of the judges, palpably and manifestly wrong? It is certainly possible, though not, we presume,
very probable.

We fully recognise the right of the judicial peers to examine the validity of the reasons assigned
by the judges, and to come to a conclusion opposite to theirs. We apprehend that the long recognition,
alone, of the existence of a rule, does not prevent its being impeached on sufficient reasons.
Lord Tenterden, as cautious and accurate judge as ever presided over a court of justice, thus
expressed himself in delivering the judgment of the court on a question of mercantile law[16]--"It
is of great importance, in almost every case, that a rule once laid down, and firmly established,
and continued to be acted upon for many years, should not be changed, unless it appears clearly
to have been founded on wrong principles." Have, then, Lords Denman, Cottenham, and Campbell,
succeeded in showing the rule in question to have been founded on wrong principles?

After as close and fair an examination of the judgments given in the House of Lords as we are
capable of bestowing upon any subject, we have arrived at the conclusion that the Chancellor
and judges were plainly right, and the peers who differed from them as plainly wrong. They
doubtless believed that they were eradicating an erroneous and mischievous practice from the
administration of criminal law; but we entertain grave fears that they have not duly considered
the many important reasons and necessities out of which that practice originated, and which,
in our opinion, will require the legislature either to restore it, or devise some other expedient
in lieu of it--if one so efficacious can be found--after a very brief experience of the practical
mischiefs and inconveniences which the decision of the House of Lords will entail upon the
administration of criminal justice.

Mr Justice Coltman observes,[17] that "in old times an indictment contained one single count
only;" and that, "now it has become usual to insert many counts." It has become usual--it should
rather be said necessary; but why? Because of the rigid precision which the law, in spite of
the subtle and complicated character of its modern mode of administration, has long thought
fit to require for the protection of the subject, in the statement of an offence charged against
an individual. Unless that degree of generality in framing criminal charges, which has been
so severely reprobated, in the present instance, by Lord Denman, and which led the judges unanimously
to condemn the sixth and seventh counts, shall be henceforth permitted, justice must, so to
speak, be allowed to have many strings to her bow; otherwise the very great distinctness and
particularity which constitute the legal notion of certainty, are only a trap and a snare for
her. There is a twofold necessity for allowing the reasonable multiplication of counts: one,
to meet the difficulty often arising out of the adjustment of the statement in the charge to
the evidence which is to support it; and the other, to obviate the great difficulty, in many
cases, of framing the charge with perfect legal certainty and precision. Look for a striking
illustration at the sixth and seventh counts of this very indictment. Few practical lawyers,
we venture to think, would have pronounced them insufficient, before hearing those numerous
astute and able arguments which have led the judges to that conclusion; and what if these had
been the only counts, or one of them the sole count? Of course, justice would have been defeated.
Now the rule, custom, or practice--call it what you will--which has been annulled by the House
of Lords, was admirably adapted to meet, in combination with the allowance of several counts,
the practical and perhaps inevitable difficulties which beset the attempt to bring criminals
to justice; to prevent any injurious consequences from either defective or unproved counts;
and we think we may truly state, that no single instance as adduced during the argument, of
actual mischief or injury occasioned to defendants by the operation of this rule--we believe
we may safely defy any one now to produce such a case. It is certainly possible for an anxious
straining ingenuity to imagine such cases; and where is the rule of law, which, in the infirmity
of human institutions, cannot be shown capable of occasioning possible mischief and injustice?

One important distinction has not, we venture to think, been kept constantly in view by the
House of Lords in arriving at their recent decision; we mean, the distinction between defective
counts and unproved counts. It was principally in the former case that the annulled rule operated
so advantageously for the interests of justice. Let us suppose a case. A man is charged with
an offence; and the indictment contains three counts, which we will call A, B, C--each differently
describing the same offence. He is proved in court to have actually done an act to which the
law annexes a punishment, and a general verdict and judgment, awarding the correct kind of
punishment, are given and entered. If it afterwards became necessary to "make up" the record--i.
e. to enter the proceedings in due and full form--it might appear that count A was essentially
defective, as containing no "offence" at all. But what did that signify--or what would it have
signified if count B had also been bad--provided count C was a good one, and warranted the
punishment which had been inflicted? The only consequence was, that the indictment was a little
longer than it turns out that it needed to have been. Though several hooks had been used in
order to give an additional chance of catching the fish, that was not regretted, when, the
fish having been caught, it turned out that two out of the three had not been strong enough;
and that, had they alone been used, the fish must have escaped.

Let us see how the new rule laid down by the House of Lords will operate in future, in such
a case as the one above supposed; bearing in mind that it will have to be acted upon, not merely
by the judges of the superior courts at the assizes, but by the chairmen--the lay chairmen--of
the courts of Quarter-Sessions. Let us imagine the indictment to be a long one, and each count
necessarily complicated in its allegations and refinements, to meet very doubtful facts, or
very doubtful language in an Act of Parliament. A great number of prisoners are to be tried;
but, nevertheless, the judge (lay or professional) has mastered the formidable record, and
points out to the jury two bad counts, A and B, as either not hitting the facts of the case
or the language of the act--possibly neither. He orders them to be quashed, or directs a verdict
of not guilty upon them. He then has the verdict and judgment entered accordingly on count
C, (the count which he considers good.) The record is afterwards made up; a writ of error brought;
the only count on which the judgment is given being C, the court of error decides that it is
bad, reverses the judgment, and the prisoner is discharged; or the country is put to the expense
and trouble of bringing, and the prisoner unjustly harrassed by, fresh proceedings, which may,
perhaps, end as disastrously as before!

To escape from these serious difficulties, it is proposed by Lord Denman,[18] to leave the
legal sufficiency of the counts for discussion before a court of error, and to pass, not one
sentence, but three distinct sentences on each count respectively, apportioning to the offence
thereby apparently charged, the degree of punishment due to the guilt disclosed. Keeping his
eye on the alarming possibility of a reversal of judgment, what difficulties will not beset
the path of the judge while engaged on this very critical duty? And why may not the indictment,
for necessary caution's sake, contain, as there often are, ten, fifteen, or twenty counts?
we shall then have ten or fifteen distinct sentences delivered in open court--engrossed on
the record--and dangling at once around the neck of the astounded and bewildered prisoner.
Is such a method of procedure calculated to secure respect for the administration of justice,
even if, by means of such devices, the ends of justice should be ultimately secured, though
it is easy to imagine cases in which such devices would, after all, fail; and we had framed
several illustrations of such possibilities, but our limits forbid their insertion: instances
illustrating the mischievous operation of the rule, equally in cases of defective and unproved
counts--of felonies and misdemeanours--and in the latter case, whether the indictment contained
several offences, or only varied statements of one offence. In the case first put, what a temptation
the new rule holds out to criminals who may be able to afford to bring a writ of error, and
so seriously embarrass the administration of justice! And if too poor to do it, he will, under
the operation of the new rule, be suffering punishment unjustly; for the only count selected
may be bad, or some one only of several may be bad, and the judgment ought to be reversed.
What was the operation of the old rule? Most salutary and decorous. No public account was taken
of the innocuous aims, so to speak, taken by justice, in order to hit her victim. If he fell,
the public saw that it was in consequence of a blow struck by her, and concerned themselves
not with several previous abortive blows. The prisoner, knowing himself proved actually guilty,
and the numerous chances existing against him on the record, if he chose to make pettifogging
experiments upon its technical sufficiency, submitted to his just fate.

Let us take one more case--that of murder: we fear, that on even such solemn and awful occasions,
the new rule will be found to operate most disadvantageously. There are necessarily several,
possibly many, counts. Mr Baron Parke[19] admits, that here the old rule should apply; viz.
a general judgment of death, which shall not be vitiated by one, or several bad counts, if
there be a single good one. The new rule since laid down, says, however, the contrary; that
judgment must be reversed for a single bad count. Lord Denman, to meet this difficulty, would
pass sentence "upon some one"[20] of them, and thereby exhaust the materials of punishment,
and so in effect give a "judgment for one felony." But how is the record to be dealt with?
If the prisoner choose to bring a writ of error, and show a single bad count, must not the
judgment be reversed if entered generally? And if entered on one count with not guilty on all
the others; and that one count proved bad, while even a single one of the rejected counts is
good, and would have been supported by the evidence given at the trial, the prisoner can plead
autrefois acquit to a fresh indictment, and so get off scot-free, after having been incontestably
proved guilty of the act of murder! Suppose then, to avoid so fearful a result, separate sentences
of death be passed, to say nothing of the unseemliness of the transaction in open court, which
might be avoided: but how can it be avoided on the record, upon which it must be entered? Mr
Baron Parke pronounces that such a procedure would be "superfluous, and savour of absurdity,"[21]
and that therefore, "in such a case, the general judgment might be good!" Thus, in order to
work the new rule, Mr Baron Parke is forced to make the case of murder a double exception--viz.
to the adoption of the new rule at the trial, and then to the operation of the new rule before
the court of error, which must then hold that a single bad, or a dozen bad counts, will not
vitiate a general judgment, if sustained by one good count! Does not all this suffice to show
the desperate shifts to which even two such distinguished judges are driven, in order to support
the new rule, and conceal its impracticability? Then why should the old lamp be exchanged for
the new?

We entertain, we repeat, very grave apprehension that the House of Lords has treated far too
cavalierly the authority of the great Lord Mansfield, than whom a more enlightened, learned,
and cautious a judge probably never administered justice among mankind. He was not a man accustomed,
in delivering his judgments, to "utter things needlessly and inconsiderately," as he is now
charged with doing;[22] and when he declared the established rule of criminal law to be that
which has now been so suddenly abrogated, he spoke with the authority which nearly thirty years'
judicial experience attaches to the opinion of a responsible master-mind. We ask with deep
anxiety, what will be the consequences of thus lightly esteeming such authority?--of impugning
the stability of the legal fabric, by asserting one-half of its materials to consist merely
of "law taken for granted?"[23]--and, consequently, not the product of experience and wisdom,
and to be got rid of with comparative indifference, in spite of the deliberate and solemn judgment
of an overwhelming majority of the existing judicial authorities of the land.

The rule just abrogated has, for a long series of years--for a century and a half--obviated
a thousand difficulties and evils, even if it should be admitted that the end was gained at
the expense of some imperfections in a speculative and theoretical point of view, and with
the risk of possibly inflicting injustice in some case, which could be imagined by an ingenious
and fertile fancy. The old rule gave ten chances to one in favour of justice; the new one gives
ten chances to one against her. We may be mistaken, but we cannot help imagining, that if Lord
Cottenham, unquestionably so able as an equity judge, had, on the maxim cuique suâ arte credendum,
given a little more weight to the opinions of those whose whole lives had been passed, not
in equity, but criminal courts, or had seen for himself the working of the criminal law, he
would have paused before disturbing such complicated--necessarily complicated--machinery, and
would not have spoken of the consequences as being so very slight and unimportant--nay, as
so very beneficial.

It was suggested by the three peers, that the old rule had no better foundation than the indolence,
slovenliness, and negligence of practitioners, whom the salutary stringency of the new rule
would stimulate into superior energy and activity. We cannot help regarding this notion, however--for
the preceding, among many other reasons--as quite unfounded, and perhaps arising out of a hasty
glance at the alterations recently introduced into civil pleadings and practice. But observe,
it required an act of Parliament to effect these alterations, (stat. 3 and 4 Will. IV. c. 42,)
the very first section reciting the "doubts which might arise as to the power of the judges
to make such alterations without the authority of Parliament;" and yet the state of the laws
calling for such potent interference was in an incomparably more defective and mischievous
state than is imputed to the present criminal law. Then, again, any practical man will see
in a moment, that the strictness of the new system of civil pleading, which to this moment
occasions not infrequently a grievous failure of justice, with all the ample opportunities
afforded for deliberate examination and preparation of the pleadings, cannot be safely applied
to criminal law for many reasons, principally because it rarely admits of that previous deliberation
in drawing the indictment, which must be based upon the often inaccurate statement of facts
supplied by the depositions; and because a defect in them is, generally speaking, irremediable
and fatal, and crime goes unpunished. If the new rule is to be really acted upon in future,
we must, in some way or other, alter the whole machinery of the criminal law: but how to do
so, without seriously interfering with the liberty of the subject, we know not.

We affirm, therefore, that the old rule--viz. that one good count would support a general verdict
and judgment, though the indictment contained bad ones also--was a beneficial rule, calculated
to obviate inevitable difficulties; and its policy was so transparent to all the great intellects
which have, both as judges or counsel, been for so long a series of years concerned in criminal
cases, that no one ever thought of questioning it. The supposition of the three peers is one
not very flattering to the distinguished predecessors, with the great Lord Mansfield at their
head--all of whom it charges with gross negligence, ignorance, and, in plain words, stupidity--in
overlooking, from time to time, a point so patent and glaring. The Lord Chancellor's answer
to their argument is triumphant; and we refer the reader to it.[24] We respectfully and firmly
enter our protest against Lord Denman's mode of getting rid of the efficacy of a custom or
practice which has been so long observed by the profession; and regard it as one calculated
to sap the foundations of the common law of the land. An opinion, a practice which has stood
its ground for so long a series of years unchallenged, amidst incessant provocation to challenge
it--and that, too, in the case of men of such vigilant astuteness, learning, and determination
as have long characterized the English Bench and Bar--rest upon as solid grounds as are conceivable,
and warrants it subversion only after profound consideration, and repeated evidence of its
mischievous operation. Was any such evidence offered in the argument at the Bar of the House
of Lords, of persons who had suffered either a kind or a degree of punishment not warranted
by law? None: but several cases were put in which--in spite of past experience to the contrary--inconvenience
and injustice might possibly be conceived to occur hereafter!

What, then, led to this error--for error we must call it? Let us candidly express our opinion
that the three peers were fairly "overpowered"--to adopt the frank acknowledgment of one of
the most distinguished among them--by the plausible fallacies urged upon them, with such unprecedented
pertinacity and ingenuity, by the traversers' counsel. They have been influenced by certain
disturbing forces, against which they ought to have been vigilantly on their guard, and which
we shall now venture to specify, as having occasioned their forgetfulness of the true province
of a court of error--of the functions and duties of the members of such a court. A COURT OF
ERROR occupies a high, but necessarily a very limited, sphere of action. Their observations
and movements are restricted to the examination of a single document, viz. the record, which
they are to scrutinize, as closely as possible, without regard to any of the incidents which
may have attended the progress of the events narrated in it, if these incidents do not appear
upon record: and they must be guided by general principles--not such as might properly regulate
a certain special and particular case, but such as would guide them in all cases. And this
is signified by the usual phrase, that they "must not travel out of the record." Now, we defy
any one to read the judgments of the three peers, without detecting the undue influence which
one extrinsic and utterly inadmissible fact has had upon their minds; viz. the fact, that the
court below had actually affirmed the validity of the two bad counts. They speak of its being
"against notorious facts"--against "common probabilities," a "palpably incredible fiction"--to
conclude from the language of the record, that the "offences" there mentioned did not include
the pseudo offences contained in the sixth and seventh counts. In this particular case, it
did undoubtedly happen, in point of fact, that the court below decided these counts to be valid
counts: but the court of error can take no cognisance whatever of extrinsic facts. Their only
source of information--their only means of knowledge, is the record--beyond the four corners
of which they have no power, no authority, to cast a single glance; and within which are contained
all the materials upon which, by law, the judges of a court of error can adjudicate and decide.
The Court, in the present case, ought thus to have contemplated the record in the abstract--and
with reference to the balance of possibilities in such cases, that the court below had affirmed,
or condemned the vicious counts: which very balance of possibilities shows the impropriety
of being influenced by speculations based on matters dehors the record. However numerous and
mischievous may have been the errors committed by the inferior court, a court of error can
take no cognisance of them, if they do not appear specifically and positively upon the record,
however valid may be the claim which these errors may notoriously prefer to the interference
of the executive. Consider what a very serious thing it is--what a shock to the public confidence
in the administration of justice--to reverse a judgment pronounced after due deliberation,
and under the gravest responsibilities, by a court of justice! The law and constitution are
properly very tender in the exercise of such a perilous power, and have limited it to the case
of "MANIFEST" error--that is, not the vehement, the immense probability that there has been
error--but the CERTAINTY of such error necessarily and exclusively appearing from the record
itself. To act upon speculation, instead of certainty, in these cases, is dangerous to the
last degree, and subversive of some of the fundamental principles of English jurisprudence.
"Judgment may be reversed in a criminal case by writ of error," says Blackstone, "for NOTORIOUS
(i. e. palpable, manifest, patent) mistakes in the judgment, as when a man is found guilty
of PERJURY, (i. e. of a misdemeanour,) and RECEIVES THE JUDGMENT OF FELONY." This is the true
doctrine; and we submit that it demonstrates the error which has been committed in the present
instance. Let us illustrate our case by an example. Suppose a man found guilty under an indictment
containing two counts, A and B. To the offence in count A, the legislature has annexed one
punishment only, viz. transportation; to that in count B, imprisonment. The court awards sentence
of transportation; and, on a writ of error being brought, the court above pronounces count
A to be bad. Here it appears INEVITABLY and "manifestly" from the record, that there has been
error; there is no escaping from it; and consequently judgment must be reversed. So where the
judgment is the infliction of punishment "for his offences" aforesaid: there being only two
offences charged, one of which is contained in a bad count, containing therefore no "offence"
at all. Apply this principle to the present case. Does this record, in sentencing the defendant
"for his offences aforesaid," conclusively and necessarily show that the court regarded the
sixth and seventh counts as containing "offences," and awarded punishment in respect of them?
We unhesitatingly deny it. The merest tyro can see that it is possible--and, if so, where is
the NECESSARY error?--that the judges excluded the vicious counts from their consideration;
that they knew the law, and could discern what were and what were not "offences;" and annexed
punishment to only true "offences" in the eye of the law. The word "offence" is a term of art,
and is here used in its strictest technical sense. What is that sense? It is thus defined by
an accurate writer on law: "an offence is an act committed against a law, or omitted when the
law requires it, and punishable by it."[25] This word is, then, properly used in the record--in
its purely technical sense. It can have no other meaning; and an indictment cannot, with great
deference to Mr Baron Parke,[26] contain an "offence" which is not "legally described in it;"
that is, unless any act charged against the defendant be shown upon the face of the indictment
to be a breach of the law, no "offence," as regards that act, is contained in or alleged by
the indictment. The House of Lords, therefore, has exceeded the narrow province and limited
authority of a court of error, or has presumed, upon illegal and insufficient grounds, that
the Irish judges did not know which were, and which were not "offences," and that they did,
in fact, consider those to be offences which were not, although the record contains matter
to satisfy the allegation to the letter--viz. a plurality of real "offences." Where is Lord
Campbell's authority for declaring this judgment "clearly erroneous in awarding punishment
for charges which are not offences in point of law?" Or Lord Cottenham's, for saying that "the
record states that the judgment was upon all the counts, bad as well as good?" They have none
whatever; their assertions appear to us, with all due deference and respect, purely arbitrary,
and gratuitous fallacies; they do violence to legal language--to the language of the record,
and foist upon it a ridiculous and false interpretation. We admit, with Lord Cottenham, that
"where the sentence is of a nature applicable only to the bad counts," it is incurably vicious,
and judgment must be reversed--it is the very case which we put above; but how does that appear
in the judgment under consideration? Not at all. The two cases are totally different.

And this brings us to another palpable fallacy--another glaring and serious error into which
we cannot help thinking the House of Lords has fallen, and which is abundantly evidenced by
their judgment: viz. that a court of error has any concern whatever with, or can draw any inference
whatever from, the AMOUNT of punishment. The reasoning of the judges is here perfectly conclusive.
"If a sentence be OF THE KIND which the law allows, the degree of it is not within the competence
of a court of error. If a fine be an appropriate part of the sentence of a court below, the
excess of it is no ground of error. What possible line can be drawn as to the reasonableness
and excess, so as to affect it with illegality? It is obvious there can be none. If in this
case, the sentence had been transportation, the sentence would have been illegal: Why? Because
not of the kind authorized by law in such a case." Any presumption, therefore, made by a court
of error, from the amount of punishment awarded, as to which of the counts had been taken into
consideration by the judges in giving their judgment, is manifestly based upon insufficient
and illegal grounds. Can these principles have been duly pondered by the lords? We fear not.
Look at Lord Cottenham's supposition of two counts for libel: one for a very malignant one,
the other for one comparatively innocuous; and a sentence of heavy fine and imprisonment passed,
evidently in respect of the malignant libel, which a court of error decides to be no libel
at all. Lord Cottenham appears to rely greatly on this supposed case; but is it not perfectly
clear, that it is not a case of error on the record--and therefore totally inapplicable to
the case which he had to consider? The defendant would have certainly sustained an injury in
that case; Where is the remedy? There is no legal remedy, any more than there is when a man
has been wrongfully acquitted of a manifestly well-proved crime, or unjustly convicted of a
felony. The mercy, or more properly the sense of justice entertained by the executive, must
be appealed to in either case; such power of interposition having, in the imperfection of human
institutions, been wisely reserved to the supreme power to afford redress in all cases where
the LAW cannot. Lord Cottenham's reasoning appears to us, in short, based upon two fallacies--a
petitio principii, in assuming that judgment was entered upon all the counts; the question
being, was it so entered? The other is, that a court of error is competent to infer, from the
amount of punishment, that a defendant has been sentenced upon bad counts. Again: the three
peers admit, that if a sole count contain a quantity of aggravating, but really "irrelevant
stuff" (to adopt Lord Denman's expression,) it will not prejudice the judgment, provided the
count also contain matter which will legally support that judgment. Why should the judges be
given credit for being able to discard from consideration these legally extrinsic matters in
a single count, and not also, by the exercise of the very same discretion, be able to discard,
in considering the record, irrelevant and insufficient counts, such as in the eye of the law
have no existence, are mere nonentities?

For these, and many other reasons which might be assigned, had we not already exceeded our
limits, we have, after a close and a candid study of the judgments delivered by the three peers,
and the convincing, the conclusive judgments of the great majority of the judges, come, without
hesitation, to the conclusion, that the Lords have not merely decided incorrectly, but have
precipitately removed a chief corner-stone from the fabric of our criminal law, and have incurred
a very grave responsibility in so doing. We cannot help thinking, that they have forgotten
the fundamental distinction which our constitution makes between "jus dare" and "jus dicere."
Jus dederunt, non jus dixerunt--an error, however, easily to be accounted for, by a reference
to their double capacity, and the confusion it occasions between their judicial and legislative
functions. We view with grave apprehension the power exercised by three members of the House
of Lords, of overturning so well-established a rule and custom as that attested to them by
the judges. What security have we for the integrity of our common law? In the face of the judges'
decisions, how decorous and dignified would have been the conduct of the House of Lords in
giving way, even if they had differed from the judges; lamenting that such was the law of the
land, and resolving to try and persuade the legislature to alter it, as has often been done.
Witness the statute of 1 and 2 Geo. IV. c. 78, passed in consequence of the decision of the
House of Lords in Rowe v. Young, 2 Brod. and Bing. 165. The House of Commons has resented such
interference with the laws by the House of Lords; who, in the case of Reeve v. Young, (1 Salkeld,
227,) "moved by the hardship of the case, reversed the judgments of the courts below, contrary
to the opinion of all the judges." But the House of Commons, "in reproof of this assumption
of legislative authority in the Lords," immediately brought in the 10 and 11 Will. III. c.
16, which passed into a statute.[27] May we venture to suggest that the elaborate, and long,
and deeply-considered opinions of the judges of the land, who had been summoned by the Lords
to advise them, were worthy of more than the single day, or day and a half's examination which
they received before they were so peremptorily pronounced to be "clearly erroneous?" And may
we, with no little pain, suggest to Lord Campbell, that the array of Gamaliels at whose feet
he had sate during his whole life--whose feet he had indeed so very recently quitted--whose
integrity, whose profound learning, whose sagacity, none has had larger experience of than
he--are entitled to look at his cavalier-like treatment of their best services, with a feeling
stronger than that of mere surprise? In concluding this long article--in expressing our conviction
of the error of the Lords--we feel one consolation at all events--that if we err, we err in
good company; and that we are not conscious of having transgressed the limits of legitimate
discussion, in exercising as undoubted a right of its kind, as these three peers exercised
in branding so overwhelming a majority of the judges of the land with the imputation of ignorance
of those laws which all their lives had been spent in administering. The very existence of
the ancient common law of the land is put in jeopardy by such a procedure as that which we
have been discussing; and our honest conviction, however erroneous, that such is the case,
will suffice to excuse the freedom of our strictures; if, indeed, we require an excuse for
echoing the stern declaration of on forefathers--Nolumus leges Angliæ mutari.

As to him who has reaped the benefit of this lamentable miscarriage--Mr O'Connell--the law
of the land has nevertheless been vindicated, and the stability of the empire secured, to a
far greater extent than he is willing to acknowledge. Agitation he must continue; he must play
out his base and sordid game.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] See the Judgment of the Judges, ordered by the House of Lords to be printed, (and from
which the quotations in this article have been made,) read to the House of Lords by Lord Chief-Justice
Tindal, on the 2d September 1844.

[2] State Prosecutions, pp. 9, 10. No. CCCXXXIX. Vol. LV.

[3] Blackstone's Commentaries, vol. i. p. 302.

[4] Several distinct offences may undoubtedly be included, in as many counts, in one indictment.

[5] Two of the defendants' (the two priests) names do not appear in the record of the verdict,
as one of them (Tyrrell) died before the trial, and as to Tierney, the Attorney-General entered
a nolle prosequi.

[6] Comyn's Digest, title Pleader, 3 B. 18.

[7] This is the proper expression. See M'Queen's Practice of the House of Lords, p. 256. "They
are summoned for their advice in point of law, and the greater dignity of the proceedings"
of the Lords.--(Blackst, Comm. p. 167.)

[8] 1 Blackstone's Commentaries, p. 69.

[9] Opinions of the Judges, &c.--(Pp. 1-3.)

[10] Opinions of the Judges, p. 23.

[11] 3 Blackstone's Commentaries, p. 395.

[12] We quote from the edition of Lord Denman's judgment, sanctioned by himself, and edited
by D. Leahy, Esq., (one of the counsel in the cause.)

[13] A "demurrer" is the mode by which any pleading, civil or criminal, is denied to be (whether
in form or substance) sufficient in point of law; and a plea is the mode by which is denied
the truth of the facts which the pleading alleges.

[14] Opinions of the Judges, p. 19.

[15] Vol. I., pp. 68-9.

[16] Williams v. Germaine, 7 Bar. and Cress. 476.

[17] Opinions of the Judges, p. 17.

[18] Judgment, (by Leahy,) p. 36.

[19] Opinions of the Judges, p. 28.

[20] Judgment, &c., p. 43.

[21] Opinions of the Judges, p. 28.

[22] Lord Denman's judgment.

[23] Ditto.

[24] Ante.

[25] West's Symbolography, and Jacob's and Tomlin's Law.

[26] Opinions of the Judges, p. 29.

[27] 2 Bla. Comm. 169; and see Mr Christian's Note.

MY COLLEGE FRIENDS.

No. I

JOHN BROWN.

Did you ever happen to know a man who spent a whole Christmas vacation in Oxford, and survived
it? I did. And this is how it came to pass.

"Frank," said the governor one evening after dinner, when the conversation had turned upon
my approaching return to college, and the ticklish question of supplies had been disposed of--"when
the deuce do you mean to go up for your degree? I have a notion this next term is your fifteenth,
young man?"

"Why no, sir--that is, not exactly; you know"----

"Oh! true--I forgot that confounded rustication business. Well, it's your fourteenth at all
events, and I think that's enough."

"Well, sir, I was thinking to have a shy at it after Christmas."

"Shy at it! You've always been shying at it, I think. I hope it mayn't end in a bolt, Master
Frank!"

I laughed dutifully at the paternal wit, and promised to go to work in earnest the moment I
reached Oxford.

This was a resolution announced periodically like the ballot question, and with much the same
result. So the governor only shook his head, yawned, looked at the bottle, which stood between
us nearly empty, and prepared apparently for an adjournment.

"I'll tell you what, sir," said I, emptying what remained in the decanter into my glass, and
swallowing it with a desperate energy befitting the occasion, "I'll stay up the Christmas vacation
and read."

"The deuce will you! Why, Frank," continued the governor, sorely puzzled, "you know your cousins
are coming here to spend the Christmas, and I thought we should all make a merry party. Why
can't you read a little at home? You can get up something earlier, you know--much better for
your health--and have two hours or so clear before breakfast--no time like the morning for
reading--and then have all the day to yourself afterwards. Eh, why not, Frank?"

"If you'll allow me to ring for another bottle of this Madeira, sir, (I declare I think it's
better than our senior common-room have, and they don't consider theirs small-beer,) I'll tell
you.----I never could read at home, sir; it's not in the nature of things."

"I doubt whether it's much in your nature to read any where, Frank: I confess I don't see much
signs of it when you are here."

"In the first place, sir, I should never have a room to myself."

"Why, there's the library for you all day long, Frank; I'm sure I don't trouble it much."

"Why, sir, in these days, if there are any young ladies in the house, they take to the library
as a matter of course: it's the regular place for love-making: mammas don't follow them into
the company of folios and quartos while there are three volumes of the last novel on the drawing-room
table; and the atmosphere is sentimentality itself; they mark favourite passages, and sigh
illustrations."

"Precious dusty work, Frank, flirtations among my book-shelves must be; but I suppose the girls
don't go much beyond the bindings: they don't expect to get husbands by being blue."

"Not exactly, sir; reviews and title-pages constitute a good part of modern literary acquirements.
But upon my honour, sir, one hears young ladies now talk of nothing but architecture and divinity.
Botany is quite gone out; and music, unless there's a twang of Papistry about it, is generally
voted a bore. In my younger days--(really, sir, you needn't laugh, for I haven't had a love
affair these two years)--in my younger days, when one talked about similarity of tastes and
so forth, it meant that both parties loved moonlight, hated quadrilles, adored Moore's Melodies,
and were learning German; now, nine girls out of ten have a passion for speculative divinity
and social regeneration."

"Ay, one sort of nonsense does just as well for them as another: your cousin Sophy bothers
me to build an Elizabethan pigsty, and wanted her poor mother to dance with the butler in the
servants' hall last Christmas, when the fellow was as drunk as an owl: I hope it mayn't end
in her figuring off herself with the footman; for Sophy is rather a pet of mine, and a right-down
English girl after all. But, Frank, if you can't read in peace in the library, you surely could
have a room fitted up for yourself up stairs; and you shall have the great reading-desk, with
lights, that was your grandfather's, that stands in my little sanctum; (he made more use of
it, poor man, than I do;) or I don't know but what I might spare you the little room itself,
if it would suit you--eh?"

"Oh, my dear father! I wouldn't disturb you on any account," said I, rather alarmed at the
extent of my worthy parent's liberality in the cause, and fearing it might end in the offer
of the whole family to pack themselves in the attics, and leave me a first floor to myself--calculating,
too, the amount of hard reading commensurate with such imposing preparations. "What would become
of the justice business of the parish, sir, if we shut up your tribunal? I don't suppose my
mother would like to have the constables and the illegitimates introduced either into the drawing-room
or the kitchen," (this was, as I meant it to be, a poser; if Mr Hawthorne senior had a hobby,
it was his magisterial authority.) "The fact is, that at home, up-stairs or down-stairs, I
couldn't read. I should have not only my own idleness, but the various idlenesses of the whole
family combined, to fight against. My sisters would be knocking at the door every half hour,
if only to ask how I was getting on: Bob would tease me to come out skating, and Charles would
start me perpetually after wild-ducks or woodcocks. And you yourself, sir, if I am not much
mistaken, would think it odd if I didn't take a ride with you as usual after breakfast. Then
one can't be expected to crawl about one's books by candlelight on a winter's morning; and
after a six o'clock dinner who can read? After tea you know, sir, my mother always likes a
rubber when I'm at home; and if you are going to have those girls, Jane and Sophy, down this
Christmas"----

"Ah! well--I see, Frank; I'm afraid it's a hopeless case. Perhaps you had better stay up at
Oxford after all; you won't have much to disturb you there, I suppose. If you don't get moped
to death, I certainly don't see what's to hinder your reading. You don't feel inclined to try
North Wales in the winter, I suppose, eh?"

"No, sir," said I, swallowing a last glass of Madeira at a gulp, and rising, to cut short a
conversation which was beginning to take rather an awkward turn--"No, sir, not exactly."

"Why, I don't know, Frank: why not? you'd find the climate cooler, you know," persevered the
governor, as he followed me into the drawing-room.

So in Oxford it was settled that I should stay; a tolerable character for the last term or
two, and the notorious fact that I was going up at Easter, ostensibly for a class, obtained
me the necessary permission: strange that, in the University, one should require leave to read!
My friends, John Brown and Harry Chesterton, were to stay up too; and we promised ourselves
some hours of hard work, and many merry ones together. The vice-principal and one of the juniors,
the only fellows that would be in residence, were both gentlemen, and always treated the under-graduates
as such; we should get rid of the eternal rounds of beef and legs of mutton that figured at
the commoners' table in hall; there would be no morning chapel; and altogether, having had
nearly enough of the noisy gayety of a full term, we looked forward to the novelty of a few
quiet weeks in college with a degree of pleasure which surprised even ourselves.

But alas! under-graduates are but mortals, and subject to somewhat more than the ordinary uncertainties
of mortal life. It wanted but a week to the end of term; all our plans were settled. Brown
was to migrate from his own rooms in "Purgatory"--as we used to call the little dark back quadrangle,
where, from sheer laziness, which made him think moving a bore, he had remained ever since
his first location there as a freshman, up three pair of stairs; so that, when his intimate
friends wished to ascertain if he was at home, we used to throw a stone through the window--and
was to take up his abode in "Elysium," where he would be Chesterton's next-door neighbour,
and in the same number as myself. We were to have a quiet breakfast in each others' rooms in
turn every morning; no gross repast of beef-steaks and "spread-eagle" fowls, but a slight relish
of anchovy toast, potted shrimps, or something equally ethereal; and the chasse-café limited
to one cigar and no bottled porter. It was cruel to interfere with such unexceptionable arrangements;
but a college, though it have a head, has no heart worth mentioning; and, in an evil hour,
they rusticated John Brown. At least they forbade his staying up the Christmas vacation; and,
for the credit of my friend's character, let me explain. Why John Brown should have been a
person particularly distasteful to the fellows of ---- College, was a matter at first sight
rather hard to understand. He was not what is called a rowing man; was never found drunk in
the quad, or asleep at the hall lecture; never sported a pink, or drove a team; was not known
to have been concerned in any of the remarkable larks which occurred in our times; was neither
an agent in the Plague of Frogs, nor an actor in the private theatricals; was not a member
of the Agricultural Society, which made the remarkable experiments with clover and ryegrass
in the college quadrangle; had no talent for midnight howling, sang very small in a chorus,
capped all the fellows diligently, and paid his battels to the minute. He was known to have
asked twice for the key of the library, put down his name for the senior tutor's pet lecture
in "Cornelius Nepos," bought the principal's sermon on the "Via Media," and was suspected of
having tried to read it. He was not clever enough to sneer at the tutors, or stupid enough
to disgust them. He was too sleepy to keep late hours, too fat to pull in the boat, too stingy
to give supper-parties. How on earth came the fellows not to like John Brown? "A most respectable
man," the principal always said he was. "Sir," said he to his anxious father, when, at the
end of his second term, he took the opportunity of a professional visit to Oxford to call to
know how the hope of the Browns was progressing--"Sir, I consider your son a most respectable
person: I may say a most respectable person;" and as the principal had taken wine with him
once at dinner, and bowed to him at collections, and read "Mr John Brown" twice upon a card
at the end and beginning of term, and thus had every opportunity of forming an opinion, and
expressed that opinion oracularly, in a Johnsonian fashion, Governor Brown was satisfied. How
did the fellows come not to like John Brown?--pronounced "most respectable" by the principal--declared
by his scout to be "the quietest gentleman as he ever a knowed;" admitted by the under-graduates
to be "a monstrous good fellow, but rather slow;" how came John Brown to fail in recommending
himself to the favour of his pastors and masters--the dean and tutors of ----? Why, in the
first place, John Brown, the elder, was a wine-merchant; a well-educated man, a well-behaved
man; but still a wine-merchant. Now the dean's father was--I beg his pardon, had been--a linen-draper;
neither well-educated nor well behaved; in short, an unmitigated linen-draper. Consequently
the dean's adoration of the aristocracy was excessive. There are few such thorough tuft-hunters
as your genuine Oxford Don; the man who, without family or station in society, often without
any further general education and knowledge of the world than is to be found at a country grammar-school,
is suddenly, upon the strength of some acquaintance with Latin and Greek, or quite as often,
from having first seen the light in some fortunately endowed county, elevated to the dignity
of a fellowship, and permitted to take rank with gentlemen. The "high table" in hall, the Turkey
carpet and violet cushioned chair in the common room, the obsequious attention of college servants,
and the more unwilling "capping" of the under-graduates, to such a man are real luxuries, and
the relish with which he enjoys them is deep and strong. And if he have but the luck to immortalize
himself by holding some University office, to strut through his year of misrule as proctor,
or even as his humble "pro," then does he at once emerge from the obscurity of the family annals
a being of a higher sphere. And when there comes up to commemoration a waddling old lady, and
two thin sticks of virginity, who horrify the college butler by calling the vice-principal
"Dick," no wonder that they return to the select society of their native town with an impression,
that though Oxford was a very fine place, and they had real champagne, and wax candles, and
every thing quite genteel, and dear Richard was very kind, still they did think he was grown
rather proud, as he never once asked after his old acquaintances the Smiths, and didn't like
to be teased about his old flame Mary. No wonder that in the visits, few and far between, which,
during the long vacation, the pompous B.D. pays to his humble relations in the country, (when
he has exhausted the invitations and the patience of his more aristocratic friends,) they do
not find a trace remaining of the vulgar boy, who, some twelve years ago, quitted the seat
of the provincial muses to push his fortunes in the University of Oxford. In vain does his
uncle give up his after-dinner pipe, and in place of the accustomed Hollands and water, astonish
the dusty decanter with port of an unknown vintage in honour of his illustrious nephew; in
vain does the good old lady afore-mentioned, the unworthy mother of so bright a son, quit the
instruction of pious Mr Jabez Jenkins, the "Independent" minister, and turn orthodox and high-church
for the nonce, when her dearly beloved Richard "officiates" for the rev. the vicar; no ties
of home or kindred, no memories of boyhood, no glow of early recollections, touch the case-hardened
parasite of college growth; and when he has banished his younger brother to Australia, under
pretext of making his fortune, married both his sisters, and erected a cheap monument to the
linen-draper's widow as the "relict of the late Thomas Thompson, Esquire," he waits in peaceful
expectation of a college living, with the consciousness of having done his duty by his relations,
and delivered himself from a drag upon his new career. I do not mean to set too high a value
on gentle birth, or to limit nobility of character by that of blood; I believe my tailor to
be one of nature's gentlemen, (he never duns,) and I know my next neighbour, Sir John, thirteenth
baronet as he is, to possess the soul of a huckster, because he sells his fruit and game: still
these are the exceptions, not the rule; and there are few cases of men rising from low origin--rising,
that is, from circumstances, not from ability--not the architects, but the creations of their
own fortunes, (for that makes all the difference)--who do not carry with them, through all
the gradations of their advancement, the plebeian instincts, while they forget, perhaps, the
homely virtues of the class from which they spring. There is a nobility of birth, seldom to
be counterfeited or mistaken, wholly irrespective of the rank and wealth which are either its
graceful accompaniments or its insufficient substitutes; fostered and strengthened by early
habits and education, but none the less originally innate--as much an endowment from heaven
as beauty, strength, or talent, and more valuable than all. Many men have the tact to adapt
themselves to the station and the society to which they have risen, however much above their
own level; they acquire the habits and the tastes, seldom the feelings, of a gentleman. They
act the character well; it is carefully studied, and on the whole well sustained; it is a correct
and painstaking performance, and the points tell distinctly; but there is throughout that indirect
appeal to the audience which marks it to be only acting. They are more studiously aristocratic
than the aristocracy, and have a horror of vulgarity which is in itself essentially vulgar.

And such a man was the dean of ----. On the philosophic principle of hating all to whom we
are under obligations, if there was any thing he cordially detested, it was trade. His constant
aim was to forget his unfortunate origin himself, if possible to lead others who knew him to
forget it, and to keep strangers from knowing it at all. And as he shrank from every shape
and sound plebeian, so he industriously cultivated every opening to "good society." There was
not a member of his own college, graduate or under-graduate, of any pretensions to family,
who could not speak from experience of the dean's capital dinners, and his invariable urbanity.
No young honourable, or tenth cousin to an honourable, ever got into a row, that he had not
cause to bless the dean's good offices for getting him out. And if some of the old stagers
contented themselves with eating his dinners, and returning them in the proportion of one to
five, the unsophisticated gratitude of youth, less cunning in the ways of the world, declared
unhesitatingly, in its own idiomatic language, "that old Hodgett was a regular brick, and gave
very beany feeds." And so his fame travelled far beyond his own collegiate walls, and out-college
honourables and gentlemen-commoners were content to make the acquaintance, and eat the dinners
that were so freely offered. And as the dean had really some cleverness, and "a well-assorted
selection" of anecdotes and illustrations "from the best markets," (as his worthy father would
have advertised it,) and could fill the chair at his own entertainments with ease if not with
gracefulness, and moreover was not close with his purse-strings, and could always be reckoned
safe for a L.20 note if a dun was troublesome, (well knowing that even under-graduates make
exceptions in favour of debts of honour,) he became, among his younger friends especially,
a very popular man. And when those who had enjoyed his good fare, and profited by his friendly
offices with duns and proctors, found that, after all, he was "nobody," all they said was,
that it was a pity, and that he was a monstrous good fellow none the less. And one invited
him to spend the Christmas with him down at the governor's in Kent, where there was to be a
regular houseful, and merry-making of all sorts, and another would have him into Norfolk in
September for the shooting--(the dean never shot, but wisely said nothing about it until he
got into good quarters, when he left his younger friends to beat the stubbles, while he walked
or drove with Lady Mary and Lady Emily, and eat the partridges;)--so that on the whole he felt
himself rather an ill-used individual if there was a week of the vacation for which he had
not an invite. If such a rare and undesirable exception did happen, seldom indeed did he bestow
himself, even for a day or two, upon his mother and sisters at Nottingham; and never did he,
by any oversight, permit a letter to be addressed to him there; if it could not conveniently
bear the address of some of his titled entertainers, it was to meet him at his college, to
which he usually retired to await, with sufficient discontent, an invitation, or the beginning
of term; while he took pains to have it understood, that his temporary seclusion was hardly
spared him from the hospitable importunities of those whom he delighted to call "his many friends,"
in order to attend to important business. Occasionally, indeed, it would happen that the natural
sagacity of some old English gentleman, or the keen eye of an experienced courtier, would fathom
at a glance the character of his son's invited guest, and treat him with a distant politeness
which he could neither mistake nor get over; but, on the whole, his visits among his aristocratic
entertainers were agreeable enough, and he was not a man to stick at an occasional trifle.
His youthful protégés were glad to be able to repay in the country many kind offices at Oxford,
and to become patronizers in their turn; and the seniors redoubled, in the case of their son's
friend, the hospitality and courtesy they would have readily shown to a stranger, and were
not eager to scrutinize the motives which might have induced him to be civil to the hopeful
stripling, whom, in their partial view, the whole university might well have delighted to honour.

In the eyes of such a man, John Brown was not likely, at first starting, to find much favour.
Had he been a rich man, and sported the velvet cap and silk gown, the unhappy fact of his father's
being in trade might have been winked at. If not in the front rank of the dean's friends he
might have filled a vacant seat occasionally at his dinner-table, and been honoured with a
friendly recognition in the quadrangle. At it was, he did not condescend to remember that such
a man was on the college books. Happy ignorance, if only it could have lasted. But one unlucky
morning a late supper party had decidedly thinned the attendance at the hall lecture; and Mr
Hodgett, having been disappointed of an invitation to a very select dinner at the principal's,
was in no very benignant humour, and "hauled up" the defaulters. Among them was one of the
dean's pets--who, having done the same thing a dozen times before, was rather astonished at
the summons--and the usually regular John Brown. What excuses the rest of the party made is
immaterial. John, I believe, said nothing, beyond a remark as to his having been rarely absent.
The result, however, was, that he and the rest got an imposition, which cost them half-a-guinea
each to get done by the under-cook, (it was Greek with the accents, which comes expensive,)
while the Honourable Lumley Skeffington was dismissed with a jocular reproof, and an invitation
to breakfast. Now, if Mr Skeffington had had the sense to have kept his own and his friend's
counsel, this might have been all very well. But being a somewhat shallow-pated youth, and
a freshman to boot, he thought it a very fine thing to talk about at his next wine-party, and
boast that he could cut lecture and chapel when he pleased--the dean and he understood each
other. Brown happened to be present; (for though not good company enough for the dean, he was
for his betters; your parvenu is far more exclusive in his society than your born gentleman;)
he quietly enquired into the facts; and finding that what he had before been inclined to consider
as undue severity in his own case, was positively an injustice compared with that of another,
appreciating thoroughly the character of the party he had to deal with, and coupling the present
with certain previous minor snubbings from the same quarter, he from that moment declared war.

Now, the Rev. Mr Hodgett, sedate and dignified as he was, had better have danced a hornpipe
in his thinnest silks amongst a bed of stinging nettles, or have poked sticks into a wasp's
nest, or amused himself with any other innocent recreation, than have made an enemy of John
Brown. It was what he himself would have called a wrong move, and it played the deuce with
his game. John was the very man who could annoy him, and he did. None of us knew he had so
much ingenuity, or so much malice in his composition, until he commenced his hostilities against
the dean. The fact was, he was more piqued, perhaps, than any other man in college would have
been by so small a matter. Too sensible to be really ashamed of being the son of a man in trade,
he was conscious, nevertheless, that it was in some sort a disadvantage to him, and that, descended
as he was from an old and once knightly line, (his father had been an ill-used younger son,)
he did not quite occupy his proper position in the world. His feeling of this made him sensitive
to a fault; it led him rather to shun than to seek the society of his contemporaries; and much
as he was esteemed by myself and others who knew him well, I will not say that he was a universal
favourite. Men did not understand him: at that time of life (alas, why not always?) most of
us are open and free-hearted; they did not relish his shy and reserved manner, his unwillingness
to take the initiative in any social intercourse, his exigéance to a certain extent of those
forms which the freedom of college friendship is apt to neglect. "Why didn't you turn into
my rooms the other night, when you came in from Oriel?" said I to him early in our acquaintance.
"Hobbs says he told you I had some men to supper."--"You didn't ask me," was the quiet reply.--"I
couldn't see you, or else I should; but you might have known I wanted you; don't serve me such
a trick as that again, old fellow." But it let me into a secret of his character, and ever
after that, I was as particular in my invitations as possible. Men thought him proud, and cold,
and touchy, which he was not; and stingy, which he scorned to be, from his contempt for ostentation
in any shape. The rarity of his wine-parties, and his never having other wines produced than
port or sherry, he himself explained to me--"Men would say, it was easy for me to sport claret
and champagne, when I could get them for nothing." But if an unthinking freshman broke out
in praise of the said excellent port or sherry, (as indeed they might well be pardoned for
doing, considering the quality of what they commonly imbibed,) he would say at once--"Yes,
I believe it is good; I know my father considers it so, and it has been in bottle above twelve
years." There was no shirking the question for a moment. And excellent wine he got for me from
his father, at a moderate price, at his own offer. Hating then, as he did undisguisedly, the
tuft-hunting and affectation of haut-ton, which was so foreign to his own nature, he felt,
perhaps excusably, annoyed at their palpable existence and apparent success, in a man, whose
station, as he said, ought to have kept him from meanness, if it could not give him dignity.

At all events, his method of retaliation--"taking down the dean"--as he called it was most
systematic and persevering. He let the matter of the imposition pass over quietly; was for
some months doubly attentive to all his college duties; carefully avoided all collision with
his adversary; kept out of his way as much as he could; and whenever brought into contact with
him, was as respectful as if he had been the Vice-chancellor. This had its effect: John began
to rise in the dean's good graces; and when he called upon him in the usual course of etiquette,
to mention that he should be absent the vacation of three days which intervenes between the
two short terms, the meeting, on one side at least, was almost cordial. A day or two after
his return, (he had been to visit a friend, he said,) we were in his rooms at breakfast together,
when the dean's scout entered with his master's compliments to request Mr Brown's company to
breakfast. Then it was that John's eyes dilated, and he rubbed his hands, as soon as the door
was shut, with an excitement rather unusual.

"Do you know who breakfasts with the man to-morrow? Do you, Hawthorne?"

"Why, I had a message this morning," said I, "but I don't mean to go. I shall have a headach
or something to-morrow. I have no notion of going there to eat my own bread and butter, and
drink his very bad tea, and see a freshman swallow greasy ham and eggs, enough to turn the
stomach of any one else; and then those Dons always make a point of asking me to meet a set
of regular muffs that I don't know. The last time I went, there were only two reading-men in
spectacles, perfect dummies, and that ass, young Medlicott, who talks about hunting, and I
believe never crossed the back of anything higher than a donkey."

"You had better come to-morrow; perhaps you will have some fun."

"Why, who is going there, do you know?"

"I haven't a notion; but do come. I must go, and we will sit together, and I'll get the cook
to send up a dish of deviled kidneys for you."

There was something in his eye as he said this which I could not make out, and it rather puzzled
me to find him so willing to be of the party himself. However, he was an odd fellow, so I promised
to go, and we parted; certainly with little anticipation on my part of what the "fun" was to be.

Nine o'clock the next day arrived, and punctual to the minute might be seen two freshmen, from
opposite corners of the quadrangle, steering for the dean's rooms. Ten minutes afterwards,
an interesting procession of coffee-pots and tin-covers warned me to finish my toilet; and
following them up the staircase, I found a tolerably large party assembled.

"Just in time--just in time, Mr Hawthorne," said the dean, who appeared to be in high good-humour,
"as my old pupil, Sir Charles Galston, used to say, (you don't know him, do you? he's your
county man, too, I believe,)--as he always used to say, 'Gad, Hodgett, just in time to see
the muffins break cover!' ha, ha! Take those tins off, Robert."

We sat down, and for some time every thing went on as slow as it usually does at breakfast
parties. At length, taking advantage of a pause, after laughing his loudest at one of our host's
stories, John Brown broke out with "How is Mrs Hodgett, sir?"

If Mrs Hodgett, instead of the dean's most respectable mother, had been his lawful wife, hitherto
unacknowledged through fear of losing his fellowship, he could not have looked more thoroughly
horrified. I myself was considerably taken aback; some of the other men, who knew the reverend
gentleman's tenderness on the subject of his family connexions, picked their chicken-bones,
and stirred their coffee with redoubled attention. John Brown and the two freshmen alone looked
as cool as cucumbers.

"Eh? oh--h," stammered the party addressed, "quite well, thank you--quite well. Let me give
you some of this--oh, it's all gone! We'll have some more; will one of you be kind enough to
ring? My friend, Lord"----

"No more for me, thank you, sir, I beg," said John. "Have you heard from Mrs Hodgett since
the vacation?"

"No--yes; oh dear, yes, several times!" (It was about five days back.) "She was quite well,
thank you. In town at present, I believe. You were in town during the vacation, I think, Mr
Wartnaby? Did you meet your uncle Sir Thomas there, or any of the family?"

"Sir T-T-Thom...." began young Wartnaby, who stammered terribly.

"I beg your pardon, sir," struck in John Brown, "are you sure Mrs Hodgett is in town? I saw
her in Nottingham myself on Friday; I made my first acquaintance with her there, and a very
charming old lady she is."

Mr Hodgett's confusion could only be rivaled by Mr Brown's perfect self-possession. I began
to see the object of his kind enquiries; so, probably, did the victim himself. The other men
who were present thought, I suppose, that it was only an unfortunate attempt of John's to make
himself agreeable; and while some were amused by it, a more considerate friend kicked my shins
in mistake for his, under the table.

"She certainly told me, sir, she should be going up to London in a few weeks, to purchase her
winter stock, I think she said; but I did not understand that she was to be there now."

John had got on thus far before his enemy could rally at all; but the dean grew desperate,
and resolved to make a diversion at all hazards; and as he reached his hand out, apparently
in quest of a slice of toast, cup, saucer, and a pile of empty plates, went crashing on the floor.

"Bless me, how very awkward!" said he, with a face as red as fire.

"Never mind, sir," said a freshman from Shrewsbury, just entered who had not opened his lips
before, and thought it a good opportunity; "it's all for the good of trade."

Never was a stale jest so unconsciously pointed in its application. Brown laughed of course,
and so did we all; while the dean tried to cover his confusion by wiping his clothes--the cup
having been an empty one. The freshman, seeing our amusement, thought he had said a very good
thing, and began to talk very fast; but nobody listened to him.

"Talking of trade," mercilessly continued the tormentor, "I was uncommonly pleased with Nottingham
the other day. Your brother-in-law, Mr Mogg, was exceedingly civil to me, (I took the liberty
of mentioning your name, sir;) he showed me the whole process of stocking-making; very interesting
indeed it is--but of course you have seen it often; and I really think, for a small establishment,
Mr Mogg's is one of the best conducted I ever saw. You don't know Mr Mogg, Hawthorne, do you?
Get the dean to give you a letter to him, if you ever go to Nottingham; a very good sort of
man he is, and has his whole heart in his business. 'Some men are ashamed of their trade, sir'
said he; 'I a'n't. What should I do, I should like to know, if trade was ashamed of me?' And
really Mrs Mogg"----

"Ah yes!" said Mr Hodgett, hitherto overwhelmed by John's eloquence, (he never talked so fast,)
and utterly at a loss how to meet it, "Mogg is a great man in his line at Nottingham. I shouldn't
wonder if he was member some day; he has a large wholesale connexion."

"And retail, too, sir," chimed in John. "I bought six pair of the nicest sort of stockings
there I have seen for a long time: did I show them to you, Hawthorne? 'These,' said Mr Mogg,
'I can recommend; I always'"----

"If you won't take any more coffee, gentlemen," said the dean, jumping up and looking at his
watch, "I am afraid, as I have an appointment at ten"----

"I declare, so have I," said Brown; "but I had quite forgotten it, our conversation has been
so very agreeable. Good-morning, sir; and if you are writing to Mrs Hodgett, pray make my compliments."
And with this Parthian shaft he quitted the field.

Having adjusted the difficult questions which are apt to arise as to the ownership of caps
and gowns, the rest of the party took leave. The facetious freshman, after putting in an ineffectual
claim upon one or two of the most respectable of the caps, at last marched off with the dean's,
as being certainly more like the new one he had bought the day before, than the dilapidated
article with a broken board and half a tassel, which was the tempting alternative, and possessing
also the common property of having a red seal in it. He was not allowed, however, to remain
long in peaceful possession of his prize. Scarcely had he reached his rooms, when Robert, the
dean's scout, came to inform him that he had left his own cap (which Robert presented to him
with a grin) behind him, and taken away Mr Hodgett's in mistake; enlightening him, at the same
time, as to the fact, that fellows' caps, by special exemption, were "not transferable." And
when he ventured to send back by Robert an apology, to the effect that the very ancient specimen
could not at all events be his, and a humble request that the dean would endeavour to ascertain
which of his friends whom he had met at breakfast had also "made a mistake," that official,
remembering his happy debût as a conversationalist, instantly sent for him, and read him a
severe lecture upon impertinence.

Of course we were no sooner fairly landed in the quadrangle, than all who had any acquaintance
with Brown surrounded him with entreaties for an explanation. What possessed him to make such
a dead set at the dean? How came he to be so well up in the family history? How long had he
had the pleasure of an acquaintance with dear old Mrs Hodgett? And who introduced him to Mr Mogg?

It turned out that John had made an expedition to Nottingham during the vacation on purpose;
he had called on the old lady, whose address he had with some difficulty obtained; presented
his card, "Mr John Brown, ---- Coll.;" stated that he was a stranger, very desirous to see
the lions of Nottingham, of which he had heard so much; and having the honour of knowing her
son, and the advantage of being at the same college with him, and having so often heard her
name mentioned in their many conversations, that he almost felt as if she was his intimate
acquaintance, had ventured to intrude upon her with a request that she would put him in the
way of seeing the town and its manufactures to the best advantage. Much taken, no doubt, by
John's polite address, which by his own recapitulation of it must have been highly insinuating,
and delighted to see any one who could talk to her about her son, and to learn that she herself
was talked about among his grand friends in Oxford, the worthy Mrs Hodgett begged John Brown
to walk in; and finding that there was nothing high about him, and that he listened with the
greatest interest to all her family details and reminiscences, she took courage to ask him
to eat a bit of dinner with her and her daughter at two o'clock, after which she promised him
the escort of her son-in-law, Mr Mogg, the principal (that was what they called them up at
Nottingham, just as they did in Oxford, she observed) of the great stocking-house over the
way. Such a man he was! she said; every bit as good as a book to a stranger; "he knowed every
think and every body." John assured her such universal knowledge was not common among principals
of houses in Oxford; and declared that he should appreciate the services of such a guide proportionately.
And as an introduction to the whole family was just the thing he wanted, he at once accepted
the invitation with many thanks. In short, an arrangement was made which pleased all parties;
all, that is, with the exception of Mr Spriggins, the head shopman, who usually took his meals
with the family, but on that day, to his great disgust, not being considered of quality to
meet their unexpected guest, (not being a principal,) received intimation that his dinner would
be served in the counting-house. The dinner passed off, no doubt, much more satisfactorily
than more formal affairs of the kind. John had a good appetite and good-humour, and so had
the old lady; and no doubt, even in Miss Hodgett's eyes, the young Oxonian was no bad substitute
for Mr Spriggins. Even that gentleman, could he have foreseen all that was to follow from this
visit, would have exchanged for his blandest smile the stern glance with which he regarded,
from the little back window of the counting-house, the procession of John, with Miss Hodgett
under his arm, from the drawing-room, to take the seat which should have been his; would have
made him his most obsequious bow, and regarded him as the best customer that had ever come
inside their doors.

But perhaps I am wronging Mr Spriggins in assuming that he thought the usurper of his rights
worthy of a glance at all: and certainly I am anticipating my story. John dined with the old
lady; drank her currant wine in preference to her port, ate her seed biscuits, and when Mr
Mogg, in pursuance of a message from his mother-in-law, called to renew in his own person the
offer to show his relation's distinguished friend, (Mrs Hodgett had hinted her suspicions that
John Brown was a nobleman,) he was ready, though rather sleepy, to commence his lionizing.
Mr Mogg was exceedingly civil, showed him every thing worth seeing, from the castle to the
stocking-frames; and by the time they returned together to supper at the old lady's, they had
become very thick indeed. John called the next day and took his leave of both parties, with
a promise not to pass through Nottingham without renewing his acquaintance, and that he would
not fail to mention to his friend the dean how much he had been gratified by his reception;
both which pledges he scrupulously redeemed.

Mr Hodgett's indignation was unbounded; if the united powers of vice-chancellor, doctors, proctors,
and convocation, could, by rummaging up some old statute, have expelled John Brown for paying
a visit to Nottingham, he would have moved the university to strive to effect it. Happily these
powers never are united, or there is no saying what they might not do. So John remained a member
of the college still. The dean seldom looked at him if he could help it; he tried once the
soothing system by praising him at collections, but it only elicited from John a polite enquiry
after Mr and Mrs Mogg.

What man could do to extricate himself from his unfortunate position, the dean did. He wrote
off immediately to his mother, entreating her, by her hopes of his advancement in life, not
to allow the name of Hodgett to be any longer contaminated by any touch of linen-drapery. He
suggested that she should at once make over the business to her foreman, Spriggins, reserving
to herself an interest in the profits, and retire to a small and genteel cottage in the suburbs,
where no impertinent intruder could detect the linen-draper's widow. She, worthy old soul,
though it did grieve her, no doubt, to part with her shop, in which were centred the interests
and associations of so many years, yet would have set fire to it with her own hands, and emigrated
to America--though she knew it only as a place where banks always broke, and people never paid
their debts--if it could in anyway have furthered his interests whom she loved better than
he deserved. She always looked upon him as a gentleman, and did not wonder he wished to be
one, though she herself had no manner of taste for becoming a lady.

But in the simplicity of her heart, she planned that even this sacrifice to her motherly affection
might be turned to some account in the way of trade. Accordingly, there appeared in the Nottingham
Herald an advertisement, extending across two columns, headed with imposing capitals, by which
the public were informed that Mrs Hodgett being about to decline her long-established linen-drapery
business in favour of Mr Spriggins, the whole stock was to be turned into ready money immediately,
"considerably below prime cost;" by which means the public had no doubt an opportunity of giving
full value to Mrs H. for sundry old-fashioned patterns and faded remnants, which the incoming
Spriggins would otherwise have "taken to" for a mere song.

Now, since the time that John Brown began first to take so deep an interest in the Hodgett
family, he had regularly invested fourpence weekly in a copy of the Nottingham Herald. By this
means he had the satisfaction of congratulating the dean upon the birth of a nephew, in the
person of a son and heir of the Moggs: and though so carefully did that gentleman avoid all
communication with his tormentor, that he was obliged for two whole days to watch an opportunity
to convey the intelligence; yet, as he finally succeeded in announcing it in the presence of
the tutor of a neighbouring college, who was a profound genealogist and a great gossip, his
pains, he declared, were sufficiently repaid. The eagerness with which he pounced upon the
advertisement may be imagined; and finding, from a little N. B. at the bottom, that handbills
with further particulars were to be had at the office, he lost no time in procuring half a
dozen by post; and one morning the usual receptacles for university notices, the hall-door
and the board by the buttery, were placarded with staring announcements, in red and black letters,
six inches long, of Mrs HODGETT'S speculation. One was pushed under the dean's door; one stuck
under the knocker at the principal's; one put into the college letterbox for "the senior common-room;"
in short, had good Mrs Hodgett herself wished to have the college for her customers, she could
hardly have distributed them more judiciously.

In short, no pains were spared by John Brown to tease and worry the dean with all the particulars
of his family history, which he would most have wished to bury in oblivion. And to do him justice,
he in his turn spared no pains to get rid of John Brown. He would have allowed him to cut lectures
and chapels ad libitum, if he thus could have spared all personal intercourse, and escaped
his detested civilities. Finding that would not do, he tried the opposite course, and endeavoured
either to get him rusticated at once, or to disgust him with the college, and thus induce him
to take his name off. John was cautious--very cautious; but a war against the powers that be,
is always pretty much of an uphill game; and so at last it proved in his case.

John had another enemy in the college, of his own making too; this was Mr Silver, the junior
tutor. He was a man of some scholarship and much conceit; took a first class when very young,
having entered college a mere schoolboy, and read hard; got his appointment as tutor soon after,
and sneered at older men on the strength of it. He pretended to be exceedingly jocular and
familiar with his pupils, but was really always on the alarm for his dignity. His great delight
was to impress the freshmen with an idea of his abilities and his condescension. "Always come
to me, Mr ----, if you find any difficulties in your reading--I shall be most happy to assist
you." This language, repeated to all in turn, was, not unnaturally, literally understood by
the matter-of-fact John Brown; who, perhaps, could see no good reason why a college tutor should
not be ready to aid, as far as he could, the private studies of those who are so often in want
of sensible advice and encouragement. However, it did not occur to him, when he took up to
Mr Silver's rooms one morning after lecture, a passage that had puzzled him, that he was doing
a very odd thing, and that the tutor thought so. As these consultations became more frequent,
however, he began to perceive, what other men were not slow to tell him, that Mr Silver thought
him a bore. And the moment this flashed upon him, with his unfortunate antipathy to any thing
like humbug, he began another war of independence. He selected crabbed passages; got them up
carefully by the help of translations, scholiasts, and clever friends; and then took them up
hot to Mr Silver. And when he detected him slurring a difficulty instead of explaining it,
or saying there was no difficulty at all, John would bring up against him his array of objections
to this or that rendering, and arguments for and against various readings, &c., till Mr Silver
found himself fairly out of his depth. At first this puzzled him, and he very nearly committed
the mistake of pronouncing John Brown a first-rate scholar in the common-room; but when he
found his performance at lecture did not by any means keep pace with the remarkable erudition
sometimes displayed by him in private, he began in his turn to suspect the trick. He dared
not refuse to play his part, when called upon, in these learned discussions, though he dreaded
them more and more; for his college reputation was at stake, and there were some among the
older fellows who looked upon him as rather an assuming young man for understanding what they
did not pretend to, and would have been glad to have had a joke against him; but he began cordially
to hate John Brown; he gave him all the difficult bits he could at lecture; sneered at him
when he dared; and practised all those amiable embellishments which make schoolmasters and
tutors usually so beloved, and learning in all its branches so delightful.

It is not to be wondered at, then, if John's kind friends somewhat damaged his reputation among
the Dons, and watched their opportunity to annihilate him. It came, and they were down upon
him at once. Some half-dozen noisy men, the survivors of a supper-party, had turned into Brown's
rooms (he seldom sat up so late) for a parting cigar. Having accomplished this, they took it
into their heads to dance a quadrille in the middle of the covered thoroughfare, for the benefit
of the echo, to the music of six individual tunes sung in chorus. So strange a performance
brought down some of the fellows; the men were not recognised, but traced to Brown's rooms.
He refused to give up their names--was declared contumacious; and, in spite of the good-natured
remonstrances of the principal and one or two of the others, his enemies obtained a majority
in the common-room; and it was decided that John Brown was too dangerous a character to be
allowed to remain in college during vacation. But they had not got rid of him yet.

About two miles out of Oxford, on the C---- road, if any one takes the trouble to turn up a
narrow lane, and then follow a footpath by the side of the canal, he will come to one of the
most curious-looking farmhouses that he (or at least I) ever met with. It is a large rambling
uninhabited-looking place; the house, as is not unusual, forming one side of a square enclosure,
of which the barns and outhouses make up the rest. The high blank walls of these latter, pierced
only here and there by two or three of the narrowest possible lancet-holes, give it something
the air of a fortification. Indeed, if well garrisoned, it would be almost as strong a post
as the Chateau of Hougoumont; with this additional advantage, that it has a moat on two sides
of it, and a canal, only divided from it by a narrow towing-path, on a third. The front (for
it has a front, though, upon my first visit, it took me some time to find it, it being exactly
on the opposite side to the approach at present in use, and requiring two pretty deep ditches
to be crossed, in order to get at it from the direction)--the front only has any regular windows;
and of these, most of the largest are boarded up, (some, indeed, more substantially closed
with brick and mortar) in order to render it as independent as possible of the glazier and
the assessor of taxes. There is a little bridge, very much decayed, thrown across the narrow
moat to what was, in former days, the main entrance; but now the door was nailed up, the bridge
ruinous, and the path leading to it no longer distinguishable in the long rank grass that covered
the wet meadows upon which the house looked out. It was a place that filled you involuntarily
with melancholy feelings; it breathed of loneliness and desolation, changed times and fallen
fortunes.

Brown and I, in some of our peregrinations, had stumbled upon this old house; and after having
walked round it, and speculated upon its history, made our way through an open door into the
spacious court-yard. If the outside looked desolate, however, the interior was lively enough:
cattle, pigs, geese, ducks, and all the ordinary appurtenances of a well-stocked farm, gave
token that the old place was still tenanted; and a large mastiff, who stalked towards us with
a series of enquiring growls, evidently demanding our business, and suspicious of our good
intentions, made us not at all sorry to see a stout good-natured-looking dame, a perfect contradiction
to the poet's woe-worn "Mariana," who, after bidding Boxer hold his noise, volunteered a compendious
history of herself and husband in answer to our simple question as to the name of the place.
How good Farmer Nutt and herself had lived there for the last seventeen years; how the old
place belonged to Squire somebody, and folks said that some gentry used to live in it in times
past; what a lonesome-like life they thought it when they first came, after living in the gay
town of Abingdon; how, by degrees, they got to think it pretty comfortable, and found the plashy
meadows good pasturage, and the house "famous and roomy-like;" this, and much besides, did
we listen to patiently, the more so because an attempt or two at interruption only served to
widen the field of her discourse. The wind-up of it all, however, was, that we were asked to
walk in and sit down, and so we did. A civil farmer's wife, a very common character in most
parts of England, is, I am sorry to say, somewhat too much of a rarity about Oxford; whether
their tempers are too severely tried by the "fast men," who hunt drags and ride steeple-chases
to the detriment of young wheat and new-made fences; or by the reading-men, who, in their innocence,
make pertinacious visits in search of strawberries and cream in the month of March, or call
for the twentieth time to enquire the nearest way to Oxford, (being ignorant of all topography
but that of ancient Rome and Athens;) or whether they regard all gownsmen as embryo parsons
and tithe-owners, and therefore hereditary enemies; whatever be the reason, it generally requires
some tact to establish any thing like a friendly relation with a farmer or his wife in the
neighbourhood of the university. However, Mrs Nutt was an exception; and nothing could exceed
the heartiness with which she set out her best wheaten bread and rich Gloucester cheese, and
particular ale--an advance towards further acquaintance which we met with due readiness. In
short, so well were we pleased with the good dame's hospitable ways, and her old-fashioned
house, and even with her good-humoured loquacity, that our first visit was not our last. The
farmer himself, a quiet, good-natured, honest yeoman of about sixty, who said very little indeed
when his wife was present, (he had not much chance,) but could, when disposed, let out many
a droll story of "College Gents" in bygone days, when he was a brewer's apprentice at Abingdon,
came, by invitation, to taste the college tap, and carried home in each pocket a bottle of
wine for "the missus."

When John Brown, Esquire, found his intentions of wintering within the walls of ---- so unexpectedly
defeated, he cast about diligently in his own mind for a resting-place for himself, his books,
and a nondescript animal which he called a Russian terrier. Home he was determined not to go--any
where within the boundaries of the University, the College were equally determined he should
not stay; and we all settled that he would fix himself for the vacation either at Woodstock,
or Ensham, or Abingdon; the odds were in favour of the latter place, for John was a good judge
of ale. It was not, therefore, without considerable astonishment that one morning, at breakfast
in my room, after devouring in rigid silence a commons of broiled ham for two, and the last
number of Pickwick, (John seldom laughed, but read "Boz" as gravely as he would Aristotle,)
we heard him open his heart as follows:--

"I say, old fellow, where do you think I am going to put up this vacation?"

"Really, John, you're such an odd fellow it's impossible to guess; if it had been summer, I
shouldn't have been at all surprised to hear of your having pitched a tent at Bullingdon, or
hired a house-boat, and lived Chinese fashion on the river; but I suppose you would hardly
think of that plan at this time of the year."

"Nonsense, man; you know the Moated Grange, as you call it--old Nutt's!--I've taken lodging there."

"The Grange! Well, there's no accounting for tastes; but if there were any empty rooms in the
county jail, I almost think I should prefer them, especially when one might possibly get board
and lodging there gratis."

"Don't be absurd; I shall be very comfortable there. I'm to have two rooms up-stairs, that
will look very habitable when they've cleaned down the cobwebs, and got rid of the bats; Farmer
Nutt is going to lay poison for the rats to-night, and I can go in, if I like, on Monday."

"Upon my honour, John, Chesterton and I can never come and see you in that miserable hole."

"Don't, then; I'm going there to read: I sha'n't want company."

It turned out that he was really in earnest; and the day after the University term was ended,
the Grange received its new tenant. We went down there to instal him; it was the first time
Chesterton had seen the place, and he was rather envious of our friend's selection, as he followed
him up-stairs into the quaint old chambers, to which two blazing log-fires, and Mrs Nutt's
unimpeachable cleanliness, had imparted an air of no little comfort. The old oaken floor of
the sitting-room had been polished to something like its original richness and brilliancy of
hue, and reflected the firelight in a way that warmed you to look at it. There was not a cobweb
to be seen; and though old Bruin snuffed round the room suspiciously, Farmer Nutt gave it as
his conscientious opinion that every rat had had a taste of the "pyson." There was no question
but that if one could get over the dulness of the place, as far as accommodation went there
need be little cause to complain.

"I shall get an 18-gallon of Hall and Tawney, and hire an easy-chair," said John, "and then
won't I read?"

Full of these virtuous resolutions we left him; and how he got on there my readers shall hear
another day.

                                        H.

THE TOMBLESS MAN. A DREAM.

BY DELTA.

    I.

    I woke from sleep at midnight, all was dark,
    Solemn, and silent, an unbroken calm;
    It was a fearful vision, and had made
    A mystical impression on my mind;
    For clouds lay o'er the ocean of my thoughts
    In vague and broken masses, strangely wild;
    And grim imagination wander'd on
    'Mid gloomy yew-trees in a churchyard old,
    And mouldering shielings of the eyeless hills,
    And snow-clad pathless moors on moonless nights,
    And icebergs drifting from the sunless Pole,
    And prostrate Indian villages, when spent
    The rage of the hurricane has pass'd away,
    Leaving a landscape desolate with death;
    And as I turn'd me to my vanish'd dream,
    Clothed in its drapery of gloom, it rose
    Upon my spirit, dreary as before.

    II.

    Alone--alone--a desolate dreary wild,
    Herbless and verdureless; low swampy moss,
    Where tadpoles grew to frogs, for leagues begirt
    My solitary path. Nor sight nor sound
    Of moving life, except a grey curlew--
    As shrieking tumbled on the timid bird,
    Aye glancing backward with its coal-black eye,
    Even as by imp invisible pursued--
    Was seen or heard; the last low level rays
    Of sunset, gilded with a blood-red glow
    That melancholy moor, with its grey stones
    And stagnant water-pools. Aye floundering on,
    And on, I stray'd, finding no pathway, save
    The runlet of a wintry stream, begirt
    With shelvy barren rocks; around, o'erhead,
    Yea every where, in shapes grotesque and grim,
    Towering they rose, encompassing my path,
    As 'twere in savage mockery. Lo, a chasm
    Yawning, and bottomless, and black! Beneath
    I heard the waters in their sheer descent
    Descending down, and down; and further down
    Descending still, and dashing: Now a rush,
    And now a roar, and now a fainter fall,
    And still remoter, and yet finding still,
    For the white anguish of their boiling whirl,
    No resting-place. Over my head appear'd,
    Between the jagged black rifts bluely seen,
    Sole harbinger of hope, a patch of sky,
    Of deep, clear, solemn sky, shrining a star
    Magnificent; that, with a holy light,
    Glowing and glittering, shone into the heart
    As 'twere an angel's eye. Entranced I stood,
    Drinking the beauty of that gem serene,
    How long I wist not; but, when back to earth
    Sank my prone eyes--I knew not where I was--
    Again the scene had shifted, and the time,
    From midnight to the hour when earliest dawn
    Gleams in the orient, and with inky lines
    The trees seem painted on the girding sky.

    III.

    A solemn hour!--so silent, that the sound
    Even of a falling leaflet had been heard,
    Was that, wherein, with meditative step,
    With uncompanion'd step, measured and slow,
    And wistful gaze, that to the left, the right,
    Was often turn'd, as if in secret dread
    Of something horrible that must be met--
    Of unseen evil not to be eschew'd--
    Up a long vista'd avenue I wound,
    Untrodden long, and overgrown with moss.
    It seem'd an entrance to the hall of gloom;
    Grey twilight, in the melancholy shade
    Of the hoar branches, show'd the tufted grass
    With globules spangled of the fine night-dew--
    So fine--that even a midge's tiny tread
    Had caused them trickle down. Funereal yews
    Notch'd with the growth of centuries, stretching round
    Dismal in aspect, and grotesque in shape,
    Pair after pair, were ranged: where ended these,
    Girdling an open semicircle, tower'd
    A row of rifted plane-trees, inky-leaved
    With cinnamon-colour'd barks; and, in the midst,
    Hidden almost by their entwining boughs,
    An unshut gateway, musty and forlorn;
    Its old supporting pillars roughly rich
    With sculpturings quaint of intermingled flowers.

    IV.

    Each pillar held upon its top an urn,
    Serpent-begirt; each urn upon its front
    A face--and such a face! I turn'd away--
    Then gazed again--'twas not to be forgot:--
    There was a fascination in the eyes--
    Even in their stony stare; like the ribb'd sand
    Of ocean was the eager brow; the mouth
    Had a hyena grin; the nose, compress'd
    With curling sneer, of wolfish cunning spake;
    O'er the lank temples, long entwisted curls
    Adown the scraggy neck in masses fell;
    And fancy, aided by the time and place,
    Read in the whole the effigies of a fiend--
    Who, and what art thou? ask'd my beating heart--
    And but the silence to my heart replied!
    That entrance pass'd, I found a grass-grown court,
    Vast, void, and desolate--and there a house,
    Baronial, grim, and grey, with Flemish roof
    High-pointed, and with aspect all forlorn:--
    Four-sided rose the towers at either end
    Of the long front, each coped with mouldering flags:
    Up from the silent chimneys went no smoke;
    And vacantly the deep-brow'd windows stared,
    Like eyeballs dead to daylight. O'er the gate
    Of entrance, to whose folding-doors a flight
    Of steps converging led, startled I saw,
    Oh, horrible! the same reflected face
    As that on either urn--but gloomier still
    In shadow of the mouldering architrave.

    V.

    I would have turn'd me back--I would have fled
    From that malignant, yet half-syren smile;
    But magic held me rooted to the spot,
    And some inquisitive horror led me on.--
    Entering I stood beneath the spacious dome
    Of a round hall, vacant, save here and there,
    Where from the panelings, in mouldy shreds,
    Hung what was arras loom-work; weather-stains
    In mould appear'd on the mosaic floors,
    Of marble black and white--or what was white,
    For time had yellow'd all; and opposite,
    High on the wall, within a crumbling frame
    Of tarnish'd gold, scowl'd down a pictured form
    In the habiliments of bygone days--
    With ruff, and doublet slash'd, and studded belt--
    'Twas the same face--the Gorgon curls the same,
    The same lynx eye, the same peak-bearded chin,
    And the same nose, with sneering upward curl.

    VI.

    Again I would have turned to flee--again
    Tried to elude the snares around my feet;
    But struggling could not--though I knew not why,
    Self-will and self-possession vaguely lost.--
    Horror thrill'd through me--to recede was vain;
    Fear lurk'd behind in that sepulchral court,
    In its mute avenue and grave-like grass;
    And to proceed--where led my onward way?
    Ranges of doorways branch'd on either side,
    Each like the other:--one I oped, and lo!
    A dim deserted room, its furniture
    Withdrawn; gray, stirless cobwebs from the roof
    Hanging; and its deep windows letting in
    The pale, sad dawn--than darkness drearier far.
    How desolate! Around its cornices
    Of florid stucco shone the mimic flowers
    Of art's device, carved to delight the eyes
    Of those long since but dust within their graves!
    The hollow hearth-place, with its fluted jambs
    Of clammy Ethiop marble, whence, of yore,
    Had risen the Yule-log's animating blaze
    On festal faces, tomb-like, coldly yawn'd;
    While o'er its centre, lined in hues of night,
    Grinn'd the same features with the aspick eyes,
    And fox-like watchful, though averted gaze,
    The haunting demon of that voiceless home!

    VII.

    How silent! to the beating of my heart
    I listen'd, and nought else around me heard.
    How stirless! even a waving gossamer--
    The mazy motes that rise and fall in air--
    Had been as signs of life; when, suddenly,
    As bursts the thunder-peal upon the calm,
    Whence I had come the clank of feet was heard--
    A noise remote, which near'd and near'd, and near'd--
    Even to the threshold of that room it came,
    Where, with raised hands, spell-bound, I listening stood;
    And the door opening stealthily, I beheld
    The embodied figure of the phantom head,
    Garb'd in the quaint robes of the portraiture--
    A veritable fiend, a life in death!

    VIII.

    My heart stood still, though quickly came my breath;
    Headlong I rush'd away, I knew not where;
    In frenzied hast rushing I ran; my feet
    With terror wing'd, a hell-hound at my heels,
    Yea! scarce three strides between us. Through a door
    Right opposite I flew, slamming its weight,
    To shut me from the spectre who pursued:
    And lo! another room, the counterpart
    Of that just left, but gloomier. On I rush'd,
    Beholding o'er its hearth the grinning face,
    Another and the same; the haunting face
    Reflected, as it seem'd, from wall to wall!
    There, opening as I shut, onward he came,
    That Broucoloka, not to be escaped,
    With measured tread unwearied, like the wolf's
    When tracking its sure prey: forward I sprang,
    And lo! another room--another face,
    Alike, but gloomier still; another door,
    And the pursuing fiend--and on--and on,
    With palpitating heart and yielding knees,
    From room to room, each mirror'd in the last.
    At length I reach'd a porch--amid my hair
    I felt his desperate clutch--outward I flung--
    The open air was gain'd--I stood alone!

    IX.

    That welcome postern open'd on a court--
    Say rather, grave-yard; gloomy yews begirt
    Its cheerless walls; ranges of headstones show'd,
    Each on its hoary tablature, half hid
    With moss, with hemlock, and with nettles rank,
    The sculptured leer of that hyena face,
    Softening as backwards, through the waves of time,
    Receded generations more remote.
    It was a square of tombs--of old, grey tombs,
    (The oldest of an immemorial date,)
    Deserted quite--and rusty gratings black,
    Along the yawning mouths of dreary vaults--
    And epitaphs unread--and mouldering bones.
    Alone, forlorn, the only breathing thing
    In that unknown, forgotten cemetery,
    Reeling, I strove to stand, and all things round
    Flicker'd, and wavering, seem'd to wane away,
    And earth became a blank; the tide of life
    Ebbing, as backward ebbs the billowy sea,
    Wave after wave, till nought is left behind,
    Save casual foam-bells on the barren sand.

    X.

    From out annihilation's vacancy,
    (The elements, as of a second birth,
    Kindling within, at first a fitful spark,
    And then a light which, glowing to a blaze,
    Fill'd me with genial life,) I seemed to wake
    Upon a bed of bloom. The breath of spring
    Scented the air; mingling their odours sweet,
    The bright jonquil, the lily of the vale,
    The primrose, and the daffodil, o'erspread
    The fresh green turf; and, as it were in love,
    Around the boughs of budding lilac wreathed
    The honeysuckle, rich in earlier leaves,
    Gold-tinctured now, for sunrise fill'd the clouds
    With purple glory, and with aureate beams
    The dew-refreshen'd earth. Up, up, the larks
    Mounted to heaven, as did the angel wings
    Of old in Jacob's vision; and the fly,
    Awakening from its wintry sleep, once more
    Spread, humming, to the light its gauzy wings.

    XI.

    A happy being in a happy place,
    As 'twere a captive from his chains released,
    His dungeon and its darkness, there I lay
    Nestling, amid the sun-illumined flowers,
    Revolving silently the varied scenes,
    Grotesque and grim, 'mid which my erring feet
    Had stumbled; and a brightness darting in
    On my mysterious night-mare, something told
    The what and wherefore of the effigies grim--
    The wolfish, never-resting, tombless man,
    Voicelessly haunting that ancestral home--
    Yea of his destiny for evermore
    To suffer fearful life-in-death, until
    A victim suffer'd from the sons of men,
    To soothe the cravings of insatiate hell;
    An agony for age undergone--
    An agony for ages to be borne,
    Hope, still elusive, baffled by despair.

    XII.

    Thus as an eagle, from the altitude
    Of the mid-sky, its pride of place attain'd,
    Glances around the illimitable void,
    And sees no goal, and finds no resting-place
    In the blue, boundless depths--then, silently,
    Pauses on wing, and with gyrations down
    And down descends thorough the blinding clouds,
    In billowy masses, many-hued, around
    Floating, until their confines past, green earth
    Once more appears, and on its loftiest crag
    The nest, wherein 'tis bliss to rest his plumes
    Flight-wearied--so, from farthest dreamland's shores,
    Where clouds and chaos form the continents,
    And reason reigns not, Fancy back return'd
    To sights and sounds familiar--to the birds
    Singing above--and the bright vale beneath,
    With cottages and trees--and the blue sky--
    And the glad waters murmuring to the sun.

FRENCH SOCIALISTS.[28]

Socialism, as well in this country as in France, may be regarded as an offset of the French
Revolution. It is true that, in all times, the striking disparity between the conditions of
men has given rise to Utopian speculations--to schemes of some new order of society, where
the comforts of life should be enjoyed in a more equalized manner than seems possible under
the old system of individual efforts and individual rights; and it may be added that, as this
disparity of wealth becomes more glaring in proportion as the disparity of intelligence and
political rights diminishes, such speculations may be expected in these later times to become
more frequent and more bold. Nevertheless we apprehend that the courage or audacity requisite
to attempt the realization of these speculative schemes, must confess its origin in the fever-heat
of the French Revolution. It required the bold example of that great political subversion to
prompt the design of these social subversions--to familiarize the mind with the project of
reducing into practice what had been deemed sufficiently adventurous as reverie.

What a stride has been taken since those olden times, when the philosophic visionary devised
his Utopian society with all the freedom, because with all the irresponsibility, of dreams!
He so little contemplated any practical result, that he did not even venture to bring his new
commonwealth on the old soil of Europe, lest it should appear too strange, and be put out of
countenance by the broad reality: but he carried it out to some far-off island in the ocean,
and created a new territory for his new people. A chancellor of England, the high administrator
of the laws of property, could then amuse his leisure with constructing a Utopia, where property,
with all its laws, would undergo strange mutation. How would he have started from his woolsack
if any one had told him that his design would be improved upon in boldness, and that such men
as his own carpenter and mason would set about the veritable realization of it! At the present
time nothing is more common or familiar than the project of changing entirely the model of
society. "To subvert a government," writes M. Reybaud of his own country men, "to change a
dynasty or a political constitution, is now an insignificant project. Your socialist is at
peace with kings and constitutions; he merely talks in the quietest manner imaginable of destroying
every thing, of uprooting society from its very basis."

Indeed, if the power of these projectors bore any proportion to their presumption, our neighbours
would be in a most alarming condition. To extemporize a social system, a new humanity, or at
least a new Christianity, is now as common as it was formerly, on leaving college, to rhyme
a tragedy. The social projector, sublimely confident in himself, seems to expect to realize,
on a most gigantic scale, the fable of Mesmerism; he will put the whole world in rapport with
him, and it shall have no will but his, and none but such blind, imitative movements as he
shall impress on it. And it is to a sort of coma that these projectors would, for the most
part, reduce mankind--a state where there is some shadow of thought and passion, but no will,
no self-direction, no connexion between the past and present--a state aimless, evanescent,
and of utter subjugation. Fortunately these social reformers, however daring, use no other
instruments of warfare than speech and pamphlets; they do not betake themselves to the sharp
weapons of political conspiracy. They must be permitted, therefore, to rave themselves out.
And this they will do the sooner from their very number. There are too many prophets; they
spoil the trade; the Mesmerizers disturb and distract each other's efforts; the fixed idea
that is in them will not fix any where else. Those who, in the natural order of things, should
be dupes, aspire to be leaders, and the leaders are at a dead struggle for some novelty wherewith
to attract followers. We have, for instance, M. Pierre Leroux, most distinguished of the Humanitarians,
the last sect which figures on the scene, bidding for disciples--with what, will our readers
think?--with the doctrine of metempsychosis! It is put forward as a fresh inducement to improve
the world we live in, that we shall live in it again and again, and nowhere else, and be our
own most remote posterity. We are not assured that there is any thread of consciousness connecting
the successive apparitions of the same being; yet some slight filament of this kind must be
traceable, for we are informed that M. Leroux gives himself out to have been formerly Plato.
He has advanced thus far in the scale of progression, that he is at present M. Leroux.[29]

Still the frequent agitation of these social reforms cannot be, and has not been, without its
influence on society. It is from this influence they gain their sole importance. Such schemes
as those of St Simon, of Fourier, and of our own Robert Owen, viewed as projects to be realized,
are not worth a serious criticism. In this point of view they are considered, at least in this
country, as mere nullities. No one questions here whether they are feasible, or whether, if
possible, they would be propitious to human happiness. But the constant agitation in society
of such projects may be no nullity--may have, for a season, an indisputable and very pernicious
influence. As systems of doctrine they may not be ineffective, nor undeserving of attention;
and in this light M. Reybaud, in the work we now bring before our readers, mainly considers them.

M. Reybaud has given us a sketch of the biography and opinions of the most celebrated of those
men who have undertaken to produce a new scheme of human life for us; he has introduced his
description of them and their projects by some account of the previous speculations, of a kindred
nature indeed, but conducted in a very different spirit, of Plato, Sir Thomas More, and others;
and he has accompanied the whole with observations of his own, which bear the impress of a
masculine understanding, a candid judgment, and a sound, healthy condition of the moral sentiments.
The French Academy has distinguished the work by according to it the Montyon prize--a prize
destined annually to the publication judged most beneficial to morals; and in this judgment
of the Academy every private reader, unless he has some peculiar morality of his own, will
readily acquiesce.

Our author is not one of those who at once, and without a question, reject all schemes for
the amelioration of society; nor has he sat down to write the history of these social reformers
for the mere purpose of throwing on them his contempt or irony. He has even been accused, it
seems, by some of his critics, of manifesting too much sympathy with the enthusiasts he has
undertaken to describe. He tells us, in the preface to his second edition, that he has encountered
the contradictory accusations of being too severe, and too indulgent, towards them; from which
he concludes, that he cannot have widely departed from the tone which truth and impartiality
would prescribe. This is a conclusion which authors are very apt to draw; they very conveniently
dispatch their several critics by opposing them to each other. But this conclusion may be drawn
too hastily. Two contradictory accusations do not always destroy each other, even when they
are made by judges equally competent. The inconsistency may be in the author himself, who may,
in different portions of his work, have given foundation for very opposite censures. In the
present case, although we have already intimated that M. Reybaud writes with a spirit of fairness
and candour, we cannot admit him to the full benefit of the conclusion he draws in his own
favour, from the opponent criticisms he has met with. There are individual passages in his
work which it would be difficult to reconcile with each other, and which invite very different
criticisms. On some occasions he appears to attribute a certain value to these tentatives at
social reform, and intimates that they may probably be the precursors, or may contain the germ,
of some substantial improvement; whilst at other times, he scourges them without pity or compunction,
as a species of moral pestilence. He seems not to have been able, at all moments, to defend
himself from the vertige which possesses the personages of whom he is writing; like a certain
historian of witchcraft, whom we have somewhere read of, who had so industriously studied his
subject that a faith in the black art imperceptibly gained upon him. The narrative goes on
to say, that the unfortunate historian of witchcraft attempted to practise the knowledge he
had obtained, and was burned for a wizard. But there the analogy will certainly fail. M. Reybaud
soon recovers from the visionary mood, and wakes himself thoroughly by inflicting the lash
with renewed vigour upon all the other dreamers around him.

This shadow of inconsistency is still more perceptible when speaking of the lives and characters
of his socialists. Sometimes the reader receives the impression that an egregious vanity, an
eccentric ambition, and perhaps a little touch of monomania, would complete the picture, and
sufficiently explain that conduct, of a hero of socialism. At another time his enthusiasts
assume a more imposing aspect. St Simon sacrificing his fortune, abjuring the patronage of
the court, dying in extreme poverty--Charles Fourier refusing all entrance into commerce that
would implicate him with a vicious system, and pursuing to the end, amidst want and ridicule,
the labours of social regeneration--our own Robert Owen quitting ease and fortune, and crossing
the Atlantic for the New World, there to try, upon a virgin soil, his bold experiment of a
new society;--these men rise before us endowed with a certain courage and devotion which ought
to command our admiration. We see them in the light of martyrs to a faith which no one shares
with them--sacrificing all, enduring all, for a hope which is of this world, for schemes which
they will never see realized, for a heaven which they may prophesy, but which they cannot enter;
manifesting, in short, the same obstinacy of idea, and the same renouncement of self, which
distinguish the founders of new religions. And indeed we are not disposed to deny, that in
their character they may bear a comparison, in many points, with religious impostors. There
is this striking difference, however, in the effect of their teaching: the religious impostor
has often promised a paradise of merely voluptuous enjoyment, but he has promised it as the
reward of certain self-denying virtues to be practised here on earth; whilst the socialist
insists upon bringing his sensual ill-ordered paradise, wherein all virtue is dispensed with
as superfluous, here, at once, upon this earth we have to live and toil in.

The first volume of the work contains an account of the life and writings of St Simon, Fourier,
and Owen. The second is very miscellaneous. We encounter, to our surprise, the name of Jeremy
Bentham in the category of socialists, and are still more startled to learn that the Utilitarians
derive their origin from Robert Owen! It is a jumble of all sects, religious and political,
in which even our Quakers are included in the list of social reformers--our excellent Friends,
who assuredly have no wish whatever to disturb the world, but seek merely to live in it as
it is, with the additional advantage of being themselves particularly quiet and comfortable.
But we are so accustomed to the haste of negligence of the majority of French writers whenever
they leave their own soil, (unless the literature or concerns of a foreign country be their
special subject,) that we are not disposed to pass any very severe censure on M. Reybaud; and
still less should we do him the injustice to prejudge his qualifications as an historian of
his own countrymen, by the measure of accuracy he may display in that part of his work which
relates to England. It is a part of his work which we have but slightly perused; our attention
has been confined to the socialists of France.

Amongst these founders of society, and constructors of Mahometan paradises, Fourier is, we
believe, the least known in this country. Some brief account of him will, we think, be acceptable;
more especially as some of his ideas, leaving the narrow circle of his disciples, have found
partisans amongst men who, in other respects, have a reputation for sobriety of thought. Our
readers need not fear that we shall overwhelm them with all the institutions, plans, projects,
arrangements--the complete cosmogony, in short, of this most laborious of the tribe. A very
little of such matter is quite enough. One may say with truth that it is such stuff,

    "Whereof a little more than a little
    Is by much too much."

Nothing is more charming to the imagination than the first general idea of some new community,
where all men are to be happy, every body active, benevolent, reasonable. But the moment we
leave this general idea, enter upon particulars, and set about the arrangements necessary for
this universally comfortable state of things, there is nothing in the world more tedious and
oppressive. Proposals for new political institutions are sufficiently wearisome; but proposals
for earthly elysiums, which are to embrace the whole circle of human affairs, become insupportably
dull. It is child's play, played with heavy granite boulders. No; if we were capable of being
seduced for a moment into the belief of some golden age of equality, where a parental government,
presiding over all, should secure the peace and prosperity of all, we should need no other
argument to recover us from the delusion than simply to read on, and learn how this parental
government intends to accomplish its purpose. When we find that, in order to be relieved from
domestic cares, we are to have no home at all; that our parental government, in order to provide
for our children, begins by taking them away from us; when we picture to ourselves the sort
of wooden melancholy figures we must become, (something like the large painted dolls in a Dutch
garden, stuck here and there without choice or locomotion of their own,) we speedily lose all
inclination to enter upon this discipline of happiness. We quit with haste this enchanted garden,
which turns out to be an enormous piece of clockwork, and embrace with renewed content the
old state of personal freedom, albeit attended with many personal inconveniences. Whilst reading
of Utopian schemes, the idea has very vividly occurred to us: suppose that some such society
as this, where land and wives, money and children, are all in common, had been for a long time
in existence, and that some clever Utopian had caught an inkling of the old system so familiar
to us, and had made the discovery that it would be possible, without dissolving society, to
have a wife of one's own, a house of one's own, land and children of one's own. Imagine, after
an age of drowsy clockwork existence, one of these philosophers starting the idea of a free
society, of a social organization based upon individual rights and individual effort--where
property should not only be possessed, but really enjoyed--where men should for the first time
stretch their limbs, and strain their faculties, and strive, and emulate, and endure, and encounter
difficulties, and have friendships. What a commotion there would be! How would the younger
sort, rebelling against the old rotten machine in which they had been incarcerated, form themselves
into emigrating bands, and start forth to try upon some new soil their great experiment of
a free life! How would they welcome toil in all its severity--how willingly practise abstinence,
and suffer privation, for the sake of the bold rights which these would purchase!--how willingly
take upon themselves the responsibility of their own fate to enjoy a fortune of their own shaping!
Hope herself would start from the earth where she had been so long buried, and waving her rekindled
torch, would lead on to the old race of life!

Charles Fourier was the son of a woollen-draper at Besançon. Two circumstances in his early
history appear to have made a strong impression upon him. When he was a child, he contradicted,
in his father's shop, some customary falsehood of the trade, and with great simplicity revealed
the truth; for this he was severely reprimanded. Afterwards, when he was of the age of nineteen,
and a clerk in a merchant's house at Marseilles, he was present at a voluntary submersion of
grain, made in order to raise the price in the market. These circumstances, he used to say,
opened his eyes to the nature of human relations. Falsehood and selfishness, systematic falsehood
and selfishness without a shadow of scruple, were at the basis of all our commercial dealings.
It was time, he thought, that a new order of things should arise, founded upon veracity and
a harmony of interests.

For himself, his part was taken. He became the man of one idea. "We might rather say of him,"
writes M. Reybaud, "that he traversed the world, than that he lived in it." He refused to enter
into any commercial dealings that might implicate him in the existing system, and warp his
feelings in favour of it; and exercised to the last, for a bare subsistence, the mere mechanical
employment of a copying clerk. He never understood the art of making for himself two separate
existences: one in the domain of fiction or of thought; the other in the land of reality. He
passed all that might be called his life in the ideal world of his own creating.

According to Fourier, there is but one deep and all-pervading cause of the miseries of man:
it is, that he does not comprehend the ways of God, or, in other words, the laws of his own
being. If humanity does not work well, and with the same harmony that the planetary system
exhibits, it is because he is determined to impress upon it other movements than those the
Creator designed. Between the creature and the Creator there has been, as he expresses it,
a misunderstanding for these five thousand years past.

The great error, it seems, that has been committed, is the supposing that there are any passions
of man which require to be restrained. God has made nothing ill--nothing useless. You have
but to let these passions quite loose, and it will be found that they move in a beautiful harmony
of their own. These attractions--such is his favourite word--are as admirably adjusted as those
which rule over the course of the planets. Duty, he says, is human--it varies from epoch to
epoch, from people to people. Attraction--that is to say, passion--is divine; and is the same
amongst all people, civilized and savage, and in all ages, ancient and modern. At present the
passions are compressed, and therefore act unhappily; in future, they shall be free, satisfied,
and shall act according to the law they have received from God. To yield to their impulse is
the only wisdom; to remove whatever obstacles society has placed in the way of their free exercise,
is the great task of the reformer.

Fourier does not hesitate to place himself by the side of Newton, in virtue of his discovery
of this new law of attraction. If any comparison can be made, we think--inasmuch as to unravel
the problem of humanity is a greater task than to elucidate the movements of the planets--that
Fourier was warranted in placing himself infinitely above Newton. Unfortunately, there is this
difference between the two, that Newton's law explains existing phenomena, while Fourier's
explained phenomena that do not exist--that are, however, to exist some day.

Having established his fundamental law of the attraction of the passions, (which, he finds,
amount to the number of twelve, and, in this respect, to bear some occult analogy to the sidereal
system, the prismatic colours, and the gamut,) he has nothing to do but to set them fairly
at work. This he does, and discovers that they form men into delightful communities, or phalanges,
of about eighteen hundred men each. Here nothing shall be wanting. Whether it is love or labour,
attraction supplies all. "Labour will be a charm, a taste, a preference--in short, a passion.
Each man will devote himself to the occupation that he likes--to twenty occupations, if he
likes twenty. A charming rivalry, an enthusiasm always new, will preside over human labour,
when, under the law of attraction, men will be associated by groups, the last social fraction--by
series, which are the association of groups--by phalanges, which are the association of series."--(P.
123.)

The dwelling-place of a phalange will be called a phalanstère--an edifice commodious and elegant,
wherein, while the convenient distribution of the interior will be first considered, the claims
of architecture will not be forgotten. It will be a vast structure of the most beautiful symmetry,
testifying by its magnificence to the splendour of the new life of which it is to be the scene.
Galleries, baths, a theatre, every thing conducive to a pleasurable existence, will be found
in it. A strict equality of wealth is no part of the scheme of our socialist; but every one
will have a sufficiency, and will obtain apartments and provisions in the phalanstère suitable
to his fortune. M. Fourier further guarantees, that there shall be no vanity amongst the rich,
and no mortification felt by the poorer brethren of the establishment.

As to the expense of this phalanstère, M. Fourier undertakes to construct it for what the building
of four hundred miserable cottages would cost, which would not accommodate a much greater number
of individuals, and which would fall to pieces after a few years. And as to housekeeping, would
not one enormous kitchen replace to advantage four hundred small and ill-appointed kitchens?
one vast cellar four hundred little cellars? one gigantic washhouse four hundred damp, wretched
outhouses, not worthy of the name? Add to which, that much may be done in these gigantic kitchens
and washhouses by the judicious introduction of a steam-engine, which might also be employed
in supplying all the apartments with water.

Labour, proceeding with such facility, such ardour, such enthusiasm, as it will do in the phalanstère,
must bring in enormous profits--quadruple, as M. Fourier thinks, of what our present ineffective
means produce. It is in the division of these profits that our socialist has been thought particularly
happy; here it is that he introduces his famous formula, "to associate men in capital, labour,
and talent," (associer les hommes en capital, travail, et talent.) The whole profits of the
community are first to be divided into three portions; one for capital, one for labour, and
one for talent--say four-twelfths for capital, five-twelfths for labour, and three-twelfths
for talent. The portion allotted to the capitalists can create no difficulty--it will be divided
amongst them in proportion to the amount of capital they severally supply. But a difficulty
presents itself in the distribution of the other two portions. Are all species of labour, and
all descriptions of talent, to be equally remunerated, or by what rule shall their several
rewards be determined? M. Fourier declares that the labours necessary to the community shall
be most highly recompensed; then those that are useful; and last of all, those which administer,
as the fine arts, only to pleasure and amusement. For this determination he gives a sound reason,
but one which we ought not to have heard from the centre of a phalanstère; it is, that necessary
labours are nearly all of a repugnant nature, and should therefore be most amply rewarded.

To determine the degree of talent the individual has displayed, the principle of election is
called in. There is, however, a high order of talent which is considered quite apart. Great
artists, great mechanicians, great writers--these belong to no phalange, but to humanity. The
world will charge itself with their remuneration. They will be relieved from the usual condition
of labour; and when, after a long repose, they have produced a work, (how it comes to be known
what bird will lay the golden egg till the egg is laid, we are not told,) then will a jury,
assembled at the metropolis of the world, which will be built on the site of Constantinople,
vote them a recompense. "Imagine, for example, Jacquart or Watt, Newton or Corneille, presenting
themselves before this august tribunal--Jacquart with his loom, Watt with his steam-engine,
Newton with his theory of attractions, Corneille with his most beautiful tragedy. At the instant,
to the exclusion of all delays and hazards of fame, there would be voted to these great men
a remuneration, to be levied on all the phalanges. Suppose only five francs on each phalange,
and that there were five hundred thousand phalanges on the globe, the jury would have accorded
a sum of 2,500,000 francs; Jacquart would not have been compelled to die in a state bordering
on indigence, after having enriched the universe."

Fournier was in person short, thin, and pale, but his melancholy and pensive physiognomy bore
traces of his long, unquiet, and ungrateful labours. A simple clerk, he did not venture, when
he published his writings, to sign them with any other name than that of Charles, declaring
himself ready, under that name, to answer any objections that might be addressed to him. Alas!
there were few objections addressed to him; Charles got no readers; men pitied or ridiculed
him as a visionary. Repulsed by the surrounding world, there remained nothing for him but to
live in that creation of his own, in which, at all events, he reigned supreme. In his reveries
he found his only happiness. He walked glorious in the midst of joyful enthusiastic multitudes,
who saluted him as their benefactor, and proclaimed him as their sovereign; he spoke to these
beings, the children of his dreams, in a language which he alone comprehended; he built his
phalanstère, peopled, organized it; conducted himself the labours of his harmonic groups, founded
his towns, his capitals, nay, his capital of the world, which he erected on the Bosphorus,
uniting the east and west, the north and south. There he placed with his own hand the laurel,
decreed by his million of phalanges, on the brow of the greatest philosopher of his age. "These
festivals of the imagination," says M. Reybaud, "were the only pleasures that relived the long,
and gloomy, and proud poverty of Fourier."

One trait we cannot pass over, as it seems, so to speak, to have a psychological value. Such
was his habit of ordering and arranging all things, that Charles not only undertook to regulate
the affairs of men, and redress the inequalities of their several destinies, but he took into
his consideration the inequalities of the several climates of the earth, and very seriously
occupied himself with redressing their anomalies. To him, as he walked the streets of Paris,
the severe cold of the North Pole was disquieting, and a subject of uneasiness; it was part
of his mission to temper and subdue it, and tame it for the habitation of men. Perhaps the
heat from those gigantic kitchens in his phalanstères might help him in his task. At all events,
this and other gross atmospheric irregularities were not be endured in the world which he was
planning.

There are two things, M. Reybaud remarks, especially reprehensible in the theory of Fourier
and of kindred socialists--First, the confounding happiness with enjoyment, and the legitimating
of all our passions; and Secondly, the egregious expectation of moulding mankind by an external
or social organization, without calling in aid the virtues of the individual. The one necessarily
follows on the other. The chain of error is manifest, and leads, as a chain of error may be
expected to do, to inextricable confusion. If mere enjoyment, if the gratification of our senses
and passions, be the highest aim and condition of the human being, it follows that all moral
discipline, all self-denial, must be regarded as so much defect, so much imperfection, so much
manifest failure in the world-scheme. That lofty gratification which men have been accustomed
to attribute to self-control, to abstinence practised under a sense of duty, or in the cause
of justice, this is to be measured off as so much simple misery, or so much negation of enjoyment.
Let all restraint be discarded: let man be free; but yet, as the good of the whole is to be
consulted in all societies, and in the new society is consulted in an eminent degree, the individual
thus released from all self-control must be ruled despotically, or, if you will, moulded, fashioned,
mechanized by the laws of the community; for we suppose it will be admitted, whatever M. Fourier
tells us of his discovered law of attraction, that a very stringent legislation must bind together
that harmonic society, which begins by giving loose rein to all the passions of mankind. How
the two are to be practically reconciled--how the utmost license of the individual is to be
combined with the utmost and most minute supervision of the laws, we leave the socialist to
determine. Such is the miserable tissue of error and confusion which these projects present
to view.

These socialists are fond of inventing new Christianities, and in some salons in Paris it is,
or was till very lately, the fashion to have a new Christianity propounded every full moon.
New enough! They present at least a sufficient contrast with the old Christianity, and in no
other point more than in this--the complete dependence for the formation of the character of
individuals on the art of grouping and regimenting them. Christianity has supported for ages
monastic institutions, institutions the most counter to the passions of men, solely by its
strong appeal to the individual conscience. St Simonian institutions, or delightful phalanstères,
will in vain flatter every passion and indulge every sense; if they leave the conscience inert,
if nothing is built on the sense of duty, they will no sooner rise but they will crumble back
again into dust.

But we do not touch upon these fundamental errors of the socialists, with the superfluous view
of showing the impossibility of realizing their schemes; we note them because their recognition
demonstrates at once the ill influence which must attend on the teaching and constant agitation
of such schemes. On the one hand, all our desires authorized, and self-control put out of countenance
as a mere marplot; on the other hand, perpetual representations that a government or social
organization could effect every thing, or almost every thing that can be desired for the happiness
of man. What must follow but that men learn to indulge themselves in a very lax morality, and
to make most extravagant demands on the government, or the legislative force of society? Their
notions of right and wrong, and their ideas of the duty and office of government, become equally
unsettled and erroneous.

We have the authority of M. Reybaud--and we could bring other authorities if it were necessary--for
saying that, in France, the habit of attributing the vices of individuals, not to their own
weakness or ungoverned propensities, but to the malorganization of society, has shown itself
in a strange and ominous indulgence to crime. It was the old fashion, he says, upon hearing
of any enormity, to level our indignation against the perpetrator; it is now the mode, to direct
it against that culpable abstraction, society. Society is, indeed, the sole culprit. When the
novelist has detailed some horrible assassination, or gross adultery, he exclaims, Behold what
society has done! The criminal himself passes scathless; if, indeed, he may not put in a claim
to our especial sympathy, as having been peculiarly ill-used by that society, whose duty it
manifestly was to make him wise, and humane, and happy. Man, in his individual capacity, is
not to be severely criticised; the censure falls only upon man in his aggregate and corporate
capacity. Polite, at all events. No one can possibly take offence at reproofs leveled at that
invisible entity, the social body; or suppose for a moment that he is included in the censure.
It used to be thought that the aggregate was made up of individuals, and that, in order to
constitute a well-ordered community, there must be virtuous and well-ordered men. The reverse
is now discovered to be the truth. First, have a well-ordered and divinely happy community,
and then the individual may do as he likes; as our comedian says, "his duties will be pleasures."

It is a perilous habit to fall into at the best--that of regarding the present condition of
society as something doomed to destruction. But the evil is unmistakeable and most pernicious,
when it is proclaimed, that in the new and expected order of things, the old morality will
be entirely superfluous, a mere folly, an infliction on ourselves and others. Why take care
of the old furniture, that will be worse than an incumbrance in the new premises? Why not begin
at once the work of battery and destruction?

The influence which these speculations exert in unsettling men's notions upon the duties of
government, on the first principles of political or social economy, is less glaring, but not,
on this account, the less prejudicial. Men, who are far from embracing entirely any one of
the schemes of these socialists, fall into the habit of looking for the relief and amelioration
of society to some legislative invention, some violent interference with the free and spontaneous
course of human industry. The organization of industry is the phrase now in high repute; repeated,
it is true, with every variety of meaning, but always with the understanding, that government
is to interfere more or less in the distribution of wealth, in the employment of capital, and
the exercise of labour. The first principles on which modern civilization is based, are taxed
as the origin of all the evils that afflict society. All our soundest maxims of political economy
are discarded and disgraced. That each man shall be free in the choice and practice of his
trade or calling--that the field of competition shall be open to all--that each individual
shall be permitted to make the best bargain he can, whether for the wages of his labour or
the price of his commodities--all these trite but invaluable maxims are incessantly decried,
and nothing is heard of but the evils of competition, and the unequal recompense of labour.
In their fits of impotent benevolence, these speculative physicians assail, as the cause of
the existing distress, those principles which, in fact, are the conditions of all the prosperity
we have attained, or can preserve, or can hope in future to attain.

This title of the individual, whether workman or capitalist, to the control and conduct of
his own affairs--this "fair field and no favour" system--is not to be described as if it were
a mere theory of political economy, and disputable like some other branches of a science not
yet matured. It is the great conquest of modern civilization; it is the indispensable condition
to the full development of the activity and enterprise of man. The liberation of the artisan
and the labourer, is the signal triumph of modern over ancient times whether we regard classic
or Gothic antiquity. Viewing things on a large scale, it may be considered as a late triumph;
and, without depreciating its value, we may easily admit that there remains much to be done
in the cultivation of the free artisan, to enable him to govern himself, and make the best
of his position. But any scheme, which, under the pretext of ameliorating his position, would
place him again under tutelage, is a scheme of degradation and a retrograde movement. He is
now a freeman, an enrolled member of a civilized state, where each individual has, to a great
extent, the responsibility thrown upon himself for his own well-being; he must have prospective
cares, and grow acquainted with the thoughtful virtue of prudence. That release from reflection,
and anxiety for the future, which is the compensating privilege of the slave or the barbarian,
he cannot hope any longer to enjoy. Whatever its value, he must renounce it. He must become
one of us, knowing good and evil, looking before and behind. In this direction--in the gradual
improvement of the labourer--lies our future progress, progress slow and toilsome, little suited
to the socialist who calculates on changing, as with the touch of a wand, the whole aspect
of society.

We said that some of the ideas of Charles Fourier had been adopted by men who do not exactly
aspire to the rank of social reformers. We will give an instance, which at the same time will
illustrate this tendency to introduce legislation on those very subjects from which it has
been the effort of all enlightened minds, during the last century, to expel it. A M. Ducpetiaux,
a Belgian, who comes vouched to us for a safe and respected member of society by the number
of titles, official and honorary, appended to his name, in a voluminous and chiefly statistical
work, Sur la Condition des Jeunes Ouvriers, wherein his views are in the main temperate and
judicious, declares himself a partisan of some system similar to what Fourier points out in
his famous formula--associer les hommes en capital, travail, et talent. He requires a union
of interest, a partnership in fact, between the capitalist and the workman. M. Ducpetiaux does
not lay down the proportion in which the profits are to be divided between them; he is too
cautious to give any figures--there are some ideas which do not bear the approach of arithmetic--but
he adopts the principle. It is thus that he speaks in his introductory chapter.

     "In so conflicting a state of things[30] there remains but one
     remedy: to re-establish violated equity, to restore to the
     producers their legitimate share of what is produced, to bring
     back industry to its primitive aim and object--such is the work
     which is now, by the aid of every influence, individual and
     social, to be prosecuted. It is not a partial relief that is
     called for, but the complete restoration (réhabilitation
     complète) of the labourer. The mark which ages of servitude
     have impressed upon his front, cannot be effaced but by an
     energetic and sustained effort. The palliatives hitherto
     employed, have only exposed the magnitude of the evil. This
     evil we must henceforth attack in its origin, in the
     organization of labour, and the constitution of society.

     "What is the existing base of the relations between master and
     workman? Selfishness. Every one for himself, that is, every
     thing for me and nothing, or the least quantity possible, for
     others. Here is the evil. A blind and bitter contest must
     spring from this opposition of interests. To put an end to this
     there is but one means: the recognition of the law of union,
     (la loi de solidarité,) by virtue of which interests will
     amalgamate and divisions disappear. This law is the palladium
     of industry; refuse to acknowledge it, and every thing remains
     in a state of chaos: proclaim it, and every thing is remedied,
     every thing prospers. The capitalist comes in aid of the
     workman as the workman comes in aid of the capitalist; it is a
     common prosperity they enjoy, and if any thing menaces it, they
     are united for its defence. The law of union puts an end to an
     unfeeling employment of our fellow men, (à l'exploitation
     brutale;) it replaces men in their natural position; it
     re-establishes amongst them the relations of respect, esteem,
     and mutual benevolence which Christian fraternity demands; it
     substitutes association for rivalry; it restores to justice her
     empire, and to humanity its beneficence."

Translating all this into simple language, there is to be a partition by the legislature, according
to some rule of natural equity, between the capitalist and the labourer, of the proceeds of
their common enterprise. We confess ourselves utterly incapable of devising any such rule of
equity. The share which falls to the capitalist under the name of profits, and the share which
falls to the labourer under the name of wages, is regulated under the present system by the
free competition amongst the labourers on the one hand, and the capitalists on the other; it
is the result of an unfettered bargain between those who possess capital and those who practise
industry. This is, at all events, an intelligible ground, and has in it a species of rough
equity; but if we desert this position, and appeal to some natural rule of justice to make
the division, we shall find ourselves without any ground whatever. For what are the rights
of capital in the face of any à priori notions of justice? We shall stumble on from one vague
proposition to another, till we find ourselves landed in the revolutionary doctrine of the
equal imprescriptible rights of man. This is the first stage at which we can halt. Judged by
this law of equality, the capitalist is but one man, and capital is but another name for the
last year's harvest, or the buildings, tools, and manufactures which the labourers themselves,
or their predecessors, have produced. The utmost the ex-capitalist could expect--and he must
practise his handicraft before he can be entitled even to this--is to be admitted on a footing
of equality in the extensive firm that would be constituted of his quondam operatives.

We often observe, in this country, an inclination manifested to regulate by law the rate of
wages, not with the view of instituting any such naturally equitable partition, but of establishing
a minimum below which life cannot be comfortably supported. These reasoners proceed, it will
at once be admitted, not on the rights of man, but on the claims of humanity. To such a project
there is but one objection; it will assuredly fail of its humane intention. It is presumed
that the competition amongst the workmen to obtain employment has so far advanced, that these
cease to obtain a sufficient remuneration for their labour. The thousand men whom a great capitalist
employs, are inadequately paid. The legislature requires that they should be paid more liberally.
But the amount which the capitalist has to expend in wages is limited. The same amount which
sustained a thousand men, can, under the new scale of remuneration, sustain only nine hundred.
The nine hundred are better fed, but there is one hundred without any food whatever. Our well-intentioned
humanity looks round aghast at the confusion she is making.

Suppose, it may be said, that a law of this description should be passed at so fortunate a
conjuncture, that it should not interfere with the existing relations between the capitalist
and the workman, but have for its object to arrest the tendency which wages have to fall; suppose
that the legislature, satisfied with the existing state of things, should pronounce it a punishable
offence to offer or accept a lower rate of remuneration, would not such a law be wise? The
answer is obvious. If there is a tendency at any time in wages to fall, it is because there
is a tendency in population to increase, or in capital to diminish; circumstances, both of
them, which it is not in the power of criminal jurisprudence to wrestle with.

We hear political economy frequently censured by these advocates for violent and legislative
remedies, for paying more attention to the accumulation than the distribution of wealth. But
in what chapter of political economy is it laid down, that the distribution and enjoyment of
wealth is a matter of less moment than its production and accumulation? The simple truth is,
that the same law of liberty, which is so favourable to the accumulation of wealth, provides
also the best distribution which human ingenuity has yet been able to devise. Less has been
said on this head because there was less to say. But surely no sane individual ever wished
that property should accumulate merely for the sake of accumulation, that society should have
the temper of a miser, and toil merely to increase its hoards. Still less has any one manifested
a disposition to confine the enjoyment of wealth to any one class, treating the labourer and
the artisan as mere tools and instruments for the production of it. The fundamental principles
of political economy to which we have been alluding, and with which alone we are here concerned,
will be always found to embrace the interests of the whole community. They should be defended
with the same jealousy that we defend our political liberties with.

It was with regret we heard the argument we have just stated against the legislative interference
with the rate of wages, introduced in the discussion of the ten-hours' bill, and applied against
the principle of that measure. It was plainly misapplied. Why do we not relish any legislative
interposition, on whatever plea of humanity, between workmen and capitalist? Because it will
fail of its humane intention. We should heartily rejoice--who would not?--if a reasonable minimum
of wages could be established and secured. But it cannot. Is the legislature equally incompetent
when it steps in to prevent children and very young persons from being overworked; from being
so employed that the health and vigour of ensuing generations may be seriously impaired, (which
would be a grave mistake even in the economy of labour;) from being so entirely occupied that
no time shall remain for education? We think not. The legislature is not in this case equally
powerless. It may here prevent an incipient abuse from growing into a custom. The law cannot
create an additional amount of capital to be distributed over its population in the shape of
an advance of wages, but the law can say to all parents and all masters--you shall not profit
by the labour of the child, to the ruin of its health, and the loss of all period for mental
and moral discipline. Such an overtasking of the child's strength has not hitherto been an
element in your calculation, and it shall not become one.

All these various schemes--socialist or otherwise--of legislative interference, take their
rise from the aspect, sufficiently deplorable, of the distress of the manufacturing population;
and it is almost excusable if the contemplation of such distress should throw men a little
off their balance. But it is not so easily excusable if men, once launched on their favourite
projects, endeavour to prove their necessity by heightened descriptions of that distress, and
by unauthorized prophecies of its future and continual increase. What a formidable array of
figures--figures of speech as well as of arithmetic--are brought down upon us with gloomy perseverance,
to convince us that the manufacturing population of this country is on the verge of irreparable
ruin! We think it right to put our readers upon their guard against these over-coloured descriptions.
Even when Parliamentary reports are quoted, whose authority is not to be gainsaid, they ought
to defend themselves against the first impression which these are calculated to make. The facts
stated may be true, but there are other facts which are not stated equally true, and which
the scope and purpose of such reports did not render it necessary to collect. If, in this country,
there is much distress, if in some places there is that utter prostration of mind and body
which extreme poverty occasions, there is also much prosperity; there is also, in other places,
much vigorous industry, receiving its usual, and more than its usual recompense. If there are
plague-spots in our population, there are also large tracts of it still sound and healthy.
Set any one down to read list after list of all the maimed and halt and sick in our great metropolis,
and the whole town will seem to him, for the time being, one wide hospital: he must throw open
the window and look on the busy, animated, buoyant crowd that is rushing through the streets,
before he shakes off the impression that he is living in a city of the plague.

Without a doubt, he who approaches the consideration of the distress of the labouring classes,
should have a tender and sympathizing spirit; how else can the subject possess for him its
true and profound interest? But it is equally necessary that he bring to it a cultivated and
well-disciplined compassion; that he should know where, in the name of others, he should raise
the voice of complaint, and where, in the name of suffering humanity at large, he should be
silent and submit. It should always be borne in mind, that it is very difficult for persons
of one condition of life, to judge of the comparative state of well-being of those of another
condition. An inhabitant of cities, a man of books and tranquillity, goes down into the country,
without previous preparation, to survey and give report of the distress of a mining or agricultural
district. In what age since the world has been peopled, could such an individual be transported
into the huts of peasants, or amongst the rude labours of the miner, without receiving many
a shock to his sensibility? Perhaps he descends, for the first time in his life, the shaft
of a coal-mine. How foul and unnatural must the whole business seem to him!--these men working
in the dark, begrimed, half-naked, pent up in narrow galleries. He has gone to spy out hardships--he
sees nothing else. Or perhaps he pays his first visit to the interior of the low-roofed crazy
cottage of the husbandman, and is disgusted at the scant furniture and uninviting meal that
it presents; yet the hardy labourer may find his rest and food there, with no greater share
of discontent than falls to most of us--than falls, perhaps, to the compassionate inspector
himself. We have sometimes endeavoured to picture to ourselves what would be the result if
the tables were turned, and a commission of agricultural labourers were sent into the city
to make report of the sort of lives led there, not by poor citizens or the lowest order of
tradesmen, but by the very class who are occupied in preparing largo folio reports of their
own distressful condition. Suppose they were to enter into the chambers of the student of law--of
the conveyancer, for example. They make their way through obscure labyrinths into a room not
quite so dark, it must be allowed, nor quite so dirty as the interior of a coal-mine, and there
they find an unhappy man who, they are given to understand, sits in that gloomy apartment,
in a state of solitary confinement, from nine o'clock in the morning till six or seven in the
evening. They learn that, for several months in the year, this man never sees the sun; that
in the cheerful season when the plough is going through the earth, or the sickle is glittering
in the corn, and the winds are blowing the great clouds along the sky, this pale prisoner is
condemned to pore over title-deeds which secure the "quiet enjoyment" of the land to others;
and if they imitate the oratory of their superiors, they will remark upon the strange injustice,
that he should be bound down a slave to musty papers, which give to others those pastures from
which he never reaps a single blade of grass, and which he is not even permitted to behold.
These commissioners would certainly be tempted to address a report to Parliament full of melancholy
representations, and ending with the recommendation to shake out such unhappy tenants into
the fields. It would be long before they could be brought to understand that he of the desk
and pen would, at the end of half an hour, find nothing in those fields but a mortal ennui.
To him there is no occupation in all those acres; and therefore they would soon be to him as
barren as the desert.

If there is any apparent levity in the last paragraph we have penned, it is a levity that is
far from our heart. There is no subject which gives us so much concern as this--of the undoubted
distress which exists amongst the labouring population, and the necessity that exists to alleviate
and to combat it. Coming from the immediate perusal of Utopian schemes, promising a community
of goods, and from the reconsideration of those arguments which prove such schemes to be delusive
and mischievous, the impression that is left on our mind is the profound conviction of the
duty of government, to do whatever lies really in its power for the amelioration of the condition
of the working classes. The present system of civilized society works, no doubt, for the good
of the whole, but assuredly they do not reap an equal benefit with other classes, and on them
falls the largest share of its inevitable evils. May we not say that, whatever the social body,
acting in its aggregate capacity, can do to redress the balance--whether in education of their
children, in sanatory regulations which concern their workshops and their dwellings, or in
judicious charity that will not press upon the springs of industry--it is bound to do by the
sacred obligation of justice?

FOOTNOTES:

[28] Etudes sur les Réformateurs, ou Socialistes Modernes. Par M. LOUIS REYBAUD.

[29] We shall perhaps take some opportunity to speak separately of M. Leroux's work, Sur l'Humanité.
It is a work of very superior pretension to the writings of MM. St Simon, Fourier, and others,
who must rather be regarded as makers of projects than makers of books. M. Leroux has the honour
of indoctrinating George Sand with that mysticism which she has lately infused into her novels--by
no means to the increase of their merit. When M. Leroux was reproached by a friend for the
fewness of his disciples, he is said to have replied--"It is true I have but one--mais, que
voulez-vous?--Jésus Christ lui-même n'avait que douze."

[30] He had been drawing the usual painful picture of the distress of the manufacturing classes,
and citing for his authority some English journal. In doing this he has made a somewhat alarming
mistake. The colloquial phrase job-work has perplexed, and very excusably, the worthy Belgian,
and he has drawn from a very harmless expression a terrible significance. "Partout le travail
est le métier de job (job-work) comme disent les Anglais--un métier à mourir sur le fumier."
In another place he has understood the turn out of our factories as the expulsion of the artisans
by the master manufacturers.

MARSTON; OR, THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN.

PART XIV.

Europe had never seen so complete or so powerful an army as that which was now assembled within
sight of Valenciennes. The city was already regarded as in our possession; and crowds of military
strangers, from every part of the Continent, came day by day pouring into the allied camp.
Nothing could equal the admiration excited by the British troops. The admirable strength, stature,
and discipline of the men, and the successes which they had already obtained, made them the
first object of universal interest; and the parades of our regiments formed a daily levee of
princes and nobles. It was impossible that soldiership could be on a more stately scale. Other
times have followed, which have shown the still statelier sight of nations marching to battle;
but the hundred thousand men who marched under Cobourg to take up their positions in the lines
of Valenciennes, filled the eye of Europe; and never was there a more brilliant spectacle.
At length orders were sent to prepare for action, and the staff of the army were busily employed
in examining the ground. The Guards were ordered to cover the operations of the pioneers; and
all was soon in readiness for the night on which the first trench was to be opened. A siege
is always the most difficult labour of an army, and there is none which more perplexes a general.
To the troops, it is incessant toil--to the general, continual anxiety. The men always have
the sense of that disgust which grows upon the soldier where he contemplates a six weeks' delay
in the sight of stone walls; and the commander, alive to every sound of hazard, feels that
he yet must stand still, and wait for the attack of every force which can be gathered round
the horizon. He may be the lion, but he is the lion in a chain--formidable, perhaps, to those
who may venture within its length, but wholly helpless against all beyond. Yet those feelings,
inevitable as they are, were but slightly felt in our encampment round the frowning ramparts
of the city. We had already swept all before us; we had learned the language of victory; we
were in the midst of a country abounding with all the good things of life, and which, though
far from exhibiting the luxuriant beauty of the British plains, was yet rich and various enough
to please the eye. Our camp was one vast scene of gaiety. War had, if ever, laid aside its
darker draperies, and "grim-visaged" as it is, had smoothed its "wrinkled front." The presence
of so many visitors of the highest rank gave every thing the air of royalty. High manners,
splendid entertainments, and all the habits and indulgences of the life of courts, had fled
from France only to be revived in Flanders. Our army was a court on the march; and the commander
of the British--the honest, kind-hearted, and brave Duke of York--bore his rank like a prince,
and gathered involuntarily round him as showy a circle as ever figured in St James's, or even
in the glittering saloons of the Tuileries. Hunting parties, balls, suppers, and amateur theatrical
performances, not merely varied the time, but made it fly. Hope had its share too, as well
as possession. Paris was before us; and on the road to the capital lay but the one fortress
which was about to be destroyed with our fire, and of which our engineers talked with contempt
as the decayed work of "old" Vauban.

But the course of victory is like the course of love, which, the poet says, "never does run
smooth." The successes of the Allies had been too rapid for their cabinets; and we had found
ourselves on the frontiers of France before the guardian genii of Europe, in the shape of the
stiff-skirted and full-wigged privy councillors of Vienna and Berlin, had made up their minds
as to our disposal of the prize. Startling words suddenly began to make their appearance in
the despatches, and "indemnity for the past and security for the future"--those luckless phrases
which were yet destined to form so large a portion of senatorial eloquence, and give birth
to so prolific an offspring of European ridicule--figured in diplomacy for the first time;
while our pioneers stood, pickaxe in hand, waiting the order to break ground. We thus lost
day after day. Couriers were busy, while soldiers were yawning themselves to death; and the
only war carried on was in the discontents of the military councils. Who was to have Valenciennes?
whose flag was to be hoisted on Lille? what army was to garrison Condé? became national questions.
Who was to cut the favourite slices of France, employed all the gossips of the camp, in imitation
of the graver gossips of the cabinet; and, in the mean time, we were saved the trouble of the
division, by a furious decree from the Convention ordering every man in France to take up arms--converting
all the churches into arsenals, anathematizing the German princes as so many brute beasts,
and recommending to their German subjects the grand republican remedy of the guillotine for
all the disorders of the government, past, present, and to come.

Circumstances seldom give an infantry officer more than a view of the movements in front of
his regiment; but my intimacy with Guiscard allowed me better opportunities. Among his variety
of attainments he was a first-rate engineer, and he was thus constantly employed where any
thing connected with the higher departments of the staff required his science. He was now attached
to the Prussian mission, which moved with the headquarters of the British force, and our intercourse
was continued. I thus joined the reconnoitring parties under his command, and received the
most important lessons in my new art. But one of my first questions to him, had been the mode
of his escape on the night of our volunteer reconnoisance.

"Escape? Why, I committed the very blunder against which I had cautioned you, and fell into
the hands of the first hussar patrole I could possibly have met. But my story is of the briefest
kind. I had not rode forward above an hour, when my horse stumbled over something in that most
barbaric of highways, and lamed himself. I then ought to have returned; but curiosity urged
me on, and leading my unfortunate charger by the bridle, I threaded my way through the most
intricate mesh of hedge and ditch within my travelling experience. The trampling of horses,
and the murmur of men in march, at last caught my ear; and I began to be convinced that the
movement which I expected from Dampier's activity was taking place. I then somewhat questioned
my own insouciance in having thrust you into hazard; and attempted to make my way across the
country in your direction. To accomplish this object I turned my horse loose, taking it for
granted that, lame as he was, he was too good a Prussian to go any where but to his own camp.
This accounts for his being found at morn. I had, however, scarcely thus taken the chance of
losing a charger which had cost me a hundred and fifty gold ducats, when I received a shot
from behind a thicket which disabled my left arm, and I was instantly surrounded by a dozen
French hussars. I was foolish enough to be angry, and angry enough to fight. But as I was neither
Samson, nor they Philistines, my sabre was soon beaten down, and I had only to surrender. I
was next mounted on the croup of one of their horses, and after a gallop of half an hour reached
the French advanced guard. It was already hurrying on, and I must confess that, from the silence
of the march and the rapid pace of their battalions, I began to be nervous about the consequences,
and dreaded the effects of a surprise on some of our camps. My first apprehension, however,
was for you. I thought that you must have been entangled in the route of some of the advancing
battalions, and I enquired of the colonel of the first to whom I was brought, whether he had
taken any prisoners.

"'Plenty,' was the answer of the rough Republican--'chiefly peasants and spies; but we have
shot none of them yet. That would make too much noise; so we have sent them to the rear, where
I shall send you. You will not be shot till we return to-morrow morning, after having cut up
those chiens Anglais.'"

I could not avoid showing my perturbation at the extreme peril in which this distinguished
man had involved himself on my account; and expressed something of my regret and gratitude.

"Remember, Marston," was his good-humoured reply, "that, in the first place, the Frenchman
was not under circumstances to put his promise in practice--he having found the English chien
more than a match for the French wolf; and, in the next, that twelve hours form a very important
respite in the life of the campaigner. I was sent to the rear with a couple of hussars to watch
me until the arrival of the general, who was coming up with the main body. On foot and disarmed,
I had only to follow them to the next house, which was luckily one of the little Flemish inns.
My hussars found a jar of brandy, and got drunk in a moment; one dropped on the floor--the
other fell asleep on his horse. I had now a chance of escape; but I was weary, wounded, and
overcome with vexation. It happened, as I took my last view of my keeper outside, nodding on
his horse's neck, that I glanced on a huge haystack in the stable-yard. The thought struck
me, that helpless as I was, I might contrive to give an alarm to some of the British videttes
or patroles, if your gallant countrymen should condescend to employ such things. I stole down
into the yard, lantern in hand; thrust it into the stack, and had the satisfaction of seeing
it burst into a blaze. I made my next step into the stable, to find a horse for my escape;
but the French patroles had been before me, and those clever fellows seldom leave any thing
to be gleaned after them. What became of my escort I did not return to enquire; but I heard
a prodigious galloping through the village, and found the advantage of the flame in guiding
me through as perplexing a maze of thicket and morass as I ever attempted at midnight. The
sound of the engagement which followed directed me to the camp; and I remain, a living example
to my friend, of the advantage of twelve hours between sentence and execution."

I had another wonder for him; and nothing could exceed his gratification when he heard, that
his act had enabled me to give the alarm of the French advance. But for that blaze I should
certainly have never been aware of their movement; the light alone had led me into the track
of the enemy, and given me time to make the intelligence useful.

"The worst of all this," said he, with his grave smile, "is that the officer in command of
your camp on that night will get a red riband and a regiment; and that you will get only the
advantage of recollecting, that in war, and perhaps in every situation of life, nothing is
to be despaired of, and nothing is to be left untried. A candle in a lantern, properly used,
probably saved both our lives, the lives of some thousands of your brave troops, the fate of
the campaign, and, with it, half the thrones of Europe, trembling on the chance of a first
campaign. I shall yet have some of my mystical countrymen writing an epic on my Flemish lantern."

During this little narrative, we had been riding over the bleak downs which render the environs
of Valenciennes such a barren contrast to the general luxuriance of northern France; and were
examining the approaches to the city, when Guiscard called to his attendant for his telescope.
We were now in the great coal-field of France; but the miners had fled, and left the plain
doubly desolate. "Can those," said he, "be the miners returning to their homes? for if not,
I am afraid that we shall have speedy evidence of the hazards of inactivity." But the twilight
was now deepening, and neither of us could discern any thing beyond an immense mass of men,
in grey cloaks, hurrying towards the city. I proposed that we should ride forward, and ascertain
the facts. He checked my rein. "No! Amadis de Gaul, or Rolando, or by whatever name more heroic
your chivalry prefers being called, we must volunteer no further. My valet shall return to
the camp and bring us any intelligence which is to be found there, while we proceed on our
survey of the ground for our batteries."

We had gone but a few hundred yards, and I was busily employed in sketching the profile of
the citadel, when we heard the advance of a large party of British cavalry, with several of
the staff, and the Duke of York, then a remarkably handsome young man, at their head. I had
seen the Duke frequently on our parades in England; but even the brief campaign had bronzed
his cheek, and given him the air which it requires a foreign campaign to give. He communicated
the sufficiently interesting intelligence, that since the victory over Dampier, the enemy had
collected a strong force from their garrisons, and after throwing ten thousand men into Valenciennes,
had formed an intrenched camp, which was hourly receiving reinforcements. "But we must put
a stop to that," said the Duke, with a smile; "and, to save them trouble and ourselves time,
we shall attack them to-morrow." He then addressed himself to Guiscard, with the attention
due to his name and rank, and conversed for a few minutes on the point of attack for the next
day--examined my sketch--said some flattering words on its correctness, and galloped off.

"Well," said Guiscard, as he followed with his glance the flying troop, "war is a showy spectacle,
and I can scarcely wonder that it should be the game of princes; but a little more common sense
in our camps would have saved us to-morrow's battle. The delays of diplomacy are like the delays
of law--the estate perishes before the process is at an end. But now to our work." We rode
to the various points from which a view of the newly arrived multitude could be obtained. Their
fires began to blaze; and we were thus enabled to ascertain at once their position, and, in
some degree, their numbers. There could not be less than thirty thousand men, the arrival of
the last few hours. "For this contretemps," said Guiscard, as he examined their bivouac with
his telescope, "we have to thank only ourselves. Valenciennes ought to have been stormed within
the first five minutes after we could have cut down those poplars for scaling ladders," and
he pointed to the tapering tops of the large plantations lining the banks of the Scheldt; "but
we have been quarreling over our portfolios, while the French have been gathering every rambling
soldier within a hundred miles; and now we shall have a desperate struggle to take possession
of those lines, and probably a long siege as finale to the operation. There, take my glass,
and judge for yourselves." I looked, and if the novelty and singularity could have made me
forget the serious business of the scene, I might have been amply amused. The whole French
force were employed in preparing for the bivouac, and fortifying the ground, which they had
evidently taken up with the intent of covering the city. All was in motion. At the distance
from which we surveyed it, the whole position seemed one huge ant-hill. Torches, thickets burning,
and the fires of the bivouac, threw an uncertain and gloomy glare over portions of the view,
which, leaving the rest in utter darkness, gave an ominous and ghostly look to the entire.
I remarked this impression to Guiscard, and observed that it was strange to see a "scene of
the most stirring life so sepulchral."

"Why not?" was his reply. "The business is probably much the same."

"Yet sepulchral," I observed, "is not exactly the word which I would have used. There is too
much motion, too much hurried and eager restlessness, too much of the wild and fierce activity
of beings who have not a moment to lose, and who are busied in preparations for destruction."

"Have you ever been in the Sistine Chapel?" asked my companion.

"No; Italy has been hitherto beyond my flight; but the longing to see it haunts me."

"Well, then, when your good fortune leads you to Rome, let your first look be given to the
noblest work of the pencil, and of Michael Angelo: glance at the bottom of his immortal picture,
and you will see precisely the same wild activity, and the same strange and startling animation.
The difference only is, that the actors here are men--there, fiends; here the scene is the
field of future battle--there, the region of final torment. I am not sure that the difference
is great, after all."

At daybreak, the British line was under arms. I feel all words fail, under the effort to convey
the truth of that most magnificent display; not that a simple detail may not be adequate to
describe the movements of a gallant army; but what can give the impression of the time, the
form and pressure of collisions on which depended the broadest and deepest interests of the
earth. Our war was then, what no war was since the old invasions under the Edwards and Henrys--national;
it was as romantic as the crusades. England was fighting for none of the objects which, during
the last three hundred years, had sent armies into the field--not for territory, not for glory,
not for European supremacy, not even for self-defence. She was fighting for a Cause; but that
was the cause of society, of human freedom, of European advance, of every faculty, feeling,
and possession by which man is sustained in his rank above the beasts that perish. The very
language of the great dramatist came to my recollection, at the moment when I heard the first
signal-gun for our being put in motion.

    "Now all the youth of England are on fire,
    And silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies.

Our troops, too, had all the ardour which is added even to the boldest by the assurance of
victory. They had never come into contact with the enemy but to defeat them, and the conviction
of their invincibility was so powerful, that it required the utmost efforts of their officers
to prevent their rushing into profitless peril. The past and the present were triumphant; while,
to many a mind of the higher cast, the future was, perhaps, more glittering than either. In
the same imperishable eloquence of poetry--

    "For now sits expectation in the air,
    And hides a sword, from hilt unto the point,
    With crowns imperial, crowns and coronets,
    Promised to Harry and his followers."

The ambition of the English soldier may be of a more modified order than that of the foreigner;
but the dream of poetry was soon realized in the crush of the Republicans, who had trampled
alike the crown and the coronet in the blood of their owners. Twenty-seven thousand men were
appointed for the attack of the French lines; and on the first tap of the drum, a general shout
of exultation was given from all the columns. The cavalry galloped through the intervals to
the front, and parks of the light guns were sent forward to take up positions on the few eminences
which commanded the plain; but the day had scarcely broke, when one of those dense fogs, the
customary evil of the country, fell suddenly upon the whole horizon, and rendered action almost
impossible. Nothing could exceed the vexation of the army at this impediment; and if our soldiers
had ever heard of Homer, there would have been many a repetition of his warrior's prayer, that
"live or die, it might be in the light of day."

But in the interval, important changes were made in the formation of the columns. The French
lines had been found of unexpected strength, and the Guards were pushed forward to head a grand
division placed under command of General Ferrari. The British were, of course, under the immediate
orders of an officer of their own, and a more gallant one never led troops under fire. I now,
for the first time, saw the general who was afterwards destined to sweep the French out of
Egypt, and inflict the first real blow on the military supremacy of France under Napoleon.
General Abercromby was then in the full vigour of life; a strongly formed, manly figure, a
quiet but keen eye, and a countenance of remarkable steadiness and thought, all gave the indications
of a mind firm in all the contingencies of war. Exactly at noon, the fog drew up as suddenly
as it had descended, and we had a full view of the enemy's army. No foreign force ever exhibits
so showy and soldierly an appearance as the British. The blue of the French and Prussians looks
black, and the white of the Austrian looks faded and feeble, compared with the scarlet. As
I cast my glance along our lines, they looked like trails of flame. The French were drawn up
in columns in front of their camp, which, by the most extraordinary exertion, they had covered
during the night with numerous batteries, and fortified with a circle of powerful redoubts;
the guns of the fortress defended their flank and rear, and their position was evidently of
the most formidable kind. But all view was lost, from the moment when the head of our brigade
advanced. Every gun that could be brought to bear upon us opened at once, and all was enveloped
in smoke. For a full hour we could see nothing but the effect of the grape-shot on our own
ranks as we poured on, and hear nothing but the roar of the batteries. But at length shouts
began to arise in distant parts of the field, and we felt that the division which had been
appointed to assault the rear of the camp was making progress. Walmoden, commanding a brigade
under Ferrari, now galloped up, to ascertain whether our men were ready to assault the intrenchments.
"The British troops are always ready," was Abercromby's expressive, and somewhat indignant,
answer. In the instant of our rushing forward, an aide-de-camp rode up, to acquaint the general
that the column under the Duke of York had already stormed three redoubts. "Gentlemen," said
Abercromby, turning to the colonels round him, "we must try to save our friends further trouble--forward!"
Within a quarter of an hour we were within the enemy's lines, every battery was stormed or
turned, and the French were in confusion. Some hurried towards the fortress, which now began
to fire; a large body fled into the open country, and fell into the hands of his royal highness;
and some, seizing the boats on the river, dropped down with the stream. All was victory: yet
this was to be my day of ill luck. In pursuing the enemy towards the fortress, a battalion,
which had attempted to cover the retreat, broke at the moment when my company were on the point
of charging them. This was too tempting a chance to be resisted; we rushed on, taking prisoners
at every step, until we actually came within sight of the gate by which the fugitives were
making their escape into the town. But we were in a trap, and soon felt that we were discovered,
by a heavy discharge of musketry from the rampart. We had now only to return on our steps,
and I had just given the word, when the firing was renewed on a bastion, round which we were
hurrying in the twilight. I felt a sudden shock, like that of electricity, which struck me
down; I made a struggle to rise on my feet, but my strength wholly failed me, and I lost all
recollection.

On my restoration to my senses, in a few hours after, I found that I had been carried into
the town, and placed in the military hospital. My first impulse was, to examine whether any
of my brave fellows had shared my misfortune; but all round me were French, wounded in the
engagement of the day. My next source of congratulation was, that I had no limb broken. The
shot had struck me in the temple, and glanced off without entering; but I had lost much blood,
had been trampled, and felt a degree of exhaustion, which gave me the nearest conception to
actual death.

Of the transactions of the field I knew nothing beyond my own share of the day; but I had seen
the enemy in full flight, and that was sufficient. Within a day or two, the roaring of cannon,
the increased bustle of the attendants, and the tidings that a black flag had been erected
on the hospital, told me that the siege had begun. I shall pass over its horrors. Yet, what
is all war but a succession of horrors? The sights which I saw, the sounds which I heard from
hour to hour, were enough to sicken me of human nature. In the gloom and pain of my sleepless
nights, I literally began to think it possible that a fiendish nature might supplant the human
condition, and that the work before my eyes was merely an anticipation of those terrors, which
to name startles the imagination and wrings the heart. Surrounded with agonies, the involuntary
remark always came to my mind with renewed freshness, in the common occurrences of the hospital
day. But, besides the sufferings of the wounded, a new species of suffering, scarcely less
painful, and still more humiliating, began to be prominent. The provisions of the people, insufficiently
laid in at the approach of the besiegers, rapidly failed, and the hospital itself was soon
surrounded by supplicants for food. The distress, at last, became so excessive, that it amounted
to agony. Emaciated figures of both sexes stole or forced their way into the building, to beg
our rations, or snatch them from our feeble hands; and I often divided my scanty meal with
individuals who had once been in opulent trade, or been ranked among the semi-noblesse of the
surrounding country. Sometimes I missed faces to which I had been accustomed among those unfortunate
beings, and I heard a still more unhappy tale--shall I call it more unhappy? They had perished
by the cannon-shot, which now poured into the city day and night, or had been buried in the
ruins of some of the buildings, which were now constantly falling under the heaviest bombardment
in the annals of war. Of those scenes I say no more. If the siege of a great fortress is the
most trying of all hazards to the soldier without, what must it be to the wretches within?
Valenciennes was once the centre of the lace manufactories of France. The war had destroyed
them at once. The proprietors had fled, the thousands of young and old employed in those delicate
and beautiful productions, had fled too, or remained only to perish of famine. A city of twenty
thousand of the most ingenious artists was turning day by day into a vast cemetery. As I tossed
on my mattress hour after hour, and heard the roar of the successive batteries, shuddered at
the fall of the shells, and was tortured by the cries of the crowd flying from the explosions
all night long--I gave the deepest curses of my spirit to the passion for glory. It is true,
that nations must defend themselves; the soldier is a protector to the industry, the wealth,
and the happiness of the country. I am no disciple of the theory, which, disclaiming the first
instinct of nature, self-preservation, invites injury by weakness, and creates war by impunity;
but the human race ought to outlaw the man who dares to dream of conquest, and builds his name
in the blood of man.

On my capture, one of my first wishes had been to acquaint my regiment with the circumstances
of my misfortune, and to relieve my friends of their anxiety for the fate of a brother officer.
But this object, which, in the older days of continental campaigning, would have been acceded
to with a bow and a compliment by Monsiegneur le Comte, or Son Altesse Royale, the governor,
was sturdily refused by the colonel in charge of the hospital--a firm Republican, and the son
of a cobbler, who, swearing by the Goddess of Reason, threatened to hang over the gate the
first man who dared to bring him another such proposal. I next sent my application to the commandant,
a brave old soldier, who had served in the royal armies, and had the feelings of better times;
but it was probably intercepted, for no answer came. This added deeply to my chagrin. My absence
must give rise to conjecture; my fall had been unseen even by my men; and while I believed
that my character was above the scandal of either pusillanimity or desertion, it still remained
at the mercy of all.

But chance came to my relief. It happened that I had unconsciously won the particular regard
of one of the Béguines who attended the hospital; and my tristesse, which she termed 'effrayante,'
one evening attracted her peculiar notice. Let not my vanity be called in question; for my
fair admirer was at least fifty years old, and was about the figure and form of one of her
country churns, although her name was Juliet! Pretty as the name was, the Béguine had not an
atom of the poetic about her. Romance troubled her not. Yet with a face like the full moon,
and a pile of petticoats which would have made a dowdy of the "Belvedere Diana," she was a
capital creature. Juliet, fat as she was, had the natural frolic of a squirrel; she was everywhere,
and knew every thing, and did every thing for every body; her tongue and her feet were constantly
busy; and I scarcely knew which was the better emblem of the perpetual motion. My paleness
was peculiarly distressing to her; "it hurt her feelings;" it also hurt her honour; for she
had been famous for her nursing, and as she told me, with her plump hands upon her still plumper
hips, and her head thrown back with an air of conscious merit, "she had saved more than the
doctors had killed." I had some reluctance to tell her the cause of my tristesse; for I knew
her zeal, and I dreaded her plunging into some hazard with the authorities. But who has ever
been able to keep a secret, where it was the will of the sex to extort it? Juliet obtained
mine before she left the ward for the night; and desired me to give her a letter, which she
pledged herself to transmit to my regiment. But this I determined to refuse, and I kept my
determination. I had no desire to see my "fat friend" suspended from the pillars of the portico;
or to hear of her, at least, being given over to the mercies of the provost-marshal. We parted,
half in anger on her side, and with stern resolution on mine.

During the day Juliet was not forthcoming, and her absence produced, what the French call,
a "lively sensation"--which, in nine instances out of ten, means an intolerable sense of ennui--in
the whole establishment. I shared the general uneasiness, and at length began to cast glances
towards the gate, where, though I was not exactly prepared to see the corpulent virtues of
my friend in suspension, I had some tremblings for the state, "sain et sauf;" of my Béguine.
At last her face appeared at the opening of the great door, flushed with heat and good-nature,
and, as it came moving through the crowd which gathered round her with all kinds of enquiries,
giving no bad resemblance to the moon seen through a fog; whether distinct or dim, full and
florid to the last. Her good-humoured visage revived me, as if I had met a friend of as many
years standing as she numbered on her cradle. But all my enquiries for the news of earth outside
the hospital, were answered only by an "order" to keep myself tranquil--prevent the discomposure
of my pulse, and duly drink my ptisan. All this, however, was for the general ear. The feebleness
which kept me confined to my bed during the day, had made my nights wakeful. On this night,
whether on the anxiety of the day, or the heavier roar of the siege, for the bombardment was
now at its height, I exhibited signs of returning fever, and the Béguine remained in attendance.
But when the crowd had gone to such rest as they could find, amid the thunder of batteries
and the bursting of shells, Juliet approached my pillow with a broad smile, which distended
her good-natured mouth from ear to ear, and thrust under my pillow a small packet--the whole
operation being followed by a finger pressed to her lips, and a significant glance to every
corner of the huge melancholy hall, to see that all was secure. She then left me to my meditations!

The mysterious packet contained three letters; and, eager as I was for their perusal, I almost
shuddered at their touch; for they must have been obtained with infinite personal peril, and
if found upon the Béguine they might have brought her under the severest vengeance of the garrison.
They were from Guiscard, Mariamne, and Mordecai. Thus to three individuals, all comparatively
strangers, was my world reduced. But they were no common strangers; and I felt, while holding
their letters in my hand, and almost pressing them to my heart, how much more strongly friendship
may bind us than the ties of cold and negligent relationship. I opened the soldier's letter
first. It was like every thing that Guiscard ever did; manly, yet kind. "Your disappearance
in that unfortunate rencontre has created much sorrow and surprise; but the sorrow was all
for your loss to the 'corps of corps,' and the surprise was, that no tidings could be heard
of you, whether fallen or surviving. The flag and trumpet sent in next morning to recover the
remains of such as had suffered in that mad rush to the gates of the town, came back without
being permitted to pass beyond the outworks, bringing a brutal message from the officer on
duty, 'that the next flag should be fired on,' and that the 'brave soldiers of the Republic
allowed of no compromise with the slaves of tyranny!' The bravado might be laughed at, but
it left me in the dark relative to your fate; and if you are to be flattered by the feelings
of men who cannot get at you but by cannon-shot, you may congratulate yourself on having had
as many fine things said of you as would make an epitaph for a duke--and, I believe, with a
sincerity at least equal to the best of them. I write all this laughingly now, but suspense
makes heaviness of heart, and you cost me some uneasy hours, of course. I send you none of
our news; as you will hear all in good time, and communications on public matters might bring
your messenger or yourself into difficulties. You are alive, and in good hands; that is the
grand point. Your character is now in my hands, and I shall take care of it; I shall see you
a general officer yet, if you have not the greater luck to retire and live an honest farmer,
sitting under your own fig-tree and your own vine, with an unromantic spouse, and some half-dozen
of red-cheeked children. Farewell, we shall soon see each other."

The last line evidently meant more than met the eye, and I was now just in the mind to indulge
in the fantasies of my fair correspondent. They were like herself--a curious mixture of mirth
and melancholy.

"Why I wished to write to you, or why I write at all--which, however, I do decorously at the
side of my father--are questions which I have not taken the trouble of asking until this moment.
But I am in Switzerland, where no one has time for any thing but worshipping mountain-tops,
and falling down at the feet of cataracts. Whether it would add to Mr Marston's satisfaction
I cannot presume to say, but I feel better, much better, than when I first came into this land
of fresh breezes and beauty of all kinds--the population, of every rank, always excepted. If
I were, like you, a philosopher, I should probably say that nature gets tired of her work,
and after having struck off some part of it with all the spirit of an Italian painter, disdains
the trouble of finishing; or, like a French 'fashionable,' coquettes with her own charms, and
is determined to make the world adore her, in spite of her slippers and her shawl. Thus, nature,
which gave the peacock a diadem on its head, and a throne in its tail, has given it a pair
of frightful legs. And on the same charming principle, she has given Switzerland the finest
of all possible landscapes, and filled them with the most startling of all possible physiognomies.

"But no more of theory. It has always made my head ache, and headachs are, I know, contagious;
so I spare you. Yet, have you a moment, among your thousand and one avocations, to remember
my father--or me? I beg that I may not impede the march of armies, or shock the balance of
Europe, while I solicit you to give me a single line--no more; a mere 'annonce' of any thing
that can tell me of your 'introuvable' friend Lafontaine. This is not for myself. The intelligence
is required for a sister of his whom I have lately met in this country--a showy "citizeness"
of Zurich, embonpoint and matronly, married to one of the portly burghers of the city, and
exemplary in all the arts of sheep-shearing, wool-spinning, and cheese-making; a mother, surrounded
à la Française with a host of Orlandos, Hyacintes, Aristomenes, and Apollos--pretty children,
with the Frenchman developing in all its gaudiness; the Switzer remaining behind, until it
shall come forth in cloudy brows, and a face stamped with money-making. Madame Spiegler is
still not beyond a waltz, and in the very whirl of one last night, she turned to me and implored
that I should 'move heaven and earth,' as she termed it--with her blue eyes thrown up to the
chandelier, and her remarkably pretty and well-chaussé'd feet still beating time to the dance--to
bring her disconsolate bosom tidings of her 'frère, si bien aimé, si malheureux.' I promised,
and she flew off instantly into the very core of a dance, consisting of at least a hundred couples.

"I have just returned from a drive along the shore of the Leman. The recollection of Madame
Spiegler, rolling and rushing through the waltz like a dolphin through the waves; or like any
thing caught in an enormous whirlpool, sweeping round perpetually until it was swept out of
sight, had fevered me. The air here is certainly delicious. It has a sense of life--a vivid,
yet soft, freshness, that makes the mere act of breathing it delightful. But I have mercy on
you--not one word of Clarens, not one word of Meillerie. Take it for granted that Ferney is
burnt down, as it well might be without any harm to the picturesque; and that Jean Jacques
never wrote, played the knave, or existed. If I were a Swiss Caliph Omar, I should make a general
seizure, to be followed by a general conflagration, of every volume that has ever touched on
the wit and wickedness of the one, or the intolerable sensibility of the other. I should next
extend the flame to all tours, meditations, and musings on hills, valleys, and lakes; prohibit
all sunset 'sublimities' as an offence against the state; and lay all raptures at the 'distant
view of Mont Blanc,' or the 'ascent of the Rhighi,' if not under penalty of prison, at least
under a bond never to be seen in the territory again. But I must make my adieux. Apropos, if
you should accidentally hear any thing of your pelerin-à-pied friend Lafontaine--for I conjecture
that he has gone to discover the fountains of the Nile, or is at this moment a candidate for
the office of court-chamberlain at Timbuctoo--let me hear it. Madame Spiegler is really uneasy
on the subject, though it has not diminished either her weight or her velocity, nor will prevent
her waltzing till the end of the world, or of herself. One sentence--nay, one syllable--will
be enough.

"This light is delicious, and it is only common gratitude to nature to acknowledge, that she
has done something in the scene before my casement at this sweet and quiet hour, which places
her immeasurably above the decorateurs of a French salon. The sun has gone, and the moon has
not yet come. There is scarcely a star; and yet a light lingers, and floats, and descends over
everything--hill, forest, and water--like the light that one sometimes sees in dreams. All
dream-like--the work of a spell laid over a horizon of a hundred miles. I should scarcely be
surprised to see visionary forms rising from these woods and waters, and ascending in bright
procession into the clouds. I hear, at this moment, some touches of music, which I could almost
believe to come from invisible instruments as they pass along with the breeze. Still, may I
beg of you, Mr Marston, not to suppose that I mean to extend this letter to the size of a government
despatch, nor that the mark which I find I have left on my paper, is a tear? I have no sorrow
to make its excuse. But here, one weeps for pleasure, and I can forgive even Rousseau his--'Je
m'attendrissais, je soupirais, et je pleurais comme un enfant. Combien de fois, m'arrêtant
pour pleurer plus à mon aise, assis sur une grosse pierre, je me suis amusé à voir tomber mes
larmes dans l'eau.' Rousseau was lunatic, but he was not lunatic when he wrote this, or I am
growing so too. For fear of that possible romance, I say, farewell.

"P.S.--Remember Madame Spiegler. Toujours à vous--MARIAMNE."

My third letter was Mordecai to the life--a bold, hurried, yet clear view of the political
bearings of the time. It more than ever struck me, in the course of his daring paragraphs,
what a capital leader he would have made for a Jewish revolution; if one could imagine the
man of a thousand years of slavery grasping the sword and unfurling the banner. Yet bold minds
may start up among a fallen people; and when the great change, which will assuredly come, is
approaching, it is not improbable that it will be begun by some new and daring spirit throwing
off the robes of humiliation, and teaching Israel to strike for freedom by some gallant example--a
new Moses smiting the Egyptian, and marching from the house of bondage, the fallen host of
the oppressor left weltering in the surge of blood behind.

After some personal details, and expressions of joy at the recovering health of his idolized
but wayward daughter, he plunged into politics. "I have just returned," said he, "from a visit
to some of our German kindred. You may rely upon it, that a great game is on foot. Your invasion
is a jest. Your troops will fight, I allow, but your cabinets will betray. I have seen enough
to satisfy me, that, if you do not take Paris within the next three months, you will not take
it within ten times the number of years. Of course, I make no attempt at prediction. I leave
infallibility to the grave fools of conclaves and councils; but the French mob will beat them
all. What army can stand before a pestilence? When I was last in Sicily, I went to the summit
of Etna during the time of an eruption. On my way, I slept at one of the convents on the slope
of the mountain. I was roused from my sleep by a midnight clamour in the court of the convent--the
monks were fluttering in all corners, like frightened chickens. I came down from my chamber,
and was told the cause of the alarm in the sudden turn of a stream of the eruption towards
the convent. I laughed at the idea of hazard from such a source, when the building was one
mass of stone, and, of course, as I conceived, incombustible. 'Santissima Madre!' exclaimed
the frightened superior, who stood wringing his hands and calling on all the saints in his
breviary; 'you do not know of what stone it is built. All is lava; and at the first touch of
the red-hot rocks now rolling down upon us, every stone in the walls will melt like wax in
the furnace.' The old monk was right. We lost no time in making our escape to a neighbouring
pinnacle, and from it saw the stream of molten stone roll round the walls, inflame them, scorch,
swell, and finally melt them down. Before daylight, the site of the convent was a gulf of flame.
This comes of sympathy in stones--what will it be in men? Wait a twelvemonth; and you will
see the flash and flame of French republicanism melting down every barrier of the Continent.
The mob has the mob on its side for ever. The offer of liberty to men who have spent a thousand
years under despotism, is irresistible. Light may blind, but who loves utter darkness? The
soldier may melt down like the rest; he is a man, and may be a madman like the rest; he, too,
is one of the multitude.

"Their language may be folly or wisdom, it may be stolen from the ramblings of romance writers,
or be the simple utterance of irrepressible instincts within; but it is the language which
I hear every where around me. Men eat and drink to it, work and play to it, awake and sleep
to it. It is in the rocks and the streams, in the cradle, and almost on the deathbed. It rings
in the very atmosphere; and what must be the consequence? If the French ever cross the Rhine,
they will sweep every thing before them, as easily as a cloud sweeps across the sky, and with
as little power in man to prevent them. A cluster of church steeples or palace spires could
do no more to stop the rush of a hurricane.

"You will call me a panegyrist of Republicanism, or of France. I have no love for either. But
I may admire the spring of the tiger, or even give him credit for the strength of his tusks,
and the grasp of his talons, without desiring to see him take the place of my spaniel on the
hearth-rug, or choosing him as the companion of my travels. I dread the power of the multitude,
I despair of its discipline, and I shrink from the fury of its passions. A republic in France
can be nothing but a funeral pile, in which the whole fabric is made, not for use, but for
destruction; which man cannot inhabit, but which the first torch will set in a blaze from the
base to the summit; and upon which, after all, corpses alone crown the whole hasty and tottering
erection. But this I shall say, that Germany is at this moment on the verge of insurrection;
and that the first French flag which waves on the right bank of the Rhine will be the signal
of explosion. I say more; that if the effect is to be permanent, pure, or beneficial, it will
not be the result of the tricolor. The French conquests have always been brilliant, but it
was the brilliancy of a soap-bubble. A puff of the weakest lips that ever breathed from a throne,
has always been enough to make the nation conquerors; but the hues of glory no sooner began
to colour the thin fabric, than it burst before the eye, and the nation had only to try another
bubble. It is my impression, that the favouritism of Revolution at this moment will even receive
its death-blow from France itself. All is well while nothing is seen of it but the blaze ascending,
hour by hour, from the fragments of her throne, or nothing heard but the theatrical songs of
the pageants which perform the new idolatry of 'reason.' But when the Frenchman shall come
among nations with the bayonet in his right hand and with the proclamation in his left--when
he turns his charger loose into the corn-field, and robs the peasant whom he harangues on the
rights of the people--this republican baptism will give no new power to the conversion. The
German phlegm will kick, the French vivacité will scourge, and then alone will the true war
begin. Yet all this may be but the prelude. When the war of weapons has been buried in its
own ashes, another war may begin, the war of minds--the struggle of mighty nations, the battle
of an ambition of which our purblind age has not even a glimpse--a terrible strife, yet worthy
of the immortal principle of man, and to be rewarded only by a victory which shall throw all
the exploits of soldiership into the shade."

While I was meditating on the hidden meanings of this letter, in which my Jewish friend seemed
to have imbibed something of the dreamy spirit of Germany itself, I was startled by a tremendous
uproar outside the hospital--the drums beat to arms, the garrison hastily mustered, the population
poured into the streets, and a strong and startling light in all the casements, showed that
some great conflagration had just begun. The intelligence was soon spread that the Hotel de
Ville, the noblest building in the city, a fine specimen of Italian architecture of the seventeenth
century, and containing some incomparable pictures by the Italian masters, and a chef-d'oeuvre
of Rubens, had been set on fire by a bomb, and was now in a blaze from battlement to ground.
The next intelligence was still more painful. The principal convent of the city, which was
close in its rear, had taken fire, and the unfortunate nuns were seen at the windows in the
most imminent danger of perishing. Feeble as I was, I immediately rose. The Béguine rushed
in at the moment, wringing her hands and uttering the wildest cries of terror at the probable
destruction of those unhappy women. I volunteered my services, which were accepted, and I hurried
out to assist in saving them if possible. The spectacle was overwhelming.

The Hotel de Ville was a large and nearly insulated building, with a kind of garden-walk round
three of its sides, which was now filled with the populace. The garrison exhibited all the
activity of the national character in their efforts to extinguish the flames. Scaling-ladders
were applied to the windows, men mounted them thick as bees; fire-buckets were passed from
hand to hand, for the fire-engines had been long since destroyed by the cannonade; and there
seemed to be some hope of saving the structure, when a succession of agonizing screams fixed
every eye on the convent, where the fire had found its way to the stores of wood and oil, and
shot up like the explosion of gunpowder. The efforts of the troops were now turned to save
the convent; but the intense fury of the flame defeated every attempt. The scaling-ladders
no sooner touched the casements than they took fire; the very walls were so hot that none could
approach them; and every new gust swept down a sheet of flame, which put the multitude to flight
in all directions. Artillery was now brought out to breach the walls; but while there remained
a hundred and fifty human beings within, it was impossible to make use of the guns. All efforts
at length ceased; and the horror was deepened, if such could be, by seeing now and then a distracted
figure rush to a casement, toss up her arms to heaven, and then rush back again with a howl
of despair.

I proposed to the French officers that they should dig under the foundations, and thus open
a way of escape through the vaults. The attempt was made, but it had the ill success of all
the rest. The walls were too massive for our strength, and the pickaxe and spade were thrown
aside in despair. From the silence which now seemed to reign within, and the volumes of smoke
which poured from the casements, it began to be the general impression that the fate of the
nuns was already decided; and the officers were about to limber up their guns and retire, when
I begged their chief to make one trial more, and fire at a huge iron door which closed a lofty
archway leading to the Hotel de Ville. He complied; a six-pound ball was sent against the door,
and it flew off its hinges. To the boundless exultation and astonishment of all, we saw the
effect of this fortunate shot, in the emergence of the whole body of the nuns from the smoking
and shattered building. They had been driven, step by step, from the interior to the long stone-built
passage which in old times had formed a communication with the town, and which had probably
not been used for a century. The troops and populace now rushed into the Hotel de Ville to
meet and convey them to places of safety. I followed with the same object, yet with some unaccountable
feeling that I had a personal interest in the rescue. The halls and apartments were on the
huge and heavy scale of ancient times, and I was more than once bewildered in ranges of corridors
filled with the grim reliques of civic magnificence, fierce portraits of forgotten men of city
fame, portentous burghers, and mailed captains of train bands. The unhappy women were at length
gathered from the different galleries to which they had scattered in their fright, and were
mustered at the head of the principal entrance, or grand escalier, at whose foot the escort
was drawn up for their protection.

But the terrors of that fearful night were not yet at an end. The light of the conflagration
had caught the eye of the besiegers, and a whole flight of shells were sent in its direction.
Some burst in the street, putting the populace to flight on every side; and, while the women
were on the point of rushing down the stair, a crash was heard above, and an enormous shell
burst through the roof, carrying down shattered rafters, stones, and a cloud of dust. The batteries
had found our range, and a succession of shells burst above our heads, or tore their way downwards.
All was now confusion and shrieking. At length one fell on the centre of the escalier, rolled
down a few steps, and, bursting, tore up the whole stair, leaving only a deep gulf between
us and the portal. The women fled back through the apartment. I now regarded all as lost; and
expecting the roof to come down every moment on my head, and hearing nothing round me but the
bursting and hissing of those horrible instruments of havoc, I hurried through the chambers,
in the hope of finding some casement from which I might reach the ground. They were all lofty
and difficult of access, but I at length climbed up to one, from which, though twenty or thirty
feet from the path below, I determined to take the plunge. I was about to leap, when, to my
infinite surprise, I heard my name pronounced. I stopped. I heard the words--"Adieu, pour toujours!"
All was dark within the room, but I returned to discover the speaker. It was a female on her
knees near the casement, and evidently preparing to die in prayer. I took her hand, and led
her passively towards the window; she wore the dress of a nun, and her veil was on her face.
As she seemed fainting, I gently removed it to give her air. A sheet of flame suddenly threw
a broad light across the garden, and in that face I saw--Clotilde! She gave a feeble cry, and
fell into my arms.

Our escape was accomplished soon after, by one of the scaling-ladders which was brought at
my call; and before I slept, I had seen the being in whom my very existence was concentrated,
safely lodged with the principal family of the town. Slept, did I say? I never rested for an
instant. Thoughts, reveries, a thousand wild speculations, rose, fell, chased each other through
my brain, and all left me feverish, half-frantic, and delighted.

At the earliest moment which could be permitted by the formalities of France, even in a besieged
town, I flew to Clotilde. She received me with the candour of her noble nature. Her countenance
brightened with sudden joy as she approached me. In the salle de reception she sat surrounded
by the ladies of the family, still full of enquiries on the perils of the night, congratulations
on her marvellous escape, and no slight approval of the effect of the convent costume on the
contour of her fine form and expressive features. My entrance produced a diversion in her favour;
and I was showered with showy speeches from the seniors of the circle; the younger portion
suddenly relapsing into that frigid propriety which the Mademoiselle retains until she becomes
the Madame, and then flings off for ever like her girlish wardrobe. But their eyes took their
full share, and if glances at the "Englishman" could have been transfered into words, I should
have enjoyed a very animated conversation on the part of the Jeunes Innocenes. But I shrank
from the panegyric of my "heroism," as it was pronounced in all the tones of courtesy; and
longed for the voice of Clotilde alone. The circle at last withdrew, and I was left to the
most exquisite enjoyment of which the mind of man is capable--the full, fond, and faithful
outpouring of the heart of the woman he loves. Strange to say, I had never exchanged a syllable
with Clotilde before; and yet we now as deeply understood each other--were as much in each
other's confidence, and had as little of the repulsive ceremonial of a first interview, as
if we had conversed for years.

"You saved my life," said she; "and you are entitled to my truest gratitude to my last hour.
I had made up my mind to die. I was exhausted in the attempt to escape from that horrible convent.
When at last I reached the Hotel de Ville, and found that all the sisterhood had been driven
back from the great stair by the flames, I gave up all hope: and may I acknowledge, unblamed,
to you--but from you what right have I now to conceal any secret of my feelings?--I was not
unwilling to lay down a life which seemed to grow darker from day to day."

"You were wearied of your convent life?" said I, fixing my eyes on hers with eager enquiry.
"But you must not tell me that you are a nun. The new laws of France forbid that sacrifice.
My sweet Clotilde, while I live, I shall never recognise your vows."

"You need not," she answered, with a smile that glowed.

    'Celestial rosy red, love's proper hue.'

"I have never taken them. The superior of the convent was my near relative, and I fled to her
protection from the pursuit of one whom I never could have respected, and whom later thoughts
have made me all but abhor."

"Montrecour! I shall pursue him through the world."

"No," said Clotilde; "he is as unworthy of your resentment as of my recollection. He is a traitor
to his king and a disgrace to his nobility. He is now a general in the Republican service,
Citizen Montrecour. But we must talk of him no more."

She blushed deeply, and after some hesitation, said, "I am perfectly aware that the marriages
customary among our noblesse were too often contracted in the mere spirit of exclusiveness;
and I own that the proposal of my alliance with the Marquis de Montrecour was a family arrangement,
perfectly in the spirit of other days. But my residence in England changed my opinions on the
custom of my country, and I determined never to marry." She stopped short, and with a faint
smile, said, "But let us talk of something else." Her cheek was crimson, and her eyes were
fixed on the ground.

"No, Clotilde, talk of nothing else. Talk of your feelings, your sentiments, of yourself, and
all that concerns yourself. No subject on earth can ever be so delightful to your friend. But,
talk of what you will, and I shall listen with a pleasure which no human being has ever given
me before, or ever shall give me again."

She raised her magnificent eyes, and fixed them full upon me with an involuntary look of surprise,
then grew suddenly pale, and closed them as if she were fainting. "I must listen," said she,
"to this language no longer. I know you to be above deception. I know you to be above playing
with the vanity of one unused to praise, and to such praise. But I have a spirit as high as
your own. Let us be friends. It will give an additional honour to my name; shall I say"--and
she faltered--"an additional interest to my existence. Now we must part for a while."

"Never!" was my exclamation. "The world does not contain two Clotildes. And you shall never
leave me. You have just told me that I preserved your life. Why shall I not be its protector
still? Why not be suffered to devote mine to making yours happy?" But the bitter thought struck
me as I uttered the words--how far I was from the power of giving this incomparable creature
the station in society which was hers by right! How feeble was my hope even of competence!
How painfully I should look upon her beauty, her fine understanding, and her generous heart,
humbled to the narrow circumstances of one whose life depended upon the chances of the most
precarious of all professions, and whose success in that profession depended wholly on the
caprice of fortune. But one glance more drove all doubts away, and I took her hand.

She looked at me with speechless embarrassment, sighed deeply, and a tear stole down her cheek.
At length, withdrawing her hand, she said, in almost a whisper, and with an evident effort,
"This must not be. I feel infinite honour in your good opinion--deeply grateful for your kindness.
But this must not be. No. I should rather wear this habit for my life, than make so ungenerous
a return to the noble spirit that can thus offer its friendship to a stranger."

"No, Clotilde, no. Again, in my turn, I say, this must not be; you are no stranger. I know
you at this hour as well as if I had known you from the first hour of my being. I gave my heart
to you from the moment when I first saw you among your countrywomen in England. It required
no time to make me feel that you were my fate. It was an instinct, a spell, a voice of nature,
a voice of heaven within me!"

She listened and trembled. I again took the hand, which was withheld no more. "From that day,
Clotilde, you were my thought by day and my dream by night. All my desires of distinction were,
that it might be seen by your eye; all my hopes of fortune, that I might be enabled to lay
it at your feet. If a throne were offered to me on condition of renouncing you, I should have
rejected it. If it were my lot to labour in the humblest rank of life, with you by my side
I should have cheerfully laboured; and, with your hand in mine, I should have said, I have
found what is worth the world--happiness!"

Tears flowed down her cheeks, which were now like marble. She feebly attempted to smile, while,
with eyelids drooping, and her whole frame quivering with emotion, she murmured in broken accents,
"It is impossible--utterly impossible! leave me. I must not bring you a portionless, a helpless,
a nameless being--a mere dependent on your kindness, a burden on your fortune, an obstacle
to your whole advance in the world!" A rich flush suddenly lighted up her lovely countenance,
and a new splendour flashed from her eyes. She threw back her head loftily, and looking upwards,
as if to draw thoughts from above--"Sir," said she, "I am as proud as you. I have had noble
ancestors; I have borne a noble name. If that name has fallen, it is in the common wreck of
my country. Our fortunes have sunk, only where the monarchy has gone down along with them;
and I shall never degrade the memory of those ancestors, nor humiliate still more the fallen
name of our house, by imposing my obscurity, my poverty, on one who has honoured me as you
have done. Now--farewell! My resolution is fixed. Farewell, my friend! I shall never forget
this day." She turned away her face, and wept abundantly; then, fixing a deep look on me, she
added--"I own that it would be a consolation to Clotilde de Tourville to believe that she may
be sometimes remembered; but, until times change, we meet no more--if they change not, we part
for ever."

I was so completely startled, so thunderstruck, by this declaration, that I could not utter
a word. I stood gazing at her with open lips. I felt a mist gathering over my eyes; a strange
sensation about my heart chilled my whole frame. I tottered to the sofa and pressed my hand
in pain upon my eyes; when I withdrew it, I was alone--Clotilde was gone, she had vanished
with the silence of a vision.

I left the house immediately, in a state of mind which seemed like a dissolution of all my
faculties. I could not speak--I could scarcely see--I could only gasp for air, and retain sufficient
power over my limbs to guide my steps to my melancholy dwelling. There I threw myself on my
rough bed, and lingered throughout the day in an exhaustion of mind and body, which I sometimes
thought to be the approach of death. How little could Clotilde have intended that I should
suffer thus for her high-toned delicacy! Still, in all my misery of soul, I did her justice.
I remembered the countenance of melancholy beauty with which she announced her final determination.
The accents of her impassioned voice continually rose in my recollection, giving the deepest
testimony of a heart struggling at once with affection and a sense of duty. In my wildest reveries
during that day and night of wretchedness, I felt that, if she could have spared me a single
pang, she would have rejoiced to cheer, to console, to tranquillize me. Those were strange
feelings for a rejected lover, but they were entirely mine. There was so lofty a spirit in
her glance, so true a sincerity in her language, so pure and transparent a truth in her sighs,
and smiles, and involuntary tears, that I acquitted her, from my soul, of all attempts to try,
or triumph over, my devotion to her. More than once, during that night of anguish, I almost
imagined the scene of the day actually passing again before my eyes. I saw her sorrows, and
vainly endeavoured to subdue them; I heard her convulsive tones, and attempted to calm them;
I reasoned with her, talked of our common helplessness, acknowledged the dignity and the delicacy
of her conduct, and even gave her lip the kiss of peace and sorrow as I bade her farewell.
Deep but exquisite illusion! which I cherished, and strove to renew; until, suddenly aroused
by some changing of the sentinels, or passing of the attendants, I looked round, and saw nothing
but the gloomy roof, the old flickering of the huge lantern hanging from the centre of the
hall, and the beds where so many had slept their last, and which so many of the sleepers were
never to leave with life. I then had the true experience of human passion. Love, in the light
and gay, may be as sportive as themselves; in the calm and grave, it may be strong and deep;
but in some, it is strong as tempest and consuming as flame.

I should probably have closed my days in that place of all afflicting sights and sounds, but
for my good old Béguine. On her first visit at dawn, she lectured me prodigiously on the folly
of exposing myself to the hazards of the night air, of which she evidently thought much more
than of the Austrian cannon-balls. "They might shower upon the buildings as they pleased, but,"
said the Béguine, "if they kill, their business is done. It is your cold, your damp, your night
air, that carries off, without letting any one know how," the perplexity of science on the
subject plainly forming the chief evil in poor Juliet's mind.

"See my own condition," said she, striving to bring her recollections in aid of her advice.
"At fifteen I was a barmaid at the Swartz Adler; there I ran in and out, danced at all the
family fêtes, and was as gay as a bird on the tree. But that life was too good to last. At
twenty, a corporal of Prussian dragoons fell in love with me, or I with him--it is all the
same. His regiment was ordered to Silesia, and away we all marched. But if ever there was a
country of fogs, that was the one. There are, now and then, a few even in our delightful France;
but, in Silesia, they have a patent for them, they have them par privilège; if men could eat
them, there would never be a chance of starving in Silesia. So we all got sore throats. Cannon
and musketry were nothing to them. Our dragoons dropped off like flies at the end of summer;
and, unless we had been ordered away to keep the Turks from marching to Berlin, or the saints
know where, the regiment would have had its last quarters in this world within a league of
the marshes of Breslau. So I say ever since--take care of damp."

Having thus relieved her good-natured spirit of its burden, she proceeded to give me sketches
of her history. The corporal had fallen a victim--though whether to Silesian fog, brandy, or
bullet, she left doubtful--and she had married his successor in the rank. Love and matrimony
in the army are of a different order from either in civil life; for the love is perpetual,
the matrimony precarious. Juliet acknowledged that she never left above a month's interval
between her afflictions as a widow and her consolations as a wife. In the course of time she
changed her service. A handsome Austrian sergeant won her heart and hand, and she followed
him to Hungary. There, between marsh fever and Turkish skirmishing, various casualties occurred
in the matrimonial list; and Juliet, who evidently had been a handsome brunette, and whose
French vivacity distanced all the heavy charms of the Austrian peasantry, was never without
a husband. At length, like other veterans, having served her country to the full extent of
her patriotism, she was discharged with her tenth husband, and of course induced the honest
Austrian to come to the only country on which, in a Frenchwoman's creed, the sun shines. There
the Austrian died.

"I loved him," said the Béguine, wiping her eyes. "He was an excellent fellow, though dull;
and I believe, next to smoking and schnaps, he loved me better than any thing else in the world.
But on his emperor's birth-day, which he always kept with a bottle of brandy additional, he
rambled out into the fog, and came back with a cold. Peste! I knew it was all over with him;
but I nursed him like a babe, and he died, like a true Austrian, with his meerschaum in his
mouth, bequeathing me his snuff-box, the certificate of his pension, and his blessing. I buried
him, got pensioned, and was broken-hearted. What, then, was to be done? I was born for society.
I once or twice thought of an eleventh husband; but I was rich. I had above a thousand francs,
and a pension of a hundred; this perplexed me. I was determined to be married for myself alone.
Yet, how could I know whether the hypocrites who clustered round me were not thinking of my
money all the while? So I determined to marry no more--and became a Béguine."

In all my vexation, I could not help turning my eye upon the sentimentalist. She interpreted
it in the happy way of her country. "You wonder at my self-denial," said she; "I perceive it
in your astonishment. I was but fifty then. Yes," said she, clasping her hands and looking
pathetic; "I acknowledge that it was cruel. What right had I to break so many hearts? I have
much to answer for--and I but fifty! I am even now but fifty-six. Yet, observe, I have taken
no vows; remark that, Monsieur le Capitaine. At this moment I am only a Soeur de Charité. No,
nothing shall ever induce me to make or keep the vows. I am free to marry to-morrow; and I
only beg, Monsieur le Capitaine, that when you are well enough to go abroad again, whether
in the town or in the country, or in whatever part of Europe you may travel, you will have
the kindness to state positively, most positively, that Juliet Donnertronk, née Ventrebleu,
has not taken, and never will take, any vows whatever!"

"Not even those of marriage, Juliet?" asked I.

She laughed, and patted my burning head, with "Ah, vous êtes bien bon! Ah, moqueur Anglais!"
finishing with all the pantomine of blushing confusion, and starting away like a fluttered pigeon.

As soon as I felt able to move, which was not till some days after, my first effort was to
reach the mansion in which Clotilde resided. But there I received the intelligence, that on
the evening of the day of my first and last visit, she had left the town with the superior
of the convent. She had made such urgent entreaties to the governor to be permitted to leave
Valenciennes, that he had obtained a passport for her from the general commanding the trenches;
and not only for her, but also for the nuns--the burning of whose convent had left them houseless.

Painful as it was thus to lose her, it was in some degree a relief to find that she was under
the protection of her relative; and when I saw, from day to day, the ravage that was committed
by the tremendous weight of fire, I almost rejoiced that she was no longer exposed to its perils.

But it was my fate, or perhaps my good fortune, never to be suffered to brood long over my
own calamities. My life was spent in the midst of tumults, which, if they did not extinguish--and
what could extinguish?--the sense of such mental trials, at least prevented the echo of my
complaints from returning to my ears. Before the midnight of that very day in which I had flung
myself on my couch with almost total indifference as to my ever resting on another, the whole
city was alarmed by the intelligence that the besiegers were evidently preparing for an assault.
I listened undisturbed. Even this could scarcely add to the horrors in which the inhabitants
lived from hour to hour; and to me it was the hope of a rescue, unless I should be struck by
some of the shells, which now were perpetually bursting in the streets, or should even fall
a victim to the wrath of the incensed garrison. But an order came suddenly to the officer in
charge of the hospital, to send all the patients into the vaults, and throw all the beds on
the roof, to deaden the weight of the fire. He was a man of gentlemanlike manners, and had
been attentive to me, in the shape of many of those minor civilities which a man of severe
authority might have refused, but which mark kindliness of disposition. On this night he told
me, that he had orders to put all the prisoners in arrest; but that he regarded me more as
a friend than a prisoner--and that I was at liberty to take any precaution for my security
which I thought proper. My answer was, "that I hoped, at all events, not to be shut into the
vaults, but to take my chance above ground." In the end, I proposed to assist in carrying the
mattresses to the roof, and remain there until the night was over. "But you will be hit," said
my friend. "So be it," was my answer. "It is the natural fate of my profession; but, at least,
I shall not be buried alive."

"All will be soon over with us all, and with Valenciennes," said the officer; "though whether
to-night or not, is a question. We have seen new batteries raised within the last twenty-four
hours. The enemy have now nearly three hundred heavy guns in full play; and, to judge from
the quantity of shells, they must have a hundred mortars besides. No fortress can stand this;
and, if it continues, we shall soon be ground into dust." He took his leave; and, with my mattress
on my shoulder, I mounted the numberless and creaking staircases, until the door of the roof
and the landscape opened on me together.

The night was excessively dark, but perfectly calm; and, except where the fire from the batteries
marked their position, all objects beyond the ramparts were invisible. The town around me lay
silent, and looking more like a vast grave than a place of human existence. Now and then the
light of a lantern gliding along the ruined streets, showed me a group of wretched beings hurrying
a corpse to the next churchyard, or a priest seeking his way over the broken heaps to attend
some dying soldier or citizen. All was utter desolation.

But a new scene--a terrible and yet a superb one--suddenly broke upon me. A discharge of rockets
from various points of the allied lines, showed that a general movement was begun. The batteries
opened along the whole extent of the trenches, and by their blaze I was able to discern, advancing
and formed in their rear, two immense columns, which, however, in the distance and the fitfulness
of the glare, looked more like huge clouds than living beings. The guns of the ramparts soon
replied, and the roar was deafening; while the plunging of shot along the ramparts and roofs
made our situation perilous in no slight degree. But, in the midst of this hurricane of fire,
I saw a single rocket shoot up from the camp, and the whole range of the batteries ceased at
the instant. The completeness of the cessation was scarcely less appalling than the roar. While
every telescope was turned intently to the spot, where the columns and batteries seemed to
have sunk together into the earth, a pyramid of blasting flame burst up to the very clouds,
carrying with it fragments of beams and masonry. The explosion rent the air, and shook the
building on which I stood as if it had been a house of sand. A crowd of engineer and staff-officers
now rushed on the roof, and their alarm at the results of the concussion was undisguised. "This
is what we suspected," said the chief to me; "but it was impossible to discover where the gallery
of their mine was run. Our counter mine has clearly failed." He had scarcely spoken the words,
before a second and still broader explosion tore up the ground to a great extent, and threw
the counterscarp for several hundred yards into the ditch. The drums of the columns were now
distinctly heard beating the advance; but darkness had again fallen, and all was invisible.
A third explosion followed, still closer to the ramparts, which blew up the face of the grand
bastion. The stormers now gave a general shout, and I saw them gallantly dashing across the
ditch and covered way, tearing down the palisades, fighting hand to hand, clearing the outworks
with the bayonet, and finally making a lodgement on the bastion itself. The red-coats, which
now swarmed through the works, and the colours planted on the rampart, showed me that my countrymen
had led the assault, and my heart throbbed with envy and admiration. "Why am I not there?"
was my involuntary cry; as I almost wished that some of the shots, which were not flying about
the roofs, would relieve me from the shame of being a helpless spectator. "Mon ami," said the
voice of the brave and good-natured Frenchman, who had overheard me--"if you wish to rejoin
your regiment, you will not have long to wait. This affair will not be decided to-night, as
I thought that it would be half an hour ago. I see that they have done as much as they intended
for the time, and mean to leave the rest to fright and famine. To-morrow will tell us something.
Pack up your valise. Bon soir!"

SONNET TO CLARKSON.

    Patriot for England's conscience! Champion keen
    Of man's one holy birthright! dear grey head,
    Laurell'd with blessings!--Hath my country bred
    Lips, to her shame, in unregenerate spleen
    Profaning heaven's own air with words unclean
    Against thy sacred name?--Th' august pure Dead
    In calm of glory sleep:--like them serene,
    In virtue firmlier mail'd than they with dust,
    Wait, Clarkson, on our sorrow-trodden sphere,
    Until her climes waft promise to thine ear,
    How each thy proud renown will have in trust:
    Then call'd, at the life-judging Throne appear
    On the right hand, avouched Loving and Just.

                                        A. B.

LETTER FROM THE RIGHT HON. CHARLES HOPE, LATE LORD PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF SESSION.

                                EDINBURGH, 25th October 1844.

TO THE EDITOR OF BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE.

SIR,

I did not read Mr Lockhart's "Life of Sir Walter Scott," and therefore it was only lately,
and by mere accident, I heard that he has inserted an anecdote of Lord Braxfield, which, if
it had been true, must for ever load his memory with indelible infamy. The story, in substance,
I understand to be this--That Lord Braxfield once tried a man for forgery at the Circuit at
Dumfries, who was not merely an acquaintance, but an intimate friend of his Lordship, with
whom he used to play at chess: That he did this as coolly as if he had been a perfect stranger:
That the man was found guilty: That he pronounced sentence of death upon him; and then added,
"Now, John, I think I have checkmated you now." A more unfeeling and brutal conduct it is hardly
possible to imagine. The moment I heard the story I contradicted it; as, from my personal knowledge
of Lord Braxfield, I was certain that it could not be true. Lord Braxfield certainly was not
a polished man in his manners; and now-a-days especially would be thought a coarse man. But
he was a kind-hearted man, and a warm and steady friend--intimately acquainted with all my
family, and much esteemed by them all. I was under great obligations to him for the countenance
he showed me when I came to the bar, just sixty years ago, and therefore I was resolved to
probe the matter to the bottom. For that purpose, I directed the record of the South Circuit
to be carefully searched, and the result is, that Lord Braxfield never tried any man for forgery
at Dumfries. But I was not satisfied with this, as it might have been said that Sir Walter
had only mistaken the town, and that the thing might have happened at some of the other Circuit
towns. Therefore I then directed a search to be made of the records of all the other Circuits
in Scotland, during the whole time that Lord Braxfield sat on the Justiciary Bench; and the
result is, that his Lordship never tried any man for forgery at any of the Circuits, except
once at Stirling; and then the culprit, instead of being a friend, or even a common acquaintance
of Lord Braxfield's, was a miserable shopkeeper in the town of Falkirk, whose very name it
is hardly possible he could have heard till he read it in the indictment. Therefore I think
I have effectually cleared his character from the ineffable infamy of such brutality.

I understand that Mr Lockhart became completely satisfied that this story did not apply to
Lord Braxfield; and therefore has set it down, in his second edition, to the credit, or rather
to the discredit, not of Lord Braxfield, but of a "certain judge." But this does not sufficiently
clear Lord Braxfield of it. Because thousands may never see his second edition, or if they
did, might think that the story still related to Lord Braxfield, but that Mr Lockhart had suppressed
his name out of delicacy to his family; and therefore, as your excellent Magazine has a more
extensive circulation in Scotland than the Quarterly, I beg of you to give this letter an early
place. I understand one circumstance which satisfied Mr Lockhart that the story did not apply
to Lord Braxfield is, that the family had assured him that he never played at chess--a fact
of which I could also have assured Mr Lockhart. But the search of the records of Justiciary,
which I directed to be made, is the most satisfactory refutation of the infamous calumny; and
I cannot imagine how Sir Walter could have believed it for a moment. Certainly he would not,
if he had known Lord Braxfield as intimately as I did. I owe a debt of gratitude to his memory,
and am happy to have an opportunity of repaying it.

                                I am,
                                  Sir,
                                    Your most obedient servant,
                                      C. HOPE.

POEMS BY ELIZABETH B. BARRETT.[31]

These volumes, from the pen of Miss Barrett, would be a remarkable publication at any time;
but, in the present dearth of poetical genius, their appearance is doubly welcome; their claims
on our consideration are doubly strong; and we cannot allow ourselves to pass them over without
some detailed notice of their contents. In spite of many blemishes in point of execution, this
lady's poems have left a very favourable impression on our mind. If the poetess does not always
command our unqualified approbation, we are at all times disposed to bend in reverence before
the deep-hearted and highly accomplished woman--a woman, whose powers appear to us to extend
over a wider and profounder range of thought and feeling, than ever before fell within the
intellectual compass of any of the softer sex.

If we might venture to divine this lady's moral and intellectual character from the general
tone of her writings, we should say, that never did woman's mind dwell more habitually among
the thoughts of a solemn experience--never was woman's genius impressed more profoundly with
the earnestness of life, or sanctified more purely by the overshadowing awfulness of death.
She aspires to write as she has lived; and certainly her poetry opens up many glimpses into
the history of a pure and profound heart which has felt and suffered much. At the same time,
a reflective cast of intellect lifts her feelings into a higher and calmer region than that
of ordinary sorrow. There are certain delicate and felicitous peculiarities in the constitution
of her sensibilities, which frequently impart a rare and subtle originality to emotions which
are as old, and as widely diffused, as the primeval curse. The spirit of her poetry appears
to us to be eminently religious; not because we think her very successful when she deals directly
with the mysteries of divine truth, but because she makes us feel, even when handling the least
sacred subjects, that we are in the presence of a heart which, in its purity, sees God. In
the writings of such a woman, there must be much which is calculated to be a blessing and a
benefit to mankind. If her genius always found a suitable exponent in her style, she would
stand unrivaled, we think, among the poetesses of England.

But whether it be that Miss Barrett is afraid of degrading poetry to the low rank of an accomplishment--whether
it be that she has some peculiar theory of her own on the subject of language, and on the mode
in which poetical emotions may be most felicitously expressed--whether it be that nature has
denied her the possession of a sound critical judgment, or that she refuses to exercise it
in the moment of inspiration--whether it be that she considers the habit of pure and polished
composition an attainment of very secondary importance--or whether it be that she has allowed
herself to be infected by the prevailing mannerisms of the day--certain it is, that there is
a large proportion of her poetry in which she has failed to add the graces of good style and
of careful versification to her other excellent acquirements. That she can write pure English,
and that she frequently does so, is undeniable. In some of the extracts which we shall give,
we believe that the language could scarcely be improved. But we are constrained to say, that
her compositions are very often disfigured by strained or slovenly modes of phraseology, which
greatly detract from their impressiveness, and which must materially injure the reputation
of their authoress, by turning away many hearts from the homage which they otherwise would
most willingly have rendered to her exalted genius.

Miss Barrett is a classical scholar. She surely knows that the great works in which she delights
have earned the epithet of classical, and come recommended to the reverence of all mankind,
solely in virtue of the scrupulous propriety of their language; and because they are fitted
to serve as models of style to all succeeding generations. The purity of their diction, and
nothing else, has been their passport to immortality. We cannot but lament that Miss Barrett
has not provided more surely for her future fame, by turning to their best account the lessons
which the masterpieces of antiquity are especially commissioned to teach.

Let it not be thought that we would counsel Miss Barrett, or any one else, to propose these
works to themselves as direct objects of imitation. Far from it. Such directions would be very
vague and unmeaning, and might lead to the commission of the very errors which they aimed at
preventing. The words "purity and propriety of diction" are themselves very vague words. Let
us say, then, that a style which goes at once to the point, which is felt to get through business,
and which carries with it no affectation, either real or apparent, is always a good style;
and that no other style is good. This is the quality which may be generalized from the works
of the great authors of all ages, as the prime characteristic of all good writing. Their style
is always pregnant with a working activity--it impresses us with the feeling that real work
is done here. We fear not to say that Milton himself owes much of his reputation to the peremptory
and business-like vigour of his style. He never beats about the bush--he never employs language
which a plain man would not have employed--if he could. The sublimity of "Paradise Lost" is
supported throughout by the direct force of its language--language the most elaborate, but
also the most to the point, and the least fantastical, that ever fell from human lips. There
are difficulties to encounter in the abstract conception of the poem. The naked argument does
not at first recommend itself to our understanding. It is not till we have vanquished those
difficulties,--in which step we are mainly assisted by the unparalleled execution of the work,--that
all our sympathies gravitate towards the mysterious theme.

Now if it be true that it requires all the force of a thoroughly practical style to reconcile
our affections to such remote and obscure conceptions as the fall of man, the war of the rebellious
angels, &c., it is peculiarly unfortunate that Miss Barrett, in her opening poem, entitled
a "Drama of Exile," should have ventured to tread on Miltonic ground. For, while our feelings
are naturally disposed to fly off at a tangent from the vague and impalpable conceptions which
form the staple of her poem, the dreamy and unpractical character of her style makes them fly
still further from the subject. The force of her language is not sufficient to bind down and
rivet our sympathies to the theme; and the lyrical portions of the drama, in particular, are
so inarticulate, that we are compelled to pronounce this composition--partial to it as its
authoress is--the least successful of her works.

But it is our wish to do full justice to Miss Barrett's extraordinary merits, and to convey
to our readers a favourable impression of her powers; and therefore we shall say no more at
present about the "Drama of Exile," but shall turn our attention to some of the fairer and
less questionable manifestations of her genius. We shall commence with her sonnets; for these
appear to us to be by far the most finished of her compositions in point of style; and in depth
and purity of sentiment, we think that they surpass any thing she has ever written, with the
exception of the poem entitled "Bertha in the Lane," which we shall quote hereafter. As our
first specimen, we select one which she entitles

    DISCONTENT.

    "Light human nature is too lightly tost
    And ruffled without cause; complaining on--
    Restless with rest--until, being overthrown,
    It learneth to lie quiet. Let a frost
    Or a small wasp have crept to the innermost
    Of our ripe peach; or let the wilful sun
    Shine westward of our window,--straight we run
    A furlong's sigh, as if the world were lost.
    But what time through the heart and through the brain
    God hath transfix'd us--we, so moved before,
    Attain to a calm! Ay, shouldering weights of pain,
    We anchor in deep waters, safe from shore;
    And hear, submissive, o'er the stormy main,
    God's charter'd judgments walk for evermore."

Yes; we fear it is too true that the voice of God never speaks so articulately to man, as when
it speaks in the desperate calm of a soul to which life or death has done its worst. The same
solemn thought with which the sonnet concludes, forms the moral of her ballad entitled the
"Lay of the Brown Rosary."

Then it is that the despair which blackens the earth strikes clear the face of the sky. Listen
again to Miss Barrett, when her soul is cheered by the promises of "Futurity:"--

    FUTURITY.

    "And, O beloved voices! upon which
    Ours passionately call, because erelong
    Ye brake off in the middle of that song
    We sang together softly, to enrich
    The poor world with the sense of love, and witch
    The heart out of things evil--I am strong,--
    Knowing ye are not lost for aye among
    The hills, with last year's thrush.

And again, listen to her hallowed and womanly strain when she speaks of "Comfort:"--

    COMFORT.

    "Speak low to me, my Saviour--low and sweet
    From out the hallelujahs, sweet and low,
    Lest I should fear and fall, and miss thee so
    Who art not miss'd by any that entreat.
    Speak to me as to Mary at thy feet--
    And if no precious gums my hands bestow,
    Let my tears drop like amber, while I go
    In reach of thy divinest voice complete
    In humanest affection--thus, in sooth
    To lose the sense of losing! As a child,
    Whose song-bird seeks the wood for evermore,
    Is sung to in its stead by mother's mouth;
    Till, sinking on her breast, love-reconciled,
    He sleeps the faster that he wept before."

How profound and yet how feminine is the sentiment! No man could have written that sonnet.
It rises spontaneously from the heart of a Christian woman, which overflows with feelings more
gracious and more graceful than ever man's can be. It teaches us what religious poetry truly
is; for it makes affections inspired by the simplest things of earth, to illustrate, with the
most artless beauty, the solemn consolations of the Cross.

The pointedness of the following religious sonnet is very striking and sublime. The text is,
"And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter."

    THE MEANING OF THE LOOK.

One more sonnet, and we bid adieu to these very favourable specimens of Miss Barrett's genius:--

    PATIENCE TAUGHT BY NATURE.

There is a poem in these volumes entitled the "Cry of the Human"--some stanzas of which are
inspired by profound feeling, and written with a rare force and simplicity of style; but as
other parts of it are obscure, and as it appears to us to be of very unequal merit, we shall
not quote the whole of it. In addition to the faults which are to be found in the poem itself,
its title is objectionable, as embodying one of Miss Barrett's worst mannerisms, and one for
which we think that no allowance ought to be made. She is in the habit of employing certain
adjectives in a substantive sense. She does so here. In other places she writes "Heaven assist
the Human." "Leaning from my human," that is, stooping from my rank as a human being. In one
passage she says,

    "Till the heavenly Infinite
    Falling off from our Created--"

nature being understood after the word "created." The word "divine" is one which she frequently
employs in this substantive fashion. She also writes "Chanting down the Golden"--the golden what?

    "Then the full sense of your mortal
    Rush'd upon you deep and loud."

For "mortal," read "mortality." It is true that this practice may be defended to a certain
extent by the example and authority of Milton. But Miss Barrett is mistaken if she supposes
that her frequent and prominent use of such a form of speech, can be justified by the rare
and unobtrusive instances of it which are to be found in the Paradise Lost. To use an anomalous
expression two or three times in a poem consisting of many thousand lines, is a very different
thing from bringing the same anomaly conspicuously forward, and employing it as a common and
favourite mode of speech in a number of small poems. In the former case, it will be found that
the expression is vindicated by the context, and by the circumstances under which it is employed;
in the latter case it becomes a nuisance which cannot be too rigorously put down. One step
further and we shall find ourselves talking, in the dialect of Yankeeland, of "us poor Humans!"
However, as the point appears to us to be one which does not admit of controversy, we shall
say no more on the subject, but shall proceed to the more agreeable duty of quoting the greater
portion of Miss Barrett's poem, which may be regarded as a commentary on the prayer--"The Lord
be merciful to us sinners."

    THE CRY OF THE HUMAN.

    "'There is no God,' the foolish saith,--
      But none, 'There is no sorrow;'
    And nature oft, the cry of faith,
      In bitter need will borrow:
    Eyes, which the preacher could not school,
      By wayside graves are raised;
    And lips say, 'God be pitiful,'
      Which ne'er said, 'God be praised.'
          Be pitiful, O God!

    "The curse of gold upon the land,
      The lack of bread enforces--
    The rail-cars snort from strand to strand,
      Like more of Death's White horses!
    The rich preach 'rights' and future days,
      And hear no angel scoffing:
    The poor die mute--with starving gaze
      On corn-ships in the offing.
          Be pitiful, O God!

    "We meet together at the feast--
      To private mirth betake us--
    We stare down in the winecup, lest
      Some vacant chair should shake us!
    We name delight and pledge it round--
      'It shall be ours to-morrow!'
    God's seraphs! do your voices sound
      As sad in naming sorrow?
          Be pitiful, O God!

    "We sit together with the skies,
      The steadfast skies above us:
    We look into each other's eyes,--
      'And how long will you love us?'--
    The eyes grow dim with prophecy,
      The voices, low and breathless--
    'Till death us part!'--O words, to be
      Our best for love the deathless!
          Be pitiful, dear God!
          Be pitiful, O God!

    "The happy children come to us,
      And look up in our faces:
    They ask us--Was it thus, and thus,
      When we were in their places?--
    We cannot speak:--we see anew
      The hills we used to live in;
    And feel our mother's smile press through
      The kisses she is giving.
        Be pitiful, O God!

    "We pray together at the kirk,
      For mercy, mercy, solely--
    Hands weary with the evil work,
      We lift them to the Holy!
    The corpse is calm below our knee--
      Its spirit, bright before Thee--
    Between them, worse than either, we--
      Without the rest or glory!
        Be pitiful, O God!

    "We sit on hills our childhood wist,
      Woods, hamlets, streams, beholding!
    The sun strikes, through the furthest mist,
      The city's spire to golden.
          Be pitiful, O God!

    "And soon all vision waxeth dull--
      Men whisper, 'He is dying:'
    We cry no more, 'Be pitiful!'--
      We have no strength for crying!--
    No strength, no need! Then, Soul of mine,
      Look up and triumph rather--
    Lo! in the depth of God's Divine,
      The Son adjures the Father--
          Be pitiful, O God!"

"The Romance of the Swan's Nest" is written in a different vein. It is characterized by graceful
playfulness of manner and sentiment, which shows how heartily the amiable authoress can enter
into the sympathies and enjoyments of child, and how much she is at home when she engages in
lighter dalliance with the muse. We have taken the liberty to print in italics two or three
Barrettisms, which however, we believe, are not very reprehensible. On the whole, it is very
pleasing and elegant performance:--

    ROMANCE OF THE SWAN'S NEST.

      "'He will kiss me on the mouth
    Then, and lead me as a lover,
      Through the crowds that praise his deeds!

But the gem of the collection is unquestionably the poem entitled "Bertha in the Lane." This
is the purest picture of a broken heart that ever drew tears from the eyes of woman or of man.
Although our extracts are likely to exceed the proportion which they ought to bear to our critical
commentary, we must be permitted to quote this poem entire. A grain of such poetry is worth
a cart-load of criticism:--

    BERTHA IN THE LANE.

    "Put the broidery-frame away,
    For my sewing is all done!
    The last thread is used to-day,
      And I need not join it on.
      Though the clock stands at the noon,
      I am weary! I have sewn
      Sweet, for thee, a wedding-gown.

    "Sister, help me to the bed,
      And stand near me, dearest-sweet,
    Do not shrink nor be afraid,
      Blushing with a sudden heat!
      No one standeth in the street?--
      By God's love I go to meet,
      Love I thee with love complete.

    "Lean thy face down! drop it in
      These two hands, that I may hold
    'Twixt their palms thy cheek and chin,
      Stroking back the curls of gold.

    "Thou art younger by seven years--
      Ah!--so bashful at my gaze,
    That the lashes, hung with tears,
      Grow too heavy to upraise?
      I would wound thee by no touch
      Which thy shyness feels as such--
      Dost thou mind me, dear, so much?

    "Have I not been nigh a mother
      To thy sweetness--tell me, dear?

    "Mother, mother, thou art kind,
      Thou art standing in the room,--
    In a molten glory shrined,
      That rays off into the gloom!
      But thy smile is bright and bleak
      Like cold waves--I cannot speak;
      I sob in it, and grow weak.

    "Ghostly mother, keep aloof
      One hour longer from my soul--
    For I still am thinking of
      Earth's warm-beating joy and dole!
      On my finger is a ring
      Which I still see glittering,
      When the night hides every thing.

    "Little sister, thou art pale!
      Ah! I have a wandering brain--
    But I lose that fever-bale,
      And my thoughts grow calm again.
      Lean down closer--closer still!
      I have words thine ear to fill,--
      And would kiss thee at my will.

    "Dear, I heard thee in the spring,
      Thee and Robert--through the trees,
    When we all went gathering
      Boughs of May-bloom for the bees.
      Do not start so! think instead
      How the sunshine overhead
      Seem'd to trickle through the shade.

    "What a day it was, that day!
      Hills and vales did openly
    Seem to heave and throb away,
      At the sight of the great sky:
      And the silence, as it stood
      In the glory's golden flood,
      Audibly did bud--and bud!

    "Through the winding hedgerows green,
      How we wander'd, I and you,--
    With the bowery tops shut in,
      And the gates that show'd the view--
      How we talk'd there! thrushes soft
      Sang our pauses out,--or oft
      Bleatings took them, from the croft.

    "Till the pleasure, grown too strong,
      Left me muter evermore;
    And, the winding road being long,
      I walked out of sight, before;
      And so, wrapt in musings fond,
      Issued (past the wayside pond)
      On the meadow-lands beyond.

    "I sate down beneath the beech
      Which leans over to the lane,
    And the far sound of your speech
      Did not promise any pain:
      And I bless'd you full and free,
      With a smile stoop'd tenderly
      O'er the May-flowers on my knee.

    "But the sound grew into word
      As the speakers drew more near--
    Sweet, forgive me that I heard
      What you wish'd me not to hear.
      Do not weep so--do not shake--
      Oh,--I heard thee, Bertha, make
      Good true answers for my sake.

      "Yes, and HE too! let him stand
      In thy thoughts, untouch'd by blame.
    Could he help it, if my hand
      He had claim'd with hasty claim?
      That was wrong perhaps--but then
      Such things be--and will, again!
      Women cannot judge for men.

      "Had he seen thee, when he swore
      He would love but me alone?
    Thou wert absent,--sent before
      To our kin in Sidmouth town.
      When he saw thee who art best
      Past compare, and loveliest,
      He but judged thee as the rest.

      "Could we blame him with grave words,
      Thou and I, Dear, if we might?
    Thy brown eyes have looks like birds,
      Flying straightway to the light:
      Mine are older.--Hush!--Look out--
      Up the street! Is none without?
      How the poplar swings about!

      "And that hour--beneath the beech,--
      When I listen'd in a dream,
    And he said, in his deep speech,
      That he owed me all esteem,--
      Each word swam in on my brain
      With a dim, dilating pain,
      Till it burst with that last strain--

      "I fell flooded with a Dark,
      In the silence of a swoon--
    When I rose, still cold and stark,
      There was night,--I saw the moon:
      And the stars, each in its place,
      And the May-blooms on the grass,
      Seem'd to wonder what I was.

      "And I walk'd as if apart
      From myself, when I could stand--
    And I pitied my own heart,
      As if I held it in my hand,--
      Somewhat coldly,--with a sense
      Of fulfill'd benevolence,
      And a 'poor thing' negligence.

      "And I answer'd coldly too,
      When you met me at the door;
    And I only heard the dew
      Dripping from me to the floor:
      And the flowers I bade you see,
      Were too wither'd for the bee,--
      As my life, henceforth, for me.

      "Do not weep so--dear--heart-warm!
      It was best as it befell!
    If I say he did me harm,
      I speak wild,--I am not well.
      All his words were kind and good--
      He esteem'd me! Only blood
      Runs so faint in womanhood.

      "Then I always was too grave,--
      Liked the saddest ballads sung,--
    With that look, besides, we have
      In our faces, who die young.
      I had died, Dear, all the same--
      Life's long, joyous, jostling game
      Is too loud for my meek shame.

      "We are so unlike each other,
      Thou and I; that none could guess
    We were children of one mother,
      But for mutual tenderness.

      "I am pale as crocus grows
      Close beside a rose-tree's root!
    Whosoe'er would reach the rose,
      Treads the crocus underfoot--
      I, like May-bloom on thorn tree--
      Thou, like merry summer-bee!
      Fit, that I be pluck'd for thee.

      "Yet who plucks me?--no one mourns--
      I have lived my season out,--
    And now die of my own thorns
      Which I could not live without.
      Sweet, be merry! How the light
      Comes and goes! If it be night,
      Keep the candles in my sight.

      "Are there footsteps at the door?
      Look out quickly. Yea, or nay?
    Some one might be waiting for
      Some last word that I might say.
      Nay? So best!--So angels would
      Stand off clear from deathly road--
      Not to cross the sight of God.

      "Colder grow my hands and feet--
      When I wear the shroud I made,
    Let the folds lie straight and neat,
      And the rosemary be spread--
      That if any friend should come,
      (To see thee, sweet!) all the room
      May be lifted out of gloom.

      "On that grave, drop not a tear!
      Else, though fathom-deep the place,
    Through the woollen shroud I wear,
      I shall feel it on my face.
      Rather smile there, blessed one,
      Thinking of me in the sun--
      Or forget me--smiling on!

      "Art thou near me? nearer? so!
      Kiss me close upon the eyes--
    That the earthly light may go
      Sweetly as it used to rise--
      When I watch'd the morning-gray
      Strike, betwixt the hills, the way
      He was sure to come that day.

      "So--no more vain words be said!
      The hosannas nearer roll--
    Mother, smile now on thy Dead--
      I am death-strong in my soul!
      Mystic Dove alit on cross,
      Guide the poor bird of the snows
      Through the snow-wind above loss!

      "Jesus, Victim, comprehending
      Love's divine self-abnegation--
    Cleanse my love in its self-spending,
      And absorb the poor libation!
      Wind my thread of life up higher,
      Up through angels' hands of fire!--
      I aspire while I expire!"

The following extract from a little poem entitled "Sleeping and Watching," is very touching
in its simplicity. Miss Barrett is watching over a slumbering child. How softly does the spirit
of the watcher overshadow the cradle with the purest influences of its own sanctified sorrows,
while she thus speaks!--

    "I, who cannot sleep as well,
      Shall I sigh to view you?
    Or sigh further to foretell
      All that may undo you?
    Nay, keep smiling, little child,
      Ere the sorrow neareth,--
    I will smile too! Patience mild
      Pleasure's token weareth.
    Nay, keep sleeping, before loss;
      I shall sleep though losing!
    As by cradle, so by cross,
      Sure is the reposing.

    "And God knows, who sees us twain,
      Child at childish leisure,
    I am near as tired of pain
      As you seem of pleasure;--
    Very soon too, by his grace
      Gently wrapt around me,
    Shall I show as calm a face,
      Shall I sleep as soundly!
    Differing in this, that you
      Clasp your playthings sleeping,
    While my hand shall drop the few
      Given to my keeping;

    "Differing in this, that I
      Sleeping, shall be colder,
    And in waking presently,
      Brighter to beholder!
    Differing in this beside
      (Sleeper, have you heard me?
    Do you move, and open wide
      Eyes of wonder toward me?)--
    That while I draw you withal
      From your slumber, solely,--
    Me, from mine, an angel shall,
      With reveillie holy!"

After having perused these extracts, it must be impossible for any one to deny that Miss Barrett
is a person gifted with very extraordinary powers of mind, and very rare sensibilities of heart.
She must surely be allowed to take her place among the female writers of England as a poetess
of no ordinary rank; and if she does not already overtop them all, may she one day stand forth
as the queen of that select and immortal sisterhood! It is in her power to do so if she pleases.

It is now our duty to revert to the principal poem in the collection, respecting which we have
already ventured to pronounce rather an unfavourable opinion. The "Drama of Exile" is the most
ambitious of Miss Barrett's compositions. It is intended to commemorate the sayings and doings
of our First Parents, immediately subsequent to their expulsion from the garden of Eden. Its
authoress, with sincere modesty, disclaims all intention of entering into competition with
Milton; but the comparison must, of course, force itself upon the reader; and although it was
not to be expected that she should rise so soaringly as Milton does above the level of her
theme, it was at any rate to be expected that her dramatis personæ should not stand in absolute
contrast to his. Yet Milton's Satan and Miss Barrett's Lucifer are the very antipodes of each
other. Milton's Satan is a thoroughly practical character, and, if he had been human, he would
have made a first-rate man of business in any department of life. Miss Barrett's Lucifer, on
the contrary, is the poorest prater that ever made a point of saying nothing to the purpose,
and we feel assured that he could have put his hand to nothing in heaven, on earth, or in hell.
He has nothing to do, he does nothing, and he could do nothing. He seems incapable of excogitating
a single plot of treachery, or of carrying into execution a single deed of violence. His thoughts
are a great deal too much taken up about his own personal appearance. Gabriel is an equally
irresolute character. The following is a portion of a dialogue which takes place between the
two; and it is perhaps as fair a sample of the drama as any that we could select. Near the
beginning of the poem Gabriel concludes a short address to Lucifer with these words--

    "Go from us straightway.

    Lucifer.          Wherefore?

    Gabriel.                     Lucifer,
    Thy last step in this place, trod sorrow up.
    Recoil before that sorrow, if not this sword.

    Lucifer. Angels are in the world--wherefore not I?
    Exiles are in the world--wherefore not I?
    The cursed are in the world--wherefore not I?

    Gabriel. Depart.

    Lucifer.        And where's the logic of 'depart?'
    Our lady Eve had half been satisfied
    To obey her Maker, if I had not learnt
    To fix my postulate better. Dost thou dream
    Of guarding some monopoly in heaven
    Instead of earth? Why I can dream with thee
    To the length of thy wings.

    Gabriel.             I do not dream.
    This is not heaven, even in a dream; nor earth,
    As earth was once,--first breathed among the stars,--
    Articulate glory from the mouth divine,--
    To which the myriad spheres thrill'd audibly,
    Touch'd like a lute-string,--and the sons of God
    Said AMEN, singing it. I know that this
    Is earth, not new created, but new cursed--
    This, Eden's gate, not open'd, but built up
    With a final cloud of sunset. Do I dream?
    Alas, not so! this is the Eden lost
    By Lucifer the serpent! this the sword
    (This sword, alive with justice and with fire,)
    That smote upon the forehead, Lucifer
    The angel! Wherefore, angel, go ... depart--
    Enough is sinn'd and suffer'd.

    Lucifer.                By no means."

It will be observed, that in this passage Gabriel thrice desires Lucifer to "move on;" it will
also be observed that Gabriel has a sword--or perhaps it may be the revolving sword which guards
Paradise that he speaks of; but be it so or not, he threatens Lucifer with the edge of the
sword unless he decamps; and yet, although the warning is repeated, as we have said, three
distinct times, and although Lucifer pertinaciously refuses to stir a step, still the weapon
remains innocuous, and the arch-fiend remains intact. This is not the way in which Milton manages
matters. Towards the conclusion of the fourth book of Paradise Lost, this same Gabriel orders
Satan to leave his presence--

                           "Avant!
    Fly thither whence thou fledd'st."

The rebel angel refuses to retire:--upon which, without more ado, both sides prepare themselves
for battle. On the side of Gabriel

                "Th'angelic squadron bright
    Turned fiery red, sharpening in mooned horns
    Their phalanx."

What an intense picture of ardour preparatory to action (it is night, remember) is presented
to our imaginations by the words "turned fiery red!"

But in the interview which Miss Barrett describes between Gabriel and Lucifer, no such headlong
propensity to act is manifested by either party--no such crisis ensues to interrupt the fray.
Gabriel is satisfied with giving utterance to a feeble threat, which, when he finds that Lucifer
pays no attention to it, he never attempts to carry into execution. For no apparent cause,
he suddenly changes his tone, and condescends to hold parley with his foe on a variety of not
very interesting particulars, informing him, among other things, that he "does not dream!"

The following is Lucifer's description of our First Mother. It is impregnated with Miss Barrett's
mannerisms, and strongly characterized by that fantastical and untrue mode of picturing sensible
objects, which the example of Shelley and Keates tended especially to foster, if they were
not the first to introduce it:--

    "Lucifer. Curse freely! curses thicken. Why, this Eve
    Who thought me once part worthy of her ear,
    And somewhat wiser than the other beasts,--
    Drawing together her large globes of eyes,
    The light of which is throbbing in and out
    Around their continuity of gaze,--
    Knots her fair eyebrows in so hard a knot,
    And, down from her white heights of womanhood,
    Looks on me so amazed,--I scarce should fear
    To wager such an apple as she pluck'd,
    Against one riper from the tree of life,
    That she could curse too--as a woman may--
    Smooth in the vowels."

We do not very well understand why Eve's curses should have been smoother in the vowels than
in the consonants. But as we are no great elocutionists, or at all well conversant with the
mysteries of "labials," "dentals," and "gutterals," we shall not contest the point with Lucifer,
lest we should only expose our own ignorance.

Respecting the leading conception of her drama, Miss Barrett writes thus:--"My subject was
the new and strange experience of the fallen humanity as it went forth from Paradise into the
wilderness; with a peculiar reference to Eve's allotted grief, which, considering that self-sacrifice
belonging to her womanhood, and the consciousness of originating the Fall to her offence--appeared
to me imperfectly apprehended hitherto, and more expressible by a woman than a man." No wonder
that Miss Barrett failed in her undertaking. In the conception of Eve's grief as distinguished
from Adam's, and as coloured by the circumstances of her situation--namely, by the consciousness
that she had been the first to fall, and the proximate cause of Adam's transgression--there
is certainly no sufficient foundation to sustain the weight of a dramatic poem. At the most,
it might have furnished materials for a sonnet. It therefore detracts nothing from the genius
of Miss Barrett to say, that her attempt has been unsuccessful. She has tried to make bricks
not only without straw, but almost without clay; and that being the case, the marvel is that
she should have succeeded so well.

"There was room at least," continues Miss Barrett, "for lyrical emotion in those first steps
into the wilderness, in that first sense of desolation after wrath, in that first audible gathering
of the recriminating 'groan of the whole creation,' in that first darkening of the hills from
the recoiling feet of angels, and in that first silence of the voice of God." There certainly
was room for lyrical emotion in these first steps into wilderness. All nature might most appropriately
be supposed to break forth in melodious regrets around the footsteps of the wanderers: but
we cannot think that Miss Barrett has done justice to nature's strains. Unless lyrical emotion
be expressed in language as clear as a mountain rill, and as well defined as the rocks over
which it runs, it is much better left unsung. The merit of all lyrical poetry consists in the
clearness and cleanness with which it is cut; no tags or loose ends can any where be permitted.
But Miss Barrett's lyrical compositions are frequently so inarticulate, so slovenly, and so
defective, both in rhythm and rhyme, that we are really surprised how a person of her powers
could have written them, and how a person of any judgment could have published them. Take a
specimen, not by any means the worst, from the "Song of the morning star to Lucifer:"--

    "Mine orbed image sinks
      Back from thee, back from thee,
    As thou art fallen, methinks,
      Back from me, back from me.
        O my light-bearer,
        Could another fairer
      Lack to thee, lack to thee?
        Ai, ai, Heosphoros!
    I loved thee, with the fiery love of stars.
    Who love by burning, and by loving move,
    Too near the throned Jehovah, not to love.
        Ai, ai, Heosphoros!
    Their brows flash fast on me from gliding cars,
        Pale-passion'd for my loss.
        Ai, ai, Heosphoros!

    "Mine orbed heats drop cold
      Down from thee, down from thee,
    As fell thy grace of old
      Down from me, down from me.
        O my light-bearer,
        Is another fairer
      Won to thee, won to thee?
        Ai, ai, Heosphoros,
        Great love preceded loss,
      Known to thee, known to thee.
        Ai, ai!
    Thou, breathing they communicable grace
      Of life into my light
    Mine astral faces, from thine angel face,
      Hast inly fed,
    And flooded me with radiance overmuch
      From thy pure height.
        Ai, ai!
    Thou, with calm, floating pinions both ways spread,
        Erect, irradiated,
        Didst sting my wheel of glory
        On, on before thee,
    Along the Godlight, by a quickening touch!
        Ha, ha!
    Around, around the firmamental ocean,
    I swam expanding with delirious fire!
    Around, around, around, in blind desire
    To be drawn upward to the Infinite--
        Ha, ha!"

But enough of Ai ai Heosphoros. It may be very right for ladies to learn Greek--not, however,
if it is to lead them to introduce such expressions as this into the language of English poetry.

Nor do we think that Miss Barrett's lyrical style improves when she descends to themes of more
human and proximate interest, and makes the "earth-spirits" and the "flower-spirits" pour their
lamentations into the ears of the exiled pair. The following is the conclusion of the láyment
(as Miss Barrett pronounces the word lament) of the "flower-spirits:"--

       "We pluck at your raiment,
          We stroke down your hair,
        We faint in our láment,
          And pine into air.
        Fare-ye-well--farewell!
    The Eden scents, no longer sensible,
        Expire at Eden's door!
        Each footstep of your treading
    Treads out some fragrance which ye knew before:
        Farewell! the flowers of Eden
        Ye shall smell never more."

Would not Miss Barrett's hair have stood on end if Virgil had written "Arma virumque canto?"
Yet surely that false quantity would have been not more repugnant to the genius of Latin verse
than her transposition of accent in the word lamént is at variance with the plainest proprieties
of the English tongue.

The "earth-spirits" deliver themselves thus:--

    Earth Spirits.
        "And we scorn you! there's no pardon
          Which can lean to you aright!
        When your bodies take the guerdon
          Of the death-curse in our sight,
      Then the bee that hummeth lowest shall transcend you.
        Then ye shall not move an eyelid
          Though the stars look down your eyes;
        And the earth, which ye defiled,
          She shall show you to the skies,--
      Lo! these kings of ours--who sought to comprehend you.'

    First Spirit.
        And the elements shall boldly
          All your dust to dust constrain;
        Unresistedly and coldly,
          I will smite you with my rain!
      From the slowest of my frosts is no receding.

    Second Spirit.
        And my little worm, appointed
          To assume a royal part,
        He shall reign, crown'd and anointed,
          O'er the noble human heart!
      Give him counsel against losing of that Eden!"

In one of the lyrical effusions, man is informed that when he goes to heaven--

      "Then a sough of glory
      Shall your entrance greet,
    Ruffling round the doorway
      The smooth radiance it shall meet."

We wonder what meaning Miss Barrett attaches to the word sough! It is a term expressive of
the dreary sighing of autumnal winds, or any sound still more disconsolate and dreary; and
therefore, to talk of a "sough of glory," is to talk neither more nor less than absolute nonsense.

What can be more unlyrical than this verse?

    "Live, work on, oh, Earthy!
      By the Actual's tension
    Sped the arrow worthy
      Of a pure ascension."

We have said that the lyrical effusions interspersed throughout the "Drama of Exile," are very
slovenly and defective in point of rhyme. What can be worse than "Godhead" and "wooded," "treading"
and "Eden," "glories" and "floorwise," "calmly" and "palm-tree," "atoms" and "fathoms," "accompted"
and "trumpet," and a hundred others? What can be worse, do we ask? We answer that there is
one species of rhyme which Miss Barrett is sometimes, though, we are happy to say, very rarely,
guilty of, which is infinitely more reprehensible than any of these inaccuracies. We allude
to the practice of affixing an r to the end of certain words, in order to make them rhyme with
other words which terminate in that letter. Writers who are guilty of this atrocity are not
merely to be condemned as bad rhymesters: they are to be blamed on the far more serious ground
that they give the sanction and authority of print to one of the vilest vulgarisms which pollutes
the oral language of certain provincial societies. What makes the practice so offensive in
literary composition is the fact, that the barbarism is one which may sometimes be actually
heard falling from living lips. But for this, it would be pardonable. We verily believe that
Miss Barrett herself does not talk of "Laurar" and "Matildar;" we verily believe that she would
consider any one who does so no fit associate for herself in point of manners or education:--yet
she scruples not to make "Aceldama"(r) rhyme to "tamer," and "Onora"(r) rhyme to "o'er her."
When we think of these things, we turn to the following "stage-direction" with which her "Drama
of Exile" concludes--"There is a sound through the silence as of the falling tears of an angel."
That angel must have been a distressed critic like ourselves.

Next to the "Drama of Exile," the longest poem in the collection is the composition entitled
"A Vision of Poets." This poem is designed, says our authoress, "to indicate the necessary
relations of genius to suffering and self-sacrifice." It is stamped throughout with the thoughtful
earnestness of Miss Barrett's character, and is, on the whole, a very impressive performance.
But it would have been more impressive still if it had been composed after less vicious models,
or if Miss Barrett had trusted more to a style prompted by her own native powers, and less
to the fantastical modes of phraseology which have been introduced into literature by certain
inferior artists of this and the preceding generation. We cannot read it, however, without
appreciating the fervour which stirs the soul of the authoress through all its depths, when
she declares and upholds the sacred mission of the poet, and teaches him that he must embrace
his destiny with gratitude and pride, even though the crown which encircles his living brows
be one in which the thorns far out-number the laurel leaves. We shall grace our pages with
a series of portraits, in which Miss Barrett sketches off first the true poets and then the
pretenders. They certainly contain some good points, although many of her touches must be pronounced
unsuccessful. Let Homer lead the van:--

    "Here, Homer, with the broad suspense
    Of thunderous brows, and lips intense
    Of garrulous god-innocence.

    "There, Shakspeare! on whose forehead climb
    The crowns o' the world! Oh, eyes sublime--
    With tears and laughters for all time!

    "Here, Æschylus--the women swoon'd
    To see so awful when he frown'd
    As the gods did--he standeth crown'd.

    "Euripides, with close and mild
    Scholastic lips--that could be wild,
    And laugh or sob out like a child

    "Right in the classes. Sophocles,
    With that king's look which down the trees,
    Follow'd the dark effigies

    "Of the lost Theban! Hesiod old,
    Who somewhat blind, and deaf, and cold,
    Cared most for gods and bulls! and bold

    "Electric Pindar, quick as fear,
    With race-dust on his checks, and clear,
    Slant startled eyes that seem to hear

    "The chariot rounding the last goal,
    To hurtle past it in his soul!
    And Sappho crown'd with aureole

    "Of ebon curls on calmed brows--
    O poet-woman! none forgoes
    The leap, attaining the repose!

    "Theocritus, with glittering locks,
    Dropt sideway, as betwixt the rocks
    He watch'd the visionary flocks!

    "And Aristophanes! who took
    The world with mirth, and laughter-struck
    The hollow caves of Thought, and woke

    "The infinite echoes hid in each.
    And Virgil! shade of Mantuan beech
    Did help the shade of bay to reach

    "And knit around his forehead high!--
    For his gods wore less majesty
    Than his brown bees humm'd deathlessly.

    "Lucretius--nobler than his mood!
    Who dropp'd his plummet down the broad
    Deep universe, and said 'No God,'

    "Finding no bottom. He denied
    Divinely the divine, and died
    Chief poet on the Tiber-side,

    "By grace of God. His face is stern,
    As one compell'd, in spite of scorn,
    To teach a truth he could not learn.

    "And Ossian, dimly seen or guess'd!
    Once counted greater than the rest,
    When mountain-winds blew out his vest.

    "And Spenser droop'd his dreaming head
    (With languid sleep-smile you had said
    From his own verse engendered)

    "On Ariosto's, till they ran
    Their locks in one!--The Italian
    Shot nimbler heat of bolder man

    "From his fine lids. And Dante stern
    And sweet, whose spirit was an urn
    For wine and milk pour'd out in turn.

    "And Goethe--with that reaching eye
    His soul reach'd out from far and high,
    And fell from inner entity.

    "And Schiller, with heroic front
    Worthy of Plutarch's kiss upon't--
    Too large for wreath of modern wont.

    "Here Milton's eyes strike piercing-dim!
    The shapes of suns and stars did swim
    Like clouds on them, and granted him

    "God for sole vision! Cowley, there,
    Whose active fancy debonaire
    Drew straws like amber--foul to fair.

    "And Burns, with pungent passionings
    Set in his eyes. Deep lyric springs
    Are of the fire-mount's issuings.

    "And poor, proud Byron--sad as grave
    And salt as life! forlornly brave,
    And quivering with the dart he drave.

    "And visionary Coleridge, who
    Did sweep his thoughts as angels do
    Their wings, with cadence up the Blue."

"Homer" we are not sure about; we can only hope that there may be people whom the picture will
please. "Shakspeare" is good. "Æschylus" (Miss Barrett's favourite, too,) is treated very scurvily
and very ungrammatically. What on earth are we to make of the words "the women swooned to see
so awful" &c.? It is well known that no pregnant woman could look Æschylus in the face when
the fit of inspiration was on him, without having cause to regret her indiscretion. But though
delicacy might have dictated that this fact should be only barely hinted at, surely grammar
need not have miscarried in the statement. The syntax of the passage will puzzle future commentators
as much as some of his own corrupt choruses. "Euripides" promises well; but the expression,
"Right in the classes," throws our intellect completely on its beam-ends; and as we cannot
right it again, in order to take a second glance at the poet of Medea, we must pass on to the
next. "Sophocles" will be acceptable to scholars. "Hesiod" is excellent. "Cared most for gods
and bulls" is worth any money. "Pindar" and "Sappho" are but so so. The picture of "Theocritus"
is very beautiful. There is nothing particularly felicitous in the sketch of "Aristophanes."
How much more graphic is what Milton, in one of his prose works, says with respect to the "holy
Chrysostom's" study of the same. Chrysostom, it seems, was a great student of Aristophanes.
Some people might have been, and no doubt were, scandalized to think that so pious a father
of the church should have made a bosom companion of so profane and virulent a wit: but says
Milton, the holy father was quite right in poring over Aristophanes, for "he had the art to
cleanse a scurrilous vehemence into the style of a rousing sermon." Put that into verse and
it would ring well. We thank Miss Barrett for the graphic touch of Virgil's "brown bees," which
certainly are better than his gods. "Lucretius" is very finely painted. "Ossian" looms large
through the mist, but walk up to him, and the pyramid is but a cairn. "Spenser" and "Ariosto,"
with their locks blended in one, compose a very sweet picture. "Dante" we will not answer for.
"Goethe" is a perfect enigma. What does the word "fell" mean? [Greek: deinos], we suppose--that
is, "not to be trifled with." But surely it sounds very strange, although it may be true enough,
to say that this "fellness" is occasioned by "inner entity." But perhaps the line has some
deeper meaning, which we are unable to fathom. We have seen a better picture than that of Goethe
in the hour of inspiration, when his forehead was like a precipice dim with drifting sleet.
"Schiller" is well drawn; evidently from Thorwaldsen's gigantic statue of the poet. Miss Barrett
paints "Milton" in his blindness as seeing all things in God. But Mallebranche had already
taught that God is the "sole vision" of all of us; and therefore, if that theory be correct,
she has failed to assign to the poet of the Fall any distinctive attribute which distinguishes
him from other men. "Cowley" is well characterized. "Burns" ought to have been better. "Byron"
pleases us. "Coleridge" has very considerable merit.

As a contrast to the preceding sketches of the true poets, (many of which, however, we have
omitted, and we may also remark, in parenthesis, that none of our living poets are meddled
with,) we now pass before the eyes of the reader a panorama of pretenders. We shall make no
remarks on the expression of their features, leaving Miss Barrett to brand them as they deserve
with her just scorn and indignation--

    "One dull'd his eyeballs as they ached,
    With Homer's forehead--though he lack'd
    An inch of any! And one rack'd

    "His lower lip with restless tooth--
    As Pindar's rushing words forsooth
    Were pent behind it. One, his smooth

    "Pink cheeks, did rumple passionate,
    Like Æschylus--and tried to prate
    On trolling tongue, of fate and fate!

    "One set her eyes like Sappho's--or
    Any light woman's! one forbore
    Like Dante, or any man as poor

    "In mirth, to let a smile undo
    His hard shut lips. And one, that drew
    Sour humours from his mother, blew

    "His sunken cheeks out to the size
    Of most unnatural jollities,
    Because Anacreon looked jest-wise.

    "So with the rest.--It was a sight
    For great world-laughter, as it might
    For great world-wrath, with equal right.

    "Out came a speaker from that crowd,
    To speak for all--in sleek and proud
    Exordial periods, while he bow'd

    "His knee before the angel.--'Thus,
    O angel! who hast call'd for us,
    We bring thee service emulous,--

    "'Fit service from sufficient soul--
    Hand-service, to receive world's dole--
    Lip-service, in world's ear to roll

    "'Adjusted concords--soft enow
    To hear the winecups passing through,
    And not too grave to spoil the show.

    "'Thou, certes, when thou askest more,
    O sapient angel! leanest o'er
    The window-sill of metaphor.

    "'To give our hearts up! fie!--That rage
    Barbaric, antedates the age!
    It is not done on any stage.

    "'Because your scald or gleeman went
    With seven or nine-string'd instrument
    Upon his back--must ours be bent?

    "'We are not pilgrims, by your leave,
    No, nor yet martyrs! if we grieve,
    It is to rhyme to ... summer eve.

    "'And if we labour, it shall be
    As suiteth best with our degree,
    In after-dinner reverie.'

    "More yet that speaker would have said--
    Poising between his smiles fair-fed,
    Each separate phrase till finished:

    "But all the foreheads of those born
    And dead true poets flash'd with scorn
    Betwixt the bay leaves round them worn--

    "Ay, jetted such brave fire, that they,
    The new-come, shrank and paled away,
    Like leaden ashes when the day

    "Strikes on the hearth! A spirit-blast,
    A presence known by power, at last
    Took them up mutely--they had pass'd!"

"Lady Geraldine's Courtship" is a poem of the Tennysonian school. Some pith is put forth in
the passionate parts of the poem; but it is deficient throughout in that finished elegance
of style which distinguishes the works of the great artist from whom it is imitated. Bertram,
a peasant-born poet falls in love with the Lady Geraldine, a woman of high rank and very extensive
possessions. He happens to overhear the lady address the following words to a suitor of the
same rank with herself, and whose overtures she is declining--

    "Yes, your lordship judges rightly. Whom I marry, shall be noble,
    Ay, and wealthy. I shall never blush to think how he was born."

Upon which, imagining that these words have some special and cutting reference to himself,
he passes into the presence of the lady, and rates her in a strain of very fierce invective,
which shows that his blood is really up, whatever may be thought of the taste which dictated
his language, or of the title he had to take to task so severely a lady who had never given
him any sort of encouragement. In a letter to a friend, he thus describes the way in which
he went to work--the fourth line is a powerful one--

    "Oh, she flutter'd like a tame bird, in among its forest-brothers,
    Far too strong for it! then drooping, bow'd her face upon her hands--
    And I spake out wildly, fiercely, brutal truths of her and others!
    I, she planted the desert, swathed her, windlike, with my sands.

    "I pluck'd up her social fictions, bloody-rooted, though leaf verdant,--
    Trod them down with words of shaming,--all the purples and the gold,
    And the 'landed stakes' and Lordships--all that spirits pure and ardent
    Are cast out of love and reverence, because chancing not to hold.

    "'Yet, O God' (I said,) 'O grave' (I said,) 'O mother's heart and bosom!
    With whom first and last are equal, saint and corpse and little child!
    We are fools to your deductions, in these figments of heart-closing!
    We are traitors to your causes, in these sympathies defiled!

    "'Learn more reverence, madam, not for rank or wealth--that needs
        no learning;
    That comes quickly--quick as sin does! ay, and often works to sin;
    But for Adam's seed, MAN! Trust me, 'tis a clay above your scorning,
    With God's image stamp'd upon it, and God's kindling breath within.

    "'What right have you, Madam, gazing in your shining mirror daily,
    Getting, so, by heart, your beauty, which all others must adore,--
    While you draw the golden ringlets down your fingers, to vow gaily,...
    You will wed no man that's only good to God,--and nothing more.'"

In the second stanza, we cannot make out the construction of the words, "all that spirits pure
and ardent are cast out of love and reverence." This vigorous tirade is continued throughout
several stanzas. The poor lady merely utters the word "Bertram," and the lover is carried to
bed in a fainting fit when his passion is expended. When he recovers he indites the aforesaid
letter. After he has dispatched it, the lady enters his apartment: oh, blessed and gracious
apparition! We quote the dénouement, omitting one or two stanzas--

    Soh! how still the lady standeth! 'tis a dream--a dream of mercies!
    'Twixt the purple lattice-curtains, how she standeth still and pale!
    'Tis a vision, sure, of mercies, sent to soften his self-curses--
    Sent to sweep a patient quiet, o'er the tossing of his wail.

    "Said he--'Wake me by no gesture,--sound of breath, or stir of vesture;
    Let the blessed apparition melt not yet to its divine!
    No approaching--hush! no breathing! or my heart must swoon to death in
    The too utter life thou bringest--O thou dream of Geraldine!'

    "Ever, evermore the while in a slow silence she kept smiling--
    But the tears ran over lightly from her eyes, and tenderly;
    'Dost thou, Bertram, truly love me? Is no woman far above me,
    Found more worthy of thy poet-heart, than such a one as I?'

    "Said he--'I would dream so ever, like the flowing of that river,
    Flowing ever in a shadow, greenly onward to the sea;
    So, thou vision of all sweetness--princely to a full completeness,--
    Would my heart and life flow onward--deathward--through this dream of THEE!'

    "Ever, evermore the while in a slow silence she kept smiling,--
    While the shining tears ran faster down the blushing of her cheeks;
    Then with both her hands enfolding both of his, she softly told him,
    'Bertram, if I say I love thee,... 'tis the vision only speaks.'

    "Soften'd, quicken'd to adore her, on his knee he fell before her--
    And she whisper'd low in triumph--'It shall be as I have sworn!
    Very rich he is in virtues,--very noble--noble certes;
    And I shall not blush in knowing, that men call him lowly born!"

With the exception of the line, and the other expressions which we have printed in italics,
we think that the whole tone of this finale is "beautiful exceedingly;" although, if we may
express our private opinion, we should say that the lover, after his outrageous demeanour,
was very unworthy of the good fortune that befell him. But, in spite of the propitious issue
of the poem, we must be permitted (to quote one of Miss Barrett's lines in this very lay) to
make our "critical deductions for the modern writers' fault." Will she, or any one else tell
us the meaning of the second line in this stanza? Or, will she maintain that it has any meaning
at all? Lady Geraldine's possessions are described--

    "She has halls and she has castles, and the resonant steam-eagles
    Follow far on the directing of her floating dove-like hand--
    With a thund'rous vapour trailing, underneath the starry vigils,
    So to mark upon the blasted heaven, the measure of her land."

We thought that steam-coaches generally followed the directing of no hand except the "stoker's;"
but it certainly is always much liker a raven than a dove. "Eagles and vigils" is not admissible
as a rhyme; neither is "branch and grange." Miss Barrett says of the Lady Geraldine that she
had "such a gracious coldness" that her lovers "could not press their futures on the present
of her courtesy." Is that human speech? One other objection and our carpings shall be dumb.
Miss Barrett, in our opinion, has selected a very bad, dislocated, and unmelodious metre for
the story of Lady Geraldine's courtship. The poem reads very awkwardly in consequence of the
rhymes falling together in the alternate lines and not in couplets. Will Miss Barrett have
the goodness to favour the public with the sequel of this poem? We should like to know how
the match between the peasant's son and the peer's daughter was found to answer.

Those among our readers who may have attended principally to the selections which we made from
these volumes before we animadverted on the "Drama of Exile," may perhaps be of opinion that
we have treated Miss Barrett with undue severity, and have not done justice to the vigour and
rare originality of her powers; while others, who may have attended chiefly to the blemishes
of style and execution which we have thought it our duty to point out in our later quotations,
may possibly think that we have ranked her higher than she deserves. We trust that those who
have carefully perused both the favourable and unfavourable extracts, will give us credit for
having steered a middle course, without either running ourselves aground on the shoals of detraction,
or oversetting the ship by carrying too much sail in favour of our authoress. And although
they may have seen that our hand was sometimes unsteady at the helm, we trust that it has always
been when we felt apprehensive that the current of criticism was bearing us too strongly towards
the former of these perils. If any of our remarks have been over harsh, we most gladly qualify
them by saying, that, in our humble opinion, Miss Barrett's poetical merits infinitely outweigh
her defects. Her genius is profound, unsullied, and without a flaw. The imperfections of her
manner are mere superficial blot which a little labour might remove. Were the blemishes of
her style tenfold more numerous than they are, we should still revere this poetess as one of
the noblest of her sex; for her works have impressed us with the conviction, that powers such
as she possesses are not merely the gifts or accomplishments of a highly intellectual woman;
but that they are closely intertwined with all that is purest and loveliest in goodness and
in truth.

It is plain that Miss Barrett would always write well if she wrote simply from her own heart,
and without thinking of the compositions of any other author--at least let her think of them
only in so far as she is sure that they embody great thoughts in pure and appropriate language,
and in forms of construction which will endure the most rigid scrutiny of common sense and
unperverted taste. If she will but wash her hands completely of Æschylus and Milton, and all
other poets, either great, or whom she takes for such, and come before the public in the graces
of her own feminine sensibilities, and in the strength of her own profound perceptions, her
sway over human hearts will be more irresistible than ever, and she will have nothing to fear
from a comparison with the most gifted and illustrious of her sex.

FOOTNOTES:

[31] London. Moxon. 1844.

[32] "With accents undefiled;" this is surely a very strange and unaccountable interpolation.
How was it possible, or conceivable, that any accents could be defiled, which conveyed the
holiest and most pathetic injunction that ever came from the lips of a dying mother?

UP STREAM; OR, STEAM-BOAT REMINISCENCES.

I had come to New Orleans to be married, and the knot once tied, there was little inducement
for my wife, myself, or any of our party, to remain in that city. Indeed, had we been disposed
to linger, an account that was given us of the most unwelcome of all visitors, the yellow fever,
having knocked at the doors of several houses in the Marigny suburb, would have been sufficient
to drive us away. For my part, I was anxious to find myself in my now comfortable home, and
to show my new acquisition--namely, my wife--to my friends above Bâton Rouge, well assured
that the opinion of all would be in favour of the choice I had made. By some eccentric working
of that curious machinery called the mind, I was more thoughtful than a man is usually supposed
to be upon his wedding-day; and I received the congratulations of the guests, went through
the obligato breakfast, and the preparations for departure, in a very automatical manner. I
took scarcely more note of the nine shots that were fired as we went on board the steamer,
of the hurrahs shouted after us from the quay by a few dozen sailors, or the waving of the
star-spangled banners that fluttered over the poop and forecastle--of all the honour and glory,
in short, attending our departure. I was busy drawing a comparison between my first and this,
my last, voyage to the Red River.

It was just nine years and two months since I had first come into possession of my "freehold
of these United States," as the papers specified it. Five thousand dollars had procured me
the honour of becoming a Louisianian planter; upon the occurrence of which event, I was greeted
by my friends and acquaintances as the luckiest of men. There were two thousand acres, "with
due allowance for fences and roads," according to the usual formula; and the wood alone, if
I might believe what was told me, was well worth twenty thousand dollars. For the preceding
six months, the whole of the western press had been praising the Red River territory to the
very skies; it was an incomparable sugar and cotton ground, full sixteen feet deep of river
slime--Egypt was a sandy desert compared to it--and as to the climate, the zephyrs that disported
themselves there were only to be paralleled in Eldorado and Arcadia. I, like a ninny as I was,
although fully aware of the puffing propensities of our newspaper editors, especially when
their tongues, or rather pens, have been oiled by a few handfuls of dollars, fell into the
trap, and purchased land in the fever-hole in question, where I was assured that a habitable
house and two negro huts were already built and awaiting me. The improvements alone, the land-speculator
was ready to take his oath, were worth every cent of two thousand dollars. In short, I concluded
my blind bargain, and in the month of June, prepared to start to visit my estate. I was at
New Orleans, which city was just then held fast in the gripe of its annual scourge and visitor,
the yellow fever. I was in a manner left alone; all my friends had gone up or down stream,
or across the Pont Chartrain. There was nothing to be seen in the whole place but meagre hollow-eyed
negresses, shirtless and masterless, running about the streets, howling like jackals, or crawling
in and out of the open doors of the houses. In the upper suburb things were at the worst; there,
whole streets were deserted, the houses empty, the doors and windows knocked in; while the
foul fever-laden breeze came sighing over from Vera Cruz, and nothing was to be heard but the
melancholy rattle of the corpse-carts as they proceeded slowly through the streets with their
load of coffins. It was high time to be off, when the yellow fever, the deadly vomito, had
thus made its triumphant entry, and was ruling and ravaging like some mighty man of war in
a stormed fortress.

I had four negroes with me, including old Sybille, who was at that time full sixty-five years
of age; Cæsar, Tiberius, and Vitellius, were the three others. We are fond of giving our horses
and negroes these high sounding appellations, as a sort of warning, I am inclined to think,
to those amongst us who sit in high places; for even in our young republic there is no lack
of would-be Cæsars.

The steamers had left off running below Bâton Rouge, so I resolved to leave my gig at New Orleans,
procuring in its stead a sort of dearborn or railed cart, in which I packed the whole of my
traps, consisting of a medley of blankets and axes, barrows and ploughshares, cotton shirts
and cooking utensils. Upon the top of all this I perched myself; and those who had known me
only three or four months previously as the gay and fashionable Mr Howard, one of the leaders
of the ton, the deviser and proposer of fêtes, balls, and gaieties of all kinds, might well
have laughed, could they have seen me half buried amongst pots and pans, bottles and bundles,
spades and mattocks, and suchlike useful but homely instruments. There was nobody there to
laugh, however, or to cry either. Tears were then scarce articles in New Orleans; for people
had got accustomed to death, and their feelings were more or less blunted. But even had the
yellow fever not been there, I doubt if any one would have laughed at me; there is too much
sound sense amongst us. Our town beauties--ay, the most fashionable and elegant of them--think
nothing of installing themselves, with their newly wedded husbands, in the aforesaid dearborns,
and moving off to the far west, leaving behind them all the comforts and luxuries among which
they have been brought up. Whoever travels in our backwoods, will often come across scenes
and interiors such as the boldest romance writer would never dare to invent. Newly married
couples, whose childhood and early youth have been spent in the enjoyment of all the superfluities
of civilization, will buy a piece of good land far in the depths of forests and prairies, and
found a new existence for themselves and their children. One meets with their dwellings in
abundance--log-houses, consisting for the most part of one room and a small kitchen: on the
walls of the former the horses' saddles and harness, and the husband's working clothes, manufactured
often by the delicate hands of his lady; in one corner, a harp or a piano; on the table, perhaps,
a few numbers of the North American or Southern reviews, and some Washington or New York papers.
A strange mixture of wild and civilized life. It is thus that our Johnsons, our Livingstons,
and Ranselaers, and hundreds, ay, thousands of families, our Jeffersons and Washingtons, commenced;
and truly it is to be hoped, that the rising generation will not despise the custom of their
forefathers, or reject this healthy means of renovating the blood and vigour of the community.

To return to my own proceedings. I got upon my dearborn, in order to leave as soon as possible
the pestilential atmosphere of New Orleans; and I had just established myself amongst my goods
and chattels, when Cæsar came running up in great exultation, with a new cloak which he had
been so lucky as to find lying before the door of a deserted house in the suburb. I took hold
of the infected garment with a pair of tongs, and pitched it as far as I was able from the
cart, to the great dismay of Cæsar, who could not understand why I should throw away a thing
which he assured me was well worth twenty dollars. We set off, and soon got out of the town.
Not a living creature was to be seen as far as the eye could reach along the straight road.
On the right hand side, the suburb of the Annunciation was enclosed in wooden palisades, upon
which enormous bills were posted, containing proclamations by the mayor of the town, and headed
with the word "Infected," in letters that could be read half a mile off. These proclamations,
however, were unnecessary. New Orleans looked more like a churchyard than a city; and we did
not meet five persons during the whole of our drive along the new canal road.

At the first plantation at which we halted, in order to give the horses a feed, gates and doors
were all shut in our faces, and the hospitable owner of the house warned us to be off. As this
warning was conveyed in the shape of a couple of rifle-barrels protruded through the jalousies,
we did not think it advisable to neglect it. The reception was cheerless enough; but we came
from New Orleans, and could expect no better one. Cæsar, however, dauntless as his celebrated
namesake, jumped over a paling, and plucked an armful of Indian corn ears, which he gave to
the horses; an earthen pan served to fetch them water from the Mississippi, and after a short
pause we resumed our journey. Five times, I remember, we halted, and were received in the same
humane and hospitable manner, until at last we reached the plantation of my friend Bankes.
We had come fifty miles under a burning sun, and had passed more than fifty plantations, each
with its commodious and elegant villa built upon it; but we had not yet seen a human face.
Here, however, I hoped to find shelter and refreshment; but in that hope I was doomed to be
disappointed.

"From New Orleans?" enquired the voice of my friend through the jalousies of his verandah.

"To be sure," answered I.

"Then begone, friend, and be d----d to you!" was the affectionate reply of the worthy Mr Bankes,
who was, nevertheless, kind enough to cause a huge ham and accessories, together with half
a dozen well-filled bottles, to be placed outside the door--a sort of mute intimation that
he was happy to see us, so long as we did not cross his threshold. I had a hearty laugh at
this half-and-half hospitality, eat and drank, wrapped myself in a blanket, and slept, with
the blue vault for a covering, as well or better than the president.

In the morning, before starting, I shouted out a "Thank ye! and be d----d to you!" by way of
remerciment; and then we resumed our march.

At last, upon the third evening, we managed to get our heads under a roof at the town of Bâton
Rouge, in the house of an old French soldier, who laughed at the yellow fever as he had formerly
done at the Cossacks and Mamelukes; and the following morning we started for the Red River,
in the steamboat Clayborne. By nightfall we reached my domain.

Santa Virgen! exclaims the Spaniard in his extremity of grief and perplexity: what I exclaimed,
I am sure I do not remember; but I know that my hair stood on end, when I beheld, for the first
time, the so-called improvements on my new property. The habitable and comfortable house was
a species of pigsty, built out of the rough branches of trees, without doors, windows, or roof.
There was I to dwell, and that in a season when the thermometer was ranging between ninety-five
and a hundred degrees. The very badness of things, however, stimulated us to exertion; we set
to work, and in two days had built a couple of very decent huts, the only inconvenience of
which was, that when it rained hard, we were obliged to take refuge under a neighbouring cotton-tree.
Fortunately, out of the two thousand acres, there really were fifty in a state of cultivation,
and that helped us. I planted and kept house as well as I could: in the daytime I ploughed
and sowed; and in the evening I mended the harness and the holes in my inexpressibles. With
society I was little troubled, seeing that my nearest neighbour lived five-and-twenty miles
off. The first summer passed in this manner; the second was a little better; and the third
better still--until at last the way of life became endurable. There is nothing in the world
impracticable; and Napoleon never spoke a truer word than when he said, "Impossible!--C'est
le mot d'un fou!"

And then a hunting-party in the savannahs of Louisiana or Arkansas!

There is a something in those endless and gigantic wildernesses which seems to elevate the
soul, and to give to it, as well as to the body, an increase of strength and energy. There
reign, in countless multitudes, the wild horse and the bison; the wolf, the bear, and the snake;
and, above all, the trapper, surpassing the very beasts of the desert in wildness--not the
old trapper described by Cooper, who never saw a trapper in his life, but the real trapper,
whose adventures and mode of existence would furnish the richest materials for scores of romances.

Our American civilization has engendered certain corrupt off-shoots, of which the civilization
of other countries knows nothing, and which could only spring up in a land where liberty is
found in its greatest development. These trappers are for the most part outcasts, criminals
who have fled from the chastisement of the law, or else unruly spirits to whom even the rational
degree of freedom enjoyed in the United States has appeared cramping and insufficient. It is
perhaps fortunate for the States, that they possess the sort of fag-end to their territory
comprised between the Mississippi and the Rocky Mountains; for much mischief might be caused
by these violent and restless men, were they compelled to remain in the bosom of social life.
If, for example, la belle France had had such a fag-end or outlet during the various crises
that she has passed through in the course of the last fifty years, how many of her great warriors
and equally great tyrants might have lived and died trappers! And truly, neither Europe nor
mankind in general would have been much the worse off, if those instruments of the greatest
despotism that ever disguised itself under the mask of freedom--the Massenas, and Murats, and
Davousts, and scores more of suchlike laced and decorated gentry--had never been heard of.

One finds these trappers or hunters in all the districts extending from the sources of the
Columbia and Missouri, to those of the Arkansas and Red Rivers, and on the tributary streams
of the Mississippi which run eastward from the Rocky Mountains. Their whole time is passed
in the pursuit and destruction of the innumerable wild animals, which for hundreds and thousands
of years have bred and multiplied in those remote steppes and plains. They slay the buffalo
for the sake of his hump, and of the hide, out of which they make their clothing; the bear
to have his skin for a bed; the wolf for their amusement; and the beaver for his fur. In exchange
for the spoils of these animals they get lead and powder, flannel shirts and jackets, string
for their nets, and whisky to keep out the cold. They traverse those endless wastes in bodies
several hundreds strong, and have often desperate and bloody fights with the Indians. For the
most part, however, they form themselves into parties of eight or ten men, a sort of wild guerillas.
These must rather be called hunters than trappers; the genuine trapper limiting himself to
the society of one sworn friend, with whom he remains out for at least a year, frequently longer;
for it takes a considerable time to become acquainted with the haunts of the beaver. If one
of the two comrades dies, the other remains in possession of the whole of their booty. The
mode of life that is at first adopted from necessity, or through fear of the laws, is after
a time adhered to from choice; and few of these men would exchange their wild, lawless, unlimited
freedom, for the most advantageous position that could be offered them in a civilized country.
They live the whole year through in the steppes, savannahs, prairies, and forests of the Arkansas,
Missouri, and Oregon territories--districts which comprise enormous deserts of sand and rock,
and, at the same time, the most luxuriant and beautiful plains, teeming with verdure and vegetation.
Snow and frost, heat and cold, rain and storm, and hardships of all kinds, render the limbs
of the trapper as hard, and his skin as thick, as those of the buffalo that he hunts; the constant
necessity in which he finds himself of trusting entirely to his bodily strength and energy,
creates a self-confidence that no peril can shake--a quickness of sight, thought, and action,
of which man in a civilized state can form no conceptions. His hardships are often terrible;
and I have seen trappers who had endured sufferings, compared to which the fabled adventures
of Robinson Crusoe are mere child's play, and whose skin had converted itself into a sort of
leather, impervious to every thing except lead and steel. In a moral point of view, these men
may be considered a psychological curiosity: in the wild state of nature in which they live,
their mental faculties frequently develop themselves in a most extraordinary manner; and in
the conversation of some of them may be found proofs of a sagacity and largeness of views,
of which the greatest philosophers of ancient or modern times would have no cause to be ashamed.

The daily and hourly dangers incurred by these trappers must, one would think, occasionally
cause them to turn their thoughts to a Supreme Being; but such is not the case. Their rifle
is their god--their knife their patron saint--their strong right hand their only trust. The
trapper shuns his fellow-men; and the glance with which he measures the stranger whom he encounters
on his path, is oftener that of a murderer than a friend: the love of gain is as strong with
him as it is found to be in a civilized state of society, and the meeting of two trappers is
generally the signal for the death of one of them. He hates his white competitor for the much-prized
beaver skins far more than he does his Indian one: the latter he shoots down as coolly as if
he were a wolf or a bear; but when he drives his knife into the breast of the former, it is
with as much devilish joy as if he felt he were ridding mankind of as great an evil-doer as
himself. The nourishment of the trapper, consisting for years together of buffalo's flesh--the
strongest food that a man can eat--and taken without bread or any other accompaniment, doubtless
contributes to render him wild and inhuman, and to assimilate him in a certain degree to the
savage animals by which he is surrounded.

During an excursion that I made with some companions towards the upper part of the Red River,
we met with several of these trappers; amongst others, with one weather-beaten old fellow,
whose face and bare neck were tanned by sun and exposure to the colour of tortoise-shell. We
hunted two days in his company, without noticing any thing remarkable about the man; he cooked
our meals, which consisted usually of a haunch of venison or a buffalo's hump, instructed us
where to find game, and was aware of the approach of the latter even sooner than his huge wolf-dog,
which never left his side. It was only on the morning of the third day, that we discovered
something calculated to diminish our confidence in our new comrade. This was a number of lines
and crosses upon the butt of his rifle, which gave us a new and not very favourable insight
into the man's character. These lines and crosses came after certain words rudely scratched
with a knife-point, and formed a sort of list, of which the following is a copy:--

Buffaloes--no number given, they being probably too numerous.

Bears, nineteen--the number being indicated by nineteen strait strokes.

Wolves, thirteen--marked by oblique strokes.

Red underloppers, four--marked by four crosses.

White underloppers, two--noted by two stars.

Whilst we were examining this curious calendar, and puzzling ourselves to make out the meaning
of the word "underloppers," I observed a grim smile stealing over the features of the old trapper.
He said nothing, however; drew the buffalo's hump he was cooking from under the hot embers,
took it out of the piece of hide in which it was wrapped, and placed it before us. It was a
meal that a king might have envied, and the mere smell of it made us forget the rifle butt.
We had scarcely fallen to, when the old man laid hold of his gun.

"Look ye," said he, with a strange grin. "It's my pocket-book. D'ye think it a sin to kill
one of them red or white underloppers?"

"Whom do you mean?" asked we.

The man smiled again and rose to depart; his look, however, was alone enough to enlighten us
as to who the two-legged interlopers were whom he had first shot, and then noted on his rifle-butt
with as much cool indifference as if they had been wild turkeys instead of human beings. In
a region to which the vengeful arm of the law does not reach, we did not feel ourselves called
upon or entitled to set ourselves up as judges, and we let the man go.

These trappers occasionally, and at long intervals, return for a few days or weeks to the haunts
of civilization; and this occurs when they have collected a sufficient quantity of beaver skins.
They then fell a hollow tree that stands on the shore of some navigable stream, make it water-tight,
launch it, load it with their merchandise and their few necessaries, and float and row for
thousands of miles down the Missouri, Arkansas, or Red River, to St Louis, Natchitoches, or
Alexandria. They may be seen roaming and staring about the streets of these towns, clad in
their coats of skins, and astonishing strangers by their wild and primitive appearance.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was sitting on a sofa in a corner of the ladies' cabin, with Louise by my side, and talking
over with her these and other recollections of more or less interest. The tea hour was long
past, and the cabins were lighted up. Suddenly we were interrupted in our conversation by a
loud noise overhead.

"A nigger killed!" sang out somebody upon deck.

"A nigger killed!" repeated two, ten, twenty, and at length a hundred voices; and thereupon
there was a running and trampling, and hurrying and scurrying, an agitation in our big floating
inn as if the boilers were on the brink of bursting, and giving us a passage into eternity
in the midst of their scalding contents. Louise started up, and dragging me with her, hurried
breathless through the two saloons, to the stairs leading upon deck.

"Who is killed? Where is the poor negro?"

The answer I got was a horse-laugh from a score of backwoodsmen.

"Much noise about nothing, dear Louise."

And we were on the point of descending the stairs again, when we were detained, and our attention
riveted, by the picturesque appearance of the deck--I should rather say of the persons grouped
upon it--seen in the red, flickering, and uncertain light of sundry lamps, lanterns, and torches.
Truly, the night-piece was not bad. In the centre of the steamer's deck, at an equal distance
from stem and stern, stood a knot of fellows of such varied and characteristic appearance as
might be sought for in vain in any other country than ours. It seemed as if all the western
states and territories had sent their representatives to our steamer. Suckers from Illinois,
and Badgers from the lead-mines of Missouri--Wolverines from Michigan, and Buckeyes from Ohio--Redhorses
from old Kentuck, and Hunters from Oregon, stood mingled before us, clad in all sorts of fantastical
and outlandish attire. One had a hunting-shirt of blue and white striped calico, which made
its wearer's broad back and huge shoulders resemble a walking feather-bed; another was remarkable
for a brilliant straw-hat--a New Orleans purchase, that looked about as well on his bronzed
physiognomy as a Chinese roof would do on a pigsty. Wiñebago wampum belts and Cherokee mocassins,
jerkins of tanned and untanned deer-hide, New York frock-coats, and red and blue jackets, composed
some of the numerous costumes, of which the mixture and contrast were in the highest degree
picturesque.

In the middle of this group stood a personage of a very different stamp--a most interesting
specimen of the genus Yankee, contrasting in a striking manner with the rough-hewn sons of
Anuk who surrounded him. He was a man of some thirty years of age, as dry and tough as leather,
of grave and pedantic mien, the skin of his forehead twisted into innumerable small wrinkles,
his lips pressed firmly together, his bright reddish-grey eyes apparently fixed, but, in reality,
perpetually shifting their restless glances from the men by whom he was surrounded, to some
chests that lay upon the deck before him, and again from the chests to the men; his whole lean,
bony, angular figure in a position that made it difficult to conjecture whether he was going
to pray, or to sing, or to preach a sermon. In one hand he held a roll of pigtail tobacco,
in the other some bright-coloured ribands, which he had taken from an open chest containing
the manifold articles constituting the usual stock in trade of a pedlar. Beside this chest
were two others, and beside those lay a negro, howling frightfully, and rubbing alternately
his right shoulder and his left foot; but nevertheless, according to all appearance, by no
means in danger of taking his departure for the other world. As the Yankee pedlar raised his
hand and signed to the vociferous blackamoor to be silent, the face of the former gradually
assumed that droll, cunning, and yet earnest expression which betrays those double distilled
Hebrews, when they are planning to get possession, in a quasi-legal manner, of the dollars
of their fellow-citizens; in a word, when they are manoeuvering to exchange their worthless
northern wares for the sterling coin of the south. Presently his arms began to swing about
like those of a telegraph; he threw a long and loving glance at the two unopened chests, which
had apparently slipped down from the top of a quantity of merchandise piled upon deck, and
fallen on the foot and shoulder of the negro; then measuring the latter with a look of reproach,
he suddenly opened his compressed lips, from which a sharp, high-toned, schoolmasterlike voice
issued.

"Sambo, Sambo! What have you done? Sambo, Sambo!" he repeated, while his voice became more
solemn, and he raised his hands and eyes as if appealing to heaven for justice. "Sambo, you
onlucky nigger, what have you been a doin'?"

"A 'sarve,' a wonderful 'sarve!'" screamed the man, pointing to the chests with an appearance
of the profoundest grief.

"Heaven forgive you, Sambo! but you have endangered, perhaps sp'iled, a 'sarve,' compared to
which all the 'intments and balms of Mecca, Medina, and Balsora--of Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli,
or whatever other places they may come from, air actilly no better than cart-grease. Ah, Sambo!
if you were twenty times a nigger, and could be brought twenty times on the auction table,
you wouldn't fetch enough money to pay for the harm you have done!"

"Boe! Boe!" howled the negro by way of parenthesis.

"Ah, Boe! Boe!" screamed the Yankee, "you may well say Boe, Boe! And you ain't the only one
as may say it, that's sartain. There be ladies and gentlemen here, as respectable ladies and
gentlemen as can be found any where--ay, even to Boston, the cradle of our independence--and
they might say Boe! Boe! if they knew all. In them two chests are a hundred tin boxes and glass
phials; and if only twenty of them are damaged, there is more injury done than your hide could
pay for, if it were twenty times as thick and twenty times as vallyable as it is. Your whole
carcass ain't worth one of the boxes of that precious 'intment. Ah, Sambo!"

"Boe! Boe!" howled Sambo in reply.

"What's the palaver about?" growled some of the Badgers and Buckeyes; "open the chests, and
you'll see what harm's done."

"D'ye ye hear, Sambo?" cried the Yankee with the same immovable countenance; "you're to hold
yer tongue, the gentlemen say; they're tired of yer noise, and no wonder. What's the use of
boohooin' away at that rate? Helps you nothin'; you desarve what you've got. I'll thank you
for your long knife, Mister. That'll do. That opens it, cuts in like rael steel; better it
should be into hard word than soft flesh. There they are, then, and not broken; onhurt, without
a spot or a crack. Sing praises to the Lord! psalms and hymns of rejoicin'--not a phial broke,
nor a box smashed! Praised be the Lord! I say ag'in. Since they are safe, it don't matter if
twenty shoulder-blades and ankle-bones are put out. Verily the mercy of Heaven shall be made
manifest, and that by the means of a feeble vessel, Jared Bundle by name. Down with ye, Sambo--down
with ye, I say!--Your shoulder and your dingy hide shall be made whole, and your black bones
shall be comforted!"

Not a muscle of the Yankee's face moved; he preserved the grave and solemn appearance of a
man to whom a sacred trust has been confided, and who is fully penetrated with the importance
of his mission. Once or twice, however, I observed him give a keen but almost imperceptible
glance around him, as if to observe the effect of his eloquence upon his auditors.

"Down with you, Sambo!" he repeated to the negro, who had got himself into a sort of sitting
posture upon the deck.

"Down, down!" cried the men of Kentucky.

"Down!" those of Missouri and Ohio.

"Be quick about it!" shouted an Illinois sucker.

"Let's see the Yankee's wonderful cure!" exclaimed a hunter from Oregon.

And amidst shouts and exclamations and laughter, poor Sambo was seized by half a dozen of their
bear's fists, and stretched out upon a heap of coffee-bags like a pig that's going to be killed.

"Boe! Boe!" clamoured the negro at the top of his voice.

"Boohoo as much as you like," cried the Yankee in a shrill tone, that was heard above all the
howlings of the unlucky Sambo. "You'll sing to another tune when you see and understand and
feel what a Conne'ticut man can do. You say Boe, Boe! like a poor benighted crittur as you
are, but what do you say to that?" cried the pedlar in a triumphant voice, as he held close
to the negro's nose a piece of linen rag on which he had smeared a green greasy substance bearing
a strong resemblance to paste-blacking in a state of decomposition. Then, taking up the box
which contained this precious compound, he put it in close proximity to the obtuse snout of
the blackamoor, who made a grimace as if his olfactories were but moderately regaled by the
odour emanating from the miraculous ointment.

"What d'ye think of that, Sambo? Is that the stuff or not? Will that do, think ye? Well, you
shall soon see. Gentlemen!" he continued, with all the gravity of a legitimate M.D. "Gentlemen!
the arms and legs of this poor Sambo must be stretched as much as possible, in order that the
sarve may take its full effect. Will you be good enough to assist me?"

Upon the word, the backwoodsmen caught hold of the negro's limbs, and began pulling and tugging
at them till the poor devil roared as if they had been impaling him.

"Boohoo away!" cried the Yankee. "It's all for your good. If your shoulder is put out, the
stretchin' will put it in ag'in."

The negro continued his lamentations, as well he might, when every one of his joints was cracking
under the force applied.

"All no use your callin' out!" screamed the pedlar, as he stuck the salved rag upon the ebony
hide of the patient. "Better hold yer tongue. Ain't you lucky to have met with me at a time
when all the doctors in the world--the Browns, and Hossacks, and Sillimans--could not have
done you a cent's worth of good? All their drugs would have had no more effect than a ladleful
of pea-soup. You ought to be rejoicin' in yer luck, instead of screamin' like a wounded catamount.
Keep still, will you? There, that'll do. Many thanks, gentlemen; I thank you in the name of
this senseless crittur. That's enough. No cause for complaint, man!" continued he, as he stuck
a second plaster on the negro's foot. "All safe enough when Jared Bundle is there with his
Palmyra sarve. You be the first as was ever know'd to scream after havin' one smell of that
precious 'intment. And I tell you what it is, my man, if both your black legs had been broken
clean off, and were swimmin' down the Mississippi half rotten--ay, or if they had just come
out of the jaws of an alligator, and you were to stick 'em on, and plaster them up with this
'intment, you may take my word, Jared Bundle's word, that they'd grow to your body again--the
flesh would become your flesh, and the bone your bone, as sure as I am now here." And he looked
round at his auditors with a world of confidence and veracity depicted upon his countenance.

