P.S.--A youthful shootist bought the Poppyland book because he thought that it would tell him
all about where to go popping. Also a bashful suitor was misled by the title, hoping that in
Poppy Land he would learn how to "Pop--the question." The Learned Author has not said one word
about the "weasels that go pop," which, of course, are natives of Poppy Land.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE RIFT WITHIN THE LUTE."

  It surely sounds a pretty phrase,
    Some pöesy for woe it wins,
  Commemorating roundelays
    And troubadours and mandolins:
  We seem to view some minstrel-boy
    Beside his shattered music mute,
  The shattered string, the ruined joy--
    The Rift within the Lute.

  How swift the slip from tune to twang!
    Sweets bitter grow, as aye they did;
  For e'en the Roman poet sang
    "Surgit amari aliquid."
  Our pigmy worries turn us grey;
    And sorrows fierce are less acute;
  Our hearts are riddled every day
    With Rifts within the Lute.

  You envy FORTUNATUS--rich--
    A charming bride--subservient friends.
  To rival him were something which
    The dream of Avarice transcends.
  That charming bride a mother owns
    Whom FORTUNATUS brands a brute:
  She mars his life's entrancing tones--
    His Rift within the Lute!

  Then, PEREGRINE--he journeys far;
    Unshackled, he by toil's routine:
  By turns he quaffs a samovar
    Or sherbet, as he shifts his scene.
  "Strong as a horse!"--ah! there's the string
    That snaps asunder--"to recruit."
  He wanders, manufacturing
    A Rift within his Lute.

  And DULCINEA! What a life!
    Adoring crowds, adornments rare
  And many fain to call her wife,
    And sue her smiles in Belgrave Square.
  And yet her Fetch-and-carry swears
    He heard her, while he pressed his suit,
  Sigh, "Bored to desperation!"--there's
    A Rift within that Lute.

  What need more trivial ills to quote,
    The freshly-furnished house that shines,
  The coxcomb's fashionable coat,
    Both brushed and polished "to the nines,"
  Both yielding to some fatal flaw;
    A crack; a fiend who plays the flute;
  Both, both examples of the law
    Of Rift within the Lute.

  Whate'er the dulcet instrument
    We favour, still the lilt will stop;
  And with a gorgeous chalice blent
    Oft lurks the tiny poisoned drop.
  I'm not so spry myself to-night;
    I'll try a dose of arrowroot.
  You'll own that Indigestion's quite
    A Rift in any Lute!

       *       *       *       *       *

"WALKER ART GALLERY."--Show commences this week at Liverpool. The WALKER was a Genius. But
is this show all "Walker," or the genuine article? Has Mr. J.L. TOOLE, of Walker, London, anything
to do with it? No doubt it's quite "'O.K.' WALKER, Liverpool."

       *       *       *       *       *

POLITICAL PRIZE RING RIDDLE.--Why was the win of the Gladstonian Party at Newcastle like the
triumph of a single-fisted pugilist over his two-handed opponent? Because the victory was achieved
with one "MORLEY."