We have mentioned the two companions who accompanied Major Denham to Kouka, and were left there
while he made his campaign with the Sultan's army. But Lieutenant, afterwards Captain, Hugh
Clapperton is far too delightful and interesting a person to be dismissed with so little notice.
Before he joined Major Denham he had managed to get into his thirty-four years adventures enough
to fill a volume, and after returning with the Major to England and contributing his part to
the story of the expedition, we find him starting again, six months later, with Captain Pearce
and Dr. Morrison as his companions, from Badagry, on the Bight of Benin, on the West Coast
of Africa. But the deadly climate soon diminished the little party. It was only three weeks
before Clapperton had to read the burial service over the graves of his two comrades, and found
himself left to carry on their work, with his young servant, Richard Lauder, as his only companion.

But Clapperton was not the man to turn back from any task to which he had set his hand, and
in Lauder he had a colleague ready to follow him through thick and thin. The two were as unlike
in appearance as they could well be: Clapperton was six feet high and broad in proportion,
a strong, genial, simple-hearted sailor, with a love of fun which must have helped him through
many a dark day; and Lauder was small and slim, less robust, and probably less light-hearted
than his master, but with a passion for change and adventure which had drawn him from his Cornish
home, against the advice of friends and kindred, to volunteer for the expedition. And in Captain
Clapperton he found a hero to match with any of those whose stories had delighted his boyhood.
It is from him that we have the history of their journey together, and every page is full of
loving admiration for the master whose courage no danger or suffering could daunt, and who
was yet full of thought and consideration for his companion, carrying him on his back across
the rivers when he was too weak to ford them on foot, and writing continually to cheer him
when obliged to leave him behind to rest and recover. There are records of hair-breadth escapes,
of suffering and homesickness and parting, as in most stories of African travel, but this tale
has to do with laughter instead of tears.

The travellers halted for some time at a place called Wow-Wow, where the King, Mohammed, was
friendly to them. There lived there a certain widow named Lyuma, or 'Honey,' very rich, and,
according to Wow-Wow taste very handsome, though her portly figure, her hair dyed blue, and
hands stained red and yellow, and the crimson teeth which gave the finishing touch, might not
have been admired in England.

This great lady soon made friendly overtures to the two Englishmen, calling every day at the
hut they occupied, arrayed in gorgeous garments of striped silk, and glistening with beads
and ornaments. Great was the amusement of the jovial Captain when he discovered that the African
beauty was greatly taken with Lauder, and most unmercifully did he chaff them both as he sat,
puffing at his pipe, at the hut door, much to the confusion of the shy young Cornishman and
the delight of the lady, Lyuma, who took all his remarks seriously. Poor Lauder at last got
so alarmed that he called upon her, and solemnly informed her that he could not make up his
mind to an African wife.

The beautiful Lyuma, however, was not at all disconcerted, but at once turned her attentions
from Richard to his master, whom she tried to dazzle by the magnificence of her jewels and
the number of her slaves. The Captain, fairly punished for his teasing, decided to pay a short
visit to the neighbouring King of Boussa, whom he wished to conciliate, and left Lauder at
Wow-Wow in charge of his luggage. But no sooner did Lyuma hear of his departure than she set
off in pursuit, splendidly arrayed in red, with scarlet morocco leather boots, and attended
by a body of slaves, who cheered the way by discordant music. She looked in before starting
to bid good-bye to Lauder, who may well have laughed at this turning of the tables upon his master.

But the affair soon took a more serious turn, for King Mohammed, summoning Lauder to his presence,
sternly informed him that his master and the lady Lyuma were plotting rebellion, and that he
himself and the Captain's luggage would be detained at the King's pleasure. Richard found remonstrances
and explanations of no avail; and, feeling that Clapperton must be warned of the King's suspicions,
he managed to escape from his guards and hastened with all speed to Boussa. Here he was met
by the news that the Captain had already started on his return journey by another route, still
followed by the admiring Lyuma. The King and Queen of Boussa received Lauder with the greatest
kindness; indeed, the Queen was so much touched by his pleasant manners and weak look (for
he had but just recovered from fever), that she asked anxiously whether his mother were living,
and sighed when he answered 'No,' because he had no one to watch and wait for him in far-away
England. And when the weary young Englishman, in spite of desperate efforts to be polite, dropped
asleep in the royal presence, the sovereigns, with courtesy which would have done honour to
a more civilised Court, quietly withdrew, sending him a message that he must stay long with
them and rest well.

But Lauder was anxious to rejoin his master, and, hurrying back to Wow-Wow, reached it just
as Clapperton, who had outdistanced his fair pursuer, arrived there himself. The gallant Captain,
hearing of his loss of favour, took the bull by the horns and went at once to the King. He
quite disarmed that angry monarch by his frank greeting and assurances that he had not seen
such a handsome face since his departure as that of the sovereign of Wow-Wow; but Mohammed,
to make all sure, refused to allow the Captain to proceed on his travels until Lyuma was safely
under supervision. So that the lady, when she arrived, found herself obliged to submit to the
royal authority and stay quietly at home, while the Captain and Lauder, by no means sorry to
escape, bade farewell to Mohammed, and left the poor beauty to find a husband among the gentlemen
of Wow-Wow.

We might end the story there, with a laugh over poor Lyuma's disappointment, for the rest of
the tale that Lauder has to tell is sad.

For weeks the two explorers were delayed by tribal wars, and the long inaction in the deadly
climate broke down even Clapperton's hopeful spirit. When they sat together in the evenings
at the door of their hut, and Lauder sang the old Scottish songs that had been familiar to
his master as a child, the foreboding seems to have fallen upon the Captain that he would never
tread his native hills again. He fell ill of the sickness that had claimed so many victims,
and gave his papers and instructions, with business-like calmness, to his 'dear boy,' as he
called the young servant, who tended him with the devotion of a son. The man who had before
bidden Lauder never to forget his prayers knew where to turn for help when his own splendid
strength and energy could avail him no more. But sorely desolate Richard Lauder must have felt,
when he laid the British flag over the body of him who had been master and comrade in one,
and, with broken voice, read the Burial Service, with its words of faith and hope, over the
lonely grave.

He himself returned safely to England, and has left us the portrait of the man he served, the
portrait of a brave, kindly Christian gentleman, one of the most gallant of the army of pioneers
who have heard the 'everlasting whisper' which calls men into unknown lands.

A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.

True Tales of the Year 1806.

VII.--CHARLES JAMES FOX.

On the 10th of September, 1806, died Charles James Fox, a man of such talents that perhaps
his age did not produce his equal. He was born in 1749, and was the second son of Lord Holland,
who spoilt his child by letting him have his own way in everything. At nine years of age, Charles
was in the habit of reading his father's dispatches, Lord Holland being then a Secretary of
State; and one day Charles crumpled up the dispatch, saying calmly, 'Too feeble!' and threw
the paper into the fire. Lord Holland, far from rebuking him, merely re-wrote the dispatch.

Perhaps no child ever received so bad an education from his father as did Charles James Fox.
The result was that Charles grew up into a most confirmed gamester, losing immense sums at
cards and on the turf.

He was always extreme in all he undertook. As a young man at college, he walked fifty-six miles
in one day for a wager, and, when in Ireland, swam twice round the Devil's Punch-bowl, at Killarney.
In dress, too, he was always noticeable--at first as a great dandy and a member of the famous
'Maccaroni' clique, who wore red-heeled shoes, carried muffs, and seemed only to live to make
themselves talked about; and later on--in the days when he sympathised with the Republican
movement in France--Fox affected great simplicity in dress, and at last became such a sloven
that he did not even wear clean shirts.

But these were but the foibles of genius, for, notwithstanding all his fast life and many vices,
Fox was hardly surpassed as a scholar, an orator, and a linguist; and, as a politician, Pitt
himself--a life-long rival--frankly admitted that 'Fox was a magician, who laid a spell upon
his hearers as long as the words issued from his lips.'

Once, in 1793, Burke was passionately addressing the House of Commons on the necessity of placing
foreigners, who were then flocking into our country from France, under strict police supervision.
It was the time of the French Revolution, and Fox, though regretting the crimes then committed,
was yet in favour of the Republican Government for that country, as offering greater freedom,
and was very firm against declaring war with France.

Burke, however, went on to declare that these foreigners would soon infect Great Britain with
their revolutionary ideas, and (hoping to produce a startling effect) he finally drew a dagger
from his bosom, and flung it on the floor of the House, saying: 'That is what you are to expect
from an alliance with France!'

For a moment the House was startled, but Fox, with a readiness that never failed him, turned
towards his opponent with a mocking smile, and, pointing to the dagger, said jestingly: 'The
Honourable Member has given us the knife; will he kindly favour us with the fork?'

The House burst into peals of laughter, and the incident, which Burke meant to be so solemn,
ended in making him a laughing-stock.

Perhaps the last years of Fox were his best years; he settled down and married, living very
happily with his wife, and taking great delight in gardening.

On the death of Pitt, Fox was chosen a member of the 'Ministry of all the Talents,' but he
did not survive his great rival by many months. He was a dying man when he made his last supreme
effort to address the House on the suppression of the Slave Trade.

'If,' said the dying statesman, 'if this Bill becomes law, and I had done that, and that only,
I could retire from public life with comfort, feeling I had done my duty.' He was never again
able to leave his room, but his friends did not realise that his end was so near.

One nobleman called on him, and said he was making up a party for Christmas, and hoped he might
have the honour of including Fox amongst his guests. 'It will be a new scene, sir, and I think
you will approve,' he said, persuasively.

'I shall indeed be in a new scene by Christmas,' said Fox, quietly, and then he went on, 'My
lord, what do you think of the immortality of the soul?'

The nobleman hardly knew what answer to make, and Fox continued, calmly: 'I shall know by next
Christmas.'

A few days later he was dead, and, after a most imposing funeral, his body was laid to rest
in Westminster Abbey, but eighteen inches from the spot where, but a few months before, had
been laid the body of his great rival, Pitt.

THE ARBALIST, OR CROSSBOW.

Amongst the weapons used in early English times, there was hardly one so deadly and effectual
as the crossbow. It is not familiar to us now, being different from the ordinary bow and arrow,
which we still see sometimes. It gets its name because it has the appearance of a cross, and
is a very interesting old weapon, for with its trigger and spring it led to the invention of
the musket.

The Normans used the crossbow, and had also a sort of machine, not unlike it, that threw out
showers of arrows, or even stones.

Another name for the crossbow was 'arbalist,' and its arrows were called quarils, or bolts.
These were made of various sorts of wood; about a dozen trees were used for the purpose, but
ash-wood was thought to be the best. Generally the arrows had a tip of iron, shaped like a
pyramid, pointed, though for shooting at birds the top was sometimes blunt, so that a bird
might be struck down without being badly wounded. One old writer says that a great difference
between the long-bow and the crossbow was, that success did not depend upon who pulled the
lock--a child might do this as well as a man--but with the long-bow strength was everything.
In fact, during the Tudor times, the kings specially encouraged the archers to practise shooting
with the long-bow, and people were even forbidden to keep crossbows. The crossbow, however,
when it had reached perfection, carried much further than the ordinary long-bow.

The crossbow is said to have been invented in Italy, but it seems that the Saxons had this
bow, though it was not used much until long after, when the Normans came over. According to
an old tradition, it was by a bolt from a crossbow that King Harold received a fatal wound
at the Battle of Hastings, For some reason or other crossbows were condemned by a Council in
1139, and Christians were forbidden to use them, but during the wars with the Saracens they
were again made serviceable, by command of King Richard I. Strange to say, Richard himself
was killed, we are told, by a bolt shot from the ramparts of the Castle of Chaluz, which he
was besieging.

The pay of a crossbowman in the reign of Edward II. was sixpence a day, probably equal to three
or four shillings of our money. There are old houses in England where crossbows are still to
be seen; one among them is said to have been Robin Hood's. During England's wars with France
the bow was an important weapon. At the famous Battle of Cressy the English had about three
thousand archers, mostly armed with long-bows; the French had arbalists, or crossbows, and,
on the whole, they were less successful, as, again, at Agincourt. During the reign of Elizabeth,
however, the crossbow was once more popular, owing to an improved kind being invented in Holland.
It then became the chief weapon of the Artillery Company of London, which still exists.

THE DISOBEDIENT MOUSE.

  'O Mother,' cried a little mouse,
    Hurrying down the cellar stairs,
  'As I was coming through the house
    I met the kitten unawares.

  'And as I passed she called to me:
    "Come back! come back! I've much to tell.
  And most delighted I shall be
    If your mamma would come as well."

  'So mother, let us hurry, do!
    To keep her waiting would be rude:
  And asking me, as well as you,
    I think was very kind and good.'

  But mother mouse with terror cried--
    Her eyes were round, her cheeks were pale,
  And leaping to her baby's side
    She held him by the paw and tail.

  'No, no!' said she; 'you must not go!
    You should not trust a kitten's word.
  Her claws are sharp: she is our foe--
    The direful foe of mouse and bird.'

  But when an hour had passed away,
    The baby mouse said soft and low:
  'I wonder what she had to say?
    I'll just creep out and ask her now.'

  And heedless of his mother's call,
    In self-opinion sadly vain,
  He met the kitten in the hall--
    And never more came back again.

CONQUERED BY LOVE.

A soldier in the American army was the terror of his company. He was disobedient, quarrelsome,
and vicious. As a result he was often punished, but there was no reformation. In due time a
captain from another regiment was placed in command of that company, and was informed of the
bad character of this soldier. Very soon the man broke out, was arrested, and brought before
the captain. He looked at him for a moment, and, speaking to the sergeant, said, 'Let him go
to his quarters.'

'Shall I keep him under guard?' inquired the sergeant.

'Oh, no,' said the captain, quietly.

That evening the captain called his sergeant, and said: 'Go down to Blank's quarters and tell
him to come up to my tent; I wish to see him.'

'Shall I bring him up under guard?' asked the sergeant.

'No,' said the captain. 'Just tell him to come.'

In due time the soldier stood inside the captain's tent, cap in hand.

'Take a seat,' said the captain.

The soldier obeyed, but all the time looked defiance. The captain inquired of his home and
his relations, and then said: 'I have heard all about you, and thought I would like to see
you privately, and talk with you. You have been punished often--most times, no doubt, justly,
but perhaps sometimes unjustly. But I see in you the making of a first-class soldier--just
the kind of a man that I would like to have a whole company of. Now, if you will obey orders,
and behave as a soldier should, and as I know you can, I promise on my honour as a soldier
that I will be your friend, and stand by you. I do not want you to destroy yourself.'

With that the soldier's chin began to quiver, and the tears trickled down his cheeks, and he
said: 'Captain, you are the first man to speak a kind word to me in two years, and for your
sake I will do it.'

'Give me your hand on that, my brave fellow,' said the captain. 'I will trust you.'

And from that day on there was not a better soldier in the army.

THE SYMBOLS OF JAPAN.

The Imperial House of Japan owns three symbols which are carried before the Emperor on all
state occasions. These symbols are the Mirror, the Crystal, and the Sword, and each has its
own significance. The mirror signifies 'know thyself;' 'be pure and shine,' is the message
of the crystal; whilst the sword is a reminder to 'be sharp.'

HARE VERSUS PHEASANT.

Two friends while driving past a field of young grain observed a number of pheasants together,
a couple of the male birds being engaged in a fight. A little way off they also saw a fine
hare, which seemed to be an interested spectator of the battle.

The hare, to the astonishment of the spectators, began to hop towards the pheasants, and when
a few yards off, charged them full with fore feet and head. One of the cocks sneaked off, but
the other tackled the hare, and for a few seconds fought gamely, flying up and striking at
the hare's head with beak and spur, the hare in return butting with his head. The fur, however,
proved too much for the feather, and in the long run the pheasant had to retreat in an exhausted
condition.

That the cock pheasants should have a sparring match is nothing unusual, but that the hare
should interfere in the quarrel is not easily to be explained. Can any readers of Chatterbox
who live in the country explain this strange scene?

PUZZLERS FOR WISE HEADS.

8.--GEOGRAPHICAL ARITHMOREM.

British Isles.

  1.--50, tears, e, 100. A Warwickshire market town.
  2.--100, war, 1000, 50, bee, 50. A South London parliamentary borough.
  3.--500, run, in, fee, 1000, 50. A city of Fife.
  4.--100, no, 500, tears. A town in Yorkshire.
  5.--500, u, yes, r, 50. A town in Gloucestershire, near the
    Cotswold Hills.
  6.--1000, 500, 50, 500, 10, I see. A county in England.

C. J. B.

[Answers on page 254.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWER TO PUZZLE ON PAGE 179.

  7.--1. Macaroni.
      2. Caviare.
      3. Sauerkraut.
      4. Welsh rabbit.
      5. Chocolate cream.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 203.)

Looking back before passing through the gap in the scrub, Jack saw his mother was toiling very
slowly up the shingle, as if the rolling stones and steep incline were a little too much for
her rheumatic limbs. It gave him a pang to think how much better she had managed this same
ascent before the severe nursing of the past three months.

'I must get back and help her,' he said to Estelle. 'The climb is a bit stiff for her now;
so you won't mind if I just run up and put you down in the kitchen as quickly as possible?'

Estelle begged to be allowed to walk up, but of this he would not hear. His long legs soon
brought them to the cave-door, where, unwinding the child from the folds of the rugs, he threw
the cushions down, telling her to lie on the couch and rest. Then he ran off to his mother's
assistance. More tired than she could have thought possible after her taste of fresh air, Estelle
waited anxiously for Mrs. Wright and Jack, fearing some accident; but before long she heard
their voices. Presently Jack appeared with his mother in his arms.

'I never thought he could do it. I am so heavy now,' said Mrs. Wright, half laughing, half
crying, 'But he wouldn't take "no." It might not be a word in the dictionary for aught he cared.
Was there ever the likes of him?' she added, looking up proudly into the strong face of her
son. 'And he does not seem a bit puffed or blowed by the weight of me, does he, dearie?'

Jack, however, had disappeared to attend to his boat. Estelle thought she had never seen any
one so strong in all her life, or so good or so nice. Mrs. Wright said but little more, however,
and as usual ended her praises with a sigh.

'Why do you do that?' asked Estelle, wondering how she could sigh after Jack's kindness had
pleased her so much.

'What did I do, dearie?' demanded Mrs. Wright, sitting down on the settle, and removing her
huge black bonnet to fan herself with it.

'You always sigh when you speak of poor Jack! He is so good and kind. Is he going to die?'
she asked, distressed.

'Heaven forbid!' cried Mrs. Wright, aghast. 'Why, what are you thinking of, child? My Jack die!'

'Why are you always so sad about him if he is not going to die?'

Mrs. Wright was unusually moved. Instead of answering, she hastily collected all the walking
things, and carried them off to her room. Much astonished, as well as conscious that she had
asked an unwise question, which must have sounded like prying, Estelle, in distress, ran into
the bedroom.

Mrs. Wright was on her knees at the bedside, sobbing as she murmured her prayers for her 'dear
boy.'

Horrified and startled, Estelle slipped away again without disturbing her, taking refuge among
the cushions of the couch. Here she cried hysterically till she suddenly found herself lifted
bodily up in Jack's powerful arms.

'Worn out, little Missie?' he asked, softly. 'It was too long for a first trip.'

'No, it is not that, you dear, kind Jack!' she sobbed. 'But I have made Mrs. Wright angry with
me, and I didn't mean to--indeed, I didn't.'

'Angry!' returned Jack, surprised. 'Mother has not been angry for years, that I know of. I
can't just believe that, Missie. Let's come and see what it's all about.'

'Oh, no!' cried Estelle, shocked at the idea. 'She is crying, and saying her prayers, and they
are all for you.'

Jack's face flushed suddenly into a deep red.

'Oh!' he said in a peculiar tone. Estelle thought it sounded as if he were too sorry for words.
He did not again offer to take her to his mother.

'I am sorry. I did not know I should hurt her, or I would never have asked her---- ' cried
Estelle, looking up in surprise and dismay at the change in his face.

Putting her down, Jack arranged her couch more comfortably. She had tossed all the cushions
into a heap in her agitation, and while replacing them he said quietly: 'You have made a mistake,
Missie. Mother is not angry with you. She is sorry for me; I have not been what I ought, after
all her love and good training. I will go to her now, and she will soon be all right. Poor
Mother!' he ended, with a sigh like his mother's.

Before he had time, however, to get to the bedroom, Mrs. Wright appeared, and returned his
look of anxiety by stretching up to give him a kiss. Estelle was glad to see how loving was
the meeting. Neither said a word on the subject of their trouble. The understanding between
them was too complete. Mrs. Wright put her arms round Estelle, and kissing her affectionately,
said, 'Forgive me, dearie; I am tired and a little upset. It is so long since I have been out,
and walked up that steep path, that it seems to have knocked me over. We will just have a cup
of tea, and that will make us all bright and cheerful again.'

Estelle began to speak, but her old friend would not allow her to finish her sentence. The
subject was over, and she bustled about preparing the meal, and chatting about the sea and
the French sea-folk. Jack had left the room, and did not appear again till Estelle was in bed.
Then she heard him say, as he wished his mother good-night, 'The past is past, and can't be
undone. The future is in our hands, and it won't be my fault if I don't do my best to redeem
it. Perhaps some day atonement may be possible.'

Being half asleep Estelle did not catch the reply. Tired out with the afternoon's expedition
and the excitement following it, she slept more soundly than she had done since her illness.
Morning found her more lively and vigorous than usual, and with a better colour in her face.
The cloud her unfortunate question had occasioned appeared to have cleared off. Perhaps Jack
was more quiet, as if some of his joyousness had gone; but no one but sensitive Estelle would
have noticed anything amiss. Mrs. Wright was as cheerful as ever, as kind and careful towards
her little girl, and even more tenderly loving to Jack.

The day was bright and clear, the weather spring-like, as Jack had promised. Taking advantage
of it was the best medicine and tonic that Estelle could have. The trips in the boat became
longer, and very soon there was even a talk of a walk in the village, which Estelle much wished
to see.

This desire was greatly increased when one afternoon, on returning from their boating, she
found 'la mère Bricolin,' as she was called, sitting with Mrs. Wright. Madame Bricolin was
housekeeper to M. le Curé, and held herself a little above the fisher-folk, rarely stopping
to gossip with them. But Mrs. Wright was different--as different as Jack was from the men with
whom he went out to ply the nets.

'What do you say, dearie?' cried Mrs Wright, as Estelle entered the room. 'Here's Mère Bricolin
telling me the great fair is to come off next week.'

(Continued on page 222.)

THE SINGERS YET TO BE.

  Oh, touch them not, the loving toil
    Of wild birds fair; he surely wrongs
  Both Heaven and earth who seeks to spoil
    The promise of a thousand songs.

  Think! in these fragile caskets lie
    The unborn singers who will give
  Day-long their sweetest harmony
    From dawn until the quiet eve--

  The choristers, whose morning praise
    Is one glad psalm of hope and joy,
  Long, long before their heads upraise
    Each sleeping, dreamy girl and boy.

  Grey larks, how often I have heard
    You singing in the golden noon,
  Until my heart within me stirred
    To thank you for your music's boon.

  Yet sweeter still than all the rest,
    The last clear hymn at eventide,
  When, dropping to each well-hid nest,
    You gaze to where the sun has died.

  Faced to the splendid purple West,
    You pour full-throated forth a lay,
  Giving to God and man your best,
    As come the shadows soft and grey.

  So touch it not, this present home
    Of future singers: pass along--
  They'll soon, from out the sky's great dome,
    Repay your gentleness with song.

CAUGHT BY A TREE.

A natural history student was one afternoon, during a prolonged drought, hunting for ferns
in a dense wood. Towards evening, it grew suddenly dark, and a few drops of rain gave warning
that a storm was coming. At that moment, the student's eye fell upon a big, hollow tree-trunk
on the ground.

Striking a match, the man peered within, and saw, as he thought, a convenient place of shelter.
With feet foremost and arms pressed closely to his side, he wormed himself into the log.

Presently the rain came down in torrents, and the student congratulated himself on having found
so snug a shelter.

Fatigued with his long tramp, he fell asleep. How long he slept he did not know, but by-and-by
he was awakened by a sharp pain in his head, and a feeling of cramp in his whole body. The
rain was still falling, the darkness was intense. The bodily discomfort was, of course, due
to the man's cramped position; the pain in his head was caused by a continual drip of water
from above on to his forehead.

He drew his head back out of the way of the drops, and, in spite of his uncomfortable position,
actually fell asleep again! But the next time he awoke, the pain in his head was intolerable.
It seemed impossible to get out of reach of those maddening drops, and 'wherever they fell,'
says the student, 'they seemed like a sharp iron boring into the skull.'

But the worst was yet to come. When the poor fellow tried to crawl out of the log, he was unable
to do so! The opening by which he had so foolishly entered had been only just large enough
to admit his body, and the wood, shrunken by the long drought, had in the rain swelled to such
an extent that he was now caught, as he says, 'like a rat in a trap.'

Throughout the night the wretched victim shrieked, struggled, pushed, kicked, and wriggled
in vain. He could not raise his hands to tear at the wood.

Happily, he was discovered the next morning through the good services of a sagacious dog, which
led a search-party to the spot.

Even then, however, his sufferings were not at an end. Before he could get out of his prison,
it was found necessary to cut away a part of the log with an axe.

A PAGE FROM AN AUTOGRAPH BOOK.

Count Ensenberg, who was formerly the Hessian Ambassador in Paris, was a collector of autographs,
and there was one page of his autograph book of which he was specially proud.

This page contained the writing of three celebrated men--Guizot, Thiers, and Bismarck. Guizot
had written: 'During a long life I have learned to forgive much and forget nothing.' Thiers,
for many years Guizot's most bitter political opponent, wrote under this: 'A little forgetfullness
is a great help to reconciliation.' Some years later Bismarck closed the page with the words:
'For my part, I have seen it best to forget much, and to let others forgive me.'

MARVELS OF MAN'S MAKING.

VII.--THE NILE DAM AT ASSUAN.

The waters of the River Nile have been put into harness and made manageable for the benefit
of Egypt. The mighty stream, swelling to a flood and overflowing once a year, was wont to bring
fertility, in its own way, to the fields on either bank. But too soon these refreshing waters
sank away, and too soon the short harvest was followed by a period of drought. It was a case
of having more than enough water at one season and not enough at another, and it was plain
to see that if the supply could only be regulated, the bare, parched plains of Egypt would
have abundant crops more than once a year.

The best way to accomplish this would be to get control of the flood waters, and to keep some
of them back in a huge reservoir, until the rain-regions, from which they came, began to stop
supplies, and the river sank to its usual size. Then the gates of the reservoir could be opened,
and the pent-up flood be allowed to gush forth again to refresh the thirsty fields.

In 1898 the performance of this task was undertaken by the engineering firm of John Aird &
Co.,[1] at a cost of two million pounds, and in May of that year the scene of operations was
chosen, four miles south of the town of Assuan. Here it was proposed to erect a dam, or barrier,
right across the Nile. It would stand on the crest of a cataract and would be one mile and
a quarter long. But as the river at flood-time carries down large quantities of rich deposit
which is extremely beneficial to the soil on which it settles, it would never do to erect any
obstruction to check this in its flow. Therefore this Nile dam must be a barrier capable of
letting the river pass until its treasure was safely delivered in Egypt. Then the waters must
be checked and the great reservoir filled. This could only be done by means of a number of
sliding doors in the dam, which could be opened and closed at will.

[Footnote 1: To whom we are indebted for permission to reproduce the illustrations of the Dam.]

The first examination of the cataract seemed to show that it flowed over sound, hard rock,
and no difficulty was expected in finding a good, firm foundation. But when, to keep the water
back while the work was in progress, sand-banks and temporary dams were built across the four
channels through which the river flows to the cataract in the spring, it was found that the
granite of the river-bed was 'rotten,' and in many places it was necessary to dig down thirty
feet, before solid rock could be found. This was a sad surprise, for it seemed impossible to
start building at such a depth, and carry the masonry to a sufficient height before the Nile
in flood would come roaring down to Assuan. It was a race with time; and if the engineers failed
to win, their temporary dams would be washed away, and would have to be built again next year
before the great barrier could be gone on with. Already the Nile had more than once laughed
at these temporary banks of sand and stone, and had broken through them and leapt upon its
course as though jeering at human power. So persistent had been its attacks that the engineers
almost despaired of finding anything heavy enough to hold its own in the opening which the
water had made. At last two large railway waggons were filled with stones in wire cages, securely
tied into the waggons with steel ropes. These, weighing altogether fifty tons, were pushed
along a pair of rails on the top of the 'sudd' (or thick growth of weeds and flotsam) till
they fell with a tremendous splash into the opening. Then the Nile was beaten. It could not
move such a weight, and the masons worked on in peace--three hundred and fifty-three of them,
night and day. Fortunately, too, the builders were encouraged by telegraphic reports received
from stations farther up the river to the effect that the waters showed no signs of rising.
The flood, in fact, proved unusually late that year, and by the time it came, the dam at Assuan
was raised sufficiently high to be independent of the temporary 'sudds.' For three months work
was suspended while the water roared through and over the stonework, but at the end of that
time work progressed more rapidly than ever.

So cleverly had matters been arranged that no delay was caused by having to wait for materials.
The granite was quarried in the neighbourhood, but was no more prompt in arriving at the scene
of action than the coal and cement that came all the way from England. During the time of construction
no less than twenty-eight thousand tons of coal were burned in the engine fires; and seventy-five
thousand tons of cement were mixed to bind the granite blocks together, or to be formed into
smooth slabs for facing the sluice-ways. In the long wall thus erected, which is seventy feet
high in places (the bed of the river being so uneven) there are one hundred and eighty gateways
or sluices, each nearly seven feet wide and twenty-three feet deep--except a few which are
just half that depth. These openings are arranged on different levels, the bottom row being
sixty feet below the surface of the water when the reservoir is full. They are all contained
in a length of four thousand six hundred feet, the rest (one thousand eight hundred feet) of
the dam being solid masonry. The sluice-ways are closed by iron gates which work vertically
in grooves of steel, and can be raised or lowered from the top of the dam--a roadway sixteen
feet wide. That these huge iron curtains may be lifted more easily, one hundred and thirty
of them are fitted with rollers, and whatever the pressure of water, they rise and fall with
great smoothness.

Five years were allowed for the accomplishment of this great task, but by diligence and promptness,
John Aird & Co. were ready to pack up their tools and come away a whole year sooner than was
expected. His Royal Highness the Duke of Connaught went to Assuan, in December, 1902, and declared
the great dam fit to begin its important duties.

And this is how those duties are performed. Early in July each year, every sluice is opened
to its widest, the iron doors being lifted as high as they will go. The Nile at that time is
seen to be rapidly rising, and nothing must obstruct its passage. For five whole months it
is allowed to rush in growing volume on its course. By that time, the rich deposit, of which
we have spoken, has all passed through the sluices, and the time has arrived for checking the
clearer and less turbulent water by which it is followed. The first gates are lowered early
in December, being of course those in the lowest part of the dam. These are followed by fifty
more on a higher level; and so on until all the sluices are carefully closed, with the exception
of some which are left open for surplus water to pass through. The reservoir is not full until
the end of February, and thus takes three months to collect its waters. But so vast is its
extent, that the stoppage is said to affect the river one hundred and forty miles farther south.
The water thus held back is not allowed to escape until May, when it is most wanted in the
fields below the dam; and it is, of course, all gone by the beginning of July, when the sluices
are gaping wide again to let the new floods pass. It need hardly be said that the order just
described varies a great deal according to the moods of the river. The dam must be regulated
to those changing moods, or the benefits it gives could not be relied upon. Thus from the fickle
stream a constant blessing is drawn, and year after year, with the shifting seasons, those
stately gates will rise and fall; the river channel will always have its water, so long as
the gates last, and there will be corn in Egypt.

GREY-SKIN'S ADVENTURES.

But for an undue affection on my part for fruit of all kinds, you would probably never have
heard my story; for I might possibly have been free, and the happiest lives, they say, are
those which have no history.

