'Allow me to present you.' And Berenger bowed low in succession several times in reply to salutations,
as his cousin Narcisse named M. d'O, M. de la Valette, M. de Pibrac, M. l'Abbe de Mericour,
who had done him the honour to accompany him in coming out to meet his father and M. le Baron.
Then the two cousins remounted, something was said to the Chevalier of the devoirs of the demoiselles,
and they rode on together bandying news and repartee so fast, that Berenger felt that his ears
had become too much accustomed to the more deliberate English speech to enter at once into
what caused so much excitement, gesture, and wit. The royal marriage seemed doubtful--the Pope
refused his sanction; nay, but means would be found--the King would not be impeded by the Pope;
Spanish influence--nay, the King had thrown himself at the head of the Reformed--he was bewitched
with the grim old Coligny--if order were not soon taken, the Louvre itself would become a temple.

Then one of the party turned suddenly and said, 'But I forget, Monsieur is a Huguenot?'

'I am a Protestant of the English Church,' said Berenger, rather stiffly, in the formula of
his day.

'Well, you have come at the right moment, 'Tis all for the sermon now. If the little Abbe there
wished to sail with a fair wind, he should throw away his breviary and study his Calvin.'

Berenger's attention was thus attracted to the Abbe de Mericour, a young man of about twenty,
whose dress was darker than that of the rest, and his hat of a clerical cut, though in other
respects he was equipped with the same point-device elegance.

'Calvin would never give him the rich abbey of Selicy,' said another; 'the breviary is the
safer speculation.'

'Ah! M. de Ribaumont can tell you that abbeys are no such securities in these days. Let yonder
Admiral get the upper hand, and we shall see Mericour, the happy cadet of eight brothers and
sisters, turned adrift from their convents. What a fatherly spectacle M. le Marquis will present!'

Here the Chevalier beckoned to Berenger, who, riding forward, learnt that Narcisse had engaged
lodgings for him and his suite at one of the great inns, and Berenger returned his thanks,
and a proposal to the Chevalier to become his guest. They were by this time entering the city,
where the extreme narrowness and dirt of the streets contrasted with the grandeur of the palatial
courts that could be partly seen through their archways. At the hostel they rode under such
an arch, and found themselves in a paved yard that would have been grand had it been clean.
Privacy had scarcely been invented, and the party were not at all surprised to find that the
apartment prepared for them was to serve both day and night for Berenger, the Chevalier, and
Mr. Adderley, besides having a truckle-bed on the floor for Osbert. Meals were taken in public,
and it was now one o'clock--just dinner-time; so after a hasty toilette the three gentlemen
descended, the rest of the party having ridden off to their quarters, either as attendants
of Monsieur or to their families. It was a sumptuous meal, at which a great number of gentlemen
were present, coming in from rooms hired over shops, &c--all, as it seemed, assembled at Paris
for the marriage festivities; but Berenger began to gather that they were for the most part
adherents of the Guise party, and far from friendly to the Huguenot interest. Some of them
appeared hardly to tolerate Mr. Adderley's presence at the table; and Berenger, though his
kinsman's patronage secured civil treatment, felt much out of his element, confused, unable
to take part in the conversation, and sure that he was where those at home did not wish to see him.

No sooner was the dinner over than he rose and expressed his intention of delivering his letters
of introduction in person to the English ambassador and to the Admiral de Coligny, whom, as
his father's old friend and the hero of his boyhood, he was most anxious to see. The Chevalier
demurred to this. Were it not better to take measures at once for making himself presentable,
and Narcisse had already supplied him with directions to the fashionable hair-cutter, &c. It
would be taken amiss if he went to the Admiral before going to present himself to the King.

'And I cannot see my cousins till I go to court?' asked Berenger.

'Most emphatically No. Have I not told you that the one is in the suite of the young Queen,
the other in that of the Queen-mother? I will myself present you, if only you will give me
the honour of your guidance.'

'With all thanks, Monsieur,' said Berenger; 'my grandfather's desire was that I should lose
no time in going to his friend Sir Francis Walsingham, and I had best submit myself to his
judgment as to my appearance at court.'

On this point Berenger was resolute, though the Chevalier recurred to the danger of any proceeding
that might be unacceptable at court. Berenger, harassed and impatient, repeated that he did
not care about the court, and wished merely to fulfil his purpose and return, at which his
kinsman shook his head and shrugged his shoulders, and muttered to himself, 'Ah, what does
he know! He will regret it when too late; but I have done my best.'

Berenger paid little attention to this, but calling Landry Osbert, and a couple of his men,
he bade them take their swords and bucklers, and escort him in his walk through Paris. He set
off with a sense of escape, but before he had made many steps, he was obliged to turn and warn
Humfrey and Jack that they were not to walk swaggering along the streets, with hand on sword,
as if every Frenchman they saw was the natural foe of their master.

Very tall were the houses, very close and extremely filthy the streets, very miserable the
beggars; and yet here and there was to be seen the open front of a most brilliant shop, and
the thoroughfares were crowded with richly-dressed gallants. Even the wider streets gave little
space for the career of the gay horsemen who rode along them, still less for the great, cumbrous,
though gaily-decked coaches, in which ladies appeared glittering with jewels and fan in hand,
with tiny white dogs on their knees.

The persons of whom Berenger inquired the way all uncapped most respectfully, and replied with
much courtesy; but when the hotel of the English ambassador had been pointed out to him, he
hardly believed it, so foul and squalid was the street, where a large nail-studded door occupied
a wide archway. Here was a heavy iron knocker, to which Osbert applied himself. A little door
was at once opened by a large, powerful John Bull of a porter, whose looks expanded into friendly
welcome when he heard the English tongue of the visitor. Inside, the scene was very unlike
that without. The hotel was built round a paved court, adorned with statues and stone vases,
with yews and cypresses in them, and a grand flight of steps led up to the grand centre of
the house, around which were collected a number of attendants, wearing the Walsingham colours.
Among these Berenger left his two Englishmen, well content to have fallen into an English colony.
Landry followed him to announce the visitor, Berenger waiting to know whether the Ambassador
would be at liberty to see him.

Almost immediately the door was re-opened, and a keen-looking gentleman, about six-and-thirty
years of age, rather short in stature, but nevertheless very dignified-looking, came forward
with out-stretched hands--'Greet you well, my Lord de Ribaumont. We expected your coming. Welcome,
mine honoured friend's grandson.'

And as Berenger bent low in reverent greeting, Sir Francis took his hand and kissed his brow,
saying, 'Come in, my young friend; we are but sitting over our wine and comfits after dinner.
Have you dined?'

Berenger explained that he had dined at the inn, where he had taken lodgings.

'Nay, but that must not be. My Lord Walwyn's grandson here, and not my guest! You do me wrong,
sir, in not having ridden hither at once.'

'Truly, my Lord, I ventured not. They sent me forth with quite a company--my tutor and six grooms.'

'Our chaplain will gladly welcome his reverend brother,' said Sir Francis; and as to the grooms,
one of my fellows shall go and bring them and their horses up. What!' rather gravely, as Berenger
still hesitated. 'I have letters for you here, which methinks will make your grandfather's
wish clear to you.'

Berenger saw the Ambassador was displeased with his reluctance, and answered quickly, 'In sooth,
my Lord, I would esteem myself only too happy to be thus honoured, but in sooth----' he repeated
himself, and faltered.

'In sooth, you expected more freedom than in my grave house,' said Walsingham, displeased.

'Not so, my Lord: it would be all that I could desire; but I have done hastily. A kinsman of
mine has come up to Paris with me, and I have made him my guest. I know not how to break with
him--the Chevalier de Ribaumont.'

'What, the young ruffler in Monsieur's suite?'

'No, my Lord; his father. He comes on my business. He is an old man, and can ill bear the cost,
and I could scarce throw him over.'

Berenger spoke with such earnest, bright, open simplicity, and look so boyish and confiding,
that Sir Francis's heart was won, and he smiled as he said, 'Right, lad, you are a considerate
youth. It were not well to cast off your kinsman; but when you have read your letters, you
may well plead your grandfather's desires, to say nothing of a hint from her Grace to have
an eye to you. And for the rest, you can acquit yourself gracefully to the gentleman, by asking
him to occupy the lodging that you had taken.'

Berenger's face brightened up in a manner that spoke for his sincerity; and Sir Francis added,
'And where be these lodgings?'

'At the Croix de Lorraine.'

'Ha! Your kinsman has taken you into a nest of Guisards. But come, let me present you to my
wife and my other guests, then will I give you your letters, and you shall return and make
your excuses to Monsieur le Chevalier.'

Berenger seemed to himself to be on familiar ground again as his host thus assumed the direction
of him and ushered him into a large dining-hall, where the table had been forsaken in favour
of a lesser table placed in the ample window, round which sat assembled some six or eight persons,
with fruit, wine, and conserves before them, a few little dogs at their feet or on their laps,
and a lute lying on the knee of one of the young gentlemen. Sir Francis presented the young
Lord de Ribaumont, their expected guest, to Lady Walsingham, from whom he received a cordial
welcome, and her two little daughter, Frances and Elizabeth, and likewise to the gentleman
with the lute, a youth about a year older than Berenger, and of very striking and prepossessing
countenance, who was named as Mr. Sidney, the son of the Lord Deputy of Ireland. A couple of
gentlemen who would in these times have been termed attaches, a couple of lady attendants upon
Lady Walsingham, and the chaplain made up the party, which on this day chanced only to include,
besides the household, the young traveller, Sidney. Berenger was at once seated, and accepted
a welcoming-cup of wine (i.e. a long slender glass with a beautifully twisted stem), responded
to friendly inquiries about his relatives at home, and acknowledged the healths that were drunk
in honour of their names; after which Lady Walsingham begged that Mr. Sidney would sing the
madrigal he had before promised: afterwards a glee was sung by Sidney, one of the gentlemen,
and Lady Walsingham; and it was discovered that Mr. de Ribaumont had a trained ear, and the
very voice that was wanting to the Italian song they were practising. And so sped a happy hour,
till a booted and spurred messenger came in with letters for his Excellency, who being thus
roused from his dreamy enjoyment of the music, carried young Ribaumont off with him to his
cabinet, and there made over to him a packet, with good news from home, and orders that made
it clear that he could do no other than accept the hospitality of the Embassy. Thus armed with
authority, he returned to the Croix de Lorraine, where Mr. Adderley could not contain his joy
at the change to quarters not only so much more congenial, buts so much safer; and the Chevalier,
after some polite demur, consented to remain in possession of the rooms, being in fact well
satisfied with the arrangement.

'Let him steep himself up to the lips among the English,' said Tithonus to his son. 'Thus will
he peaceably relinquish to you all that should have been yours from the first, and at court
will only be looked on as an overgrown English page.'

The change to the Ambassador's made Berenger happy at once. He was not French enough in breeding,
or even constitution, to feel the society of the Croix de Lorraine congenial; and, kind as
the Chevalier showed himself, it was with a wonderful sense of relief that Berenger shook himself
free from both his fawning and his patronizing. There was a constant sense of not understanding
the old gentleman's aims, whereas in Walsingham's house all was as clear, easy, and open as
at home.

And though Berenger had been educated in the country, it had been in the same tone as that
of his new friends. He was greatly approved by Sir Francis as a stripling of parts and modesty.
Mr. Sidney made him a companion, and the young matron, Lady Walsingham, treated him as neither
lout nor lubber. Yet he could not be at ease in his state between curiosity and repulsion towards
the wife who was to be discarded by mutual consent. The sight of the scenes of his early childhood
had stirred up warmer recollections of the pretty little playful torment, who through the vista
of years assumed the air of a tricksy elf rather than the little vixen he used to think her.
His curiosity had been further stimulated by the sight of his rival, Narcisse, whose effeminate
ornaments, small stature, and seat on horseback filled Sir Marmaduke's pupil with inquisitive
disdain as to the woman who could prefer anything so unmanly.

Sidney was to be presented at the after-dinner reception at the Louvre the next day, and Sir
Francis proposed to take young Ribaumont with him. Berenger coloured, and spoke of his equipment,
and Sidney good-naturedly offered to come and inspect. That young gentleman was one of the
daintiest in apparel of his day; but he was amazed that the suit in which Berenger had paid
his devoir to Queen Elizabeth should have been set aside--it was of pearl-grey velvet, slashed
with rose-coloured satin, and in shape and fashion point-device--unless, as the Ambassador
said good-humouredly, 'my young Lord Ribaumont wished to be one of Monsieur's clique.' Thus
arrayed, then, and with the chaplet of pearls bound round the small cap, with a heron-plume
that sat jauntily on one side of his fair curled head, Berenger took his seat beside the hazel-eyed,
brown-haired Sidney, in his white satin and crimson, and with the Ambassador and his attendants
were rolled off in the great state-coach drawn by eight horses, which had no sinecure in dragging
the ponderous machine through the unsavoury debris of the streets.

Royalty fed in public. The sumptuous banqueting-room contained a barrier, partitioning off
a space where Charles IX. sat alone at his table, as a State spectacle. He was a sallow, unhealthy-looking
youth, with large prominent dark eyes and a melancholy dreaminess of expression, as if the
whole ceremony, not to say the world itself, were distasteful. Now and then, as though endeavouring
to cast off the mood, he would call to some gentleman and exchange a rough jest, generally
fortified with a tremendous oath, that startled Berenger's innocent ears. He scarcely tasted
what was put on his plate, but drank largely of sherbet, and seemed to be trying to linger
through the space allotted for the ceremony.

Silence was observed, but not so absolute that Walsingham could not point out to his young
companions the notabilities present. The lofty figure of Henri, Duke of Guise, towered high
above all around him, and his grand features, proud lip, and stern eye claimed such natural
superiority that Berenger for a moment felt a glow on his cheek as he remembered his challenge
of his right to rival that splendid stature. And yet Guise was very little older than himself;
but he walked, a prince of men, among a crowd of gentlemen, attendants on him rather than on
the King. The elegant but indolent-looking Duke de Montmorency had a much more attractive air,
and seemed to hold a kind of neutral ground between Guise on the one hand, and the Reformed,
who mustered at the other end of the apartment. Almost by intuition, Berenger knew the fine
calm features of the gray-haired Admiral de Coligny before he heard him so addressed by the
King's loud, rough voice. When the King rose from table the presentations took place, but as
Charles heard the name of the Baron de Ribaumont, he exclaimed, 'What, Monsieur, are you presented
here by our good sister's representative?'

Walsingham answered for him, alluding to the negotiations for Queen Elizabeth's marriage with
one of the French princes--'Sire, in the present happy conjuncture, it needs not be a less
loyal Frenchman to have an inheritance in the lands of my royal mistress.'

'What say you, Monsieur?' sharply demanded the King: 'are you come here to renounce your country,
religion--and love, as I have been told?'

'I hope, Sire, never to be unfaithful where I owe faith,' said Berenger, heated, startled,
and driven to extremity.

'Not ill answered for the English giant,' said Charles aside to an attendant: then turning
eagerly to Sidney, whose transcendent accomplishments had already become renowned, Charles
welcomed him to court, and began to discuss Ronsard's last sonnet, showing no small taste and
knowledge of poetry. Greatly attracted by Sidney, the King detained the whole English party
by an invitation to Walsingham to hear music in the Queen-mother's apartments; and Berenger,
following in the wake of his friends, found himself in a spacious hall, with a raised gallery
at one end for the musicians, the walls decorated with the glorious paintings collected by
Francois I., Greek and Roman statues clustered at the angles, and cabinets with gems and antiques
disposed at intervals. Not that Berenger beheld much of this: he was absolutely dazzled with
the brilliant assembly into which he was admitted. There moved the most beautiful women in
France, in every lovely-coloured tint that dress could assume: their bosoms, arms, and hair
sparkling with jewels; their gossamer ruffs surrounding their necks like fairy wings; their
light laugh mingling with the music, as they sat, stood, or walked in graceful attitudes conversing
with one another or with the cavaliers, whose brilliant velvet and jewels fifty mixed with
their bright array. These were the sirens he had heard of, the 'squadron of the Queen-mother,'
the dangerous beings against whom he was to steel himself. And which of them was the child
he had played with, to whom his vows had been plighted? It was like some of the enchanting
dreams of romance merely to look at these fair creatures; and he stood as if gazing into a
magic-glass till Sir Francis Walsingham, looking round for him, said, 'Come, then, my young
friend, you must do your devoirs to the Queens. Sidney, I see, is as usual in his element;
the King has seized upon him.'

Catherine de Medicis was seated on a large velvet chair, conversing with the German ambassador.
Never beautiful, she appeared to more advantage in her mature years than in her girlhood, and
there was all the dignity of a lifetime of rule in demeanour and gestures, the bearing of her
head, and motion of her exquisite hands. Her eyes were like her son's, prominent, and gave
the sense of seeing all round at once, and her smile was to the highest degree engaging. She
received the young Baron de Ribaumont far more graciously than Charles has done, held out her
hand to be kissed, and observed 'that the young gentleman was like Madame sa mere whom she
well remembered as much admired. Was it true that she was married in England?'

Berenger bowed assent.

'Ah! You English make good spouses,' she said, with a smile. 'Ever satisfied with home! But,
your Excellency,' added she, turning to Walsingham, 'what stones would best please my good
sister for the setting of the jewel my son would send her with his portrait? He is all for
emeralds, for the hue of hope; but I call it the colour of jealousy.'

Walsingham made a sign that Berenger had better retreat from hearing the solemn coquetting
carried on by the maiden Queen through her gravest ambassadors. He fell back, and remained
watching the brilliant throng, trying in vain to discover the bright merry eyes and velvet
cheek he remembered of old. Presently a kind salutation interrupted him, and a gentleman who
perceived him to be a stranger began to try to set him at ease, pointed out to him the handsome,
foppishly-dressed Duke of Anjou, and his ugly, spiteful little brother of Alengon, then designated
as Queen Elizabeth's future husband, who was saying something to a lady that made her colour
and bite her lips. 'Is that the younger Queen?' asked Berenger, as his eye fell on a sallow,
dark-complexioned, sad-looking little creature in deep mourning, and with three or four such
stately-looking, black-robed, Spanish-looking duennas round her as to prove her to be a person
of high consequence.

'That? Oh no; that is Madame Catherine of Navarre, who has resided here ever since her mother's
death, awaiting her brother, our royal bridegroom. See, here is the bride, Madame Marguerite,
conversing with M. de Guise.'

Berenger paid but little heed to Marguerite's showy but already rather coarse beauty, and still
asked where was the young Queen Elizabeth of Austria. She was unwell, and not in presence.
'Ah! then,' he said, 'her ladies will not be here.'

'That is not certain. Are you wishing to see any one of them?'

'I would like to see----' He could not help colouring till his cheeks rivaled the colour of
his sword-knot. 'I want just to know if she is here. I know not if she be called Madame or
Mademoiselle de Ribaumont.'

'The fair Ribaumont! Assuredly; see, she is looking at you. Shall I present you?'

A pair of exceedingly brilliant dark eyes were fixed on Berenger with a sort of haughty curiosity
and half-recognition. The face was handsome and brilliant, but he felt indignant at not perceiving
a particle of a blush at encountering him, indeed rather a look of amusement at the deep glow
which his fair complexion rendered so apparent. He would fain have escaped from so public an
interview, but her eye was upon him, and there was no avoiding the meeting. As he moved nearer
he saw what a beautiful person she was, her rich primrose-coloured dress setting off her brunette
complexion and her stately presence. She looked older than he had expected; but this was a
hotbed where every one grew up early, and the expression and manner made him feel that an old
intimacy was here renewed, and that they were no strangers.

'We need no introduction, cousin,' she said, giving a hand to be saluted. 'I knew you instantly.
It is the old face of Chateau Leurre, only gone up so high and become so handsome.'

'Cousins,' thought he. 'Well, it makes things easier! but what audacity to be so much at her
ease, when Lucy would have sunk into the earth with shame.' His bow had saved him the necessity
of answering in words, and the lady continued:

'And Madame votre mere. Is she well? She was very good to me.'

Berenger did not think that kindness to Eustacie had been her chief perfection, but he answered
that she was well and sent her commendations, which the young lady acknowledged by a magnificent
curtsey. 'And as beautiful as ever?' she asked.

'Quite as beautiful,' he said, 'only somewhat more embonpoint.'

'Ah!' she said, smiling graciously, and raising her splendid eyes to his face, 'I understand
better what that famous beauty was now, and the fairness that caused her to be called the Swan.'

It was so personal that the colour rushed again into his cheek. No one had ever so presumed
to admire him; and with a degree gratified and surprised, and sensible more and more of the
extreme beauty of the lady, there was a sort of alarm about him as if this were the very fascination
he had been warned against, and as if she were casting a net about him, which, wife as she
was, it would be impossible to him to break.

'Nay, Monsieur,' she laughed, 'is a word from one so near too much for your modesty? Is it
possible that no one has yet told you of your good mien? Or do they not appreciate Greek noses
and blue eyes in the land of fat Englishmen? How have you ever lived en province? Our princes
are ready to hang themselves at the thought of being in such banishment, even at court--indeed,
Monsieur has contrived to transfer the noose to M. d'Alengon. Have you been at court, cousin?'

'I have been presented to the Queen.'

She then proceeded to ask questions about the chief personages with a rapid intelligence that
surprised him as well as alarmed him, for he felt more and more in the power of a very clever
as well as beautiful woman, and the attraction she exercised made him long the more to escape;
but she smiled and signed away several cavaliers who would have gained her attention. She spoke
of Queen Mary of Scotland, then in the fifth years of her captivity, and asked if he did not
feel bound to her service by having been once her partner. Did not he remember that dance?

'I have heard my mother speak of it far too often to forget it,' said Berenger, glowing again
for her who could speak of that occasion without a blush.

'You wish to gloss over your first inconstancy, sir,' she said, archly; but he was spared from
further reply by Philip Sidney's coming to tell him that the Ambassador was ready to return
home. He took leave with an alacrity that redoubled his courtesy so much that he desired to
be commended to his cousin Diane, whom he had not seen.

'To Diane?' said the lady, inquiringly.

'To Mademoiselle Diane de Ribaumont,' he corrected himself, ashamed of his English rusticity.
'I beg pardon if I spoke too familiarly of her.'

'She should be flattered by M. le Baron's slightest recollection,' said the lady, with an ironical
tone that there was no time to analyze, and with a mutual gesture of courtesy he followed Sidney
to where Sir Francis awaited them.

'Well, what think you of the French court?' asked Sidney, so soon as the young men were in private.

'I only know that you may bless your good fortune that you stand in no danger from a wife from
thence.'

'Ha!' cried Sidney, laughing, 'you found your lawful owner. Why did you not present me?'

'I was ashamed of her bold visage.'

'What!--was she the beauteous demoiselle I found you gallanting,' said Philip Sidney, a good
deal entertained, 'who was gazing at you with such visible admiration in her languishing black
eyes?'

'The foul fiend seize their impudence!'

'Fie! for shame! thus to speak of your own wife,' said the mischievous Sidney, 'and the fairest----'

'Go to, Sidney. Were she fairer than Venus, with a kingdom to her dower, I would none of a
woman without a blush.'

'What, in converse with her wedded husband,' said Sidney. 'Were not that over-shamefastness?'

'Nay, now, Sidney, in good sooth give me your opinion. Should she set her fancy on me, even
in this hour, am I bound in honour to hold by this accursed wedlock--lock, as it may well be
called?'

'I know no remedy,' said Sidney, gravely, 'save the two enchanted founts of love and hate.
They cannot be far away, since it was at the siege of Paris that Rinaldo and Orlando drank
thereof.'

Another question that Berenger would fain have asked Sidney, but could not for very shame and
dread of mockery, was, whether he himself were so dangerously handsome as the lady had given
him to understand. With a sense of shame, he caught up the little mirror in his casket, and
could not but allow to himself that the features he there saw were symmetrical--the eyes azure,
the complexion of a delicate fairness, such as he had not seen equaled, except in those splendid
Lorraine princes; nor could he judge of the further effect of his open-faced frank simplicity
and sweetness of expression--contemptible, perhaps, to the astute, but most winning to the
world-weary. He shook his head at the fair reflection, smiled as he saw the colour rising at
his own sensation of being a fool, and then threw it aside, vexed with himself for being unable
not to feel attracted by the first woman who had shown herself struck by his personal graces,
and yet aware that this was the very thing he had been warned against, and determined to make
all the resistance in his power to a creature whose very beauty and enchantment gave him a
sense of discomfort.

CHAPTER V. THE CONVENT BIRD

     Young knight, whatever that dost armes professe,
     And through long labours huntest after fame,
     Beware of fraud, beware of ficklenesse,
     In choice and change of thy beloved dame.
                          Spenser, FAERY QUEENE

Berenger' mind was relieved, even while his vanity was mortified, when the Chevalier and his
son came the next day to bring him the formal letter requesting the Pope's annulment of his
marriage. After he had signed it, it was to be taken to Eustacie, and so soon as he should
attain his twenty-first year he was to dispose of Chateau Leurre, as well as of his claim to
the ancestral castle in Picardy, to his cousin Narcisse, and thus become entirely free to transfer
his allegiance to the Queen of England.

It was a very good thing--that he well knew; and he had a strong sense of virtue and obedience,
as he formed with his pen the words in all their fullness, Henri Beranger Eustache, Baron de
Ribaumont et Seigneur de Leurre. He could not help wondering whether the lady who looked at
him so admiringly really preferred such a mean-looking little fop as Narcisse, whether she
were afraid of his English home and breeding, or whether all this open coquetry were really
the court manners of ladies towards gentlemen, and he had been an absolute simpleton to be
flattered. Any way, she would have been a most undesirable wife, and he was well quit of her;
but he did feel a certain lurking desire that, since the bonds were cut and he was no longer
in danger from her, he might see her again, carry home a mental inventory of the splendid beauties
he had renounced, and decide what was the motive that actuated her in rejecting his own handsome
self. Meantime, he proceeded to enjoy the amusements and advantage of his sojourn at Paris,
of which by no means the least was the society of Philip Sidney, and the charm his brilliant
genius imparted to every pursuit they shared. Books at the University, fencing and dancing
from the best professors, Italian poetry, French sonnets, Latin epigrams; nothing came amiss
to Sidney, the flower of English youth: and Berenger had taste, intelligence, and cultivation
enough to enter into all in which Sidney led the way. The good tutor, after all his miseries
on the journey, was delighted to write to Lord Walwyn, that, far from being a risk and temptation,
this visit was a school in all that was virtuous and comely.

If the good man had any cause of dissatisfaction, it was with the Calvinistic tendencies of
the Ambassador's household. Walsingham was always on the Puritanical side of Elizabeth's court,
and such an atmosphere as that of Paris, where the Roman Catholic system was at that time showing
more corruption than it has ever done before or since in any other place, naturally threw him
into sympathy with the Reformed. The reaction that half a century later filled the Gallican
Church with saintliness had not set in; her ecclesiastics were the tools of a wicked and bloodthirsty
court, who hated virtue as much as schism in the men whom they persecuted. The Huguenots were
for the most part men whose instincts for truth and virtue had recoiled from the popular system,
and thus it was indeed as if piety and morality were arrayed on one side, and superstition
and debauchery on the other. Mr. Adderley thus found the tone of the Ambassador's chaplain
that of far more complete fellowship with the Reformed pastors than he himself was disposed
to admit. There were a large number of these gathered at Paris; for the lull in persecution
that had followed the battle of Moncontour had given hopes of a final accommodation between
the two parties, and many had come up to consult with the numerous lay nobility who had congregated
to witness the King of Navarre's wedding. Among them, Berenger met his father's old friend
Isaac Gardon, who had come to Paris for the purpose of giving his only surviving son in marriage
to the daughter of a watchmaker to whom he had for many years been betrothed. By him the youth,
with his innocent face and gracious respectful manners, was watched with delight, as fulfilling
the fairest hopes of the poor Baron, but the old minister would have been sorely disappointed
had he known how little Berenger felt inclined towards his party.

The royal one of course Berenger could not love, but the rigid bareness, and, as he thought,
irreverence of the Calvinist, and the want of all forms, jarred upon one used to a ritual which
retained much of the ancient form. In the early years of Elizabeth, every possible diversity
prevailed in parish churches, according to the predilections of rector and squire; from forms
scarcely altered from those of old times, down to the baldest, rudest neglect of all rites;
and Berenger, in his country home, had been used to the first extreme. He could not believe
that what he heard and saw among the Sacrementaires, as they were called, was what his father
had prized; and he greatly scandalized Sidney, the pupil of Hubert Languet, by openly expressing
his distaste and dismay when he found their worship viewed by both Walsingham and Sidney as
a model to which the English Protestants ought to be brought.

However, Sidney excused all this as more boyish distaste to sermons and love of externals,
and Berenger himself reflected little on the subject. The aspect of the venerable Coligny,
his father's friend, did far more towards making him a Huguenot than any discussion of doctrine.
The good old Admiral received him affectionately, and talked to him warmly of his father, and
the grave, noble countenance and kind manner won his heart. Great projects were on foot, and
were much relished by the young King, for raising an army and striking a blow at Spain by aiding
the Reformed in the Netherlands; and Coligny was as ardent as a youth in the cause, hoping
at once to aid his brethren, to free the young King from evil influences, and to strike one
good stroke against the old national enemy. He talked eagerly to Sidney of alliances with England,
and then lamented over the loss of so promising a youth as young Ribaumont to the Reformed
cause in France. If the marriage with the heiress could have taken effect, he would have obtained
estates near enough to some of the main Huguenot strongholds to be very important, and these
would now remain under the power of Narcisse de Ribaumont, a determined ally of the Guise faction.
It was a pity, but the Admiral could not blame the youth for obeying the wish of his guardian
grandfather; and he owned, with a sigh, that England was a more peaceful land than his own
beloved country. Berenger was a little nettled at this implication, and began to talk of joining
the French standard in a campaign in their present home and described the conversation, Walsingham
said,--

'The Admiral's favourite project! He would do wisely not to brag of it so openly. The King
of Spain has too many in his interest in this place not to be warned, and to be thus further
egged on to compass the ruin of Coligny.'

'I should have thought,' said Sidney. 'that nothing could add to his hatred of the Reformed.'

'Scarcely,' said Walsingham; 'save that it is they who hinder the Duke of Guise from being
a good Frenchman, and a foe to Spain.'

Politics had not developed themselves in Berenger's mind, and he listened inattentively while
Walsingham talked over with Sidney the state of parties in France, where natural national enmity
to Spain was balanced by the need felt by the Queen-mother of the support of that great Roman
Catholic power against the Huguenots; whom Walsingham believed her to dread and hate less for
their own sake than from the fear of loss of influence over her son. He believed Charles IX.
himself to have much leaning towards the Reformed, but the late victories has thrown the whole
court entirely into the power of the Guises, the truly unscrupulous partisans of Rome. They
were further inflamed against the Huguenots by the assassination of the last Duke of Guise,
and by the violences that had been committed by some of the Reformed party, in especial a massacre
of prisoners at Nerac.

Sidney exclaimed that the Huguenots had suffered far worse cruelties.

'That is true,' replied Sir Francis, 'but, my young friend, you will find, in all matters of
reprisals, that a party has no memory for what it may commit, only for what it may receive.'

The conversation was interrupted by an invitation to the Ambassador's family and guests to
a tilting-match and subsequent ball at the Louvre. In the first Berenger did his part with
credit; to the second he went feeling full of that strange attraction of repulsion. He knew
gentlemen enough in Coligny's suite for it to be likely that he might remain unperceived among
them, and he knew this would be prudent, but he found himself unexpectedly near the ranks of
ladies, and smile and gesture absolutely drew him towards his semi-spouse, so that he had no
alternative but to lead her out to dance.

The stately measure was trod in silence as usual, but he felt the dark eyes studying him all
the time. However, he could bear it better now that the deed was done, and she had voluntarily
made him less to her than any gallant parading or mincing about the room.

'So you bear the pearls, sir?' she said, as the dance finished.

'The only heirloom I shall take with me,' he said.

'Is a look at them too great a favour to ask from their jealous guardian?' she asked.

He smiled, half ashamed of his own annoyance at being obliged to place them in her hands. He
was sure she would try to cajole him out of them, and by way of asserting his property in them
he did not detach them from the band of his black velvet cap, but gave it with them into her
hand. She looked at each one, and counted them wistfully.

'Seventeen!' she said;' and how beautiful! I never saw them so near before. They are so becoming
to that fair cheek that I suppose no offer from my--my uncle, on our behalf, would induce you
to part with them?'

An impulse of open-handed gallantry would have made him answer, 'No offer from your uncle,
but a simple request from you;' but he thought in time of the absurdity of returning without
them, and merely answered, 'I have no right to yield them, fair lady. They are the witness
to my forefather's fame and prowess.'

'Yes, sir, and to those of mine also,' she replied. 'And you would take them over to the enemy
from whom that prowess extorted them?'

'The country which honoured and rewarded that prowess!' replied Berenger.

She looked at him with an interrogative glance of surprise at the readiness of his answer;
then, with half a sigh, said, 'There are your pearls, sir; I cannot establish our right, though
I verily believe it was the cause of our last quarrel;' and she smiled archly.

'I believe it was,' he said, gravely; but added, in the moment of relief at recovering the
precious heirloom, 'though it was Diane who inspired you to seize upon them.'

'Ah! poor Diane! you sometimes recollect her then? If I remember right, you used to agree with
her better than with your little spouse, cousin!'

'If I quarrelled with her less, I liked her less,' answered Berenger--who, since the act of
separation, had not been so guarded in his demeanour, and began to give way to his natural
frankness.

'Indeed! Diane would be less gratified than I ought to be. And why, may I ask?'

'Diane was more caressing, but she had no truth.'

'Truth! that was what feu M. le Baron ever talked of; what Huguenots weary one with.'

'And the only thing worth seeking, the real pearl,' said Berenger, 'without which all else
is worthless.'

'Ah!' she said, 'who would have thought that soft, youthful face could be so severe! You would
never forgive a deceit?'

'Never,' he said, with the crystal hardness of youth; 'or rather I might forgive; I could never
esteem.'

'What a bare, rude world yours must be,' she said, shivering. 'And no weak ones in it! Only
the strong can dare to be true.'

'Truth is strength!' said Berenger. 'For example: I see yonder a face without bodily strength,
perhaps, but with perfect candour.'

'Ah! some Huguenot girl of Madame Catherine's, no doubt--from the depths of Languedoc, and
dressed like a fright.'

'No, no; the young girl behind the pale, yellow-haired lady.'

'Comment, Monsieur. Do you not yet know the young Queen?'

'But who is the young demoiselle!--she with the superb black eyes, and the ruby rose in her
black hair?'

'Take care, sir, do you not know I have still a right to be jealous?' she said, blushing, bridling,
and laughing.

But this pull on the cords made him the more resolved; he would not be turned from his purpose.
'Who is she?' he repeated; 'have I ever seen her before? I am sure I remember that innocent
look of espieglerie.'

'You may see it on any child's face fresh out of the convent; it does not last a month!' was
the still displeased, rather jealous answer. 'That little thing--I believe they call her Nid-de-Merle--she
has only just been brought from her nunnery to wait on the young Queen. Ah! your gaze was perilous,
it is bringing on you one of the jests of Madame Marguerite.'

With laughter and gaiety, a troop of gentlemen descended on M. de Ribaumont, and told him that
Madame Marguerite desired that he should be presented to her. The princess was standing by
her pale sister-in-law, Elizabeth of Austria, who looked grave and annoyed at the mischievous
mirth flashing in Marguerite's dark eyes.

'M. de Ribaumont,' said the latter, her very neck heaving with suppressed fun, 'I see I cannot
do you a greater favour than by giving you Mademoiselle de Nid-de-Merle for your partner.'

Berenger was covered with confusion to find that he had been guilty of such a fixed stare as
to bring all this upon the poor girl. He feared that his vague sense of recognition had made
his gaze more open than he knew, and he was really and deeply ashamed of this as his worst
act of provincial ill-breeding.

Poor little convent maid, with crimson cheeks, flashing eyes, panting bosom, and a neck evidently
aching with proud dignity and passion, she received his low bow with a sweeping curtsey, as
lofty as her little person would permit.

His cheeks burnt like fire, and he would have found words to apologize, but she cut him short
by saying, hastily and low, 'Not a word, Monsieur! Let us go through it at once. No one shall
make game of us.'

He hardly durst look at her again; but as he went through his own elaborate paces he knew that
the little creature opposite was swimming, bending, turning, bounding with the fluttering fierceness
of an angry little bird, and that the superb eyes were casting flashes on him that seemed to
carry him back to days of early boyhood.

Once he caught a mortified, pleading, wistful glance that made him feel as if he had inflicted
a cruel injury by his thoughtless gaze, and he resolved to plead the sense of recognition in
excuse; but no sooner was the performance over than she prevented all conversation by saying,
'Lead me back at once to the Queen, sir; she is about to retire.' They were already so near
that there was no time to say anything; he could only hold as lightly as possible the tiny
fingers that he felt burning and quivering in his hand, and then, after bringing her to the
side of the chair of state, he was forced to release her with the mere whisper of 'Pardon,
Mademoiselle;' and the request was not replied to, save by the additional stateliness of her
curtsey.

It was already late, and the party was breaking up; but his head and heart were still in a
whirl when he found himself seated in the ambassadorial coach, hearing Lady Walsingham's well-pleased
rehearsal of all the compliments she had received on the distinguished appearance of both her
young guests. Sidney, as the betrothed of her daughter, was property of her own; but she also
exulted in the praises of the young Lord de Ribaumont, as proving the excellence of the masters
whom she had recommended to remove the rustic clownishness of which he had been accused.

'Nay,' said Sir Francis; 'whoever called him too clownish for court spake with design.'

The brief sentence added to Berenger's confused sense of being in a mist of false play. Could
his kinsman be bent on keeping him from court? Could Narcisse be jealous of him? Mademoiselle
de Ribaumont was evidently inclined to seek him, and her cousin might easily think her lands
safer in his absence. He would have been willing to hold aloof as much as his uncle and cousin
could wish, save for an angry dislike to being duped and cajoled; and, moreover, a strong curiosity
to hear and see more of that little passionate bird, fresh from the convent cage. Her gesture
and her eyes irresistibly carried him back to old times, though whether to an angry blackbird
in the yew-tree alleys at Leurre, or to the eager face that had warned him to save his father,
he could not remember with any distinctness. At any rate, he was surprised to find himself
thinking so little in comparison about the splendid beauty and winning manners of his discarded
spouse, though he quite believed that, now her captive was beyond her grasp, she was disposed
to catch at him again, and try to retain him, or, as his titillated vanity might whisper, his
personal graces might make her regret the family resolution which she had obeyed.

CHAPTER VI. FOULLY COZENED

      I was the more deceived.--HAMLET

The unhappy Charles IX. had a disposition that in good hands might have achieved great nobleness;
and though cruelly bound and trained to evil, was no sooner allowed to follow its natural bent
than it reached out eagerly towards excellence. At this moment, it was his mother's policy
to appear to leave the ascendancy to the Huguenot party, and he was therefore allowed to contract
friendships which deceived the intended victims the more completely, because his admiration
and attachment were spontaneous and sincere. Philip Sidney's varied accomplishment and pure
lofty character greatly attracted the young King, who had leant on his arm conversing during
great part of the ball, and the next morning sent a royal messenger to invite the two young
gentlemen to a part at pall-mall in the Tuileries gardens.

Pall-mall was either croquet or its nearest relative, and was so much the fashion that games
were given in order to keep up political influence, perhaps, because the freedom of a garden
pastime among groves and bowers afforded opportunities for those seductive arts on which Queen
Catherine placed so much dependence. The formal gardens, with their squares of level turf and
clipped alleys, afforded excellent scope both for players and spectators, and numerous games
had been set on foot, from all of which, however, Berenger contrived to exclude himself, in
his restless determination to find out the little Demoiselle de Nid-de-Merle, or, at least,
to discover whether any intercourse in early youth accounted for his undefined sense of remembrance.

He interrogated the first disengaged person he could find, but it was only the young Abbe de
Mericour, who had been newly brought up from Dauphine by his elder brother to solicit a benefice,
and who knew nobody. To him ladies were only bright phantoms such as his books had taught him
to regard like the temptations of St. Anthony, but whom he actually saw treated with as free
admiration by the ecclesiastic as by the layman.

Suddenly a clamour of voices arose on the other side of the closely-clipped wall of limes by
which the two youths were walking. There were the clear tones of a young maiden expostulating
in indignant distress, and the bantering, indolent determination of a male annoyer.

'Hark!' exclaimed Berenger; 'this must be seen to.'

'Have a care,' returned Mericour; 'I have heard that a man needs look twice are meddling.'

Scarcely hearing, Berenger strode on as he had done at the last village wake, when he had rescued
Cis of the Down from the impertinence of a Dorchester scrivener. It was a like case, he saw,
when breaking through the arch of clipped limed he beheld the little Demoiselle de Nid-de-Merle,
driven into a corner and standing at bay, with glowing cheeks, flashing eyes, and hands clasped
over her breast, while a young man, dressed in the extreme of foppery, was assuring her that
she was the only lady who had not granted him a token--that he could not allow such pensionnaire
airs, and that now he had caught her he would have his revenge, and win her rose-coloured break-knot.
Another gentleman stood by, laughing, and keeping guard in the walk that led to the more frequented
part of the gardens.

'Hold!' thundered Berenger.

The assailant had just mastered the poor girl's hand, but she took advantage of his surprise
to wrench it away and gather herself up as for a spring, but the Abbe in dismay, the attendant
in anger, cried out, 'Stay--it is Monsieur.'

'Monsieur; be he who he may,' exclaimed Berenger, 'no honest man can see a lady insulted.'

'Are you mad? It is Monsieur the Duke of Anjou,' said Mericour, pouncing on his arm.

'Shall we have him to the guardhouse?' added the attendant, coming up on the other side; but
Henri de Valois waved them both back, and burst into a derisive laugh. 'No, no; do you not
see who it is? Monsieur the English Baron still holds the end of the halter. His sale is not
yet made. Come away, D'O, he will soon have enough on his hands without us. Farewell, fair
lady, another time you will be free of your jealous giant.'

So saying, the Duke of Anjou strolled off, feigning indifference and contempt, and scarcely
heeding that he had been traversed in one of the malicious adventures which he delighted to
recount in public before the discomfited victim herself, often with shameful exaggeration.

The girl clasped her hands over her brow with a gesture of dismay, and cried, 'Oh! if you have
only not touched your sword.'

'Let me have the honour of reconducting you, Mademoiselle,' said Berenger, offering his hand;
but after the first sigh of relief, a tempestuous access seized her. She seemed about to dash
away his hand, her bosom swelled with resentment, and with a voice striving for dignity, though
choked with strangled tears, she exclaimed, 'No, indeed! Had not M. le Baron forsaken me, I
had never been thus treated!' and her eyes flashed through their moisture.

'Eustacie! You are Eutacie!'

'Whom would you have me to be otherwise? I have the honour to wish M. le Baron a good morning.'

'Eustacie! Stay! Hear me! It concerns my honour. I see it is you--but whom have I seen? Who
was she?' he cried, half wild with dismay and confusion. 'Was it Diane?'

'You have seen and danced with Diane de Ribaumont,' answered Eustacie, still coldly; 'but what
of that? Let me go, Monsieur; you have cast me off already.'

'I! when all this has been of your own seeking?'

'Mine?' cried Eustacie, panting with the struggle between her dignity and her passionate tears.
'I meddled not. I heard that M. le Baron was gone to a strange land, and had written to break
off old ties.' Her face was in a flame, and her efforts for composure absolute pain.

'I!' again exclaimed Berenger. 'The first letter came from your uncle, declaring that it was
your wish!' And as her face changed rapidly, 'Then it was not true! He has not had your consent?'

'What! would I hold to one who despised me--who came here and never even asked to see this
hated spouse!'

I did! I entreated to see you. I would not sign the application till--Oh, there has been treachery!
And have they made you too sign it!'

When they showed me your name they were welcome to mine.'

Berenger struck his forehead with wrath and perplexity, then cried, joyfully, 'It will not
stand for moment. So foul a cheat can be at once exposed. Eutacie, you know--you understand,
that it was not you but Diane whom I saw and detested; and no wonder, when she was acting such
a cruel treason!'

'Oh no, Diane would never so treat me,' cried Eustacie. 'I see how it was! You did not know
that my father was latterly called Marquis de Nid-de-Merle, and when they brought me here,
they WOULD call me after him: they said a maid of honour must be Demoiselle, and my uncle said
there was only one way in which I could remain Madame de Ribaumont! And the name must have
deceived you. Thou wast always a great dull boy,' she added, with a sudden assumption of childish
intimacy that annihilated the nine years since their parting.

'Had I seen thee, I had not mistaken for an instant. This little face stirred my heart; hers
repelled me. And she deceived me wittingly, Eustacie, for I asked after her by name.'

'Ah, she wished to spare my embarrassment. And then her brother must have dealt with her.'

'I see,' exclaimed Berenger, 'I am to be palmed off thus that thou mayest be reserved for Narcisse.
Tell me, Eustacie, wast thou willing?'

'I hate Narcisse!' she cried. 'But oh, I am lingering too long. Monsieur will make some hateful
tale! I never fell into his way before, my Queen and Madame la Comtesse are so careful. Only
to-day, as I was attending her alone, the King came and gave her his arm, and I had to drop
behind. I must find her; I shall be missed,' she added, in sudden alarm. 'Oh, what will they say?'

'No blame for being with thy husband,' he answered, clasping her hand. 'Thou art mine henceforth.
I will soon cut our way out of the web thy treacherous kindred have woven. Meantime---'

'Hush! There are voices,' cried Eustacie in terror, and, guided by something he could not discern,
she fled with the swiftness of a bird down the alley. Following, with the utmost speed that
might not bear the appearance of pursuit, he found that on coming to the turn she had moderated
her pace, and was more tranquilly advancing to a bevy of ladies, who sat perched on the stone
steps like great butterflies sunning themselves, watching the game, and receiving the attentions
of their cavaliers. He saw her absorbed into the group, and then began to prowl round it, in
the alleys, in a tumult of amazement and indignation. He had been shamefully deceived and cheated,
and justice he would have! He had been deprived of a thing of his own, and he would assert
his right. He had been made to injure and disown the creature he was bound to protect, and
he must console her and compensate to her, were it only to redeem his honour. He never even
thought whether he loved her; he merely felt furious at the wrong he had suffered and been
made to commit, and hotly bent on recovering what belonged to him. He might even have plunged
down among the ladies and claimed her as his wife, if the young Abbe de Mericour, who was two
years older than he, and far less of a boy for his years, had not joined him in his agitated
walk. He then learnt that all the court knew that the daughter of the late Marquis de Nid-de-Merle,
Comte de Ribaumont, was called by his chief title, but that her marriage to himself had been
forgotten by some and unknown to others, and thus that the first error between the cousins
had not been wonderful in a stranger, since the Chevalier's daughter had always been Mdlle.
de Ribaumont. The error once made, Berenger's distaste to Diane had been so convenient that
it had been carefully encouraged, and the desire to keep him at a distance from court and throw
him into the background was accounted for. The Abbe was almost as indignant as Berenger, and
assured him both of his sympathy and his discretion.

'I see no need for discretion,' said Berenger. 'I shall claim my wife in the face of the sun.'

'Take counsel first, I entreat,' exclaimed Mericour. 'The Ribaumonts have much influence with
the Guise family, and now you have offended Monsieur.'

'Ah! Where are those traitorous kinsmen?' cried Berenger.

'Fortunately all are gone on an expedition with the Queen-mother. You will have time to think.
I have heard my brother say no one ever prospered who offended the meanest follower of the
house of Lorraine.'

'I do not want prosperity, I only want my wife. I hope I shall never see Paris and its deceivers
again.'

'Ah! But is it true that you have applied to have the marriage annulled at Rome?'

'We were both shamefully deceivers. That can be nothing.'

'A decree of his Holiness: you a Huguenot; she an heiress. All is against you. My friend, be
cautions, exclaimed the young ecclesiastic, alarmed by his passionate gestures. 'To break forth
now and be accused of brawling in the palace precincts would be fatal--fatal--most fatal!'

'I am as calm as possible,' returned Berenger. 'I mean to act most reasonably. I shall stand
before the King and tell him openly how I have been tamperes with, demanding my wife before
the whole court.'

'Long before you could get so far the ushers would have dragged you away for brawling, or for
maligning an honour-able gentlemen. You would have to finish your speech in the Bastille, and
it would be well if even your English friends could get you out alive.'

'Why, what a place is this!' began Berenger; but again Mericour entreated him to curb himself;
and his English education had taught him to credit the house of Guide with so much mysterious
power and wickedness, that he allowed himself to be silenced, and promised to take no open
measures till he had consulted the Ambassador.

'He could not obtain another glimpse of Eustacie, and the hours passed tardily till the break
up of the party. Charles could scarcely release Sidney from his side, and only let him go on
condition that he should join the next day in an expedition to the hunting chateau of Montpipeau,
to which the King seemed to look forward as a great holiday and breathing time.

When at length the two youths did return, Sir Francis Walsingham was completely surprised by
the usually tractable, well-behaved stripling, whose praises he had been writing to his old
friend, bursting in on him with the outcry, 'Sir, sir, I entreat your counsel! I have been
foully cozened.'

'Of how much?' said Sir Francis, in a tone of reprobation.

'Of my wife. Of mine honour. Sir, your Excellency, I crave pardon, if I spoke too hotly,' said
Berenger, collecting himself; 'but it is enough to drive a man to frenzy.'

'Sit down, my Lord de Ribaumont. Take breath, and let me know what is this coil. What hath
thus moved him, Mr. Sidney?'

'It is as he says, sir,' replied Sidney, who had beard all as they returned; 'he has been greatly
wronged. The Chevalier de Ribaumont not only writ to propose the separation without the lady's
knowledge, but imposed his own daughter on our friend as the wife he had not seen since infancy.'

'There, sir,' broke forth Berenger; 'surely if I claim mine own in the face of day, no man
can withhold her from me!'

'Hold!' said Sir Francis. 'What mean this passion, young sir? Methought you came hither convinced
that both the religion and the habits in which the young lady had been bred up rendered your
infantine contract most unsuitable. What hath fallen out to make this change in your mind?'

'That I was cheated, sir. The lady who palmed herself off on me as my wife was a mere impostor,
the Chevalier's own daughter!'

'That may be; but what known you of this other lady? Has she been bred up in faith or manners
such as your parents would have your wife?'

'She is my wife,' reiterated Berenger. 'My faith is plighted to her. That is enough for me.'

Sir Francis made a gesture of despair. 'He has seen her, I suppose,' said he to Sidney.

'Yes truly, sir,' answered Berenger; 'and found that she had been as greatly deceived as myself.'

'Then mutual consent is wanting,' said the statesman, gravely musing.

'That is even as I say,' began Berenger, but Walsingham help up his hand, and desired that
he would make his full statement in the presence of his tutor. Then sounding a little whistle,
the Ambassador despatched a page to request the attendance of Mr. Adderley, and recommended
young Ribaumont in the meantime to compose himself.

Used to being under authority as Berenger was, the somewhat severe tone did much to allay his
excitement, and remind him that right and reason were so entirely on his side, that he had
only to be cool and rational to make them prevail. He was thus able to give a collected and
coherent account of his discovery that the part of his wife had been assumed by her cousin
Diane, and that the signature of both the young pair to the application to the Pope had been
obtained on false pretences. That he had, as Sidney said, been foully cozened, in both senses
of the word, was as clear as daylight; but he was much angered and disappointed to find that
neither the Ambassador nor his tutor could see that Eustacie's worthiness was proved by the
iniquity of her relation, or that any one of the weighty reasons for the expediency of dissolving
the marriage was remove. The whole affair had been in such good train a little before, that
Mr. Adderley was much distressed that it should thus have been crossed, and thought the new
phase of affairs would be far from acceptable at Combe Walwyn.

'Whatever is just and honourable must be acceptable to my grandfather,' said Berenger.

'Even so,' said Walsingham; 'but it were well to consider whether justice and honour require
you to overthrow the purpose wherewith he sent you hither.'

'Surely, sir, justice and require me to fulfil a contract to which the other party is constant,'
said Berenger, feeling very wise and prudent for calling that wistful, indignant creature the
other party.

'That is also true,' said the Ambassador, 'provided she be constant; but you own that she signed
the requisition for the dissolution.'

'She did so, but under the same deception as myself, and further mortified and aggrieved at
my seeming faithlessness.'

'So it may easily be represented,' muttered Walsingham.

'How, sir?' cried Berenger, impetuously; 'do you doubt her truth?'

'Heaven forefend,' said Sir Francis, 'that I should discuss any fair lady's sincerity! The
question is how far you are bound. Have I understood you that you are veritably wedded, not
by a mere contract of espousal?'

'Berenger could produce no documents, for they had been left at Chateau Leurre, and on his
father's death the Chevalier had claimed the custody of them; but he remembered enough of the
ceremonial to prove that the wedding had been a veritable one, and that only the papal intervention
could annul it.

Indeed an Englishman, going by English law, would own no power in the Pope, nor any one on
earth, to sever the sacred tie of wedlock; but French courts of law would probably ignore the
mode of application, and would certainly endeavour to separate between a Catholic and a heretic.

'I am English, sir, in heart and faith,' said Berenger, earnestly. 'Look upon me as such, and
tell me, am I married or single at this moment?'

'Married assuredly. More's the pity,' said Sir Francis.

'And no law of God or man divides us without our own consent.' There was no denying that the
mutual consent of the young pair at their present age was all that was wanting to complete
the inviolability of their marriage contract.

Berenger was indeed only eighteen, and Eustacie more than a year younger, but there was nothing
in their present age to invalidate their marriage, for persons of their rank were usually wedded
quite as young or younger. Walsingham was only concerned at his old friend's disappointment,
and at the danger of the young man running headlong into a connection probably no more suitable
than that with Diane de Ribaumont would have been. But it was not convenient to argue against
the expediency of a man's loving his own wife; and when Berenger boldly declared he was not
talking of love but of justice, it was only possible to insist that he should pause and see
where true justice lay.

And thus the much-perplexed Ambassador broke up the conference with his hot and angry young guest.

'And Mistress Lucy---?' sighed Mr. Adderley, in rather an inapropos fashion it must be owned;
but then he had been fretted beyond endurance by his pupil striding up and down his room, reviling
Diane, and describing Eustacie, while he was trying to write these uncomfortable tidings to
Lord Walwyn.

'Lucy! What makes you bring her up to me?' exclaimed Berenger. 'Little Dolly would be as much
to the purpose!'

'Only, sir, no resident at Hurst Walwyn could fail to know that has been planned and desired.'

'Pshaw!' cries Berenger; 'have you not heard that it was a mere figment, and that I could scarce
have wedded Lucy safely, even had this matter gone as you wish? This is the luckiest chance
that could have befallen her.'

'That may be,' said Mr. Adderley; 'I wish she may think so--sweet young lady!'

'I tell you, Mr. Adderley, you should know better! Lucy has more sense. My aunt, whom she follows
more than any other creature, ever silenced the very sport or semblance of love passages between
us even as children, by calling them unseemly in one wedded as I am. Brother and sister we
have ever been, and have loved as such--ay, and shall! I know of late some schemes have crossed
my mother's mind---'

'Yea, and that of others.'

'But they have not ruffled Lucy's quiet nature--trust me! And for the rest? What doth she need
me in comparison of this poor child? She--like a bit of her own gray lavender in the shadiest
nook of the walled garden, tranquil there--sure not to be taken there, save to company with
fine linen in some trim scented coffer, whilst this fresh glowing rosebud has grown up pure
and precious in the very midst of the foulest corruption Christendom can show, and if I snatch
her not from it, I, the innocence and sweetness, what is to be her fate? The very pity of a
Christian, the honour of a gentleman, would urge me, even if it were not my most urgent duty!'

'Mr. Adderley argued no more. When Berenger came to his duty in the matter he was invincible,
and moreover all the more provoking, because he mentioned it with a sort of fiery sound of
relish, and looked so very boyish all the time. Poor Mr. Adderley!' feeling as if his trust
were betrayed, loathing the very idea of a French court lady, saw that his pupil had been allured
into a headlong passion to his own misery, and that of all whose hopes were set on him, yet
preached to by this stripling scholar about duties and sacred obligations! Well might he rue
the day he ever set foot in Paris.

Then, to his further annoyance, came a royal messenger to invite the Baron de Ribaumont to
join the expedition to Montpipeau. Of course he must go, and his tutor must be left behind,
and who could tell into what mischief he might not be tempted!

Here, however, Sidney gave the poor chaplain some comfort. He believed that no ladies were
to be of the party, and that the gentlemen were chiefly of the King's new friends among the
Huguenots, such as Coligny, his son-in-law Teligny, Rochefoucauld, and the like, among whom
the young gentleman could not fall into any very serious harm, and might very possibly be influenced
against a Roman Catholic wife. At any rate, he would be out of the way, and unable to take
any dangerous steps.

This same consideration so annoyed Berenger that he would have declined the invitation, if
royal invitations could have been declined. And in the morning, before setting out, he dressed
himself point device, and with Osbert behind him marched down to the Croix de Larraine, to
call upon the Chevalier de Ribaumont. He had a very fine speech at his tongue's end when he
set out, but a good deal of it had evaporated when he reached the hotel, and perhaps he was
not very sorry not to find the old gentleman within.

On his return, he indited a note to the Chevalier, explaining that he had now seen his wife,
Madame la Baronne de Ribaumont, and had come to an understanding with her, by which he found
that it was under a mistake that the application to the Pope had been signed, and that they
should, therefore, follow it up with a protest, and act as if no such letter had been sent.

Berenger showed this letter to Walsingham, who, though much concerned, could not forbid his
sending it. 'Poor lad,' he said to the tutor; ''tis an excellently writ billet for one so young.
I would it were in a wiser cause. But he has fairly the bit between his teeth, and there is
no checking him while he has this show of right on his side.'

And poor Mr. Adderley could only beseech Mr. Sidney to take care of him.

CHAPTER VII. THE QUEEN'S PASTORAL

     Either very gravely gay,
     Or very gaily grave,
            --W. M. PRAED

Montpipeau, though in the present day a suburb of Paris, was in the sixteenth century far enough
from the city to form a sylvan retreat, where Charles IX, could snatch a short respite from
the intrigues of his court, under pretext of enjoying his favourite sport. Surrounded with
his favoured associates of the Huguenot party, he seemed to breathe a purer atmosphere, and
to yield himself up to enjoyment greater than perhaps his sad life had ever known.

He rode among his gentlemen, and the brilliant cavalcade passed through poplar-shaded roads,
clattered through villages, and threaded their way through bits of forest still left for the
royal chase. The people thronged out of their houses, and shouted not only 'Vive le Roy,' but
'Vive l'Amiral,' and more than once the cry was added, 'Spanish war, or civil war!' The heart
of France was, if not with the Reformed, at least against Spain and the Lorrainers, and Sidney
perceived, from the conversation of the gentlemen round him, that the present expedition had
been devised less for the sake of the sport, than to enable the King to take measures for emancipating
himself from the thraldom of his mother, and engaging the country in a war against Philip II.
Sidney listened, but Berenger chafed, feeling only that he was being further carried out of
reach of his explanation with his kindred. And thus they arrived at Montpipeau, a tower, tall
and narrow, like all French designs, but expanded on the ground floor by wooden buildings capable
of containing the numerous train of a royal hunter, and surrounded by an extent of waste land,
without fine trees, though with covert for deer, boars, and wolves sufficient for sport to
royalty and death to peasantry. Charles seemed to sit more erect in his saddle, and to drink
in joy with every breath of the thyme-scented breeze, from the moment his horse bounded on
the hollow-sounding turf; and when he leapt to the ground, with the elastic spring of youth,
he held out his hands to Sidney and to Teligny, crying 'Welcome, my friends. Here I am indeed
a king!'

It was a lovely summer evening, early in August, and Charles bade the supper to be spread under
the elms that shaded a green lawn in front of the chateau. Etiquette was here so far relaxed
as to permit the sovereign to dine with his suite, and tables, chairs, and benches were brought
out, drapery festooned in the trees to keep off sun and wind, the King lay down in the fern
and let his happy dogs fondle him, and as a hers-girl passed along a vista in the distance,
driving her goats before her, Philip Sidney marvelled whether it was not even thus in Arcadia.

Presently there was a sound of horses trampling, wheels moving, a party of gaily gilded archers
of the guard jingled up, and in their midst was a coach. Berenger's heart seemed to leap at
once to his lips, as a glimpse of ruffs, hats, and silks dawned on him through the windows.

The king rose from his lair among the fern, the Admiral stood forward, all heads were bared,
and from the coach-door alighted the young Queen; no longer pale, subdued, and indifferent,
but with a face shining with girlish delight, as she held out her hand to the Admiral. 'Ah!
This is well, this is beautiful,' she exclaimed; 'it is like our happy chases in the Tyrol.
Ah, Sire!' to the King, 'how I thank you for letting me be with you.'

After her Majesty descended her gentleman-usher. Then came the lady-in-waiting, Madame de Sauve,
the wife of the state secretary in attendance on Charles, and a triumphant, coquettish beauty,
than a fat, good-humoured Austrian dame, always called Madame la Comtesse, because her German
name was unpronounceable, and without whom the Queen never stirred, and lastly a little figure,
rounded yet slight, slender yet soft and plump, with a kitten-like alertness and grace of motion,
as she sprang out, collected the Queen's properties of fan, kerchief, pouncet-box, mantle,
&c., and disappeared in to the chateau, without Berenger's being sure of anything but that
her little black hat had a rose-coloured feather in it.

The Queen was led to a chair placed under one of the largest trees, and there Charles presented
to her such of his gentlemen as she was not yet acquainted with, the Baron de Ribaumont among
the rest.

'I have heard of M. de Ribaumont,' she said, in a tone that made the colour mantle in his fair
cheek; and with a sign of her hand she detained him at her side till the King had strolled
away with Madame la Sauve, and no one remained near but her German countess. Then changing
her tone to one of confidence, which the high-bred homeliness of her Austrian manner rendered
inexpressibly engaging, she said, 'I must apologize, Monsieur, for the giddiness of my sister-in-law,
which I fear caused you some embarrassment.'

'Ah, Madame,' said Berenger, kneeling on one knee as she addressed him, and his heart bounding
with wild, undefined hope, 'I cannot be grateful enough. It was that which led to my being
undeceived.'

'It was true, then, that you were mistaken?' said the Queen.

'Treacherously deceived, Madame, by those whose interest it is to keep us apart,' said Berenger,
colouring with indignation; 'they imposed my other cousin on me as my wife, and caused her
to think me cruelly neglectful.'

'I know,' said the Queen. 'Yet Mdlle. de Ribaumont is far more admired than my little blackbird.'

'That may be, Madame, but not by me.'

'Yet is it true that you came to break off the marriage?'

'Yes, Madame,' said Berenger, honestly, 'but I had not seen her.'

'And now?' said the Queen, smiling.

'I would rather die than give her up,' said Berenger. 'Oh, Madame, help us of your grace. Every
one is trying to part us, every one is arguing against us, but she is my own true wedded wife,
and if you will but give her to me, all will be well.'

'I like you, M. de Ribaumont,' said the Queen, looking him full in the face. 'You are like
our own honest Germans at my home, and I think you mean all you say. I had much rather my dear
little Nid de Merle were with you than left here, to become like all the others. She is a good
little Liegling,--how do you call it in French? She has told me all, and truly I would help
you with all my heart, but it is not as if I were the Queen-mother. You must have recourse
to the King, who loves you well, and at my request included you in the hunting-party.'

Berenger could only kiss her hand in token of earnest thanks before the repast was announced,
and the King came to lead her to the table spread beneath the trees. The whole party supped
together, but Berenger could have only a distant view of his little wife, looking very demure
and grave by the side of the Admiral.

But when the meal was ended, there was a loitering in the woodland paths, amid healthy openings
or glades trimmed into discreet wildness fit for royal rusticity; the sun set in parting glory
on one horizon, the moon rising in crimson majesty on the other. A musician at intervals touched
the guitar, and sang Spanish or Italian airs, whose soft or quaint melody came dreamily through
the trees. Then it was that with beating heart Berenger stole up to the maiden as she stood
behind the Queen, and ventured to whisper her name and clasp her hand.

She turned, their eyes met, and she let him lead her apart into the wood. It was not like a
lover's tryst, it was more like the continuation of their old childish terms, only that he
treated her as a thing of his own, that he was bound to secure and to guard, and she received
him as her own lawful but tardy protector, to be treated with perfect reliance but with a certain
playful resentment.

'You will not run away from me now,' he said, making full prize of her hand and arm.

'Ah! is not she the dearest and best of queens?' and the large eyes were lifted up to him in
such frank seeking of sympathy that he could see into the depths of their clear darkness.

'It is her doing then. Though, Eustacie, when I knew the truth, not flood nor fire should keep
me long from you, my heart, my love, my wife.'

'What! wife in spite of those villainous letter?' she said, trying to pout.

'Wife for ever, inseparably! Only you must be able to swear that you knew nothing of the one
that brought me here.'

'Poor me! No, indeed! There was Celine carried off at fourteen, Madame de Blanchet a bride
at fifteen; all marrying hither and thither; and I--' she pulled a face irresistibly droll--'I
growing old enough to dress St. Catherine's hair, and wondering where was M. le Baron.'

'They thought me too young,' said Berenger, 'to take on me the cares of life.'

'So they were left to me?'

'Cares! What cares have you but finding the Queen's fan?'

'Little you know!' she said, half contemptuous, half mortified.

'Nay, pardon me, ma mie. Who has troubled you?'

'Ah! you would call it nothing to be beset by Narcisse; to be told one's husband is faithless,
till one half believes it; to be looked at by ugly eyes; to be liable to be teased any day
by Monsieur, or worse, by that mocking ape, M. d'Alecon, and to have nobody who can or will
hinder it.'

She was sobbing by this time, and he exclaimed, 'Ah, would that I could revenge all! Never,
never shall it be again! What blessed grace has guarded you through all?'

'Did I not belong to you?' she said exultingly. 'And had not Sister Monique, yes, and M. le
Baron, striven hard to make me good? Ah, how kind he was!'

'My father? Yes, Eustacie, he loved you to the last. He bade me, on his deathbed, give you
his own Book of Psalms, and tell you he had always loved and prayed for you.'

'Ah! his Psalms! I shall love them! Even at Bellaise, when first we came there, we used to
sing them, but the Mother Abbess went out visiting, and when she came back she said they were
heretical. And Soeur Monique would not let me say the texts he taught me, but I WOULD not forget
them. I say them often in my heart.'

'Then,' he cried joyfully, 'you will willingly embrace my religion?'

'Be a Huguenot?' she said distastefully.

'I am not precisely a Huguenot; I do not love them,' he answered hastily; 'but all shall be
made clear to you at my home in England.'

'England!' she said. 'Must we live in England? Away from every one?'

'Ah, they will love so much! I shall make you so happy there,' he answered. 'There you will
see what it is to be true and trustworthy.'

'I had rather live at Chateau Leurre, or my own Nid de Merle,' she replied. 'There I should
see Soeur Monique, and my aunt, the Abbess, and we would have the peasants to dance in the
castle court. Oh! if you could but see the orchards at Le Bocage, you would never want to go
away. And we could come now and then to see my dear Queen.

'I am glad at least you would not live at court.'

'Oh, no, I have been more unhappy here than ever I knew could be borne.'

And a very few words from him drew out all that had happened to her since they parted. Her
father had sent her to Bellaise, a convent founded by the first of the Angevin branch, which
was presided over by his sister, and where Diane was also educated. The good sister Monique
had been mistress of the pensionnaires, and had evidently taken much pains to keep her charge
innocent and devout. Diane had been taken to court about two years before, but Eustacie had
remained at the convent till some three months since, when she had been appointed maid of honour
to the recently-married Queen; and her uncle had fetched her from Anjou, and had informed her
at the same time that her young husband had turned Englishman and heretic, and that after a
few formalities had been complied with, she would become the wife of her cousin Narcisse. Now
there was no person whom she so much dreaded as Narcisse, and when Berenger spoke of him as
a feeble fop, she shuddered as though she knew him to have something of the tiger.

'Do you remember Benoit?' she said; 'poor Benoit, who came to Normandy as my laquais? When
I went back to Anjou he married a girl from Leurre, and went to aid his father at the farm.
The poor fellow had imbibed the Baron's doctrine--he spread it. It was reported that there
was a nest of Huguenots on the estate. My cousin came to break it up with his gens d'armes
O Berenger, he would hear no entreaties, he had no mercy; he let them assemble on Sunday, that
they might be all together. He fired the house; shot down those who escaped; if a prisoner
were made, gave him up to the Bishop's Court. Benoit, my poor good Benoit, who used to lead
my palfrey, was first wounded, then tried, and burnt--burnt in the PLACE at Lucon! I heard
Narcisse laugh--laugh as he talked of the cries of the poor creatures in the conventicler.
My own people, who loved me! I was but twelve years old, but even then the wretch would pay
me a half-mocking courtesy, as one destined to him; and the more I disdained him and said I
belonged to you, the more both he and my aunt, the Abbess, smiled, as though they had their
bird in a cage; but they left me in peace till my uncle brought me to court, and then all began
again: and when they said you gave me up, I had no hope, not even of a convent. But ah, it
is all over now, and I am so happy! You are grown so gentle and so beautiful, Berenger, and
so much taller than I ever figured you to myself, and you look as if you could take me up in
your arms, and let no harm happen to me.'

'Never, never shall it!' said Berenger, felling all manhood, strength, and love stir within
him, and growing many years in heart in that happy moment. 'My sweet little faithful wife,
never fear again now you are mine.'

Alas! poor children. They were a good way from the security they had begun to fancy for themselves.
Early the next morning, Berenger went in his straightforward way to the King, thanked him,
and requested his sanction for at once producing themselves to the court as Monsieur le Baron
and Madame la Baronne de Ribaumont.

At this Charles swore a great oath, as one in perplexity, and bade him not go so fast.

'See here,' said he, with the rude expletives only too habitual with him; 'she is a pretty
little girl, and she and her lands are much better with an honest man like you than with that
pendard of a cousin; but you see he is bent on having her, and he belongs to a cut-throat crew
that halt at nothing. I would not answer for your life, if you tempted him so strongly to rid
himself of you.'

'My own sword, Sire, can guard my life.'

'Plague upon your sword! What does the foolish youth think it would do against half-a-dozen
poniards and pistols in a lane black as hell's mouth?'

The foolish young WAS thinking how could a king so full of fiery words and strange oaths bear
to make such an avowal respecting his own capital and his own courtiers. All he could do was
to bow and reply, 'Nevertheless, Sire, at whatever risk, I cannot relinquish my wife; I would
take her at one to the Ambassador's.'

'How, sir!' interrupted Charles, haughtily and angrily, 'if you forget that you are a French
nobleman still, I should remember it! The Ambassador may protect his own countrymen-none else.'

'I entreat your Majesty's pardon,' said Berenger, anxious to retract his false step. 'It was
your goodness and the gracious Queen's that made me hope for your sanction.'

'All the sanction Charles de Valois can give is yours, and welcome,' said the King, hastily.
'The sanction of the King of France is another matter! To say the truth, I see no way out of
the affair but an elopement.' 'Sire!' exclaimed the astonished Berenger, whose strictly-disciplined
education had little prepared him for such counsel.

'Look you! if I made you known as a wedded pair, the Chevalier and his son would not only assassinate
you, but down on me would come my brother, and my mother, and M. de Guise and all their crew,
veritably for giving the prize out of the mouth of their satellite, but nominally for disregarding
the Pope, favouring a heretical marriage, and I know not what, but, as things go here, I should
assuredly get the worst of it; and if you made safely off with your prize, no one could gainsay
you--I need know nothing about it--and lady and lands would be your without dispute. You might
ride off from the skirts of the forest; I would lead the hunt that way, and the three days'
riding would bring you to Normady, for you had best cross to England immediately. When she
is one there, owned by your kindred, Monsieur le cousin may gnash his teeth as he will, he
must make the best of it for the sake of the honour of his house, and you can safely come back
and raise her people and yours to follow the Oriflamme when it takes the field against Spain.
What! you are still discontented? Speak out! Plain speaking is a treat not often reserved for me.'

'Sire, I am most grateful for your kindness, but I should greatly prefer going straightforward.'

'Peste! Well is it said that a blundering Englishman goes always right before him! There, then!
As your King on the one hand, as the friend who has brought you and your wife together, sir,
it is my command that you do not compromise me and embroil greater matters than you can understand
by publicly claiming this girl. Privately I will aid you to the best of my ability; publicly,
I command you, for my sake, if you heed not your own, to be silent!'

Berenger sought out Sidney, who smiled at his surprise.

'Do you not see,' he said, 'that the King is your friend, and would be very glad to save the
lady's lands from the Guisards, but that he cannot say so; he can only befriend a Huguenot
by stealth.'

'I would not be such a king for worlds!'

However, Eustacie was enchanted. It was like a prince and princess in Mere Perinne's fairy
tales. Could they go like a shepherd and shepherdess? She had no fears-no scruples. Would she
not be with her husband? It was the most charming frolic in the world. So the King seemed to
think it, though he was determined to call it all the Queen's doing--the first intrigue of
her own, making her like all the rest of us--the Queen's little comedy. He undertook to lead
the chase as far as possible in the direction of Normandy, when the young pair might ride on
to an inn, meet fresh horses, and proceed to Chateau Leurre, and thence to England. He would
himself provide a safe-conduct, which, as Berenger suggested, would represent them as a young
Englishman taking home his young wife. Eustacie wanted at least to masquerade as an Englishwoman,
and played off all the fragments of the language she had caught as a child, but Berenger only
laughed at her, and said they just fitted the French bride. It was very pretty to laugh at
Eustacie; she made such a droll pretence at pouting with her rosebud lips, and her merry velvety
eyes belied them so drolly.

Such was to be the Queen's pastoral; but when Elisabeth found the responsibility so entirely
thrown on her, she began to look grave and frightened. It was no doubt much more than she had
intended when she brought about the meeting between the young people, and the King, who had
planned the elopement, seemed still resolved to make all appear her affair. She looked all
day more like the grave, spiritless being she was at court than like the bright young rural
queen of the evening before, and she was long in her little oratory chapel in the evening.
Berenger, who was waiting in the hall with the other Huguenot gentlemen, thought her devotions
interminable since they delayed all her ladies. At length, however, a page came up to him,
and said in a low voice, 'The Queen desires the presence of M. le Baron de Ribaumont.'

He followed the messenger, and found himself in the little chapel, before a gaily-adorned altar,
and numerous little shrines and niches round. Sidney would have dreaded a surreptitious attempt
to make him conform, but Berenger had no notion of such perils,--he only saw that Eustacie
was standing by the Queen's chair, and a kindly-looking Austrian priest, the Queen's confessor,
held a book in his hand.

The Queen came to meet him. 'For my sake,' she said, with all her sweetness, 'to ease my mind,
I should like to see my little Eustacie made entirely your own ere you go. Father Meinhard
tells me it is safer that, when the parties were under twelve years old, the troth should be
again exchanged. No other ceremony is needed.'

'I desire nothing but to have her made indissolubly my own,' said Berenger, bowing.

'And the King permits,' added Elisabeth.

The King growled out, 'It is your comedy, Madame; I meddle not.'

The Austrian priest had no common language with Berenger but Latin. He asked a few questions,
and on hearing the answers, declared that the sacrament of marriage had been complete, but
that--as was often done in such cases--he would once more hear the troth-plight of the young
pair. The brief formula was therefore at once exchanged--the King, when the Queen looked entreatingly
at him, rousing himself to make the bride over to Berenger. As soon as the vows had been made,
in the briefest manner, the King broke in boisterously: 'There, you are twice marred, to please
Madame there; but hold your tongues all of you about this scene in the play.'

Then almost pushing Eustacie over to Berenger, he added, 'There she is! Take your wife, sir;
but mind, she was as much yours before as she is now.'

But for all Berenger had said about 'his wife,' it was only now that he really FELT her his
own, and became husband rather than lover-man instead of boy. She was entirely his own now,
and he only desired to be away with her; but some days' delay was necessary. A chase on the
scale of the one that was to favour their evasion could not be got up without some notice;
and, moreover, it was necessary to procure money, for neither Sidney nor Ribaumont had more
than enough with them for the needful liberalities to the King's servants and huntsmen. Indeed
Berenger had spent all that remained in his purse upon the wares of an Italian pedlar whom
he and Eustacie met in the woods, and whose gloves 'as sweet as fragrant posies,' fans, scent-boxes,
pocket mirrors, Genoa wire, Venice chains, and other toys, afforded him the mean of making
up the gifts that he wished to carry home to his sisters; and Eustacie's counsel was merrily
given in the choice. And when the vendor began with a meaning smile to recommend to the young
pair themselves a little silver-netted heart as a love-token, and it turned out that all Berenger's
money was gone, so that it could not be bought without giving up the scented casket destined
for Lucy, Eustacie turned with her sweetest, proudest smile, and said, 'No, no; I will not
have it; what do we two want with love-tokens now?'

Sidney had taken the youthful and romantic view of the case, and considered himself to be taking
the best possible bare of is young friend, by enabling him to deal honourably with so charming
a little wife as Eustacie. Ambassador and tutor would doubtless be very angry; but Sidney could
judge for himself of the lady, and he therefore threw himself into her interests, and sent
his servant back to Paris to procure the necessary sum for the journey of Master Henry Berenger
and Mistress Mary, his wife. Sidney was, on his return alone to Paris, to explain all to the
elders, and pacify them as best he could; and his servant was already the bearer of a letter
from Berenger that was to be sent at once to England with Walsingham's dispatches, to prepare
Lord Walwyn for the arrival of the runaways. The poor boy laboured to be impressively calm
and reasonable in his explanation of the misrepresentation, and of his strong grounds for assuming
his rights, with his persuasion that his wife would readily join the English church--a consideration
that he knew would greatly smooth the way for her. Indeed, his own position was impregnable:
nobody could blame him for taking his own wife to himself, and he was so sure of her charms,
that he troubled himself very little about the impression she might make on his kindred. If
they loved her, it was all right; if not, he could take her back to his own castle, and win
fame and honour under the banner of France in the Low Countries. As the Lucy Thistlewood, she
was far too discreet to feel any disappointment or displeasure; or if she should, it was her
own fault and that of his mother, for all her life she had known him to be married. So he finished
his letter with a message that the bells should be ready to ring, and that when Philip heard
three guns fired on the coast, he might light the big beacon pile above the Combe.

Meantime 'the Queen's Pastoral' was much relished by all the spectators. The state of things
was only avowed to Charles, Elisabeth, and Philip Sidney, and even the last did not know of
the renewed troth which the King chose to treat as such a secret; but no one had any doubt
of the mutual relations of M. de Ribaumont and Mdlle. de Nid de Merle, and their dream of bliss
was like a pastoral for the special diversion of the holiday of Montpipeau. The transparency
of their indifference in company, their meeting eyes, their trysts with the secrecy of an ostrich,
were the subjects of constant amusement to the elders, more especially as the shyness, blushes,
and caution were much more on the side of the young husband than on that of the lady. Fresh
from her convent, simple with childishness and innocence, it was to her only the natural completion
of her life to be altogether Berenger's, and the brief concealment of their full union added
a certain romantic enchantment, which added to her exultation in her victory over her cruel
kindred. She had been upon her own mind, poor child, for her few weeks of court life. She had
been upon her own mind, poor child, for her few weeks of court life, but not long enough to
make her grow older, though just so long as to make the sense of her having her own protector
with her doubly precious. He, on the other hand, though full of happiness, did also feel constantly
deepening on him the sense of the charge and responsibility he had assumed, hardly knowing
how. The more dear Eustacie became to him, the more she rested on him and became entirely his,
the more his boyhood and INSOUCIANCE drifted away behind him; and while he could hardly bear
to heave his darling a moment out of his sight, the less he could endure any remark or jest
upon his affection for her. His home had been a refined one, where Cecile's convent purity
seemed to diffuse an atmosphere of modest reserve such as did not prevail in the court of the
Maiden Queen herself, and the lad of eighteen had not seem enough of the outer world to have
rubbed off any of that grace. His seniority to his little wife seemed to show itself chiefly
in his being put out of countenance for her, when she was too innocent and too proud of her
secret matronhood to understand or resent the wit.

Little did he know that this was the ballet-like interlude in a great and terrible tragedy,
whose first act was being played out on the stage where they schemed and sported, like their
own little drama, which was all the world to them, and noting to the others. Berenger knew
indeed that the Admiral was greatly rejoiced that the Nid de Merle estates should go into Protestant
hands, and that the old gentleman lost no opportunity of impressing on him that they were a
heavy trust, to be used for the benefit of 'the Religion,' and for the support of the King
in his better mind. But it may be feared that he did not give a very attentive ear to all this.
He did not like to think of those estates; he would gladly have left them all the Narcisse,
so that he might have their lady, and though quite willing to win his spurs under Charles and
Coligny against the Spaniard, his heart and head were far too full to take in the web of politics.
Sooth to say, the elopement in prospect seemed to him infinitely more important than Pope or
Spaniard, Guise or Huguenot, and Coligny observed with a sigh to Teligny that he was a good
boy, but nothing but the merest boy, with eyes open only to himself.

When Charles undertook to rehearse their escape with them, and the Queen drove out in a little
high-wheeled litter with Mne. la Comtesse, while Mme. De Sauve and Eustacie were mounted on
gay palfreys with the pommelled side-saddle lately invented by the Queen-mother, Berenger,
as he watched the fearless horsemanship and graceful bearing of his newly-won wife, had no
speculations to spend on the thoughtful face of the Admiral. And when at the outskirts of the
wood the King's bewildering hunting-horn--sounding as it were now here, now there, now low,
now high--called every attendant to hasten to its summons, leaving the young squire and damsel
errant with a long winding high-banked lane before them, they reckoned the dispersion to be
all for their sakes, and did not note, as did Sidney's clear eye, that when the entire company
had come straggling him, it was the King who came up with Mme. De Sauve almost the last; and
a short space after, as if not to appear to have been with him, appeared the Admiral and his
son-in-law.

Sidney also missed one of the Admiral's most trusted attendants, and from this and other symptoms
he formed his conclusions that the King had scattered his followers as much for the sake of
an unobserved conference with Coligny as for the convenience of the lovers, and that letters
had been dispatched in consequence of that meeting.

Those letters were indeed of a kind to change the face of affairs in France. Marshal Strozzi,
then commanding in the south-west, was bidden to embark at La Rochelle in the last week of
August, to hasten to the succour of the Prince of Orange against Spain, and letters were dispatched
by Coligny to all the Huguenot partisans bidding them assemble at Melun on the third of September,
when they would be in the immediate neighbourhood of the court, which was bound for Fontainebleau.
Was the star of the Guises indeed waning? Was Charles about to escape from their hands, and
commit himself to an honest, high-minded policy, in which he might have been able to purify
his national Church, and wind back to her those whom her corruptions had driven to seek truth
and morality beyond her pale?

Alas! there was a bright pair of eyes that saw more than Philip Sidney's, a pair of ears that
heard more, a tongue and pen less faithful to guard a secret.

CHAPTER VIII. 'LE BROUILON'

     But never more the same two sister pearls
     Ran down the silken thread to kiss each other.
                        --Tennyson

Berenger was obliged to crave permission from the King to spend some hours in riding with Osbert
to the first hostel on their way, to make arrangements for the relay of horses that was to
meet them there, and for the reception of Veronique, Eustacie's maid, who was to be sent off
very early in the morning on a pillion behind Osbert, taking with her the articles of dress
that would be wanted to change her mistress from the huntress maid of honour to the English dame.

It was not long after he had been gone that a sound of wheels and trampling horses was heard
in one of the forest drives. Charles, who was amusing himself with shooting at a mark together
with Sidney and Teligny, handed his weapon to an attendant, and came up with looks of restless
anxiety to his Queen, who was placed in her chair under the tree, with the Admiral and her
ladies round her, as judges of the prize.

'Here is le brouillon,' he muttered. 'I thought we had been left in peace too long.'

Elisabeth, who Brantome says was water, while her husband was fire, tried to murmur some hopeful
suggestion; and poor little Eustacie, clasping her hands, could scarcely refrain from uttering
the cry, 'Oh, it is my uncle! Do not let him take me!'

The next minute there appeared four horses greatly heated and jaded, drawing one of the court
coaches; and as it stopped at the castle gate, two ladies became visible within it--the portly
form of Queen Catherine, and on the back seat the graceful figure of Diane de Ribaumont.

Charles swore a great oath under his breath. He made a step forward, but then his glance falling
on Eustacie's face, which had flushed to the rosiest hue of the carnation, he put his finger
upon his lip with a menacing air, and then advanced to greet his mother, followed by his gentlemen.

'Fear not, my dear child,' said the young Queen, taking Eustacie's arm as she rose for the
same purpose. 'Obey the King, and he will take care that all goes well.'

The gentle Elisabeth was, however, the least regarded member of the royal family. Her mother-in-law
had not even waited to greet her, but had hurried the King into his cabinet, with a precipitation
that made the young Queen's tender heart conclude that some dreadful disaster had occurred,
and before Mademoiselle de Ribaumont had had time to make her reverence, she exclaimed, breathlessly,
'Oh, is it ill news? Not from Vienna?'

'No, no, Madame; reassure yourself,' replied Diane; 'it is merely that her Majesty, being on
the way to Monceaux with Mesdames, turned out of her road to make a flying visit to your graces,
and endeavour to persuade you to make her party complete.'

Elisabeth looked as if questioning with herself if this would possibly be the whole explanation.
Monceaux was a castle belonging to the Queen Dowager at no great distance from Montpipeau,
but there had been no intention of leaving Paris before the wedding, which was fixed for the
seventeenth of August, and the bridegroom was daily expected. She asked who was the party at
Monceaux, and was told that Madame de Nemours had gone thither the evening before, with her
son, M. de Guise, to make ready; and that Monsieur was escorting thither his two sisters, Madame
de Lorraine and Madame Marguerite. The Queen-mother had set out before them very early in the
morning.

'You must have made great speed,' said Elisabeth; 'it is scarcely two o'clock.'

'Truly we did, Madame; two of our horses even died upon the road; but the Queen was anxious
to find the King ere he should set off on one of his long chases.'

Diane, at every spare moment, kept her eyes interrogatively fixed on her cousin, and evidently
expected that the taciturn Queen, to whom a long conversation, in any language but Spanish,
was always a grievance, would soon dismiss them both; and Eustacie did not know whether to
be thankful or impatient, as Elisabeth, with tardy, hesitating, mentally-translated speech,
inquired into every circumstance of the death of the poor horses, and then into all the court
gossip, which she was currently supposed neither to hear nor understand; and then bethought
herself that this good Mademoiselle de Ribaumont could teach her that embroidery stitch she
had so long wished to learn. Taking her arm, she entered the hall, and produced her work, so
as effectually to prevent any communication between the cousins; Eustacie, meanwhile her heart
clinging to her friend, felt her eyes filling with tears at the thoughts of how unkind her
morrow's flight would seem without one word of farewell or of confidence, and was already devising
tokens of tenderness to be left behind for Diane's consolation, when the door of the cabinet
opened, and Catherine sailed down the stairs, with her peculiar gliding step and sweep of dignity.
The King followed her with a face of irresolution and distress. He was evidently under her
displeasure; but she advanced to the young Queen with much graciousness, and an air of matronly
solicitude.

'My daughter,' she said, 'I have just assured the King that I cannot leave you in these damp
forests. I could not be responsible for the results of the exposure any longer. It is for him
to make his own arrangements, but I brought my coach empty on purpose to transport you and
your ladies to Monceaux.

The women may follow with the mails. You can be ready as soon as the horses are harnessed.'

Elisabeth was used to passiveness. She turned one inquiring look to her husband, but he looked
sullen, and, evidently cowed by his mother, uttered not a word. She could only submit, and
Catherine herself add that there was room for Madame de Sauve and Mademoiselle de Nid de Merle.
Madame la Comtesse should follow! It was self-evident that propriety would not admit of the
only demoiselle being left behind among the gentlemen. Poor Eustacie, she looked mutely round
as if she hoped to escape! What was the other unkindness to this? And ever under the eyes of
Diane too, who followed her to their chamber, when she went to prepare, so that she could not
even leave a token for him where he would have been most certain to find it. Moments were few;
but at the very last, while the queens were being handed in the carriage, she caught the eye
of Philip Sidney. He saw the appealing look, and came near. She tried to laugh. 'Here is my
gage, Monsieur Sidney,' she said, and held out a rose-coloured knot of ribbon; then, as he
came near enough, she whispered imploringly three of her few English words--

'Give to HIM.'

'I take the gage as it is meant,' said Sidney, putting a knee to the ground, and kissing the
trembling fingers, ere he handed her into the carriage. He smiled and waved his hand as he
met her earnest eyes. One bow contained a scrap of paper pricked with needle-holes. Sidney
would not have made out those pricks for the whole world, even had he been able to do more
than hastily secure the token, before the unhappy King, with a paroxysm of violent interjections,
demanded of him whether the Queen of England, woman though she were, ever were so beset, and
never allowed a moment to herself; then, without giving time for an answer, he flung away to
his cabinet, and might be heard pacing up and down there in a tempest of perplexity. He came
forth only to order his horse, and desire M. de Sauve and a few grooms to be ready instantly
to ride with him. His face was full of pitiable perplexity--the smallest obstacle was met with
a savage oath; and he was evidently in all the misery of a weak yet passionate nature, struggling
with impotent violence against a yoke that evidently mastered it.

He flung a word to his guests that he should return ere night, and they thus perceived that
he did not intend their dismissal.

'Poor youth,' said Coligny, mildly, 'he will be another being when we have him in our camp
with the King of Navarre for his companion.'

And then the Admiral repaired to his chamber to write one of his many fond letters to the young
wife of his old age; while his son-in-law and Philip Sidney agreed to ride on, so as to met
poor young Ribaumont, and prepare him for the blow that had befallen him personally, while
they anxiously debated what this sudden descent of the Queen-mother might portend. Teligny
was ready to believe in any evil intention on her part, but he thought himself certain of the
King's real sentiments, and in truth Charles had never treated any man with such confidence
as this young Huguenot noble, to whom he had told his opinion of each of his counsellors, and
his complete distrust of all. That pitying affection which clings to those who cling to it,
as well as a true French loyalty of heart, made Teligny fully believe that however Catherine
might struggle to regain her ascendancy, and whatever apparent relapses might be caused by
Charles's habitual subjection to her, yet the high aspirations and strong sense of justice
inherent in the King were asserting themselves as his youth was passing into manhood; and that
the much-desired war would enable him to develop all his higher qualities. Sidney listened,
partially agreed, talked of caution, and mused within himself whether violence might not sometimes
be mistaken for vigour.

Ere long, the merry cadence of an old English song fell with a homelike sound upon Sidney's
ear, and in another moment they were in sight of Berenger, trotting joyously along, with a
bouquet of crimson and white heather-blossoms in his hand, and his bright young face full of
exultation in his arrangements. He shouted gaily as he saw them, calling out, 'I thought I
should meet you! but I wondered not to have heard the King's bugle-horn. Where are the rest
of the hunters?'

'Unfortunately we have had another sort of hunt to-day,' said Sidney, who had ridden forward
to meet him; 'and one that I fear, will disquiet you greatly.'

'How! Not her uncle?' exclaimed Berenger.

'No, cheer up, my friend, it was not she who was the object of the chase; it was this unlucky
King,' he added, speaking English, 'who has been run to earth by his mother.'

'Nay, but what is that to me?' said Berenger, with impatient superiority to the affairs of
the nation. 'How does it touch us?'

Sidney related the abstraction of the young Queen and her ladies, and then handed over the
rose-coloured token, which Berenger took with vehement ardour; then his features quivered as
he read the needle-pricked words-two that he had playfully insisted on her speaking and spelling
after him in his adopted tongue, then not vulgarized, but the tenderest in the language, 'Sweet
heart.' That was all, but to him they conveyed constancy to him and his, whatever might betide,
and an entreaty not to leave her to her fate.

'My dearest! never!' he muttered; then turning hastily as he put the precious token into his
bosom, he exclaimed, 'Are their women yet gone?' and being assured that they were not departed
when the two friends had set out, he pushed his horse on at speed, so as to be able to send
a reply by Veronique. He was barely in time: the clumsy wagon-like conveyance of the waiting-women
stood at the door of the castle, in course of being packed with the Queen's wardrobe, amid
the janglings of lackeys, and expostulating cries of femmes de chambre, all in the worst possible
humour at being crowded up with their natural enemies, the household of the Queen-mother.

Veronique, a round-faced Angevin girl--who, like her lady, had not parted with all her rustic
simplicity and honesty, and who had been necessarily taken into their confidence--was standing
apart from the whirl of confusion, holding the leashes of two or three little dogs that had
been confided to her care, that their keepers might with more ease throw themselves into the
melee. Her face lighted up as she saw the Baron de Ribaumont arrive.

'Ah, sir, Madame will be so happy that I have seen Monsieur once more,' she exclaimed under
her breath, as he approached her.

'Alas! there is not a moment to write,' he said, looking at the vehicle, already fast filling,
'but give her these flowers; they were gathered for her; give her ten thousand thanks for her
token. Tell her to hold firm, and that neither king nor queen, bolt nor bar, shall keep me
from her. Tell her, our watchword is HOPE.'

The sharp eyes of the duenna of the Queen's household, a rigid Spanish dame, were already searching
for stray members of her flock, and Veronique had to hurry to her place, while Berenger remained
to hatch new plans, each wilder than the last, and torment himself with guesses whether his
project had been discovered. Indeed, there were moments when he fancied the frustration of
his purpose the special object of Queen Catherine's journey, but he had the wisdom to keep
any such suggestion to himself.

The King came back by supper-time, looking no longer in a state of indecision, but pale and
morose. He spoke to no one as he entered, and afterwards took his place at the head of the
supper-table in silence, which he did not break till the meal was nearly over. Then he said
abruptly, 'Gentlemen, our party has been broken up, and I imagine that after our great hunt
tomorrow, no one will have any objection to return to Paris. We shall have merrier sport at
Fontainebleau when this most troublesome of weddings is over.'

There was nothing to be done but to bow acquiescence, and the King again became grimly silent.
After supper he challenged Coligny to a game of chess, and not a word passed during the protracted
contest, either from the combatants or any other person in the hall. It was as if the light
had suddenly gone out to others besides the disappointed and anxious Berenger, and a dull shadow
had fallen on the place only yesterday so lively, joyous, and hopeful.

Berenger, chained by the etiquette of the royal presence, sat like a statue, his back against
the wall, his arms crossed on his breast, his eyes fixed, chewing the cud of the memories of
his dream of bliss, or striving to frame the future to his will, and to decide what was the
next reasonable step he could take, or whether his irrepressible longing to ride straight off
to Monceaux, claim his wife, and take her on horseback behind him, were a mere impracticable
vision.

The King, having been checkmated twice out of three times by the Admiral, too honest a man
not truly to accept his declaration of not wanting courtly play, pushed away the board, and
was attended by them all to his COUCHER, which was usually made in public; and the Queen being
absent, the gentlemen were required to stand around him till he was ready to fall asleep. He
did not seem disposed to talk, but begged Sidney to fetch his lute, and sing to him some English
airs that had taken his fancy much when sung by Sidney and Berenger together.

Berenger felt as if they would choke him in his present turbid state of resentful uncertainty;
but even as the unhappy young King spoke, it was with a heavy, restless groan, as he added,
'If you know any lullaby that will give rest to a wretch tormented beyond bearing, let us have it.'

'Alas, Sire!' said the Admiral, seeing that no perilous ears remained in the room; 'there are
better and more soothing words than any mundane melody.'

'Peste! My good father,' said the King, petulantly, 'has not old Phlipote, my nurse, rocked
me to the sound of your Marot's Psalms, and crooned her texts over me? I tell you I do not
want to think. I want what will drive thought away--to dull---'

'Alas! what dulls slays,' said the Admiral.

'Let it. Nothing can be worse than the present,' said the wretched Charles; then, as if wishing
to break away from Coligny, he threw himself round towards Berenger, and said, 'Here; stoop
down, Ribaumont; a word with you. Your matters have gone up the mountains, as the Italians
say, with mine. But never fear. Keep silence, and you shall have the bird in your hand, only
you must be patient. Hold! I will make you and Monsieur Sidney gentlemen of my bed-chamber,
which will give you the entree of the Louvre; and if you cannot get her out of it without an
eclat, then you must be a much duller fellow than half my court. Only that it is not their
own wives that they abstract.

With this Berenger must needs content himself; and the certainty of the poor King's good-will
did enable him to do his part with Sidney in the songs that endeavoured to soothe the torments
of the evil spirit which had on that day effected a fresh lodgment in that weak, unwilling heart.

It was not till the memoirs of the secret actors in this tragedy were brought to light that
the key to these doings was discovered. M. de Sauve, Charles's secretary, had disclosed his
proceedings to his wife; she, flattered by the attentions of the Duke of Anjou, betrayed them
to him; and the Queen-mother, terrified at the change of policy, and the loss of the power
she had enjoyed for so many years, had hurried to the spot.

Her influence over her son resembled the fascination of a snake: once within her reach he was
unable to resist her; and when in their tete-a-tete she reproached him with ill-faith towards
her, prophesied the overthrow of the Church, the desertion of his allies, the ruin of his throne,
and finally announced her intention of hiding her head in her own hereditary estates in Auvergne,
begging, as a last favour, that he would give his brother time to quit France instead of involving
him in his own ruin, the poor young man's whole soul was in commotion. His mother knew her
strength, left the poison to work, and withdrew in displeasure to Monceaux, sure that, as in
effect happened, he would not be long in following her, imploring her not to abandon him, and
making an unconditional surrender of himself, his conscience, and his friends into her hands.
Duplicity was so entirely the element of the court, that, even while thus yielding himself,
it was as one checked, but continuing the game; he still continued his connection with the
Huguenots, hoping to succeed in his aims by some future counter-intrigue; and his real hatred
of the court policy, and the genuine desire to make common cause with them, served his mother's
purpose completely, since his cajolery thus became sincere. Her purpose was, probably, not
yet formed. It was power that she loved, and hoped to secure by the intrigues she had played
off all her life; but she herself was in the hands of an infinitely more bloodthirsty and zealous
faction, who could easily accomplish their ends by working on the womanly terrors of an unscrupulous
mind.

CHAPTER IX. THE WEDDING WITH CRIMSON FAVOURS

     And trust me not at all or all in all.
                       --TENNYSON

So extensive was the Louvre, so widely separated the different suites of apartments, that Diane
and Eustacie had not met after the pall-mall party till they sat opposite to their several
queens in the coach driving through the woods, the elder cousin curiously watching the eyes
of the younger, so wistfully gazing at the window, and now and then rapidly winking as though
to force back a rebellious tear.

The cousins had been bred up together in the convent at Bellaise, and had only been separated
by Diane's having been brought to court two years sooner than Eustacie. They had always been
on very kindly, affectionate terms; Diane treating her little cousin with the patronage of
an elder sister, and greatly contributing to shield her from the temptations of the court.
The elder cousin was so much the more handsome, brilliant, and admired, that no notion of rivalry
had crossed her mind; and Eustacie's inheritance was regarded by her as reserved for her brother,
and the means of aggradizement an prosperity for herself and her father. She looked upon the
child as a sort of piece of property of the family, to be guarded and watched over for her
brother; and when she had first discovered the error that the young baron was making between
the two daughters of the house, it was partly in kindness to Eustacie, partly to carry out
her father's plans, and partly from her own pleasure in conversing with anything so candid
and fresh as Berenger, that she had maintained the delusion. Her father believed himself to
have placed Berenger so entirely in the background, that he would hardly be at court long enough
to discover the imposition; and Diane was not devoid of a strong hope of winning his affection
and bending his will so as to induce him to become her husband, and become a French courtier
for her sake--a wild dream, but a better castle in the air than she had ever yet indulged in.

This arrangement was, however, disconcerted by the King's passion for Sidney's society, which
brought young Ribaumont also to court; and at the time of the mischievous introduction by Madame
Marguerite, Diane had perceived that the mistake would soon be found out, and that she should
no longer be able to amuse herself with the fresh-coloured, open-faced boy who was unlike all
her former acquaintance; but the magnetism that shows a woman when she produces an effect had
been experienced by her, and she had been sure that a few efforts more would warm and mould
the wax in her fingers. That he should prefer a little brown thing, whose beauty was so inferior
to her own, had never crossed her mind; she did not even know that he was invited to the pall-mall
party, and was greatly taken by surprise when her father sought an interview with her, accused
her of betraying their interests, and told her that this foolish young fellow declared that
he had been mistaken, and having now discovered his veritable wife, protested against resigning
her.

By that time the whole party were gone to Montpipeau, but that the Baron was among them was
not known at the Louvre until Queen Catherine, who had always treated Diane as rather a favoured,
quick-witted protegee, commanded her attendance, and on her way let her know that Madame de
Sauve had reported that, among all the follies that were being perpetrated at the hunting-seat,
the young Queen was absolutely throwing the little Nid-de-Merle into the arms of her Huguenot
husband, and that if measures were not promptly taken all the great estates in the Bocage would
be lost to the young Chevalier, and be carried over to the Huguenot interest.

Still Diane could not believe that it was so much a matter of love as that the young had begun
to relish court favour and to value the inheritance, and she could quite believe her little
cousin had been flattered by a few attentions that had no meaning in them. She was not prepared
to find that Eustacie shrank from her, and tried to avoid a private interview. In truth, the
poor child had received such injunctions from the Queen, and so stern a warning look from the
King, that she durst not utter a syllable of the evening that had sealed her lot, and was so
happy with her secret, so used to tell everything to Diane, so longing to talk of her husband,
that she was afraid of betraying herself if once they were alone together. Yet Diane, knowing
that her father trusted to her to learn how far things had gone, and piqued at seeing the transparent
little creature, now glowing and smiling with inward bliss, now pale, pensive, sighing, and
anxious, and scorning her as too childish for the love that she seemed to affect, was resolved
on obtaining confidence from her.

And when the whole female court had sat down to the silk embroidery in which Catherine de Medicis
excelled, Diane seated herself in the recess of a window and beckoned her cousin to her side,
so that it was not possible to disobey.

'Little one,' she said, 'why have you cast off your poor cousin? There, sit down'--for Eustacie
stood, with her silk in her hand, as if meaning instantly to return to her former place; and
now, her cheeks in a flame, she answered in an indignant whisper, 'You know, Diane! How could
you try to keep him from me?'

'Because it was better for thee, my child, than to be pestered with an adventurer,' she said,
smiling, though bitterly.

'My husband!' returned Eustacie proudly.

'Bah! You know better than that!' Then, as Eustacie was about to speak, but checked herself,
Diane added, 'Yes, my poor friend, he has a something engaging about him, and we all would
have hindered you from the pain and embarrassment of a meeting with him.'

Eustacie smiled a little saucy smile, as though infinitely superior to them all.

'Pauvre petite,' said Diane, nettled; 'she actually believes in his love.'

'I will not hear a word against my husband!' said Eustacie, stepping back, as if to return
to her place, but Diane rose and laid her hand on hers. 'My dear,' she said, 'we must no part
thus. I only wish to know what touches my darling so nearly. I thought she loved and clung
to us; why should she have turned from me for the sake of one who forgot her for half his life?
What can he have done to master this silly little heart?'

'I cannot tell you, Diane,' said Eustacie, simply; and though she looked down, the colour on
her face was more of a happy glow than a conscious blush. 'I love him too much; only we understand
each other now, and it is of no use to try to separate us.'

'Ah, poor little thing, so she thinks,' said Diane; and as Eustacie again smiled as one incapable
of being shaken in her conviction, she added, 'And how do you know that he loves you?'

Diane was startled by the bright eyes that flashed on her and the bright colour that made Eustacie
perfectly beautiful, as she answered, 'Because I am his wife! That is enough!' Then, before
her cousin could speak again, 'But, Diane, I promised not to speak of it. I know he would despise
me if I broke my word, so I will not talk to you till I have leave to tell you all, and I am
going back to help Gabrielle de Limeuil with her shepherdess.'

Mademoiselle de Ribaumont felt her attempt most unsatisfactory, but she knew of old that Eustacie
was very determined--all Bellaise know that to oppose the tiny Baronne was to make her headstrong
in her resolution; and if she suspected that she was coaxed, she only became more obstinate.
To make any discoveries, Diane must take the line of most cautious caresses, such as to throw
her cousin off her guard; and this she was forced to confess to her father when he sought an
interview with her on the day of her return to Paris. He shook his head. She must be on the
watch, he said, and get quickly into the silly girl's confidence. What! had she not found out
that the young villain had been on the point of eloping with her? If such a thing as that should
succeed, the whole family was lost, and she was the only person who could prevent it. He trusted
to her.

The Chevalier had evidently come to regard his niece as his son's lawful property, and the
Baron as the troublesome meddler; and Diane had much the same feeling, enhanced by sore jealousy
at Eustacie's triumph over her, and curiosity as to whether it could be indeed well founded.
She had an opportunity of judging the same evening--mere habit always caused Eustacie to keep
under her wing, if she could not be near the Queen, whenever there was a reception, and to
that reception of course Berenger came, armed with his right as gentleman of the bedchamber.
Eustacie was colouring and fluttering, as if by the instinct of his presence, even before the
tall fair head became visible, moving forward as well as the crowd would permit, and seeking
about with anxious eyes. The glances of the blue and the black eyes met at last, and a satisfied
radiance illuminated each young face; then the young man steered his way through the throng,
but was caught midway by Coligny, and led up to be presented to a hook-nosed, dark-haired,
lively-looking young man, in a suit of black richly laced with silver. It was the King of Navarre,
the royal bridegroom, who had entered Paris in state that afternoon. Eustacie tried to be proud
of the preferment, but oh! she thought it mistimed, and was gratified to mark certain wandering
of the eye even while the gracious King was speaking. Then the Admiral said something that
brought the girlish rosy flush up to the very roots of the short curls of flaxen hair, and
made the young King's white teeth flash out in a mirthful, good-natured laugh, and thereupon
the way opened, and Berenger was beside the two ladies, kissing Eustacie's hand, but merely
bowing to Diane.

She was ready to take the initiative.

'My cousins deem me unpardonable,' she said; 'yet I am going to purchase their pardon. See
this cabinet of porcelain a le Reine, and Italian vases and gems, behind this curtain. There
is all the siege of Troy, which M. le Baron will not doubt explain to Mademoiselle, while I
shall sit on this cushion, and endure the siege of St. Quentin from the bon Sieur de Selinville.'

Monsieur de Selinville was the court bore, who had been in every battle from Pavia to Montcontour,
and gave as full memoirs of each as did Blaise de Monluc, only viva voce instead of in writing.
Diane was rather a favourite of his; she knew her way through all his adventures. So soon as
she had heard the description of the King of Navarre's entry into Paris that afternoon, and
the old gentleman's lamentation that his own two nephews were among the three hundred Huguenot
gentleman who had formed the escort, she had only to observe whether his reminiscences had
gone to Italy or to Flanders in order to be able to put in the appropriate remarks at each
pause, while she listened all the while to the murmurs behind the curtain. Yet it was not easy,
with all her court breeding, to appear indifferent, and solely absorbed in hearing of the bad
lodgings that had fallen to the share of the royal troops at Brescia, when such sounds were
reaching her. It was not so much the actual words she heard, though these were the phrases--'mon
ange, my heart, my love;' those were common, and Diane had lived in the Queen-mother's squadron
long enough to despise those who uttered them only less than those who believed them. It was
the full depth of tenderness and earnestness, in the subdued tones of the voice, that gave
her a sense of quiet force and reality beyond all she had ever known. She had heard and overheard
men pour out frantic ravings of passion, but never had listened to anything like the sweet
protecting tenderness of voice that seemed to embrace and shelter its object. Diane had no
doubts now; he had never so spoken to her; nay, perhaps he had had no such cadences in his
voice before. It was quite certain that Eustacie was everything to him, she herself nothing;
she who might have had any gallant in the court at her feet, but had never seen one whom she
could believe in, whose sense of esteem had been first awakened by this stranger lad who despised
her. Surely he was loving this foolish child simply as his duty; his belonging, as his right
he might struggle hard for her, and if he gained her, be greatly disappointed; for how could
Eustacie appreciate him, little empty-headed, silly thing, who would be amused and satisfied
by any court flatterer?

However, Diane held out and played her part, caught scraps of the conversation, and pieced
them together, yet avoided all appearance of inattention to M. de Selinville, and finally dismissed
him, and manoeuvred first Eustacie, and after a safe interval Berenger, out of the cabinet.
The latter bowed as he bade her good night, and said, with the most open and cordial of smiles,
'Cousin, I thank you with all my heart.'

The bright look seemed to her another shaft. 'What happiness!' said she to herself. 'Can I
overthrow it? Bah! it will crumble of its own accord, even if I did nothing! And my father
and brother!'

Communication with her father and brother was not always easy to Diane, for she lived among
the Queen-mother's ladies. Her brother was quartered in a sort of barrack among the gentlemen
of Monsieur's suite, and the old Chevalier was living in the room Berenger had taken for him
at the Croix de Lorraine, and it was only on the most public days that they attended at the
palace. Such a day, however, there was on the ensuing Sunday, when Henry of Navarre and Marguerite
of France were to be wedded. Their dispensation was come, but, to the great relief of Eustacie,
there was no answer with it to the application for the CASSATION of her marriage. In fact,
this dispensation had never emanated from the Pope at all. Rome would not sanction the union
of a daughter of France with a Huguenot prince; and Charles had forged the document, probably
with his mother's knowledge, in the hope of spreading her toils more completely round her prey,
while he trusted that the victims might prove too strong for her, and destroy her web, and
in breaking forth might release himself.

Strange was the pageant of that wedding on Sunday, the 17th of August, 1572. The outward seeming
was magnificent, when all that was princely in France stood on the splendidly decked platform
in front of Notre-Dame, around the bridegroom in the bright promise of his kingly endowments,
and the bride in her peerless beauty. Brave, noble-hearted, and devoted were the gallant following
of the one, splendid and highly gifted the attendants of the other; and their union seemed
to promise peace to a long distracted kingdom.

Yet what an abyss lay beneath those trappings! The bridegroom and his comrades were as lions
in the toils of the hunter, and the lure that had enticed them thither was the bride, herself
so unwilling a victim that her lips refused to utter the espousal vows, and her head as force
forward by her brother into a sign of consent; while the favoured lover of her whole lifetime
agreed to the sacrifice in order to purchase the vengeance for which he thirsted, and her mother,
the corrupter of her own children, looked complacently on at her ready-dug pit of treachery
and bloodshed.

Among the many who played unconscious on the surface of that gulf of destruction, were the
young creatures whose chief thought in the pageant was the glance and smile from the gallery
of the Queen's ladies to the long procession of the English ambassador's train, as they tried
to remember their own marriage there; Berenger with clear recollection of his father's grave,
anxious face, and Eustacie chiefly remembering her own white satin and turquoise dress, which
indeed she had seen on every great festival-day as the best raiment of the image of Notre Dame
de Bellaise. She remained in the choir during mass, but Berenger accompanied the rest of the
Protestants with the bridegroom at their head into the nave, where Coligny beguiled the time
with walking about, looking at the banners that had been taken from himself and Conde at Montcontour
and Jarnac, saying that he hoped soon to see them taken down and replaced by Spanish banners.
Berenger had followed because he felt the need of doing as Walsingham and Sidney thought right,
but he had not been in London long enough to become hardened to the desecration of churches
by frequenting 'Paul's Walk.' He remained bareheaded, and stood as near as he could to the
choir, listening to the notes that floated from the priests and acolytes at the high altar,
longing from the time when he and Eustacie should be one in their prayers, and lost in a reverie,
till a grave old nobleman passing near him reproved him for dallying with the worship of Rimmon.
But his listening attitude had not passed unobserved by others besides Huguenot observers.

The wedding was followed by a ball at the Louvre, from which, however, all the stricter Huguenots
absented themselves out of respect to Sunday, and among them the family and guests of the English
Ambassador, who were in the meantime attending the divine service that had been postponed on
account of the morning's ceremony. Neither was the Duke of Guise present at the entertainment;
for though he had some months previously been piqued and entrapped into a marriage with Catherine
of Cleves, yet his passion for Marguerite was still so strong that he could not bear to join
in the festivities of her wedding with another. The absence of so many distinguished persons
caused the admission of many less constantly privileged, and thus it was that Diane there met
both her father and brother, who eagerly drew her into a window, and demanded what she had
to tell them, laughing too at the simplicity of the youth, who had left for the Chevalier a
formal announcement that he had dispatched his protest to Rome, and considered himself as free
to obtain his wife by any means in his power.

'Where is la petite?' Narcisse demanded. Behind her Queen, as usual?'

'The young Queen keeps her room to-night,' returned Diane. 'Nor do I advise you, brother, to
thrust yourself in the way of la petite entetee just at present.'

'What, is she so besotted with the peach face? He shall pay for it!'

'Brother, no duel. Father, remind him that she would never forgive him.'

'Fear not, daughter,' said the Chevalier; 'this folly can be ended by much quieter modes, only
you must first give us information.'

'She tells me nothing,' said Diane; 'she is in one of her own humours--high and mighty.'

'Peste! where is your vaunt of winding the little one round your finger?'

'With time, I said,' replied Diane. Curiously enough, she had no compunction in worming secrets
from Eustacie and betraying them, but she could not bear to think of the trap she had set for
the unsuspecting youth, and how ingenuously he had thanked her, little knowing how she had
listened to his inmost secrets.

'Time is everything,' said her father; 'delay will be our ruin. Your inheritance will slip
through your fingers, my son. The youth will soon win favour by abjuring his heresy; he will
play the same game with the King as his father did with King Henri. You will have nothing but
your sword, and for you, my poor girl, there is nothing but to throw yourself on the kindness
of your aunt at Bellaise, if she can receive the vows of a dowerless maiden.'

'It will never be,' said Narcisse. 'My rapier will soon dispose of a big rustic like that,
who knows just enough of fencing to make him an easy prey. What! I verily believe the great
of entreaty. 'And yet the fine fellow was willing enough to break the marriage when he took
her for the bride.'

'Nay, my son,' argued the Chevalier, will apparently to spare his daughter from the sting of
mortification, 'as I said, all can be done without danger of bloodshed on either side, were
we but aware of any renewed project of elopement. The pretty pair would be easily waylaid,
the girl safely lodged at Bellaise, the boy sent off to digest his pride in England.'

'Unhurt?' murmured Diane.

Her father checked Narcisse's mockery at her solicitude, as he added, 'Unhurt? Yes. He is a
liberal-hearted, gracious, fine young man, whom I should much grieve to harm; but if you know
of any plan of elopement and conceal it, my daughter, then upon you will lie either the ruin
and disgrace of your family, or the death of one or both of the youths.'

Diane saw that her question had betrayed her knowledge. She spoke faintly. 'Something I did
overhear, but I know not how to utter a treason.'

'There is no treason where there is no trust, daughter,' said the Chevalier, in the tone of
a moral sage. 'Speak!'

Diane never disobeyed her father, and faltered, 'Wednesday; it is for Wednesday. They mean
to leave the palace in the midst of the masque; there is a market-boat from Leurre to meet
them on the river; his servants will be in it.'

'On Wednesday!' Father and son looked at each other.

'That shall be remedied,' said Narcisse.

'Child,' added her father, turning kindly to Diane, 'you have saved our fortunes. There is
put one thing more that you must do. Make her obtain the pearls from him.'

'Ah!' sighed Diane, half shocked, half revengeful, as she thought how he had withheld them
from her.

'It is necessary,' said the Chevalier. 'The heirloom of our house must not be risked. Secure
the pearls, child, and you will have done good service, and earned the marriage that shall
reward you.'

When he was gone, Diane pressed her hands together with a strange sense of misery. He, who
had shrunk from the memory of little Diane's untruthfulness, what would he think of the present
Diane's treachery? Yet it was to save his life and that of her brother--and for the assertion
of her victory over the little robber, Eustacie.

CHAPTER X. MONSIEUR'S BALLET.

    The Styx had fast bound her
    Nine times around her.
         --POPE, ODE ON ST.CECILIA'S DAY

Early on Monday morning came a message to Mademoiselle Nid de Merle that she was to prepare
to act the part of a nymph of Paradise in the King's masque on Wednesday night, and must dress
at once to rehearse her part in the ballet specially designed by Monsieur.

Her first impulse was to hurry to her own Queen, whom she entreated to find some mode of exempting
her. But Elisabeth, who was still in bed, looked distressed and frightened, made signs of caution,
and when the weeping girl was on the point of telling her of the project that would thus be
ruined, silenced her by saying, 'Hush! my poor child, I have but meddled too much already.
Our Lady grant that I have not done you more harm than good! Tell me no more.'

'Ah! Madame, I will be discreet, I will tell you nothing; but if you would only interfere to
spare me from this ballet! It is Monsieur's contrivance! Ah! Madame, could you but speak to
the King!'

'Impossible, child,' said the Queen. 'Things are not her as they were at happy Montpipeau.'

And the poor young Queen turned her face in to her pillow, and wept.

Every one who was not in a dream of bliss like poor little Eustacie knew that the King had
been in so savage a mood ever since his return that no one durst ask anything from him a little
while since, he had laughed at his gentle wife for letting herself, and Emperor's daughter,
be trampled on where his brother Francis's Queen, from her trumpery, beggarly realm, had held
up her head, and put down la belle Mere; he had amused himself with Elisabeth's pretty little
patronage of the young Ribaumonts as a promising commencement in intriguing like other people;
but now he was absolutely violent at any endeavour to make him withstand his mother, and had
driven his wife back into that cold, listless, indifferent shell of apathy from which affection
and hope had begun to rouse her. She knew it would only make it the worse for her little Nid
de Merle for her to interpose when Monsieur had made the choice.

And Eustacie was more afraid of Monsieur than even of Narcisse, and her Berenger could not
be there to protect her. However, there was protection in numbers. With twelve nymphs, and
cavaliers to match, even the Duke of Anjou could not accomplish the being very insulting. Eustacie--light,
agile, and fairy-like--gained considerable credit for ready comprehension and graceful evolutions.
She had never been so much complimented before, and was much cheered by praise. Diane showed
herself highly pleased with her little cousin's success, embraced her, and told her she was
finding her true level at court. She would be the prettiest of all the nymphs, who were all
small, since fairies rather than Amazons were wanted in their position. 'And, Eustacie,' she
added, 'you should wear the pearls.'

'The pearls!' said Eustacie. 'Ah! but HE always wears them. I like to see them on his bonnet--they
are hardly whiter than his forehead.'

'Foolish little thing!' said Diane, 'I shall think little of his love if he cares to see himself
in them more than you.'

The shaft seemed carelessly shot, but Diane knew that it would work, and so it did. Eustacie
wanted to prove her husband's love, not to herself, but to her cousin.

He made his way to her in the gardens of the Louvre that evening, greatly dismayed at the report
that had reached him that she was to figure as a nymph of Elysium. She would thus be in sight
as a prominent figure the whole evening, even till an hour so late that the market boat which
Osbert had arranged for their escape could not wait for them without exciting suspicion, and
besides, his delicate English feelings were revolted at the notion of her forming a part of
such a spectacle. She could not understand his displeasure. If they could not go on Wednesday,
they could go on Saturday; and as to her acting, half the noblest ladies in the court would
be in piece, and if English husbands did not like it, they must be the tyrants she had always
heard of.

'To be a gazing-stock---' began Berenger.

'Hush! Monsieur, I will hear no more, or I shall take care how I put myself in your power.'

'That has been done for you, sweetheart,' he said, smiling with perhaps a shade too much superiority;
'you are mine entirely now.'

'That is not kind,' she pouted, almost crying--for between flattery, excitement, and disappointment
she was not like herself that day, and she was too proud to like to be reminded that she was
in any one's power.

'I thought,' said Berenger, with the gentleness that always made him manly in dealing with
her, 'I thought you like to own yourself mine.'

'Yes, sir, when you are good, and do not try to hector me for what I cannot avoid.'

Berenger was candid enough to recollect that royal commands did not brook disobedience, and,
being thoroughly enamoured besides of his little wife, he hastened to make his peace by saying,
'True, ma mie, this cannot be helped. I was a wretch to find fault. Think of it no more.'

'You forgive me?' she said, softened instantly.

'Forgive you? What for, pretty one? For my forgetting that you are still a slave to a hateful
Court?'

'Ah! then, if you forgive me, let me wear the pearls.'

'The poor pearls,' said Berenger, taken aback for a moment, 'the meed of our forefather's valour,
to form part of the pageant and mummery? But never mind, sweetheart,' for he could not bear
to vex her again: 'you shall have them to-night: only take care of them. My mother would look
back on me if she knew I had let them out of my care, but you and I are one after all.'

Berenger could not bear to leave his wife near the Duke of Anjou and Narcisse, and he offered
himself to the King as an actor in the masque, much as he detested all he heard of its subject.
The King nodded comprehension, and told him it was open to him either to be a demon in a tight
suit of black cloth, with cloven-hoof shoes, a long tail, and a trident; or one of the Huguenots
who were to be repulsed from Paradise for the edification of the spectators. As these last
were to wear suits of knightly armour, Berenger much preferred making one of them in spite
of their doom.

The masque was given at the hall of the Hotel de Bourbon, where a noble gallery accommodated
the audience, and left full space beneath for the actors. Down the centre of the stage flowed
a stream, broad enough to contain a boat, which was plied by the Abbe de Mericour--transformed
by a gray beard and hair and dismal mask into Charon.

But so unused to navigation was he, so crazy and ill-trimmed his craft, that his first performance
would have been his submersion in the Styx had not Berenger, better accustomed to boats than
any of the dramatis personoe, caught him by the arms as he was about to step in, pointed out
the perils, weighted the frail vessel, and given him a lesson in paddling it to and fro, with
such a masterly hand, that, had there been time for a change of dress, the part of Charon would
have been unanimously transferred to him; but the delay could not be suffered, and poor Mericour,
in fear of a ducking, or worse, of ridicule, balanced himself, pole in hand, in the midst of
the river. To the right of the river was Elysium--a circular island revolving on a wheel which
was an absolute orrery, representing in concentric circles the skies, with the sun, moon, the
seven planets, twelve signs, and the fixed stars, all illuminated with small lamps. The island
itself was covered with verdure, in which, among bowers woven of gay flowers, reposed twelve
nymphs of Paradise, of whom Eustacie was one.

On the other side of the stream was another wheel, whose grisly emblems were reminders of Dante's
infernal circles, and were lighted by lurid flames, while little bells were hung round so as
to make a harsh jangling sound, and all of the court who had any turn for buffoonery were leaping
and dancing about as demons beneath it, and uttering wild shouts.

King Charles and his two brothers stood on the margin of the Elysian lake. King Henry, the
Prince of Conde, and a selection of the younger and gayer Huguenots, were the assailants,--storming
Paradise to gain possession of the nymphs. It was a very illusive armour that they wore, thin
scales of gold or silver as cuirasses over their satin doublets, and the swords and lances
of festive combat in that court had been of the bluntest foil ever since the father of these
princes had died beneath Montgomery's spear. And when the King and his brothers, one of them
a puny crooked boy, were the champions, the battle must needs be the merest show, though there
were lookers-on who thought that, judging by appearances, the assailants ought to have the
best chance of victory, both literal and allegorical.

However, these three guardian angels had choice allies in the shape of the infernal company,
who, as fast as the Huguenots crossed swords or shivered lances with their royal opponents,
encircled them with their long black arms, and dragged them struggling away to Tartarus. Henry
of Navarre yielded himself with a good-will to the horse-play with which this was performed,
resisting just enough to give his demoniacal captors a good deal of trouble, while yielding
all the time, and taking them by surprise by agile efforts, that showed that if he were excluded
from Paradise it was only by his own consent, and that he heartily enjoyed the merriment. Most
of his comrades, in especial the young Count de Rochefoucauld, entered into the sport with
the same heartiness, but the Prince of Conde submitted to his fate with a gloomy, disgusted
countenance, that added much to the general mirth; and Berenger, with Eustacie before his eyes,
looking pale, distressed, and ill at ease, was a great deal too much in earnest. He had so
veritable an impulse to leap forward and snatch her from that giddy revolving prison, that
he struck against the sword of Monsieur with a hearty good-will. His silvered lath snapped
in his hand, and at that moment he was seized round the waist, and, when his furious struggle
was felt to be in earnest, he was pulled over on his back, while yells and shouts of discordant
laughter rang round him, as demons pinioned him hand and foot.

He thought he heard a faint cry from Eustacie, and, with a sudden, unexpected struggle, started
into a sitting posture; but a derisive voice, that well he knew, cried, 'Ha, the deadly sin
of pride! Monsieur thinks his painted face pleases the ladies. To the depths with him--' and
therewith one imp pulled him backwards again, while others danced a war-dance round him, pointing
their forks at him; and the prime tormentor, whom he perfectly recognized, not only leapt over
him, but spurned at his face with a cloven foot, giving a blow, not of gay French malice, but
of malignity. It was too much for the boy's forbearance. He struggled free, dashing his adversaries
aside fiercely, and as they again gathered about him, with the leader shouting, 'Rage, too,
rage! To the prey, imps--' he clenched his fist, and dealt the foremost foe such a blow in
the chest as to level him at once with the ground.

'Monsieur forgets,' said a voice, friendly yet reproachful, 'that this is but sport.

It was Henry of Navarre himself who spoke, and bent to give a hand to the fallen imp. A flush
of shame rushed over Berenger's face, already red with passion. He felt that he had done wrong
to use his strength at such a moment, and that, though there had been spite in is assailant,
he had not been therefore justified. He was glad to see Narcisse rise lightly to his feet,
evidently unhurt, and, with the frankness with which he had often made it up with Philip Thistlewood
or his other English comrades after a sharp tussle, he held out his hand, saying, 'Good demon,
your pardon. You roused my spirit, and I forgot myself.'

'Demons forget not,' was the reply. 'At him, imps!' And a whole circle of hobgoblins closed
upon with their tridents, forks, and other horrible implements, to drive him back within two
tall barred gates, which, illuminated by red flames, were to form the ghastly prison of the
vanquished. Perhaps fresh indignities would have been attempted, had not the King of Navarre
thrown himself on his side, shared with him the brunt of all the grotesque weapons, and battled
them off with infinite spirit and address, shielding him as it were from their rude insults
by his own dexterity and inviolability, though retreating all the time till the infernal gates
were closed on both.

Then Henry of Navarre, who never forgot a face, held out his hand, saying, 'Tartarus is no
region of good omen for friendships, M. de Ribaumont, but, for lack of yonder devil's claw,
here is mine. I like to meet a comrade who can strike a hearty blow, and ask a hearty pardon.'

'I was too hot, Sire,' confessed Berenger, with one of his ingenuous blushes, 'but he enraged me.'

'He means mischief.' said Henry. 'Remember, if you are molested respecting this matter, that
you have here a witness that you did the part of a gentleman.'

Berenger bowed his thanks, and began something about the honour, but his eye anxiously followed
the circuit on which Eustacie was carried and the glance was quickly remarked.

'How? Your heart is spinning in that Mahometan paradise, and that is what put such force into
your fists. Which of the houris is it? The little one with the wistful eyes, who looked so
deadly white, and shrieked out when the devilry overturned you? Eh! Monsieur, you are a happy man.'

'I should be, Sire;' and Berenger was on the point of confiding the situation of his affairs
to this most engaging of princes, when a fresh supply of prisoners, chased with wild antics
and fiendish yells by the devils, came headlong in on them; and immediately, completing, as
Henry said, the galimatias of mythology, a pasteboard cloud was propelled on the stage, and
disclosed the deities Mercury and Cupid, who made a complimentary address to the three princely
brothers, inciting them to claim the nymphs whom their valour had defended, and lead them through
the mazes of a choric celestial dance.

This dance had been the special device of Monsieur and the ballet-master, and during the last
three days the houris had been almost danced off their legs with rehearsing it morning, noon,
and night, but one at least of them was scarcely in a condition for its performance. Eustacie,
dizzied at the first minute by the whirl of her Elysian merry-go-round, had immediately after
become conscious of that which she had been too childish to estimate merely in prospect, the
exposure to universal gaze. Strange staring eyes, glaring lights, frightful imps seemed to
wheel round her in an intolerable delirious succession. Her only refuge was in closing her
eyes, but even this could not long be persevered in, so necessary a part of the pageant was
she; and besides, she had Berenger to look for, Berenger, whom she had foolishly laughed at
for knowing how dreadful it would be. But of course the endeavour to seek for one object with
her eyes made the dizziness even more dreadful; and when, at length, she beheld him dragged
down by the demoniacal creatures, whose horrors were magnified by her confused senses, and
the next moment she was twirled out of sight, her cry of distracted alarm was irrepressible.
Carried round again and again, on a wheel that to her was far more like Ixion's than that of
the spheres, she never cleared her perceptions as to where he was, and only was half-maddened
by the fantastic whirl of incongruous imagery, while she barely sat out Mercury's lengthy harangue;
and when her wheel stood still, and she was released, she could not stand, and was indebted
to Charon and one of her fellow-nymphs for supporting her to a chair in the back of the scene.
Kind Charon hurried to bring her wine, the lady revived her with essences, and the ballet-master
clamoured for his performers.

Ill or well, royal ballets must be danced. One long sob, one gaze round at the refreshing sight
of a room no longer in motion, one wistful look at the gates of Tartarus, and the misery of
the throbbing, aching head must be disregarded. The ballet-master touched the white cheeks
with rouge, and she stepped forward just in time, for Monsieur himself was coming angrily forward
to learn the cause of the delay.

Spectators said the windings of that dance were exquisitely graceful. It was well that Eustacie's
drilling had been so complete, for she moved through it blindly, senselessly, and when it was
over was led back between the two Demoiselles de Limeuil to the apartment that served as a
green-room, drooping and almost fainting. They seated her in a chair, and consulted round her,
and her cousin Narcisse was among the first to approach; but no sooner had she caught sight
of his devilish trim than with a little shriek she shut her eyes, and flung herself to the
other side of the chair.

'My fair cousin,' he said, opening his black vizard, 'do you not see me? I am no demon, remember!
I am your cousin.'

'That makes it no better,' said Eustacie, too much disordered and confused to be on her guard,
and hiding her face with her hands. 'Go, go, I entreat.'

In fact he had already done this, and the ladies added their counsel; for indeed the poor child
could scarcely hold up her head, but she said, 'I should like to stay, if I could: a little,
a little longer. Will they not open those dreadful bars?' she added, presently.

'They are even now opening them,' said Mdlle. de Limeuil. 'Hark! they are going to fight en
melle. Mdlle. de Nid de Merle is better now?'

'Oh yes; let not detain you.'

Eustacie would have risen, but the two sisters had fluttered back, impatient to lose nothing
of the sports; and her cousin in his grim disguise stood full before her. 'No haste, cousin,'
he said; 'you are not fit to move.'

'Oh, then go,' said Eustacie, suffering too much not to be petulant. 'You make me worse.'

'And why? It was not always thus,' began Narcisse, so eager to seize an opportunity as to have
little consideration for her condition; but she was unable to bear any more, and broke out:
'Yes, it was; I always detested you more than ever, since you deceived me so cruelly. Oh, do
but leave me!'

'You scorn me, then! You prefer to me--who have loved you so long--that childish new-comer,
who was ready enough to cast you off.'

'Prefer! He is my husband! It is an insult for any one else to speak to me thus!' said Eustacie,
drawing herself up, and rising to her feet; but she was forced to hold by the back of her chair,
and Diane and her father appearing at that moment, she tottered towards the former, and becoming
quite passive under the influence of violent dizziness and headache, made no objection to being
half led, half carried, through galleries that connected the Hotel de Bourbon with the Louvre.

And thus it was that when Berenger had fought out his part in the melle of the prisoners released,
and had maintained the honours of the rose-coloured token in his helmet, he found that his
lady-love had been obliged by indisposition to return home; and while he stood, folding his
arms to restrain their strong inclination to take Narcisse by the throat and demand whether
this were another of his deceptions, a train of fireworks suddenly exploded in the middle of
the Styx--a last surprise, especially contrived by King Charles, and so effectual that half
the ladies were shrieking, and imagining that they and the whole hall had blown up together.

A long supper, full of revelry, succeeded, and at length Sidney ad Ribaumont walked home together
in the midst of their armed servants bearing torches. All the way home Berenger was bitter
in vituperation of the hateful pageant and all its details.

'Yea, truly,' replied Sidney; 'methought that it betokens disease in the mind of a nation when
their festive revelry is thus ghastly, rendering the most awful secrets made known by our God
in order to warm man from sin into a mere antic laughing-stock. Laughter should be moved by
what is fair and laughter-worthy--even like such sports as our own "Midsummer Night's Dream."
I have read that the bloody temper of Rome fed itself in gladiator shows, and verily, what
we beheld to-night betokens something at once grisly and light-minded in the mood of this country.'

Sidney thought so the more when on the second ensuing morning the Admiral de Coligny was shot
through both hands by an assassin generally known to have been posted by the Duke of Guise,
yet often called by the sinister sobriquet of Le Tueur de Roi.

CHAPTER XI. THE KING'S TRAGEDY.

     The night is come, no fears disturb
     The sleep of innocence
     They trust in kingly faith, and kingly oath.
     They sleep, alas! they sleep
     Go to the palace, wouldst thou know
     How hideous night can be;
     Eye is not closed in those accursed walls,
     Nor heart is quiet there!
                       --Southey, BARTHOLOMEW'S EVE

'Young gentlemen,' said Sir Francis Walsingham, as he rose from dinner on the Saturday, 'are
you bound for the palace this evening?'

'I am, so please your Excellency,' returned Berenger.

'I would have you both to understand that you must have a care of yourselves,' said the Ambassador.
'The Admiral's wound has justly caused much alarm, and I hear that the Protestants are going
vapouring about in so noisy and incautious a manner, crying out for justice, that it is but
too likely that the party of the Queen-mother and the Guise will be moved to strong measures.'

'They will never dare lay a finger upon us!' said Sidney.

'In a terror-stricken fray men are no respecters of persons,' replied Sir Francis. 'This house
is, of course, inviolable; and, whatever the madness of the people, we have stout hearts enough
here to enforce respect thereto; but I cannot answer even for an Englishman's life beyond its
precincts; and you, Ribaumont, whom I cannot even claim as my Queen's subject--I greatly fear
to trust you beyond its bounds.'

'I cannot help it, sir. Nay, with the most grateful thanks for all your goodness to me, I must
pray you not to take either alarm or offence if I return not this night.'

'No more, my friend,' said Walsingham, quickly; 'let me know nothing of your purposes, but
take care of yourself. I would you were safe at home again, though the desire may seem inhospitable.
The sooner the better with whatever you have to do.'

'Is the danger so imminent?' asked Sidney.

'I know nothing, Philip. All I can tell is that, as I have read that dogs and cattle scent
an earthquake in the air, so man and women seem to breathe a sense of danger in this city.
And to me the graciousness with which the Huguenots have been of late treated wears a strangely
suspicious air. Sudden and secret is the blow like to be, and we cannot be too much on our
guard. Therefore remember, my young friends both, that your danger or death would fall heavily
on those ye love and honour at home.'

So saying, he left the two youths, unwilling to seek further confidence, and Berenger held
his last consultation with Sidney, to whom he gave directions for making full explanation to
Walsingham in his absence, and expediting Mr. Adderley's return to England. Osbert alone was
to go to the Louvre with him, after having seen the five English grooms on board the little
decked market-vessel on the Seine, which was to await the fugitives. Berenger was to present
himself in the palace as in his ordinary court attendance, and, contriving to elude notice
among the throng who were there lodged, was to take up his station at the foot of the stairs
leading to the apartments of ladies, whence Eustacie was to descend at about eleven o'clock,
with her maid Veronique. Landry Osbert was to join them from the lackey's hall below, where
he had a friend, and the connivance of the porter at the postern opening towards the Seine
had been secured.

Sidney wished much to accompany him to the palace, if his presence could be any aid or protection,
but on consideration it was decided that his being at the Louvre was likely to attract notice
to Ribaumont's delaying there. The two young men therefore shook hands and parted, as youths
who trusted that they had begun a lifelong friendship, with mutual promises to write to one
another--the one, the adventures of his flight; the other, the astonishment it would excite.
And auguries were exchanged of merry meetings in London, and of the admiration the lovely little
wife would excite at Queen Elizabeth's court.

Then, with an embrace such as English friends then gave, they separated at the gate; and Sidney
stood watching, as Berenger walked free and bold down the street, his sword at his side, his
cloak over one shoulder, his feathered cap on one side, showing his bright curling hair, a
sunshiny picture of a victorious bridegroom--such a picture as sent Philip Sidney's wits back
to Arcadia.

It was not a day of special state, but the palace was greatly crowded. The Huguenots were in
an excited mood, inclined to rally round Henry of Navarre, whose royal title made him be looked
on as is a manner their monarch, though his kingdom had been swallowed by Spain, and he was
no more than a French duke distantly related to royalty in the male line, and more nearly through
his grandmother and bride. The eight hundred gentlemen he had brought with him swarmed about
his apartments, making their lodging on staircases and in passages; and to Berenger it seemed
as if the King's guards and Monsieur's gentlemen must have come in in equal numbers to balance
them. Narcisse was there, and Berenger kept cautiously amid his Huguenot acquaintance, resolved
not to have a quarrel thrust on him which he could not honourably desert. It was late before
he could work his way to the young Queen's reception-room, where he found Eustacie. She looked
almost as white as at the masque; but there was a graver, less childish expression in her face
than he had ever seen before, and her eyes glanced confidence when they met his.

Behind the Queen's chair a few words could be spoken.

'Ma mie, art thou well again? Canst bear this journey now?'

'Quite well, now! quite ready. Oh that we may never have masques in England!'

He smiled--'Never such as this!'

'Ah! thou knowest best. I am glad I am thine already; I am so silly, thou wouldest never have
chosen me! But thou wilt teach me, and I will strive to be very good! And oh! let me but give
one farewell to Diane.'

'It is too hard to deny thee aught to-night, sweetheart, but judge for thyself. Think of the
perils, and decide.'

Before Eustacie could answer, a rough voice came near, the King making noisy sport with the
Count de Rochefoucauld and others. He was louder and ruder than Berenger had ever yet seen
him, almost giving the notion of intoxication; but neither he nor his brother Henry ever tasted
wine, though both had a strange pleasure in being present at the orgies of their companions:
the King, it was generally said, from love of the self-forgetfulness of excitement--the Duke
of Anjou, because his cool brain there collected men's secrets to serve afterwards for his
spiteful diversion.

Berenger would willingly have escaped notice, but his bright face and sunny hair always made
him conspicuous, and the King suddenly strode up to him: 'You here, sir? I thought you would
have managed your affairs so as to be gone long ago!' then before Berenger could reply, 'However,
since here you are, come along with me to my bedchamber! We are to have a carouse there to-night
that will ring through all Paris! Yes, and shake Rochefoucauld out of his bed at midnight!
You will be one of us, Ribaumont? I command it!'

And without waiting for reply he turned away with an arm round Rochefoucauld's neck, and boisterously
addressed another of the company, almost as wildly as if he were in the mood that Scots call 'fey.'

'Royalty seems determined to frustrate our plans,' said Berenger, as soon as the King was out
of hearing.

'But you will not go! His comrades drink till--oh! two, three in the morning. We should never
get away.'

'No, I must risk his displeasure. We shall soon be beyond his reach. But at least I may make
his invitation a reason for remaining in the Louvre. People are departing! Soon wilt thou be
my own.'

'As soon as the Queen's COUCHER is over! I have but to change to a traveling dress.'

'At the foot of the winding stair. Sweetest be brave!'

'I fear nothing with thee to guard me. See, the Queen is rising.'

Elizabeth was in effect rising to make her respectful progress to the rooms of the Queen-mother,
to bid her good night; and Eustacie must follow. Would Diane be there? Oh that the command
to judge between her heart and her caution had not been given! Cruel kindness!

Diane was there, straight as a poplar, cold as marble, with fixed eyes. Eustacie stole up to
her, and touched her. She turned with a start. 'Cousin, you have been very good to me!' Diane
started again, as if stung. You will love me still, whatever you hear?'

'Is this meant for farewell?' said Diane, grasping her wrist.

'Do not ask me, Diane. I may not.'

'Where there is no trust there is no treason,' said Diane, dreamily. 'No, answer me not, little
one, there will be time for that another day. Where is he?'

'In the oeil-de-boeuf, between the King's and Queen's suites of rooms. I must go. There is
the Queen going. Diane, one loving word.'

'Silly child, you shall have plenty another time,' said Diane, breaking away. 'Follow thy Queen
now!'

Catherine, who sat between her daughters Claude and Marguerite, looked pre-occupied, and summarily
dismissed her daughter-in-law, Elizabeth, whom Eustacie was obliged to follow to her own state-room.
There all the forms of the COUCHER were tediously gone through; every pin had its own ceremony,
and even when her Majesty was safely deposited under her blue satin coverlet the ladies still
stood round till she felt disposed to fall asleep. Elisabeth was both a sleepy and a considerate
person, so that this was not so protracted a vigil as was sometimes exacted by the more wakeful
princesses; but Eustacie could not escape from it till it was already almost midnight, the
period for her tryst.

Her heart was very full. It was not the usual flutter and terror of an eloping girl. Eustacie
was a fearless little being, and her conscience had no alarms; her affections were wholly with
Berenger, and her transient glimpses of him had been as of something come out of a region higher,
tenderer, stronger, purer, more trustworthy than that where she had dwelt. She was proud of
belonging to him. She had felt upheld by the consciousness through years of waiting, and now
he more than realized her hopes, and she could have wept for exulting joy. Yet it was a strange,
stealthy break with all she had to leave behind. The light to which he belonged seemed strange,
chill, dazzling light, and she shivered at the thought of it, as if the new world, new ideas,
and new requirements could only be endured with him to shield her and help her on. And withal,
there seemed to her a shudder over the whole place on that night. The King's eyes looked wild
and startled, the Queen-mother's calm was strained, the Duchess of Lorraine was evidently in
a state of strong nervous excitement; there were strange sounds, strange people moving about,
a weight on everything, as if they were under the shadow of a thunder-cloud. 'Could it be only
her own fancy?' she said to herself, because this was to be the great event of her life, for
surely all these great people could not know or heed that little Eustacie de Ribaumont was
to make her escape that night!

The trains of royalty were not sumptuously lodged. France never has cared so much for comfort
as for display. The waiting-lady of the bedchamber slept in the ante-room of her mistress;
the others, however high their rank, were closely herded together up a winding stair leading
to a small passage, with tiny, cell-like recesses, wherein the demoiselles slept, often with
their maids, and then dressed themselves in the space afforded by the passage. Eustacie's cell
was nearly at the end of the gallery, and exchanging 'good-nights' with her companions, she
proceeded to her recess, where she expected to find Veronique ready to adjust her dress. Veronique,
however, was missing; but anxious to lose no time, she had taken off her delicate white satin
farthingale to change it for an unobtrusive dark woolen kirtle, when, to her surprise and dismay,
a loud creaking, growling sound made itself heard outside the door at the other end. Half-a-dozen
heads came out of their cells; half-a-dozen voices asked and answered the question, 'What is
it?' 'They are bolting our door outside.' But only Eustacie sped like lightning along the passage,
pulled at the door, and cried, 'Open! Open, I say!' No answer, but the other bolt creaked.

'You mistake, CONCIERGE! We are never bolted in! My maid is shut out.'

No answer, but the step retreated. Eustacie clasped her hands with a cry that she could hardly
have repressed, but which she regretted the next moment.

Gabrielle de Limeuil laughed. 'What, Mademoiselle, are you afraid they will not let us out
to-morrow?'

'My maid!' murmured Eustacie, recollecting that she must give a colour to her distress.

'Ah! perhaps she will summon old Pierre to open for us.'

This suggestion somewhat consoled Eustacie, and she stood intently listening for Veronique's
step, wishing that her companions would hold their peace; but the adventure amused them, and
they discussed whether it were a blunder of the CONCIERGE, or a piece of prudery of Madame
la Comtesse, or, after all, a precaution. The palace so full of strange people, who could say
what might happen? And there was a talk of a conspiracy of the Huguenots. At any rate, every
one was too much frightened to go to sleep, and, some sitting on the floor, some on a chest,
some on a bed, the girls huddled together in Gabrielle de Limeuil's recess, the nearest to
the door, and one after another related horrible tales of blood, murder, and vengeance--then,
alas! Only too frequent occurrences in their unhappy land--each bringing some frightful contribution
from her own province, each enhancing upon the last-told story, and ever and anon pausing with
bated breath at some fancied sound, or supposed start of one of the others; then clinging close
together, and renewing the ghastly anecdote, at first in a hushed voice that grew louder with
the interest of the story. Eustacie alone would not join the cluster. Her cloak round her shoulders,
she stood with her back against the door, ready to profit by the slightest indication outside
of a step that might lead to her release, or at least enable her to communicate with Veronique;
longing ardently that her companions would go to bed, yet unable to avoid listening with the
like dreadful fascination to each of the terrible histories, which added each moment to the
nervous horror of the whole party. Only one, a dull and composed girl, felt the influence of
weariness, and dozed with her head in her companion's lap; but she was awakened by one general
shudder and suppressed cry when the hoarse clang of a bell struck on the ears of the already
terrified, excited maidens.

'The tocsin! The bell of St. Germain! Fire! No, a Huguenot rising! Fire! Oh, let us out! Let
us out! The window! Where is the fire? Nowhere! See the lights! Hark, that was a shot! It was
in the palace! A heretic rising! Ah! there was to be a slaughter of the heretics! I heard it
whispered. Oh, let us out! Open the door!'

But nobody heard: nobody opened. There was one who stood without word or cry, close to the
door--her eyes dilated, her cheek colourless, her whole person, soul and body alike, concentrated
in that one impulse to spring forward the first moment the bolt should be drawn. But still
the door remained fast shut!

CHAPTER XII. THE PALACE OF SLAUGHTER

     A human shambles with blood-reeking floor.
            MISS SWANWICK, Esch. Agamemnon

The door was opened at last, but not till full daylight. It found Eustacie as ready to rush
forth, past all resistance, as she had been the night before, and she was already in the doorway
when her maid Veronique, her face swollen with weeping, caught her by the hands and implored
her to turn back and listen.

And words about a rising of the Huguenots, a general destruction, corpses lying in the court,
were already passing between the other maidens and the CONCIERGE. Eustacie turned upon her
servant: 'Veronique, what means it? Where is he?'

'Alas! alas! Ah! Mademoiselle, do but lie down! Woe is me! I saw it all! Lie down, and I will
tell you.'

'Tell! I will not move till you have told me where my husband is,' said Eustacie, gazing with
eyes that seemed to Veronique turned to stone.

'Ah! my lady--my dear lady! I was on the turn of the stairs, and saw all. The traitor--the
Chevalier Narcisse--came on him, cloaked like you--and--shot him dead--with, oh, such cruel
words of mockery! Oh! woe the day! Stay, stay, dear lady, the place is all blood--they are
slaying them all--all the Huguenots! Will no one stop her?--Mademoiselle--ma'm'selle!--'

For Eustacie no sooner gathered the sense of Veronique's words than she darted suddenly forwards,
and was in a few seconds more at the foot of the stairs. There, indeed, lay a pool of dark
gore, and almost in it Berenger's black velvet cap, with the heron plume. Eustacie, with a
low cry, snatched it up, continued her headlong course along the corridor, swiftly as a bird,
Veronique following, and vainly shrieking to her to stop. Diane, appearing at the other end
of the gallery, saw but for a moment the little figure, with the cloak gathered round her neck,
and floating behind her, understood Veronique's cry and joined in the chase across hall and
gallery, where more stains were to be seen, even down to the marble stairs, every step slippery
with blood. Others there were who saw and stood aghast, not understanding the apparition that
flitted on so swiftly, never pausing till at the great door at the foot of the stairs she encountered
a gigantic Scottish archer, armed to the teeth. She touched his arm, and standing with folder
arms, looked up and said, 'Good soldier, kill me! I am a Huguenots!'

'Stop her! bring her back!' cried Diane from behind. 'It is Mdlle. De Nil-de-Merle!'

'No, no! My husband is Huguenot! I am a Huguenot! Let them kill me, I say!'--struggling with
Diane, who had now come up with her, and was trying to draw her back.

'Puir lassie!' muttered the stout Scotsman to himself, 'this fearsome night has driven her
demented.'

But, like a true sentinel, he moved neither hand nor foot to interfere, as shaking herself
loose from Diane, she was springing down the steps into the court, when at that moment the
young Abbe de Mericour was seen advancing, pale, breathless, horrorstruck, and to him Diane
shrieked to arrest the headlong course. He obeyed, seeing the wild distraction of the white
face and widely glaring eyes, took her by both hands, and held her in a firm grasp, saying,
'Alas, lady, you cannot go out. It is no sight for any one.'

'They are killing the Protestants,' she said; 'I am one! Let me find them and die.'

A strong effort to free herself ensued, but it was so suddenly succeeded by a swoon that the
Abbe could scarcely save her from dropping on the steps. Diane begged him to carry her in,
since they were in full view of men-at-arms in the court, and, frightful to say, of some of
the ladies of the palace, who, in the frenzy of that dreadful time, had actually come down
to examine the half-stripped corpses of the men with whom they had jested not twelve hours before.

'Ah! it is no wonder,' said the youthful Abbe, as he tenderly lifted the inanimate figure.
'This has been a night of horrors. I was coming in haste to know whether the King knows of
this frightful plot of M. de Guise, and the bloody work that is passing in Paris.'

'The King!' exclaimed Diane. 'M. l'Abbe, do you know where he is now? In the balcony overlooking
the river, taking aim at the fugitives! Take care! Even your soutane would not save you if
M. d'O and his crew heard you. But I must pray you to aid me with this poor child! I dread
that her wild cries should be heard.'

The Abbe, struck dumb with horror, silently obeyed Mdlle. De Ribaumont, and brought the still
insensible Eustacie to the chamber, now deserted by all the young ladies. He laid her on her
bed, and finding he could do no more, left her to her cousin and her maid.

The poor child had been unwell and feverish ever since the masque, and the suspense of these
few days with the tension of that horrible night had prostrated her. She only awoke from her
swoon to turn her head from the light and refuse to be spoken to.

'But, Eustacie, child, listen; this is all in vain--he lives,' said Diane.

'Weary me not with falsehoods,' faintly said Eustacie.

'No! no! no! They meant to hinder your flight, but---'

'They knew of it?' cried Eustacie, sitting up suddenly. 'Then you told them. Go--go; let me
never see you more! You have been his death!'

'Listen! I am sure he lives! What! would they injure one whom my father loved? I heard my father
say he would not have him hurt. Depend upon it, he is safe on his way to England.'

Eustacie gave a short but frightful hysterical laugh, and pointed to Veronique. 'She saw it,'
she said; 'ask her.'

'Saw what?' said Diane, turning fiercely on Veronique. 'What vile deceit have you half killed
your lady with?'

'Alas! Mademoiselle, I did but tell her what I had seen,' sighed Veronique, trembling.

'Tell me!' said Diane, passionately.

'Yes, everything,' said Eustacie, sitting up.

'Ah! Mademoiselle, it will make you ill again.'

'I WILL be ill--I WILL die! Heaven's slaying is better than man's. Tell her how you saw Narcisse.'

'False girl!' burst out Diane.

'No, no,' cried Veronique. 'Oh, pardon me, Mademoiselle, I could not help it.'

In spite of her reluctance, she was forced to tell that she had found herself locked out of
her mistress's room, and after losing much time in searching for the CONCIERGE, learnt that
the ladies were locked up by order of the Queen-mother, and was strongly advised not to be
running about the passages. After a time, however, while sitting with the CONCIERGE'S wife,
she heard such frightful whispers from men with white badges, who were admitted one by one
by the porter, and all led silently to a small lower room, that she resolved on seeking out
the Baron's servant, and sending him to warn his master, while she would take up her station
at her lady's door. She found Osbert, and with him was ascending a narrow spiral leading from
the offices--she, unfortunately, the foremost. As she came to the top, a scuffle was going
on--four men had thrown themselves upon one, and a torch distinctly showed her the younger
Chevalier holding a pistol to the cheek of the fallen man, and she heard the worlds, 'Le baiser
d'Eustacie! Jet e barbouillerai ce chien de visage,' and at the same moment the pistol was
discharged. She sprang back, oversetting, as she believed, Osbert, and fled shrieking to the
room of the CONCIERGE, who shut her in till morning.

'And how--how,' stammered Diane, 'should you know it was the Baron?'

Eustacie, with a death-like look, showed for a moment what even in her swoon she had held clenched
to her bosom, the velvet cap soaked with blood.

'Besides,' added Veronique, resolved to defend her assertion, 'whom else would the words suit?
Besides, are not all the heretic gentlemen dead? Why, as I sat there in the porter's room,
I heard M. d'O call each one of them by name, one after the other, into the court, and there
the white-sleeves cut them down or pistolled them like sheep for the slaughter. They lie all
out there on the terrace like so many carcases at market ready for winter salting.'

'All slain?' said Eustacie, dreamily.

'All, except those that the King called into his own garde robe.'

'Then, I slew him!' Eustacie sank back.

'I tell you, child,' said Diane, almost angrily, 'he lives. Not a hair of his head was to be
hurt! The girl deceives you.'

But Eustacie had again become insensible, and awoke delirious, entreating to have the door
opened, and fancying herself still on the revolving elysium, 'Oh, demons, have pity!' was her cry.

Diane's soothings were like speaking to the winds; and at last she saw the necessity of calling
in further aid; but afraid of the scandal that the poor girl's raving accusations might create,
she would not send for the Huguenots surgeon, Ambroise Pare, whom the King had carefully secured
in his own apartments, but employed one of the barber valets of the Queen-mother's household.
Poor Eustacie was well pleased to see her blood flowing, and sank back on her pillow murmuring
that she had confessed her husband's faith, and would soon be one with him, and Diane feared
for a moment lest the swoon should indeed be death.

The bleeding was so far effectual that it diminished the fever, and Eustacie became rational
again when she had dozed and wakened, but she was little able or willing to speak, and would
not so much as listen to Diane's asseverations that Veronique had made a frightful error, and
that the Baron would prove to be alive. Whether it were that the admission that Diane had known
of the project for preventing the elopement that invalidated her words, or whether the sufferer's
instinct made her believe Veronique's testimony rather than her cousin's assurances, it was
all 'cramming words into her ear against the stomach of her sense,' and she turned away from
them with a piteous, petulant hopelessness: 'Could they not even let her alone to die in peace!'

Diane was almost angered at this little silly child being in such an agony of sorrow--she,
who could never have known how to love him. And after all this persistent grief was willfully
thrown away. For Diane spoke in perfect sincerity when she taxed Veronique with an injurious,
barbarous mistake. She knew her father's strong aversion to violence, and the real predilection
that Berenger's good mien, respectful manners, and liberal usage had won from him, and she
believed he had much rather the youth lived, provided he were inoffensive. No doubt a little
force had been necessary to kidnap one so tall, active, and determined, and Veronique had made
up her horrible tale after the usual custom of waiting-maids.

Nothing else SHOULD be true. Did she think otherwise, she should be even more frantic than
Eustacie! Why, it would be her own doing! She had betrayed the day of the escape--she had held
aloof from warning. There was pleasure in securing Nid-de-Merle for her brother, pleasure in
balking the foolish child who had won the heart that disregarded her. Nay, there might have
been even pleasure in the destruction of the scorner of her charms--the foe of her house--there
might have been pride in receiving Queen Catherine's dexterous hint that she had been an apt
pupil, if the young Baron had only been something different--something less fair, gracious,
bright, and pure. One bright angel seemed to have flitted across her path, and nothing should
induce her to believe she had destroyed him.

The stripped corpses of the murdered Huguenots of the palace had been laid in a line on the
terrace, and the ladies who had laughed with them the night before went to inspect them in
death. A few remnants of Soeur Monique's influence would have withheld Diane, but that a frenzy
of suspense was growing on her. She must see for herself. If it were so, she must secure a
fragment of the shining flaxen hair, if only as a token that anything so pure and bright had
walked the earth.

She went on the horrible quest, shrinking where others stared. For it was a pitiless time,
and the squadron of the Queen-mother were as lost to womanhood as the fishwomen of two centuries
later. But Diane saw no corpse at once so tall, so young, and so fair, though blond Normans
and blue-blooded Franks, lads scarce sixteen and stalwart warriors, lay in one melancholy rank.
She at least bore away the certainly that the English Ribaumont was not there; and if not,
he MUST be safe! She could obtain no further certainty, for she knew that she must not expect
to see either her father or brother. There was a panic throughout the city. All Paris imagined
that the Huguenots were on the point of rising and slaying all the Catholics, and, with the
savagery of alarmed cowardice, the citizens and the mob were assisting the armed bands of the
Dukes of Anjou and Guise to complete the slaughter, dragging their lodgers from their hiding-places,
and denouncing all whom they suspected of reluctance to mass and confession. But on the Monday,
Diane was able to send an urgent message to her father that he must come to speak with her,
for Mdlle. De Nid-de-Merle was extremely ill. She would meet him in the garden after morning mass.

There accordingly, when she stepped forth pale, rigid, but stately, with her large fan in her
hand to serve as a parasol, she met both him and her brother. She was for a moment sorry, for
she had much power over her father, while she was afraid of her brother's sarcastic tongue
and eye; she knew he never scrupled to sting her wherever she was most sensitive, and she would
have been able to extract much more from her father in his absence. France has never been without
a tendency to produce the tiger-monkey, or ferocious fop; and the GENUS was in its full ascendancy
under the sons of Catherine de Medicis, when the dregs of Francois the First's PSEUDO-chivalry
were not extinct--when horrible, retaliating civil wars of extermination had made life cheap;
nefarious persecutions had hardened the heart and steeled the eye, and the licentiousness promoted
by the shifty Queen as one of her instruments of government had darkened the whole understanding.
The most hateful heights of perfidy, effeminacy, and hypocrisy were not reached till poor Charles
IX., who only committed crimes on compulsion, was in his grave, and Henry III. on the throne;
but Narcisse de Ribaumont was one of the choice companions of the latter, and after the night
and day of murder now stood before his sister with scented hair and handkerchief--the last,
laced, delicately held by a hand in an embroidered glove--emerald pendants in his ears, a moustache
twisted into sharp points and turned up like an eternal sardonic smile, and he led a little
white poodle by a rose-coloured ribbon.

'Well, sister,' he said, as he went, through the motions of kissing her hand, and she embraced
her father; 'so you don't know how to deal with megrims and transports?'

'Father,' said Diane, not vouchsafing any attention, 'unless you can send her some assurance
of his life, I will not answer for the consequences.'

Narcisse laughed: 'Take her this dog, with my compliments. That is the way to deal with such
a child as that.'

'You do not know what you say, brother,' answered Diane with dignity. 'It goes deeper than that.'

'The deeper it goes, child,' said the elder Chevalier, 'the better it is that she should be
undeceived as soon as possible. She will recover, and be amenable the sooner.'

'Then he lives, father?' exclaimed Diane. 'He lives, though she is not to hear it--say----'

'What know I?' said the old man, evasively. 'On a night of confusion many mischances are sure
to occur! Lurking in the palace at the very moment when there was a search for the conspirators,
it would have been a miracle had the poor young man escaped.'

Diane turned still whiter. 'Then,' she said, 'that was why you made Monsieur put Eustacie into
the ballet, that they might not go on Wednesday!'

'It was well hinted by you, daughter. We could not have effectually stopped them on Wednesday
without making a scandal.'

'Once more,' said Diane, gasping, though still resolute; 'is not the story told by Eustacie's
woman false--that she saw him--pistolled--by you, brother?'

'Peste!' cried Narcisse. 'Was the prying wench there? I thought the little one might be satisfied
that he had neighbour's fare. No matter; what is done for one's beaux yeux is easily pardoned--and
if not, why, I have her all the same!'

'Nevertheless, daughter,' said the Chevalier, gravely, 'the woman must be silenced. Either
she must be sent home, or taught so to swear to having been mistaken, that la petite may acquit
your brother! But what now, my daughter?'

'She is livid!' exclaimed Narcisse, with his sneer. 'What, sir, did not you know she was smitten
with the peach on the top of a pole?'

'Enough, brother,' said Diane, recovering herself enough to speak hoarsely, but with hard dignity.
'You have slain--you need not insult, one whom you have lost the power of understanding!'

'Shallow schoolboys certainly form no part of my study, save to kick them down-stairs when
they grow impudent,' said Narcisse, coolly. 'It is only women who think what is long must be
grand.'

'Come, children, no disputes,' said the Chevalier. 'Of course we regret that so fine a youth
mixed himself up with the enemies of the kingdom, like the stork among the sparrows. Both Diane
and I are sorry for the necessity; but remember, child, that when he was interfering between
your brother and his just right of inheritance and destined wife, he could not but draw such
a fate on himself. Now all is smooth, the estates will be united in their true head, and you--you
too, my child, will be provided for as suits your name. All that is needed is to soothe the
little one, so as to hinder her from making an outcry--and silence the maid; my child will
do her best for her father's sake, and that of her family.'

Diane was less demonstrative than most of her countrywomen. She had had time to recollect the
uselessness of giving vent to her indignant anguish, and her brother's derisive look held her
back. The family tactics, from force of habit, recurred to her; she made no further objection
to her father's commands; but when her father and brother parted with her, she tottered into
the now empty chapel, threw herself down, with her burning forehead on the stone step, and
so lay for hours. It was not in prayer. It was because it was the only place where she could
be alone. To her, heaven above and earth below seemed alike full of despair, darkness, and
cruel habitations, and she lay like one sick with misery and repugnance to the life and world
that lay before her--the hard world that had quenched that one fair light and mocked her pity.
It was a misery of solitude, and yet no thought crossed her of going to weep and sympathize
with the other sufferer. No; rivalry and jealousy came in there! Eustacie viewed herself as
his wife, and the very thought that she had been deliberately preferred and had enjoyed her
triumph hardened Diane's heart against her. Nay, the open violence and abandonment of her grief
seemed to the more restrained and concentrated nature of her elder a sign of shallowness and
want of durability; and in a certain contemptuous envy at her professing a right to mourn,
Diane never even reconsidered her own resolution to play out her father's game, consign Eustacie
to her husband's murdered, and leave her to console herself with bridal splendours and a choice
of admirers from all the court.

However, for the present Diane would rather stay away as much as possible from the sick-bed
of the poor girl; and when an approaching step forced her to rouse herself and hurry away by
the other door of the chapel, she did indeed mount to the ladies' bed-chamber, but only to
beckon Veronique out of hearing and ask for her mistress.

Just the same still, only sleeping to have feverish dreams of the revolving wheel or the demons
grappling her husband, refusing all food but a little drink, and lying silent except for a
few moans, heedless who spoke or looked at her.

Diane explained that in that case it was needless to come to her, but added, with the vraisemblance
of falsehood in which she had graduated in Catherine's school, 'Veronique, as I told you, you
were mistaken.'

'Ah, Mademoiselle, if M. le Baron lives, she will be cured at once.'

'Silly girl,' said Diane, giving relief to her pent-up feeling by asperity of manner, 'how
could he live when you and your intrigues got him into the palace on such a night? Dead he
is, OF COURSE; but it was your own treacherous, mischievous fancy that laid it on my brother.
He was far away with M. de Guise at the attack on the Admiral. It was some of Monsieur's grooms
you saw. You remember she had brought him into a scrape with Monsieur, and it was sure to be
remembered. And look you, if you repeat the other tale, and do not drive it out of her head,
you need not look to be long with her--no, nor at home. My father will have no one there to
cause a scandal by an evil tongue.'

That threat convinced Veronique that she had been right; but she, too, had learnt lessons at
the Louvre, and she was too diplomatic not to ask pardon for her blunder, promise to contradict
it when her mistress could listen, and express her satisfaction that it was not the Chevalier
Narcisse--for such things were not pleasant, as she justly observed, in families.

About noon on the Tuesday the Louvre was unusually tranquil. All the world had gone forth to
a procession to Notre Dame, headed by the King and all the royal family, to offer thanksgiving
for the deliverance of the country from the atrocious conspiracy of the Huguenots. Eustacie's
chamber was freed from the bustle of all the maids of honour arraying themselves, and adjusting
curls, feathers, ruffs and jewels; and such relief as she was capable of experiencing she felt
in the quiet.

Veronique hoped she would sleep, and watched like a dragon to guard against any disturbance,
springing out with upraised finger when a soft gliding step and rustling of brocade was heard.
'Does she sleep?' said a low voice; and Veronique, in the pale thin face with tear-swollen
eyes and light yellow hair, recognized the young Queen. 'My good girl,' said Elisabeth, with
almost a beseeching gesture, 'let me see her. I do not know when again I may be able.'

Veronique stood aside, with the lowest possible of curtseys, just as her mistress with a feeble,
weary voice murmured, 'Oh, make them let me alone!'

'My poor, poor child,' said the Queen, bending over Eustacie, while her brimming eyes let the
tears fall fast, 'I will not disturb you long, but I could not help it.'

'Her Majesty!' exclaimed Eustacie, opening wide her eyes in amazement.

'My dear, suffer me here a little moment,' said the meek Elisabeth, seating herself so as to
bring her face near to Eustacie's; 'I could not rest till I had seen how it was with you and
wept with you.'

'Ah, Madame, you can weep,' said Eustacie slowly, looking at the Queen's heavy tearful eyes
almost with wonder; 'but I do not weep because I am dying, and that is better.'

'My dear, my dear, do not so speak!' exclaimed the gentle but rather dull Queen.

'Is it wrong? Nay, so much the better--then I shall be with HIM,' said Eustacie in the same
feeble dreamy manner, as if she did not understand herself, but a little roused by seeing she
had shocked her visitor. 'I would not be wicked. He was all bright goodness and truth: but
his does not seem to be goodness that brings to heaven, and I do not want to be in the heaven
of these cruel false men--I think it would go round and round.' She shut her eyes as if to
steady herself, and that moment seemed to give her more self-recollection, for looking at the
weeping, troubled visitor, she exclaimed, with more energy, 'Oh! Madame, it must be a dreadful
fancy! Good men like him cannot be shut into those fiery gates with the torturing devils.'

'Heaven forbid!' exclaimed the Queen. 'My poor, poor child, grieve not yourself thus. At my
home, my Austrian home, we do not speak in this dreadful way. My father loves and honours his
loyal Protestants, and he trusts that the good God accepts their holy lives in His unseen Church,
even though outwardly they are separate from us. My German confessor ever said so. Oh! Child,
it would be too frightful if we deemed that all those souls as well as bodies perished in these
frightful days. Myself, I believe that they have their reward for their truth and constancy.'

Eustacie caught the Queen's hand, and fondled it with delight, as though those words had veritably
opened the gates of heaven to her husband. The Queen went on in her slow gentle manner, the
very tone of which was inexpressibly soothing and sympathetic: 'Yes, and all will be clear
there. No more violence. At home our good men think so, and the King will think the same when
these cruel counselors will leave him to himself; and I pray, I pray day and night, that God
will not lay this sin to his account, but open his eyes to repent. Forgive him, Eustacie, and
pray for him too.'

'The King would have saved my husband, Madame,' returned Eustacie. 'He bade him to his room.
It was I, unhappy I, who detained him, lest our flight should have been hindered.'

The Queen in her turn kissed Eustacie's forehead with eager gratitude. 'Oh, little one, you
have brought a drop of comfort to a heavy heart. Alas! I could sometimes feel you to be a happier
wife than I, with your perfect trust in the brave pure-spirited youth, unwarped by these wicked
cruel advisers. I loved to look at his open brow; it was so like our bravest German Junkers.
And, child, we thought, both of us, to have brought about your happiness; but, ah! it has but
caused all this misery.'

'No, no, dearest Queen,' said Eustacie, 'this month with all its woe has been joy--life! Oh!
I had rather lie here and die for his loss than be as I was before he came. And NOW--now, you
have given him to me for all eternity--if but I am fit to be with him!'

Eustacie had revived so much during the interview that the Queen could not believe her to be
in a dying state; but she continued very ill, the low fever still hanging about her, and the
faintness continual. The close room, the turmoil of its many inhabitants, and the impossibility
of quiet also harassed her greatly, and Elisabeth had little or no power of making any other
arrangements for her in the palace. Ladies when ill were taken home, and this poor child had
no home. The other maids of honour were a gentler, simpler set than Catherine's squadron, and
were far from unkind; but between them and her, who had so lately been the brightest child
of them all, there now lay that great gulf. 'Ich habe gelebt und geliebet.' That the little
blackbird, as they used to call her, should have been on the verge of running away with her
own husband was a half understood, amusing mystery discussed in exaggerating prattle. This
was hushed, indeed, in the presence of that crushed, prostrate, silent sorrow; but there was
still an utter incapacity of true sympathy, that made the very presence of so many oppressive,
even when they were not in murmurs discussing the ghastly tidings of massacres in other cities,
and the fate of acquaintances.

On that same day, the Queen sent for Diane to consult her about the sufferer. Elisabeth longed
to place her in her own cabinet and attend on her herself; but she was afraid to do this, as
the unhappy King was in such a frenzied mood, and so constantly excited by his brother and
Guise, that it was possible that some half-delirious complaint from poor Eustacie might lead
to serious consequences. Indeed, Elisabeth, though in no state to bear agitation, was absorbed
in her endeavour to prevent him from adding blood to blood, and a few days later actually saved
the lives of the King of Navarre and Prince of Conde, by throwing herself before him half-dressed,
and tearing his weapon from his hand. Her only hope was that if she should give him a son,
her influence for mercy would revive with his joy. Meantime she was powerless, and she could
only devise the sending the poor little sufferer to a convent, where the nuns might tend her
till she was restored to health and composure. Diane acquiesced, but proposed sending for her
father, and he was accordingly summoned. Diane saw him first alone, and both agreed that he
had better take Eustacie to Bellaise, where her aunt would take good care of her, and in a
few months she would no doubt be weary enough of the country to be in raptures to return to
Paris on any terms.

Yet even as Diane said this, a sort of longing for the solitude of the woods of Nid-de-Merle
came over her, a recollection of the good Sister Monique, at whose knee she had breathed somewhat
of the free pure air that her murdered cousin had brought with him; a sense that there she
could pour forth her sorrow. She offered herself at once to go with Eustacie.

'No, no, my daughter,' said the Chevalier, 'that is unnecessary. There is pleasanter employment
for you. I told you that your position was secured. Here is a brilliant offer--M. de Selinville,'

'Le bonhomme de Selinville!' exclaimed Diane, feeling rather as if the compensation were like
the little dog offered to Eustacie.

'Know ye not that his two heretic nephews perished the other night. He is now the head of his
name, the Marquis, the only one left of his house.'

'He begins early,' said Diane.

'An old soldier, my daughter, scarce stays to count the fallen. He has no time to lose. He
is sixty, with a damaged constitution. It will be but the affair of a few years, and then will
my beautiful Marquise be free to choose for herself. I shall go from the young Queen to obtain
permission from the Queen-mother.'

No question was asked. Diane never even thought objection possible. It was a close to that
present life which she had begun to loathe; it gave comparative liberty. It would dull and
confuse her heart-sick pain, and give her a certain superiority to her brother. Moreover, it
would satisfy the old father, whom she really loved. Marriage with a worn-out old man was a
simple step to full display for young ladies without fortune.

The Chevalier told Queen Elisabeth his purpose of placing his niece in the family convent,
under the care of her aunt, the Abbess, in a foundation endowed by her own family on the borders
of her own estate. Elisabeth would have liked to keep her nearer, but could not but own that
the change to the scenes of her childhood might be more beneficial than a residence in a nunnery
at Paris, and the Chevalier spoke of his niece with a tender solicitude that gained the Queen's
heart. She consented, only stipulating that Eustacie's real wishes should be ascertained, and
herself again made the exertion of visiting the patient for the purpose.

Eustacie had been partly dressed, and was lying as near as she could to the narrow window.
The Queen would not let her move, but took her damp languid hand, and detailed her uncle's
proposal. It was plain that it was not utterly distasteful. 'Soeur Monique,' she said, 'Soeur
Monique would sing hymns to me, and then I should not see the imps at night.'

'Poor child! And you would like to go? You could bear the journey?'

'It would be in the air! And then I should not smell blood--blood!' And her cheeks became whiter
again, if possible.

'Then you would not rather be at the Carmelites, or Maubuisson, near me?'

'Ah! Madame, there would not be Soeur Monique. If the journey would only make me die, as soon
as I came, with Soeur Monique to hush me, and keep off dreadful images!'

'Dear child, you should put away the thought of dying. Maybe you are to live, that your prayers
may win salvation for the soul of him you love.'

'Oh, then! I should like to go into a convent so strict--so strict, cried Eustacie, with renewed
vigour. 'Bellaise is nothing like strict enough. Does your Majesty indeed think that my prayers
will aid him?'

'Alas! what hope could we have but in praying?' said Elisabeth, with tears in her eyes. 'Little
one, we will be joined at least in our prayers and intercessions: thou wilt not forget in thine
one who yet lives, unhappier than all!'

'And, oh, my good, my holy Queen, will you indeed pray for him--my husband? He was so good,
his faith can surely not long be reckoned against him. He did not believe in Purgatory! Perhaps----'
Then frowning with a difficulty far beyond a fever-clouded brain, she concluded--'At least,
orisons may aid him! It is doing something for him! Oh, where are my beads?--I can begin at once.'

The Queen put her arm round her, and together they said the De profundis,--the Queen understood
every word far more for the living than the dead. Again Elisabeth had given new life to Eustacie.
The intercession for her husband was something to live for, and the severest convent was coveted,
until she was assured that she would not be allowed to enter on any rule till she had time
to recover her health, and show the constancy of her purpose by a residence at Bellaise.

Ere parting, however, the Queen bent over her, and colouring, as if much ashamed of what she
said, whispered--'Child, not a word of the ceremony at Montpipeau!--you understand? The King
was always averse; it would bring him and me into dreadful trouble with THOSE OTHERS, and alas!
It makes no difference now. You will be silent?'

And Eustacie signed her acquiescence, as indeed no difficulty was made in her being regarded
as the widow of the Baron de Ribaumont, when she further insisted on procuring a widow's dress
before she quitted her room, and declared, with much dignity, that she should esteem no person
her friend who called her Mademoiselle de Nid-de-Merle. To this the Chevalier de Ribaumont
was willing to give way; he did not care whether Narcisse married her as Berenger's widow or
as the separated maiden wife, and he thought her vehement opposition and dislike would die
away the faster the fewer impediments were placed in her way. Both he and Diane strongly discouraged
any attempt on Narcisse's widow part at a farewell interview; and thus unmolested, and under
the constant soothing influence of reciting her prayers, in the trust that they were availing
her husband, Eustacie rallied so much that about ten day after the dreadful St. Batholomew,
in the early morning, she was half-led half-carried down the stairs between her uncle and Veronique.
Her face was close muffled in her thick black veil, but when she came to the foot of the first
stairs where she had found Berenger's cap, a terrible shuddering came on her; she again murmured
something about the smell of blood, and fell into a swoon.

'Carry her on at once,' said Diane, who was following,--'there will be not end to it if you
do not remove her immediately.'

And thus shielded from the sight of Marcisse's intended passionate gesture of farewell at the
palace-door, Eustecie was laid at full length on the seat of the great ponderous family coach,
where Veronique hardly wished to revive her till the eight horses should have dragged her beyond
the streets of Paris, with their terrible associations, and the gibbets still hung with the
limbs of the murdered.

CHAPTER XIII. THE BRIDEGROOM'S ARRIVAL

  The starling flew to his mother's window stane,
    It whistled and it sang,
  And aye, the ower word of the tune
    Was 'Johnnie tarries lang.'
                     --JOHNNIE OF BREDISLEE

There had been distrust and dissatisfaction at home for many a day past. Berenger could hardly
be censured for loving his own wife, and yet his family were by not means gratified by the
prospect of his bringing home a little French Papist, of whom Lady Thistlewood remembered nothing
good.

Lucy was indignantly fetched home by her stepmother, who insisted on treating her with extreme
pity as a deserted maiden, and thus counteracting Aunt Cecily's wise representations, that
there never should, and therefore never could, have been anything save fraternal affection
between the young people, and that pity was almost an insult to Lucy. The good girl herself
was made very uncomfortable by there demonstrations, and avoided them as much as possible,
chiefly striving in her own gentle way to prepare her little sisters to expect numerous charms
in brother Berenger's wife, and heartily agreeing with Philip that Berenger knew his own mind best.

'And at any rate,' quoth Philip, 'we'll have the best bonfire that ever was seen in the country!
Lucy, you'll coax my father to give us a tar-barrel!'

The tar-barrel presided over a monstrous pile of fagots, and the fisher-boys were promised
a tester to whoever should first bring word to Master Philip that the young lord and lady were
in the creek.

Philip gave his pony no rest, between the lock-out on the downs and the borders of the creek;
but day after day passed, and still the smacks from Jersey held no person worth mentioning;
and still the sense of expectation kept Lucy starting at every sound, and hating herself for
her own folly.

At last Philip burst into Combe Manor, fiery red with riding and consternation. 'Oh! father,
father, Paul Duval's boat is come in, and he says that the villain Papists have butchered every
Protestant in France.'

Sir Marmaduke's asseveration was of the strongest, that he did not believe a word of it. Nevertheless,
he took his horse and rode down to interrogate Paul Duval, and charge him not to spread the
report was in the air. He went to the Hall, and the butler met him with a grave face, and took
him to the study, where Lord Walwyn was sitting over letter newly received from London, giving
hints from the Low Countries of bloody work in France. And when he returned to his home, his
wife burst out upon him in despair. Here had they been certainly killing her poor buy. Not
a doubt that he was dead. All from this miserable going to France, that had been quite against
her will.

Stoutly did Sir Marmaduke persevere in his disbelief; but every day some fresh wave of tidings
floated in. Murder wholesale had surely been perpetrated. Now came stories of death-bells at
Rouen from the fishermen on the coast; now markets and petty sessions discussed the foul slaughter
of the Ambassador and his household; truly related how the Queen had put on mourning, and falsely
that she had hung the French Ambassador, La Mothe Feneon. And Burleigh wrote to his old friend
from London, that some horrible carnage had assuredly taken place, and that no news had yet
been received of Sir Francis Walsingham or of his suite.

All these days seems so many years taken from the vital power of Lord Walwyn. Not only had
his hopes and affections would themselves closely around his grandson, but he reproached himself
severely with having trusted him in his youth and inexperience among the seductive perils of
Paris. The old man grieved over the promising young life cut off, and charged on himself the
loss and grief to the women, whose stay he had trusted Berenger would have been. He said little,
but his hand and head grew more trembling; he scarcely ate or slept, and seemed to waste from
a vigorous elder to a feeble being in the extremity of old age, till Lady Walwyn had almost
ceased to think of her grandson in her anxiety for her husband.

Letters came at last. The messenger despatched by Sir Francis Walsingham had not been able
to proceed till the ways had become safe, and he had then been delayed; but on his arrival
his tidings were sent down. There were letters both from Sir Francis Walsingham and from heart-broken
Mr. Adderley, both to the same effect, with all possible praises of the young Baron de Ribaumont,
all possible reproach to themselves for having let him be betrayed, without even a possibility
of recovering his remains for honourable burial. Poor Mr. Adderley further said that Mr. Sidney,
who was inconsolable for the loss of his friend, had offered to escort him to the Low Countries,
whence he would make his way to England, and would present himself at Hurst Walwyn, if his
Lordship could endure the sight of his creature who had so miserably failed in his trust.

Lord Walwyn read both letters twice through before he spoke. Then he took off his spectacles,
laid them down, and said calmly, 'God's will be done. I thank God that my boy was blameless.
Better they slew him than sent him home tainted with their vices.'

The certainty, such as it was, seemed like repose after the suspense. They knew to what to
resign themselves, and even Lady Thistlewood's tempestuous grief had so spent itself that late
in the evening the family sat round the fire in the hall, the old lord dozing as one worn out
with sorrow, the others talking in hushed tones of that bright boyhood, that joyous light quenched
in the night of carnage.

The butler slowly entered the hall, and approached Sir Marmaduke, cautiously. 'Can I speak
with you, sir?'

'What is it, Davy?' demanded the lady, who first caught the words. 'What did you say?'

'Madam, it is Humfrey Holt!'

Humfrey Holt was the head of the grooms who had gone with Berenger; and there was a general
start and suppressed exclamation. 'Humfrey Hold!' said Lord Walwyn, feebly drawing himself
to sit upright, 'hath he, then, escaped?'

'Yea, my Lord,' said Davy, 'and he brings news of my young Lord'

'Alack! Davy,' said Lady Walwyn, 'such news had been precious a while ago.'

'Nay, so please your Ladyship, it is better than you deem. Humfley says my young Lord is yet
living.'

'Living! shrieked Lady Thistlewood, starting up. 'Living! My son! and where?'

'They are bearing him home, my Lady,' said the butler; 'but I fear me, by what Humfley says,
that it is but in woeful case.'

'Bringing him home! Which way?' Philip darted off like an arrow from the bow. Sir Marmaduke
hastily demanded if aid were wanted; and Lady Walwyn, interpreting the almost inaudible voice
of her husband, bade that Humfley should be called in to tell his own story.

Hands were held out in greeting, and blessings murmured, as the groom entered, looking battered
and worn, and bowing low in confusion at being thus unusually conspicuous, and having to tell
his story to the head and body, and slashed about the face so as it is a shame to see. Nor
hath he done aught these three weary weeks but moan from time to time so as it is enough to
break one's heart to hear him; and I fear me 'tis but bringing him home to die.'

'Even so, God be thanked; and you too, honest Humfley,' said Lady Walwyn.' 'Let us hear when
and how this deed was done.'

'Why, that, my Lord, I can't so well say, being that I was not with him; more's the pity, or
I'd have known the reason why, or even they laid a finger on him. But when Master Landry, his
French foster-brother, comes, he will resolve you in his own tongue. I can't parleyvoo with
him, but he's an honest rogue for a Frenchman, and 'twas he brought off my young Lord. You
see we were all told to be abroad the little French craft.

Master Landry took me down and settled it all with the master, a French farmer fellow that
came a horse-dealing to Paris. I knew what my young Lord was after, but none of the other varlets
did; and I went down and made as decent a place as I could between decks. My Lord and Master
Landry were gone down to the court meantime, and we were to lie off till we heard a whistle
like a mavis on the bank, then come and take them aboard. Well, we waited and waited, and all
the lights were out, and not a sound did we hear till just an hour after midnight. Then a big
bell rang out, not like a decent Christianable bell, but a great clash, then another, and a
lot of strokes enough to take away one's breath. Then half the windows were lighted up, and
we heard shots, and screeches, and splashes, till, as I said to Jack Smithers, 'twas as if
one half the place was murthering the other. The farmer got frightened, and would have been
off; but when I saw what he was at, "No," says I, "not an inch do we budge without news of
my Lord." So Jack stood by the rope, and let them see that 'twas as much as their life was
worth to try to unmoor. Mercy, what a night it was! Shrieks and shouts, and shots and howls,
here, there, and everywhere, and splashes into the rive; and by and by we saw the poor murthered
creatures come floating by. The farmer, he had some words with one of the boats near, and I
heard somewhat of Huguenot and Hereteek, and I knew that was what they called good Protestants.
Then up comes the farmer with his sons looking mighty ugly at us, and signing that unless we
let them be off 'twould be set ashore for us; and we began to think as how we had best be set
ashore, and go down the five of us to see if we could stand by my young Lord in some strait,
or give notice to my Lord Ambassador.'

'God reward you!' exclaimed Lady Walwyn.

'Twas only our duty, my Lady,' gruffly answered Humfrey; 'but just as Hal had got on the quay,
what should I see but Master Landry coming down the street with my young Lord in his back!
I can tell you he was well-nigh spent; and just then half a dozen butcherly villains came out
on him, bawling, "Tu-y! tu-y!" which it seems means "kill, kill." He turned about and showed
them that he had got a white sleeve and white cross in his bonnet, like them, the rascals,
giving them to understand that he was only going to throw the corpse into the river. I doubted
him then myself; but he caught sight of us, and in his fashion of talk with us, called out
to us to help, for there was life still. So two of us took my Lord, and the other three gave
the beggarly French cut-throats as good as they meant for us; while Landry shouted to the farmer
to wait, and we got aboard, and made right away down the river. But never a word has the poor
young gentleman spoken, though Master Landry has done all a barber or a sick-nurse could do;
and he got us past the cities by showing the papers in my Lord's pocket, so that we got safe
to the farmer's place. There we lay till we could get a boat to Jersey, and thence again home;
and maybe my young Lord will mend now Mistress Cecily will have the handing of him.'

'That is it the wisest Hands, good Humfrey,' said Lord Walwyn, as the tears of feeble age flowed
down his cheeks. 'May He who hath brought the lad safely so far spare him yet, and raise him
up. But whether he live or die, you son and daughter Thistlewood will look that the faithfulness
of Humfrey Holt and his comrades be never forgotten or unrewarded.'

Humfrey again muttered something about no more than his duty; but by this time sounds were
heard betokening the approach of the melancholy procession, who, having been relieved by a
relay of servants sent at once from the house, were bearing home the wounded youth. Philip
first of all dashed in hurrying and stumbling. He had been unprepared by hearing Humfrey's
account, and, impetuous and affectionate as he was, was entirely unrestrained, and flinging
himself on his knees with the half-audible words, 'Oh! Lucy! Lucy! He is as good as dead!'
hid his face between his arms on his sister's lap, and sobbed with the abandonment of a child,
and with all his youthful strength; so much adding to the consternation and confusion, that,
finding all Lucy's gentle entreaties vain, his father at last roughly pulled up his face by
main force, and said, 'Philip, hold your tongue! Are we to have you on our hands as well as
my Lady? I shall send you home this moment! Let your sister go.'

This threat reduced the boy to silence. Lucy, who was wanted to assist in preparing Berenger's
room, disengaged herself; but he remained in the same posture, his head buried on the seat
of the chair, and the loud weeping only forcibly stifled by forcing his handkerchief into his
mouth, as if he had been in violent bodily pain. Nor did he venture again to look up as the
cause of all his distress was slowly carried into the hall, corpse-like indeed. The bearers
had changed several times, all but a tall, fair Norman youth, who through the whole transit
had supported the head, endeavouring to guard it from shocks. When the mother and the rest
came forward, he made a gesture to conceal the face, saying in French, 'Ah! Mesdames; this
is no sight for you.'

Indeed the head and face were almost entirely hidden by bandages, and it was not till Berenger
had been safely deposited on a large carved bed that the anxious relatives were permitted to
perceive the number and extent of his hurts; and truly it was only by the breath, the vital
warmth, and the heavy moans when he was disturbed, or the dressings of the wounds were touched,
that showed him still to be a living man. There proved to be no less than four wounds--a shot
through the right shoulder, the right arm also broken with a terrible blow with a sword, a
broad gash from the left temple to the right ear, and worse than all, 'le baiser d'Eustacie,'
a bullet wound where the muzzle of the pistol had absolutely been so close as to have burnt
and blackened the cheek; so that his life was, as Osbert averred, chiefly owing to the assassin's
jealousy of his personal beauty, which had directed his shot to the cheek rather than the head;
and thus, though the bullet had terribly shattered the upper jaw and roof of the mouth, and
had passed out through the back of the head, there was a hope that it had not penetrated the
seat of life or reason. The other gash on the face was but a sword-wound, and though frightful
to look at, was unimportant, compared with the first wound with the pistol-shot in the shoulder,
with the arm broken and further injured by having served to suspend him round Osbert's neck;
but it was altogether so appalling a sight, that it was no wonder that Sis Marmaduke muttered
low but deep curses on the cowardly ruffians; while his wife wept in grief as violent, though
more silent, than her stepson's, and only Cecily gathered the faintest ray of hope. The wounds
had been well cared for, the arm had been set, the hair cut away, and lint and bandages applied
with a skill that surprised her, till she remembered that Landry Osbert had been bred up in
preparation to be Berenger's valet, and thus to practise those minor arts of surgery then required
in a superior body-servant. For his part, though his eyes looked red, and his whole person
exhausted by unceasing watching, he seemed unable to relinquish the care of his master for
a moment, and her nunnery French would not have perceived her tender touch and ready skill.
These were what made him consent to leave his post even for a short meal, and so soon as he
had eaten it he was called to Lord Walwyn to supply the further account which Humfley had been
unable to give. He had waited, he explained, with a lackey, a friend of his in the palace,
till he became alarmed by the influx of armed men, wearing white crosses and shirt-sleeves
on their left arms, but his friend had assured him that his master had been summoned to the
royal bedchamber, where he would be as safe as in church; and obtaining from Landry Osbert
himself a perfectly true assurance of being a good Catholic, had supplied him with the badges
that were needful for security. It was just then that Madame's maid crept down to his waiting-place
with the intelligence that her mistress had been bolted in, and after a short consultation
they agreed to go and see whether M. le Baron were indeed waiting, and, if he were, to warn
him of the suspicious state of the lower regions of the palace.

They were just in time to see, but not to prevent the attack upon their young master; and while
Veronique fled, screaming, Landry Osbert, who had been thrown back on the stairs in her sudden
flight, recovered himself and hastened to his master. The murderers, after their blows had
been struck, had hurried along the corridor to join the body of assassins, whose work they
had in effect somewhat anticipated. Landry, full of rage and despair, was resolved at least
to save his foster-brother's corpse from further insult, and bore it down-stairs in his arms.
On the way, he perceived that life was not yet extinct, and resolving to become doubly cautious,
he sought in the pocket for the purse that had been well filled for the flight, and by the
persuasive argument of gold crowns, obtained egress from the door-keeper of the postern, where
Berenger hoped to have emerged in a far different manner. It was a favourable moment, for the
main body of the murderers were at that time being poster in the court by the captain of the
guard, ready to massacre the gentlemen of the King of Navarre's suite, and he was therefore
unmolested by any claimant of the plunders of the apparent corpse he bore on his shoulders.
The citizens of Paris who had been engaged in their share of the murders for more than an hour
before the tragedy began in the Louvre, frequently beset him on his way to the quay, and but
for the timely aid of his English comrades, he would hardly have brought off his foster-brother
safely.

The pass with which King Charles had provided Berenger for himself and his followers when his
elopement was first planned, enabled Osbert to carry his whole crew safely past all the stations
where passports were demanded. He had much wished to procure surgical aid at Rouen, but learning
from the boatmen on the river that the like bloody scenes were there being enacted, he had
decide on going on to his master's English home as soon as possible, merely trusting to his
own skill by the way; and though it was the slightest possible hope, yet the healthy state
of the wounds, and the mere fact of life continuing, had given him some faint trust that there
might be a partial recovery.

Lord Walwyn repeated his agitated thanks and praises for such devotion to his grandson.

Osbert bower, laid his hand on his heart, and replied--'Monseigneur is good, but what say I?
Monsieur le Baron is my foster-brother! Say that, and all is said in one word.'

He was then dismissed, with orders to take some rest, but he obstinately refused all commands
in French or English to go to bed, and was found some time after fast asleep.

CHAPTER XIV. SWEET HEART

     Ye hae marred a bonnier face than your ain.
            DYING WORDS OF THE BONNIE EARL OF MORAY

One room at Hurst Walwyn, though large, wainscoted, and well furnished, bore as pertinaciously
the air of a cell as the appearance of Sister Cecily St. John continued like that of a nun.
There was a large sunny oriel, in which a thrush sang merrily in a wicker cage; and yet the
very central point and leading feature of the room was the altar-like table, covered with rich
needlework, with a carved ebony crucifix placed on it, and on the wall above, quaint and stiff,
but lovely-featured, delicately tinted pictures of Our Lady in the centre, and of St. Anne
and St. Cecilia on either side, with skies behind of most ethereal blue, and robes tenderly
trimmed with gold. A little shrine of purple spar, with a crystal front, contained a fragment
of sacred bone; a silver shell help holy water, perpetuated from some blessed by Bishop Ridley.

             'With velvet bound and broidered o'er,
                      Her breviary book'

Lay open at 'Sext,' and there, too, lay with its three marks at the Daily Lessons, the Bishop's
Bible, and the Common Prayer beside it.

The elder Baron de Ribaumont had never pardoned Cecily his single glance at that table, and
had seriously remonstrated with his father-in-law for permitting its existence, quoting Rachel,
Achan, and Maachah. Yet he never knew of the hair-cloth smock, the discipline, the cord and
sack-cloth that lay stored in the large carved awmry, and were secretly in use on every fast
or vigil, not with any notion of merit, but of simple obedience, and with even deeper comprehension
and enjoyment of their spiritual significance, of which, in her cloister life, she had comprehended
little.

It was not she, however, who knelt with bowed head and clasped hands before the altar-table,
the winter sunbeams making the shadows of the ivy sprays dance upon the deep mourning dress
and pale cheek. The eyelashes were heavy with tear-drops, and veiled eyes that had not yet
attained to the region of calm, like the light quivering of the lips showed that here was the
beginning of the course of trial through which serenity might be won, and for ever.

By and by the latch was raise, and Cecily came forward. Lucy rose quickly to her feet, and
while giving and returning a fond embrace, asked with her eyes the question that Cecily answered,
'Still in the same lethargy. The only shade of sense that I have seen is an unclosing of the
eyes, a wistful look whenever the door opened, and a shiver through all his frame whenever
the great bell rings, till my Lord forbade it to be sounded.'

'That frightful bell that the men told us of,' said Lucy, shuddering; 'oh, what a heart that
murderess must have had!'

'Hold, Lucy! How should we judge her, who may at this moment be weeping in desolation?'

Lucy looked up astonished. 'Aunt,' she said, 'you have been so long shut up with him that you
hardly can have heard all-how she played fast and loose, and for the sake of a mere pageant
put off the flight from the time when it would have been secure even until that dreadful eve!'

'I know it,' said Cecily. 'I fear me much that her sin has been great; yet, Lucy, it were better
to pray for her than to talk wildly against her.'

'Alas!' murmured Lucy, 'I could bear it and glory in it when it seemed death for the faith's
sake, but,' and the tears burst out, 'to find he was only trapped and slain for the sake of
a faithless girl--and that he should love her still.'

'She is his wife,' said Cecily. 'Child, from my soul I grieve for you, but none the less must
I, if no other will, keep before your eyes that our Berenger's faith belongs solely to her.'

'You--you never would have let me forget it,' said Lucy. 'Indeed I am more maidenly when not
alone with you! I know verily that he is loyal, and that my hatred to her is more than is meet.
I will--I will pray for her, but I would that you were in your convent still, and that I could
hide me there.'

'That were scarce enough,' said Cecily. 'One sister we had who had fled to our house to hide
her sorrows for her betrothed had wedded another. She took her sorrows for her vocation, strove
to hurry on her vows, and when they were taken, she chafed and fretted under them. It was she
who wrote to the commissioner the letter that led to the visitation of our house, and, moreover,
she was the only one of us who married.'

'To her own lover?'

'No, to a brewer at Winchester! I say not that you could ever be like poor sister Bridget,
but only that the cloister has no charm to still the heart--prayer and duty can do as much
without as within.'

'When we deemed her worthy, I was glad of his happiness,' said Lucy, thoughtfully.

'You did, my dear, and I rejoiced. Think now how grievous it must be with her, if she, as I
fear she may, yielded her heart to those who told her that to ensnare him was her duty, or
if indeed she were as much deceived as he.'

'Then she will soon be comforted,' said Lucy, still with some bitterness in her voice; bitterness
of which she herself was perhaps conscious, for suddenly dropping in her knees, she hid her
face, and cried. 'Oh, help me to pray for her, Aunt Cecily, and that I may do her wrong no more!'

And Cecily, in her low conventual chant, sang, almost under her breath, the noonday Latin hymn,
the words of which, long familiar to Lucy, had never as yet so come home to her. Mr. Adderley
had been forwarded by Sir Francis Walsingham like a bale of goods, and arriving in a mood of
such self-reproach as would be deemed abject, by persons used to the modern relations between
noblemen and their chaplains, was exhilarated by the unlooked-for comfort of finding his young
charge at least living, and in his grandfather's house. From his narrative, Walsingham's letter,
and Osbert's account, Lord Walwyn saw no reason to doubt that the Black Ribaumonts had thought
that massacre a favourable moment for sweeping the only survivor of the White or elder branch
away, and that not only had royalty lent itself to the cruel project, but that as Diane de
Ribaumont had failed as a bait, the young espoused wife had herself been employed to draw him
into the snare, and secure his presence at the slaughter-house, away from his safe asylum at
the Ambassador's or even in the King's garde-robe. It was an unspeakably frightful view to
take of the case, yet scarcely worse than the reality of many of the dealings of those with
whom the poor young girl had been associated: certainly not worse than the crimes, the suspicion
of which was resting on the last dowager Queen of France; and all that could be felt by the
sorrowing family, was comfort that at least corruption of mind had either not been part of
the game, or had been unsuccessful, and, by all testimony, the victim was still the same innocent
boy. This was all their relief, while for days, for weeks, Berenger de Ribaumont lay in a trance
or torpor between life and death. Sometimes, as Cecily had said, his eyes turned with a startled
wistfulness towards the door, and the sound of a bell seemed to thrill him with a start of
agony; but for the most part he neither appeared to see or hear, and a few moans were the only
sounds that escaped him. The Queen, in her affection for her old friend, and her strong feeling
for the victims of the massacre, sent down the court physician, who turned him about, and elicited
sundry heavy groans, but could do no more than enjoin patient waiting on the beneficent powers
of nature in early youth. His visit produced one benefit, namely, the strengthening of Cecily
St. John's hands against the charms, elixirs, and nostrums with which Lady Thistlewood's friends
supplied her,--plasters from the cunning women of Lyme Regis, made of powder of giant's bones,
and snakes prayed into stone by St. Aldhelm, pills of live woodlice, and fomentations of living
earthworms and spiders. Great was the censure incurred by Lady Walwyn for refusing to let such
remedies be tried on HER grandson. And he was so much more her child than his mother's, that
Dame Annora durst do no more than maunder.

In this perfect rest, it seemed as if after a time 'the powers of nature' did begin to rally,
there were appearances of healing about the wounds, the difference between sleeping and waking
became more evident, the eyes lost the painful, half-closed, vacant look, but were either shut
or opened with languid recognition. The injuries were such as to exclude him from almost every
means of expression, the wound in his mouth made speech impossible, and his right arm was not
available for signs. It was only the clearness of his eyes, and their response to what was
said, that showed that his mind was recovering tone, and then he seemed only alive to the present,
and to perceive nothing but what related to his suffering and its alleviations. The wistfulness
that had shown itself at first was gone, and even when he improved enough to establish a language
of signs with eye, lip, or left hand, Cecily became convinced that he has little or no memory
of recent occurrences, and that finding himself at home among familiar faces, his still dormant
perceptions demanded no further explanation.

This blank was the most favourable state for his peace and for his recovery, and it was of
long duration, lasting even till he had made so much progress that he could leave his bed,
and even speak a few words, though his weakness was much prolonged by the great difficulty
with which he could take nourishment. About two winters before, Cecily had successfully nursed
him through a severe attack of small-pox, and she thought that he confounded his present state
with the former illness, when he had had nearly the same attendants and surroundings as at
present; and that his faculties were not yet roused enough to perceive the incongruity.

Once or twice he showed surprise at visits from his mother or Philip, who had then been entirely
kept away from him, and about Christmas he brightened so much, and awoke to things about him
so much more fully, that Cecily thought the time of recollection could not be much longer deferred.
Any noise, however, seemed so painful to him, that the Christmas festivities were held at Combe
Manor instead of Hurst Walwyn; only after church, Sir Marmaduke and Lady Thistlewood came in
to make him a visit, as he sat in a large easy-chair by his bedroom-fire, resting after having
gone through as much of the rites of the day as he was able for, with Mr. Adderlay. The room
looked very cheerful with the bright wood-fire on the open hearth, shining on the gay tapestry
hangings, and the dark wood of the carved bed. The evergreen-decked window shimmered with sun
shine, and even the patient, leaning back among crimson cushions, though his face and head
were ghastly enough wherever they were not covered with patches and bandages, still had a pleasant
smile with lip and eye to thank his stepfather for his cheery wishes of 'a merry Christmas,
at least one better in health.'

'I did not bring the little wenches, Berenger, lest they should weary you,' said his mother.

Berenger looked alarmed, and said with the indistinctness with which he always spoke, 'Have
they caught it? Are they marked?'

'No, no, not like you, may boy,' said Sir Marmaduke, sufficiently aware of Berenger's belief
to be glad to keep it up, and yet obliged to walk to the window to hide his diversion at the
notion of his little girls catching the contagion of sword-gashes and bullet-wounds. Dame Annora
prattled on, 'But they have sent you their Christmas gifts by me. Poor children, they have
long been busied with them, and I fancy Lucy did half herself. See, this kerchief is hemmed
by little Dolly, and here are a pair of bands and cuffs to match, that Nanny and Bessy have
been broidering with their choicest stitchery.'

Berenger smile, took, expressed admiration by gesture, and then said in a dreamy, uncertain
manner, 'Methought I had some gifts for them;' then looking round the room, his eye fell on
a small brass-bound casket which had travelled with him to hold his valuables; he pointed to
it with a pleased look, as Sir Marmaduke lifted it and placed it on a chair by his side. The
key, a small ornamental brass one, was in his purse, not far off, and Lady Thistlewood was
full of exceeding satisfaction at the unpacking not only of foreign gifts, but, as she hoped,
of the pearls; Cecily meantime stole quietly in, to watch that her patient was not over-wearied.

He was resuming the use of his right arm, though it was still weak and stiff, and he evidently
had an instinct against letting any one deal with that box but himself; he tried himself to
unlock it, and though forced to leave this to Sir Marmaduke, still leant over it when opened,
as if to prevent his mother's curious glances from penetrating its recesses, and allowed no
hands near it but his own. He first brought out a pretty feather fan, saying as he held it
to his mother, 'For Nan, I promised it. It was bought at the Halles,' he added, more dreamily.

Then again he dived, and brought out a wax medallion of Our Lady guarded by angels, and made
the sign that always brought Cecily to him. He held it up to her with a puzzled smile, saying,
'They thought me a mere Papist for buying it--M. de Teligny, I think it was.'

They had heard how the good and beloved Teligny had been shot down on the roof of his father-in-law's
house, by rabid assassins, strangers to his person, when all who knew him had spared him, from
love to his gentle nature; and the name gave a strange thrill.

He muttered something about 'Pedlar,--Montpipeau,'--and still continued. Then came a small
silver casket, diffusing an odour of attar of roses--he leant back in his chair--and his mother
would have taken it from him, supposing him overcome by the scent, but he held it fast and
shook his head, saying, 'For Lucy,--but she must give it herself. She gave up any gift for
herself for it--she said we needed no love-tokens.' And he closed his eyes. Dame Annora plunged
into the unpacking, and brought out a pocket-mirror with enamelled cupids in the corner, addressed
to herself; and then came upon Berenger's own.

Again came a fringed pair of gloves among the personal jewellery such as gentlemen were wont
to wear, the rings, clasps and brooches he had carried from home. Dame Annora's impatience
at last found vent in the exclamation, 'The pearls, son; I do not see the chaplet of pearls.'

'She had them, 'answered Berenger, in a matter-of-fact tone, 'to wear at the masque.'

'She----'

Sir Marmaduke's great hand choked, as it were, the query on his wife's lips, unseen by her
son, who, as if the words had touched some chord, was more eagerly seeking in the box, and
presently drew out a bow of carnation ribbon with a small piece of paper full of pin-holes
attached to it. At once he carried it to his lips, kissed it fervently, and then, sinking back
in his chair, seemed to be trying to gather up the memory that had prompted the impulse, knitted
his brows together, and then suddenly exclaimed, 'Where is she?'

His mother tried the last antecedent. 'Lucy? She shall come and thank you to-morrow.'

He shook his head with a vehement negative, beckoned Cecily impatiently, and said earnestly,
'Is it the contagion? Is she sick? I will go to her.'

Cecily and Sir Marmaduke both replied with a 'No, no!' and were thankful, though in much suspense
at the momentary pause, while again he leant back on the cushions, looked steadily at the pin-holes,
that formed themselves into the word 'Sweet heart,' then suddenly began to draw up the loose
sleeve of his wrapping-gown and unbutton the wristband of his right sleeve. His mother tried
to help him, asking if he had hurt or tired his arm. They would have been almost glad to hear
that it was so, but he shook her off impatiently, and the next moment had a view of the freshly
skinned over, but still wide and gaping gash on his arm. He looked for a brief space, and said,
'It is a sword-cut.'

'Truly it is, lad,' said Sir Marmaduke, 'and a very bad one, happily whole! Is this the first
time you have seen it?'

He did not answer, but covered his eyes with his hand, and presently burst out again, 'Then
it is no dream? Sir--have I been to France?'

'Yes, my son, you have,' said Sir Marmaduke, gently, and with more tenderness than could have
been looked for; 'but what passed there is much better viewed as a dream, and cast behind your
back.'

Berenger had, while he spoke, taken up the same little mirror where he had once admired himself;
and as he beheld the scar and plaster that disfigured his face, with a fresh start of recollection,
muttered over, '"Barbouiller ce chien de visage"--ay, so he said. I felt the pistol's muzzle
touch! Narcisse! Has God had mercy on me? I prayed Him. Ah! "le baiser d'Eustacie"--so he said.
I was waiting in the dark. Why did he come instead of her? Oh! father, where is she?'

It was a sore task, but Sir Marmaduke went bravely and bluntly, though far from unkindly, to
the point: 'She remains with her friends in France.'

There the youth's look of utter horror and misery shocked and startled them all, and he groaned
rather than said, 'Left there! Left to them! What have I done to leave her there?'

'Come, Berenger, this will not serve,' said his mother, trying to rouse and cheer him. 'You
should rather be thankful that when you had been so foully ensnared by their wiles, good Osbert
brought you off with your life away from those bloody doings. Yes, you may thank Heaven and
Osbert, for you are the only one of them living now.'

'Of whom, mother?'

'Of all the poor Protestants that like you were deluded by the pack of murderers over there.
What,'--fancying it would exhilarate him to hear of his own escape--'you knew not that the
bloody Guise and the Paris cut-throats rose and slew every Huguenot they could lay hands on?
Why, did not the false wench put off your foolish runaway project for the very purpose of getting
you into the trap on the night of the massacre?'

He looked with a piteous, appealing glance from her to Cecily and Sir Marmaduke, as if in hopes
that they would contradict.

'Too true, my lad,' said Sir Marmaduke. 'It is Heaven's good mercy that Osbert carried you
out alive. No other Protestant left the palace alive but the King of Navarre and his cousin,
who turned renegades.'

'And she is left there?' he repeated.

'Heed her not, my dear boy,' began his mother; 'you are safe, and must forget her ill-faith
and----'

Berenger seemed scarcely to hear this speech--he held out his hands as if stunned and dizzied,
and only said, or rather indicated, 'Let me lie down.'

His stepfather almost carried him across the room, and laid him on his bed, where he turned
away from the light and shut his eyes; but the knot of ribbon and the pin-pricked word was
still in his hand, and his mother longed to take away the token of this false love, as she
believed it. The great clock struck the hour for her to go. 'Leave him quiet,' said Cecily,
gently; 'he can bear no more now. I will send over in the evening to let you know how he fares.'

'But that he should be so set on the little bloodthirsty baggage,' sighed Lady Thistlewood;
and then going up to her son, she poured out her explanation of being unable to stay, as her
parents were already at the Manor, with no better entertainers than Lucy, Philip, and the children.
She thanked him for the gifts, which she would take to them with his love. All this passed
by him as though he heard it not, but when leaning down, she kissed his forehead, and at the
same time tried to withdraw the knot of ribbon: his fingers closed on it with a grasp like
steel, so cold were they, yet so fast.

Sir Masmaduke lingered a few moments behind her, and Berenger opening his eyes, as if to see
whether solitude had been achieved, found the kind-hearted knight gazing at him with eyes full
of tears. 'Berry, my lad,' he said, 'bear it like a man. I know how hard it is. There's not
a woman of them all that an honest, plain Englishman has a chance with, when a smooth-tongued
Frenchman comes round her! But a man may live a true and honest life however sore his heart
may be, and God Almighty makes it up to him if he faces it out manfully.'

Good Sir Marmaduke in his sympathy had utterly forgotten both Berenger's French blood, and
that he was the son of the very smooth-tongued interloper who had robbed his life of its first
bloom. Berenger was altogether unequal to do more than murmur, as he held out his hand in response
to the kindness, 'You do not know her.'

'Ah! Poor lad.' Sir Marmaduke shook his head and left him to Cecily.

After the first shock, Berenger never rested till he had made Osbert, Mr. Adderley, and Cecily
tell him all they knew, and asked by name after those whom he had known best at Paris. Alas!
of all those, save such as had been in the Ambassador's house, there was but one account to
give. Venerable warrior, noble-hearted youth, devoted pastor, all alike had perished!

