"But us, we stay on de place and some more, dey stay too and you know, boss, some of dem niggers
what belonged to old mars and what he was so good to, dey stole mighty nigh all de mules and
rode dem off and mars, he never git he mules back. Naw suh, dat he didn'. De war, it broke
ole mars up and atter de surrender he jus' let he Arkansas farm go an' never come back no more.
Some of de older peoples, dey went back to Alabama time er two and seen ole mars but I nebber
did git to see him since us was sot free. But Mars Jeff, he comed here all de way from de home
in Alabama way atter he was growed. It's been 'bout fifty year now since de time he was here
and I sure was proud to see him, dat I was, boss, 'cause I sure did love Mars Jeff and I loves
him yit to dis day iffen he still lives and iffen he daid which I ain't never heered er not,
den I loves and 'spects he memory.

"Yas suh, boss, times is changed sure 'nough but like I 'splained 'bout white folks and it's
de same wid niggers, some is good and trys to lib right en some don' keer and jus' turns loose
en don' restrain demselves.

"You know, boss, dere is heaps of niggers wid white blood in 'em and dat mess was started way
back yonder I reckon 'fore I was ever borned. Shucks, I knowed it was long afore den but it
wasn't my kine er white folks what 'sponsible for dat, it was de low class like some of de
oberseers and den some of de yother folks like for instance de furriners what used to come
in de country and work at jobs de mars ud give 'em to do on the places like carpentrying an'
sich. I knowed one bad case, boss, dat happened right dere by us place and dat was de oberseer
who 'sponsible for dat and he was de oberseer for a widow oman what lived in Helena and dis
white man runned de place an' he hab he nigger oman and she de mama of 'bout six chillun by
dis man I tellin' you 'bout, three gals and three boys, and dem chillun nigh 'bout white and
look just like him and den he move off to some yother part of de county and he git married
dere to a white oman but he take he nigger fambly wid him just de same and he built dem a house
in de middle of de place he done bought and he keep 'em dere eben though he done got him a
white wife who he lib wid also and, boss, since I done told you he name don't tell I said so
'cause de chillun, dey is livin' dere yet and some of dem is gettin' old deyselves now but,
boss, I don't 'spect I is tellin' you much you don't already know 'bout dat bunch."

  Interviewer: Beulah Sherwood Hagg
  Person interviewed: Mrs. Cora Gillam
                      1023 Arch Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 86
  [HW: [Scratching Pacified Master.]]

"I have never been entirely sure of my age. I have kept it since I was married and they called
me fifteen. That was in '66 or '67. Anyhow, I'm about 86, and what difference does one year
make, one way or another. I lived with master and mistress in Greenville, Mississippi. They
didn't have children and kept me in the house with them all the time. Master was always having
a bad spell and take to his bed. It always made him sick to hear that freedom was coming closer.
He just couldn't stand to hear about that. I always remember the day he died. It was the fall
of Vicksburg. When he took a spell, I had to stand by the bed and scratch his head for him,
and fan him with the other hand. He said that scratching pacified him.

"No ma'am, oh no indeedy, my father was not a slave. Can't you tell by me that he was white?
My brother and one sister were free folks because their white father claimed them. Brother
was in college in Cincinnati and sister was in Oberlin college. My father was Mr. McCarroll
from Ohio. He came to Mississippi to be overseer on the plantation of the Warren family where
my mother lived. My grandmother--on mother's side, was full blood Cherokee. She came from North
Carolina. In early days my mother and her brothers and sisters were stolen from their home
in North Carolina and taken to Mississippi and sold for slaves. You know the Indians could
follow trails better than other kind of folks, and she tracked her children down and stayed
in the south. My mother was only part Negro; so was her brother, my uncle Tom. He seemed all
Indian. You know, the Cherokees were peaceable Indians, until you got them mad. Then they was
the fiercest fighters of any tribes.

"Wait a minute, lady. I want to tell you first why I didn't get educated up north like my white
brother and sister. Just about time for me to be born my papa went to see how they was getting
along in school. He left my education money with mama. He sure did want all his children educated.
I never saw my father. He died that trip. After awhile mama married a colored man name Lee.
He took my school money and put me in the cotton patch. It was still during the war time when
my white folks moved to Arkansas; it was Desha county where they settle. Now I want to tell
you about my uncle Tom. Like I said, he was half Indian. But the Negro part didn't show hardly
any. There was something about uncle Tom that made both white and black be afraid of him. His
master was young, like him. He was name Tom Johnson, too.

"You see, the Warrens, what own my mother, and the Johnsons, were all sort of one family. Mistress
Warren and Mistress Johnson were sisters, and owned everything together. The Johnsons lived
in Kentucky, but came to Arkansas to farm. Master Tom taught his slaves to read. They say uncle
Tom was the best reader, white or black, for miles. That was what got him in trouble. Slaves
was not allowed to read. They didn't want them to know that freedom was coming. No ma'am! Any
time a crowd of slaves gathered, overseers and bushwhackers come and chased them; broke up
the crowd. That Indian in uncle Tom made him not scared of anybody. He had a newspaper with
latest war news and gathered a crowd of slaves to read them when peace was coming. White men
say it done to get uprising among slaves. A crowd of white gather and take uncle Tom to jail.
Twenty of them say they would beat him, each man, till they so tired they can't lay on one
more lick. If he still alive, then they hang him. Wasn't that awful? Hang a man just because
he could read? They had him in jail overnight. His young master got wind of it, and went to
save his man. The Indian in uncle Tom rose. Strength--big extra strength seemed to come to
him. First man what opened that door, he leaped on him and laid him out. No white men could
stand against him in that Indian fighting spirit. They was scared of him. He almost tore that
jailhouse down, lady. Yes he did. His young master took him that night, but next day the white
mob was after him and had him in jail. Then listen what happened. The Yankees took Helena,
and opened up the jails. Everybody so scared they forgot all about hangings and things like
that. Then uncle Tom join the Union army; was in the 54th Regiment, U. S. volunteers (colored)
and went to Little Rock. My mama come up here. You see, so many white folks loaned their slaves
to the cessioners (Cecessionists) to help build forts all over the state. Mama was needed to
help cook. They was building forts to protect Little Rock. Steele was coming. The mistress
was kind; she took care of me and my sister while mama was gone.

"It was while she was in Little Rock that mama married Lee. After peace they went back to Helena
and stayed two years with old mistress. She let them have the use of the farm tools and mules;
she put up the cotton and seed corn and food for us. She told us we could work on shares, half
and half. You see, ma'am, when slaves got free, they didn't have nothing but their two hands
to start out with. I never heard of any master giving a slave money or land. Most went back
to farming on shares. For many years all they got was their food. Some white folks was so mean.
I know what they told us every time when crops would be put by. They said 'Why didn't you work
harder? Look. When the seed is paid for, and all your food and everything, what food you had
just squares the account.' Then they take all the cotton we raise, all the hogs, corn, everything.
We was just about where we was in slave days.

"When we see we never going to make anything share cropping, mother and I went picking. Yes
ma'am, they paid pretty good; got $1.50 a hundred. So we saved enough to take us to Little
Rock. Went on a boat, I remember, and it took a whole week to make the trip. Just think of
that. A whole week between here and Helena. I was married by then. Gillam was a blacksmith
by trade and had a good business. But in a little while he got into politics in Little Rock.
Yes, lady. If you would look over the old records you would see where he was made the keeper
of the jail. I don't know how many times he was elected to city council. He was the only colored
coroner Pulaski county ever had. He was in the legislature, too. I used to dress up and go
out to hear him make speeches. Wait a minute and I will get my scrap book and show you all
the things I cut from the papers printed about him in those days....

"Even after the colored folks got put out of public office, they still kept my husband for
a policeman. It was during those days he bought this home. Sixty-seven years we been living
right in this place--I guess--when did you say the war had its wind up? It was the only house
in a big forest. All my nine children was born right in this house. No ma'am, I never have
worked since I came here. My husband always made a good living. I had all I could do caring
for those nine children. When the Democrats came in power, of course all colored men were let
out of office. Then my husband went back to his blacksmith trade. He was always interested
in breeding fine horses. Kept two fine stallions; one was named 'Judge Hill', the other 'Pinchback'.
White folks from Kentucky, even, used to come here to buy his colts. Race people in Texas took
our colts as fast as they got born. Only recently we heard that stock from our stable was among
the best in Texas.

"The Ku Kluxers never bothered us in the least. I think they worked mostly out in the country.
We used to hear terrible tales of how they whipped and killed both white and black, for no
reason at all. Everybody was afraid of them and scared to go out after dark. They were a strong
organization, and secret. I'll tell you, lady, if the rough element from the north had stayed
out of the south the trouble of reconstruction would not happened. Yes ma'am, that's right.
You see, after great disasters like fires and earthquakes and such, always reckless criminal
class people come in its wake to rob and pillage. It was like that in the war days. It was
that bad element of the north what made the trouble. They tried to excite (incite) the colored
against their white friends. The white folks was still kind to them what had been their slaves.
They would have helped them get started. I know that. I always say that if the south could
of been left to adjust itself, both white and colored would been better off.

"Now about this voting business. I guess you don't find any colored folks what think they get
a fair deal. I don't, either. I don't think it is right that any tax payer should be deprived
of the right to vote. Why, lady, even my children that pay poll tax can't vote. One of my daughters
is a teacher in the public school. She tells me they send out notices that if teachers don't
pay a poll tax they may lose their place. But still they can't use it and vote in the primary.
My husband always believed in using your voting privilege. He has been dead over 30 years.
He had been appointed on the Grand Jury; had bought a new suit of clothes for that. He died
on the day he was to go, so we used his new suit to bury him in. I have been getting his soldier's
pension ever since. Yes ma'am, I have not had it hard like lots of ex-slaves.

"Before you go I'd like you to look at the bedspread I knit last year. My daughters was trying
to learn to knit. This craze for knitting has got everybody, it looks like. I heard them fussing
about they could not cast on the stitches. 'For land's sakes,' I said, 'hand me them needles.'
So I fussed around a little, and it all came back. What's funny about it is, I had not knitted
a stitch since I was about ten. Old mistress used to make me knit socks for the soldiers. I
remember I knit ten pair out of coarse yarn, while she was doing a couple for the officer out
of fine wool and silk mixed. I used to knit pulse warmers, and 'half-handers',--I bet you don't
know what they was. Yes, that's right; gloves without any fingers, 'cepting a thumb and it
didn't have any end. I could even knit on four needles when I was little. We used to make our
needles out of bones, wire, smooth, straight sticks,--anything that would slip the yarn. Well,
let me get back to this spread. In a few minutes it all came back. I began knitting washrags.
Got faster and faster. Didn't need to look at the stitches. The girls are so scared something
will happen to me, they won't let me do any work. Now I had found something I could do. When
they saw how fast I work, they say: 'Mother, why don't you make something worth while? Why
make so many washrags?' So I started the bedspread. I guess it took me six months, at odd times.
I got it done in time to take to Ft. Worth to the big exhibit of the National Federation of
Colored Women's Clubs. My daughter was the national president that year. If you'll believe
it, this spread took first prize. Look, here's the blue ribbon pinned on yet. What they thought
was so wonderful was that I knit every stitch of it without glasses. But that is not so funny,
because I have never worn glasses in my life. I guess that is some more of my Indian blood telling.

"Sometimes I have to laugh at some of these young people. I call them young because I knew
them when they were babies. But they are already all broken down old men and women. I still
feel young inside. I feel that I have had a good life."

  --- 11 1938
  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: J. N. Gillespie
                      1112 Park Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 75

"I was born near Galveston, in Texas, January 19, 1863, so they tell me. I been in this town
and been living right here at 1112 Park Street for fifty-three years and ain't never had no
trouble with anybody.

"My grandparents were Gillespie's. My grandma was an Indian woman. She was stolen off the reservation--her
and her daughter. The daughter was about twelve years old and big enough to wait table. Both
of them were full blooded Cherokee Indians. My grandma married a slave, and when she growed
up, my mother married a slave; but my mother's parents were both Indians, and one of my father's
parents was white, so you see about three-fourths of me is something else. My grandmother's
name before her first marriage was Courtney and my mother's first name was Parthenia.

"When they were stolen, they were made slaves. Nick Toliver bought 'em. He was their first
master, far as I heard 'em say. After old man Nick Toliver died, Tom Brewer bought my mother.
Toliver and Brewer were the only two masters she had.

"After freedom came, my grandma took back her own name, Gillespie. Grandma's second husband
was named Berry Green. She was free and in the Indian reservation when she married Gillespie,
but she was a slave when she married Berry Green.

"After my mother came to be of age, she married a man named Willis. He was a slave. That is
why I am like I am now. If my grandma had stayed in the nation, I never would have been a slave,
and I wouldn't need to be beatin' around here trying to get just bread and meat.

"After freedom, she taken her mother's name by her free husband, Gillespie, and she made her
husband take it too. That how I got the name of Gillespie."

Occupation of Forefathers

"After they were made slaves, my grandmother cooked and my mother waited table and worked as
a house girl. My grandma used to make clothes too, and she could work on one of these big looms."

Patrollers

"My mother told me that when the boys would go out to a dance, they would tie a rope across
the road to make the horses of the patrollers stumble and give the dancers time to get away.
Sometimes the horses' legs would be broken."

Subject's Occupation

"I wants to work and can't get work; so they ain't no use to worry. I used to cook. That is
all I did for a living. I cooked as long as I could get something for it. I can't get a pension."

Slave Houses

"I didn't see no log houses when I growed up. Everything was frame."

Right After the War

"Right after the War, my mother stayed around the house and continued to work for her master.
I don't know what they paid her. I can't remember just how they got free but I think the soldiers
gave 'em the notification. They stayed on the place till I was big enough to work. I didn't
do no work in slave time because I wasn't old enough."

Choked on Watermelon Seeds

"One day I was stealing watermelons with some big boys and I got choked on some seeds. The
melon seeds got in my throat. I yelled for help and the boys ran away. Old Tom Brewer made
me get on my hands and jump up and down to get the seeds out."

Leaving Galveston

"I was a small boy, might have been seven or eight years old, when I left Galveston. We came
to Bradley County, here in Arkansas. From Bradley my mother took me to Pine Bluff. After I
got big I went back to Texas. Then I came from Texas here fifty-three years ago, and have been
living here ever since, cooking for hotels and private families.

"I never was arrested in my life. I never been in trouble. I never had a fight. Been living
in the same place ever since I first came here--right here at 1112 Park Street. I belong to
the Christian Church at Thirteenth and Cross Streets. I quit working around the yard and the
building because they wouldn't pay me anything. They promised to pay me, but they wouldn't do it."

Interviewer's Comment

Gillespie has an excellent reputation, as indeed have most of the ex-slaves in this city. He
is clear and unfaltering in his memory. He is deliberate and selects what he means to tell.
He is never discourteous. He is a little nervous and cannot be held long at a time. Indian
characteristics in him are not especially prominent, but you note them readily after learning
of his ancestry. He is brown but slightly copper in color, and his profile has the typical
Indian appearance. He is a little taciturn, and sometimes acts on his decisions before he announces
them. I cultivated him about three weeks.

  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Will Glass
                      715 W. Eighth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 50
  Occupation: All phases of paving work
  [HW: [Bit Dog's Foot Off]]

"My grandfather was named Joe Glass. His master was named Glass. I forget the first name. My
grandfather on my mother's side was named Smith. His old master was named Smith. The grandfather
Joe was born in Alabama. Grandfather Smith was born in North Carolina."

Whippings

"There were good masters and mean masters. Both of my old grandfathers had good masters. I
had an uncle, Anderson Fields, who had a tough master. He was so tough that Uncle Anderson
had to run away. They'd whip him and do around, and he would run away. Then they would get
the dogs after him and they would run him until he would climb a tree to get away from them.
They would come and surround the tree and make him come down and they would whip him till the
blood ran, and sometimes they would make the dogs bite him and he couldn't do nothing about
it. One time he bit a dog's foot off. They asked him why he did that and he said the dog bit
him and he bit him back. They whipped him again. They would take him home at night and put
what they called the ball and chain on him and some of the others they called unruly to keep
them from running away.

"They didn't whip my grandfathers. Just one time they whipped Grandfather Joe. That was because
he wouldn't give his consent for them to whip his wife. He wouldn't stand for it and they strapped
him. He told them to strap him and leave her be. He was a good worker and they didn't want
to kill him, so they strapped him and let her be like he said."

Picnics

"Both of my grandfathers said their masters used to give picnics. They would have a certain
day and they would give them all a good time and let them enjoy themselves. They would kill
a cow or some kids and hogs and have a barbecue. They kept that up after freedom. Every nineteenth
of June, they would throw a big picnic until I got big enough to see and know for myself. But
their masters gave them theirs in slavery times. They gave it to them once a year and it was
on the nineteenth of June then.

"Grandfather Joe said when he wanted to marry Jennie, she was under her old master, the man
that Anderson worked under. Old man Glass found that Grandfather Joe was slipping off to old
man Field's to see Grandma Jennie, who was on Field's place, and old man Fields went over and
told Glass that he would either have to sell Glass to him or buy Jennie from him. Old man Glass
bought Jennie and Grandfather Joe got her.

"After old man Glass bought Jennie, he held up a broom and they would have to jump over it
backwards and then old man Glass pronounced them man and wife.

"Grandfather Joe died when I was a boy ten years old. Grandfather Smith died in 1921. He was
eighty years old when he died. Grandfather Joe was seventy-two years old when he died. He died
somewhere along in 1898."

Whitecaps

"I heard them speak of the Ku Klux often. But they didn't call them Ku Klux; they called them
whitecaps. The whitecaps used to go around at night and get hold of colored people that had
been living disorderly and carry them out and whip them. I never heard them say that they whipped
anybody for voting. If they did, it wasn't done in our neighborhood."

Worship

"Uncle Anderson said that old man Fields didn't allow them to sing and pray and hold meetings,
and they had to slip off and slip aside and hide around to pray. They knew what to do. People
used to stick their heads under washpots to sing and pray. Some of them went out into the brush
arbors where they could pray and shout without being disturbed.

"Grandfather Joe and Grandfather Smith both said that they had seen slaves have that trouble.
Of course, it never happened on the plantations where they were brought up. Uncle Anderson
said that they would sometimes go off and get under the washpot and sing and pray the best
they could. When they prayed under the pot, they would make a little hole and set the pot over
it. Then they would stick their heads under the pot and say and sing what they wanted."

Slave Sales

"Grandfather Joe and Grandfather Smith used to say that when a child was born if it was a child
that was fine blooded they would put it on the block and sell it away from its parents while
it was little. Both of my grandfathers were sold away from their parents when they were small
kids. They never knew who their parents were.

"When my oldest auntie was born, my mother said she was sold about two years before freedom.
Aunt Emma was only two years old then when she was sold. Mother never met her until she was
married and had a family. They would sell the children slaves of that sort at auction, and
let them go to the highest bidder."

Opinions

"My grandfather brought me up strictly. I don't know what they thought about the young people
of their day, but I know what I think. I will tell you. At first I searched myself. Kids in
the time I came along had to go by a certain rule. They had to go by it.

"We don't see to our children doing right as our parents saw to our doing. It would be good
if we could get ourselves together and bring these young people back where they belong. What
ruined the young folks is our lack of discipline. We send them to school but that is all, and
that is not enough. We ought to take it on ourselves to see that they are learning as they
ought to learn and what they ought to learn.

"I belong to Bethel A. M. E. Church. I married about 1919, November 16. I have just one kid
and two grand kids."

  --- 13 1937
  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Frank William Glenn
                      Des Arc, Arkansas
  Age: 73

"I was born June 1864 in Des Arc. My parents named Richard Lewis Glenn and Pleasant Glynn.
My mama died when I was small. I recollect hearing em say the southern women oughtn't marry
the Yankee men, there was so much difference in their lives. A few widows and girls did marry
Yankee men, very few. Southern folks jes' hated em.

"Master Wash Glenn had a son named Boliver. He may had more. I don't know much about em. We
stayed there after the war for a long time then went to work for Mr. Bedford Bethels father.
We worked there a long time then went to work for Mr. Jim Erwin. My papa always farmed. I heard
my mama say she washed and sewed during slavery. There was three boys and one girl in our famlee.
I heard bout the bushwhackers and Ku Klux. I was too young to tell bout what they did do. I
never did see none dressed up.

"I don't fool wid votin' much. I have voted. I don't understand votin' much and how they run
the govermint. My time of usefulness is nearly gone.

"The present time serves me hard. I got my leg caught in a wagon wheel and so sprained I been
cripple ever since. The rheumatiz settles in it till I can't sleep at night. My wife quit me.
I got two boys in Chicago, the girl and her ma in Brinkley. They sho don't help me. I have
to rent my house. I don't own nuthin'. I work all I'm able.

"The present generation is selfish and restless. I don't know what goner become of em. Times
is changing too fast for me. I jess look on and wonder what going to come on next."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Ella Glespie
                      Brassfield, Arkansas
  Age: 71

"I was born the third year after the surrender. I was born in Okolona, Mississippi. My parents
was Jane Bowen and Henry Harrison. Ma had seven children. They lived on the Gates place at
freedom. I'm the onliest one of my kin living anywheres 'bout now. Ma never was sold but pa was.

"Parson Caruthers brought pa from Alabama. He was a good runner and when he was little he throwd
his hip outer j'int running races. Then Parson Caruthers learnt him a trade--a shoemaker. When
he was still nothing but a lad he was sold for quite a sum of money. When emancipation come
on he could read and write and make change.

"So den he was out in the world cripple. He started teaching school. He had been a preacher,
too, durin' slavery. He preached and taught school. He was justice of the peace and representative
for two terms from Chickasaw County in the state legislature. I heard them talk about that
and when I started to school Mr. Suggs was the white man principal. Pa was one teacher and
there was some more teachers. He was a teacher a long time. He was eighty odd and ma was sixty
odd when she died. Both died in Mississippi.

"My folks said Master Gates was good. I knowd my pa's young Master Gates. Pa said he never
got a whooping. They made a right smart of money outen his work. He said some of the boots
he made brung high as twenty dollars. Pa had a good deal of Confederate bills as I recollects.
Ma said some of them on Gates' place got whoopings.

"When they would be at picnics and big corn shellings or shuckings either, all Gates' black
folks was called 'Heavy Gates'; they was fed and treated so well. I visited back at home in
Mississippi. Went to the quarters and all nineteen years ago. I heard them still talking about
the 'Heavy Gates'. I was one the offspring.

"Ma cooked for her old mistress years and years. Mrs. Rogers in South Carolina give ma to Miss
Rebecca, her daughter, and said, 'Take good care of her, you might need her.' They come in
ox wagons to Mississippi. Ma was a little girl then when Miss Rebecca married Dr. Bowen. Ma
hated to leave Miss Rebecca Bowen 'cause in the first place she was her half-sister. She said
Master Rogers was her own pa. Her ma was a cook and house girl ahead of her. Ma was a fine
cook. Heap better than I ever was 'cause she never lacked the stuff to fix and I come short there.

"I heard ma tell this. Wherever she lived and worked, at Dr. Bowen's, I reckon. The soldiers
come one day and took their sharp swords from out their belts and cut off heads of turkeys,
chickens, geese, ducks, guineas, and took a load off and left some on the ground. They picked
up the heads and what was left and made a big washpot full of dumplings. She said the soldiers
wasted so much.

"When I was young I seen a 'style block' at Holly Springs, Mississippi. I was going to Tucker
Lou School, ten miles from Jackson. That was way back in the seventies. A platform was up in
the air under a tree and two stumps stood on ends for the steps. It was higher than three steps
but that is the way they got up on the platform they tole me.

"I think times are a little better. I gits a little ironing and six dollars and commodities.
The young generation is taking on funny ways. I think they do very well morally 'cepting their
liquor drinking habits. That is worse, I think. They are advancing in learning. I think times
a little better.

"My husband had been out here. We married and I come here. I didn't like here a bit but now
my kin is all dead and I know folks here better. I like it now very well. He was a farmer and
mill man."

  Interviewer: Mary D. Hudgins
  Person Interviewed: Joe Golden
  Age: 86
  Home: 722 Gulpha Street, Hot Springs, Ark.

"Yes, ma'am to be sure I remembers you. I knew your father and all his brothers. I knew your
mother's father and your grandmother, and all the Denglers. Your grandpappy was mighty good
to me. Your grandmother was too. Many's the day your uncle Fred followed me about while I was
hunting. I was the only one what your grandpappy would let hunt in his garden. Yes, ma'am!
If your grandmother would hear a shot across the hill in the garden, she'd say, 'Go over and
see who it is.' And your grandfather would come. He'd chase them away. But if it was me, he'd
go back home and he'd tell her, 'It's just Joe. He's not going to carry away more than he can
eat. Joe'll be all right.'

"Yes, ma'am. I was born down at Magnet Cove. I belonged to Mr. Andy Mitchell. He was a great
old man, he was. Did he have a big farm and lots of black folks? Law, miss, he didn't have
nothing but children, just lots of little children. He rented me and my pappy and my mother
to the Sumpters right here in Hot Springs.

"I can remember Hot Springs when there wasn't more than three houses here. Folks used to come
thru and lots of folks used to stay. But there wasn't more than three families lived here part
of the time.

"Yes, ma'am we worked. But we had lots of fun too. Them was exciting times. I can remember
when folks got to shooting at each, other right in the street. I run off and taken to the woods
when that happened.

"No, miss, we didn't live in Hot Springs all thru the war. When the Federals taken Little Rock
they taken us to Texas. We stayed there until '68. Then we come back to Hot Springs.

"Yes, miss, Hot Springs was a good place to make money. Lots of rich folks was coming to the
hotels. Yes, ma'am, I made money. How'd I make it? Well lots of ways. I used to run. I was
the fastest runner what was. Folks would bet on us, and I'd always win. Then I used to shine
shoes. Made money at it too. Lots of days I made as much as $4 or $5. Sometimes I didn't even
stop to eat. But I was making money, and I didn't care.

"Then there was a feller, a doctor he was. He give me a gun. I used to like to hunt. Hunted
all over these mountains[1], hunted quail and hunted squirrel and a few times I killed deers.
The man what gave me the gun he promised me twenty five cents apiece for all the quail I could
bring him. Lots of times I came in with them by the dozen.

"I tried to save my money. Didn't spend much. I'd bring it home to my mother. She'd put it
away for me. But if my pappy knowed I got money he'd take it away from me and buy whiskey.
You might know why, miss. He was part Creek--yes ma'am, part Creek Indian.

"Does you remember chinquapins? They used to be all over the hill up yonder.[1] I used to get
lots of them. Sell them too. One time I chased a deer up there[1]. Got him with a knife, didn't
have a gun. The dogs cornered him for me. Best dog I ever had, his name was Abraham Lincoln.
He was extra good for a possom dog. Once I got a white possom in the same place I got a deer.
It was way out yonder--that place there ain't nothing but rocks. Yes, ma'am, Hell's Half Acre.[2]

"Yes, miss, I has made lots of money in my time. Can't work none now. Wish you had got to me
three years ago. That was before I had my stroke. Can't think of what I want to say, and can't
make my mouth say it. You being patient with me. I got to take time to think.

"Me and my wife we gets along pretty well. We have our home, and then I got other property.[3]
We was real well off. I had $1200 in the bank--Webb's Bank when it failed.[4] Never got but
part of my money back.

"When I sold out my bootblack stand I bought a butcher shop. I made a lot of money there. I
had good meat and folks, black folks and white folks came to buy from me. So you remembers
my barbecue, do you? Yes, miss, I always tried to make it good. Yes, I remembers your pappy
used to always buy from me.

"Your grandmother was a good woman. I remember when your Uncle Freddy had been following me
around all day while I was hunting--it was in your grandpappy's garden--his vineyard too--it
was mighty big. I told Freddy he could have a squirrel or a quail. He took the squirrel and
I gave him a couple of quail too. Went home with him and showed your grandmother how they ought
to be fixed.

"I can remember before your father lived in Hot Springs. He and his brothers used to come thru
from Polk County. They'd bring a lot of cotton to sell. Yes, ma'am lots of folks came thru.
They'd either sell them here or go on to Little Rock. Lots of Indians--along with cotton and
skins they'd bring loadstone. Then when your pappy and his brothers had a hardware store I
bought lots of things from them. Used to be some pretty bad men in Hot Springs--folks was mean
in them days. I remember when your father kept two men from killing each other. Wish, I wish
I could remember better. This stroke has about got me.

"Yes, miss, that was the garden. I used to sell garden truck too. Had a bush fence around it
long before a wire one. Folks used to pass up other folks to buy truck from me. Your mother did.

