"Mr. Busby, when asked respecting the prevalence of bush-rangers, who are escaped convicts
and others who have taken to the bush, says, in his Evidence (5th Aug. 1831,) that within the
last twelve months, or two years, bush-rangers have been so numerous that it was scarcely possible
to travel a hundred miles on the road without being stopped: there was scarcely a newspaper,
in which there were not two or three instances of persons, of every rank, being stopped. It
was quite an unusual thing formerly--but of late there has been a regular system of highway
robbery. The laws that have been enacted to put down this horrible state of things, will serve
for an index of the condition of the colony. They do away with every appearance of personal
liberty. 'One act empowered magistrates to issue a warrant, authorizing constables to enter
or break into any house, within their district or county, by day or night, at their own discretion;
and to seize any person they might suspect to be highway robbers or burglars; or any individual
in the colony, without any warrant or authority, may take another into custody, on the mere
suspicion that he is a convict illegally at large: if it appear to the magistrate that he had
a just or probable cause for suspicion, he is justified in doing so. The onus of proving that
he is not a convict illegally at large, is thrown upon the suspected person, and if that is
not established to the satisfaction of the magistrate, he is liable to be retained in custody,
or sent to Sydney to be examined and dealt with.'

"The number of executions in New South Wales in the year 1830 exceeded the whole number of
executions in England and Wales, in the same year; which, taking the proportion of the populations
of the countries, makes capital punishments upwards of three hundred and twenty-five times
as frequent as in the mother country. This horrid fact is pretty well, of itself, an answer
to all argument drawn from the idea of Reformation. But direct testimony is abundant. Major
McArthur, the son of one of the wealthiest and most extensive settlers in the colony, and to
whom it owes so much for its present progress in production and commerce, states, 'It is painful
to know that those whose sentences have expired, or to whom pardons have been granted, seldom
or ever incline to reform, even when they have acquired property. Intoxication and fraud are
habitual to them; and hardly six persons can be named throughout the colony, who, being educated
men, and having been transported for felonies, have afterwards become sober, moral, and industrious
members of the community. Crime is of constant occurrence, and so completely organized, that
cattle are carried off from the settlers in large numbers, and slaughtered for the traders
in Sydney, who contract with the commissariat. It is not, therefore, the vicious habits alone
of the town which are to be dreaded, but the effects that are communicated and felt throughout
the country. The agricultural labourer is encouraged to plunder his master, by finding a ready
sale for the property he steals, and whenever his occupations call him to the towns, he sees
and yields himself to the vicious habits around him. He returns intoxicated and unsettled to
his employer's farm, and incites his comrades to the same sensual indulgences, with equal disregard
of the risk and the consequences. To these causes the present vitiated and disorganized state
of the convicts in New South Wales is chiefly attributable; and the extent of the evil maybe
in some degree estimated, when it is stated that the expense of the police establishment amounts
to more than 20,000l. per annum for a population of 40,000 souls."

Foreign Quarterly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER

