'A good many. You see, such a number of the members of the lower portion of the higher civilisation
have moral principles that need training. The moral principle is the latest product of evolution,
or so the professor says, and evolution has not yet got quite into the way of always turning
it out first class. Like everything else, it wants practice. Some moral principles are excellent;
but others are really bungles, and require periodical prison culture. At present we need policemen
for the transplanting; but it is hoped that, in the course of an era or two, the automatic
method will be so much further developed that a member of the higher civilisation who gets
very drunk, or steals, will put himself to prison at once, by reflex action. I told you about
that: it is a lengthy subject; but the kingfisher and I quite mastered it one day, and I daresay
you will. It is much easier than portions of the Thirty-nine Articles.'

'I know what that is,' said Queen Mab; 'the missionaries were talking about it once.'

'I have taken a good deal of trouble,' said the Owl, 'but there were parts of the Thirty-nine
Articles I never could make out. They are a kind of tinned theology, and so much tinned that
no one appreciates them but the theologians.'

'Why is the theology tinned?' asked the Queen. 'Why don't they have it fresh and fresh?'

'They like it old,' said the Owl. 'They have tried various ways of treating it, for theology
does not keep well in a scientific atmosphere. Frozen theology has been experimented with by
Archdeacon Farrar and others, and has some vogue. But the popular taste prefers it tinned.
And yet it is very tough, in Articles. I am surprised that no one has written a simple explanation
of them: "Primer of the Thirty-nine Articles," "The Thirty-nine Articles made Easy," or "Thirty-nine
Articles for Beginners;" but no one ever has. It is a book that is very much needed, and if
I had any influence with the theologians I would ask them to do it at once. In days like ours,
when floods of Nonconformity and Socialism are pouring in on every hand, the very foundations
of Church and State are being sapped for want of a plain popular guide ta the Thirty-nine Articles,
that a child could understand. A child couldn't expect to find them clear in their present
condensed state, could he now? But then, when I come to think of it, perhaps there is no reason
why he should.' And the owl fell into a reverie.

After this they departed in search of a more sequestered resting-place, and ultimately alighted
in Kensington Gardens. And there they came upon a Democrat and an Aristocrat who was also a
landholder, and the Aristocrat was saying:

'What will you do without an aristocracy? What will you look up to?' 'We shall do,' said the
Democrat, 'very well indeed. We shall do, in fact, a good deal better; for we shall be an aristocracy
in ourselves, and look up to ourselves, and reverence humanity. What, I should like to know,
has the British aristocracy done for us?'

'We have set you an example,' replied his companion impressively.

'We have told you what to do and what not to do. We have employed you; we have let you vote
for us; we have represented you in Church and State; we have given you a popular education;
and a pretty use you have made of it! We have, in short,' he continued, trying hard to remember
the popular maxim, 'cherished you like a viper, and you turn again and rend us.'

'All that,' said the Democrat, 'you did because you couldn't help it.' 'We have been,' exclaimed
the Aristocrat with deep pathos, 'as lights in a benighted land. We have improved the breed
of horses and cultivated the fine arts, and literature, and china, and the fashions, and French
cookery--'

'And drinking, and racing, and gambling, and betting, and pigeon-shooting,' put in the Democrat
thoughtfully. 'So you have.'

'We have come to church,' continued the Aristocrat unheeding, 'and you have surveyed us from
the free seats--when you were there. I regret to say that your attendance at the established
places of worship has been far from satisfactory. We have allowed you to pay us the highest
rents you could afford, solely to develop in you the sense of competition and a stimulus to
progress, and we have daily displayed to you, in our persons and equipments, the advantages
of the higher life. Our wives and daughters have played the piano, done crewel work, danced,
sung and skated, and painted on plaques for your edification and improvement. We have trained
ourselves, physically, mentally, morally, and aesthetically to be a thing of beauty in your
eyes and a joy for ever. Alas, you have no vision for the beautiful and intrinsically complete;
you can't appreciate an aristocracy when you see one. We have even flung open our parks and
grounds for your benefit, and let you admire our mansions, and you knocked down the ornaments,
and smudged the tapestry and the antimacassars, and trod on the flower-beds, and pulled up
the young trees, and threw orange-peel into the fountains, and ridiculed the statuary. Then
you asked us for peasant proprietorship.'

'It wasn't me,' said the Democrat with unusual humility. 'It was the British public.'

'And what are you,' retorted his companion firmly--for he felt that he had scored a point--'but
a representative of the British public? Alas, I could weep for your short-sightedness! When
the reins of the ship of State--no, the helm of the chariot of Government, is in the hands
of a semi-barbarous public, what will it do with it? The old aristocratic ballast once thrown
overboard, it will drive that chariot upon the rocks of anarchy, it will overturn it upon the
shores of revolution. And you, contemptible tool of an infatuated majority, what will you do
then? Ah, then, too late you will cry, "Give me back my aristocracy, the aristocracy I so madly
flung away!" When you have the Church and State flying about your ears, you will wish you had
minded what we said to you. You will long with remorse unspeakable for the old English gentleman,
the bulwark of the land; but the good old English gentleman will be no more. He will have gone
to the vaults of his fathers, to the happy hunting-grounds of the noble lord.'

'You are really very eloquent,' said the Democrat, with more politeness than his wont ('I didn't
think he had it in him,' he murmured under his breath.) 'But you exaggerate our intentions.
We are only democrats: we are not Nihilists. We desire justice.'

'Ah, that is what you all say!' exclaimed the Aristocrat hastily. 'I have heard enough about
justice: I wish it had never been invented. Never knew any of your fine-sounding phrases yet
that did not end in gunpowder.'

'You mistake,' said the Democrat severely. 'Our requirements are few and simple: Universal
suffrage, the abolition of the peers, of entail, and of primogeniture, the overthrow of establishments
and armaments equally bloated, the right to marry the deceased wife's sister, the confiscation
of landed property by the State--'

'Oh lord, yes!' groaned the Aristocrat 'I thought you were coming to that next. Take our landed
property, do--I wish you joy of it! What with all your Communistic legislation and bad harvests,
and backing good things that don't come off--like an ass as I was--by Jove, I feel disposed
to quit the whole business and compete for a Mandarin's Button in China. It's the only country
for a British Aristocracy to live comfortably in and be properly appreciated, and you can't
come sneaking about with your red-hot Republicanism, for they are all good Conservatives. Who
ever heard of The Chinese Revolution?'

