As to the racing of next week--I have not the faintest idea where it is, what it is, or why
it is!--but such trifles do not disturb me, and I will proceed to my usual prophetic utterance
on the event of the week!

Yours devotedly, LADY GAY.

THE BANK HOLIDAY STAKES SELECTION.

  In the sweet month of August no longer I choose,
    By the river or seaside to tarry!
  Preferring, in depths of the country to lose
    All chance of encounter with "'ARRY!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"MINIME!"--The other day the SPEAKER admitted that he couldn't remember the Latin for "Yes."
What a lot of time, trouble, and money our own countrymen would be spared could they only occasionally
forget that there is such a word as "Yes" in English! How many marriages, which have ended
in misery, would never have come off but for this mischievous monosyllable! But to continue
this is to be Hamletising, and to consider too curiously. For the SPEAKER to own it, stamps
him as the genuine article, a Candid PEEL.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WAIL OF A PESSIMIST POET.

  O lift me out of this weary world,
    And put me on a tree,
      For life is all noughts
      And crosses, or thoughts
    That are busy for brawl and spree!

  For where is the man would strike the lyre,
    Or spurn with his foot the thief,
      Or melt all day,
      In a Midsummer way,
    At the sight of repentant grief?

  No! Lift me up to a leafy bough,
    Where my feet may play in the breeze,
      If my hot head there
      Still singe my hair,
    My heels may be ready to freeze!

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR MISERIES.

NO. II.--THE WINGED HAT.

  My hat, my hat--away it flew--
    The Strand was damp, the wind blew strong--
  My tall silk hat, so bright and new;
    Ye Bishops, tell me was it wrong
  That, in that moment's agony,
  My language, like my hat, flew free?

  Away in swift pursuit I dashed,
    The hat went scudding fast before;
  By Busmen mocked, by Hansoms splashed,
    The more I ran, it flew the more.
  While boys screeched forth, in chorus vile,
  "I'll lay the toff don't catch 'is tile."

  On, on--at last it seemed to tire
    Of pavements and pursuing feet.
  It soared, then settled in the mire,
    Full in the middle of the street,
  A mud-stained, shattered relic--not
  The bright new hat I bought from SCOTT.

  Now was my time; I rushed--but no--
    Fate ever mocks an ardent man;
  Even as I rushed, unwieldy, slow,
    Bore down a ponderous Pickford-Van,
  And under two broad wheels crushed flat
  My loved but suicidal hat.

  Have hats got souls, and can they hate?
    Are street-boys higher than the brute?
  Avails it to discuss of fate,
    Free-will, fore-knowledge absolute?
  Nay, why of all created things
  Should new silk hats be made with wings?

  I know not. Wherefore, oh ye powers,
    Speed me to some deserted land,
  Where blow no winds and fall no showers,
    Far from the street-boys and the Strand.
  There all unfriended let me dwell,
  A hatless hermit in a cell.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CYCLE-RIDING DUSTMAN.

A VERY NEW SONG TO A VERY OLD TUNE.

AIR--"THE LITERARY DUSTMAN."

    ["A resolution on the Agenda of the Greenwich Board of Works
    runs as follows:--'That, in order to enable the foreman of the
    dustmen in the Parish of St. Paul, Deptford, to get about that
    parish with more expedition, and so superintend the work of
    the men under his control to greater advantage than is now
    possible, a tricycle be obtained for his use, at a cost not
    exceeding £21 1s. 6d.'" Daily Chronicle.]

  BUMBLE will ope his eyes, egad,
    In hutter consternation.
  He'd think as soon of a park-prad
    For covies in my station.
  Our Board o' Works knows wot is wot,
    And has a feller-feeling.
  About the parish must I trot?
    No, hang it! I'll go Wheeling!

CHORUS.

    Out o' the road! The highway clear!
      OSMOND's the Cyclist's fust man;
    And I, by co-in-side-ance clear,
      Am the fust Cycling Dustman!
    The happy foreman Dustman!
      The Cycle-riding Dustman!
    Yes, by a co-in-side-ance queer,
      I'm the fust Cycling Dustman!

  Old fogies to the papers write,
    Grumbling about their dust, Sirs.
  They says we're scarce and imperlite,
    Unless we're well tipped fust, Sirs.
  When I wheels round on my machine,
    Like ZIMMERMAN on hisn,
  If we don't keep their dustbins clean,
    Wy, pop me into prison!

CHORUS.

    Their refuse-pails we'll promptly clear,
      When on the wheels I'm fust man;
    And even sour old maids shall cheer
      The Cycle-riding Dustman! &c.

  Cycles for Dust-hos! Arter that,
    It's Hosborne to my hattic
  That Dusty BOB of the flap 'at
    Will turn haristocratic.
  BUMBLE, old buck, I cannot tell
    'Ow bloomin' proud I feel, man,
  Old Shanks's mare I once knew well,
    But now I'm turned swell Wheelman.

CHORUS.

    Good Greenwich Board o' Works! Hurroo!
      Elated? Ain't I just, man!
    Show the Big D! 'Twill bring to you
      The Cycle-riding Dustman! &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

Written after an indefinite Period.--This is a most useful memorandum, as it gives an idea
of what has been done hitherto. Our firm seems to have wisely kept the action open by paying
the term-fee. As our late respected client's heir has for a son a young Barrister not in very
large practice, I am not surprised that we are requested to continue the action. Of course,
the son of our late respected client's heir, is to be briefed. Well, I dare say we shall be
able to do something. Have perhaps quite a pleasant time of it. At any rate, we have made a
move by taking out a summons before the Chief Clerk. (Signed) JAMES TOMPKINS, Surviving Partner
of Messrs. ROE & Co.

Written Three Years after the last Entry.--I am very glad I insisted upon looking through the
papers when I accepted the brief in Brown v. Marcellus. This paper is fairly accurate, save
that it describes me as "a Barrister not in very large practice." That is a misstatement. I
have been called only ten years, and yet last term I made enough to pay for my share of our
Chambers and half the salary of our Clerk in common. Not in large practice, indeed! But to
return to Brown v. Marcellus. We have done splendidly. We have been before the Courts, and
taken it again up to the Lords. The contention I have held for the last three years is at last
said to be correct. We have a right to the body of PITT WELLINGTON, and when we have brought
that body before the Court, the Court will order it to be educated as a Reformed Revivalist
of the New Connexion. I consider the establishment of this point a great forensic victory.
(Signed) ARTHUR BRIEFLESS, Barrister-at Law.

Written Six Years later.--After five years' diligent search, we have discovered the whereabouts
of Mr. PITT WELLINGTON, according to the instructions furnished us by Messrs. ROE, NEPHEWS,
TOMPKINS AND BACKGAMMON. We regret, however, to say that it will be impossible to carry out
the instructions of the Court to produce him, that he might be brought up as a Reformed Revivalist
of the New Connexion (a sect, we fancy, that disappeared some twenty years ago), as the alleged
infant, the object of our search, died at the advanced age of ninety-two during the past summer.
We add this mem to this paper, as the document seems to have reference to the matter we have
in hand, and which now must ever be an incomplete suit. (Signed) HAND AND GLOVE. Private Inquiry
Agents.

Final Endorsement.--Messrs. DIGGE AND DELVE having had the honour to be commanded to make the
necessary arrangements for the obsequies of the late Mr. PITT WELLINGTON, beg to say (on this
memorandum) that they have not been fortunate enough to carry out the transaction to their
entire satisfaction. Messrs. D. AND D. were able to ascertain the funeral rites of the Reformed
Revivalists of the New Connexion (very poor and inexpensive rites), but have found out that
the late Mr. PITT WELLINGTON himself placed a difficulty in their path. Messrs. D. AND D. have
ascertained with regret that the late Mr. PITT WELLINGTON has been cremated, having died a
Buddhist.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVICE GRATIS.--STARTING IN TRADE. (TO "FRUGALITY.")--You say that you have opened a "general
shop" for the sale, among other things, of milk, paraffin oil, tobacco, sweetmeats, and fried
fish, and you ask whether it will be necessary to take out any kind of licence, and if so,
what?--Surely you are joking. If so, a game-licence might suit you; or why not try the Examiner
of Plays? If you are serious, it seems to us no further licence is needed; you have taken enough
already.

       *       *       *       *       *

"LES DEUX CHARLIES," i.e. the Common Serjeant (resigned) and the Recorder. The one is "Not
there at all," and the other is "HALL there."