It seems to have been at this time that Lady Burton prevailed upon her husband to range himself
nominally among the Catholics. "About a year before her death," Mr. T. Douglas Murray writes
to me, "Lady Burton showed me a paper of considerable length, all of it in Sir R. Burton's
writing and signed by himself, in which he declared that he had lived and would die a Catholic,
adhering to all the rites and usages of the Church." [615] Curiously enough, while bringing
forward all the evidence she could adduce to prove that Burton was a Christian, Lady Burton
makes no reference in her book to this paper. Perhaps it was because Sir Richard continued
to gibe at the practices of her church just as much after his "conversion" as before. However,
it gratified her to know that if he was not a good Catholic, he was, at any rate, the next
best thing--a Catholic. An intimate friend of Burton to whom I mentioned this circumstance
observed to me, "I am sure, that Burton never in any way accepted the idea of a personal God;
but, rather than be perpetually importuned and worried, he may have pretended to give in to
Lady Burton, as one does to a troublesome child."

Lady Burton tells us that during the last few years of his life he used to lock the outer doors
of his house twice a day and then engage in private prayer; on the other hand, friends of Burton
who knew him and were with him almost to the last have received this statement with skepticism.

Lady Burton's happiness was further increased by the present of a very beautiful oil painting
representing the Virgin Mary, done by Miss Emily Baker, Dr. Baker's sister. It was generally
known by the Burtons, from the colour of its drapery, as "the Blue Madonna." [616]

167. Visit of Arbuthnot, Last Letter to Mr. Payne, May 1890.

On May 11th Mr. Arbuthnot paid a second visit to Trieste, and the pleasure that the vent gave
to Sir Richard is reflected in a letter to Mr. Payne written the same month. "At last!" he
says, "Arbuthnot has brought the volume [Payne's Alaeddin] and the MS. [Zotenberg's MS. of
Zayn al-Asnam which Burton had lent to Mr. Payne]." He then goes on to say that he has kicked
up "an awful shindy with the Athenaeum Club," about something, just as if he had not been kicking
up awful shindies with all sorts of people ever since his schoolboy days at Tours. "I am delighted,"
he goes on, "with the volume [Payne's Alaeddin] and especially with the ascription, [617] so
grateful in its friendly tone. I have read every word with the utmost pleasure. We might agree
to differ about Cazotte. [618] I think you are applying to 1750 the moralities of 1890. Arbuthnot's
visit has quite set me up, like a whiff of London in the Pontine marshes of Trieste. He goes
to-day, d---- the luck! but leaves us hopes of meeting during the summer in Switzerland or
thereabouts. He is looking the picture of health and we shall return him to town undamaged.
Best of good fortune to Bandello." [619]

Burton and Arbuthnot had spent many a delightful hour sitting out on Burton's verandah, smoking,
listening to the nightingales, and enjoying sea and landscape. It must not be supposed that
erotic literature was the only subject upon which they conversed, though as hierarchs of the
Kama Shastra Society they naturally bestowed upon that and curious learning considerable attention.
Religion was also discussed, and Arbuthnot's opinions may be gathered from the following citation
from his unpublished Life of Balzac which is now in my hands. "The great coming struggle of
the 20th century," he says, "will be the war between Religion and Science. It will be a war
to the death, for if Science wins it will do away with the personal God of the Jews, the Christians
and the Muhammedans, the childish doctrine or dogma of future rewards and punishments, and
everything connected with the supernatural. It will be shown that Law reigns supreme. The police
representing Law and Order will be of more importance than the clergy. Even now we might do
away with the latter, everybody becoming his own priest--a great economy. None of us knows
what happens to us after death, all we can do is to hope for the best, and follow the three
great Laws, viz., 1. Instruct your mind. 2. Preserve your health. 3. Moderate your passions
and desires." Thus spake the Founder of the Kama Shastra Society.

On May 15th, Burton told Mr. Kirby all about the Algiers trip. "Plenty to see and do," he says,
"but I was not lucky about my MS. The Scented Garden. No one seemed to know anything about
it. Never advise any one to winter in Algiers. All the settled English are selling their villas.
French mismanagement beats ours holler, and their hate and jealousy of us makes their colonies
penal settlements to us. We stay here [at Trieste] till the weather drives us away--about the
end of June." The letter concludes with kindly enquiries respecting Professor Bendall, [620]
Mr. A. G. Ellis and Dr. Kirby (Mr. Kirby's son).

Chapter XXXVI. "The Priapeia"

Bibliography:

80. Priapeia. 1890.

168. The Priapeia.

The share that Sir Richard Burton had in the translation of the Priapeia has been the subject
of dispute; but we are able to state positively that he was the author of the metrical portion.
Indeed, he made no secret of it among his intimates. For some reason or other, however, he
did not wish to have his name publicly associated with it; so the following passage was inserted
in the preface: "The name of Sir Richard Burton has been inadvertently connected with the present
work. It is, however, only fair to state that under the circumstances he distinctly disclaims
having taken any part in the issue." We have no other ground for the assumption, but this passage
seems to point to a quarrel of some kind. It certainly does not alter the fact that every page
bears evidence of Burton's hand. The preface then goes on to say that "a complete and literal
translation of the works of Catullus, on the same lines and in the same format as the present
volume, is now in preparation." A letter, however, written [621] by Burton to Mr. W. F. Kirby,
sets the matter entirely at rest. "I am at present," he says, "engaged in translating the Priapeia,
Latin verse, which has never appeared in English, French, or German garb; it will have the
merit of novelty."

The Priapeia, in its Latin form Priapeia sine Diversoreun poetarum in Priapum Lusus, is a work
that has long been well known to scholars, and in the 16th and 17th centuries editions were
common. The translation under consideration is entitled "Priapeia, or the Sportive Epigrams
of divers Poets on Priapus: the Latin text now for the first time Englished in verse and prose
(the metrical version by Outidanos) [Good for Nothing], with Introduction, Notes, Explanatory
and Illustrative and Excursus, by Neaniskos [a young man]," whose name, we need hardly say,
is no secret.

The image of Priapus, the god of fruitfulness, was generally a grotesque figure made of rough
wood painted red and carrying a gardener's knife and a cornucopia. Placed in a garden it was
supposed to be a protection against thieves. "In the earliest ages," observes the writer of
the preface, "the worship of the generative energy was of the most simple and artless character...
the homage of man to the Supreme Power, the Author of Life.... Afterwards the cult became depraved.
Religion became a pretext for libertinism." Poets wrote facetious and salacious epigrams and
affixed them to the statues of the god--even the greatest writers lending their pens to the
"sport"--and eventually some nonentity collected these scattered verses and made them into
a book. Everybody knows Catullus's contribution, which begins:

   "A log of oak, some rustic's blade
    Hewed out my shape; grotesquely made
    I guard this spot by night and day,
    Scare every vagrant knave away,
    And save from theft and rapine's hand
    My humble master's cot and land."

The chief complaint to be made against the writers of these verses is that they so rarely strayed
from their subject. The address entitled "A Word to the Reader," is padded with citations from
Burton's Camoens and his Supplemental Nights, including the well-known passage concerning his
estimate of a translator's office, [622] and the whole work bears evidence of extreme haste.
We are assured that it will be "most interesting to anthropologists and humanists."

169. Catullus and the Last Trip, July--September 1890.

Burton, as we have seen, had commenced his translation of Catullus, 18th February 1890, at
Hammam R'irha. He finished the first rough copy of Trieste March 31st, and commenced a second
copy on May 23rd. "He would bring his Latin Catullus," says Lady Burton, "down to the table
d'hote with him, and he used to come and sit by me, but the moment he got a person on the other
side who did not interest him he used to whisper to me 'Talk, that I may do my Catullus.'"
"Sir Richard," says Mr. Leonard Smithers, upon whom had devolved the task of making the prose
translation that was to accompany it, "laid great stress on the necessity of thoroughly annotating
each translation from an erotic and especially pederastic point of view." [623]

On July 1st the Burtons, accompanied as usual by Dr. Baker, Lisa and the magpie trunk, set
out on what proved to be their last trip--a journey through the Tyrol and Switzerland. They
arrived at Zurich just in time for "the great Schiefs-Statte fete, the most important national
function of Switzerland," which was held that year at the neighbouring town of Frauenfeld.
Seven thousand pounds had been set aside for prizes for shooing, and forty thousand persons
were present. Next day there was a grand Consular dinner, to which Burton was invited. Dr.
Baker having expressed regret that he also had not been included, Burton remarked, "Oh, I'll
manage it. Write a letter for me and decline." So a letter was written to the effect that as
Sir Richard Burton made it a rule not to go anywhere without his medical attendant he was obliged
to decline the honour, &c., &c. Presently, as had been expected, came another invitation with
Dr. Baker's name added. Consequently they went, and a very grand dinner it proved--lasting,
by Lady Burton's computation, six hours on end. At St. Mortiz-Kulm, and often after, they met
Canon Wenham of Mortlake, with whom both Sir Richard and Lady Burton had long been on terms
of friendship.

170. At Maloja, July 1890.

At Davos they found John Addington Symonds, and at Maloja Mr. Francis R. S. Wyllie, Mr. and
Mrs. (Sir and Lady) Squire Bancroft, the Rev. Dr. Welldon and Mr. and Mrs. (Sir and Lady) Henry
Stanley. Mrs. Stanley, apparently at Lady Burton's suggestion, took a sheet of paper and wrote
on it, "I promise to put aside all other literature, and, as soon as I return to Trieste, to
write my autobiography." Then doubling the paper she asked for Burton's autograph; and her
request having been complied with, she showed him what he had put his hand to. The rest of
the company signed as witnesses.

For some days, though it was early autumn, the party was snow-bound, and Burton relieved the
wearisomeness of the occasion by relating some of his adventures. Mrs. Bancroft told him many
amusing stories as they walked together in a sheltered covered way.

"He had interested me so greatly," writes Lady Bancroft to me, [624] "that I felt myself in
his debt, and so tried by that means to make it up to him. He laughed heartily at them. Indeed,
I never knew anyone who more enjoyed my stories. One morning early I played a practical joke
upon him. He politely raised his hat and said: 'I will forgive you, dear friend, on one condition.
Play the same trick on Stanley when he comes down and I will watch.' I agreed, and fortunately
brought down my second bird. Both victims forgave me. One day I posed the Burtons, the Stanleys,
Captain Mounteney Jephson (Stanley's friend and companion), with Salah (Stanley's black servant)
for a photograph, which was taken by a young clergyman. I have the delightful result in my
possession. I remember on a splendid morning, when the weather had mended and the sun was dancing
over a neighbouring glacier, my husband saying to the black boy, 'Salah, isn't this a lovely
day--don't you like to see the beautiful sun again?' 'No, sir,' was the answer, 'ice makes
him cold.' Both Stanley and Sir Richard interested me more than I can say; they were wonderful
personalities, and those were, indeed, happy days."

Almost every day during the trip Sir Richard brought the Catullus to the table d'hote, and
on 21st July he had finished his second copy. He then wrote in the margin, "Work incomplete,
but as soon as I receive Mr. Smithers' prose, I will fill in the words I now leave in stars,
in order that we may not use the same expressions, and I will then make a third, fair and complete
copy." [625] During this trip, too, Burton very kindly revised the first half of Dr. Baker's
work The Model Republic. The second half was revised by John Addington Symonds after Burton's
death.

Burton was back again at Trieste on 7th September. He and the magpie trunk were never again
to make a journey together. The melancholy fate of the Catullus, which Burton had put aside
in order that he might finish The Scented Garden, will be recorded in a later chapter.

171. The Golden Ass.

Another work that Burton left unfinished was a translation of The Golden Ass of Apuleius--a
work known to Englishmen chiefly by Bohn's edition, [626] and the renderings of the episode
of Cupid and Psyche by Adlington and Walter Pater (in Marius the Epicurean). The manuscript
of Burton's translation is now in the possession of M. Charles Carrington, the Paris publisher,
who is arranging for its completion by a competent hand. The portions due to Burton will, of
course, be indicated. These consist of "The Author's Intent," about two pages small 4to; nearly
all the story of Cupid and Psyche; and fragments of Books 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 11. [627]

On 30th September Burton wrote again to Mr. W. F. Kirby. "Your collaboration," he says, "has
been most valuable to me. Your knowledge of Folk Lore is not only ample, it is collected and
controlled by the habit of accuracy which Science gives and which I find in all your writings
upon imaginative subjects.... Let me hope that new scenes will not cause you to forget old
subjects, and remind you of the infinite important fact that I am a subscriber to the Kalevala."

Chapter XXXVII. Death of Sir Richard Burton

173. Death. 20th October 1890.

As we have seen, Burton had for some months shown signs of bodily decay; and he now daily grew
weaker. His eyes, though still fierce and penetrating, were sunk into hollow cavities. His
body was emaciated, his hands were thin to transparency, his voice was sometimes inarticulate,
and he could hardly walk without support. Still, there seemed no immediate cause for anxiety,
and, as will be seen from the following letter [628] (15th October 1890) to Mr. David MacRitchie,
he was busy evolving new plans, including a visit to Greece, to be made in the company of Dr.
Schliemann, [629] the archaeologist. "In the spring of next year (Inshallah!) there will be
a total disruption of my Lares and Penates. I shall be 'retired for age,' and leave Trieste
for ever with my mental eye upon a flat in London which can be locked up at a moment's notice
when the renter wants to go abroad. Meanwhile we are off to Athens about mid-November. All
luck to the [Gypsy] Society." On the same day he wrote to Mr. W. F. Kirby: "Excuse post-card.
We have no secrets. Please don't forget to keep me au courant of your movements in re Jan.,
&c. We shall not be in London before early September 1891, I imagine, but then it will be for
good." Elsewhere he says, almost in the words of Ovid, "My earnest wish is somehow to depart
from these regions." He was to depart, very soon, but in a manner little expected.

Sir Richard as we have noticed, would never say "Good-bye." It was always "Au revoir." One
day in this October Miss Letchford went to see him with her little sister. It was tea-time,
but Lady Burton was in another room with a visitor. Never had he appeared so bright or affectionate.
He laughed and joked and teased the child and would not let them go for two hours. At last
he shook hands and said, "Come and see me again very soon. I like you and your sister.---Good-bye,
Daisy." "I was so startled," comments Miss Letchford, "by that 'Good-bye' that a shiver passed
over me. I felt at that moment that I should never see him again." Two days later Mr. Albert
Letchford called on Sir Richard, who seemed fairly well, but he remarked "The good Switzerland
did me ended this evening."

Dr. Baker, though himself just then a great sufferer from neuralgic headache, watched with
anxious solicitude over his patient. On the last day of his life Sir Richard seemed better
than usual, and all the household remarked his excellent spirits. It was Sunday October 29th.
After returning from mass and communion at eight in the morning Lady Burton found him engaged
upon the last page of the twentieth chapter of The Scented Garden. [630] The work was therefore
almost half done. She kissed him, and he said, "To-morrow I shall have finished this, and then
I will begin our biography." She commented "What happiness that will be!" Her mind, however,
was not quite at ease that morning, for a bird had pecked for the third time at a window that
was never opened, and Sir Richard remarked "This is a sign of death."

The day was fine, and after breakfast Burton took his usual two hours' walk with Dr. Baker.
On the way out through the garden he noticed a robin drowning in the basin of a fountain. [631]
At his request Dr. Baker rescued it, and Burton, opening his coat and vest--for he never wore
a waistcoat--warmed the bird at his breast, and then carried it to the house to be cared for
by the porter. The incident carries us back to those old days at Tours, when, as a boy, he
often laid himself out to revive unfortunate birds and small beasts. In the afternoon he wrote
some letters and discussed gaily the proposed visit to Greece. They dined at half-past seven,
and talked and laughed as usual, though Burton seemed tired. As usual, too, he shocked his
wife by jesting about scapularies and other sacred things, but the conversation ran chiefly
on General Booth's scheme for relieving the Submerged Tenth; and Burton, who entered into the
subject with zest, observed: "When you and I get to England and are quite free we will give
our spare time to that." [632]

In the course of the day Mrs. Victoria Maylor came in with the manuscript of The Scented Garden
and the copy of it which she had made for the printers, [633] and from this we may deduce that
Sir Richard intended to go to press at once with the first twenty chapters of the work. He
may have intended to publish the twenty-first chapter later as a second volume. At half-past
nine he retired to his bedroom. Lady Burton then repeated "the night prayers to him," and while
she was speaking "a dog," to use her own words, "began that dreadful howl which the superstitious
regard as the harbinger of death."

After prayers, Burton asked for "chou-chou;" she game him a paper-covered copy in two volumes
of the Martyrdom of Madeline [634] by Robert Buchanan, and he lay in bed reading it. At midnight
he complained of pain in his foot, but said he believed it was only a return of the gout--the
"healthy gout," which troubled him about every three months.

"Let me call Dr. Baker," said Lady Burton.

"No," replied Sir Richard, "don't disturb him poor fellow, he has been in frightful pain with
his head; and has at last got a little sleep."

At four, however, Lady Burton paid no heed to her husband's remonstrances, but called up Dr.
Baker, who, however, saw no cause for alarm, and after administering some medicine he returned
to bed. Half an hour later Burton complained that there was no air, and Lady Burton, again
thoroughly alarmed, rose to call in Dr. Baker once more.

Although Burton was then dying, he said, "Poor chap, don't disturb him."

But Lady Burton instantly summoned Dr. Baker, who on entering pronounced the situation grave.
Lady Burton at once roused the servants and sent in all directions for a priest; while, assisted
by Dr. Baker and Lisa, she "tried every remedy and restorative," but in vain.

"Oh, Puss," cried Burton, "chloroform--ether--quick!"

"My darling," replied Lady Burton in anguish. "Dr. Baker says it would kill you. He is doing
everything possible."

His breathing then became laboured, and after a brief struggle for air he cried, "I am dying,
I am dead." Lady Burton held him in her arms, but he got heavier, and presently became insensible.
Dr Baker applied an electric battery to the heart, and Lady Burton kneeling at the bedside,
and holding her husband's hand, prayed her "heart out to God to keep his soul there (though
he might be dead in appearance) till the priest arrived." But it was in vain. The priest, a
Slavonian, named Pietro Martelani, came in about half-past six. We may regret what followed,
but no one would judge harshly the actions of an agonised woman. Pity for human suffering must
drown all other feelings. The priest looked at the dead but warm body and asked whether there
was still any life. That the heart and pulsed had ceased to beat, Lady Burton herself afterwards
admitted to her relations, but deceiving herself with the belief that life still continued
in the brain, she cried: "He is alive, but I beseech you, lose not a moment, for the soul is
passing away."

"If," said the Priest, "he is a Protestant, he cannot receive the Holy Sacrament in this way."

Lady Burton having declared that her husband "had abjured the heresy and belonged to the Catholic
Church," the priest at once administered "the last comforts."

It was certainly a kind of consolation to the poor lady to feel that her husband had not departed
unhouselled; but it is equally evident that her mind had given way, for the scenes that presently
followed can be explained only on this assumption. [635]

Dr. Baker at once sent a brief note to Mr. Letchford. Singularly enough the night before--that
is the terrible Sunday night--Miss Daisy Letchford experienced "a strange instance of telepathy."
"My brother," she says, "had gone out, and I waited alone for him. Suddenly I fancied I heard
footsteps in the passage and stopping at the door of the room where I was reading. I felt drops
of cold sweat on my forehead. I was afraid, yet I knew that no one was about at that time of
the night. The door opened slowly, and I felt the impression of some one looking at me. I dared
not raise my eyes. The footsteps seemed to approach. In a fit of fear I looked up and saw Sir
Richard standing before me. He started, waved his hand and disappeared. Early in the morning
came a ring at the bell. I jumped out of bed and burst into tears as I said, 'This is to tell
us that Sir Richard is dead.' At that moment the maid brought in the letter for my brother
from Dr. Baker. I ran with it into his room. 'Albert, Albert,' I cried, 'Sir Richard is dead.'
He opened the letter. It was only too true."

The same morning, Mr. P. P. Cautley, the Vice Consul, was called up to the house.

The undertaker, who was already there, asked in Mr. Cautley's presence to what religion Sir
Richard belonged.

Turning to Mr. Cautley, Lady Burton asked: "What religion shall I say?"

"Tell him Sir Richard's true religion," replied Mr. Cautley. [636]

She then said, "Catholic."

"But!" interjected Mr. Cautley.

"YES," followed Lady Burton, "he was a Catholic."

Lady Burton still nursed the hope that Sir Richard was not quite dead. There was life in the
brain, she persisted in saying. Would he revive? "For forty-eight hours," she tells us, "she
knelt watching him." She could not shed a tear. Then she "had the ulnar nerve opened and strong
electricity applied to make sure of his death."

Some months after, when her mind had regained its equilibrium, she observed to Major St. George
Burton. [637] "To a Protestant, Dick's reception into the Holy Church must seem meaningless
and void. He was dead before extreme unction was administered; and my sole idea was to satisfy
myself that he and I would be buried according to the Catholic rites and lie together above
ground in the Catholic cemetery. He was not strictly received, for he was dead, and the formula
Si es capax, &c., saved the priest's face and satisfied the church." When mortification began
to set in, the body, which was found to be covered with scars, the witnesses of a hundred fights,
was embalmed, laid out in uniform, and surrounded with candles and wreaths. "He looked so sweet,"
says Lady Burton, "such an adorable dignity, like a sleep." [638] Behind the bed still hung
the great map of Africa. On his breast Lady Burton had placed a crucifix, and he still wore
the steel chain and the "Blessed Virgin Medal," which she had given him just before the Tanganyika
journey.

Priests, pious persons, and children from the orphanage of St. Joseph, in which Lady Burton
had taken so much interest, watched and prayed, recited the office for the dead, and sang hymns.

There were three distinct funerals at Trieste, and there was to be another nine months onward
in England. All that can be said is that Lady Burton seemed to draw comfort from pageantry
and ceremonial that to most mourners would have been only a long-drawn agony.

The procession was a royal one. The coffin was covered with the Union Jack, and behind it were
borne on a cushion Burton's order and medals. Then followed a carriage with a pyramid of wreaths,
and lastly, the children of St. Joseph's orphanage, a regiment of infantry and the governor
and officials of Trieste.

Every flag in the town was half-mast high, multitudes thronged the streets, and every window
and balcony was crowded. Every head was uncovered. The procession wound its way from the Palazzo
Gosleth down the declivity into the city under a bright sun pouring down its full beams, and
so onward through the serried masses of spectators to the cemetery. Writing to Lady Stisted,
[639] Lady Burton says, "I did not have him buried, but had a private room in the cemetery
[a "chapelle ardente"] consecrated (with windows and doors on the ground floor) above ground
where I can go and sit with him every day. He had three church services performed over him,
and 1,100 masses said for the repose of his soul." "For the man," commented the profane, "who,
in his own words, 'protested against the whole business,' perhaps 1,100 masses would not have
been enough." In an oration delivered in the Diet of Trieste, Dr. Cambon called him an intrepid
explorer, a gallant soldier, an honour to the town of Trieste." The whole press of the world
rang with his praises. The noble tribute paid to his memory by Algernon C. Swinburne has often
been quoted:

   "While England sees not her old praise dim,
    While still her stars through the world's night swim,
      A fame outshining her Raleigh's fame,
    A light that lightens her loud sea's rim:
    Shall shine and sound as her sons proclaim
    The pride that kindles at Burton's name,
      And joy shall exalt their pride to be
    The same in birth if in soul the same." [640]

"Our affairs," Lady Burton tells Lady Stisted, in a heartrending letter, [641] "are so numerous
and we belonged to so many things that I have not strength enough to get them carried out before
eight weeks, and I could not bear to arrive in Xmas holidays, but immediately after they are
over, early January, I shall arrive, if I live, and pass through Folkestone on my way to Mortlake
with the dear remains to make a tomb there for us two; and you must let me know whether you
wish to see me or not.

"I wish to go into a convent for a spiritual retreat for fifteen days, and after that I should
like to live very quietly in a retired way in London till God show me what I am to do or, as
I hope, will take me also; and this my belief that I shall go in a few months is my only consolation.
As to me, I do not know how anyone can suffer so much and live. While all around me had to
go to bed ill, I have had a supernatural strength of soul and body, and have never lost my
head for one moment, but I cannot cry a tear. My throat is closed, and I sometime cannot swallow.
My heart swelled to bursting. It must go snap soon, I think. I have not forgotten you, and
what it means to you who loved each other so much. I shall save many little treasures for you.
His and your father's watch, &c. There are hundreds of telegrams and letters and cards by every
post from all parts of the world, and the newspapers are full. The whole civilized world ringing
with his praise, and appreciative of his merits--every one deeming it an honour to have known
him. Now it will be felt what we have lost. I shall pass the remainder of my short time in
writing his life and you must help me. Best love to dearest Georgy. I will write to her. Your
affectionate and desolate Isabel."

To Mr. Arbuthnot, Lady Burton also wrote a very long and pitiful letter. [642] As it records
in other words much that has already been mentioned we will quote only a few sentences.

"Dear Mr. Arbuthnot, "Your sympathy and that of Mrs. Arbuthnot is very precious to me and I
answer you both in one. I cannot answer general letters, but you were his best friend. I should
like to tell you all if I saw you but I have no heart to write it.... I am arranging all his
affairs and when finished I bring him to England.... I shall be a little slow coming because
I have so much to do with his books and MSS., and secondly because the rent is paid to the
24th February and I am too poor to pay two places. Here I cannot separate from his body, and
there it will be in the earth. I am so thoroughly stunned that I feel nothing outside, but
my heart is crucified. I have lost all in him. You will want to know my plans. When my work
is done, say 1st of March, I will go into a long retreat in a convent and will offer myself
to a Sister of Charity. I do not think I shall be accepted for my age and infirmities, but
will try.... The world is for me a dead letter, and can no more touch me. No more joy--no further
sorrow can affect me. Dr. Baker is so good to me, and is undertaking my affairs himself as
I really cannot care about them now. Love to both. God bless you both for unvarying friendship
and kindness. Your affectionate and desolate friend, Isabel Burton.

"I have saved his gold watch-chain as a memorial for you." [643] No man could have had a fuller
life. Of all travellers he was surely the most enthusiastic. What had he not seen? The plains
of the Indus, the slopes of the Blue Mountains, the classic cities of Italy, the mephitic swamps
of Eastern Africa, the Nilotic cataracts, Brazil, Abeokuta, Iceland, El Dorado--all knew well--him,
his star-sapphire, and his congested church service: lands fertile, barren, savage, civilized,
utilitarian, dithyrambic. He had worshipped at Mecca and at Salt Lake City. He had looked into
the face of Memnon, and upon the rocks of Midian, 'graven with an iron pen,' upon the head
waters of the Congo, and the foliate columns of Palmyra; he had traversed the whole length
of the Sao Francisco, crossed the Mississippi and the Ganges. Then, too, had not the Power
of the Hills been upon him! With what eminence indeed was he not familiar, whether Alp, Cameroon
or Himalaya! Nor did he despise the features of his native land. If he had climbed the easy
Andes, he had also conquered, and looked down from the giddy heights of Hampstead. Because
he had grubbed in the Italian Pompeii he did not, on that account, despise the British Uriconium.
[644] He ranks with the world's most intrepid explorers--with Columbus, Cabot, Marco Polo,
Da Gama and Stanley. Like another famous traveller, he had been "in perils of waters, in perils
of robbers, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in weariness and painfullness."
In the words of his beloved Camoens, he had done

   "Deeds that deserve, like gods, a deathless name." [645]

He had lived almost his three score and ten, but, says one of his friends, "in the vigour,
the vehemence indeed with which he vented his indignation over any meanness or wrong, or littleness,
he was to the last as youthful as when he visited Mecca and Harar. If, however, the work he
did, the hardships he endured, and the amazing amount of learning which he acquired and gave
forth to the world are to be taken as any measure of his life, he lived double the term of
most ordinary men." Like Ovid, for the parallelism preserved itself to the end, he died in
the land of his exile.

"It has been said of him that he was the greatest Oriental scholar England ever had and neglected."
He was a mighty writer of books--some fifty works, to say nothing of multitudinous articles
in the journals of the learned societies, having proceeded from his pen. If it be conceded
that he was wanting in the literary faculty and that no one of his books is entirely satisfactory,
it should be borne in mind that he added enormously to the sum of human knowledge. We go to
him, not for style, but for facts. Again, if his books are not works of art, they contain,
nevertheless, many passages that cling to the memory. Take him as linguist, traveller and anthropologist,
he was certainly one of the greatest men that modern England has produced.

Chapter XXXVIII. 20th October 1890-December 1890, The Fate of "The Scented Garden"

173. The Fate of The Scented Garden.

Burton wad dead. All that was mortal of him lay cold and motionless in the chapelle ardente.
But his spirit? The spirits of the departed, can they revive us? The Roman poet Propertius answers:

   "Yes; there are ghosts: death ends not all, I ween."

and Lady Burton was just as thoroughly imbued with that belief. Hereby hangs a curious story,
now to be told as regards its essentials for the first time; and we may add that Lady Burton
particularly wished these essentials to be made public after her decease. [646]

For sixteen days after her husband's death Lady Burton shut herself up in the house in order
to examine and classify his manuscripts, pack up books, &c., ready for the journey to England,
and "carry out his instructions." To the goodness--the sweetness--of her character we have
several times paid tributes. We have spoken of the devotion to her husband which surrounds
her with a lambent glory; but we have also shown that she was indiscreet, illiterate, [647]
superstitious and impulsive; and that she was possessed of a self-assurance that can only be
described as colossal. We have also shown that her mind was unhinged by her sad trouble. Such,
then, was the woman and such the condition of the woman upon whom devolved the duty of considering
the manuscripts of one of the most original men of the 19th century. Which of them were valuable
and which mere lumber she was quite incapable of judging. Her right course would have been
to call in some competent person; but she thought she was competent.

At Lady Burton's request, Mr. Albert Letchford and Miss Letchford had come to stay with her
"for the remembrance of the love her husband bore them." It fell to Miss Letchford to sort
Sir Richard's clothes and to remove the various trifles from his pockets. She found, among
other things, the little canvas bags containing horse-chestnuts, which, as we have already
noticed, he used "to carry about with him against the Evil Eye--as a charm to keep him from
sickness."

Lady Burton now commenced with the manuscripts--and let it be conceded, with the very best
intentions. She would have nobody in the room but Miss Letchford. "I helped Lady Burton to
sort his books, papers, and manuscripts," says Miss Letchford. "She thought me too young and
innocent to understand anything. She did not suspect that often when she was not near I looked
through and read many of those MSS. which I bitterly repent not having taken, for in that case
the world would not have been deprived of many beautiful and valuable writings. I remember
a poem of his written in the style of 'The House that Jack built,' the biting sarcasm of which,
the ironical finesse--is beyond anything I have ever read. Many great people still living found
their way into these verses. I begged Lady Burton to keep it, but her peasant confessor said
'Destroy it,' so it was burnt along with a hundred other beautiful things." She destroyed valuable
papers, [648] she carefully preserved and docketed as priceless treasures mere waste paper. [649]

There now remained only the manuscript of The Scented Garden and a few other papers. By this
time Lady Burton had discovered that Miss Letchford was "not so ignorant as she thought," and
when the latter begged her not to destroy The Scented Garden she promised that it should be
saved; and no doubt, she really intended to save it. Miss Letchford having gone out for the
evening, Lady Burton returned again to her task. Her mind was still uneasy about The Scented
Garden, and she took out the manuscript to examine it. Of the character of the work she had
some idea, though her husband had not allowed her to read it. Fifteen hundred persons had promised
subscriptions; and she had also received an offer of six thousand guineas for it from a publisher.
[650] She took out the manuscript and laid it on the floor, "two large volumes worth." [651]
When she opened it she was perfectly bewildered and horrified. The text alone would have staggered
her, but, as we have seen, Burton had trebled the size of the book with notes of a certain
character. Calming herself, she reflected that the book was written only for scholars and mainly
for Oriental students, and that her husband "never wrote a thing from the impure point of view.
He dissected a passion from every point of view, as a doctor may dissect a body, showing its
source, its origin, its evil, and its good." [652]

Then she looked up, and there, before her, stood her husband just as he had stood in the flesh.
He pointed to the manuscript and said "Burn it!" Then he disappeared.

As she had for years been a believer in spirits, the apparition did not surprise her, and yet
she was tremendously excited. "Burn it!" she echoed, "the valuable manuscript? At which he
laboured for so many weary hours? Yet, doubtless, it would be wrong to preserve it. Sin is
the only rolling stone that gathers moss; what a gentleman, a scholar, a man of the world may
write, when living, he would see very differently as a poor soul standing naked before its
God, with its good or evil deeds alone to answer for, and their consequences visible to it
from the first moment, rolling on to the end of time. Oh, he would cry, for a friend on earth
to stop and check them! What would he care for the applause of fifteen hundred men now--for
the whole world's praise, and God offended? And yet the book is for students only. Six thousand
guineas, too, is a large sum, and I have great need of it."

At this moment the apparition again stood before her, and in a sterner and more authoritative
voice said: "Burn it!" and then again disappeared. In her excitement she scarcely knew where
she was or what she did. Still she hesitated. Then she soliloquised: "It is his will, and what
he wishes shall be done. He loved me and worked for me. How am I going to reward him? In order
that my wretched body may be fed and warmed for a few miserable years, shall I let his soul
be left out in cold and darkness till the end of time--till all the sins which may be committed
on reading those writings have been expiated, or passed away, perhaps, for ever? Nafzawi, who
was a pagan, begged pardon of God and prayed not to be cast into hell fire for having written
it, and implored his readers to pray for him to Allah that he would have mercy on him." [653]

Still she hesitated. "It was his magnum opus," she went on, "his last work that he was so proud
of, that was to have been finished [654] on the awful morrow that never came. If I burn it
the recollection will haunt me to my dying day," and again she turned over the leaves.

Then for the third time Sir Richard stood before her. Again he sternly bade her burn the manuscript,
and, having added threatenings to his command, he again disappeared.

By this time her excitement had passed away, and a holy joy irradiated her soul. She took up
the manuscript, and then sorrowfully, reverently, and in fear and trembling, she burnt it sheet
after sheet, until the whole was consumed. As each leaf was licked up by the fire, it seemed
to her that "a fresh ray of light and peace" transfused the soul of her beloved husband.

That such were the facts and that the appearance of her husband was not mere hallucination,
Lady Burton stiffly maintained until her dying day. She told Mr. T. Douglas Murray [655] that
she dared not mention the appearances of her husband in her letter to The Morning Post [656]
or to her relatives for fear of ridicule. Yet in the Life of her husband--almost the closing
words--she does give a hint to those who could understand. She says: "Do not be so hard and
prosaic as to suppose that our dead cannot, in rare instances, come back and tell us how it
is with them." [657]

That evening, when Miss Letchford, after her return, entered Sir Richard's room, she saw some
papers still smouldering in the grate. They were all that remained of The Scented Garden. On
noticing Miss Letchford's reproachful look, Lady Burton said, "I wished his name to live for
ever unsullied and without a stain."

174. Discrepancies in Lady Burton's Story.

Some have regarded this action of Lady Burton's--the destruction of The Scented Garden manuscript--as
"one of rare self-sacrifice prompted by the highest religious motives and the tenderest love
for one whom she looked to meet again in heaven, to which her burnt offering and fervent prayers
might make his entrance sure." If the burning of the MS. of The Scented Garden had been an
isolated action, we might have cheerfully endorsed the opinion just quoted, but it was only
one holocaust of a series. That Lady Burton had the best of motives we have already admitted;
but it is also very evident that she gave the matter inadequate consideration. The discrepancies
in her account of the manuscript prove that at most she could have turned over only three or
four pages--or half-a-dozen at the outside. [658]

Let us notice these discrepancies:

(1) In her letter to the Morning Post (19th June 1891) she says of The Scented Garden: "It
was his magnum opus, his last work that he was so proud of." Yet in the Life (ii., 243) she
calls it the only book he ever wrote that was not valuable to the world and in p. 445 of the
same work she alludes to it "as a few chapters which were of no particular value to the world."
So it was at once the most valuable book he ever wrote and also of no value whatever. (2) In
Volume ii. of the Life (p. 441) she says the only value in the book at all consisted in his
annotations, and there was no poetry. This remark proves more than anything else how very superficial
must have been her examination of the manuscript, for even the garbled edition of 1886 contains
nearly 400 lines of verse, while that of 1904 probably contains over a thousand. [659] For
example, there are twenty-three lines of the poet Abu Nowas's. (3) On page 444 of the Life
she says: "It was all translation except the annotations on the Arabic work"--which gives the
impression that the translation was the great feature, and that the notes were of secondary
importance; but on p. 441 she says, "The only value in the book at all consisted in the annotations."
As a matter of fact, the annotations amounted to three-quarters of the whole. [See Chapter
xxxiv.] (4) In the Life, page 410 (Vol. ii.), she says the work was finished all but one page;
and on page 444 that only 20 chapters were done. Yet she much have known that the whole work
consisted of 21 chapters, and that the 21st chapter was as large as the other twenty put together,
for her husband was always talking about and trying to obtain an Arabic manuscript of this
chapter (See chapter 35).

All this, of course, proved indubitably that Lady Burton actually knew next to nothing about
the whole matter. Perhaps it will be asked, What has been lost by this action of Lady Burton's?
After carefully weighing the pros and cons we have come to the conclusion that the loss could
not possibly have been a serious one. That Burton placed a very high value on his work, that
he considered it his masterpiece, is incontrovertible, but he had formed in earlier days just
as high an opinion of his Camoens and his Kasidah; therefore what he himself said about it
has not necessarily any great weight. We do not think the loss serious for four reasons: First,
because the original work, whatever its claims on the anthropologist, has little, if any, literary
merit; [660] secondly, because Sir Richard Burton's "old version" [661] of The Scented Garden
is public property, and has been reprinted at least three times; thirdly, because only half
was done; and fourthly, because the whole of the work has since been translated by a writer
who, whatever his qualifications or disqualifications, has had access to manuscripts that were
inaccessible to Sir Richard Burton. Practically then, for, as we have already shown, Sir Richard
did not particularly shine as a translator, nothing has been lost except his notes. These notes
seem to have been equivalent to about 600 pages of an ordinary crown octavo book printed in
long primer. Two-thirds of this matter was probably of such a character that its loss cannot
be deplored. The remainder seems to have been really valuable and to have thrown light on Arab
life and manners. Although the translation was destroyed in October 1890, the public were not
informed of the occurrence until June 1891--nine months after.

Copies of the Kama Shastra edition of The Scented Garden issued in 1886 [662] are not scarce.
The edition of 1904, to which we have several times referred, is founded chiefly on the Arabic
Manuscript in the Library at Algiers, which a few years ago was collated by Professor Max Seligsohn
with the texts referred to by Burton as existing in the Libraries of Paris, Gotha and Copenhagen.

175. The Fate of the Catullus.

The fate of the Catullus was even more tragic than that of The Scented Garden. This work, like
The Scented Garden, was left unfinished. Burton had covered his Latin copy and his manuscript
with pencil notes looking like cobwebs, and on one page was written "Never show half finished
work to women or fools." The treatment meted to his manuscript would, if Burton had been a
poet of the first order, have drawn tears from a milestone. But it must be borne in mind that
Lady Burton did consider him a poet of the first order, for she ranked his Camoens and his
Kasidah with the work of Shakespere. And this is how she treated a work which she considered
a world-masterpiece. First she skimmed it over, then she expurgated it, and finally she either
typed it herself, [663] or, what is more likely, put it into the hands of a typist who must
have been extremely illiterate or abominably careless. Then, without even troubling to correct
the copy, she sent the manuscript of the Catullus up the chimney after that of The Scented
Garden. The typewritten copy was forwarded to the unhappy and puzzled Mr. Leonard C. Smithers,
with the request, which was amusing enough, that he would "edit it" and bring it out. Just
as a child who has been jumping on the animals of a Noah's Ark brings them to his father to
be mended.

"To me," observes Mr. Smithers piteously, "has fallen the task of editing Sir Richard's share
in this volume from a type-written copy literally swarming with copyist's errors. [664] Lady
Burton has without any reason constantly refused me even a glance at his MS." The book, such
as it was, appeared in 1894. If Burton had not been embalmed he would have turned in his coffin.
We may or may not pardon Lady Burton for destroying the MS. of The Scented Garden, but it is
impossible not to pass upon her at any rate a mild censure for having treated in that way a
translation of Catullus after it had been expurgated to her own taste. Whether Burton would
have considerably improved the poetry of his version we cannot say; but as it stands no single
poem is superior to the work of his predecessors. One need only compare his rendering of the
lines "To the Peninsula of Sirmio" with the Hon. George Lamb's [665]

   "Sirmio of all the shores the gem,"

or Leigh Hunt's

   "O, best of all the scattered spots that lie,"

to see what a fall was there, and yet neither Lamb's version nor Hunt's is satisfactory. His
"Atys" pales before Cranstoun's, and his "Epithalamium," is almost unreadable; while the lines
"On the death of Lesbia's Sparrow" naturally compel comparison with Byron's version. Nor will
readers of the translations by Sir Theodore Martin or Robinson Ellis gain anything by turning
to Burton.

On the other hand, we can well believe that his work, considered as a commentary on Catullus--for
nearly all his loose notes have perished--would have been as valuable to us as, viewed in the
same light, is his edition of Camoens. He had explored all the Catullus country. Verona, the
poet's birthplace, "Sweet Sirmio," his home on the long narrow peninsula that cleaves Garda's
"limpid lake," Brescia, "below the Cycnaean peak," [666] the "dimpling waters" of heavenly
Como, and the estate of Caecilius; [667] all were familiar to him. He knew every spot visited
by the poet in his famous voyage in the open pinnance [668] from Bithynia "through the angry
Euxine," among the Cyclades, by "purple Zante," up the Adriatic, and thence by river and canal
to 'Home, sweet home.' He was deep in every department of Catullian lore. He had taken enormous
pains; he had given his nights and days to the work. The notes at the end of the printed volume
are a mere drop compared with the ocean he left. However, the manuscript with its pencilled
cobwebs, the voluminous "loose notes"--all--good and bad--went up the chimney.

Personally we have never expended a sigh over the loss of The Scented Garden, and we should
not have minded one straw if Lady Burton had burnt also her typewritten travesty of the Catullus;
but her destruction of Sir Richard's private journals and diaries was a deed that one finds
it very hard to forgive. Just as Sir Richard's conversation was better than his books, so,
we are told, his diaries were better than his conversation. Says Mr. W. H. Wilkins, [669] referring
to Sir Richard, "He kept his diaries and journals, not as many keep them, with all the ugly
things left out, but faithfully and fully," and again, "the private journals and diaries which
were full of the secret thoughts and apologia of this rare genius have been committed to the
flames." Dr. Baker, who was favoured with the sight of portions of these diaries, tells me
that Sir Richard used to put in them not only an epitome of every important letter written
or received by him, and of every conversation he had with persons of consequence; but also
any remarks that struck him, uttered by no matter whom. [670]

176. Lisa Departs, November 1890.

Like Chico, like Khamoor, Lisa, the Baroness lady-companion, had through injudicious treatment
grown well-nigh unendurable. While Burton was alive she still had some dim notion of her place,
but after his death she broke the traces, and Lady Burton had, with deep regret, to part with
her. They separated very good friends, however, for Lady Burton was generosity itself. By this
time she had been pretty well cured of lady's maid and servant pets, at any rate we hear of
no other.

Lady Burton was also distressed by an attack make in The Times upon the memory of her husband
by Colonel Grant, who declared that Burton had treated both Speke and their native followers
with inhumanity. Lady Burton replied with asperity--giving the facts much as we have given
them in Chapter ix. Grant died 10th February 1892.

Chapter XXXIX. January 1891 to July 1891, Lady Burton in England

Bibliography (Posthumous works):

81. Morocco and the Moors, by Henry Leared, edited by Burton. 1891. 82. Il Pentamerone, published
1893. 83. The Kasidah (100 copies only). 1894. [Note.--In 1900 an edition of 250 copies appeared].

177. Lady Burton in England.

By the new year Lady Burton had completed all her arrangements. The swarms of servants and
parasites which her good nature had attracted to her had been paid, or thrown, off; and the
books and the mutilated manuscripts packed up. Every day she had visited her "beloved in the
chapelle ardente." "I never rested," she says, "and it was a life of torture. I used to wake
at four, the hour he was taken ill, and go through all the horrors of his three hours' illness
until seven."

On January 20th, Burton's remains were taken to England by the steamer "Palmyra." Lady Burton
then walked round and round to every room, recalling all her life in that happy home and all
the painful events that had so recently taken place. She gazed pensively and sadly at the beautiful
views from the windows and went "into every nook and cranny of the garden." The very walls
seemed to mourn with her.

On arriving in England on February 9th her first concern was to call on Lady Stisted and Miss
Stisted, in order to "acquaint them with the circumstances of her husband's death and her intentions."
The meeting was a painful one both to them and to her. They plainly expressed their disapproval
of the scenes that had been enacted in the death chamber and at the funerals at Trieste; and
they declared that as Protestants they could not countenance any additional ceremonial of a
like nature. Lady Burton next visited Ilkeston, in Derbyshire, where she had implored "Our
Lady of Dale" to bring about her husband's conversion. Entering the Catholic Church there,
she knelt before the altar and cried "Here I asked! Here I obtained! Our Lady of Dale, deliver
his soul from Purgatory!" [671]

Burton's remains arrived--by "long sea"--in England on February 12th (1891) and were placed
temporarily in the crypt of the Catholic Church at Mortlake; and Lady Burton then devoted the
whole of her time to arranging for a public funeral in England.

To Mrs. E. J. Burton she wrote (23rd March 1891): "You must have thought me so ungrateful for
not answering your sweet letter of five months ago, but, indeed, I have felt it deeply. Losing
the man who had been my earthly God for thirty-five years, was like a blow on the head, and
for a long time I was completely stunned." [672]

178. The Funeral at Mortlake, 15th June 1891.

The sum of £700 having been raised by Burton's admirers, a mausoleum, made of dark Forest of
Dean stone and white Carrara marble, and shaped like an Arab tent, was erected in the Catholic
Cemetery at Mortlake. Over the door is an open book inscribed with the names of Sir Richard
and Lady Burton, and below the book runs a ribbon with the words "This monument is erected
to his memory by his loving countrymen." Among those present at the funeral were Major St.
George Burton, Dr. E. J. Burton, Mr. Mostyn Pryce, Lord Arundell, Mr. Gerald Arundell, Lord
Gerard, Lord Northbrook, Mr. Van Zeller, Dr. Baker, Dr. Leslie, Mr. F. F. Arbuthnot, Commander
Cameron, and Mr. Justin Huntley McCarthy; and Canon Wenham officiated.

The coffin was laid in the middle of the church upon trestles, which were covered by "a cramoisie
velvet pall." Tall silver candlesticks with wax candles surrounded it. An unseen choir sang
solemn chants. Lady Burton, "a pathetic picture of prayerful sorrow," occupied a prie-dieu
at the coffin's side. When the procession filed out priests perfumed the coffin with incense
and sprinkled it with holy water, acolytes bore aloft their flambeaux, and the choir, now seen
to be robed in black, sang epicedial hymns. The service had all been conducted in Latin, but
at this point Canon Wenham, turning to the coffin, said in English, "with a smile and a voice
full of emotion, [673] 'Enter now into Paradise.'"

Lady Burton then laid on the coffin a bunch of forget-me-nots, and said, "Here lies the best
husband that ever lived, the best son, the best brother, and the truest staunchest friend."

The bystanders were moved according to their temperaments and religious views, but all were
touched by the tempestuousness of Lady Burton's grief. She seemed as "one of the Eumenides."
To some the pomp and scenic effects were gratifying. Others were affected by the reflection
that the great traveller, after roaming through almost every known land, had at last been laid
in a quiet nook in an English graveyard. Others who were familiar with Burton's religious views
considered "the whole ceremony an impertinence." All, however, whatever their opinions, were
united in the desire to honour the great Englishman whose motto had been "Honour not Honours."
So at last, after four funerals, Sir Richard Burton was left in peace.

The interior of the tomb remains much as it did on that day. Facing the entrance is an altar
with pictures, vases and the other customary appurtenances. Sir Richard's sarcophagus lies
to one's left, and on the right has since been placed the coffin of Lady Burton, while over
all hang ropes of camel bells, which when struck give out the old metallic sound that Sir Richard
heard so often in the desert.

The ceremony over, Lady Burton went to spend ten days in the convent of the canonesses of the
Holy Sepulchre at Chelmsford--"my convent," as she called it, because she was educated there.
She then hired longing at No. 5, Baker Street, London, until a house--No. 67--in the same street
could be made ready for her. By the kindness of Queen Victoria she was allowed a pension of
£150 a year.

179. The Scented Garden Storm, June 1891.

In the meantime, the fifteen hundred subscribers to The Scented Garden kept writing to Lady
Burton to ask when the promised work was to be in their hands. As she could not possibly reply
to so many persons, and as the nature of some of the letters cast her into a state of wild
perturbation, there seemed only one course open to her--namely, to write to the press. So she
sent to The Morning Post the well-known letter which appeared 19th June, 1891, mentioning some
of her reasons for destroying the manuscript, the principal being her belief that out of fifteen
hundred men, fifteen would probably read it in the spirit of science in which it was written,
the other fourteen hundred and eighty-five would read it "for filth's sake." The principal
cause, the apparition of her husband, she did not mention. [674]

The letter in The Morning Post had no sooner appeared than a cry arose against her from one
end of the country to the other. The Press castigated her, private persons expressed their
indignation by post. Burton's family in particular bitterly resented what they considered a
"foolish, mad act, insulting alike to the dead and the living."

Lady Burton then wrote a second letter, which she sent to The Echo. She said that if Burton
had lived "he would have been perfectly justified in carrying out his work. He would have been
surrounded by friends to whom he could have explained any objections or controversies, and
would have done everything to guard against the incalculable harm of his purchasers lending
it to their women friends and to their boyish acquaintances, which I could not guarantee....
My husband did no wrong, he had a high purpose [675] and he thought no evil of printing it,
and could one have secured the one per cent. of individuals to whom it would have been merely
a study, it would probably have done no harm." Later she made some further defence in the New
Review.

The opinions of Burton's friends and intimate acquaintances on the matter were as follows:
Mr. Payne and Mr. Watts-Dunton [676] thought that Lady Burton did quite rightly, considering
the circumstances, in destroying the work. Mr. W.F. Kirby thought that, though from her own
point of view she was justified in so doing, she would have done better to present it to the
College of Surgeons, where it would have been quite harmless and might have been consulted
by bona-fide students.

Mr. Arbuthnot considered that in fulfilment of Burton's promise it should have been given to
him. He would, of course, have published it as a volume of the Kama Shastra Society, taking
the usual precautions to prevent it from falling into unsuitable hands.

Chapter XL. July 1891-December 1893, O Tomb, O Tomb!

Bibliography:

84. Life of Sir Richard Burton, 2 vols. 1893. 85. Translation of Catullus. 1894. 86. The Library
Edition of The Arabian Nights, 12 vols. 1894.

180. A Letter to Miss Stisted.

In July 1891 there appeared in Temple Bar an article by Miss Stisted, entitled "Reminiscences
of Sir Richard Burton," and upon reading it, Lady Burton, who headed her letter "5 or 67 Baker
Street, Portman Square," wrote as follows:

"Dearest Georgy, [677] I read last night your clever and well-written article on my darling,
and send you a little notice out of The Daily News. I congratulate you on it and on being able
to write again. I was very sorry you and Maria [Lady Stisted] would not come to the funeral.
When you come in August I shall give you a photo of the monument and a list of the people who
were invited.... There were 850 asked, 400 influenza refusals and over 500 were present, counted
by the police at the gates.... When you come I shall be I trust at No. 67. [678] Your loving
aunt Zoo."

But the comic always treads on the heels of the pathetic for it is not probable that Miss Stisted
valued very much the photograph of what in her "True Life," she thought fit to call "an eccentric
tomb" in a "shabby sectarian cemetery." [679] The removal into 67, Baker Street, took place
in September 1891, and a little later Lady Burton hired a cottage at Wople End, near Mortlake,
where she spent her summer months. During the last decade of her husband's life she had become,
to use her own words, coarse and rather unwieldy, but her sorrow had the effect of restoring
to her some of the graces of person that had marked her early days. That this is no figment
of our imagination may easily be seen by anyone who compares her portrait in the group taken
by Miller in 1888 with the photograph by Gunn and Stuart, [680] where she is in her widow's
cap with its long white streamers. In this photograph and others taken at the time she looks
handsome and stately. She is once more "Empress of Damascus." The house in baker Street has
thus been described: "No sooner have you crossed Lady Burton's threshold than you are at once
transported, as if by magic, to Eastern climes. You are greeted by a handsome woman whose black
dress and white widow's cap present a striking contrast to the glow of rich but subdued colour
which surrounds her. Opposite the fireplace is a full length and very characteristic portrait
of Burton in fencing costume. [681] Among the curiosities are the necklace [682] of human bones
given to Burton by Gelele, some specimens of old Istrian china picked up in the cottages near
Trieste, and a three-sided mirror and two crystals with which Burton used to mesmerise his
wife. From the ceiling hung a quaint Moorish lamp with many branches, and its softened rays
often fall on a Damascene silver gilt coffee service studded with turquoises." At the top of
the house and approached by a narrow staircase and a ladder was a large loft, built by herself,
for storing her husband's manuscripts and books. On one side glittered a "small but tastefully
decorated altar," while scattered around were the many relics which have since drifted to Camberwell.

181. The writing of the Life August 1892-March 1893.

In this loft Lady Burton spent many hours examining her husband's papers, and in the autumn
of 1902 she commenced in earnest to write his life--a work that occupied her about eight months.
That she was absolutely unfitted for the task must be clear to all who have any knowledge of
Burton. Indeed, she was quite incapable of doing literary work of any kind properly. The spirit
in which she wrote may be gauged both from the book itself, with its frequent offences against
good taste, and the following citation from a letter to a friend: "I do not know," she said,
"if I can harden my heart against the curs, but I can put out my tongue and point my pen and
play pussy cat about their eyes and ears." By "curs" she means those who rated her for burning
her husband's manuscripts, but in justice to her, let it be borne in mind that she had received
some letters that were quite unworthy of the writers.

The great questions was, Would she live to complete her task? Owing to an incurable complaint
she could give only a limited portion of her time to the work, and there were whole days in
which no progress was made. Every page bears evidences of hurry. We have already told the story
of the three appearances of Sir Richard just before the burning of The Scented Garden MS. Lady
Burton persistently declared that after the third appearance her husband came again and never
left her until she had finished her work. "He was constantly with me," she said to Mr. Murray,
"appearing exactly as in life, and he advised and comforted me. He helped me most materially
towards the compilation of his own biography, and gave me references to books and manuscripts
so that the biography came comparatively easy to my hand. He gave me absolutely the position
of the book in the shelf and the page and reference itself which I required."

A letter [683] of one of Burton's friends contains the following comments on the work. "I plainly
see that the objects of writing the Life were two-fold. First to prove Sir Richard a Roman
Catholic, and thus fit him to be buried with her, and secondly to whitewash his escapades and
insubordination. As to the first, I know he despised [684] the Roman Catholic religion; and
if any very deep sense of religious feeling existed at all, it was of the Mohammedan rather
than anything else; but his religion was not very apparent, though he was fundamentally an
honest and conscientious man, and I think he had but one enemy--himself. He was a very great
man; very like a magnificent machine one part of which had gone wrong--and that was his hot
temper."

Lady Burton's book was finished at Mortlake on 24th March 1893, and appeared in the autumn
of that year. She then commenced the issue of the Memorial Edition of her husband's works.
The Pilgrimage to Al Medinah and Meccah (2 vols.), The Mission to Gelele (2 vols.), and Vikram
and the Vampire appeared in 1893, First Footsteps in East Africa in 1894. The venture, however,
proved a failure, so no more volumes were issued. She published her husband's Pentameron in
1893, and the Catullus in 1894.

Writing 11th July 1893 to Mrs. E. J. Burton just before a visit to that lady, Lady Burton says--and
it must be borne in mind that her complaint often made her feel very ill--"Send me a line to
tell me what is the nearest Roman Catholic Church to you, as I must drive there first to make
all arrangements for Sunday morning to get an early confession, communion and mass (after which
I am at liberty for the rest of the day) because, as you know, I have to fast from midnight
till I come back, and I feel bad for want of a cup of tea. ...The Life is out to-day."

The reception accorded to her work by the Press, who, out of regard to Sir Richard's memory,
spoke of it with the utmost kindness, gave Lady Burton many happy hours. "It is a great pleasure
to me," she says, "to know how kind people are about my book, and how beautifully they speak
of darling Richard." [685]

Most of Lady Burton's remaining letters are full of gratitude to God, tender and Christian
sentiment, faulty English and bad spelling. [686] "I did see The Times," she says, "and was
awfully glad of it. Kinder still is The Sunday Sun, the 1st, the 8th and the 15th of October,
five columns each, which say that I have completely lifted any cloud away from his memory,
and that his future fame will shine like a beacon in all ages. Thank God!" St. George Burton
was wicked enough to twit her for her spelling, and to say that he found out as many as seventeen
words incorrectly spelt in one letter. But she deftly excused herself by saying that she used
archaic forms. "Never mind St. George," she writes good-humouredly, to Mrs. E. G. Burton, "I
like old spelling." She did not excuse her slang by calling it old, or refer her friends to
Chaucer for "awfully glad."

The greatest pleasure of her life was now, as she oddly expresses it, to "dress the mausoleum"
on "darling Dick's anniversary." She says (21st October 1893 to Mrs. E. J. Burton), [687] "I
received your dear flowers, and the mausoleum was quite lovely, a mass of lights and flowers
sent by relations and affectionate friends. Yours stood in front of the altar." Then follows
a delicious and very characteristic sample of Lady Burton's English: "We had mass and communion,"
she says, "and crowds of friends came down to see the mausoleum and two photographers."

She was glad to visit and decorate the Mortlake tomb certainly, but the pleasure was a very
melancholy one, and she could but say, borrowing a thought from The Arabian Nights:

"O tomb, O tomb, thou art neither earth nor heaven unto me." [688]

When Lady Stisted died (27th December 1893), Lady Burton felt the blow keenly, and she wrote
very feelingly on the subject, "Yes," she says, in a letter to Mrs. E. J. Burton, "I was very
shocked at poor Maria's death, and more so because I wish nothing had come between us." "Poor
Maria," she wrote to St. George Burton, "You would be surprised to know, and I am surprised
myself, how much I feel it." In a letter to Madame de Gutmansthal-Benvenuti (10th January 1894),
Lady Burton refers to the Burton tableau to Madame Tussaud's. She says, "They have now put
Richard in the Meccan dress he wore in the desert. They have given him a large space with sand,
water, palms; and three camels, and a domed skylight, painted yellow, throws a lurid light
on the scene. It is quite life-like. I gave them the real clothes and the real weapons, and
dressed him myself."

"I am so glad," she writes to Miss Stisted, [689] "you went to Tussaud's, and that you admired
Dick and his group. I am not quite content with the pose. The figure looks all right when it
stands up properly, but I have always had a trouble with Tussaud about a certain stoop which
he declares is artistic, and which I say was not natural to him."

182. The Library Edition of The Nights 1894.

Lady Burton now authorised the publication of what is called the Library Edition of The Arabian
Nights. According to the Editorial Note, while in Lady Burton's Edition no fewer than 215 pages
of the original are wanting [690] in this edition the excisions amount only to about 40 pages.
The Editor goes on: "These few omissions are rendered necessary by the pledge which Sir Richard
gave to his subscribers that no cheaper edition of the entire work should be issued; but in
all other respects the original text has been reproduced with scrupulous fidelity."

By this time Lady Burton had lost two of her Trieste friends, namely Lisa, the baroness-maid
who died in 1891, and Mrs. Victoria Maylor, Burton's amanuensis, who died in 1894.

Chapter XLI. Death of Lady Burton

Bibliography:

87. The Jew, the Gypsy, and El Islam. 1898. 88. Wanderings in Three Continents. 1901.

183. Lady Burton at Eastbourne.

Lady Burton spent the year 1894 and part of 1895 at Baker Street and Mortlake, making occasional
visits to friends. As at Trieste, she surrounded herself with a crowd of servants and other
idle people whom, in her good nature, she systematically pampered, and who in their turn did
their best to make her life unendurable. She could, however, easily afford these luxuries,
for thanks to the large sums received for her Life of Sir Richard, the Library Edition, &c.,
she was now in affluent circumstances. She won to herself and certainly deserved the character
of "a dear old lady." In politics she was a "progressive Conservative," though what that meant
neither she nor those about her had any clear notion. She dearly loved children--at a safe
distance--and gave treats, by proxy, to all the Catholic schools in the neighbourhood. She
took an active interest in various charities, became an anti-vivisectionist, and used very
humanely to beat people about the head with her umbrella, if she caught them ill-treating animals.
If they remonstrated, she used to retort, "Yes, and how do you like It?" "When she wanted a
cab," says Mr. W. H. Wilkins, "she invariably inspected the horse carefully first, to see if
it looked well fed and cared for; if not, she discharged the cab and got another; and she would
always impress upon the driver that he must not beat his horse under any consideration." On
one occasion she sadly forgot herself. She and her sister, Mrs. FitzGerald, had hired a cab
at Charing Cross Station and were in a great hurry to get home. Of course, as usual, she impressed
upon the cabman that he was not to beat his horse. "The horse, which was a wretched old screw,
refused, in consequence, to go at more than a walking pace," and Lady Burton, who was fuming
with impatience, at last so far forgot herself as to put her head out of the window and cry
to the driver, "Why don't you beat him? Why don't you make him go?" [691] She occasionally
met her husband's friends, Mr. and Mrs. Arbuthnot and Mr. Payne. One day at some dinner it
transpired in the course of conversation that Mr. Payne had all his life been an habitual sufferer
from insomnia.

"I can tell you how to cure that," said Lady Burton.

"How?" said Mr. Payne. "Say your prayers," said she.

After an attack of influenza Lady Burton hired a cottage--Holywell Lodge--at Eastbourne [692]
where she stayed from September to March 1896, busying herself composing her autobiography.
[693] Two letters which she wrote to Miss Stisted from Holywell Lodge are of interest. Both
are signed "Your loving Zoo." The first contains kindly references to Mr. and Mrs. Arbuthnot,
who had been visiting her, and to the widow of Professor Huxley [694] who was staying at Eastbourne;
and the second, which is amusing enough, records her experiences among some very uncongenial
people at Boscombe. Wherever she went, Lady Burton, as we have seen, was always thrusting her
opinions, welcome or not, upon other persons; but at Boscombe the tables were turned, and she
experienced the same annoyance that she herself had so often excited in others.

"I went," she says, "to a little boarding-house called.... The house was as comfortable as
it could be, the food plain, but eatable, but the common table was always chock full of Plymouth
Brethren and tract-giving old maids, and we got very tired of it."

Then follows an account of her establishment at Eastbourne. "It consists," she says, "of my
secretary (Miss Plowman) and nurse, and we have our meals together, and drive out together
whenever I am able. Then my servants are a maid, house-parlour-maid, a housemaid and a cook
(my Baker Street lot). The cottage [at Mortlake] is in charge of a policeman, and Baker Street
a caretaker. My friend left three servants in the house, so we are ten altogether, and I have
already sent one of mine back, as they have too much to eat, too little to do, and get quarrelsome
and disagreeable." Thus it was the same old story, for Lady Burton, though she had the knack
of living, was quite incapable of learning, or at any rate of profiting by experience.

The letter concludes sadly, "As to myself, I am so thin and weak that I cannot help thinking
there must be atrophy, and in any case my own idea is that I may be able to last till March."

184. Death of Lady Burton, 22nd Mar. 1896.

Lady Burton from that time gradually grew weaker; but death, which "to prepared appetites is
nectar," had for her no terrors. To her it meant release from pain and suffering, ultimate
reception into the presence of an all-merciful God, re-union with her beloved husband. She
did, however, last, as she had anticipated, till March. Early in that month she returned to
Baker Street, where she died rather suddenly on Sunday the 22nd.

By her will dated, 28th December 1895, she left some £12,000 to her sister, Mrs. FitzGerald,
[695] and the following persons also benefitted: her sister, Mrs. Van Zeller, £500; her secretary,
Miss Plowman £25; Khamoor £50; her nephew Gerald Arthur Arundell, the cottage at Mortlake;
the Orphanage at Trieste, £105. She directed that after her heart had been pierced with a needle
her body was to be embalmed in order that it might be kept above ground by the side of her
husband. She stated that she had bought a vault close to the tent, and that two places were
to be reserved in it in order that if a revolution should occur in England, and there should
be fear of the desecration of the dead, the coffins of her husband and herself might be lowered
into it. She provided for 3,000 masses to be said for her at once at Paris, and left an annuity
to pay for a daily mass to be said there perpetually. The attendance of priests at her funeral
was to be "as large as possible."

Lady Burton was buried on Friday March 27th, the service taking place in the Catholic church
at Mortlake where five years previous she had knelt beside the coffin of her husband; and a
large number of mourners was present. After mass her remains were carried to the Arab Tent,
and so she obtained her wish, namely, that in death she and her husband might rest in the same
tomb.

185. Miss Stisted's "True Life."

As might have been expected, Lady Burton's Life of her husband gave umbrage to the Stisted
family--and principally for two reasons; first its attempt to throw a flood of Catholic colour
on Sir Richard, and secondly because it contained statements which they held to be incorrect.
So after Lady Burton's death, Miss Stisted wrote and published a small work entitled The True
Life of Sir Richard Burton. It is written with some acerbity, for Lady Burton as a Catholic
was not more militant than Miss Stisted as a Protestant. It throws additional and welcome light
on Sir Richard's early days, but as we have elsewhere remarked, the principal charge that it
made against Lady Burton, namely that she was the main cause of her husband's downfall at Damascus,
is unsupported by sufficient evidence.

186. Mr. Wilkins's Work, 1897.

That there should be a counterblast to The True Life was inevitable, and it came in the shape
of The Romance of Isabel Lady Burton, which consists of Lady Burton's unfinished autobiography
and a continuation by Mr. W. H. Wilkins. The work is a valuable addition to Burton lore, but
Mr. Wilkins's friendship for Lady Burton led him to place her on a far higher pedestal than
we have been able to give her. Perhaps it was natural that in dealing with the True Life he
should have betrayed some heat. However, death has now visited Miss Stisted [696] as well as
Lady Burton, and the commotion made by the falling of the stone into the pool is at this distance
represented only by the faintest of circles. In 1898, Mr. Wilkins published, with an acceptable
preface, three of Burton's unfinished works in one volume, with the title of The Jew, the Gypsy,
and El Islam, and in 1901 he placed the public under further obligation to him by editing and
issuing Burton's Wanderings in Three Continents.

187. Burton's Friends.

Most of Burton's friends have followed him to the tomb. Edward Rehatsek died at a ripe age
at Worli on 11th December 1891, and was cremated in Hindu fashion. At the time of his death
he was working at the translation of the third part of The Rauzat-us-Safa. [697] In his last
letter to Mr. Arbuthnot, after referring to his declining health, he finished by saying, "Hope,
however, never dies; and as work occupies the mind, and keeps off despair, I am determined
to translate for you, though slowly, the third part of the Rauzat-us-Safa, so as to make the
history of the Khalifahs complete." [698]

Mr. Arbuthnot continued to take interest in Oriental matters and wrote prefaces for several
translations by Rehatsek and Dr. Steingass, including the First Part of Rehatsek's Rauzat-us-Safa
(1891) and Steingass's Assemblies of Al Haririr (1898). His Arabic Authors appeared in 1890,
his Mysteries of Chronology in 1900. He died in May 1901, and was buried at Shamley Green,
Guildford. He left money for the Oriental Translation Fund, of which, it will be remembered,
he was the founder, and his memory will always be honoured by Orientalists. A memorial of him--the
Arbuthnot Institute--was opened at Shamley Green on 31st May 1905.

Mr. Ashbee died in 1900, Dr. F. J. Steingass in January, 1903.

After Burton's death, Mr. Letchford went to Bohemia as the guest of the Prince of Thurn and
Taxis. At Vienna his next resort, he painted many beautiful pictures, one of the best being
founded on Edgar Allen Poe's poem, "Silence." Finally he went to Naples, where he produced
the series of pictures that has given him immortality--the illustrations to The Arabian Nights.
Then followed days of darkness and trouble, but he was always courageous. "He felt that what
he had striven for so long was now within his reach; he had the presentiment that he was about
to take those flights of art which are permitted to very few." His portrait of the son of Sir
William Wollcock is a work of genius.

In July 1905, hearing that Mr. Letchford was ill, I wrote to his sister, Daisy, [699] who lived
with him. The letter was received, and Mr. Letchford intended replying to it himself. "He was
only waiting to feel a little stronger," wrote Miss Letchford, "he never thought the end was
near. On Monday morning of the 24th of July he still kept making wonderful plans for the future.
He had the room in which he spent his last hours crowded with flowers, and as he felt his powers
failing him he recited Swinburne's beautiful poem, 'The Garden of Proserpine':

   "Though one were fair as roses
    His beauty clouds and closes."

"Suddenly he lost consciousness, and he awoke from his comatose state only to repeat the identical
words which were Sir Richard Burton's last--'I am dying--I am dead.' His beautiful soul had
left this world for ever, for it was indeed a beautiful soul." [700]

Major Edward Burton, Sir Richard's brother, died 31st October 1895--after his terrible silence
of nearly forty years. He was never married. Miss Stisted died in 1904. So of Burton's parents
there are now no descendants. Within fifteen years of his death, the family was extinct.

Of the friends and intimate acquaintances of Burton who still survive we must first mention
Mr. A. C. Swinburne, Mr. Watts-Dunton and Mr. John Payne. Mr. Swinburne has, year after year,
it is scarcely necessary to say, added to his fame, and all Englishmen are proud of his genius.
The Definitive Edition of his works has delighted all his admirers; and just as we are going
to press everyone is reading with intense interest his early novel Love's Cross Currents. Mr.
Watts-Dunton is in excellent health, and his pen is as vigorous as ever. He enjoys the proud
position of being our greatest living literary critic.

Mr. Payne, who is still hard at work, ahs published since Burton's death translations of The
Novels of Matteo Bandello (six vols. 1890), the Quatrains of Omar Kheyyam (1898), and--Atlantean
task--the Poems of Hafiz (3 vols. 1901). His Collected Poems (1862-1902) in two handsome volumes,
appeared in 1902; and he has since issued Vigil and Vision (1903), Songs of Consolation, and
Hamid the Luckless (1904). In the last he returns to his old love, The Arabian Nights, most
of the poems being founded on tales in that work.

Mr. W. F. Kirby, Dr. Grenfell Baker, Mrs. E. J. Burton, Major St. George Burton, Mr. Frederick
Burton, Mr. P. P. Cautley, Mr. A. G. Ellis, and Professor Blumhardt are also living. His excellency
Yacoub Artin Pasha is still Minister of Instruction at Cairo; Mr. Tedder is still at the Athenaeum.

Our task is ended. Sir Richard Burton was inadequately regarded in his lifetime, and even now
no suitable memorial of him exists in the capital of the Empire, which is so deeply indebted
to him. Let us hope that this omission will soon be rectified. His aura, however, still haunts
the saloons of his beloved Athenaeum, and there he may be seen any day, by those who have eyes
latched [701] over, busily writing at the round table in the library--white suit, shabby beaver,
angel forehead, demon jaw, facial scar, and all. He is as much an integral part of the building
as the helmeted Minerva on the portico; and when tardy England erects a statue to him it ought
to select a site in the immediate neighbourhood of his most cherished haunt.

Our task, we repeat, is ended. No revolution, so far as we are aware, has distracted modern
England, and Sir Richard and Lady Burton still sleep in sepulchral pomp in their marmorean
Arab Tent at Mortlake. More than fifteen years have now elapsed since, to employ a citation
from The Arabian Nights, there came between them "the Destroyer of Delights and the Sunderer
of Companies and glory be to Him who changeth not, neither ceaseth, and in whom all things
have their term." [702]

   THE END.

Verses on the Death of Richard Burton [703] By Algernon Charles Swinburne

 Night of light is it now, wherein Sleeps, shut out from the wild world's
 din,   Wakes, alive with a life more clear,
 One who found not on earth his kin?

 Sleep were sweet for awhile, were dear Surely to souls that were
 heartless here,   Souls that faltered and flagged and fell,
 Soft of spirit and faint of cheer.

 A living soul that had strength to quell Hope the spectre and fear the
 spell,   Clear-eyed, content with a scorn sublime
 And a faith superb, can it fare not well?

 Life, the shadow of wide-winged time, Cast from the wings that change as
 they climb,   Life may vanish in death, and seem
 Less than the promise of last year's prime.

 But not for us is the past a dream Wherefrom, as light from a clouded
 stream,   Faith fades and shivers and ebbs away,
 Faint as the moon if the sundawn gleam.

 Faith, whose eyes in the low last ray Watch the fire that renews the
 day,   Faith which lives in the living past,
 Rock-rooted, swerves not as weeds that sway.

 As trees that stand in the storm-wind fast She stands, unsmitten of
 death's keen blast,   With strong remembrance of sunbright spring
 Alive at heart to the lifeless last.

 Night, she knows, may in no wise cling To a soul that sinks not and
 droops not wing,   A sun that sets not in death's false night
 Whose kingdom finds him not thrall but king.

 Souls there are that for soul's affright Bow down and cower in the sun's
 glad sight,   Clothed round with faith that is one with fear,
 And dark with doubt of the live world's light.

 But him we hailed from afar or near
 As boldest born of his kinsfolk here
 And loved as brightest of souls that eyed
 Life, time, and death with unchangeful cheer,

 A wider soul than the world was wide, Whose praise made love of him one
 with pride   What part has death or has time in him,
 Who rode life's list as a god might ride?

 But we that yearn for a friend's face,--we Who lack the light that
 on earth was he,-- Mourn, though the light be a quenchless flame That
 shines as dawn on a tideless sea.

APPENDICES

 Appendix I
 Bibliography of Richard Burton

 1. Grammar of the Jataki or Belochi Dialect.  (Bombay
 Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society.) 1849.
 3. Reports addressed to the Bombay Government.
    (1.) General Notes on Sind.
    (2.) Notes on the Population of Sind.
 4. Grammar of the Mooltanee Language.
 11. The Kasidah. (Written.  Published in 1880.)
 12. El Islam. (Written.  Published with The Jew and the Gypsy
 in 1898.)
 13. Pilgrimage to Al-Madinah and Meccah. 3 vols. 1855-6. 2nd
 edition, 1857; 3rd edition, 1879.
 14. First Footsteps in East Africa, or an Exploration of Harar.
 1856.
 15. Lake Regions of Equatorial Africa. 2 vols., 1860.
 16. Volume 33 of the Royal Geographical Society. 1860.
 17. The City of the Saints and across the Rocky Mountains to
 California. 1861. Marcy's Prairie Traveller.  Notes by Burton, (Anthropological
 Review), 1864.
 25. Speech at Farewell Dinner given by the Anthropological Society
 to R. F. B. before his departure for South America, 4th April 1865. 1865.
 28. Psychic Facts.  Stone Talk, by Francis Baker [Burton]. 1865.
 29. Notes on Certain Matters connected with the Dahoman. 1865.
 30. On an Hermaphrodite from the Cape de Verde Islands. 1866.
 31. Exploration of the Highlands of the Brazil.... also Canoeing
 down 1,500 Miles of the great River Sao Francisco, from Sabara to
 the Sea. 2 vols., 1869.
 32. Vikram and the Vampire. (Adapted from the Baital Pachisi.) 1870.  (Royal Asiatic Society.) 1871.
 (See No. 37.)
 35. The Jew.  (Written 1871.  Published 1898 with The Gypsy and
 El Islam). 2 vols.,
 1872.  No. 24 is included in Vol. i.
 38. On Human Remains, and other Articles from Iceland. 1872.
 7th January 1873.
 41. Lacerda's Journey to Cazembe in 1798, translated and annotated
 by Capt. R. F. Burton. 1873.
 42. The Captivity of Hans Stade of Hesse, in A.D. 1547-1555, among
 the Wild Tribes of Eastern Brazil.  Translated by Albert Tootal,
 of Rio de Janeiro, and annotated by Burton. 1874.
 43. Articles on Rome. (Macmillan's Magazine.) 1874-5.
 44. The Catellieri, or Prehistoric Ruins of the Istrian Peninsula.
 45. Gerber's Province of Minas Geraes.  Translated by Burton.
 (Royal Geographical Society.) 1874.
 46. New System of Sword Exercise. 1875.  By Isabel Burton.
 50. The Long Wall of Salona and the Ruined Cities of Pharia and
 Gelsa di Lesina. 1875.
 51. The Port of Trieste.
 52. The Gypsy.  (Written in 1875.
 55. Sind Revised. 2 vols., 1877.
 56. The Gold Mines of Midian and the Ruined Midianite Cities. 1878.
 57. A. E. I. (Arabia, Egypt, India.) By Isabel Burton.
 58. Ogham Runes and El Mushajjar.
 60. Camoens. (1.) The Lusiands. 2 vols., 1879.
      (2.) Life of Camoens and Commentary. 1882. 1881.
 65. Thermae of Monfalcone. 1881.
 66. Lord Beaconsfield, a Sketch. Pp. 12. 1882?
 67. To the Gold Coast for Gold. By Burton and Verney Lovett Cameron.
 1883.
 69. Publications of the Kama Shastra Society:--     The Kama Sutra. 1883.
      The Ananga Ranga. 1885.
      The Arabian Nights. 1885-1886.
      The Scented Garden. 1886.
      The Beharistan. 1887.
      The Gulistan. 1888.
      The Nigaristan, etc. (Unpublished.)
 70. The Book of the Sword. 1884.  Printed in 2 vols., 1892.
 73. Iracema or Honey Lips; and Manuel de Moraes the Convert.
 Translated from the Brazilian. 1886.
 74. Six Months at Abbazia.  By Burton and Lady Burton. 1888.
 75. Lady Burton's Edition of The Arabian Nights. 6 vols. 1888.
 76. Supplemental Volumes to The Arabian Nights.
 77. The Scented Garden.  Translated. 1888-1890.
 80. Priapeia. 1890.

    Posthumous Publications

 81. Morocco and the Moors.  By Henry Leared.  Edited by Burton.
 Printed 1891.
 82. Il Pentamerone; or the Tale of Tales. 2 vols., 1893.
 83. The Kasidah.  An edition of 100 copies.
 84. Life of Sir Richard Burton, by Lady Burton. 1893.
 85. Catullus. Printed 1894.
 86. Library Edition of The Arabian Nights.
 87. The Jew, the Gypsy, and El Islam. Printed 1898.
 88. Wanderings in Three Continents. 1901.

    Appendix II

 List of works included in the "Memorial Edition" of Burton's works.
 Only 7 vols. appeared.

 1. Pligrimage to Al Medinah and Meccah.  Vol. i., 1893.
 2.    "                "          "      Vol. ii.  "
 3. Mission to Gelele.  Vol. i., 1893.
 4.      "       "      Vol. ii.,  "
 5. Vikram and the Vampire. 1893.
 6. First Footsteps in East Africa. Vol. i., 1894.
 7.        "            "           Vol. ii.

    Appendix III

 List of Biographies of Sir Richard Burton and Lady Burton.

 By A. B. Richards, A. Wilson and St. Clair Baddeley. 1886.
 By F. Hitchman. 2 vols., 1887.
 By Lady Burton. 2 vols., 1893.
 By Miss G. M. Stisted. 1896.
 By Thomas Wright. 2 vols., 1906.

    Appendix IV

 Extracts relating to Burton

 From the Index to the Publications of the Anthropological Institute
 of Great Britain and Ireland, including the Journal and Transactions
 of the Ethnological Society of London (1843-1871); the Journal and
 Memoirs of the Anthropological Society of London (1863-1871);
 the Anthropological Review; and the Journal of the Anthropological
 Institute (1871-1891).

 On the Akkas.  Title only, with Remarks by E. B. Tylor.  27th March
 1888. J.A.I.,  [705] xviii., 121.
 On Anthropological Collections from the Holy Land.  With Discussion.
 20th November 1871.  3 plates. J.A.I., 300-312, 319, 320.
 No. II.  With Discussion.  4th December 1871.  (2 plates). J.A.I.,
 i., 331-345.
 No. III.  (Notes on the Hamah Stones, with Reduced Transcripts.)
 With Discussion.  4th  March 1872.  (10 plates.)  J.A.I., ii.,
 41-52, 62, 63.
 A Day among the Fans.  17th February 1863.  T.E.S., [706] iii.,
 36-47.
 A Day among the Fans.  A.R., [707] i., 43-54.
 A Day among the Fans.  Discussion.  24th March, 1863.  A.R., i.,
 185.
 Ethnological Notes on M. du Chaillu's Explorations and Adventures in
 Equatorial Africa.  T.E.S. i., 316-326.  A.R.,
 iii., 167-182.
 Flint Flakes from Egypt.  13th November 1877.  (Wood cut.)  J.A.I.,
 vii., 323, 324.
 On an Hermaphrodite from the Cape de Verde Islands.  Notice only.
 17th April 1866.  A.R., iv. J.A.S., [708] p. cl. xxv.
 On Human Remains and other Articles from Iceland.  With Discussion.
 19th November 1872.  J.A.I., ii., 342-344, 346, 347.
 Kitchen-Midden in Brazil.  Anthrop. [709] 44.
 Letter.  15th May 1866.  A.R. iv., J.A.S., pp. cxciii., cxciv.
 Letter.  Antrop., 2, 3.  With Discussion.  8th July 1875.  (2 plates and woodcut.)
 J.A.I., v., 252-299.
 A Mission to Dahome.  Review by W. W. Reade.  A.R. ii., 335.
 Notes on the Castellieri or Prehistoric Ruins of the Istrian
 Peninsula.  Anthrop., 376.
 Notes on Certain Matters connected with the Dahoman.  1st November
 1864.  M.A.S., [710] i., 308-321.
 Discussion on ditto.  A.R., iii., J.A.S., pp. vi.-xi.
 Notes on an Hermaphrodite.  1st May 1866.  M.A.S., 262-263.
 Notes on Scalping.  A.R., ii., 49-52.
 Notes on Waitz's Anthropology.  A.R., ii., 233-250.
 Obituary Notice.  By E.W. Brabrook.  J.A.I., xx., 295-298.
 The Pelagosa Finds.  Title only.  14th March 1876.  J.A.I., vi., 54.
 The Present State of Dahome.  22nd November 1864.  T.E.S., iii.,
 400-408.
 The Primoridal Inhabitants of Minas Geraes, and the Occupations of
 the Present Inhabitants.  With Discussion.  7th January, 1873.
 J.A.I., ii., 407-423.
 Reply to letter on Castellieri dell'Istria.  Anthrop., 412.
 On Slavery in Brazil.  A.R., vi., 56.
 Stones and Bones from Egypt and Midian.  10th December 1878.
 (2 plates.)  J.A.I., viii., 290-319.
 A Word to the Reader.  Anthrop., 375.
 Captain Burton.  A.R., vi., 462,
 Yabrud.  Captain Burton's Collection.  By Dr. C. Carter Blake.
 J.A.I., ii., 58.
 Marcy, Randolph B.  (Captain U.S. Army), The Prairie Traveller.
 Edited by Burton.  Review.  A.R., i., 145-149.
 On Skulls from Annabom in the West African Seas.  By Burton and
 C. Blake.  19th April 1864.  A.R., ii., J.A.S., pp. ccxxx., ccxxxi.
 Burton and Cameron on Stone implements from the Gold Coast.
 With Discussion.  11th July 1882.  (Plate.)  J.A.I., xii., 449-454.
 Burton and Antonio Scampecchio (LL.D.) and Antonio Covaz.  More
 Castellieri (The Seaboard of Istria).  13th November 1877.  J.A.I.,
 vii., 341-363.
 Burton's Explorations in the Brazil.  Review.  A.R., vii., 170.

    Appendix V

 Bibliography of Foster FitzGerald Arbuthnot

 1. Early Ideas.  A group of Hindoo Stories.  Collected by an Aryan.
 1881.
 2. Persian Portraits.  A Sketch of Persian History, Literature and
 Politics.  1887.
 3. Arabic Authors.  A Manual of Arabian History and Literature.
 1890.
 4. The Rauzat-us-safa.... By Muhammed ibu Khavendshah bin Mahmud,
 commonly called Mirkhond.  Edited by F. F. Arbuthnot.  1891.
 5. The Assemblies of Al Hariri.... Prefaced and indexed by
 F. F. Arbuthnot.  8.  1898.
 6. The Mysteries of Chronology. 1900.
 7. Life of Balzac.  Unpublished.  1902.

    Appendix VI

 Bibliography of F. Steingass

 1. English Arabic Dictionary, for the use of both travelers and
 students.  pp. viii., 466.  1882.
 2. The Student's Arabic-English Dictionary.  pp. xvi., 1242.  1884.
 3. An Arabic Reading Book, by A. R. Birdwood, with preliminary
 remarks by F. Steingass.  1890.
 4. A Comprehensive Persian-English Dictionary.... Being Johnson and
 Richardson's Dictionary revised by F. Steingass.  1892.
 5. The last twenty-four Makamats of Abu Muhammad al Kasim al Hariri,
 forming Vol. ii.; Chenery's translation of the first twenty-four
 Makamats is sold with it as Vol. i.  1898.

    Appendix VII

 Bibliography of John Payne [711]

 1. The Masque of Shadows and other Poems.  1870.
 2. Intaglios; Sonnets.  1871.
 3. Songs of Life and Death.  1872.
 4. Lautrec: A Poem.  1878.
 5. The Poems of Francois Villon.  1878.
 6. New Poems.  1880.
 7. The Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night.  Nine vols.
 1882-4.
 8. Tales from the Arabic.  3 vols. 1884.
 9. The Decameron of Boccaccio.  3 vols. 1886.
 10. Alaeddin and Zein ul Asnam.  1889.
 11. The Novels of Matteo Bandello.  6 vols.  1890.
 12. The Quatrains of Omar Kheyyam.  1898.
 13. The Poems of Hafiz.  3 vols.  1901.
 14. Collected Poems.  (1862-1902).  2 vols.  1902.
 15. Vigil and Vision.  New Sonnets.  1903.
 16. Songs of Consolation.  New Lyrics.  1904.
 17. Hamid the Luckless and other Tales in Verse.  1904.

    Appendix VIII

 Notes on Rehatsek's Translation of the Beharistan

 The Beharistan consists of eight chapters:
 1. Aromatic Herbs from the Life of Shaikh Junaid, etc.--a glorification of Sufism.
 2. Philosophical Ana.
 3. The Blooming Realms by Wisdom.
 4. The Trees of Liberality and Generosity.
 5. Tender State of the Nightingale of the Garden of Love.
 6. Breezes of Jocular Sallies.
 7. Signing Birds of Rhyme and Parrots of Poetry.
 8. Animal Fables.
    We give the following as specimens of the Stories:
    First Garden, pp. 14 and 15.

 Story

 Bayazid having been asked what the traditional and the divine law
 amounted to, he replied that the former is to abandon the world,
 and the latter to associate with the Lord.  [These two laws are the
 Sonna and the Farz.]

 Verses

 O thou who concerning the law of the men of the period
 Askest about the traditional and divine command;
 The first is to turn the soul from the world away,
 The second is to find the way of proximity to the Lord.

 Story

 Shebli (may his secret be sanctified) having become demented was
 taken to the hospital and visited by acquaintances.  He asked who
 they were, and they replied: "Thy friends," whereon he took up a
 stone and assaulted them.  They all began to run away, but he
 exclaimed:--"O pretenders, return.  Friends do not flee from
 friends, and do not avoid the stones of their violence."

 Verses

 He is a friend, who although meeting with enmity
 From his friend, only becomes more attached to him.
 If he strikes him with a thousand stones of violence
 The edifice of his love will only be made more firm by them.

    Appendix IX

 Notes on the Nigaristan and Other Unpublished Translations by
 Rehatsek, Presented to the Royal Asiatic Society by F. F. Arbuthnot.

 1. The Nigaristan (Picture Gallery), by Mu'in-uddin Jawini.
 Faithfully translated from the Persian by E. Rehatsek.  1888.

 The Preface is by Arbuthnot.  He points out that there are three
 great Persian didactic works, viz.:--The Gulistan, or Rose Garden,
 by Sadi; The Nigaristan by Jawini; and The Beharistan by Jami.
 The Nigaristan contains 534 stories in prose and verse.
 Some particulars of it are given in Arbuthnot's Persian Portraits
 (Quaritch, 1887), p. 106.

 The two following extracts will give some idea of the contents and
 style of the Nigaristan:

 Zohra [712]

 If Zohra plays the guitar a thousand years,
 The musician's song will always be this:
 Try to become the subject of a good tale,
 Since everyone who lives becomes a tale.

 Fath Mousuli's Prayer

 After having been very prosperous and rich, Fath Mousuli fell into
 poverty and misery.  After a while, however, when he had accustomed
 himself more to his position, he said, "O Lord, send me a revelation
 that I may know by what act I have deserved this gift, so that I may
 offer thanks for this favour."

 2. Translations from the Persian, by the late E. Rehatsek.
    i. A Persian Tract on the observances of the Zenanah, pp. 1 to
 10.
    ii. A Persian Essay on Hospitality, or Etiquette of Eating and
 Drinking, pp. 20 to 29.
    iii. A short Persian Manuscript on Physiognomies, pp. 1 to 8.

 The last consists of a preface and ten chapters.  "These leaves,"
 we are told, "are the compendium of a treatise written by the Ema'n
 Fakhr-al-din Al-Ra'zy--may God overwhelm him with forgiveness--
 on the Science of Physiognomies."  We are told how the abode
 influences character; when the character of a man corresponds with
 that of a beast; that "the index of the dominant passion is the
 face;" that "the male is among all animals stronger and more perfect
 than the female," and so on.

 A short quotation must suffice:

 "When does the character of a man correspond to that of a beast?"

 "If a man has a long face, protuberant eyes, and the tip of his nose
 long, drawn out like the snout of a dog, because as we have
 explained above, external appearances and internal qualities are
 closely connected with each other, so that if a man happens to
 resemble some animal he will possess the nature of it also."

 3. Translations from the Persian and Arabic, by the late
 E. Rehatsek.
 Persian.
    i. Short anecdotes, stories and fables picked out and translated
 from the Nuzhat al Yaman, pp. 1 to 7.
    ii. The Merzuban Namah, from which animal fables have been
 translated, pp. 7 to 21.
 Arabic.
    i. Selected historical and other extracts from the celebrated
 Arabic work, Al Moustairaf, pp. 1 to 5.
    ii. Some extracts from the well-known Siraj-ul-moluk, pp. 5 to 7.
    iii. Twenty-five chapters of Extracts from the Arabic Tuhfat
 ekhoan us safa, under the title of "Discussion between man and
 animals before the King of the Jinns," pp. 7 to 33.

 4. Biography of our Lord Muhammed, Apostle of Allah (Benediction of
 Allah and peace be on him).

 According to the tradition of A'bdu-l-Malik Ebn Hasham, obtained
 from Muhammed Ebn Esahag.  Translated from the Arabic by Edward
 Rehatsek.  Preface by F. F. Arbuthnot.

 There is some account of this work in F. F. Arbuthnot's Arabic
 Authors, pp. 52 and 53.

    Appendix X

 W. F. Kirby

 William Forsell Kirby, F.L.S., F.E.S., is the son of Samuel Kirby,
 banker, and his wife Lydia, nee Forsell; nephew of William Kirby,
 well-known in connection with the London Orphan Asylum; and cousin
 to the popular authoresses, Mary and Elizabeth Kirby.  Born at
 Leicester, 14th January 1844.  He was assistant in the museum of
 Royal Dublin Society (later National Museum of Science and Art) from
 1867 to 1879, and later was transferred to the Zoological Department
 of the British Museum.  He is member of several learned societies,
 and has written a large number of Entomological Works.  He has made
 a special study of the European editions of the Arabian Nights and
 its imitations, and has a very fine collection of books relating to
 this subject.  To his contributions to  Sir Richard Burton's
 translation we have already alluded.  He has also written
 Ed-Dimiryaht and other poems (1867); The New Arabian Nights (1883);
 and The Hero of Esthonia (1905); and his translation of the Kalevala
 is in the press.  Mr. Kirby married in 1866, Johanna Maria Kappel,
 who died in 1893, leaving one son, William E. Kirby, M.D.

 Appendix 11

 Genealogical Table. The Burtons of Shap

 {Unable to reproduce the table.}

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: The few anecdotes that Lady Burton does give are taken from the books of Alfred
B. Richards and others.]

[Footnote 2: Lady Burton to Mrs. E. J. Burton, 23rd March 1891. See Chapter xxxix.]

[Footnote 3: A three days' visit to Brighton, where I was the guest of Mrs. E. J. Burton, is
one of the pleasantest of my recollections.]

[Footnote 4: Mrs. Van Zeller had, in the first instance, been written to, in my behalf, by
Mrs. E. J. Burton.]

[Footnote 5: It is important to mention this because a few months ago a report went the round
of the newspapers to the effect that the tomb was in ruins.]

[Footnote 6: See Chapter xvii.]

[Footnote 7: It is as if someone were to write "Allah is my shepherd, I shall not want," &c.,
&c.,--here and there altering a word--and call it a new translation of the Bible.]

[Footnote 8: See almost any 'Cyclopaedia. Of the hundreds of person with whom I discussed the
subject, one, and only one, guessed how matters actually stood--Mr. Watts-Dunton.]

[Footnote 9: Between Payne and Burton on the one side and the adherents of E. W. Lane on the
other.]

[Footnote 10: At the very outside, as before stated, only about a quarter of it can by any
stretch of the imagination be called his.]

[Footnote 11: Burton's work on this subject will be remembered.]

[Footnote 12: 31st July 1905.]

[Footnote 13: See Chapters xxii. to xxix. and xxxv. He confessed to having inserted in The
Arabian Nights a story that had no business there. See Chapter xxix., 136.]

[Footnote 14: Thus she calls Burton's friend Da Cunha, Da Gama, and gives Arbuthnot wrong initials.]

[Footnote 15: I mean in a particular respect, and upon this all his friends are agreed. But
no man could have had a warmer heart.]

[Footnote 16: Particularly pretty is the incident of the families crossing the Alps, when the
children get snow instead of sugar.]

[Footnote 17: Particularly Unexplored Syria and his books on Midian.]

[Footnote 18: It will be noticed, too, that in no case have I mentioned where these books are
to be found. In fact, I have taken every conceivable precaution to make this particular information
useless except to bona-fide students.]

[Footnote 19: I am not referring to "Chaucerisms," for practically they do not contain any.
In some two hundred letters there are three Chaucerian expressions. In these instances I have
used asterisks, but, really, the words themselves would scarcely have mattered. There are as
plain in the Pilgrim's Progress.]

[Footnote 20: I have often thought that the passage "I often wonder... given to the world to-day,"
contains the whole duty of the conscientious biographer in a nutshell.]

[Footnote 21: Of course, after I had assured them that, in my opinion, the portions to be used
were entirely free from matter to which exception could be taken.]

[Footnote 22: In the spelling of Arabic words I have, as this is a Life of Burton, followed
Burton, except, of course, when quoting Payne and others. Burton always writes 'Abu Nowas,'
Payne 'Abu Nuwas,' and so on.]

[Footnote 23: Conclusion of The Beharistan.]

[Footnote 24: They came from Shap.]

[Footnote 25: Thus there was a Bishop Burton of Killala and an Admira Ryder Burton. See Genealogical
Tree in the Appendix.]

[Footnote 26: Mrs. Burton made a brave attempt in 1875, but could never fill the gap between
1712 and 1750.]

[Footnote 27: Now the residence of Mr. Andrew Chatto, the publisher.]

[Footnote 28: In 1818 the Inspector writes in the Visitors' Book: "The Bakers seldom there."
Still, the Bakers gave occasional treats to the children, and Mrs. Baker once made a present
of a new frock to each of the girls.]

[Footnote 29: Not at Elstree as Sir Richard Burton himself supposed and said, and as all his
biographers have reiterated. It is plainly stated in the Elstree register that he was born
at Torquay.]

[Footnote 30: The clergyman was David Felix.]

[Footnote 31: Weare's grave is unmemorialled, so the spot is known only in so far as the group
in the picture indicates it.]

[Footnote 32: He died 24th October 1828, aged 41; his wife died 10th September 1848. Both are
buried at Elstree church, where there is a tablet to their memory.]

[Footnote 33: For a time Antommarchi falsely bore the credit of it.]

[Footnote 34: Maria, 18th March 1823; Edward, 31st August 1824.]

[Footnote 35: Beneath is an inscription to his widow, Sarah Baker, who died 6th March, 1846,
aged 74 years.]

[Footnote 36: Her last subscription to the school was in 1825. In 1840 she lived in Cumberland
Place, London.]

[Footnote 37: The original is now in the possession of Mrs. Agg, of Cheltenham.]

[Footnote 38: Wanderings in West Africa, ii. P. 143.]

[Footnote 39: Life, i. 29.]

[Footnote 40: Goldsmith's Traveller, lines 73 and 74.]

[Footnote 41: Life, i. 32.]

[Footnote 42: It seems to have been first issued in 1801. There is a review of it in The Anti-Jacobin
for that year.]

[Footnote 43: She was thrown from her carriage, 7th August 1877, and died in St. George's Hospital.]

[Footnote 44: Life, by Lady Burton, i. 67.]

[Footnote 45: Dr. Greenhill (1814-1894), physician and author of many books.]

[Footnote 46: Vikram and the Vampire, Seventh Story, about the pedants who resurrected the tiger.]

[Footnote 47: He edited successively The Daily Telegraph and The Morning Advertiser, wrote
plays and published several volumes of poetry. He began The Career of R. F. Burton, and got
as far as 1876.]

[Footnote 48: City of the Saints, P. 513.]

[Footnote 49: Short died 31st May 1879, aged 90.]

[Footnote 50: In Thomas Morton's Play Speed the Plough, first acted in 1800.]

[Footnote 51: Grocers.]

[Footnote 52: Life, i. 81.]

[Footnote 53: Or so he said. The President of Trinity writes to me: "He was repaid his caution
money in April 1842. The probability is that he was rusticated for a period." If so, he could
have returned to Oxford after the loss of a term or two.]

[Footnote 54: He died 17th November 1842, aged 65.]

[Footnote 55: Robert Montgomery 1807-1855.]

[Footnote 56: "My reading also ran into bad courses--Erpenius, Zadkiel, Falconry, Cornelius
Agrippa"--Burton's Autobiographical Fragment.]

[Footnote 57: Sarah Baker (Mrs. Francis Burton), Georgiana Baker (Mrs. Bagshaw).]

[Footnote 58: Sind Revisited. Vol. ii. pp. 78-83.]

[Footnote 59: 5th May 1843. He was first of twelve.]

[Footnote 60: "How," asked Mr. J. F. Collingwood of him many years after, "do you manage to
learn a language so rapidly and thoroughly?" To which he replied: "I stew the grammar down
to a page which I carry in my pocket. Then when opportunity offers, or is made, I get hold
of a native--preferably an old woman, and get her to talk to me. I follow her speech by ear
and eye with the keenest attention, and repeat after her every word as nearly as possible,
until I acquire the exact accent of the speaker and the true meaning of the words employed
by her. I do not leave her before the lesson is learnt, and so on with others until my own
speech is indistinguishable from that of the native."--Letter from Mr. Collingwood to me, 22nd
June 1905.]

[Footnote 61: The Tota-kahani is an abridgment of the Tuti-namah (Parrot-book) of Nakhshabi.
Portions of the latter were translated into English verse by J. Hoppner, 1805. See also Anti-Jacobin
Review for 1805, p. 148.]

[Footnote 62: Unpublished letter to Mr. W. F. Kirby, 8th April 1885. See also Lib. Ed. of The
Arabian Nights, viii., p. 73, and note to Night V.]

[Footnote 63: This book owes whatever charm it possesses chiefly to the apophthegms embedded
in it. Thus, "Even the gods cannot resist a thoroughly obstinate man." "The fortune of a man
who sits, sits also." "Reticence is but a habit. Practise if for a year, and you will find
it harder to betray than to conceal your thoughts."

[Footnote 64: Now it is a town of 80,000 inhabitants.]

[Footnote 65: Sind Revisited, i. 100.]

[Footnote 66: "The first City of Hind." See Arabian Nights, where it is called Al Mansurah,
"Tale of Salim." Burton's A. N., Sup. i., 341. Lib Ed. ix., 230.]

[Footnote 67: Mirza=Master. Burton met Ali Akhbar again in 1876. See chapter xviii., 84.]

[Footnote 68: Yoga. One of the six systems of Brahmanical philosophy, the essence of which
is meditation. Its devotees believe that by certain ascetic practices they can acquire command
over elementary matter. The Yogi go about India as fortune-tellers.]

[Footnote 69: Burton used to say that this vice is prevalent in a zone extending from the South
of Spain through Persia to China and then opening out like a trumpet and embracing all aboriginal
America. Within this zone he declared it to be endemic, outside it sporadic.]

[Footnote 70: Burton's Arabian Nights, Terminal Essay, vol. x. pp. 205, 206, and The Romance
of Isabel Lady Burton, by W. H. Wilkins, ii., 730.]

[Footnote 71: Married in 1845.]

[Footnote 72: She died 6th March 1846, aged 74.]

[Footnote 73: He died 5th October 1858. See Sind Revisited, ii. 261.]

[Footnote 74: Camoens, born at Lisbon in 1524, reached Goa in 1553. In 1556 he was banished
to Macao, where he commenced The Lusiads. He returned to Goa in 1558, was imprisoned there,
and returned to Portugal in 1569. The Lusiads appeared in 1572. He died in poverty in 1580,
aged 56.]

[Footnote 75: The Arabian Nights.]

[Footnote 76: Who was broken on the wheel by Lord Byron for dressing Camoens in "a suit of
lace." See English Bards and Scotch Reviewers.]

[Footnote 77: Begun at Goa 1847, resumed at Fernando Po 1860-64, continued in Brazil and at
Trieste. Finished at Cairo 1880.]

[Footnote 78: Napier was again in India in 1849. In 1851 he returned to England, where he died
29th August 1853, aged 71.]

[Footnote 79: Life of Sir Charles Napier, by Sir W. Napier.]

[Footnote 80: The Beharistan, 1st Garden.]

[Footnote 81: She married Col. T. Pryce Harrison. Her daughter is Mrs. Agg, of Cheltenham.]

[Footnote 82: She died 10th September 1848, and is buried at Elstree.]

[Footnote 83: Elisa married Colonel T. E. H. Pryce.]

[Footnote 84: That is from Italy, where his parents were living.]

[Footnote 85: Sir Henry Stisted, who in 1845 married Burton's sister.]

[Footnote 86: India, some 70 miles from Goa.]

[Footnote 87: His brother.]

[Footnote 88: The Ceylonese Rebellion of 1848.]

[Footnote 89: See Chapter iii., 11.]

[Footnote 90: See Arabian Nights, Terminal Essay D, and The Romance of Isabel Lady Burton,
vol. ii., p. 730.]

[Footnote 91: His Grandmother Baker had died in 1846.]

[Footnote 92: The Pains of Sleep.]

[Footnote 93: Byron: Childe Harold, iv. 56.]

[Footnote 94: Ariosto's Orlando was published in 1516; The Lusiads appeared in 1572.]

[Footnote 95: Temple Bar, vol. xcii., p. 335.]

[Footnote 96: As did that of the beauty in The Baital-Pachisi--Vikram and the Vampire. Meml.
Ed., p. 228.]

[Footnote 97: Tale of Abu-el-Husn and his slave girl, Tawaddud.--The Arabian Nights.]

[Footnote 98: Life, i., 167.]

[Footnote 99: She became Mrs. Segrave.]

[Footnote 100: See Burton's Stone Talk, 1865. Probably not "Louise" at all, the name being
used to suit the rhyme.]

[Footnote 101: Mrs. Burton was always very severe on her own sex.]

[Footnote 102: See Stone Talk.]

[Footnote 103: See Chapter x.]

[Footnote 104: The original, which belonged to Miss Stisted, is now in the possession of Mr.
Mostyn Pryce, of Gunley Hall.]

[Footnote 105: Of course, since Arbuthnot's time scores of men have taken the burden on their
shoulders, and translations of the Maha-Bharata, the Ramayana, and the works of Kalidasa, Hafiz,
Sadi, and Jami, are now in the hands of everybody.]

[Footnote 106: Preface to Persian Portraits.]

[Footnote 107: Pilgrimage to El-Medinah and Meccah, Memorial Ed., vol. i., p. 16.]

[Footnote 108: Burton dedicated to Mr. John Larking the 7th volume of The Arabian Nights.]

[Footnote 109: Haji Wali in 1877 accompanied Burton to Midian. He died 3rd August 1883, aged
84. See Chapter xx.]

[Footnote 110: He died at Cairo, 15th October 1817.]

[Footnote 111: That is, in the direction of Mecca.]

[Footnote 112: Pilgrimage, Memorial Ed., i., 116.]

[Footnote 113: See Preface to The Kasidah, Edition published in 1894.]

[Footnote 114: Pilgrimage, Memorial Ed., i., 165.]

[Footnote 115: A chieftain celebrated for his generosity. There are several theories.]

[Footnote 121: It is decorated to resemble a garden. There are many references to it in the
Arabian Nights. Thus the tale of Otbah and Rayya (Lib. Ed., v., 289) begins "One night as I
sat in the garden between the tomb and the pulpit."

[Footnote 122: Pilgrimage to Meccah (Mem. Ed., i., 418).]

[Footnote 123: Mohammed's son-in-law.]

[Footnote 124: Mohammed's wet nurse.]

[Footnote 125: Son of Mohammed and the Coptic girl Mariyah, sent to Mohammed as a present by
Jarih, the Governor of Alexandria.]

[Footnote 126: Khadijah, the first wife, lies at Mecca.]

[Footnote 127: Known to us chiefly through Dr. Carlyle's poor translation. See Pilgrimage,
ii., 147.]

[Footnote 128: Here am I.]

[Footnote 129: Readers of The Arabian Nights will remember the incident in the Story of the
Sweep and the Noble Lady. "A man laid hold of the covering of the Kaaba, and cried out from
the bottom of his heart, saying, I beseech thee, O Allah, etc."

[Footnote 130: See Genesis xxi., 15.]

[Footnote 131: The stone upon which Abraham stood when he built the Kaaba. Formerly it adjoined
the Kaaba. It is often alluded to in The Arabian Nights. The young man in The Mock Caliph says,
"This is the Place and thou art Ibrahim."

[Footnote 132: See also The Arabian Nights, The Loves of Al-Hayfa and Yusuf, Burton's A.N.
(Supplemental), vol. v.; Lib. Ed., vol. xi., p. 289.]

[Footnote 133: Burton's A.N., v., 294; Lib. Ed., iv., 242.]

[Footnote 134: See Chapter ix.]

[Footnote 135: Sporting Truth.]

[Footnote 136: The reader may believe as much of this story as he likes.]

[Footnote 137: The man was said to have been killed in cold blood simply to silence a wagging
tongue.]

[Footnote 138: See Shakespeare's King John, act i., scene i.]

[Footnote 139: Burton's translation of the Lusiads, vol. ii., p. 425.]

[Footnote 140: Although Burton began El Islam about 1853, he worked at it years after. Portions
of it certainly remind one of Renan's Life of Jesus, which appeared in 1863.]

[Footnote 141: To some of the beauties of The Arabian Nights we shall draw attention in Chapter
27.]

[Footnote 142: Of course both Payne and Burton subsequently translated the whole.]

[Footnote 143: First Footsteps in East Africa. (The Harar Book.) Memorial Ed., p. 26.]

[Footnote 144: Esther, vi., 1.]

[Footnote 145: Boulac is the port of Cairo. See Chapter xi..]

[Footnote 146: Zeyn al Asnam, Codadad, Aladdin, Baba Abdalla, Sidi Nouman, Cogia Hassan Alhabbal,
Ali-Baba, Ali Cogia, Prince Ahmed and the Fairy Peri-Banou, The two Sisters who were jealous
of their Cadette.]

[Footnote 147: Edward William Lane (1801-1876). He is also remembered on account of his Arabic
Lexicon. Five volumes appeared in 1863-74, the remainder by his grand-nephew Stanley Lane-Poole,
in 1876-1890.]

[Footnote 148: Every student, however, must be grateful to Lane for his voluminous and valuable
notes.]

[Footnote 149: Lady Burton states incorrectly that the compact was made in the "winter of 1852,"
but Burton was then in Europe.]

[Footnote 150: My authorities are Mr. John Payne, Mr. Watts-Dunton and Burton's letters. See
Chapter 22, 104, and Chapter 23, 107.]

[Footnote 151: It was prophesied that at the end of time the Moslem priesthood would be terribly
corrupt.]

[Footnote 152: Later he was thoroughly convinced of the soundness of this theory. See Chapters
xxii. to xxx.]

[Footnote 153: In the Koran.]

[Footnote 154: Burton's A.N., ii. 323; Lib. Ed., ii., p. 215.]

[Footnote 155: When the aloe sprouts the spirits of the deceased are supposed to be admitted
to the gardens of Wak (Paradise). Arabian Nights, Lib. Ed., i. 127.]

[Footnote 156: To face it out.]

[Footnote 157: First Footsteps in East Africa, i., 196.]

[Footnote 158: First Footsteps in East Africa, ii., 31.]

[Footnote 159: The legend of Moga is similar to that of Birnam Wood's March, used by Shakespeare
in Macbeth.]

[Footnote 160: The story of these adventures is recorded in First Footsteps in East Africa,
dedicated to Lumsden, who, in its pages, is often apostrophised as "My dear L."

[Footnote 161: Afterwards Lord Strangford. The correspondence on this subject was lent me by
Mr. Mostyn Pryce, who received it from Miss Stisted.]

[Footnote 162: The Traveller.]

[Footnote 163: Burton's Camoens, ii., 445.]

[Footnote 164: The marriage did not take place till 22nd January 1861. See Chapter x.]

[Footnote 165: This is now in the public library at Camberwell.]

[Footnote 166: In England men are slaves to a grinding despotism of conventionalities. Pilgrimage
to Meccah, ii., 86.]

[Footnote 167: Unpublished letter to Miss Stisted, 23rd May 1896.]

[Footnote 168: We have given the stanza in the form Burton first wrote it--beginning each line
with a capital. The appearance of Mombasa seems to have been really imposing in the time of
Camoens. Its glory has long since departed.]

[Footnote 169: These little bags were found in his pocket after his death. See Chapter xxxviii.]

[Footnote 170: This story nowhere appears in Burton's books. I had it from Mr. W. F. Kirby,
to whom Burton told it.]

[Footnote 171: The Lake Regions of Central Africa, 1860.]

[Footnote 172: Subsequently altered to "This gloomy night, these grisly waves, etc." The stanza
is really borrowed from Hafiz. See Payne's Hafiz, vol. i., p.2.]

  "Dark the night and fears possess us, Of the waves and whirlpools
     wild:
   Of our case what know the lightly Laden on the shores that
     dwell?"

[Footnote 173: The ruler, like the country, is called Kazembe.]

[Footnote 174: Dr. Lacerda died at Lunda 18th October 1798. Burton's translation, The Lands
of the Cazembe, etc., appeared in 1873.]

[Footnote 175: The Beharistan. 1st Garden.]

[Footnote 176: J. A. Grant, born 1827, died 10th February, 1892.]

[Footnote 177: The Romance of Isabel Lady Burton, i., 149.]

[Footnote 178: He is, of course, simply endorsing the statement of Hippocrates: De Genitura:
"Women, if married, are more healthy, if not, less so."

[Footnote 179: The anecdotes in this chapter were told me by one of Burton's friends. They
are not in his books.]

[Footnote 180: This letter was given by Mrs. FitzGerald (Lady Burton's sister) to Mr. Foskett
of Camberwell. It is now in the library there, and I have to thank the library committee for
the use of it.]

[Footnote 181: Life, i., 345.]

[Footnote 182: 1861.]

[Footnote 183: Vambery's work, The Story of my Struggles, appeared in October 1904.]

[Footnote 184: The first edition appeared in 1859. Burton's works contain scores of allusions
to it. To the Gold Coast, ii., 164. Arabian Nights (many places), etc., etc.]

[Footnote 185: Life of Lord Houghton, ii., 300.]

[Footnote 186: Lord Russell was Foreign Secretary from 1859-1865.]

[Footnote 187: Wanderings in West Africa, 2 vols., 1863.]

[Footnote 188: The genuine black, not the mulatto, as he is careful to point out. Elsewhere
he says the negro is always eight years old--his mind never develops. Mission to Gelele, i, 216.]

[Footnote 189: Wanderings in West Africa, vol. ii., p. 283.]

[Footnote 190: See Mission to Gelele, ii., 126.]

[Footnote 191: Although the anecdote appears in his Abeokuta it seems to belong to this visit.]

[Footnote 192: Mrs. Maclean, "L.E.L.," went out with her husband, who was Governor of Cape
Coast Castle. She was found poisoned 15th October 1838, two days after her arrival. Her last
letters are given in The Gentleman's Magazine, February 1839.]

[Footnote 193: See Chapter xxii.]

[Footnote 194: Lander died at Fernando Po, 16th February 1834.]

[Footnote 195: For notes on Fernando Po see Laird and Oldfield's Narrative of an Expedition
into the Interior of Africa, etc. (1837), Winwood Reade's Savage Africa, and Rev. Henry Roe's
West African Scenes (1874).]

[Footnote 196: Told me by the Rev. Henry Roe.]

[Footnote 197: Life, and various other works.]

[Footnote 198: See Abeokuta and the Cameroons, 2 vols., 1863.]

[Footnote 199: Two Trips to Gorilla Land and the Cataracts of the Congo, 2 vols., 1876.]

[Footnote 200: "Who first bewitched our eyes with Guinea gold." Dryden, Annus Mirabilis, 67.]

[Footnote 201: Incorporated subsequently with a Quarterly Journal, The Anthropological Review.]

[Footnote 202: See Chapter xxix., 140.]

[Footnote 203: Foreword to The Arabian Nights, vol. 1. The Arabian Nights, of course, was made
to answer the purpose of this organ.]

[Footnote 204: See Wanderings in West Africa, vol. 2, p. 91. footnote.]

[Footnote 205: Burton.]

[Footnote 206: Afa is the messenger of fetishes and of deceased friends. Thus by the Afa diviner
people communicate with the dead.]

[Footnote 207: This was Dr. Lancaster's computation.]

[Footnote 208: Communicated to me by Mr. W. H. George, son of Staff-Commander C. George, Royal
Navy.]

[Footnote 209: Rev. Edward Burton, Burton's grandfather, was Rector of Tuam. Bishop Burton,
of Killala, was the Rev. Edward Burton's brother.]

[Footnote 210: The copy is in the Public Library, High Street, Kensington, where most of Burton's
books are preserved.]

[Footnote 211: Spanish for "little one."

[Footnote 212: The Lusiads, 2 vols., 1878. Says Aubertin, "In this city (Sao Paulo) and in
the same room in which I began to read The Lusiads in 1860, the last stanza of the last canto
was finished on the night of 24th February 1877."

[Footnote 213: Burton dedicated the 1st vol. of his Arabian Nights to Steinhauser.]

[Footnote 214: Dom Pedro, deposed 15th November 1889.]

[Footnote 215: This anecdote differs considerably from Mrs. Burton's version, Life, i., 438.
I give it, however, as told by Burton to his friends.]

[Footnote 216: Lusiads, canto 6, stanza 95. Burton subsequently altered and spoilt it. The
stanza as given will be found on the opening page of the Brazil book.]

[Footnote 217: He describes his experiences in his work The Battlefields of Paraguay.]

[Footnote 218: Unpublished. Told me by Mrs. E. J. Burton. Manning was made a cardinal in 1875.]

[Footnote 219: Mr. John Payne, however, proves to us that the old Rashi'd, though a lover of
the arts, was also a sensual and bloodthirsty tyrant. See Terminal Essay to his Arabian Nights,
vol. ix.]

[Footnote 220: She thus signed herself after her very last marriage.]

[Footnote 221: Mrs. Burton's words.]

[Footnote 222: Life i., p. 486.]

[Footnote 223: Arabian Nights. Lib. Ed, i., 215.]

[Footnote 224: Burton generally writes Bedawi and Bedawin. Bedawin (Bedouin) is the plural
form of Bedawi. Pilgrimage to Meccah, vol. ii., p. 80.]

[Footnote 225: 1870. Three months after Mrs. Burton's arrival.]

[Footnote 226: It contained, among other treasures, a Greek manuscript of the Bible with the
Epistle of Barnabas and a portion of the Shepherd of Hermas.]

[Footnote 227: 1 Kings, xix., 15; 2 Kings, viii., 15.]

[Footnote 228: The Romance of Isabel Lady Burton, ii., 386.]

[Footnote 229: 11th July 1870.]

[Footnote 230: E. H. Palmer (1840-1882). In 1871 he was appointed Lord Almoner's Professor
of Arabic at Cambridge. He was murdered at Wady Sudr, 11th August 1882. See Chapter xxiii.]

[Footnote 231: Renan. See, too, Paradise Lost, Bk. 1. Isaiah (xvii., 10) alludes to the portable
"Adonis Gardens" which the women used to carry to the bier of the god.]

[Footnote 232: The Hamath of Scripture. 2. Sam., viii., 9; Amos, vi., 2.]

[Footnote 233: See illustrations in Unexplored Syria, by Burton and Drake.]

[Footnote 234: The Land of Midian Revisited, ii., 73.]

[Footnote 235: Life of Edward H. Palmer, p. 109.]

[Footnote 236: Chica is the feminine of Chico (Spanish).]

[Footnote 237: Mrs. Burton's expression.]

[Footnote 238: District east of the Sea of Galilee.]

[Footnote 239: Job, chapter xxx. "But now they that are younger than I have me in derision...
who cut up mallows by the bushes and juniper roots for their meat."

[Footnote 240: Greek Geographer. 250 B.C.]

[Footnote 241: Burton's words.]

[Footnote 242: Published in 1898.]

[Footnote 243: Life, i., 572.]

[Footnote 244: The Romance of Isabel Lady Burton, ii., 504.]

[Footnote 245: The Romance of Isabel Lady Burton, ii., 505.]

[Footnote 246: Temple Bar, vol. xcii., p. 339.]

[Footnote 247: Near St. Helens, Lancs.]

[Footnote 248: Life of Sir Richard Burton, by Lady Burton, i., 591.]

[Footnote 249: 2nd November 1871.]

[Footnote 250: The fountain was sculptured by Miss Hosmer.]

[Footnote 251: 27th February 1871. Celebration of the Prince of Wales's recovery from a six
weeks' attack of typhoid fever.]

[Footnote 252: Her husband's case.]

[Footnote 253: Of course, this was an unnecessary question, for there was no mistaking the
great scar on Burton's cheek; and Burton's name was a household word.]

[Footnote 254: February 1854. Sir Roger had sailed from Valparaiso to Rio Janeiro. He left
Rio in the "Bella," which was lost at sea.]

[Footnote 255: Undated.]

[Footnote 256: Knowsley is close to Garswood, Lord Gerard's seat.]

[Footnote 257: Letter, 4th January 1872.]

[Footnote 258: Garswood, Newton-le-Willows, Lancashire.]

[Footnote 259: Unpublished letter.]

[Footnote 260: The True Life, p. 336.]

[Footnote 261: It had just been vacated by the death of Charles Lever, the novelist. Lever
had been Consul at Trieste from 1867 to 1872. He died at Trieste, 1st June 1872.]

[Footnote 262: Near Salisbury.]

[Footnote 263: Burton's A.N. iv. Lib. Ed., iii., 282. Payne's A.N. iii., 10.]

[Footnote 264: Told me by Mr. Henry Richard Tedder, librarian at the Athenaeum from 1874.]

[Footnote 265: Burton, who was himself always having disputes with cab-drivers and everybody
else, probably sympathised with Mrs. Prodgers' crusade.]

[Footnote 266: Of 2nd November 1891.]

[Footnote 267: Lake Regions of Equatorial Africa (2 vols. 1860). Vol. 33 of the Royal Geographical
Society, 1860, and The Nile Basin, 1864.]

[Footnote 268: A portion was written by Mrs. Burton.]

[Footnote 269: These are words used by children. Unexplored Syria, i., 288. Nah really means
sweetstuff.]

[Footnote 270: Afterwards Major-General. He died in April 1887. See Chapter ix., 38.]

[Footnote 271: Mrs. Burton and Khamoor followed on Nov. 18th.]

[Footnote 272: Burton's works contain many citations from Ovid. Thus there are two in Etruscan
Bologna, pp. 55 and 69, one being from the Ars Amandi and the other from The Fasti.]

[Footnote 273: Stendhal, born 1783. Consul at Trieste and Civita Vecchia from 1830 to 1839.
Died in Paris, 23rd March 1842. Burton refers to him in a footnote to his Terminal Essay in
the Nights on "Al Islam."

[Footnote 274: These are all preserved now at the Central Library, Camberwell.]

[Footnote 275: Now in the possession of Mrs. St. George Burton.]

[Footnote 276: In later times Dr. Baker never saw more than three tables.]

[Footnote 277: Mrs. Burton, was, of course, no worse than many other society women of her day.
Her books bristle with slang.]

[Footnote 278: It is now in the possession of Mrs. E. J. Burton, 31, Whilbury Road, Brighton.]

[Footnote 279: Later Burton was himself a sad sinner in this respect. His studies made him
forget his meals.]

[Footnote 280: His usual pronunciation of the word.]

[Footnote 281: 12th August 1874.]

[Footnote 282: Letter to Lord Houghton.]

[Footnote 283: Dr. Grenfell Baker, afterwards Burton's medical attendant.]

[Footnote 284: Hell.]

[Footnote 285: A.E.I. (Arabia, Egypt, Indian).]

[Footnote 286: Burton's A. N., v., 304. Lib. Ed., vol. 4., p. 251.]

[Footnote 287: About driving four horses.]

[Footnote 288: I do not know to what this alludes.]

[Footnote 289: See Chapter i.]

[Footnote 290: Its population is now 80,000.]

[Footnote 291: Sind Revisited, i., 82.]

[Footnote 292: See Sind Revisited, vol. ii., pp. 109 to 149.]

[Footnote 293: Where Napier with 2,800 men defeated 22,000.]

[Footnote 294: Romance of Isabel Lady Burton, ii., 584.]

[Footnote 295: Dr. Da Cunha, who was educated at Panjim, spent several years in England, and
qualified at the Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons. He built up a large practice in Goa.]

[Footnote 296: There are many English translations, from Harrington's, 1607, to Hoole's, 1783,
and Rose's, 1823. The last is the best.]

[Footnote 297: Sir Henry Stisted died of consumption in 1876.]

[Footnote 298: Robert Bagshaw, he married Burton's aunt, Georgiana Baker.]

[Footnote 299: His cousin Sarah, who married Col. T. Pryce Harrison. See Chapter iv. and Chapter
xix.]

[Footnote 300: Burton's brother.]

[Footnote 301: Romance of Isabel Lady Burton, ii., 656.]

[Footnote 302: Romance of Isabel Lady Burton.]

[Footnote 303: Burton's A.N., Suppl., ii., 61. Lib. Ed. ix., p. 286, note.]

[Footnote 304: Thus, Balzac, tried to discover perpetual motion, proposed to grow pineapples
which were to yield enormous profits, and to make opium the staple of Corsica, and he studied
mathematical calculations in order to break the banks at Baden-Baden.]

[Footnote 305: We are telling the tale much as Mrs. Burton told it, but we warn the reader
that it was one of Mrs. Burton's characteristics to be particularly hard on her own sex and
also that she was given to embroidering.]

[Footnote 306: Preface to Midian Revisited, xxxiv.]

[Footnote 307: Ex Ponto III., i., 19.]

[Footnote 308: The Gold Mines of Midian and the Ruined Midianite Cities (C. Kegan Paul and
Co.) It appeared in 1878.]

[Footnote 309: The Land of Midian Revisited, ii., 254.]

[Footnote 310: Kindly copied for me by Miss Gordon, his daughter.]

[Footnote 311: They left on July 6th (1878) and touched at Venice, Brindisi, Palermo and Gibraltar.]

[Footnote 312: November 1876.]

[Footnote 313: From the then unpublished Kasidah.]

[Footnote 314: The famous Yogis. Their blood is dried up by the scorching sun of India, they
pass their time in mediation, prayer and religious abstinence, until their body is wasted,
and they fancy themselves favoured with divine revelations.]

[Footnote 315: The Spiritualist. 13th December 1878.]

[Footnote 316: In short, she had considerable natural gifts, which were never properly cultivated.]

[Footnote 317: See Chapter xxxviii.]

[Footnote 318: Arabia, Egypt, India.]

[Footnote 319: Letter to Miss Stisted.]

[Footnote 320: She says, I left my Indian Christmas Book with Mr. Bogue on 7th July 1882, and
never saw it after.]

[Footnote 321: Burton dedicated to Yacoub Pasha Vol. x. of his Arabian Nights. They had then
been friends for 12 years.]

[Footnote 322: Inferno, xix.]

[Footnote 323: Canto x., stanza 153.]

[Footnote 324: Canto x., stanzas 108-118.]

[Footnote 325: Between the Indus and the Ganges.]

[Footnote 326: A Glance at the Passion Play, 1881.]

[Footnote 327: The Passion Play at Ober Ammergau, 1900.]

[Footnote 328: A Fireside King, 3 vol., Tinsley 1880. Brit. Mus. 12640 i. 7.]

[Footnote 329: See Chapter xx., 96. Maria Stisted died 12th November 1878.]

[Footnote 330: See Chapter xli.]

[Footnote 331: Only an admirer of Omar Khayyam could have written The Kasidah, observes Mr.
Justin McCarthy, junior; but the only Omar Khayyam that Burton knew previous to 1859, was Edward
FitzGerald. I am positive that Burton never read Omar Khayyam before 1859, and I doubt whether
he ever read the original at all.]

[Footnote 332: For example:-- "That eve so gay, so bright, so glad, this morn
so dim and sad     and grey;
   Strange that life's Register should write this day a day, that
     day a day."

Amusingly enough, he himself quotes this as from Hafiz in a letter to Sir Walter Besant. See
Literary Remains of Tyrwhitt Drake, p. 16. See also Chapter ix.]

[Footnote 333: We use the word by courtesy.]

[Footnote 334: See Life, ii., 467, and end of 1st volume of Supplemental Nights. Burton makes
no secret of this. There is no suggestion that they are founded upon the original of Omar Khayyam.
Indeed, it is probable that Burton had never, before the publication of The Kasidah, even heard
of the original, for he imagined like J. A. Symonds and others, that FitzGerald's version was
a fairly literal translation. When, therefore, he speaks of Omar Khayyam he means Edward FitzGerald.
I have dealt with this subject exhaustively in my Life of Edward FitzGerald.]

[Footnote 335: Couplet 186.]

[Footnote 336: Preserved in the Museum at Camberwell. It is inserted in a copy of Camoens.]

[Footnote 337: Italy having sided with Prussia in the war of 1866 received as her reward the
long coveted territory of Venice.]

[Footnote 338: Born 1844. Appointed to the command of an East Coast expedition to relieve Livingstone,
1872. Crossed Africa 1875.]

[Footnote 339: "Burton as I knew him," by V. L. Cameron.]

[Footnote 340: Nearly all his friends noticed this feature in his character and have remarked
it to me.]

[Footnote 341: The number is dated 5th November 1881. Mr. Payne had published specimens of
his proposed Translation, anonymously, in the New Quarterly Review for January and April, 1879.]

[Footnote 342: This was a mistake. Burton thought he had texts of the whole, but, as we shall
presently show, there were several texts which up to this time he had not seen. His attention,
as his letters indicate, was first drawn to them by Mr. Payne.]

[Footnote 343: In the light of what follows, this remark is amusing.]

[Footnote 344: See Chapter xxiii, 107.]

[Footnote 345: In the Masque of Shadows.]

[Footnote 346: New Poems, p. 19.]

[Footnote 347: The Masque of Shadows, p. 59.]

[Footnote 348: Published 1878.]

[Footnote 349: New Poems, p. 179.]

[Footnote 350: Published 1871.]

[Footnote 351: Mr. Watts-Dunton, the Earl of Crewe, and Dr. Richard Garnett have also written
enthusiastically of Mr. Payne's poetry.]

[Footnote 352: Of "The John Payne Society" (founded in 1905) and its publications particulars
can be obtained from The Secretary, Cowper School, Olney. It has no connection with the "Villon
Society," which publishes Mr. Payne's works.]

[Footnote 353: See Chapter xi., 43.]

[Footnote 354: Dr. Badger died 19th February, 1888, aged 73.]

[Footnote 355: To Payne. 20th August 1883.]

[Footnote 356: No doubt the "two or three pages" which he showed to Mr. Watts-Dunton.]

[Footnote 357: This is a very important fact. It is almost incredible, and yet it is certainly
true.]

[Footnote 358: Prospectuses.]

[Footnote 359: Its baths were good for gout and rheumatism. Mrs. Burton returned to Trieste
on September 11th.]

[Footnote 360: This is, of course, a jest. He repeats the jest, with variation, in subsequent
letters.]

[Footnote 361: The author wishes to say that the names of several persons are hidden by the
dashes in these chapters, and he has taken every care to render it impossible for the public
to know who in any particular instance is intended.]

[Footnote 362: Of course, in his heart, Burton respected Lane as a scholar.]

[Footnote 363: Apparently Galland's.]

[Footnote 364: Mr. Payne's system is fully explained in the Introductory Note to Vol. i. and
is consistently followed through the 13 volumes (Arabian Nights, 9 vols.; Tales from the Arabic,
3 vols.; Alaeddin and Zein-ul-Asnam, i vol.).]

[Footnote 365: One of the poets of The Arabian Nights.]

[Footnote 366: See Chapter iii. 11.]

[Footnote 367: He published some of this information in his Terminal Essay.]

[Footnote 368: Perhaps we ought again to state most emphatically that Burton's outlook was
strictly that of the student. He was angry because he had, as he believed, certain great truths
to tell concerning the geographical limits of certain vices, and an endeavour was being made
to prevent him from publishing them.]

[Footnote 369: Burton's A. N. vi., 180; Lib. Ed. v., 91, The Three Wishes, or the Man who longed
to see the Night of Power.]

[Footnote 370: The Lady and her Five Suitors, Burton's A. N., vi., 172; Lib. Ed., v., 83; Payne's
A. N., v., 306. Of course Mr. Payne declined to do this.]

[Footnote 371: Possibly this was merely pantomime. Besant, in his Life of Palmer, p. 322, assumes
that Matr Nassar, or Meter, as he calls him, was a traitor.]

[Footnote 372: Cloak.]

[Footnote 373: Cursing is with Orientals a powerful weapon of defence. Palmer was driven to
it as his last resource. If he could not deter his enemies in this way he could do no more.]

[Footnote 374: Burton's Report and Besant's Life of Palmer, p. 328.]

[Footnote 375: See Chapter vi., 22.]

[Footnote 376: Palmer translated only a few songs in Hafiz. Two will be found in that well-known
Bibelot, Persian Love Songs.]

[Footnote 377: There were two editions of Mr. Payne's Villon. Burton is referring to the first.]

[Footnote 378: Augmentative of palazzo, a gentleman's house.]

[Footnote 379: We have altered this anecdote a little so as to prevent the possibility of the
blanks being filled up.]

[Footnote 380: That which is knowable.]

[Footnote 381: Let it be remembered that the edition was (to quote the title-page) printed
by private subscription and for private circulation only and was limited to 500 copies at a
high price. Consequently the work was never in the hands of the general public.]

[Footnote 382: This was a favourite saying of Burton's. We shall run against it elsewhere.
See Chapter xxxiv., 159. Curiously enough, there is a similar remark in Mr. Payne's Study of
Rabelais written eighteen years previous, and still unpublished.]

[Footnote 383: Practically there was only the wearisome, garbled, incomplete and incorrect
translation by Dr. Weil.]

[Footnote 384: The Love of Jubayr and the Lady Budur, Burton's A. N. iv., 234; Lib. Ed., iii.,
350; Payne's A. N., iv., 82.]

[Footnote 385: Three vols., 1884.]

[Footnote 386: The public were to some extent justified in their attitude. They feared that
these books would find their way into the hands of others than bona fide students. Their fears,
however, had no foundation. In all the libraries visited by me extreme care was taken that
none but the genuine student should see these books; and, of course, they are not purchasable
anywhere except at prices which none but a student, obliged to have them, would dream of giving.]

[Footnote 387: He married in 1879, Ellinor, widow of James Alexander Guthrie, Esp., of Craigie,
Forfarshire, and daughter of Admiral Sir James Stirling.]

[Footnote 388: Early Ideas by an Aryan, 1881. Alluded to by Burton in A. N., Lib. Ed., ix.,
209, note.]

[Footnote 389: Persian Portraits, 1887. "My friend Arbuthnot's pleasant booklet, Persian Portraits,"
A. N. Lib. Ed. x., 190.]

[Footnote 390: Arabic Authors, 1890.]

[Footnote 391: In Kalidasa's Megha Duta he is referred to as riding on a peacock.]

[Footnote 392: Sir William Jones. The Gopia correspond with the Roman Muses.]

[Footnote 393: The reader will recall Mr. Andrew Lang's witty remark in the preface to his
edition of the Arabian Nights.]

[Footnote 394: Kalyana Mull.]

[Footnote 395: The hand of Burton betrays itself every here and there. Thus in Part 3 of the
former we are referred to his Vikram and the Vampire for a note respecting the Gandharva-vivaha
form of marriage. See Memorial Edition, p. 21.]

[Footnote 396: This goddess is adored as the patroness of the fine arts. See "A Hymn to Sereswaty,"
Poetical Works of Sir William Jones, Vol. ii., p. 123; also The Hindoo Pantheon, by Major Moor
(Edward FitzGerald's friend).]

[Footnote 397: "Pleasant as nail wounds"--The Megha Duta, by Kalidasa.]

[Footnote 398: A girl married in her infancy.]

[Footnote 399: The Hindu women were in the habit, when their husbands were away, of braiding
their hair into a single lock, called Veni, which was not to be unloosed until their return.
There is a pretty reference to this custom in Kalidasa's Megha Duta.]

[Footnote 400: Guy de Maupasant, by Leo Tolstoy.]

[Footnote 401: The Kama Sutra.]

[Footnote 402: Richard Monckton Milnes, born 1809, created a peer 1863, died 1885. His life
by T. Wemyss Reid appeared in 1891.]

[Footnote 403: Burton possessed copies of this work in Sanskrit, Mar'athi Guzrati, and Hindustani.
He describes the last as "an unpaged 8vo. of 66 pages, including eight pages of most grotesque
illustrations." Burton's A. N., x., 202; Lib. Ed., viii., 183.]

[Footnote 404: Kullianmull.]

[Footnote 405: Memorial Edition, p. 96.]

[Footnote 406: The book has several times been reprinted. All copies, however, I believe, bear
the date 1886. Some bear the imprint "Cosmopoli 1886."

[Footnote 407: See Chapter xxxii. It may be remembered also that Burton as good as denied that
he translated The Priapeia.]

[Footnote 408: A portion of Miss Costello's rendering is given in the lovely little volume
"Persian Love Songs," one of the Bibelots issued by Gay and Bird.]

[Footnote 409: Byron calls Sadi the Persian Catullus, Hafiz the Persian Anacreon, Ferdousi
the Persian Homer.]

[Footnote 410: Eastwick, p. 13.]

[Footnote 411: Tales from the Arabic.]

[Footnote 412: That is in following the Arabic jingles. Payne's translation is in reality as
true to the text as Burton's.]

[Footnote 413: By W. A. Clouston, 8vo., Glasgow, 1884. Only 300 copies printed.]

[Footnote 414: Mr. Payne understood Turkish.]

[Footnote 415: Copies now fetch from £30 to £40 each. The American reprint, of which we are
told 1,000 copies were issued a few years ago, sells for about £20.]

[Footnote 416: He had intended to write two more volumes dealing with the later history of
the weapon.]

[Footnote 417: It is dedicated to Burton.]

[Footnote 418: For outline of Mr. Kirby's career, see Appendix.]

[Footnote 419: Burton read German, but would never speak it. He said he hated the sound.]

[Footnote 420: We cannot say. Burton was a fair Persian scholar, but he could not have known
much Russian.]

[Footnote 421: See Chapter ix.]

[Footnote 422: This essay will be found in the 10th volume of Burton's Arabian Nights, and
in the eighth volume (p. 233) of the Library Edition.]

[Footnote 423: Mr. Payne's account of the destruction of the Barmecides is one of the finest
of his prose passages. Burton pays several tributes to it. See Payne's Arabian Nights, vol. ix.]

[Footnote 424: Tracks of a Rolling Stone, by Hon. Henry J. Coke, 1905.]

[Footnote 425: Lady Burton's edition, issued in 1888, was a failure. For the Library Edition,
issued in 1894, by H. S. Nichols, Lady Burton received, we understand, £3,000.]

[Footnote 426: Duvat inkstand, dulat fortune. See The Beharistan, Seventh Garden.]

[Footnote 427: Mr. Arbuthnot was the only man whom Burton addressed by a nickname.]

[Footnote 428: Headings of Jami's chapters.]

[Footnote 429: It appeared in 1887.]

[Footnote 430: Abu Mohammed al Kasim ibn Ali, surnamed Al-Hariri (the silk merchant), 1054
A. D. to 1121 A. D. The Makamat, a collection of witty rhymed tales, is one of the most popular
works in the East. The interest clusters round the personality of a clever wag and rogue named
Abu Seid.]

[Footnote 431: The first twenty-four Makamats of Abu Mohammed al Kasim al Hariri, were done
by Chenery in 1867. Dr. Steingass did the last 24, and thus completed the work. Al Hariri is
several times quoted in the Arabian Nights. Lib. Ed. iv., p. 166; viii., p. 42.]

[Footnote 432: Times, 13th January 1903.]

[Footnote 433: Lib. Ed. vol. 8, pp. 202-228.]

[Footnote 434: See Notes to Judar and his Brethren. Burton's A. N., vi., 255; Lib. Ed., v., 161.]

[Footnote 435: Burton's A. N. Suppl., vi., 454; Lib. Ed., xii., 278. Others who assisted Burton
were Rev. George Percy Badger, who died February 1888, Mr. W. F. Kirby, Professor James F.
Blumhardt, Mr. A. G. Ellis, and Dr. Reinhold Rost.]

[Footnote 436: See Chapter xxx.]

[Footnote 437: This work consists of fifty folk tales written in the Neapolitan dialect. They
are supposed to be told by ten old women for the entertainment of a Moorish slave who had usurped
the place of the rightful Princess. Thirty-one of the stories were translated by John E. Taylor
in 1848. There is a reference to it in Burton's Arabian Nights, Lib. Ed., ix., 280.]

[Footnote 438: Meaning, of course, Lord Houghton's money.]

[Footnote 439: Cf. Esther, vi., 8 and 11.]

[Footnote 440: Ought there not to be notices prohibiting this habit in our public reference
libraries? How many beautiful books have been spoilt by it!

[Footnote 441: The joys of Travel are also hymned in the Tale of Ala-al-Din. Lib. Ed., iii., 167.]

[Footnote 442: Cf. Seneca on Anger, Ch. xi. "Such a man," we cry, "has done me a shrewd turn,
and I never did him any hurt! Well, but it may be I have mischieved other people."

[Footnote 443: Payne's Version. See Burton's Footnote, and Payne vol. i., p. 93.]

[Footnote 444: Burton's A. N. i., 237; Lib. Ed., i., 218. Payne translates it:

 If thou demand fair play of Fate, therein thou dost it wrong; and blame
   it not, for 'twas not made, indeed, for equity.
 Take what lies ready to thy hand and lay concern aside, for troubled
   days and days of peace in life must surely be.]

[Footnote 445: Burton's A. N., ii., 1; Lib. Ed., i., 329; Payne's A. N., i., 319.]

[Footnote 446: Payne has--"Where are not the old Chosroes, tyrants of a bygone day? Wealth
they gathered, but their treasures and themselves have passed away." Vol. i., p. 359.]

[Footnote 447: To distinguish it from date honey--the drippings from ripe dates.]

[Footnote 448: Ja'afar the Barmecide and the Beanseller.]

[Footnote 449: Burton's A. N., v., 189; Lib. Ed., iv., 144; Payne's A. N., iv., 324.]

[Footnote 450: Burton's A. N., vi., 213; Lib. Ed., v., 121; Payne's A. N., vi., 1.]

[Footnote 451: Burton's A. N., ix., 304; Lib. Ed., vii., 364; Payne's A. N., ix., 145.]

[Footnote 452: Burton's A. N., ix., 134; Lib. Ed., viii., 208; Payne's A. N., viii., 297.]

[Footnote 453: Burton's A. N., ix., 165; Lib. Ed., vii., 237; Payne's A. N., viii., 330.]

[Footnote 454: Burton's A. N., viii., 264 to 349; ix., 1 to 18; Lib. Ed., vii., 1 to 99; Payne's
A. N., viii., 63 to 169.]

[Footnote 455: Burton's A. N., vol. x., p. 1; Lib. Ed., vol. viii., p. 1; Payne's A. N., vol.
ix., p. 180.]

[Footnote 456: Satan--See Story of Ibrahim of Mosul. Burton's A. N., vii., 113; Lib. Ed., v.,
311; Payne's A. N., vi., 215.]

[Footnote 457: Payne.]

[Footnote 458: "Queen of the Serpents," Burton's A. N., v., 298; Lib. Ed., iv., 245; Payne's
A. N., v., 52.]

[Footnote 459: Burton's A. N., vi., 160; Lib. Ed., v., 72; Payne's A. N., v., 293.]

[Footnote 460: See Arabian Nights. Story of Aziz and Azizeh. Payne's Translation; also New
Poems by John Payne, p. 98.]

[Footnote 461: Here occurs the break of "Night 472."

[Footnote 462: Burton's A. N., ii., p. 324-5; Lib. Ed., ii., p, 217; Payne, ii., p. 247.]

[Footnote 463: The reader may like to compare some other passages. Thus the lines "Visit thy
lover," etc. in Night 22, occur also in Night 312. In the first instance Burton gives his own
rendering, in the second Payne's. See also Burton's A. N., viii., 262 (Lib. Ed., vi., 407);
viii., 282 (Lib. Ed., vii., 18); viii., 314 (Lib. Ed., vii., 47); viii., 326 (Lib. Ed., vii.,
59); and many other places.]

[Footnote 464: Thus in the story of Ibrahim and Jamilah [Night 958:, Burton takes 400 words--that
is nearly a page--verbatim, and without any acknowledgement. It is the same, or thereabouts,
every page you turn to.]

[Footnote 465: Of course, the coincidences could not possibly have been accidental, for both
translators were supposed to take from the four printed Arabic editions. We shall presently
give a passage by Burton before Payne translated it, and it will there be seen that the phraseology
of the one translator bears no resemblance whatever to that of the other. And yet, in this
latter instance, each translator took from the same original instead of from four originals.
See Chapter xxiii.]

[Footnote 466: At the same time the Edinburgh Review (July 1886) goes too far. It puts its
finger on Burton's blemishes, but will not allow his translation a single merit. It says, "Mr.
Payne is possessed of a singularly robust and masculine prose style... Captain Burton's English
is an unreadable compound of archaeology and slang, abounding in Americanisms, and full of
an affected reaching after obsolete or foreign words and phrases."

[Footnote 467: "She drew her cilice over his raw and bleeding skin." [Payne has "hair shirt."]--"Tale
of the Ensorcelled Prince." Lib. Ed., i., 72.]

[Footnote 468: "Nor will the egromancy be dispelled till he fall from his horse." [Payne has
"charm be broken."]--"Third Kalendar's Tale." Lib. Ed., i., 130. "By virtue of my egromancy
become thou half stone and half man." [Payne has "my enchantments."]--"Tale of the Ensorcelled
Prince." Lib. Ed., i., 71.]

[Footnote 469: "The water prisoned in its verdurous walls."--"Tale of the Jewish Doctor."

[Footnote 470: "Like unto a vergier full of peaches." [Note.--O.E. "hortiyard" Mr. Payne's
word is much better.]--"Man of Al Zaman and his Six Slave Girls."

[Footnote 471: "The rondure of the moon."--"Hassan of Bassorah." [Shakespeare uses this word,
Sonnet 21, for the sake of rhythm. Caliban, however, speaks of the "round of the moon."]

[Footnote 472: "That place was purfled with all manner of flowers." [Purfled means bordered,
fringed, so it is here used wrongly.] Payne has "embroidered," which is the correct word.--"Tale
of King Omar," Lib. Ed., i., 406.]

[Footnote 473: Burton says that he found this word in some English writer of the 17th century,
and, according to Murray, "Egremauncy occurs about 1649 in Grebory's Chron. Camd. Soc. 1876,
183." Mr. Payne, however, in a letter to me, observes that the word is merely an ignorant corruption
of "negromancy," itself a corruption of a corruption it is "not fit for decent (etymological)
society."

[Footnote 474: A well-known alchemical term, meaning a retort, usually of glass, and completely
inapt to express a common brass pot, such as that mentioned in the text. Yellow copper is brass;
red copper is ordinary copper.]

[Footnote 475: Fr. ensorceler--to bewitch. Barbey d'Aurevilly's fine novel L'Ensorcelee, will
be recalled. Torrens uses this word, and so does Payne, vol. v., 36. "Hath evil eye ensorcelled
thee?"

[Footnote 476: Lib. Ed., ii., 360.]

[Footnote 477: Swevens--dreams.]

[Footnote 478: Burton, indeed, while habitually paraphrasing Payne, no less habitually resorts,
by way of covering his "conveyances," to the clumsy expedient of loading the test with tasteless
and grotesque additions and variations (e.g., "with gladness and goodly gree," "suffering from
black leprosy," "grief and grame," "Hades-tombed," "a garth right sheen," "e'en tombed in their
tombs," &c., &c.), which are not only meaningless, but often in complete opposition to the
spirit and even the letter of the original, and, in any case, exasperating in the highest degree
to any reader with a sense of style.]

[Footnote 479: Burton's A. N., v., 135; Lib. Ed., iv., 95.]

[Footnote 480: Or Karim-al-Din. Burton's A. N., v., 299; Lib. Ed., iv., 246; Payne's A. N., v. 52.]

[Footnote 481: Le Fanu had carefully studied the effects of green tea and of hallucinations
in general. I have a portion of the correspondence between him and Charles Dickens on this
subject.]

[Footnote 482: Burton's A. N., Suppl. ii., 90-93; Lib. Ed., ix., 307, 308.]

[Footnote 483: Lib. Ed., iv., 147.]

[Footnote 484: "The Story of Janshah." Burton's A. N., v., 346; Lib. Ed., iv., 291.]

[Footnote 485: One recalls "Edith of the Swan Neck," love of King Harold, and "Judith of the
Swan Neck," Pope's "Erinna," Cowper's Aunt.]

[Footnote 486: Burton's A. N., x., 6; Lib. Ed., viii., 6.]

[Footnote 487: Burton's A. N., viii., 275; Lib. Ed., vii., 12.]

[Footnote 488: Burton's A. N., vii., 96; Lib. Ed., v., 294.]

[Footnote 489: Burton's A. N., Suppl. Nights, vi., 438; Lib. Ed., xii., 258.]

[Footnote 490: Burton's A. N., x., 199; Lib. Ed., viii., 174; Payne's A. N., ix., 370.]

[Footnote 491: The writer of the article in the Edinburgh Review (no friend of Mr. Payne),
July 1886 (No. 335, p. 180.), says Burton is "much less accurate" than Payne.]

[Footnote 492: New York Tribune, 2nd November 1891.]

[Footnote 493: See Chapter xxxiii.]

[Footnote 494: Still, as everyone must admit, Burton could have said all he wanted to say in
chaster language.]

[Footnote 495: Arbuthnot's comment was: "Lane's version is incomplete, but good for children,
Payne's is suitable for cultured men and women, Burton's for students."

[Footnote 496: See Chapter xii., 46.]

[Footnote 497: Burton's A. N., x., 180, 181; Lib. Ed., viii., 163.]

[Footnote 498: Burton's A. N., x., 203; Lib. Ed., viii., 184.]

[Footnote 499: Of course, all these narratives are now regarded by most Christians in quite
a different light from that in which they were at the time Burton was writing. We are all of
us getting to understand the Bible better.]

[Footnote 500: Lady Burton gives the extension in full. Life, vol. ii, p. 295.]

[Footnote 501: The Decameron of Boccaccio. 3 vols., 1886.]

[Footnote 502: Any praise bestowed upon the translation (apart from the annotations) was of
course misplaced--that praise being due to Mr. Payne.]

[Footnote 503: Lady Burton's surprise was, of course, only affected. She had for long been
manoeuvering to bring this about, and very creditably to her.]

[Footnote 504: Life, ii., 311.]

[Footnote 505: Dr. Baker, Burton's medical attendant.]

[Footnote 506: Burton's Camoens, i., p. 28.]

[Footnote 507: Life, vol. i., p. 396.]

[Footnote 508: Note to "Khalifah," Arabian Nights, Night 832.]

[Footnote 509: Childe Harold, iv., 31, referring, of course, to Petrarch.]

[Footnote 510: Terminal Essay, Arabian Nights.]

[Footnote 511: It reminded him of his old enemy, Ra'shid Pasha. See Chap. xiv.]

[Footnote 512: Pilgrimage to Meccah, ii., 77.]

[Footnote 513: Mission to Gelele, ii., 126.]

[Footnote 514: Task, Book i.]

[Footnote 515: By A. W. Kinglake.]

[Footnote 516: See Lib. Ed. Nights, Sup., vol. xi., p. 365.]

[Footnote 517: Chambers's Journal, August 1904.]

[Footnote 518: Chambers's Journal.]

[Footnote 519: Ex Ponto, iv., 9.]

[Footnote 520: Or words to that effect.]

[Footnote 521: This was no solitary occasion. Burton was constantly chaffing her about her
slip-shod English, and she always had some piquant reply to give him.]

[Footnote 522: See Chapter xxxv., 166.]

[Footnote 523: Now Queen Alexandra.]

[Footnote 524: Life, ii., 342.]

[Footnote 525: This remark occurs in three of his books, including The Arabian Nights.]

[Footnote 526: Stories of Janshah and Hasan of Bassorah.]

[Footnote 527: One arch now remains. There is in the British Museum a quarto volume of about
200 pages (Cott. MSS., Vesp., E 26) containing fragments of a 13th Century Chronicle of Dale.
On Whit Monday 1901, Mass was celebrated within the ruins of Dale Abbey for the first time
since the Reformation.]

[Footnote 528: The Church, however, was at that time, and is now, always spoken of as the "Shrine
of Our Lady of Dale, Virgin Mother of Pity." The Very Rev. P. J. Canon McCarthy, of Ilkeston,
writes to me, "The shrine was an altar to our Lady of Sorrows or Pieta, which was temporarily
erected in the Church by the permission of the Bishop of Nottingham (The Right Rev. E. S. Bagshawe),
till such time as its own chapel or church could be properly provided. The shrine was afterwards
honoured and recognised by the Holy See." See Chapter xxxix.]

[Footnote 529: Letter to me, 18th June 1905. But see Chapter xxxv.]

[Footnote 530: Murphy's Edition of Johnson's Works, vol, xii., p. 412.]

[Footnote 531: Preface to The City of the Saints. See also Wanderings in West Africa, i., p.
21, where he adds, "Thus were written such books as Eothen and Rambles beyond Railways; thus
were not written Lane's Egyptians or Davis's Chinese."

[Footnote 532: The general reader will prefer Mrs. Hamilton Gray's Tour to the Sepulchres of
Etruria, 1839; and may like to refer to the review of it in The Gentleman's Magazine for April,
1841.]

[Footnote 533: Phrynichus.]

[Footnote 534: Supplemental Nights, Lib. Ed., x., 302, Note.]

[Footnote 535: The recent speeches (July 1905) of the Bishop of Ripon and the letters of the
Rev. Dr. Barry on this danger to the State will be in the minds of many.]

[Footnote 536: Burton means what is now called the Neo-Malthusian system, which at the time
was undergoing much discussion, owing to the appearance, at the price of sixpence, of Dr. H.
Allbutt's well-known work The Wife's Handbook. Malthus's idea was to limit families by late
marriages; the Neo-Malthusians, who take into consideration the physiological evils arising
from celibacy, hold that it is better for people to marry young, and limit their family by
lawful means.]

[Footnote 537: This is Lady Burton's version. According to another version it was not this
change in government that stood in Sir Richard's way.]

[Footnote 538: Vide the Preface to Burton's Catullus.]

[Footnote 539: We are not so prudish as to wish to see any classical work, intended for the
bona fide student, expurgated. We welcome knowledge, too, of every kind; but we cannot shut
our eyes to the fact that in much of Sir Richard's later work we are not presented with new
information. The truth is, after the essays and notes in The Arabian Nights, there was nothing
more to say. Almost all the notes in the Priapeia, for example, can be found in some form or
other in Sir Richard's previous works.]

[Footnote 540: Decimus Magnus Ausonius (A.D. 309 to A.D. 372) born at Burdegala (Bordeaux).
Wrote epigrams, Ordo Nobilium Urbium, short poems on famous cities, Idyllia, Epistolae and
the autobiographical Gratiarum Actio.]

[Footnote 541: Among the English translations of Catullus may be mentioned those by the Hon.
George Lamb, 1821, and Walter K. Kelly, 1854 (these are given in Bohn's edition), Sir Theodore
Martin, 1861, James Cranstoun, 1867, Robinson Ellis, 1867 and 1871, Sir Richard Burton, 1894,
Francis Warre Cornish, 1904. All are in verse except Kelly's and Cornish's. See also Chapter
xxxv. of this work.]

[Footnote 542: Mr. Kirby was on the Continent.]

[Footnote 543: Presentation copy of the Nights.]

[Footnote 544: See Mr. Kirby's Notes in Burton's Arabian Nights.]

[Footnote 545: See Chapter xxix.]

[Footnote 546: Now Professor of Sanskrit at Cambridge.]

[Footnote 547: Chapter xxxi.]

[Footnote 548: Burton's book, Etruscan Bologna, has a chapter on the contadinesca favella Bolognese,
pp. 242-262.]

[Footnote 549: 20th September 1887, from Adeslberg, Styria.]

[Footnote 550: Writer's cramp of the right hand, brought on by hard work.]

[Footnote 551: Of the Translation of The Novels of Matteo Bandello, 6 vols. Published in 1890.]

[Footnote 552: Mr. Payne had not told Burton the name of the work, as he did not wish the news
to get abroad prematurely.]

[Footnote 553: She very frequently committed indiscretions of this kind, all of them very creditable
to her heart, but not to her head.]

[Footnote 554: Folkestone, where Lady Stisted was staying.]

[Footnote 555: Lady Stisted and her daughter Georgiana.]

[Footnote 556: Verses on the Death of Richard Burton.--New Review. Feb. 1891.]

[Footnote 557: With The Jew and El Islam.]

[Footnote 558: Mr. Watts-Dunton, need we say? is a great authority on the Gypsies. His novel
Aylwin and his articles on Borrow will be called to mind.]

[Footnote 559:

              My hair is straight as the falling rain
              And fine as the morning mist.
                      --Indian Love, Lawrence Hope.]

[Footnote 560: The Jew, The Gypsy, and El Islam, p. 275.]

[Footnote 561: It is dedicated to Burton.]

[Footnote 562: Burton's A. N., Suppl. i., 312; Lib. Ed., ix., 209. See also many other of Burton's
Notes.]

[Footnote 563: Lib. Ed., vol. x.]

[Footnote 564: Lib. Ed., x., p. 342. xi., p. 1.]

[Footnote 565: Lib. Ed., xii.]

[Footnote 566: Burton differed from Mr. Payne on this point. He thought highly of these tales.
See Chapter xxxv, 167.]

[Footnote 567: This paragraph does not appear in the original. It was made up by Burton.]

[Footnote 568: One friend of Burton's to whom I mentioned this matter said to me, "I was always
under the impression that Burton had studied literary Arabic, but that he had forgotten it."

[Footnote 569: Life, ii., 410. See also Romance, ii., 723.]

[Footnote 570: As most of its towns are white, Tunis is called The Burnous of the Prophet,
in allusion to the fact that Mohammed always wore a spotlessly white burnous.]

[Footnote 571: As suggested by M. Hartwig Derenbourg, Membre de l'Institut.]

[Footnote 572: The nominal author of the collection of Old English Tales of the same name.]

[Footnote 573: Ridiculous as this medical learning reads to-day, it is not more ridiculous
than that of the English physicians two centuries later.]

[Footnote 574: Juvenal, Satire xi.]

[Footnote 575: Religio Medici, part ii., section 9.]

[Footnote 576: We should word it "Pauline Christianity."

[Footnote 577: Arabian Nights, Lib. Ed., vii., 161.]

[Footnote 578: See the example we give in 160 about Moseilema and the bald head.]

[Footnote 579: Also called The Torch of Pebble Strown River Beds, a title explained by the
fact that in order to traverse with safety the dried Tunisian river beds, which abound in sharp
stones, it is advisable, in the evening time, to carry a torch.]

[Footnote 580: Mohammed, of course.]

[Footnote 581: It contained 283 pages of text, 15 pages d'avis au lecteur, 2 portraits, 13
hors testes on blue paper, 43 erotic illustrations in the text, and at the end of the book
about ten pages of errata with an index and a few blank leaves.]

[Footnote 582: He also refers to it in his Arabian Nights, Lib. Ed., vol. viii., p. 121, footnote.]

[Footnote 583: See Chapter xxvi.]

[Footnote 584: But, of course, the book was not intended for the average Englishman, and every
precaution was taken, and is still taken, to prevent him from getting it.]

[Footnote 585: Court fool of Haroun al Rashid. Several anecdotes of Bahloul are to be found
in Jami's Beharistan.]

[Footnote 586: A tale that has points in common with the lynching stories from the United States.
In the Kama Shastra edition the negro is called "Dorerame."

[Footnote 587: Chapter ii. Irving spells the name Moseilma.]

[Footnote 588: Chapter ii. Sleath's Edition, vol. vi., 348.]

[Footnote 589: It must be remembered that the story of Moseilema and Sedjah has been handed
down to us by Moseilema's enemies.]

[Footnote 590: The struggle between his followers and those of Mohammed was a fight to the
death. Mecca and Yamama were the Rome and Carthage of the day--the mastery of the religious
as well as of the political world being the prize.]

[Footnote 591: As spelt in the Kama Shastra version.]

[Footnote 592: Burton's spelling. We have kept to it throughout this book. The word is generally
spelt Nuwas.]

[Footnote 593: The 1886 edition, p. 2.]

[Footnote 594: Vol. i., p. 117.]

[Footnote 595: Cf. Song of Solomon, iv., 4. "Thy neck is like the Tower of David."

[Footnote 596: See Burton's remarks on the negro women as quoted in Chapter ix., 38.]

[Footnote 597: Women blacken the inside of the eyelids with it to make the eyes look larger
and more brilliant.]

[Footnote 598: So we are told in the Introduction to the Kama Shastra edition of Chapters i.
to xx. Chapter xxi. has not yet been translated into any European language. Probably Burton
never saw it. Certainly he did not translate it.]

[Footnote 599: From the Paris version of 1904. See Chapter xxxviii. of this book, where the
Kama Shastra version is given.]

[Footnote 600: Life, by Lady Burton, ii., 441.]

[Footnote 601: The pen name of Carl Ulrichs.]

[Footnote 602: Life, by Lady Burton, ii., 444.]

[Footnote 603: There is an article on Clerical Humorists in The Gentleman's Magazine for Feb.
1845.]

[Footnote 604: Mr. Bendall.]

[Footnote 605: On the Continent it was called "The Prince of Wales shake."

[Footnote 606: It is now in the Public Library, Camberwell.]

[Footnote 607: John Elliotson (1791-1868). Physician and mesmerist. One always connects his
name with Thackeray's Pendennis.]

[Footnote 608: A reference to a passage in Dr. Tuckey's book.]

[Footnote 609: James Braid (1795-1850) noted for his researches in Animal Magnetism.]

[Footnote 610: See Chapter xxiv, 112.]

[Footnote 611: The famous Finnish epic given to the world in 1835 by Dr. Lonnrot.]

[Footnote 612: Letter to Mr. Payne, 28th January 1890.]

[Footnote 613: As ingrained clingers to red tape and immobility.]

[Footnote 614: I give the anecdote as told to me by Dr. Baker.]

[Footnote 615: Letter of Mr. T. D. Murray to me 24th September 1904. But see Chapter xxxi.
This paper must have been signed within three months of Sir Richard's death.]

[Footnote 616: On 28th June 1905, I saw it in the priest's house at Mortlake. There is an inscription
at the back.]

[Footnote 617: Alaeddin was prefaced by a poetical dedication to Payne's Alaeddin, "Twelve
years this day,--a day of winter dreary," etc.]

[Footnote 618: See Chapter xxxiii., 156. Payne had declared that Cazotte's tales "are for the
most part rubbish."

[Footnote 619: Mr. Payne's translation of The Novels of Matteo Bandello, six vols. Published
in 1890.]

[Footnote 620: Now Professor of Sanskrit at Cambridge.]

[Footnote 621: 6th November 1889.]

[Footnote 622: Lib. Ed., vol. xii., p. 226.]

[Footnote 623: See Introduction by Mr. Smithers.]

[Footnote 624: 11th July 1905.]

[Footnote 625: We quote Lady Burton. Mr. Smithers, however, seems to have doubted whether Burton
really did write this sentence. See his Preface to the Catullus.]

[Footnote 626: A Translation by Francis D. Bryne appeared in 1905.]

[Footnote 627: I am indebted to M. Carrington for these notes.]

[Footnote 628: Unpublished.]

[Footnote 629: Dr. Schliemann died 27th December, 1890.]

[Footnote 630: Not the last page of the Scented Garden, as she supposed (see Life, vol. ii.,
p. 410), for she tells us in the Life (vol. ii., p. 444) that the MS. consisted of only 20
chapters.]

[Footnote 631: Told me by Dr. Baker.]

[Footnote 632: Life, ii., 409.]

[Footnote 633: Communicated by Mr. P. P. Cautley, the Vice-Consul of Trieste.]

[Footnote 634: Asher's Collection of English Authors. It is now in the Public Library at Camberwell.]

[Footnote 635: She herself says almost as much in the letters written during this period. See
Chapter xxxix., 177. Lent me by Mr. Mostyn Pryce.]

[Footnote 642: Unpublished.]

[Footnote 643: See Chapter xiv, 63.]

[Footnote 644: See The Land of Midian Revisited, ii., 223, footnote.]

[Footnote 645: The Lusiads, Canto ii., Stanza 113.]

[Footnote 646: She impressed them on several of her friends. In each case she said, "I particularly
wish you to make these facts as public as possible when I am gone."

[Footnote 647: We mean illiterate for a person who takes upon herself to write, of this even
a cursory glance through her books will convince anybody.]

[Footnote 648: For example, she destroyed Sir Richard's Diaries. Portions of these should certainly
have been published.]

[Footnote 649: Some of them she incorporated in her "Life" of her husband, which contains at
least 60 pages of quotations from utterly worthless documents.]

[Footnote 650: I am told that it is very doubtful whether this was a bona fide offer; but Lady
Burton believed it to be so.]

[Footnote 651: Romance of Isabel Lady Burton, vol. ii., p. 725.]

[Footnote 652: The Romance of Isabel Lady Burton.]

[Footnote 653: Lady Burton, owing to a faulty translation, quite mistook Nafzawi's meaning.
She was thinking of the concluding verse as rendered in the 1886 edition, which runs as follows:--

   "I certainly did wrong to put this book together,
    But you will pardon me, nor let me pray in vain;
    O God! award no punishment for this on judgment day!
    And thou, O reader, hear me conjure thee to say, So be it!"

But the 1904 and, more faithful edition puts it very differently. See Chapter xxxiv.]

[Footnote 654: An error, as we have shown.]

[Footnote 655: Mr. T. Douglas Murray, the biographer of Jeanne d'Arc and Sir Samuel Baker,
spent many years in Egypt, where he met Burton. He was on intimate terms of friendship with
Gordon, Grant, Baker and De Lesseps.]

[Footnote 656: Written in June 1891.]

[Footnote 657: Life, ii., p. 450.]

[Footnote 658: It would have been impossible to turn over half-a-dozen without noticing some
verses.]

[Footnote 659: We have seen only the first volume. The second at the time we went to press
had not been issued.]

[Footnote 660: See Chapter xxxiv.]

[Footnote 661: The Kama Shastra edition.]

[Footnote 662: See Chapter xxvi.]

[Footnote 663: She often used a typewriter.]

[Footnote 664: The same may be said of Lady Burton's Life of her husband. I made long lists
of corrections, but I became tired; there were too many. I sometimes wonder whether she troubled
to read the proofs at all.]

[Footnote 665: His edition of Catullus appeared in 1821 in 2 vols. 12 mos.]

[Footnote 666: Poem 67. On a Wanton's Door.]

[Footnote 667: Poem 35. Invitation to Caecilius.]

[Footnote 668: Poem 4. The Praise of his Pinnance.]

[Footnote 669: Preface to the 1898 Edition of Lady Burton's Life of Sir Richard Burton.]

[Footnote 670: In her Life of Sir Richard, Lady Burton quotes only a few sentences from these
Diaries. Practically she made no use of them whatever. For nearly all she tells us could have
been gleaned from his books.]

[Footnote 671: In the church may still be seen a photograph of Sir Richard Burton taken after
death, and the words quoted, in Lady Burton's handwriting, below. She hoped one day to build
a church at Ilkeston to be dedicated to our Lady of Dale. But the intention was never carried
out. See Chapter xxxi.]

[Footnote 672: See Chapter xxxvii, 172.]

[Footnote 673: It must be remembered that Canon Wenham had been a personal friend of both Sir
Richard and Lady Burton. See Chapter xxxvi., 169.]

[Footnote 674: This letter will also be found in The Romance of Isabel Lady Burton, ii., 722.]

[Footnote 675: All my researches corroborate this statement of Lady Burton's. Be the subject
what it might, he was always the genuine student.]

[Footnote 676: "It is a dangerous thing, Lady Burton," said Mr. Watts-Dunton to her, "to destroy
a distinguished man's manuscripts, but in this case I think you did quite rightly."

[Footnote 677: Miss Stisted, Newgarden Lodge, 22, Manor Road, Folkestone.]

[Footnote 678: 67, Baker Street, Portman Square.]

[Footnote 679: True Life, p. 415.]

[Footnote 680: Frontispiece to this volume.]

[Footnote 681: The picture now at Camberwell.]

[Footnote 682: Now at Camberwell.]

[Footnote 683: To Dr. E. J. Burton, 23rd March 1897.]

[Footnote 684: I think this expression is too strong. Though he did not approve of the Catholic
religion as a whole, there were features in it that appealed to him.]

[Footnote 685: 14th January 1896, to Mrs. E. J. Burton.]

[Footnote 686: Sir Richard often used to chaff her about her faulty English and spelling. Several
correspondents have mentioned this. She used to retort good-humouredly by flinging in his face
some of his own shortcomings.]

[Footnote 687: Unpublished letter.]

[Footnote 688: Payne, i., 63. Burton Lib. Ed., i., 70.]

[Footnote 689: Unpublished letter.]

[Footnote 690: Lady Burton included only the Nights Proper, not the Supplementary Tales.]

[Footnote 691: The Romance of Isabel Lady Burton, ii., 763.]

[Footnote 692: Holywell Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.]

[Footnote 693: Left unfinished. Mr. Wilkins incorporated the fragment in The Romance of Isabel
Lady Burton.]

[Footnote 694: Huxley died 29th June 1895.]

[Footnote 695: Mrs. FitzGerald died 18th January 1902, and is buried under the Tent at Mortlake.
Mrs. Van Zeller is still living. I had the pleasure of hearing from her in 1905.]

[Footnote 696: She died in 1904.]

[Footnote 697: Or Garden of Purity, by Mirkhond. It is a history of Mohammed and his immediate
successors.]

[Footnote 698: Part 3 contains the lives of the four immediate successors of Mohammed.]

[Footnote 699: Now Madame Nicastro.]

[Footnote 700: Letter of Miss Daisy Letchford to me. 9th August, 1905.]

[Footnote 701: See Midsummer Night's Dream, iii., 2.]

[Footnote 702: Close of the tale of "Una El Wujoud and Rose in Bud."

[Footnote 703: These lines first appeared in The New Review, February 1891. We have to thank
Mr. Swinburne for kindly permitting us to use them.]

[Footnote 704: Two islands in the middle of the Adriatic.]

[Footnote 705: J.A.I. Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland.]

[Footnote 706: T.E.S.--Transactions of the Ethnological Society of London. New Series.]

[Footnote 707: A.R.--Anthropological Review.]

[Footnote 708: A.R. iv. J.A.S.--Fourth vol. of the Anthropological Review contained in the
Journal of the Anthropological Society.]

[Footnote 709: Anthrop. Anthropologia--the Organ of the London Anthropological Society.]

[Footnote 710: M.A.S. Memoirs read before the Anthropological Society of London.]

[Footnote 711: The titles of the volumes of original poetry are in italics. The others are
those of translations.]

[Footnote 712: Zohra--the name of the planet Venus. It is sometimes given to girls.]