I regret that I am unable to offer any information in answer to "Mr. P. Collier's" inquiry
(No. 13. p. 200.) respecting the existence of a perfect or imperfect copy of a poem by William
Basse on the Death of Prince Henry, printed at Oxford by Joseph Barnes, 1613, and am only aware
of such a poem from the slight mention of it by Sir Harris Nicolas in his beautiful edition
of Walton's Complete Angler, p. 422. But as the possessor of the 4to. MS. volume of poems by
Basse, called Polyhymnia, formerly belonging to Mr. Heber, I feel greatly interested in endeavouring
to obtain some further biographical particulars of Basse,--of whom, although personally known
to Isaac Walton, the author of one or two printed volumes of poems, and of the excellent old
songs of "the Hunter in his Career" and "Tom of Bedlam," and worthy of having his verses on
Shakspeare inserted among his collected poems, yet the notices we at present possess are exceedingly
slight. We learn from Anth. Wood, in his Ath. Oxon., vol. iv. p. 222., that Basse was a native
of Moreton, near Thame in Oxfordshire, and was for some time a retainer of Sir Richard Wenman,
Knt., afterwards Viscount Wenman, in the peerage of Ireland. He seems also to have been attached
to the noble family of Norreys of Ricot in Oxfordshire, which is not far from Thame; and addressed
some verses to Francis Lord Norreys, Earl of Berkshire, from which I quote one or two stanzas,
and in the last of which there is an allusion to the [plainness of the] author's personal appearance:

  "O true nobilitie, and rightly grac'd
  With all the jewels that on thee depend,
  Where goodnesse doth with greatnesse live embrac'd,
  And outward stiles, on inward worth attend.
  Where ample lands, in ample hands are plac'd
  And ancient deeds, with ancient coats descend:
    Where noble bloud combin'd with noble spirit
    Forefathers fames, doth with their formes inherit.

  "Where ancestors examples are perus'd
  Not in large tomes, or costly tombs alone,
  But in their heires: and being dayly us'd
  Are (like their robes) more honourable growne, {296}
  Where Loyalty with Piety is infus'd,
  And publique rights are cherish'd w'th their owne;
    Where worth still finds respect, good friend, good word,
    Desart, reward. And such is Ricot's Lord.

  "But what make I (vaine voyce) in midst of all
  The Quires that have already sung the fame
  Of this great House, and those that henceforth shall
  (As that will last) for ever sing the same.
  But, if on me, my garland instly fall,
  I justly owe my musique to this name.
    For he unlawfully usurps the Bayes
    That has not sung in noble Norrey's prayse.

  "In playne (my honour'd Lord) I was not borne,
  Audacious vowes, or forraigne legs to use,
  Nature denyed my outside to adorne,
  And I, of art to learne outsides refuse.
  Yet haveing of them both, enough to scorne
  Silence, & vulgar prayse, this humble muse
    And her meane favourite; at yo'r comand
    Chose in this kinde, to kisse your noble hand."

His Polyhymnia is dedicated to the sister of this person, the Lady Bridget, Countess of Lindsey,
and Baroness of Eresbie and of Ricot. Besides the "Anglers' Song" made at Walton's request,
and the before-mentioned two songs, which are given at length in the Appendix to the Complete
Angler, p. 420., Sir H. Nicolas's edit., besides these, and the verses "on William Shakespeare,
who died in April, 1616," sometimes called "Basse his Elegie on Shakespeare," which appear
in the edition of Shakespeare's Poems of 1640, 8vo., and are reprinted in Malone's edition
of his Plays, vol. i. p. 470.: another poem by William Basse will be found in the collection
entitled Annalia Dubrensia, upon the Yearely Celebration of Mr. Robert Dover's Olympick Games
upon Cotswold Hills, 4to. 1636. This consists of ten stanzas, of eight lines each, "To the
noble and fayre Assemblies, the harmonious concourse of Muses, and their Ioviall entertainer,
my right generous Friend, Master Robert Dover, upon Cotswold." Basse was also, as Mr. Collier
remarks, the author of a poem, which I have never seen, called Sword and Buckler, or Serving
Man's Defence, in six-line stanzas, 4to. Lond., imprinted in 1602. A copy of this was sold
in Steevens's sale, No. 767., and is now among "Malone's Collection of Early Poetry" in the
Bodleian Library at Oxford. And, according to Ritson, he wrote another work, published in the
same year, viz. Three Pastorall Elegies of Anander, Anytor and Muridella, entered to Joseph
Barnes, 28 May, 1692, of which I am not aware that any copy is now in existence. These, with
the addition of Great Brittaines Sunnes-set, bewailed with a Shower of Teares, at Oxford, printed
by Joseph Barnes, 1613, the fragment of which is in the possession of Mr. Collier, appear,
as far as I can yet ascertain, to be the only known publications of William Basse, with his
name attached to them in full. Other works, however, have been attributed to him from the similarity
of the initials,--but most of them probably without much foundation; viz. 1. Scacchia Ludus:
Chesse-play: a poetical translation of Vida's poem at the end of Ludus Sacchiæ, Chesse-Play,
by W.B. 4to. Lond. 1597; by Ritson. 2. A Helpe to Discourse; or a Miscelany of Merriment, by
W.B. and E.P. 2nd edit. 8vo. Lond. 1620; by Mr. Malone. And 3. That which seemes Best is Worst,
exprest in a Paraphrastical Transcript of Iuuenals tenth Satyre. Together with the Tragicall
Narration of Virginius Death interserted, by W.B. small 8vo. Lond.; imprinted by Felix Kyngston,
1617, by Mr. Octavius Gilchrist, who however rather leans to the opinion of William Barkstead
being the author, from the circumstance of his having, as early as 1607, paraphrased, much
in a similar way, the interesting tale of Myrrha, the mother of Adonis, from the 10th Book
of the Metamorphoses. (See Restitutu, vol. i. p. 41.)

Cole, in his MS. Collectanea for Athenæ Cantabrigiensis, says:

    "Mr. Knight, jun. shewed me a MS. written by William Basse, and
    corrected by him, in 4to., called Polyhymnia.--Dedication. To
    the Right Noble and vertuous Lady, the Lady Bridget, Countess of
    Lindsey, and Baroness of Eresbie and Ricot, in verse, with
    Verses to the Right Hon. Francis Lord Norreys, Earl of Berkshire
    (in his days). To the Right Hon. the Lady Aungier (then wife of
    Sir Thos. Wenman) upon her coming out of Ireland and return
    thither. To the Right Hon. the lady Viscountess Falkland, upon
    her going into Ireland, two Sonnets. The Youth in the Boat.
    Acrostics of the truly noble, vertuous, and learned Lady, the
    Lady Agnes Wenman; of the Lady Penelope Dynham; of Mrs. Jane
    Wenman. Verses on the Chapel of Wadham College consecration, St.
    Peter's Day, 1613; on Caversham or Causham House; of Witham
    House, Oxfordshire, the house of a noble Knight, and favourer of
    my Muse; and Elegy on a Bullfinch, 1648; of the Four Mile Course
    of Bayaides Green, six times run over, by two famous Irish
    footmen, Patrick Dorning and William O'Farrell.--It contains
    about 40 leaves, much corrected, and at the end is 'L'Envoy':--

      "'Go, sweet Polymnia, thanks for all your cost
      And love to me; wherein no love is lost.
      As you have taught me various verse to use,
      I have to right you to be a Christian Muse.'"

I have been thus particular in transcribing this passage from Cole, because this copy, mentioned
as being in the possession of Mr. Knight, jun. (quere, where is it now?), varies from mine,
obtained from Mr. Heber's Collection, and was no doubt the one prepared and corrected for the
press by Basse.

My copy, however, contains the following poems, not mentioned in the other:--

    "Of a Great Floud; of the Raine-bowe; of Pen and Pensill, upon a
    fayre and vertuous Ladye's Picture; and the Spirituall Race."

The MS. contains 52 leaves, beautifully written without any corrections, and is in the original
binding. It was procured by Mr. Heber from Hanwell, the Bookseller in Oxford, who had probably
purchased it on the taking down of Ricot, the old seat of the Norreys family, and the dispersion
of its contents. It has the autograph of Francis Lord Norreys on the fly-leaf, and was no doubt
a presentation copy to him from Basse. The poetry of this work does not rise above mediocrity,
and is not equal in thought or vigour to the Epitaph on Shakspeare. The chief portion of the
volume is occupied with the singular tale of "The Youth in the Boat," which is divided into
two parts; the first, containing (with the introduction) 59 verses of four lines each, and
the second 163, exclusive of the "Morall," which occupies 11 more.

We know that it was Basse's intention to have published these poems, from some lines addressed
by Dr. Ralph Bathurst "To Mr. W. Basse upon the intended publication of his poems, January
13. 1651," which are given in Warton's Life and Literary Remains of Dean Bathurst, 8vo. 1761,
p. 288. In these lines the Dean compares Basse, who was still living, "to an aged oak," and says:--

  "Though thy grey Muse grew up with elder times,
  And our deceased Grandsires lisp'd thy rhymes,
  Yet we can sing thee too."

From these lines, therefore, written nearly 50 years after the publication of his former works
in 1602, when we may reasonably suppose he could not have been under 20, it is certain that
Basse was then well stricken in years; and the probability is, that he died very shortly afterwards,
and that this was the reason of the non-publication of his poems. It is possible that a search
into the registers at Thame or that neighbourhood, or in the court at Oxford, might settle
this point, and also furnish some further information concerning his family and connections.
Cole mentions that a person of both his names was admitted a sizar in Emanuel College, Cambridge,
in 1629, of Suffolk, and took his degree of B.A. in 1632 and M.A. in 1636. But this was too
modern a date for our poet, and might possibly be his son.

I have been informed that in Winchester College library, in a 4to. volume, there are some poems
by Mr. William Basse; but the title of the volume I have not been able to obtain.

Mr. Collier concludes his remarks, with a supposition that Basse "was a musical composer, as
well as writer of verses." I believe Mr. C. to be right in this notion, from a passage which
I find in the commencement of the 2nd Part of "The Youth in the Boat," where, alluding to "sweete
Calliope," he remarks:--

  "A Muse to whom in former dayes
    I was extremely bound,
  When I did sing in Musiques prayse,
    And Voyces heau'nly sound."

And from the circumstance also of one of the Ballads in the Roxburghe Collection, "Wit's never
good till 'tis bought," being sung to the tune of "Basse's Carreere." Mr. Collier has reprinted
this in his elegant Book of Roxburghe Ballads, 4to. 1847, p. 264., and says:--

    "The tune to which is sung, 'Basse's Carreere,' means of course,
    the tune mentioned in Walton's Angler, 'The Hunter in his
    Career,' composed, as he states by William Basse."

I have a distant recollection of having seen other pieces in some of our early musical works,
composed by Basse. Sir Harris Nicolas, also, in the "Life of Walton," prefixed to his edition
of The Complete Angler, p. cxx., says:--

    "He (Walton) appears to have been fond of poetry and music....
    and was intimate with Basse, an eminent composer, in whose
    science he took great interest."

