"I'm afraid you don't know how to respect great men!" she said laughing, as they drew out of
the shadow of the Italian garden with its clipped yews and cypresses, and reached a broad terrace
whence the undulations of the park stretched westward and upward into the purple fissures and
clefts of the mountains. Trees, fells, grass were steeped in a wan, gold light, a mingling
of sunset and moonrise. The sky was clear; the gradations of colour on the hills ethereally
distinct. From a clump of trees came a soft hooting of owls; and close behind them a tall hedge
of roses red and white made a bower for Lydia's light form, and filled the night with perfume.

"What do great men matter?" said Tatham incoherently as they paused; "what does anything matter--but--Lydia!"

It was a cry of pain. A hand groped for hers. Lydia startled, looked up to see the face of
Tatham looking down upon her through the warm dusk--transfigured.

"You'll let me speak, won't you? I daresay it's much too soon--I daresay you can't think of
it--yet. But I love you. I love you so dearly! I can't keep it to myself. I have--ever since
I first saw you. You won't be angry with me for speaking? You won't think I took you by surprise?
I don't want to hurry you--I only want you to know--"

Emotion choked him. Lydia, after a murmur he couldn't catch, hid her face in her hands.

He waited; and already there crept through him the dull sense of disaster. The impulse to speak
had been irresistible, and now--he wished he had not spoken.

At last she looked up.

"Oh, you have been so good to me--so sweet to me," and before he knew what she was doing, she
had lifted one of his hands in her two slender ones and touched it with her lips.

Outraged--enchanted--bewildered--he tried to catch her in his arms. But she slipped away from
him and with her hands behind her, she looked at him, smiling through tears, her fair hair
blown back from her temples, her delicate face alive with feeling.

"I can't say yes--it wouldn't be honest if I did--it wouldn't be fair to you. But, oh, dear,
I'm so sorry--so dreadfully sorry--if it's my fault--if I've misled you. I thought I'd tried
hard to show what I really felt--that I wanted to be friends--but not--not this. Dear Lord
Tatham, I do like and admire you so much--but--"

"You don't want to marry me!" he said bitterly, turning away.

She paused a moment.

"No"--the word came with soft decision--"no. And if I were to marry you without--without that
feeling--you have a right to--I should be doing wrong--to you--and to myself. You see"--she
looked down, the points of her white shoe drawing circles on the grass, as though to help out
her faltering speech--"I--I'm not what I believe you think me. I've got all sorts of hard,
independent notions in my mind. I want to paint--and study--and travel--I want to be free--"

"You should be free as air!" he interrupted passionately.

"Ah, but no!--not if I married. I shouldn't want to be free in that way, if--"

"If you were in love? I understand. And you're not in love with me. Why should you be?" said
poor Tatham, with a new and desperate humility. "Why on earth should you be? But I'd adore
you--I'd give you anything in the world you wanted."

Sounds of talking and footsteps emerged from the dusk behind them; the high notes of Lady Barbara,
and the answering bass of Delorme.

"Don't let them find us," said Lydia impetuously--"I've so much to say."

Tatham turned, and led the way to the pillared darkness of a pergola to their left. One side
of it was formed by a high yew hedge; on the other, its rose-twined arches looked out upon
the northern stretches of the park, and on the garden front of Duddon. There it lay, the great
house, faintly lit; and there in front stretched its demesne, symbol of its ancient rule and
of its modern power. A natural excitement passed through Lydia as they paused, and she caught
its stately outline through the night. And then, the tameless something in her soul, which
was her very self, rose up, rejoicing in its own strength, and yet--wistful, full of tenderness.
Now!--let her play her stroke--her stroke in the new great game that was to be, in the new
age, between men and women.

"Why shouldn't we just be friends?" she urged. "I know it sounds an old, stale thing to say.
But it isn't. There's a new meaning in it now, because--because women are being made new. It
used to be offering what we couldn't give. We could be lovers; we weren't good enough--we hadn't
stuff enough--to be friends. But now--dear Lord Tatham--just try me--" She held out to him
two hands, which he took against his will. "I like you so much!--I know that I should love
your mother. Now that we've had this out, why shouldn't we build up something quite fresh?
I want a friend--so badly!"

"And I want something--so much more than a friend!" he said, pressing her hands fiercely.

"Ah, but give it up!" she pleaded. "If you can't, I mustn't come here any more, nor you to
us. And why? It would be such a waste--of what our friendship might be. You could teach me
so many things. I think I could teach you some."

He dropped her hands, mastering himself with difficulty.

"It's nonsense," he said shortly; "I know it's nonsense! But--if I promised not to say anything
of this kind again for a year?"

She pondered. There were compunctions, remorses, in her. As Susan had warned her, was she playing
with a man's heart and life?

But her trust in her own resources, the zest of spiritual adventure, and a sheer longing to
comfort him prevailed.

"You'll promise that; and I'll promise--just to be as nice to you as ever I can!" She paused.
They looked at each other; the trouble in his eyes questioning the smile in hers. "Now please!--my
friend!"--she slid dexterously, though very softly, into the everyday tone--"will you advise
me? Mr. Delorme has asked me to sit to him. Just a sketch in the garden--for a picture he's
at work on. You would like me to accept?"

She stood before him, her eyes raised, with the frank gentleness of a child. Yet there was
a condition implied in the question.

Tatham broke out--passionately,

"Just tell me. There's--there's no one else?"

She suffered for him; she hastened to comfort him.

"No, no--indeed there's no one else. Though, mind, I'm free. And so are you. Shall I come to-morrow?"
she asked again, with quiet insistence.

There was a gulp in Tatham's throat. Yet he rose--dismally--to her challenge.

"You would do what I like?" he asked, quivering.

"Indeed I would."

"I invited Delorme here--just to please you--and because I hoped he'd paint you."

"Then that's settled!" she said, with a little sigh of satisfaction.

"And what, please, am I to do--that you'd like?" She looked up mischievously.

"Call me Lydia--forget that you ever wanted to marry me--and don't mind a rap what people say!"

He laughed, through his pain, and gravely took her hand.

"And now," said Lydia, "I think it's time to go home."

       *       *       *       *       *

When all the guests were gone, when Gerald and Delorme had smoked their last interminable cigars,
and Delorme had made his last mocking comments on the "old masters" who adorned the smoking-room,
Tatham saw him safely to bed, and returned to his sitting-room on the ground floor. The French
window was open, and he passed out into the garden. Soon, in his struggle with himself, he
had left the garden and the park behind, and was climbing the slope of the fells. The play
of the soft summer winds under the stars, the scents of bracken and heather and rushes, the
distant throbbing sounds that rose from the woods as the wind travelled through them--and soon,
the short mountain turf beneath his feet, and around and below him, the great shapes of the
hills, mysteriously still, and yet, as it seemed to him, mysteriously alive--these things spoke
to him and, little by little, calmed his blood.

It was the first anguish of a happy man. When, presently, he lay safe hidden in a hollow of
the lonely fell, face downward among the moonlit rocks, some young and furious tears fell upon
the sod. That quiet strength of will in so soft a creature--a will opposed to his will--had
brought him up against the unyieldingness of the world. The joyous certainties of life were
shaken to their base; and yet he could not, he did not, cease to hope.

XI

Victoria was sitting to Delorme in a corner of the Italian garden. He wished to paint her en
plein air, and he was restlessly walking to and fro, about her, choosing a point of view. Victoria
was vaguely pleased by the picturesqueness of his lion head set close on a pair of powerful
shoulders, no less than by the vivacity of his dark face and southern gesture. He wore a linen
jacket with bulging pockets, and a black skullcap, which gave him a masterful, pontifical air.
To Victoria's thinking, indeed, he "pontified" at all times, a great deal more than was necessary.

However she sat resigned. She did not like Delorme, and her preference was all for another
school of art. She had moreover a critical respect for her own features, and she did not want
at all to see them rendered by what seemed to her the splashing violence of Delorme's brushwork.
But Harry had asked it of her, and here she was.

Her thoughts, moreover, were full of Harry's affairs, so that the conversation between her
and the painter was more or less pretence on her part.

Delorme, meanwhile, was divided between the passion of a new subject and the wrath excited
in him by a newspaper article which had reached him at breakfast.

"A little more to the left, please, Lady Tatham. Admirable! One moment!" The scrabble of charcoal
on paper.

Delorme stepped back. Victoria sat languidly passive.

"Did you read that article on me in The Weekly? The man's a fool!--knows nothing, and writes
like God Almighty. A little more full face. That's it! I suppose all professions are full of
these jealous beasts. Ours is cluttered up with them--men who never sell a picture, and make
up by living on the compliments of their own little snarling set. But, upon my word, it makes
one rather sick. Ah, that's good! You moved a trifle--that's better--just a moment!"

"I'm glad you let me sit," said Victoria absently. "I stood to Whistler once. It nearly killed me."

"Ah, Jimmy!" said Delorme. "Jimmy was a Tartar!"

He went off at score into recollections of Whistler, drawing hard all the time.

Victoria did not listen. She was thinking of those sounds of footsteps she had heard under
her window at dawn, and passing her room. This morning Harry looked as usual, except for something
in the eyes, which none but she would notice. What had he been doing all those hours? There
was nothing erratic or abnormal about Harry. Sound sleep from the moment he put his head on
his pillow to the moment at eight o'clock when his servant with great difficulty woke him,
was the rule with him.

What could have happened the night before--while he and Lydia Penfold were alone together?
Victoria had seen them come back into the general company, had indeed been restlessly on the
watch for their return. It had seemed to her--though how be sure in that mingled light?--both
at the moment of their reappearance and afterward, that Harry was somewhat unusually pale and
quiet, while the girl's look had struck her as singular--exalteé--the eyes shining--yet the
manner composed and sweet as usual. She already divined the theorist in Lydia, the speculator
with life and conduct. "But not with my Harry!" thought the mother, fiercely.

But how could she prevent it? What could she do? What can any mother do when the wave of energy--spiritual
and physical--has risen or is rising to its height in the young creature, and the only question
is how and where it shall break; in crash and tempest, or in a summer sea?

Delorme suddenly raised his great head from his easel.

"That was a delicious creature that sat by me last night."

"Miss Penfold? She is one of your devotees."

"She paints, so she said. Mon Dieu! Why do women paint?"

Victoria, roused, hotly defended the right of her sex to ply any honest art in the world that
might bring them either pleasure or money.

"Mais la peinture!" Delorme's shoulder shrugged still higher. "It is an infernal thing, milady,
painting. What can a woman make of it? She can only unsex herself. And in the end--what she
produces--what is it?"

"If it pays the rent--isn't that enough?"

"But a young girl like that! What, in God's name, has she do to with paying the rent? Let her
dance and sing--have a train of lovers--look beautiful!"

"The whole duty of woman!" laughed Victoria with a touch of scorn; "for our grandmothers."

"No: for all time," said Delorme stoutly. "Ask milord." He looked toward the house, and Victoria
saw Tatham emerging. But she had no intention whatever of asking him. She rose hastily, excused
herself on the score of needing a few minutes' rest, and went to meet her son.

"I forgot to tell you, mother," he said, as they approached each other, "Faversham's coming
this afternoon. I had a letter from him this morning. He seems to be trying to make the old
man behave."

"I shall be glad to see him."

Struck by something lifeless and jaded in the voice she loved, Victoria shot a glance at her
son, then slipped her hand into his arm, and walked back with him to his library.

He sat down silently to his books and papers. A couple of official reports lay open, and Victoria
knew that he was going to an important county meeting that evening, where he was to be in the
chair. Many older men, men who had won their spurs in politics or business, would be there,
and it was entirely by their wish--their kindly wish--that Harry would take the lead. They
desired to see him treading in the steps of his forefathers.

Perched on the end of his writing table, she watched her son a moment. It seemed to her she
saw already what the young face would be like when it was old. A pang struck her.

"Harry--is there anything wrong?"

He looked up quite simply and stretched his hand to her.

"I asked her to marry me last night."

"Well?" The colour rushed into the mother's face.

"No go. She doesn't love me. She wants us to be friends."

Victoria gasped.

"But she's coming to sit to Delorme this afternoon!"

"Because I asked her."

"Harry, dear boy, for both your sakes--either all or nothing! If she doesn't care--break it off."

"There's nothing to break off, dearest. And don't ask me not to see her. I couldn't. Who knows?
She's got her ideas. Of course I've got mine. Perhaps--after all--I may win. Or, if not--perhaps"--he
shaded his face with his hand--"she'll show me--how not to mind. I know she wants to."

Silence a moment. Then the lad's hand dropped. He smiled at Victoria.

"Let's fall in! There's nothing else to do anyway. She's not like other girls. When she says
a thing--she means it. But so long as I can see her--I'm happy!"

"You ought to forget her!" said Victoria angrily, kissing his hair. "These things should end--one
way or the other."

He looked perplexed.

"She doesn't think so--and I'm thankful she doesn't, mother--don't say anything to her. Promise
me. She said last night--she loved you. She wants to come here. Let's give her a jolly time.
Perhaps--"

The patience in his blue eyes nearly made her cry. And there was also the jealousy that no
fond mother escapes, the commonest of all jealousies. He was passing out of her hands, this
creature of her own flesh. Till now she had moulded and shaped him. Henceforward the lightest
influence rained by this girl's eyes would mean more to him than all the intensity of her own
affection.

       *       *       *       *       *

Victoria's mind for the rest of the sitting was in a state of abstraction, and she sat so still
that Delorme was greatly pleased with her. At luncheon she was still absent-minded, and Lady
Barbara whispered in Gerald Tatham's ear that Victoria was always a poor hostess, but this
time her manners were really impossible.

"But you intend to stay a fortnight, don't you?" said Gerald, not without malice.

"If I can possibly stay it out." The reply was lofty, but the situation, as Gerald knew, was
commonplace. Lady Barbara's house in town was let for another fortnight, and Duddon's Castle
was more agreeable and more economical than either lodgings or a hotel.

Meanwhile a pair of eyes belonging to the young man whose dinner jacket and black tie had marked
him out amid the other male guests of the night before were observing matters with a more subtle
and friendly spirit behind them. Cyril Boden was a Fellow of All Souls, a journalist, an advanced
Radical, a charmer, and a fanatic. He hated no man. That indeed was the truth. But he hated
the theories and the doings of so many men, that the difference between him and the mere revolutionary
was hard to seize. He had a smooth and ruddy face, in which the eyebrows seemed to be always
rising interrogatively; longish hair; stooping shoulders, and an amiable, lazy, mocking look
that belied a nature of singular passion, always occupied with the most tremendous problems
of life, and afraid of no solution.

He had been overworking himself in the attempt to settle a dock strike, and had come to Duddon
to rest. Victoria was much attached to him in a motherly way, and he to her. They sparred a
good deal; she attacking "agitators" and "demagogues," he, fierce on "feudal tyranny," especially
when masked in the beauties and amenities of such a place as Duddon. But they were friends
all the same, exchanging the unpaid services of friends.

In the afternoon, before Lydia Penfold appeared, Boden found amusement in teasing Delorme--an
old acquaintance. Delorme was accustomed to pose in all societies as Whistler's lawful and
only successor. "Pattern" and "harmony" possessed him; "finish" was only made for fools, and
the story-teller in art was the unclean thing. His ambition, like Whistler's, was to paint
a full length in three days, and hear it hailed a masterpiece. And, like Whistler, he had no
sooner painted it than he scraped it out; which most sitters found discouraging.

Boden, meanwhile, made amends for all that was revolutionary in his politics or economics,
by reaction on two subjects--art and divorce. He had old-fashioned ideas on the family, and
did not want to see divorce made easy. And he was quaintly Ruskinian in matters of art, believing
that all art should appeal to ethical or poetic emotion.

"Boden admires a painter because he is a good man and pays his washing bills," drawled Delorme
behind his cigarette, from the lazy depths of a garden chair. "His very colours are virtues,
and his pictures must be masterpieces, because he subscribes to the Dogs' Home, and doesn't
beat his wife."

"Excellently put," said Boden, his hat on the back of his head, his eyes beginning to shine.
"Do men gather grapes off thistles?"

"Constantly. There is no relation whatever between art and morality." Delorme smoked pugnaciously.
"The greater the artist, generally speaking, the worse the man."

"I say! Really as bad as that?"

Boden waved a languid hand toward the smoke-wreathed phantom of Delorme. The circle round the
two laughed, languidly also, for it was almost too hot laugh. The circle consisted of Victoria,
Gerald Tatham, Mrs. Manisty, and Colonel Barton, who had reappeared at luncheon, in order to
urge Tatham to see Faversham as soon as possible on certain local affairs.

"Oh! I give you my head in a charger," said Delorme, not without heat. "For you, Burne-Jones
is 'pure' and I am 'decadent'; because he paints anemic knights in sham armour and I paint
what I see."

"The one absolutely fatal course! Don't you agree?"

Boden turned smiling to Mrs. Manisty, of whose lovely head and soft eyes he was conscious through
all the chatter.

The eyes responded.

"What do we see?" she said, with her shy smile. "Surely we only see what we think--or dream!"

"True!" cried Delorme; "but a painter thinks in paint."

"There you go," said Boden, "with your esoteric stuff. All your great painters have thought
and felt with the multitude--painted for the multitude."

"Never." The painter jerked away his cigar, and sat up. "The multitude is a brute beast!"

"A just beast," murmured Boden.

"Anything but!" said the painter. "But you know my views. In every generation, so far as art
is concerned, there are about thirty men who matter--in all the world!"

"Artists?" The voice was Lucy Manisty's.

"Good heavens, no! Artists--and judges--together. The gate of art is a deal straiter than the
gate of Heaven."

Boden caught Victoria's laugh.

"Let him alone," he said, indulgently. "His is the only aristocracy I can stand--with apologies
to my hostess."

"Oh, we're done for," said Victoria, quietly.

Boden turned a humorous eye, first to the great house basking in the sunshine, then to his hostess.

"Not yet. But you're doomed. As the old Yorkshireman said to his son, when they were watching
the triumphs of a lion-tamer in the travelling menagerie--that 'genelman's to be wooried soom
day.' When the real Armageddon comes, it'll not find you in possession. You'll have gone down
long before."

"Really? Then who will be in possession?" asked Gerald Tatham, a very perceptible sneer in
his disagreeable voice. He disliked Boden as one of "the infernal Radicals" whom Victoria would
inflict on the sacred precincts of Duddon, but he was generally afraid of him in conversation.

"Merely the rich"--the tone was still nonchalant--"the Haves against the Haven'ts. No nonsense
left, by that time, about 'blood' and 'family.' Society will have dropped all those little
trimmings and embroideries. We shall have come to the naked fundamental things."

"The struggle of rich and poor?" said Delorme. "Precisely. That's what all you fellows who
go and preach revolution to dockers are after. And what on earth would the world do without
wealth? Wealth is only materialized intelligence! What's wrong with it?"

"Only that we're dying of it."

The young man paused. He sat silently smoking, his eyes--unseeing--fixed upon the house. Lucy
Manisty looked at him with sympathy.

"You mean," she said, "that no one who has the power to be rich has now ever the courage to
be poor?"

He nodded, and turning to her he continued in a lower voice: "And think what's lost! Are we
all to be smothered in this paraphernalia of servants, and motor cars and gluttonous living?
There's scarcely a man--for instance--among my friends who'll dare to marry! Hundreds used
to be enough--now they must have thousands--or say their wives must. And they'll sell their
souls to get the thousands. Who's the better--who's the happier for it in the end? We have
left ourselves nothing to love with--nothing to be happy with. What does natural beauty--or
human feeling--matter to the men who spend their days speculating in the City? I know 'em.
I have watched some of them for years. It's a thirst that destroys a man. To want to be rich
is bad enough--to want to be rich quick is death and damnation ..."

There was silence again, till suddenly Boden addressed Colonel Barton, who was sitting opposite
half asleep in the sun.

"I say, what's the name of a village, about two miles from here, I walked through while you
were all at church this morning?--the most God-forsaken place I ever saw!--a horrible, insanitary
hole!"

"Mainstairs!" said Barton, promptly, waking up. "That's the only village hereabout that fits
the description. But Melrose owns two or three of them."

"The man that owns that village ought to be hung," said Boden with quiet ferocity. "In any
decent state of society he would be hung."

Barton shrugged his shoulders.

"I'm on the sanitary authority. We've summoned him till we're tired, to put those cottages
in repair. No use. Now, we've told him that we shall repair them ourselves and send in the
bill to him. That's stirred him, and he's immediately given everybody notice to quit--says
he'll close the whole village. But the people won't go. There are no other cottages for miles--they've
taken to stoning our inspectors."

"And you think our land system's going to last on these terms?" said Boden, his eyes flaming.

The little Tory opposite drew himself up.

"It's not the system--it's the man."

"The system's judged--that permits the man."

"Melrose is unique," said Barton, hotly; "we are a model county, but for the Melrose estate."

"But the exception is damning! It compromises you all. That such a place as Mainstairs should
be possible--that's the point!"

"For you Socialists, I daresay!" cried Barton. "The rest of us know better than to expect a
perfect world!"

Boden laughed, the passion dying from his face.

"Ah, well, we shall have to make you march--you fellows in possession. No hope--unless we are
'behind you with a bradawl!'"

"On the contrary! We marched before you Socialists were thought of. Who have put the bulk of
the cottages of England in repair during the last half century, I should like to know--and
built most of the new ones? The landlords of England! Who stands in the way of reform at the
present moment? The small owner. And who are the small owners? Mainly Radical tradesmen."

Boden looked at him--then queerly smiled. "I daresay. I trust no man--further than I can see
him. But if what you say is true, why don't you Conservatives--in your own interest--coerce
men like Melrose? He's giving you away, every month he exists."

"Well, Tatham's at it," said Barton quietly; "we're all at it. And there's a new agent just
appointed. Something to be hoped from him."

"Who is it?"

"You didn't hear us discussing him last night? A man called Claude Faversham."

"Claude Faversham? A tall, dark fellow--writes a little--does a little law--but mostly unemployed?
Oh, I know him perfectly. Faversham? You don't mean it!" Boden threw himself back in his chair
with a sarcastic lip, and relit his pipe. As he watched the spirals of smoke he recalled the
few incidents of his acquaintance with the young man. They had both been among the original
members of a small club in London, frequented by men of letters and junior barristers. Faversham
had long since dropped out of the club, and was now the companion, so Boden understood, of
much richer men, and a great frequenter of the Stock Exchange, where money is mysteriously
made without working for it. That fact alone was enough for Cyril Boden. He felt an instinctive,
almost a fanatical, antipathy toward the new agent. On the one side the worshippers of the
Unbought and the Unpriced; on the other Mammon and all his troop. It was so that Boden habitually
envisaged his generation. It was so, and by no other test, that he divided the sheep from the
goats.

Meanwhile, Lydia Penfold, driving a diminutive pony, was slowly approaching the castle through
the avenue of splendid oaks which led up to it. Faversham was walking beside her. He had overtaken
her at the beginning of the avenue, and had sent on his motor that he might have the pleasure
of her society.

The daintiness of her white dress, with all its pretty details, the touch of blue in her hat,
and at her waist, delighted his eyes. It pleased him that there was not a trace in her of Bohemian
carelessness in these respects. Everything was simple, but everything was considered. She knew
her own beauty; that was clear. It gave her self-possession; but, so far as he could see, without
a trace of conceit. He had never met a young girl with whom he could talk so easily.

She had greeted him with her most friendly smile. But it seemed to him nevertheless that she
was a little pensive and overcast.

"You dined here last night?" he asked her. "Did the lion roar properly?"

"Magnificently. You weren't there?"

"No. Undershaw put down his foot. I shan't submit much longer!"

"You're really getting strong?"

Her kind eyes considered him. He had often marveled that one so young should be mistress of
such a look--so softly frank and unafraid.

"A Hercules! Besides, the work's so interesting, one's no time to think of one's game leg!"

"You're getting to know the estate?"

"I've been motoring about it for a fortnight, that's something for a beginning. And I've got
plenty of things to tell you."

He plunged into them. It was evident that he was resuming topics familiar to them both. Their
talk indeed showed them already intimate, sharers in a common enterprise, where she was often
inspiration, and he executive and practical force. Ever since, indeed, she had said to him
with that kindled, eager look--"Accept! Accept!"--he had been sharply aware of how best to
approach, to attract her. She was, it seemed, no mere passive girl. She was in her measure
a thinker--a character. He perceived in her--deep down--enthusiasms and compassions, that seemed
often as though they shook her beyond her strength. They made him uncomfortable; they were
strange to his own mind; and yet they moved and influenced him. During the short time, for
instance, that she had lived in their midst, she had made friends everywhere--so he discovered--among
these Cumbria folk. She never harangued about them; a few words, a few looks, burning from
an inward fire--these expressed her: as when, twice, he had met her at dusk, with the aspect
of a wounded spirit, coming out of hovels that he himself must now be ashamed of, since they
were Melrose's hovels.

"I've just come from Mainstairs," he said to her abruptly, as the house in front drew nearer.

The colour rushed into Lydia's cheeks.

"Are you going to put that right?"

"I'm going to try. I've been talking to your old friend Dobbs. I saw his poor daughter, and
I went into most of the cottages."

Somewhat to his dismay he saw the delicate face beside him quiver, and the eyes cloud. But
the emotion was driven back.

"You're too late--for Bessie!" she said--how sadly! The accent touched him.

"The girl is really dying? Was it diphtheria?"

"She has been dying for months--and in such pain."

"It is paralysis?"

"After diphtheria. Did they show you the graves in the churchyard?--they call it the Innocents'
Corner. Thirty children died in that village last year and the year before."

There was silence a little.

"I wonder what I can do," said Faversham, at last, reflectively. "I have been working out a
number of new proposals--and I submit them to Mr. Melrose to-night."

She looked wistfully at the speaker.

"Good luck! But Mr. Melrose is hard to move."

Faversham assented.

"The hope lies in his being now an old man--and anxious to get rid of responsibilities. I shall
try to show him that bad citizenship costs more money than good."

"I hope--oh! I hope--you'll succeed!" she said fervently. Her emotion infected him. He smiled
down upon her.

"That ought to make me succeed! But of course I have no experience. I am a townsman."

"You've always been a Londoner?"

"Practically, always. But I was tired of London before all this happened--dying to get out of it."

And he began a short account of himself, more intimate than any he had yet given her; to which
Lydia listened with her open, friendly look, perhaps a little shyer than before. And so different,
instinctively, is the way in which a man will tell his story to a woman, from that in which
he tells it to a man, that the same half-ironic, half-bitter narrative which had repelled Tatham,
attracted Lydia. Her sympathy rose at once to meet it. He was an orphan, and till now lonely
and unsuccessful; tormented, too, by unsatisfied ideals and ambitions. Her imagination was
pitiful and quick; she imagined she understood. She liked his frankness; it flattered and touched
her. She liked his deep rich voice, and his dark face, with its lean strength, and almost southern
colour. During his illness he had grown a small peaked beard, and it pleased her artistic sense,
by giving him a look of Cardinal Richelieu--as that great man stood figured in an old French
print she had picked up once in a box on the Paris quays. Moreover his friendship offered her
so much fresh knowledge of the world and life. Here, again, was comradeship. She was lucky
indeed. Harry Tatham--and now this clever, interesting man, entering on his task. It was a
great responsibility. She would not fail either of her new friends! They knew--she had made--she
would make it quite plain, that she was not setting her cap at either. Wider insights, fresh
powers, honourable, legitimate powers, for her sex--it was these she was after.

In all all this Lydia was perfectly sincere. But the Comic Spirit sitting aloft took note.

They paused a moment on the edge of the plateau on which the house stood--the ground breaking
from it to the west. A group of cottages appeared amid the woods far away.

"If all estates were like this estate!" cried Lydia, pointing to them, "and all cottages like
their cottages!"

Faversham flushed and stiffened.

"Oh! the Tathams are always perfection!"

Lydia's eyebrows lifted.

"It is a crime?"

"No--but one hears too much of it."

"Not from them!" The tone was indignant.

"I daresay."

Suddenly, he threw her a look which startled her. She descended from her pony-cart at the steps
of the castle, her breath fluttering a little. What had happened?

"Her ladyship is in the garden," said the footman who received them. And he led the way through
a door in the wall of the side court. They followed--in a constrained silence. Lydia felt puzzled,
and rather angry.

Faversham recovered himself.

"I apologize! They have all the virtues."

His voice was lowered--for her ear; there was deference in his smile. But somehow Lydia was
conscious of a note of stormy self-assertion in him, which was new to her; something strong
and stubborn, which refused to take her lead as usual.

Lady Tatham advanced. The eyes of a group of people sitting in a circle under the shade of
a spreading yew tree turned toward them.

Boden, who had given Faversham a perfunctory greeting, fell back into his chair again, and
watched the new agent's reception with coolly smiling eyes.

Tatham came hurrying up to greet them. No one but Lydia could have distinguished any change
in the boyish voice and look. But it was there. She felt it.

He turned from her to Faversham.

"Awfully glad to see you. Hope you're quite fit again."

"Very nearly all right, thank you."

"Are you actually at work? Great excitement everywhere about you!"

Tatham stood, with his straw hat tilted toward the back of his head, and his hands on his sides,
observing his guest.

Faversham shrugged his shoulders.

"I feel horribly nervous!"

"Well you may!" laughed Tatham. "Never mind. We'll all back you up, if you'll let us."

"As far as I am concerned--the smallest contributions thankfully received. Who are these people
here?"

Tatham introduced him.

Then to Lydia:

"Delorme is waiting for you." He carried her off.

By this time Mr. Andover, the old grizzled squire who had been Lydia's partner at dinner the
night before, had dropped in, and various other residents from the neighbourhood. They gathered
eagerly round Faversham, in the deep shade of the yews.

And before long, the new man had produced an excellent first impression upon these country
gentlemen who were now to be his neighbours. It was evident that he was anxious to remove grievances.
His tone as to his employer was guarded, but not at all servile; and he made the impression
of a man of ability accustomed to business, though modestly avowing his ignorance of rural
affairs; independent, yet anxious to do his best with a great trust.

After half an hour's discussion, Barton drew Victoria aside, and said to her excitedly that
the new agent was "a capital fellow!"

"He'll do the job, you'll see! Melrose is breaking up--thank God! Every one who's seen him
lately says he's not half the man he was. He'll have to give this fellow a free hand. That
estate has been a plague-spot! But we'll get it cleared up now."

Victoria wondered. Secretly, she doubted the power of any man to manage Melrose even moriturus.

Meanwhile it had not escaped her that the new agent and Lydia Penfold had arrived together.
It had struck her also that their manner toward each other, as she went to meet them, had been
the manner of persons just emerged from a somewhat intimate conversation. And she already perceived
the nascent jealousy in Harry.

Well, no doubt the agent also was to be practised on by these newfangled arts. For no girl
could have had the audacity to make the compact Lydia Penfold had made with Harry, if she were
already in love with another man! No. Faversham, it was plain, would be the next added to her
train. Victoria beheld the golden-haired creature as the modern Circe, surrounded by troops
of ex-suitors--lovers transmogrified to Friends--docile at the heel of the sorceress. You took
your chance, received your "No," and subsided cheerfully into the pen. Victoria vowed to herself
that her Harry should do nothing of the kind!

She looked round her for the presumptuous maiden. There she was, under a fountain wall in the
Italian garden, her white dress gleaming from the warm shadow in which the stone was steeped;
Delorme, with an easel, in front. He was making a rapid charcoal sketch of her, and she was
sitting daintily erect, talking and smiling at intervals. A little way off, a group of people,
critical observers of the proceeding, lounged on the grass or in garden chairs; among them,
Tatham. And as he sat watching the sitting, his hat drawn forward over his brow and eyes, although
he chatted occasionally with Mrs. Manisty beside him, his mother was miserably certain that
he was in truth alive to nothing but the white vision under the wall--the delicate three-quarter
face, with its pointed chin, and the wisps of gold hair blowing about the temples.

And the owner of the face! Was she quite unmoved by a situation which might, Victoria felt,
have strained the nerves even of the experienced?

A slight incident seemed to show that she was not unmoved. Lydia had shown a keen, girlish
pleasure in the prospect of sitting to Delorme, the god, professionally, of her idolatry. Yet
the sketch, for that afternoon, came to nothing. For after an hour's sitting Delorme, as usual,
became restless and excited, exclaimed at the difficulty of the subject, cursed the light,
and finally, in a fit of disgust, wiped out everything he had done. Lydia rose from her seat,
looking rather white, and threw a strange, appealing glance--the mother caught it--at her young
host. Tatham sprang up, released her instantly and peremptorily, though Delorme implored for
another half-hour. Lydia, unheard by the artist, gave soft thanks to her deliverer, and, presently,
there they were--she and Harry--strolling up and down the rose-alleys together, as though nothing,
absolutely nothing, had happened.

And yet Harry had only asked her to marry him the night before, and she had only refused! Impossible
to suppose that it was the mere plotting of the finished coquette. This lover required neither
teasing nor kindling.

However, there it was. This little struggling artist had refused Harry; and she had refused Duddon.

For one could not be so absurd as to ignore that. Victoria, sitting in the shade beside Lady
Barbara, who had gone to sleep, looked dreamily round on the rose-red pile of building, on
the great engirdling woods, the hills, the silver reaches of river--interwoven now with the
dark tree-masses, now with glades of sunlit pasture. Duddon was one of the great possessions
of England. And this slip of a girl, with her home-made blouses, and her joy in making twenty
pounds out of her drawings, wherewith to pay the rent, had put it aside, apparently without
a moment's hesitation. Magnanimity--or stupidity?

The next moment Victoria was despising her own amazement. "One takes one's own lofty feelings
for granted--but never other people's! She says she doesn't love him--and that's the reason.
And I straightway don't believe her. What snobs we all are! One's astonishment betrays one's
standard. Gerald says, 'What have the poor to do with fine feelings?' and I detest him for
it. But I'm no better."

Suddenly, on the other side of the yew hedge behind her--voices. Harry and Lydia Penfold, in
eager and laughing discussion. And all at once a name reached her ears:

"Lydia"--pronounced rather shyly, in Tatham's voice.

"Lydia!" No doubt by the bidding of the young lady.

"I did not know I was so old-fashioned," thought Lady Tatham indignantly.

Yet the tone in which the name was given was neither caressing nor tender. It simply meant,
of course, that the young woman was breaking him in to her ideas; her absurd ideas, from which
Harry must be protected.

They emerged from the shrubbery and came toward her. Lydia timidly approached Victoria. With
Tatham she had not apparently been timid. But for his mother she was all deference.

"Isn't there a flower-show here to-morrow? May Susan and I come and help?"

The speaker raised her eyes to Lady Tatham, and Victoria read in them something beautiful and
appealing, that at once moved and angered her. The girl seemed to offer her heart to Tatham's
mother.

"I can't marry your son!--but let me love you--be your friend!--the friend of both."

Was that what it meant?

What could Victoria do? There was Harry hovering in the background, with that eager, pale look.
She was helpless. Mechanically she said, "We shall be delighted--grateful. I will send for you."

Thenceforward, however, Lydia allowed Tatham no more private speech with her. She made herself
agreeable to all Victoria's guests in turn. Delorme fell head over ears in love with her, so
judicious, yet so evidently sincere were the flatteries she turned upon him, and so docile
her consent to another sitting. Sweet, grave Lucy Manisty watched her with fascination. The
Manisty boy dragged her to the Long Pond, to show her the water-beasts there, as the best way
of marking his approval. Colonel Barton forgot politics to chat with her; and the mocking speculation
in Cyril Boden's eyes gradually softened, as the girl's charm and beauty penetrated, little
by little, through all the company.

Faversham alone seemed to have no innings with her till he was about to take his departure.
Then Victoria noticed that Lydia made a quick movement toward him, and they stood together
a few minutes, talking--certainly not as strangers.

Gerald Tatham also noticed it. There were few things, within his powers, that he left unnoticed.

"Now that would be suitable!" he said in Lady Barbara's ear, nodding toward the pair. "You
saw how they came in together. But of course it's a blind. Any one with half an eye can see
that she's just fishing for Harry!"

XII

Faversham sped home through the winding Cumbrian lanes, driven by the new chauffeur just imported
from Manchester. The hedges were thick with meadow-sweet and its scent, mingled with that of
new-mown hay, hung in the hot, still air. In front of him the Ullswater mountains showed dimly
blue. It was a country he was beginning to love. His heart rose to it.

Small wonder in that! For here, in this northern landscape, so strange to him but three months
ago, he had first stumbled on Success--and he had first met Lydia.

Was there any chance for him? Through all his talks with the country neighbours, or with Lady
Tatham, he had been keenly on the watch for anything that might show him what Lydia's position
in the Duddon Castle circle actually was. That Tatham was in love with her was clear. Mrs.
Penfold's chatter as to the daily homage paid by the castle to the cottage, through every channel--courtesies
or gifts--that the Tathams' delicacy could invent, or the Penfolds' delicacy accept, had convinced
him on that point. And Faversham had seen for himself at Duddon that Tatham hung upon her every
movement and always knew where she was and to whom she was talking; nor had the long conversation
in the rose-walk escaped him.

Well, of course, in the case of any other girl in the world than Lydia, such things would be
conclusive. Who was likely to refuse Tatham, plus the Tatham estates? But unless he had mistaken
her altogether--her detachment, her unworldliness, her high spirit--Lydia Penfold was not the
girl to marry an estate. And if Tatham himself had touched her heart--"would she have allowed
me the play with her that she has done this last fortnight?" She would have been absorbed,
preoccupied; and she had been neither. He thought of her kind eyes, her frank, welcoming ways,
her intense interest in his fortunes. Impossible--if she were in love with or on the point
of an engagement to Harry Tatham.

She had forgiven him for his touch of jealous ill-temper! As they stood together at the last
in the Duddon garden, she had said, "I must hear about to-night! send me a word!" And he carried
still, stamped upon his mind, the vision of her--half shy, half eager--looking up.

For the rest, the passion that was rapidly rising in the veins of a man full of life and will,
surprised the man himself, excited in him a new complacency and self-respect. For years he
had said to himself that he could only marry money. He remembered with a blush one or two rather
sordid steps in that direction--happily futile. But Lydia was penniless; and he could make
her rich. For his career was only beginning; and on wealth, the wealth which is power, he was
more than ever determined.

A turn in the road brought Threlfall into view. The new agent sat with folded arms, gazing
at the distant outline, and steadily pulling himself together to meet the ordeal of the evening.
It was by Melrose's own wish he had drawn up a careful scheme of the alterations and improvements
which seemed to him imperatively necessary in the financial interests of the estate; and he
had added to it a statement--very cautious and diplomatic--of the various public and private
quarrels in which Melrose was now concerned, with suggestions as to what could be done to straighten
them out. With regard to two or three of them litigation was already going on; had, indeed,
been going on interminably. Faversham was certain that with a little good-will and a very moderate
amount of money he could settle the majority of them in a week.

So far Melrose had been fairly amenable--had given a curt assent, for instance, to the conditions
on which Faversham had proposed to relet two of the vacant farms, and to one or two other changes.
But Faversham realized that he possessed no true knowledge of the old man's mind and temperament.
Exultant though he often felt in his new office, and the preposterously large salary attached
to it, he reminded himself constantly that he trod on unsure ground. Once or twice he had been
conscious of a strange sense as of some couchant beast beside him ready to spring; also of
some curious weakening and disintegration in Melrose, even since he had first known him. He
seemed to be more incalculable, less to be depended on. His memory was often faulty, and his
irritability hardly sane.

Faversham indeed was certain, from his own observation, that the mere excitement of opening
and exploring the huge collections he had accumulated, during these twenty years, in the locked
rooms of the house, had imposed a sharp nervous strain on a man now past seventy, who for all
the latter part of his life had taken no exercise and smoked incessantly.

Supposing he were suddenly to fall ill and die--what would happen to the house and its collections,
or to the immense fortune, the proportions of which the new agent was now slowly beginning
to appreciate? All sorts of questions with regard to the vanished wife and child were now rising
insistently in Faversham's mind. Were they really dead, and if so, how and where? Once or twice,
since his acceptance of the agency, Melrose had repeated to him with emphasis: "I am alone
in the world." Dixon and his wife preserved an absolute silence on the subject, and loyalty
to his employer forbade Faversham to question them or any other of Melrose's dependents. It
struck him, indeed, that Mrs. Dixon had shown a curious agitation when, that morning, Faversham
had conveyed to her Melrose's instructions to prepare a certain room on the first floor as
the agent's future bedroom.

"Aye, sir, aye--but it wor Mrs. Melrose's room," she had said, looking down, her lip twitching
a little, her old hands fumbling with the strings of her apron.

Faversham had asked uncomfortably whether there were not some other room in a less conspicuous
part of the house to which he might be transferred, the once dismantled drawing-room being
now wanted to house the fine things that were constantly coming to light. Mrs. Dixon shook
her head. All the available rooms were still full of what she called "stoof." And then she
had abruptly left him.

The light was fast failing as he approached the house. By the shearing away of trees and creeper,
at least from all its central and eastern parts, Threlfall had now lost much of its savage
picturesqueness; the formal garden within the forecourt had been to some extent restored; and
the front door had received a coat or two of paint. But the whole of the west wing was still
practically untouched. There they still were--the shuttered and overgrown windows. Faversham
looked at them expectantly. The exploration of the house roused in him now the same kind of
excitement that drives on the excavators of Delphi or Ephesus, or the divers for Spanish treasure.
He and Melrose had already dug out so many precious things--things many of them which had long
sunk below the surface of the old man's memory--that heaven only knew what might turn up. The
passion of adventure ran high; he longed to be at the business again and was sorry to think
it must some day have an end.

That broken window, for instance, now widely open in the west wing, was the window of the room
they had forced on the previous day. In general, Melrose possessed some rough record of the
contents of the locked rooms, and their labelled keys; but in this case both record and label
had been lost. A small amount of violence, however, had sufficed to open the half-rotten door.
Inside--thick darkness, save for one faint gleam through a dilapidated shutter. As Faversham
advanced, groping into the room, there was a sudden scurry of mice, and a sudden flapping of
something in a corner, which turned out to be a couple of bats. When he made for the window,
dense cobwebs brushed against his face, and half the shutter on which he laid his hand came
away at his touch and lay in fragments at his feet. The rain had come in for twenty years through
a broken pane, and had completely rotted the wood. Strange noises in the chimney showed that
owls had built there; and as the shutter fell a hideous nest of earwigs was disturbed, and
ran hither and thither over the floor.

And when Faversham turned to look at the contents of the room, he saw Melrose in his skullcap,
poking about among a medley of black objects on the floor and in a open cupboard, his withered
cheeks ghastly in the sudden daylight.

"What are they?" asked Faversham, wondering.

"Silver," was the sharp reply. "Some of the finest things known."

And from the filthy cupboard Melrose's shaking hand had drawn out a ewer and basin, whence
some ragged coverings fell away. It was almost entirely black; but the exquisite work of it--the
spiral fluting of the ewer, its shell-like cover, the winged dragon on the handle, and, round
the oval basin, the rim of chasing dolphins, could still be seen.

"That came from the Wolfgang sale--I gave six hundred for it. It's worth six thousand now--you
can't find such a piece anywhere. Ah! by George!"--with a stifled shout--"and that's the Demidoff
tazza!"--as Faversham lifted up a thing lying in a half-open box that might have been ebony--a
shallow cup on a stem, with a young vine-crowned Bacchus for a handle. Melrose took it eagerly,
put up his eyeglass, and, rubbing away with his handkerchief, searched for the mark. "There
it is!--a Caduceus and 1620. And the signature--see!--'A.D. Viana.' There was a cup signed
by Viana sold last week at Christie's--fetched a fabulous sum! Every single thing in this room
is worth treble and quadruple what I gave for it. Talk of investments! There are no such investments
as works of art. Buy 'em, I say--lock 'em up--and forget 'em for twenty years!"

With much labour, they had at last ranged the most important pieces on some trestle tables
and in the cupboards of the room. A number of smaller boxes and packages still remained to
be looked through. Faversham, by Melrose's directions, had written to a London firm of dealers
in antique silver, directing them to send down two of their best men to clean, mend, and catalogue.
Proper glazed cupboards, baize-lined, were to be put up along each side of the room; the room
itself was to be repaired, whitened, and painted. Faversham already foresaw the gleaming splendour
of the show, when all should be done, and these marvels of a most lovely art--these silver
nymphs and fauns, these dainty sea-horses and dolphins, these temples and shrines, now holding
a Hercules, now a St. Sebastian, these arabesques, garlands, festoons, running in a riot of
beauty over the surface of cup and salver--had been restored to daylight and men's sight, after
the burial of a generation.

But the value of what the house contained! In these days of huge prices and hungry buyers,
it must be simply enormous.

Faversham often found himself speculating eagerly upon it, and always with the query in the
background "For whom is it all piling up?"

As they left the silver room, Melrose had made the grim remark that the contents of that room
alone would make it prudent to let loose an extra couple of bloodhounds in the park at night.
Dixon's frowning countenance as he followed in their wake showed an answering anxiety. For
he had now been made guardian of the collections; and a raw nephew of his, chosen apparently
for his honesty and his speechlessness, had been put on as manservant, Mrs. Dixon had two housemaids
under her, and a girl in the kitchen. It was sometimes evident to Faversham that the agitation
of these changes which had come so suddenly upon them, had aged the two old servants, just
as it had tried their master.

Faversham on dismounting was told by Joseph, the new man, that Mr. Melrose would dine alone,
but would be glad to see Mr. Faversham in the library after dinner.

Faversham made a quick and sparing meal in his own room, and then adjourning to his newly furnished
office ran eagerly through the various papers and proposals which he had to lay before his
employer.

As he did so, he was more conscious than ever before of the enormity of Melrose's whole career
as a landowner. The fact was that the estate had been for years a mere field for the display
of its owner's worst qualities--caprice, miserliness, jealous or vindictive love of power.
The finance of it mattered nothing to him. Had he been a poorer man his landed property might
have had a chance; he would have been forced to run it more or less on business lines. But
his immense income came to him apparently from quite other sources--mines, railways, foreign
investments; and with all the human relations involved in landowning he was totally unfit to deal.

Hence these endless quarrels with his tenants to whom he never allowed a lease; these constant
evictions; these litigations as to improvements, compensation, and heaven knows what. The land
was naturally of excellent quality, and many a tenant came in with high hopes, only to find
that the promises on the strength of which he had taken his farm were never fulfilled, and
that if it came to lawyers, Melrose generally managed "to best it." Hence, too, the rotten,
insanitary cottages--maintained, Faversham could almost swear, for the mere sake of defying
the local authorities and teaching "those Socialist fools" a lesson. Hence the constant charges
of persecution for political reasons; and hence, too, this bad case of the Brands, which had
roused such a strong and angry sympathy in the neighbourhood that Faversham felt the success
of his own regime must be endangered unless some means could be found, compatible with Melrose's
arrogance, of helping the ruined family.

Well, there in those clear typewritten sheets, lay his suggestions for dealing with these various
injustices and infamies. They were moderate. Expensive for the moment, they would be economical
in the long run. He had given them his best brains and his hardest work. And he had taken the
best advice. But they meant, no doubt, a complete change in the administration and personnel
of the estate.

Faversham stepped into the garden, and, hanging over the low wall which edged the sandstone
cliff, he looked out over the gorge of the river, across the woods, into the ravines and gullies
of the fells. Mountain and wood stood dark against a saffron sky. In the dim blue above it
Venus sailed. A light wind stirred the trees and the stream. Along the river meadows he could
hear the cows munching and see their dusky forms moving through a thin mist. The air was amethyst
and gold, and the beautiful earth shone through it, ennobled by the large indistinctness, the
quiet massing of the evening tones.

His heart withdrew itself into some inner shrine where it might be with Lydia. She represented
to him some force, some help, to which he turned.

Please God, he would win her!--and through a piece of honourable work--the cleansing of an
ugly corner of human life. A nobler ambition than he had ever yet been conscious of, entered
in. He felt himself a better man, with a purpose in the world.

Nor, at this critical moment, did he forget his uncle--the man who had been a father to him
in his orphaned boyhood. What pleasure the dear old fellow would have taken in this new opening--and
in Melrose's marvellous possessions! By the way--Melrose had said nothing about the gems for
a long time past, and Faversham was well content to leave them in his temporary keeping. But
his superstitious feeling about them--and all men have some touch of superstition--was stronger
than ever. It was as though he protested anew to some hovering shape, which took the aspect
now of Mackworth, now of Fortuna--"Stand by me!--even as I hold by them."

The chiming clock in the gallery--a marvel of French horlogerie, made for the Regent Orleans--had
just finished striking eleven. Melrose, who had been speaking with energy through the soft,
repeated notes, threw himself back in his chair, and lit a cigarette. His white hair shone
against the panelled background of the room, and, beneath it, framed in bushy brows still black,
a pair of menacing eyes fixed themselves on Faversham.

Faversham remained for a minute at the table, looking down upon it, his hand resting on the
document from which he had been reading. Then he too pushed his chair slowly backward, and
looked up.

"I understand then, Mr. Melrose, that these proposals of mine do not meet with your approval?"

"I have told you what I approve."

"You have approved a few matters--of minor importance. But my chief proposals"--he ran his
finger lightly over the pages of his memorandum, enumerating the various headings--"these,
if I have understood you correctly, are not to your mind, and you refuse to sanction them?"

The face before him was as iron.

"Let half these things wait, I tell you, and they will settle themselves. I pointed out to
you when we made our bargain, that I would not have my estate run on any damned Socialist principles."

Faversham smiled; but he had grown very pale. "Your financial profit, Mr. Melrose, and the
business management of your property have been my sole concern."

"I am sure that you think so. But as to what is profit and what is business, you must allow
me to be the final judge."

Faversham thought a moment, then rose, and walked quietly up and down the length of the room,
his hands in his pockets. The old man watched him, his haughty look and regular features illuminated
by the lamp beside him. In front of him was the famous French table, crowded as usual with
a multitude of miscellaneous objets d'art, conspicuous among them a pair of Tanagra figures,
white visions of pure grace, amid the dusty confusion of their surroundings.

Suddenly Melrose flung his cigarette vehemently away.

"Faversham! Don't be a fool! I have something to say to you a deal more important than this
damned nonsense!" He struck his hand on the open memorandum.

Faversham turned in astonishment.

"Sit down again!" said Melrose peremptorily, "and listen to me. I desire to put things as plainly
and simply as possible. But I must have all your attention."

Faversham sat down. Melrose was now standing, his hands on the back of the chair from which
he had risen.

"I have just made my will," he said abruptly. "Tomorrow I hope to sign it. It depends on you
whether I sign it or not."

As the speaker paused, Faversham, leaning back and fronting him, grew visibly rigid. An intense
and startled expectancy dawned in his face; his lips parted.

"My will," Melrose continued, in a deliberately even voice, "concerns a fortune of rather more--than
a million sterling--allowing little or nothing for the contents of this house. I inherited
a great deal, and by the methods I have adopted--not the methods, my dear Faversham, I may
say, that you have been recommending to me to-night. I have more than doubled it. I have given
nothing away to worthless people, and no sloppy philanthropies have stood between me and the
advantages to which my knowledge and my brains entitled me. Hence these accumulations. Now,
the question is, what is to be done with them? I am alone in the world. I have no interest
whatever in building universities, or providing free libraries, or subsidizing hospitals. I
didn't make the world, and I have never seen why I should spend my energies in trying to mend
what the Demiurge has made a mess of. In my view the object of everybody should be to live,
as acutely as possible--to get as many sensations, as many pleasant reactions as possible--out
of the day. Some people get their sensations--or say they do--out of fussing about the poor.
Forty years ago I got them out of politics--or racing--or high play. For years past, as you
know, I have got them out of collecting works of art--and fighting the other people in the
world who want the same things that I do. Perfectly legitimate in my belief! I make no apology
whatever for my existence. Well, now then, I begin to be old--don't interrupt me--I don't like
it, but I recognize the fact. I have various ailments. Doctors are mostly fools; but I admit
that in my case they may be right; though I intend to live a good while yet in spite of them.
Still--there it is--who is to have this money--and these collections? Sooner than let any rascally
Chancellor of the Exchequer get at them, I would leave them to Dixon. But I confess I think
Dixon would be embarrassed to know what to do with them. I don't think I possess a single relation
that I don't dislike. So now we come to the point. With your leave--and by your leave--I propose
to leave the money and the collections--to you!" The young man--flushed and staring--half rose
in his chair.

"To me? What can you possibly mean, sir?"

"Precisely what I say. On conditions, of course. It depends on yourself. But you were brought
into this house by a strange chance--you happen to suit me--to interest me. 'Provvy' as Bentham
would say, seems to point to you. Here--in this drawer"--he brought his hand down strongly
on the writing table--"is a will which I wrote last night. It leaves the whole of my property
to you, subject to certain directions as to the works of art--to a provision for old Dixon,
and so on. You can't witness it, of course, nor can Dixon; otherwise it might be signed to-night.
But if we come to an understanding to-night, I can sign it to-morrow morning and get a couple
of men from the farm to witness it. I think I can promise to live so long!"

There was silence. With an uncertain, swaying movement Melrose returned to his chair. The physical
weakness betrayed by the action was strangely belied, however, by his imperious aspect, as
of an embodied Will. His eyes never left Faversham, even while he rested heavily on the table
before him for support.

Suddenly, Faversham, who had been sitting pale and motionless, looked up.

"Mr. Melrose--have you no natural heirs?"

Melrose could not altogether disguise the shock of the question. He threw himself back, however,
with a smile.

"You have been listening I see to the stories that people tell."

Faversham bent forward and spoke earnestly: "I understand that your wife and child left you
twenty years ago. Are they still living?"

Melrose shrugged his shoulders. "Whether they are or not, really matters nothing at all either
to you or me: Mrs. Melrose left this house of her own free will. That ended the connection
between us. In any case, you need have no alarm. There is no entail--even were there a son,
and there never was a son. I do what I will with my own. There is no claim on me--there would
be no claim on you."

"There must be--there would be--a moral claim!"

The colour rushed into Melrose's face. He drummed the table impatiently.

"We will not, if you please, argue the matter, which is for me a chose jugée. And no one who
wishes to remain a friend of mine"--he spoke with emphasis--"will ever attempt to raise ghosts
that are better left in their graves. I repeat--my property is unencumbered--my power to deal
with it absolute. I propose to make you my heir--on conditions. The first is"--he looked sombrely
and straight at his companion--"that I should not be harassed or distressed by any such references
as those you have just made."

Faversham made no sound. His chin was propped on his hand, and his eyes pursued the intricacies
of a silver cup studded with precious stones which stood on the table beside him. He thought,
"The next condition will be--the gems."

"The second," Melrose resumed, after a somewhat long pause, and with a sarcastic intonation,
"is that you should resist the very natural temptation of exhibiting me to the world as a penitent
and reformed character. In that document you have just read you suggest to me--first, that
I should retire from three lawsuits in which, whatever other people may think, I conceive that
I have a perfectly good case; second"--he ticked the items off on the long tapering finger
of his left hand--"that I should rebuild a score or two of cottages it would not pay me to
rebuild--in which I force no one to live--and which I shall pull down when it pleases me, just
to teach a parcel of busybodies to mind their own business; third--that I should surrender,
hands down, to a lot of trumpery complaints and grievances got up partly to spite a landlord,
partly to get money out of him; and fourthly--with regard to the right of way--that I should
let that young prig Tatham, a lad just out of the nursery, dictate to me, bring the whole country
about my ears, and browbeat me out of my rights. Now--I warn you--I shall do none of these things!"

The speaker paused a moment, and then turned impetuously on his companion.

"Have you any reason so far to complain of my conduct toward you?"

"Complain? You have been only too amazingly, incredibly generous."

Melrose's hand made a disdainful movement.

"I did what suited me. And I told you, to begin with, it would not suit me to run my estate
as though it were a University Settlement. Handle me gently--that's all. You've had your way
about some of the farms--you'll get it no doubt with regard to others. But don't go about playing
the reformer--on this dramatic scale!--at my expense. I don't believe in this modern wish-wash;
and I don't intend to don the white sheet."

He rose, and lighting another cigarette, he dropped a log on the fire, and stood with his back
to it, quietly smoking. But his eyes were all fierce life under the dome of his forehead, and
his hand shook a little.

Faversham sat absolutely still. Rushing through his veins was the sense of something incredible
and intoxicating. The word "million" rang in his ears. He was conscious of the years behind
him--their poverty, their thwarted ambitions, their impotent discontent. And suddenly the years
before him lit up; all was possible; all was changed. Yet as he sat there his pulses hurrying,
words coming to his lips which dropped away again, he became conscious of two or three extremely
sharp visualizations.

A room in one of the Mainstairs cottages, containing a bed, and on it a paralyzed girl, paralyzed
after diphtheria--the useless hands--the vacant, miserable look--other beds in the same room
filling it up--the roof so low that it seemed to be crushing down on the girl--holes in the
thatch rudely mended.

Again--a corner in the Mainstairs churchyard, filled with small, crowded graves, barely grass-grown;
the "Innocents' Corner."

And again, a wretched one-roomed cottage in the same row of hovels, kitchen, bedroom, and living-room
in one, mud-floored, the outer door opening into it, the bed at the back, and an old husband
and wife, crippled with rheumatism, sitting opposite each other on a day of pouring rain, shivering
in the damp and the draughts.

Then, driving these out--the face of Colonel Barton with its blunt, stupid kindliness, and
that whole group at Duddon, welcoming the new man, believing in him, ready to help him, with
the instinctive trust of honest folk.

And last, but flashing through all the rest, Lydia's eyes--the light in them--and the tones
of her voice--"You'll do it!--you'll do it!--you'll set it all right!"

He perfectly realized at that moment--before the brain had begun to refine on the situation--what
was asked of him. He was to be Melrose's tool and accomplice in all that Melrose's tyrannical
caprice chose to do with the lives of human beings; he was to forfeit the respect of good men;
he was to make an enemy of Harry Tatham; and he was to hurt--and possibly alienate--Lydia.

And the price of it was a million.

He rose rather heavily to his feet, and gathered up his papers--a slim and comely figure amid
the queer medley of the room.

"I must have some time to think about what you have said to me, Mr. Melrose. You've taken my
breath away--you won't be surprised at that."

Melrose smiled grimly.

"Not at all. That's natural! Very well then--we meet to-morrow morning. Before eleven o'clock
the will must be either signed--or cancelled. And for the present--please!--silence!"

They exchanged good-nights. Melrose looked oddly after the young man, as the door closed.

"He took it well. I suppose he's been sitting up nights over that precious memorandum. He was
to be the popular hero, and I the 'shocking example.' Well, he'll get over it. I think--I have--both
him--and the Medusa. And what does the will matter to me? Any one may have the gear, when I
can't have it. But I'll not be dictated to--this side of the Styx!"

Faversham wandered out once more into the summer night. A little path along the cliff took
him down to the riverside, and he paced beside the dimly shining water, overhung by the black
shadow of the woods. When he returned to the Tower, just as the light was altering, and the
chill of dawn beginning, a long process of tumultuous reflection had linked the mood of the
preceding evening to the mood of this new day, and of the days that were to follow. He had
determined on his answer to Melrose; and he was exultantly sure of his power to deal with the
future. The scruples and terrors of the evening were gone. His intelligence rose to his task.

This old man, already ill, liable at any moment to the accidents of age, and still madly absorbed,
to the full extent of his powers and his time, in the pursuits of connoisseurship--what could
he really do in the way of effective supervision of his agent? A little tact, a little prudent
maneuvering; some money here, possibly out of his, Faversham's, own pocket; judicious temporizing
there; white lying when necessary--a certain element of intrigue in Faversham rose to the business
with alacrity. In the pride of his young brain and his recovered strength he did not regard
it as possible that he should fail in it. After all, the law was now squeezing Melrose; and
might be gently and invisibly assisted. If, as to the will itself, his lips were sealed, it
would be possible to give some hint to Lydia, for friendship to interpret; to plead with her
for patience, in view of the powers, the beneficent powers, that must be his--aye and hers--the
darling!--some day.

The thought of them was intoxicating! A man to whom wealth had always appeared as the only
gate of opportunity, was now to be rich beyond the utmost dream of his ambition. The world
lay at his feet. He would use it well; he would do all things honourably. Ease, travel, a political
career, wide influence, the possession of beautiful things--in a very short time they would
all be in his grasp; for Melrose was near his end. Some difficulty first, but not too much;
the struggle that leads to the prize!

As he softly let himself in at the side door of the Tower, and mounted to his new room, his
whole nature was like a fiercely sped arrow, aflight for its goal. Of what obstacles might
lie between him and his goal he had ceased to take account. Compunctions had disappeared.

Only--once--as he stood dreamily looking round the strange bedroom to which his personal possessions
had been transferred, an image crossed his mind which was disagreeable. It was that of Nash,
the shady solicitor in Pengarth, Melrose's factotum in many disreputable affairs, and his agent
in the ruin of the Brands. A little reptile if ever there was one! Faversham had come across
the creature a good deal since his appointment as agent; and was well aware that he had excited
Nash's jealousy and dislike. A man to be guarded against no doubt; but what could he do? Faversham
contemptuously dismissed the thought of him.

A charming old room!--though the height and the dark tone of the oak panelling sucked all the
light from his pair of candles. That would be altered as soon as the electric installation,
for which Melrose had just signed the contract, was complete. In the centre of the wall opposite
the window, through which a chill dawn was just beginning to penetrate, stood a fine armoire
of carved Norman work. Faversham went to look at it, and vaguely opened one of its drawers.

There was something at the back of the drawer, a picture, apparently an old photograph, lying
face downward. He drew it out, and looked at it.

He beheld a young and rather pretty woman, with a curiously flat head, staring black eyes,
and sharp chin. She had a child on her knee of about a year old, an elf with delicately proud
features, and a frowning, passionate look.

Who were they? The photograph was stained with age and damp; deep, too, in dust. From the woman's
dress it must be a good many years old.

The answer suggested itself at once. He was now inhabiting Mrs. Melrose's room, which, according
to Mrs. Dixon, had been closed for years, from the date of her flight. The photograph must
have been hers; the child was hers--and Melrose's! The likeness indeed cried out.

He replaced the photograph, his mind absorbed in the excitement of its discovery. Where were
they now--the forlorn pair? He had no doubt whatever that they were alive--at the old man's
mercy, somewhere.

He let in the dawn, and stood long in thought beside the open window. But in the end, he satisfied
himself. He would find a way of meeting all just claims, when the time arrived. Why not?

BOOK III

XIII

When Delorme left Duddon, carrying with him a huge full-length of Victoria, which must, Victoria
felt, entirely cut her off from London during the ensuing spring and summer--for it was to
go into the Academy, and on no account could she bear to find herself in the same room with
it--he left behind him a cordial invitation to the "little painting girl" to come and work
in his Somersetshire studio--where he was feverishly busy with a great commission for an American
town-hall for the remainder of August and September. Such invitations were extraordinarily
coveted; and Lydia, "advanced" as she was, should have been jubilant. She accepted for her
art's sake; but no one could have called her jubilant.

Mrs. Penfold, who for some weeks had been in a state of nervous and rather irritable mystification
with regard to Lydia, noticed the fact at once. She consulted Susy.

"I can't make her out!" said the mother plaintively. "Oh, Susy, do you know what's been going
on? Lydia has been at Duddon at least six times this last fortnight--and Lord Tatham has been
here--and nothing happens. And all the time Lydia keeps telling me she's not in love with him,
and doesn't mean to marry him. But what's he doing?"

Susan was looking dishevelled and highly strung. She had spent the afternoon in writing the
fifth act of a tragedy on Belisarius; and it was more than a fortnight since Mr. Weston, the
young vicar of Dunscale, had been to call. Her cheeks were sallow; her dark eyes burnt behind
their thick lashes.

"Suppose he's done it?" she said gloomily.

Mrs. Penfold gave a little shriek.

"Done what? What do you mean?"

"He's proposed--and she's said 'No.'"

"Lord Tatham! Oh, Susy!" wailed Mrs. Penfold; "you don't think that?"

"Yes, I do," said Susan, with resolution. "And now she's letting him down gently."

"And never said a word to you or me! Oh, Susy, she couldn't be so unkind."

Mrs. Penfold's pink and white countenance, on which age had as yet laid so light a finger,
showed the approach of tears. She and Susy were sitting in a leafy recess of the garden; Lydia
had gone after tea to see old Dobbs and his daughter.

"That's all this friendship business, she's so full of," said Susy. "If she'd accepted him,
she'd have told us, of course. Now he's plucked as a lover, and readmitted as a friend. And
one doesn't betray a friend's secrets--even to one's relations. There it is."

"I never heard such nonsense," cried Mrs. Penfold. "I used to try that kind of thing--making
friends with young men. It was no use at all. They always proposed."

Susan's state of tension--caused by the fact that her Fifth Act had been a veritable shambles--broke
up in laughter. She couldn't help kissing her mother.

"You're priceless, darling, you really are. I wouldn't say anything to her about it, if I were
you," she added, more seriously. "I shall attack her, of course, some day."

"But she still goes on seeing him," said Mrs. Penfold, pursuing her own bewildered thoughts.

"That's her theory. She sees him--they write to each other--they probably call each other 'Lydia'
and 'Harry.'"

"Susy!"

"Why not? Christian names are very common nowadays."

"In my youth if any girl called a young man by his Christian name, it meant she was engaged
to him," said Mrs. Penfold with energy, her look clearing. "And if they do call each other
'Lydia' and 'Harry' you may say what you like, Susy, but she will be engaged to him some day--if
not now, in the winter, or some time."

"Well, you may be right. Anyway, don't talk to her, mother. Leave her alone!"

Mrs. Penfold sighed deeply.

"Just think, Susy, what it would be like"--she dropped her voice--"'Countess Tatham!'--can't
you see her going to the drawing-room--with her feathers and her tiara? Wouldn't she be lovely--wouldn't
she have the world at her feet? Think what your father would have said."

"I don't believe those things ever enter Lydia's mind!"

Mrs. Penfold slowly shook her head.

"It isn't human," she said plaintively, "it really isn't." And in a mournful silence she returned
to her embroidery.

Susan invaded her sister's bedroom late that night, and found Lydia before her looking-glass
enveloped in shimmering clouds of hair. The younger sister sat down on the edge of the bed
with her arms folded.

"Why are you so slack about this Delorme plan, Lydia? I don't believe you want to go."

Lydia turned with a start.

"But of course I want to go! It's the greatest chance. I shall learn a heap of things."

Susan nodded.

"All the same you don't seem a bit keen."

Lydia fidgeted.

"Well, you see, I admire Mr. Delorme's work as much as ever. But--"

"You don't like Mr. Delorme? The greatest egotist I ever saw," said the uncompromising Susan,
who, as a dramatist, prided herself on a knowledge of character.

"Ah, but a great, great painter!" cried Lydia. "Don't dissuade me, Susan. Professionally--I
must do it!"

"It's not because Mr. Delorme is an egotist, that you don't want to go away," said Susan, quietly.
"It's for quite a different reason."

"What do you mean?"

"It's because--no, I don't mind if I do make you angry!--it's because you're so desperately
interested in Mr. Faversham."

"Really, Susan!" The cloud of hair was thrown back, and Lydia's face emerged, the clear, indignant
eyes shining in the candlelight.

"Oh, I don't mean that you're in love with him--wish you were! But you're roping him in--just
like Lord Tatham. And as he's the latest, he's the most--well, exciting!"

Susan with her chin in her hands, and her dusky countenance very much alive, seemed to be playing
her sister with cautious mockery--feeling her way.

"Dear Susy--I don't know why you're so unkind--and unjust," said Lydia, after a moment, in
the tone of one wounded.

"How am I unkind? You're the practical one of us three. You run us and take care of us. We
know we're stupids compared to you. But really mamma and I stand aghast at the way in which
you manage your love affairs!"

"My love affairs!" cried Lydia, "but I haven't got any!"

"Do you mean to say that Lord Tatham is not in love with you?" said Susan severely--"that he
wouldn't marry you to-morrow if you'd let him?"

Lydia flushed, but her look was neither resentful nor repentant.

"Why should we put it in that way?" she said, ardently. "Isn't it possible to look at men in
some other light than as possible husbands? Haven't they got hearts and minds--don't they think
and feel--just like us?"

"Oh, no, not like us," said Susan hastily--"never."

Lydia smiled.

"Well, enough like us, anyway. Do you ever think, Susy!" she seized her sister's wrist and
looked her in the eyes--"that there are a million more women than men in this country? It is
evident we can't all be married. Well, then, I withdraw from the competition! It's demoralizing
to women; and it's worse for men. But I don't intend to confine myself to women friends."

"They bore you," said Susy sharply; "confess it at once!"

"How unkind of you!" Lydia's protest was almost tearful. "You know I have at least four"--she
recalled their names--"who love me, and I them. But neither men nor women should live in a
world apart. They complete each other."

"Yes--in marriage," said Susan.

"No!--in a thousand other ways--we hardly dream of yet. Not marriage only--but comradeship--help--in
all the great--impersonal--delightful things!"

"You look like a prophetess," said Susan, appraising her sister's kindled beauty, with an artistic
eye; "but I should like to know what Lady Tatham has to say!"

Lydia was silent, her lip quivering a little.

"And I warn you," Susan continued, greatly daring, "that Faversham won't let you do what you
like with him!"

Lydia rose slowly, gathered up her golden veil into one big knot without speaking, and went
on with her preparations for bed.

Susy too uncoiled her small figure and stood up.

"I've told mamma not to bother you," she said abruptly.

Lydia threw an arm round her tormentor.

"Dear Sue, I don't want to scold, but if you only knew how you spoil things!"

Susy's eyes twinkled. She let Lydia kiss her, and then walking very slowly to the door, so
as not to have an appearance of being put to flight, she disappeared.

Lydia was left to think--and think--her eyes on the ground. Never had life run so warmly and
richly; she was amply conscious of it. And what, pray, in spite of Susy's teasing, had love
to say to it? Passion was ruled out--she held the senses in leash, submissive. Harry Tatham,
indeed, was now writing to her every day; and she to him, less often. Faversham, too, was writing
to her, coming to consult her; and all that a woman's sympathy, all that mind and spirit could
do to help him in his heavy and solitary task she would do. Toward Tatham she felt with a tender
sisterliness; anxious often; yet confident in herself, and in the issue. In Faversham's case,
it was rather a keen, a romantic curiosity, to see how a man would quit himself in a great
ordeal suddenly thrust upon him; and a girlish pride that he should turn to her for help.

His first note to her lay there--inside her sketch book. It had reached her the morning after
his interview with Mr. Melrose.

"I didn't find Mr. Melrose in a yielding mood last night. I beg of you don't expect too much.
Please, please be patient, and remember that if I can do as yet but little, I honestly believe
nobody else could do anything. We must wait and watch--here a step, and there a step. But I
think I may ask you to trust me; and, if you can, suggest to others to do the same. How much
your sympathy helps me I cannot express."

Of course she would be patient. But she was triumphantly certain of him--and his power. What
Susy said to her unwillingness to go south was partly true. She would have liked to stay and
watch the progress of things on the Melrose estates; to be at hand if Mr. Faversham wanted
her. She thought of Mainstairs--that dying girl--the sickly children--the helpless old people.
Indignant pity gripped her. That surely would be the first--the very first step; a mere question
of weeks--or days. It was so simple, so obvious! Mr. Melrose would be shamed into action! Mr.
Faversham could not fail there.

But she must go. She had her profession; and she must earn money.

Also--the admission caused her discomfort--the sooner she went, the sooner would it be possible
for Lady Tatham to induce her son to migrate to the Scotch moor where, as a rule, she and he
were always to be found settled by the first days of August. It was evident that she was anxious
to be gone. Lydia confessed it, sorely, to herself. It seemed to her that she had been spending
some weeks in trying hard to make friends with Lady Tatham; and she had not succeeded.

"Why won't she talk to me!" she thought; "and I daren't--to her. It would be so easy to understand
each other!"

Three days later, Green Cottage was in the occupation of a Manchester solicitor, who was paying
a rent for it, which put Mrs. Penfold in high spirits; especially when coupled with the astonishing
fact that Lydia had sold all her three drawings which had been sent to a London exhibition--also,
apparently, to a solicitor. Mrs. Penfold expressed her surprise to her daughter that the practice
of the law should lead both to a love of scenery and the patronage of the arts; she had been
brought up to think of it as a deadening profession.

Lydia had gone south; Mrs. Penfold and Susy were paying visits to relations; and Duddon was
closed till the end of September. It was known that Mr. Melrose had gone off on one of his
curio-hunting tours; and the new agent ruled. A whole countryside, or what was left of it in
August, settled down to watch.

       *       *       *       *       *

High on the moors of Ross-shire, Lady Tatham too watched. The lodge filled up with guests,
and one charming girl succeeded another, by Victoria's careful contrivance. None of your painted
and powdered campaigners with minds torn between the desire to "best" a rival, and the terror
of their dressmakers' bills; but the freshest, sweetest, best-bred young women she could discover
among the daughters of her friends. Tatham was delightful with them all, patiently played golf
with them, taught them to fish, and tramped with them over the moors. And when they said good-bye,
and the motor took them to the station, Victoria believed that he remembered them just about
as much, or as little, as the "bag" of the last shoot.

Her own feeling was curiously mixed. There were many days when she would have liked to beat
Lydia Penfold, and at all times her pride lay wounded, bitterly wounded, at the girl's soft
hands. When Harry had first confided in her, she had been certain that no nice girl could long
resist him, if only she, Harry's mother, gave opportunities and held the lists. It would not
be necessary for her to take any active steps. Mere propinquity would do it. Then, when Tatham
stumbled prematurely into his proposal, Victoria might have intervened to help, but for Lydia's
handling of the situation. She had refused the natural place offered her in Harry's life--the
place of lover and wife. But she had claimed and was now holding a place only less intimate,
only less important; and Victoria felt herself disarmed and powerless. To try and separate
them was to deal a blow at her son of which she was incapable; and at the same time there was
the gnawing anxiety lest their absurd "friendship" should stand in the way of her boy's marriage--should
"queer the pitch" for the future.

Meanwhile, day by day, Tatham's letters travelled south to Lydia, and twice a week or thereabout,
letters addressed in a clear and beautiful handwriting arrived by an evening post from the
south. And gradually Victoria became aware of new forces and new growths in her son. "What
does she write to you about?" she had said to him once, with her half-sarcastic smile. And
after a little hesitation--silently, Tatham had handed over to her the letter of the afternoon.
"I'd like you to see it," he had said simply. "She makes one think a lot."

And, indeed, it was a remarkable letter, full of poetry but also full of fun. The humours of
Delorme's studio--a play she had seen in London--a book she had read--the characteristics of
a Somersetshire village--the eager pen ran on without effort, without pretence. But it was
the pen of youth, of feeling, of romance; and it revealed the delicate heart and mind of a
woman. There was a liberal education in it; and Victoria watched the process at work, sometimes
with jealousy, sometimes with emotion. After all, might it not be a mere stage--and a useful
one. She reserved her judgment, waiting for the time when these two should meet again, face
to face.

September was more than halfway through, when one morning Tatham tossed a letter to his mother
across the breakfast table with the remark:

"I say, mother, the new broom doesn't seem to be sweeping very well!"

The letter was from Undershaw. Tatham--in whom the rural reformer was steadily developing--kept
up a fairly regular correspondence with the active young doctor, on medical and sanitary matters,
connected with his own estate and the county.

"Matters are going rather oddly in this neighbourhood. I must say I can't make Faversham out.
You remember what an excellent beginning he seemed to make a couple of months ago. Colonel
Barton told me that he had every hope of him; he was evidently most anxious to purge some at
least of Mr. Melrose's misdeeds; seemed businesslike, conciliatory, etc. Well, I assure you,
he has done almost nothing! It is not really a question of giving him time. There were certain
scandalous things, years old, that he ought to have put right at once--on the nail--or thrown
up his post. The Mainstairs cottages for instance. We are in for another diphtheria epidemic
there. The conditions are simply horrible. Melrose, as before, will do nothing, and defies
anybody else to do anything; says he has given the tenants notice that he intends to pull the
cottages down, and the people stay in them at their own peril. The local authority can do nothing;
the people say they have nowhere to go, and cling like limpets to the rock. Melrose could put
those sixteen cottages in order for a couple of thousand pounds, which would be about as much
to him as half-a-crown to me. It is all insane pride and obstinacy--he won't be dictated to--and
the rest. I shall be a land-nationalizer if I hear much more of Melrose.

"Meanwhile, Faversham will soon come in for his master's hideous unpopularity, if he can't
manage him better. He is looking white and harassed, and seems to avoid persons like myself
who might attack him. But I gather that he has been trying to come round Melrose by attempting
some reforms behind his back, and probably with his own money. Something, for instance, was
begun at Mainstairs, while Melrose was away in Holland, after the fresh diphtheria cases broke
out. There was an attempt made to get at the pollutions infecting the water supply, and repairs
were begun on the worst cottage.

"But in the middle Melrose came home, and was, I believe, immediately informed of what was
going on by that low scoundrel Nash who used to be his factotum, and has shown great jealousy
of Faversham since his appointment. What happened exactly I can't say, but from something old
Dixon said to me the other day--I have been attending him for rheumatism--I imagine there was
a big row between the two men. Why Faversham didn't throw up there and then, I can't understand.
However there he is still, immersed they tell me in the business of the estate, but incessantly
watched and hampered by Melrose himself, an extraordinary development in so short a time; and
able, apparently, even if he is willing, which I assume--to do little or nothing to meet the
worst complaints of the tenants. They are beginning to turn against him furiously.

"Last week the sight of Mainstairs and the horrible suffering there got on my nerves. I sat
down and wrote to Melrose peremptorily demanding a proper supply of antitoxin at once, at his
expense. A post-card from him arrived, refusing, and bidding me apply to a Socialist government.
That night, however, on arriving at my surgery, I found a splendid supply of antitoxin, labelled
'for Mainstairs,' without another word. I have reason to think Faversham had been in Carlisle
himself that day to get it; he must have cleared out the place.

"Next day I saw him in the village. He specially haunts a cottage where there is a poor girl
of eighteen, paralyzed after an attack of diphtheria last year, and not, I think, long for
this world. The new epidemic has now attacked her younger sister, a pretty child of eight.
I doubt whether we shall save her. Miss Penfold has always been very kind in coming to visit
them. She will be dreadfully sorry.

"Faversham, I believe, has tried to move the whole family. But where are they to go? The grandfather
is a shepherd on a farm near--too old for a new place. There isn't a vacant cottage in the
whole neighbourhood--as you know; and scores that ought to be built.

"As to the right-of-way business, Melrose's fences are all up again, his rascally lawyers,
Nash at the head, are as busy as bees trumping up his case; and I can only suppose that he
has been forcing Faversham to write the unscrupulous letters about it that have been appearing
in some of the papers.

"What makes it all rather gruesome is that there are the most persistent rumours that the young
man has been adopted by Melrose, and will probably be his heir. I can't give you any proofs,
but I am certain that all the people about the Tower believe it. If so, he will no doubt be
well paid for his soul! But sell it he must, or go. I have no doubt he thought he could manage
Melrose. Poor devil!

"The whole thing makes me very sick--I liked him so much while he was my patient. And I expect
you and Lady Tatham will be pretty disappointed too."

      *       *       *       *       *

Victoria returned the letter to her son, pointing to the last sentence.

"It depends on what you expected. I never took to the young man."

"Why doesn't he insist--or go!" cried Tatham.

"Apparently Melrose has bought him."

"I say, don't let's believe that till we know!"

When his mother left him, Tatham took his way to the moor, and spent an uncomfortable hour
in rumination. Lydia had spoken of Faversham once or twice in her early letters from the south;
but lately there had been no references to him at all. Was she disappointed--or too much interested?--too
deeply involved? A vague but gnawing jealousy was fastening on Tatham day by day; and he had
not been able to conceal it from his mother. Lydia was free--of course she was free! But friends
have their right too. "If she is really going that way, I ought to know," thought poor Tatham.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile Lydia herself would have been hard put to it to say whither she was going. But that
moral and intellectual landscape which had lain so clear before her when she left Green Cottage
was certainly beginning to blur; the mists were descending upon it.

She spent the August and September days working feverishly hard in Delorme's studio, and her
evenings in a pleasant society of young artists, of both sexes, all gathered at the feet of
the great man. But her mind was often far away; and rational theories as to the true relations
between men and women were neither so clear nor so supporting as they had been.

She had now two intimate men friends; two ardent and devoted correspondents. Scarcely a day
passed that she was not in touch with both of them. Her knowledge of the male temperament and
male ways of looking at things was increasing fast. So far she had her desire. And in her correspondence
with the two men, she had amply "played up." She had given herself--her thoughts, feelings,
imaginations--to both; in different ways, and different degrees.

And what was happening? Simply a natural, irresistible discrimination, which was like the slow
inflooding of the tide through the river mouth it forces. Tatham's letters were all pleasure.
Not a word of wooing in them. He had given his word, and he kept it. But the unveiling of a
character so simple, strong, and honest, to the eyes of this girl of four-and-twenty, conveyed
of itself a tribute that could not but rouse both gratitude and affection in Lydia. She did
her best to reward him; and so far her "ideas" had worked.

Faversham's letters, on the other hand, from the governing event of the day, had now become
a pain and a distress. The exultant and exuberant self-confidence of the earlier correspondence,
the practical dreams on paper which had stirred her enthusiasm and delight--they came, it seemed
to her, to a sudden and jarring end, somewhere about the opening of September. The change was
evidently connected with the return of Mr. Melrose from abroad just at that time. The letters
grew rambling, evasive, contradictory. Doubt and bitterness began to appear in them. She asked
for facts about his work, and they were not given her. Instead the figure of Melrose rose on
the horizon, till he dominated the correspondence, a harsh and fantastic task-master, to whose
will and conscience it was useless to appeal.

When two months of this double correspondence had gone by, and in the absence of Lydia's usual
friends and correspondents from the Pengarth neighbourhood, no other information from the north
had arrived to supplement Faversham's letters, Susy, who was in the Tyrol with a friend, might
have drawn ample "copy," from her sister's condition, had she witnessed it. Lydia was most
clearly unhappy. She was desperately interested, and full of pity; yet apparently powerless
to help. There was a tug at her heart, a grip on her thoughts, which increased perpetually.
Faversham wrote to her often like a guilty man; why, she could not imagine. The appeal of his
letters to her had begun to shake her nerves, to haunt her nights. She longed for the October
day when Green Cottage would be free from its tenants, and she once more on the spot.

With the second week of October, Lady Tatham returned to Duddon. Tatham would have been with
her, but that he was detained, grumbling, by a political demonstration at Newcastle. Never
had he felt political speech-making so tedious. But for a foolish promise to talk drivel to
a crowd of people who knew even less about the subject than he, he might have been spending
the evening with Lydia. For the strangers in Green Cottage had departed, and Lydia was again
within his reach.

The return to Duddon after an absence had never lost its freshness for Victoria. Woman of fifty
as she was, she was still a bundle of passions, in the intellectual and poetic sense. The sight
of her own fells and streams, the sound of the Cumbrian "aa's," and "oo's," the scurrying of
the sheep among the fern, the breath of the wind in the Glendarra woods, the scent of moss
and heather--these things rilled her with just the same thrills and gushes of delight as in
her youth. Such thrills and gushes were for her own use only; she never offered them for inspection
by other people.

She had no sooner looked at her letters, and chatted with her housekeeper, on the day of her
return, than clothed in her oldest gown and thickest shoes, she went out wandering by herself
through the October dusk; ravished by the colour in which autumn had been wrapping the Cumbrian
earth since she had beheld it last; the purples and golds and amethysts, the touches of emerald
green, the fringes of blue and purple mist; by the familiar music of the streams, which is
not as the Scotch music; and the scents of the hills, which are not as the scents of the Highlands.
Yet all the time she was thinking of Harry and Lydia Penfold; trying to plan the winter, and
what she was to do.

It was dark, with a rising moon when she got back to Duddon. The butler, an old servant, was
watching for her in the hall. She noticed disturbance in his manner.

"There are two ladies, my lady, in the drawing-room."

"Two ladies!--Hurst!" The tone was reproachful. Victoria did not always suffer her neighbours
gladly, and Hurst knew her ways. The first evening at home was sacred.

"I could not help it, my lady. I told them you were out, and might not be in till dark. They
said they must see you--they had come from Italy--and it was most important."

"From Italy!" repeated Victoria, wondering--"who on earth--Did they give their name?"

"No, my lady, they said you'd know them quite well."

Victoria hurried on to the drawing-room. Two figures rose as she entered the room, which was
only lit by the firelight; and then stood motionless.

Victoria advanced bewildered.

"Will you kindly tell me your names?"

"Don't you remember me, Lady Tatham?" said a low, excited voice.

Victoria turned on an electric switch close to her hand, and the room was suddenly in a blaze
of light. She looked in scrutinizing astonishment at the figure in dingy black, standing before
her, and at a girl, looking about sixteen--deathly pale--who seemed to be leaning on a chair
in the background.

That strange, triangular face, with the sharp chin, and the abnormal eyes--where, in what dim
past, had she seen it before? For some seconds memory wrestled. Then, old and new came together;
and she recognized her visitor.

"Mrs. Melrose!" she said, in incredulous amazement. The woman in black came nearer, and spoke
brokenly--the bitter emotion beneath gradually forcing its way.

"I am in great distress--I don't know what to do. My daughter and I are starving--and I remembered
you'd come to see me--that once--at Threlfall. I knew all about you. I've asked English people
often. I thought perhaps you'd help me--you'd tell me how to make my husband do something for
me--for me--and for his daughter! Look at her"--Netta paused and pointed--"she's ill--she's
dropping. We had to hurry through from Lucca. We couldn't afford to stop on the way. We sold
everything we had; some people collected a hundred francs for us; and we just managed to buy
our tickets. Felicia didn't want to come, but I made her. I couldn't see her die before my
eyes. We've starved for months. We've parted with everything, and I've written to Mr. Melrose
again and again. He's never answered--till a few weeks ago, and he said if we troubled him
again he'd stop the money. He's a bad, bad man."

Shaking, her teeth chattering, her hands clenched at her side, the forlorn creature stared
at Victoria. She was not old, but she was a wreck; a withered, emaciated wreck of the woman
Victoria had once seen twenty years before.

Victoria, laying a gentle hand upon her, drew an armchair forward.

"Sit down, please, and rest. You shall have food directly. I will have rooms got ready. And
this is your daughter?"

She went up to the girl who stood shivering like her mother, and speechless. But her proud
black eyes met Victoria's with a passion in them that seemed to resent a touch, a look. "She
ought to be lovely!" thought Victoria; "she is--if one could feed and dress her."

"You poor child! Come and lie down."

She took hold of the girl and guided her to a sofa. When they reached it, the little creature
fell half fainting upon it. But she controlled herself by an astonishing effort, thanked Victoria
in Italian, and curling herself up in a corner she closed her eyes. The white profile on the
dark sofa cushion was of a most delicate perfection, and as Victoria helped to remove her hat
she saw a small dark head covered with short curls like a boy's.

Netta Melrose looked round the beautiful room, its pictures, its deep sofas and chairs, its
bright fire, and then at the figures of Victoria and the housekeeper in the distance. Victoria
was giving her orders. The tears were on Netta's cheeks. Yet she had the vague, ineffable feeling
of one just drawn from the waves. She had done right. She had saved herself and Felicia.

Food was brought, and wine. They were coaxed to eat, warmed and comforted. Then Victoria took
them up through the broad, scented passages of the beautiful house to rooms that had been got
ready for them.

"Don't talk any more to-night. You shall tell me everything to-morrow. My maid will help you.
I will come back presently to see you have everything you want."

Felicia, frowning, wished to unpack their small hand-bag, with its shabby contents, for herself.
But she was too feeble, and the maid, in spite of what seemed to the two forlorn ones her fine
clothes and fine ways, was kind and tactful. Victoria's wardrobe was soon laid under contribution;
beautiful linen, and soft silken things she possessed but seldom wore, were brought out for
her destitute guests.

Victoria came in to say good-night. Netta looked at the stately woman, the hair just beginning
to be gray, the strong face with its story of fastidious thought, of refined and sheltered living.

"You're awfully good to us. It's twenty years!--" Her voice failed her.

"Twenty years--yes, indeed! since I drove over to see you that time! Your daughter was a little
toddling thing."

"We've had such a life--these last few years--oh, such an awful life! My old father's still
alive--but would be better if he were dead. My mother depended on us entirely--she's dead.
But I'll explain everything--everything."

It was clear, however, that till sleep had knit up the ravelled nerves of the poor lady, no
coherent conversation was possible. Victoria hastened to depart.

"To-morrow you shall tell me all about yourself. My son will be home to-morrow. We will consult
him and see what can be done."

Mother and daughter were left alone. Felicia rose feebly to go to her own room, which adjoined
her mother's. She was wearing a dressing-gown of embroidered silk--pale blue, and shimmering--which
Victoria's maid had wrapped her in, after the child's travelling clothes, thread-bare and mud-stained,
had been taken off. The girl's tiny neck and wrists emerged from it, her little head, and her
face from which weariness and distress had robbed all natural bloom. What she was wearing,
or how she looked, she did not know and did not care. But her mother, in whom dress had been
for years a passion never to be indulged, was suddenly--though all her exhaustion--enchanted
with her daughter's appearance.

"Oh, Felicia, you look so nice!"

She took up the silk of the dressing-gown and passed it through her fingers covetously; then
her tired eyes ran over the room, the white bed standing ready, the dressing-table with its
silver ornaments and flowers, the chintz-covered sofas and chairs.

"Why shouldn't we be rich too?" she said angrily. "Your father is richer than the Tathams.
It's a wicked, wicked shame!"

Felicia put her hand to her head.

"Oh, do let me go to bed," she said in Italian.

Netta put her arm round her, supporting her. Presently they passed a portrait on the wall,
an enlarged photograph of a boy in cricketing dress.

Underneath it was written:

"Harry. Eton Eleven. July 189---."

Felicia for the first time showed a gleam of interest. She stopped to look at the picture.

"Who is it?"

"It must be her son, Lord Tatham."

The girl's sunken eyes seemed to drink in the pleasant image of the English boy.

"Shall we see him?"

"Of course. To-morrow. Now come to bed!"

Felicia's head was no sooner on the pillow than she plunged into sleep. Netta, on the other
hand, was for a long time sleepless. The luxury of the bed and the room was inexpressibly delightful
and reviving to her. Recollections of a small bare house in the Apuan Alps above Lucca, and
of all that she and Felicia had endured there, ran through her mind, mingled with visions of
Threlfall as she had known it of old, its choked passages--the locked room from which she had
stolen the Hermes--the great table in Edmund's room with its litter of bric-à-brac--Edmund
himself....

She trembled; alternately desperate, and full of fears. The thought that Melrose was only a
few miles from her--that she was going to face and brave him after all these years--turned
her cold with terror. And yet misery had made her reckless.

"He shall provide for us!" She gathered up her weak soul into this supreme resolve. How wise
she had been to follow the sudden impulse which had bade her appeal to the Tathams! Were they
not her kinsfolk by marriage?

They knew what Edmund was! They were kind and powerful. They would protect her, and take up
her cause. Edmund was now an old man. If he died, who else had a right to his money but she
and Felicia? Oh! Lady Tatham would help them; she'd see them righted! Cradled in that hope,
Netta Melrose at last fell asleep.

XIV

Tatham arrived at Duddon by the earliest possible train on the following morning.

On crossing the hall he perceived in the distance a very slight thin girl, dressed in black,
coming out of his mother's sitting-room. When she saw him she turned hurriedly to the stairs
and ran up, only pausing once on the first landing to flash upon him a singularly white face,
lit by singularly black eyes. Then she disappeared.

"Who is that lady?" he asked of Hurst in astonishment.

"Her ladyship expects you, my lord," replied Hurst evasively, throwing open the door of the
morning-room. Victoria was disclosed; pacing up and down, her hands in the pockets of her tweed
jacket. Tatham saw at once that something had happened.

She put her hands on his shoulders, kissed him, and delivered her news. She did so with a peculiar
and secret zest. To watch how he took the fresh experiences of life, and to be exultantly proud
and sure of him the while, was all part of her adoration of him.

"Melrose's wife and daughter! Great Scot! So they're not dead?" Tatham stood amazed.

"He seems to have done his best to kill them. They're starved--and destitute. But here they are."

"And why in the name of fortune do they come to us?"

"We are cousins, my dear--and I saw her twenty years ago. It isn't a bad move. Indeed the foolish
woman might have come before."

"But what on earth can we do for them?"

The young man sat down bewildered, while his mother told the story, piecing it together from
the rambling though copious narrative, which she had gathered that morning from Netta in her
bed, where she had been forced to remain, at least for breakfast.

After her flight, Melrose's fugitive wife had settled down with her child in Florence, under
the wing of her own family. But they were a shiftless, importunate crew, and, in the course
of years, every one of them came more or less visibly to grief. Her sisters married men of
the same dubious world as themselves, and were always in difficulties. Netta's eldest brother
got into trouble with the bank where he was employed, and another brother, as a deserter from
the army, had to make his escape to South America. The father, Robert Smeath, had found it
more and more difficult to earn anything on which to keep his belongings, and as a picture
dealer seemed to have fallen into bad odour with the Italian authorities, for reasons of which
Netta could give no account.

"And how much do you think Mr. Melrose allowed his wife and child?" asked Victoria, her eyes
sparkling. "Eighty pounds a year!--on which in the end the whole family seem to have lived.
Finally, the mother died, and Mr. Smeath got into some scrape or other--I naturally avoided
the particulars--which involved pledging half Mrs. Melrose's allowance for five years. And
on the rest--forty pounds--she and her daughter, and her old father have been trying to live
for the last two. You never heard such a story! They found a small half-ruined villa in the
mountains north of Pisa, and there they somehow existed. They couldn't afford nursing or doctoring
for the old father; they were half starved; the mother and daughter have both actually worked
in the vineyards; and, of course, they had no servant. You should see the poor woman's hands!
Then she began to write to her husband. No reply--for eighteen months, no reply--till just
lately, an intimation from the Florentine bank, that if any more similar letters were addressed
to Mr. Melrose the allowance would be stopped."

"Old fiend!" cried Tatham, "now we'll get at him!"

Victoria went on to describe how, at last, an English family who had taken one of the old villas
on the Luccan Alps for the summer had come across the forlorn trio. They were scandalized by
the story, and they had impressed on Mrs. Melrose that she and her daughter had a legal right
to suitable maintenance from her husband. Urged by them--and starvation--Netta had at last
plucked up courage. The old father was left in the charge of a contadino family, a small loan
was raised for them to which the English visitors contributed, and the mother and daughter
started for home.

"But without us, or some one else to help her," said Victoria, "she would never--never!--get
through the business. Her terror of Melrose is a perfect disease. She shakes if you mention
his name. That was what made her think of me--and that visit I paid her. Poor thing! she was
rather pretty then. But it was plain enough what their relations were. Well, now, Harry, it's
for you to say. But my blood's up! I suggest we see this thing through!"

The door slowly opened as she spoke, and two small figures came in silently, closing it behind
them. There they stood, a story in themselves; Netta, with the bearing and the dress of a shabby
little housekeeper; the girl ghastly thin, her shoulder-blades cutting her flimsy dress, blue
shadows in all the hollows of the face, but with extraordinary pride of bearing, and extraordinary
possibilities of beauty in the modelling of her delicate features, and splendid melancholy
eyes. Tatham could not help staring at her. She was indeed the disinherited princess.

Then he walked up to them, and shook hands with boyish heartiness.

"I say, you do look pumped out! But don't you worry too much. My mother and I'll see what can
be done. We'll set the lawyers on, if there's nothing else. It's a beastly shame, anyway! But
now, you take it easy. We'll look after you. Sit down, won't you? Mother's chairs are the most
comfortable in the house!"

He installed them; and then at once took the serious, business air, which still gave his mother
a pleasure which was half amusement. Felicia, sitting in a corner behind her mother's sofa,
could not take her eyes from him. The tall, fair English youth, six foot two, and splendidly
developed, the pink of health, modesty, and kindly courtesy, was different from all other beings
that had ever swum into her view. She watched him close and furtively--his features, his dress,
his gestures; comparing the living man in her mind with the photograph upstairs, and so absorbed
in her study of him that she scarcely heard a word of the triangular discussion going on between
her mother, Tatham, and Victoria. The whole time she was drinking in impressions, as of a god-like
creature, all beneficence.

After an hour's cross-examination of the poor, shrinking Netta, Tatham's blood too was up;
he was eager for the fray. To attack Melrose was a joy; made none the less keen by the reflection
that to help these two helpless ones was a duty. Lydia's approval, Lydia's sympathy were certain;
he kindled the more.

"All right!" he said, rising. "Now I think we are agreed on the first step. Faversham is our
man. I must see Faversham at once, and set him to work! If I find him, I will report the result
to you, Mrs. Melrose--so far--by luncheon time."

He departed, to ring up the Threlfall office in Pengarth and inquire whether Faversham could
be seen there. Victoria left the room with him.

"Have you forgotten these rumours of which Undershaw wrote you?"

"What, as to Faversham? No, I have not forgotten them. But I shan't take any notice of them.
He can't accept anything for himself till these two have got their due! What right has he to
Melrose's property at all?" said the young man indignantly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The mother and son had scarcely left the room when Netta turned to her daughter with trembling
lips.

"I haven't"--half whispering--"told them anything about the Hermes!"

"It was no theft!" said Felicia passionately. "I would tell anybody!"

Netta was silent, her face working with unspoken fear. Suddenly, Felicia said in her foreign
English, pronounced with a slight effort, and very precisely:

"That is a very beautiful young man!"

Netta was startled.

"Lord Tatham? Not at all, Felicia. He is very nice, but I do not even call him good-looking."

"He is a very beautiful young man," repeated Felicia with emphasis, "and I am going to marry him!"

"Felicia! for heaven's sake--do not show your mad ways here!" cried Netta, white with new alarm.

For the first time for many, many days Felicia smiled. She got up and went to a glass that
hung on the wall. Taking one of the sidecombs from her curls, she began to pull them out, winding
them round her tiny fingers, making more of them, and patting them back into place, till her
head was one silky mass of ripples. Then she looked at herself.

"I must have a new dress at once!" she said peremptorily.

"I don't know where you'll get it!" cried Netta--"you foolish child!"

"The young man will give it me." And still before the glass, she gave a little bound, like
a kitten. Then she ran back to her mother, took Netta's face in her hands, dashed a kiss at
it, and subsided, weak and gasping, on to a sofa. When Victoria reappeared Felicia was motionless
as before, but there was a first streak of colour in her thin, cheeks, and a queer brightness
in her eyes.

Faversham was sitting in his Pengarth office, turning over the morning's post. He had just
ridden in from the Tower. Before him lay a telephone message taken down for him by his clerk,
before his arrival:

"Lord Tatham will be at Mr. Faversham's office by 12:30. He wishes to speak to Mr. Faversham
on important business."

Something, no doubt, to do with the right-of-way proceedings to which Tatham was a party; or,
possibly, with a County Council notice which had roused Melrose to fury, to the effect that
some Threlfall land would be taken compulsorily for allotments under a recent Act, if the land
were not provided by arrangement.

"Perfectly reasonable! And every complaint that Tatham will make--if he has come to complain--will
be perfectly reasonable. And I shall have to tell him to go to the devil!"

He sat pen in hand, staring at the paper on his desk, his mind divided between a bitter disgust
with his day's work and the consciousness of a deep central resolve, which that disgust did
not affect, and would not be allowed to affect. He was looking harassed, pale, and perceptibly
older. No doubt his general health had not yet fully recovered from his accident. But those
who disliked in him a certain natural haughtiness, said that he had now more "side on" than ever.

A bell below warned him of Tatham's arrival. He hurriedly took out papers from various drawers,
and arranged them on the office table. They related to the matter on which he thought Tatham
might wish to confer with him.

His door opened.

"Hullo, Faversham! Hope you're quite strong," said the incomer.

"All right, thank you." The two men shook hands. "You've been doing Scotland as usual?"

"Two months of it. Beastly few birds. Not at all sorry to come back. Well, now--I've got something
very surprising to talk to you about. I say"--he looked round him--"we shan't be disturbed?"

Faversham rose, gave a telephone order and resumed his seat.

"Who do you think we've got staying at Duddon?"

"I haven't an idea. Have a cigarette?"

"Thanks. Has Melrose ever talked to you about his wife and daughter?"

Faversham stared, took a whiff at his cigarette, and put it down.

"Are you her to tell me anything about them?"

"They are staying at Duddon at this moment," said Tatham, watching his effect; "arrived last
night--penniless and starving."

Faversham flushed.

"You're sure they are the right people?" he said after a pause.

Tatham laughed.

"My mother remembers Mrs. Melrose twenty years ago; and the daughter, if it weren't that she's
little more than skin and bone, would be the image of Melrose--on a tiny scale. Now, look here!
this is their story."

The young man settled down to it, telling it just as it had been told to him, until toward
the end a tolerably hot indignation forced its way, and he used some strong language with regard
to Melrose, under which Faversham sat silent.

"I've no doubt he's told you the same lies he's told everybody else!" exclaimed Tatham, after
waiting a little for comments that were slow in coming.

"I was quite aware they were alive," said Faversham, slowly.

"You were, by Jove!"

"And I have already appealed to Melrose to behave reasonably toward them."

"Reasonably! Good heavens!" Tatham had flushed in his turn. "A man is bound to behave rather
more than 'reasonably'--toward his daughter, anyway--I don't care what the mother had done.
I tell you the girl's a real beauty, or will be, when she's properly fed and dressed. She's
a girl anybody might be proud of. And there he's been wallowing in wealth, while his child
has been starving. And threatening to stop their wretched allowance! Well, you know as well
as I, what public opinion will be, if these facts get about. Public opinion is pretty strong
already. But, by George, when this is added to the rest! Can't you persuade him to behave himself
before it all gets into the papers? It will get into them of course. There the poor things
are, and we mean to stand by them. There must be a proper provision for the wife--that the
courts can get out of him. And as to the girl--why, she is his heiress!--and ought to be acknowledged
as such."

Tatham turned suddenly, as he spoke, and fixed a pair of very straight blue eyes on his companion.

"Mr. Melrose is not bound to make her his heir," said Faversham quietly.

"Not bound! I daresay. But who else is there? He's not very likely to leave it to any of us,"
said Tatham with a grin. "And he's not the kind of gentleman to be endowing missions. Who is
there?" he repeated.

"Mr. Melrose will please himself," said Faversham, coldly. "Of that we may be sure. Now then--what
is it exactly that these ladies have come to ask?" he continued, in a sharp businesslike tone.
"You are aware of course that Mrs. Melrose left her husband of her own free will--without any
provocation?"

"You won't get a judge to believe that very easily--in the case of Melrose! Anyway she's done
nothing criminal. And she's willing, poor wretch! to go back to him. But if not, she asks for
a maintenance allowance, suitable to his wealth and position, and that the daughter should
be provided for. You can't surely refuse to support us so far?"

Tatham had insensibly stiffened in his chair. His manner which at first, though not exactly
cordial, had still been that of the college friend and contemporary, had unconsciously, in
the course of the conversation, assumed a certain tone of authority, as though there spoke
through him the force of a settled and traditional society, of which he knew himself to be
one of the natural chiefs.

To Faversham, full of a secret bitterness, this second manner of Tatham's was merely arrogance.
His own pride rose against it, and what he felt it implied. Not a sign of that confidence in
the new agent which had been so freely expressed at Duddon a couple of months before! His detractors
had no doubt been at work with this jolly, stupid fellow, whom everybody liked. He would have
to fight for himself. Well, he would fight!

"I shall certainly support any just claim," he said, as Tatham rose, "but I warn you that Mr.
Melrose is ill--he is very irritable--and Mrs. Melrose had better not attempt to spring any
surprises on him. If she will write me a letter, I will see that it gets to Mr. Melrose, and
I will do my best for her."

"No one could ask you to do any more," said Tatham heartily, repenting himself a little. "They
will be with us for the present. Mrs. Melrose shall write you a full statement and you will
reply to Duddon?"

"By all means."

"There are a good many other things," said Tatham--uncertainly--as he lingered, hat in hand--"that
you and I might discuss--Mainstairs, for instance! I ought to tell you that my mother has just
sent two nurses there. The condition of things is simply appalling."

Faversham straightened his tall figure.

"Mainstairs is a deadlock. Mr. Melrose won't repair the cottages. He intends to pull them down.
He has given the people notice, and he is receiving no rent. They won't go. I suppose the next
step will be to apply for an ejectment order. Meanwhile the people stay at their own peril.
There you have the whole thing."

"I hear the children are dying like flies."

"I can do nothing," said Faversham.

Again a shock of antagonism passed through the two men. "Yes, you can!" thought Tatham; "you
can resign your fat post, and your expectations, and put the screw on the old man, that's what
you could do." Aloud he said:

"A couple of thousand pounds, according to Undershaw, would do the job. If you succeed in forcing
them out, where are they to go?"

"That's not our affair."

Tatham caught up his hat and stick, and abruptly departed; reflecting indeed when he reached
the street, that he had not been the most diplomatic of ambassadors on Mrs. Melrose's behalf.

Faversham, after some ten minutes of motionless reflection, heavily returned to his papers,
ordering his horse to be ready in half an hour. He forced himself to write some ordinary business
letters, and to eat some lunch, and immediately after he started on horseback to find his way
through the October lanes to the village of Mainstairs.

A man more harassed, and yet more resolved, it would have been difficult to find. For six weeks
now he had been wading deeper and deeper into a moral quagmire from which he saw no issue at
all--except indeed by the death of Edmund Melrose! That event would solve all difficulties.

For some time now he had been convinced, not only that the mother and daughter were living,
but that there had been some recent communication between them and Melrose. Various trifling
incidents and cryptic sayings of the old man, not now so much on his guard as formerly, had
led Faversham to this conclusion. He realized that he himself had been haunted of late by the
constant expectation that they might turn up.

Well, now they had turned up. Was he at once to make way for them, as Tatham clearly took for
granted?--to advise Melrose to tear up his newly made will, and gracefully surrender his expectations
as Melrose's heir to this girl of twenty-one? By no means!

What is the claim of birth in such a case, if you come to that? Look at it straight in the
face. A child is born to a certain father; is then torn from that father against his will,
and brought up for twenty years out of his reach. What claim has that child, when mature, upon
the father--beyond, of course, a claim for reasonable provision--unless he chooses to acknowledge
a further obligation? None whatever. The father has lived his life, and accumulated his fortune,
without the child's help, without the child's affection or tendance. His possessions are morally
and legally his own, to deal with as he pleases.

In the course of life, other human beings become connected with him, attached to him, and he
to them. Natural claims must be considered and decently satisfied--agreed! But for the disposal
of a man's superfluities, of such a fortune as Melrose's, there is no law--there ought to be
no law; and the English character, as distinct from the French, has decided that there shall
be no law. "If his liking, or his caprice even," thought Faversham passionately, "chooses to
make me his heir, he has every right to give, and I to accept. I am a stranger to him; so,
in all but the physical sense, is his daughter. But I am not a stranger to English life. My
upbringing and experience--even such as they are--are better qualifications than hers. What
can a girl of twenty, partly Italian, brought up away from England, hardly speaking her father's
tongue, do for this English estate, compared to what I could do--with a free hand, and a million
to draw on? Whom do I wrong by accepting what a miraculous chance has brought me--by standing
by it--by fighting for it? No one--justly considered. And I will fight for it--though a hundred
Tathams call me adventurer!"

So much for the root determination of the man; the result of weeks of excited brooding over
wealth, and what can be done with wealth, amid increasing difficulties and problems from all sides.

His determination indeed did not protect him from the attacks of conscience; of certain moral
instincts and prepossessions, that is, natural to a man of his birth and environment.

The mind, however, replied to them glibly enough. "I shall do the just and reasonable thing!
As I promised Tatham, I shall look into the story of these two women, and if it is what it
professes to be, I shall press Melrose to provide for them."

Conscience objected: "If he refuses?"

"They can enforce their claim legally, and I shall make him realize it."

"Can you?" said Conscience. "Have you any hold upon him at all?"

A flood of humiliation, indeed, rushed in upon him, as he recalled his effort, while Melrose
was away in August, to make at least some temporary improvement in the condition of the Mainstairs
cottages--secretly--out of his own money--by the help of the cottagers themselves. The attempt
had been reported to Melrose by that spying little beast, Nash, and peremptorily stopped by
telegram--"Kindly leave my property alone. It is not yours to meddle with."

And that most abominable scene, after Melrose's return to the Tower! Faversham could never
think of it without shame and disgust. Ten times had he been on the point of dashing down his
papers at Melrose's feet, and turning his back on the old madman, and his house, forever. It
was, of course, the thought of the gifts he had already accepted, and of that vast heritage
waiting for him when Melrose should be in his grave, which had restrained him--that alone;
no cynic could put it more nakedly than did Faversham's own thoughts. He was tied and bound
by his own actions, and his own desires; he had submitted--grovelled to a tyrant; and he knew
well enough that from that day he had been a lesser and a meaner man.

But--no silly exaggeration! He straightened himself in his saddle. He was doing plenty of good
work elsewhere, work with which Melrose did not trouble himself to interfere; work which would
gradually tell upon the condition and happiness of the estate. Put that against the other.
Men are not plaster saints--or, still less, live ones, with the power of miracle; but struggling
creatures of flesh and blood, who do, not what they will, but what they can.

And suddenly he seemed once more to be writing to Lydia Penfold. How often he had written to
her during these two months! He recalled the joy of the earlier correspondence, in which he
had been his natural self, pleading, arguing, planning; showing all the eagerness--the sincere
eagerness--there was in him, to make a decent job of his agency, to stand well with his new
neighbours--above all with "one slight girl."

And her letters to him--sweet, frank, intelligent, sympathetic--they had been his founts of
refreshing, his manna by the way. Until that fatal night, when Melrose had crushed in him all
that foolish optimism and self-conceit with which he had entered into the original bargain!
Since then, he knew well that his letters had chilled and disappointed her; they had been the
letters of a slave.

And now this awful business at Mainstairs! Bessie Dobbs, the girl of eighteen--Lydia's friend--who
had been slowly dying since the diphtheria epidemic of the year before, was dead at last, after
much suffering; and he did not expect to find the child of eight, her little sister, still
alive. There were nearly a score of other cases, and there were three children down with scarlet
fever, besides some terrible attacks of blood-poisoning--one after childbirth--due probably
to some form of the scarlet fever infection, acting on persons weakened by the long effect
of filthy conditions. What would Lydia say, when she knew--when she came? From her latest letter
it was not clear to him on what day she would reach home. After making his inspection he would
ride on to Green Cottage and inquire. He dreaded to meet her; and yet he was eager to defend
himself; his mind was already rehearsing all that he would say.

A long lane, shaded by heavy trees, made an abrupt turning, and he saw before him the Mainstairs
village--one straggling street of wretched houses, mostly thatched, and built of "clay-lump,"
whitewashed. In a county of prosperous farming, and good landlords, where cottages had been
largely rebuilt during the preceding century, this miserable village, with various other hamlets
and almost all the cottages attached to farms on the Melrose estate, were the scandal of the
countryside. Roofs that let in rain and wind, clay floors, a subsoil soaked in every possible
abomination, bedrooms "more like dens for wild animals than sleeping-places for men and women,"
to quote a recent Government report, and a polluted water supply!--what more could reckless
human living, aided by human carelessness and cruelty, have done to make a hell of natural beauty?

Over the village rose the low shoulder of a grassy fell, its patches of golden fern glistening
under the October sunshine; great sycamores, with their rounded masses of leaf, hung above
the dilapidated roofs, as though Nature herself tried to shelter the beings for whom men had
no care; the thatched slopes were green with moss and weed; and the blue smoke wreaths that
rose from the chimneys, together with the few flowers that gleamed in the gardens, the picturesque
irregularity of the houses, and the general setting of wood and distant mountain, made of the
poisoned village a "subject," on which a wandering artist, who had set up his canvas at the
corner of the road, was at the moment, indeed, hard at work. There might be death in those
houses; but out of the beauty which sunshine strikes from ruin, a man, honestly in search of
a few pounds, was making what he could.

To Faversham's overstrung mind the whole scene was as the blood-stained palace of the Atreidae
to the agonized vision of Cassandra. He saw it steeped in death--death upon death--and dreaded
of what new "murder" he might hear as soon as he approached the houses. For what was it but
murder? His conscience, arguing with itself, did not dispute the word. Had Melrose, out of
his immense income, spent a couple of thousand pounds on the village at any time during the
preceding years, a score of deaths would have been saved, and the physical degeneracy of a
whole population would have been prevented.

       *       *       *       *       *

Heavens! that light figure in Dobbs's garden, talking with the old shepherd--his heart leapt
and then sickened. It was Lydia.

A poignant fear stirred in him. He gave his horse a touch of the whip, and was at her side.

"Miss Penfold!--you oughtn't to be here! For heaven's sake go home!"

Lydia, who in the absorption of her talk with the shepherd had not heard his approach, turned
with a start. Her face was one of passionate grief--there were tears on her cheek.

"Oh, Mr. Faversham--"

"The child?" he asked, as he dismounted.

"She died--last night."

"Aye, an' there's another doon--t' li'le boy--t' three-year-old," said old Dobbs sharply, straightening
himself on his stick, at sight of the agent.

"The nurses are here?" said Faversham after a pause.

"Aye," said the shepherd, turning toward his cottage, "but they can do nowt. The childer are
marked for deein afore they're sick." And he walked away, his inner mind shaken with a passion
that forbade him to stay and talk with Melrose's agent.

Two or three labourers who were lounging in front of their houses came slowly toward the agent.
It was evident that there was unemployment as well as disease in the village, and that the
neighbouring farms, where there were young children, were cutting themselves off, as much as
they could, from the Mainstairs infection, by dismissing the Mainstairs men.

Faversham meanwhile again implored Lydia to go home. "This whole place reeks with infection.
You ought not to be here."

"They say that nothing has been done!"

Her tone was quiet, but her look pierced.

"I tried. It was impossible. The only thing that could be done was that the people should go.
They are under notice. Every single person is here in defiance of the law. The police will
have to be called in."

"And where are we to goa, sir!" cried one of the men who had come up. "Theer's noa house to
be had nearer than Pengarth--yo' know that yoursen--an' how are we to be waakin' fower mile
to our work i' t' mornin', an' fower mile back i' t' evening? Why, we havena got t' strength!
It isna exactly a health resort--yo' ken--Mainstairs!"

"I'll tell yo' where soom on us might goa, Muster Faversham," said another older man, removing
the pipe he had been stolidly smoking; "theer's two farmhouses o' Melrose's, within half a
mile o' this place--shut oop--noabody there. They're big houses--yan o' them wor an' owd manor-house,
years agone. A body might put oop five or six families in 'em at a pinch. Thattens might dëa
for a beginnin'; while soom o' these houses were coomin' doon."

Lydia turned eagerly to Faversham.

"Couldn't that be done--some of the families with young children that are not yet attacked?"
Her eyes hung on him.

He shook his head. He had already proposed something of the sort to Melrose. It had been vetoed.

The men watched him. At last one of them--a lanky youth, with a frowning, ironic expression
and famous as a heckler at public meetings--said with slow emphasis:

"There'll coom a day i' this coontry, mates, when men as treat poor foak like Muster Melrose,
'ull be pulled off t' backs of oos an' our like. And may aa live to see 't!"

"Aye! aye!" came in deep assent from the others, as they turned away. But one white and sickly
fellow looked back to say:

"An' it's a graat pity for a yoong mon like you, sir, to be doin' Muster Melrose's dirty work--taakin'
o' the police--as though yo' had 'em oop your sleeve!"

"Haven't I done what I could for you?" cried Faversham, stung by the reproach, and its effect
on Lydia's face.

"Aye--mebbe--but it's nowt to boast on." The man, middle aged but prematurely old, stood still,
trembling from head to foot. "My babe as wor born yesterday, deed this mornin'; an' they say
t' wife 'ull lig beside it afore night."

There was a sombre silence. Faversham broke it. "I must see the nurses," he said to Lydia;
"but again, I beg of you to go! I will send you news."

"I will wait for you. Don't be afraid. I won't go indoors."

He went round the houses, watched by the people, as they stood at their doors. He himself was
paying two nurses, and now Lady Tatham had sent two more. He satisfied himself that they had
all the stores which Undershaw had ordered; he left a donation of money with one of them, and
then he returned to Lydia.

They walked together in silence; while a boy from the village led Faversham's horse some distance
in the rear. All that Faversham had meant to say had dropped away from him. His planned defence
of himself could find no voice.

"You too blame me?" he said, at last, hoarsely.

She shook her head sadly.

"I don't know what to think. But when we last met--you were so hopeful--"

"Yes--like a fool. But what can you do--with a madman."

"Can you bear--to be still in his employ?"

She looked up, her beautiful eyes bright and challenging.

"Mainstairs is not the whole estate. If I'm powerless here--I'm not elsewhere--"

She was silent. He turned upon her.

"If you are to misunderstand and mistrust me--then indeed I shall lose heart!"

The feeling, one might almost say the anguish, in his dark, commanding face moved her strangely.
Condemnation and pity--aye, and something else than pity--struggled within her. For the first
time Lydia began to know herself. She was strangely shaken.

"I will try--and understand," she said in a voice that trembled.

"All my power of doing anything depends on it!" he said, passionately. "I can say truly that
things would have been infinitely worse if I had not been here. And I have worked like a horse
to better them--before you came."

She was silent. His appeal to her as to his judge hurt her poignantly. Yet what could she do
or say? Her natural longing was to console; but where were the elements of consolation? Could
anything be worse than what she had seen and heard?

The mingled emotion which silenced her, warned her not to continue the conversation. She perceived
the opening of a side-lane leading back to the river and the Keswick road.

"This is my best way, I think," she said, pausing, and holding out her hand. "The pony-cart
is waiting for me at Whitebeck."

He looked at her in distress, yet also in anger. A friend might surely have stood by him more
cordially, believed in him more simply.

"You are at home again? I may come and see you."

"Please! We shall want to hear."

Her tone was embarrassed. They parted almost coldly.

Lydia walked quickly home, down a sloping lane from which the ravines of Blencathra, edge behind
edge, chasm beyond chasm, were to be seen against the sunset, and all the intermediate landscape--wood,
and stubble, and ferny slope--steeped in stormy majesties of light. But for once the quick
artist sense was shut against Nature's spectacles. She walked in a blind anguish of self-knowledge
and self-scorn. She who had plumed herself on the poised mind, the mastered senses!

She moaned to herself.

"Why didn't he tell me--warn me! To sell himself to that man--to act for him--defend him--apologize
for him--and for those awful, awful things! An agent must."

And she thought of some indignant talk of Undershaw, which she had heard that morning.

Her moral self was full of repulsion; her heart was torn. Friend? She owned her weakness, and
despised it. Turning aside, she leant a while against a gate, hiding her face from the glory
of the evening. Week by week--she knew it now!--through that frank interchange of mind with
mind, of heart with heart, represented by that earlier correspondence, still more perhaps through
the checks and disappointments of its later phases, Claude Faversham had made his way into
the citadel.

The puny defences she had built about the freedom of her maiden life and will lay in ruins.
Her theories were scattered like the autumn leaves that were scuddering over the fields. His
voice, the very roughened bitterness of it; his eyes, with their peremptory challenge, their
sore accusingness; the very contradictions of the man's personality, now delightful, now repellent,
and, breathing through them all, the passion she must needs divine--of these various impressions,
small and great, she was the struggling captive. Serenity, peace were gone.

Meanwhile, as Faversham rode toward the Tower, absorbed at one moment in a misery of longing,
and the next in a heat of self-defence, perhaps the strongest feeling that finally emerged
was one of dismay that her abrupt leave-taking had prevented him from telling her of that other
matter of which Tatham's visit had informed him. She must hear of it immediately, and from
those who would judge and perhaps denounce him.

Nevertheless, as he dismounted at the Tower, neither the burden of Mainstairs, nor the fear
of Lydia's disapproval, nor the agitation of the news from Duddon, had moved him one jot from
his purpose. A man surely is a coward and a weakling, he thought, who cannot grasp the "skirts
of happy chance," while they are there for the grasping; cannot take what the gods offer, while
they offer it, lest they withdraw it forever.

Yet, suppose, that by his own act, he raised a moral barrier between himself and Lydia Penfold
which such a personality would never permit itself to pass?

His vanity, a touch of natural cynicism, refused, in the end, to let him believe it. His hope
lay in a frank wrestle with her, a frank attack upon her intelligence. He promised himself
to attempt it without delay.

XV

The day following the interview between Tatham and Faversham was a day of expectation for the
inmates of Duddon. On the evening before, Tatham with much toil had extracted a more or less,
coherent statement from Netta Melrose, persuading her to throw it into the form of an appeal
to her husband. "If we can't do anything by reasoning, why then we must try pressure," he had
said to her, in his suavest County Council manner; "but we won't talk law to begin with." The
statement when finished and written out in Netta's childish hand was sent by messenger, late
in the evening, within a covering letter to Faversham, written by Tatham.

Tatham afterward devoted himself till nearly midnight to composing a letter to Lydia. He had
unaccountably missed her that afternoon, for when he arrived at the cottage from Pengarth she
was out, and neither Mrs. Penfold nor Susy knew where she was. In fact she was at Mainstairs,
and with Faversham. She had mistaken a phrase in Tatham's note of the morning, and did not
expect him till later. He had waited an hour for her, under the soft patter of Mrs. Penfold's
embarrassed conversation; and had then ridden home, sorely disappointed, but never for one
instant blaming the beloved.

But later, in the night silence, he poured out to her all his budget: the arrival of the Melroses;
their story; his interview with Faversham; and his plans for helping them to their rights.
To a "friend" it was only allowed, besides, to give restrained expression to his rapturous
joy in being near her again, and his disappointment of the afternoon. He thought over every
word, as he wrote it down, his eyes sometimes a little dim in the lamp-light. The very reserve
imposed upon him did but strengthen his passion. Nor could young hopes believe in ultimate defeat.

At the same time, the thought of Faversham held the background of his mind. Though by now he
himself cordially disliked Faversham, he was quite aware of the attraction the new agent's
proud and melancholy personality might have for women. He had seen it working in Lydia's case,
and he had been uncomfortably aware at one time of the frequent references to Faversham in
Lydia's letters. It was evident that Faversham had pushed the acquaintance with the Penfolds
as far as he could; that he was Lydia's familiar correspondent, and constantly appealing for
help to her knowledge of the country folk. An excellent road to intimacy, as Tatham uneasily
admitted, considering Lydia's love for the people of the dales, and her passionate sympathy
with the victims of Melrose's ill-deeds.

Ah! but the very causes which had been throwing her into an intimacy with Faversham must surely
now be chilling and drawing her back? Tatham, the young reformer, felt an honest indignation
with the failure of Claude Faversham to do the obvious and necessary work he had promised to
do. Tatham, the lover, knew very well that if he had come back to find Faversham the hero of
the piece, with a grateful countryside at his feet, his own jealous anxiety would have been
even greater than it was. For it was great, argue with himself as he might. A dread for which
he could not account often overshadowed him. It was caused perhaps by his constant memory of
Faversham and Lydia on the terrace at Threlfall--of the two faces turned to each other--of
the sudden fusion as it were of the two personalities in a common rush of memories, interests,
and sympathies, in which he himself had no part....

He put up his letter on the stroke of midnight, and then walked his room a while longer, struggling
with himself and the passion of his desire; praying that he might win her. Finally he took
a well-worn Bible from a locked drawer, and read some verses from the Gospel of St. John, quieting
himself. He never went to sleep without reading either a psalm or some portion of the New Testament.
The influence of his Eton tutor had made him a Christian of a simple and convinced type; and
his mother's agnosticism had never affected him. But he and she never talked of religion.

Nothing arrived from Threlfall the following day during the morning. After luncheon, Victoria
announced her intention of going to call on the Penfolds.

"You can follow me there in the motor," she said to her son; "and if any news comes, bring it on."

They were in the drawing-room. Netta, white and silent, was stretched on the sofa, where Victoria
had just spread a shawl over her. Felicia appeared to be turning over an illustrated paper,
but was in reality watching the mother and son out of the corners of her eyes. Everything that
was said containing a mention of the Penfolds struck in her an attentive ear. The casual conversation
of the house had shown her already that there were three ladies--two of them young--who were
living not far from Duddon, and were objects of interest to both Lady Tatham and her son. Flowers
were sent them, and new books. They were not relations; and not quite ordinary acquaintances.
All this had excited a furious curiosity in Felicia. She wished--was determined indeed--to
see these ladies for herself.

"You will hardly want to go out," said Victoria gently, standing by Netta's sofa, and looking
down with kind eyes on the weary woman lying there.

Netta shook her head; then putting out her hand she took Victoria's and pressed it. Victoria
understood that she was waiting feverishly for the answer from Threlfall, and could do nothing
and think of nothing till it arrived.

"And your daughter?" She looked round for Felicia.

"I wish to drive in a motor," said Felicia, rising and speaking with a decision which amused
Victoria. Pending the arrival from London of some winter costumes on approval, Victoria's maid
had arranged for the little Italian a picturesque dress of dark blue silk, from a gown of her
mistress', by which the emaciation of the girl's small frame was somewhat disguised; while
the beauty of the material, and of the delicate embroideries on the collar and sleeves, strangely
heightened the grace of her curly head, and the effect of her astonishing eyes, so liquidly
bright, in a face too slight for them.

In forty-eight hours, even, of comfort and cosseting her elfish thinness had become a shade
less ghastly; and the self-possession which had emerged from the state of collapse in which
she had arrived amazed Victoria. A week before, so it appeared, she had been earning a franc
a day in the vineyard of a friendly contadino. And already one might have thought her bred
in castles. She was not abashed or bewildered by the luxuries of Duddon, as Netta clearly was.
Rather, she seemed to seize greedily and by a natural instinct upon all that came her way--motors,
pretty frocks, warm baths in luxurious bathrooms, and the attentions of Victoria's maid. Victoria
believed that she had grasped the whole situation with regard to Threlfall. She was quite aware,
it seemed, of the magnitude of her father's wealth; of all that hung upon her own chances of
inheritance; and of the value, to her cause and her mother's, of the support of Duddon. Her
likeness to her father came out hour by hour, and there were moments when the tiny creature
carried herself like a Melrose in miniature.

Victoria's advent was awaited at Green Cottage, she having telephoned to Mrs. Penfold in the
morning, with something of a flutter. Her visits there had not been frequent; and this was
the first time she had called since Tatham's proposal to Lydia. That event had never been avowed
by Lydia, as we have seen, even to her mother; Lydia and Victoria had never exchanged a word
on the subject. But Lydia was aware of the shrewd guessing of her family, and she did not suppose
for one moment that Lady Tatham was ignorant of anything that had happened.

Mrs. Penfold, scarcely kept in order by Susy, was in much agitation. She felt terribly guilty.
Lady Tatham must think them all monsters of ingratitude, and she wondered how she could be
so kind as to come and see them at all. She became at last so incoherent and tearful that Lydia
prepared for the worst, while Susy, the professed psychologist, revelled in the prospect of
new "notes."

But when Victoria arrived, entering the cottage drawing-room with her fine mannish face, her
stately bearing, and her shabby clothes, the news she brought seized at once on Mrs. Penfold's
wandering wits, and for the moment held them fast. For Victoria, whose secret object was to
discover, if she could, any facts about Lydia's doings and feelings during the interval of
separation, that might throw light upon her Harry's predicament, made it cunningly appear that
she had come expressly to tell her neighbours of the startling event which was now agitating
Duddon, as it would soon be agitating the countryside.

Mrs. Penfold--steeped in long years of three-decker fiction--sat entranced. The cast-off and
ill-treated wife returning to the scene of her misery--with the heiress!--grown up--and beautiful:
she saw it all; she threw it all into the moulds dear to the sentimentalist. Victoria demurred
to the adjective "beautiful"; suggesting "pretty--when we have fed her!" But Mrs. Penfold,
with soft, shining eyes, already beheld the mother and child weeping at the knees of the Ogre,
the softening of the Ogre's heart, the opening of the grim Tower to its rightful heiress, the
happy ending, the marriage gown in the distance.

"For suppose!"--she turned gayly to her daughters for sympathy--"suppose she were to marry
Mr. Faversham! And then Mr. Melrose can have a stroke, and everything will come right!"

Lydia and Susy smiled dutifully. Victoria sat silent. Her silence checked Mrs. Penfold's flow,
and brought her back, bewildered to realities; to the sad remembrance of Lydia's astonishing
and inscrutable behaviour. Whereupon her manner and conversation became so dishevelled, in
her effort to propitiate Lady Tatham without betraying either herself or Lydia, that the situation
grew quickly unbearable.

"May I see your garden?" said Victoria abruptly to Lydia. Lydia rose with alacrity, opened
the glass door into the garden, and by a motion of the lips only visible to Susy appealed to
her to keep their mother indoors.

A misty October sun reigned over the garden. The river ran sparkling through the valley, and
on the farther side the slopes and jutting crags of the Helvellyn range showed ghostly through
the sunlit haze.'

A few absent-minded praises were given to the phloxes and the begonias. Then Victoria said,
turning a penetrating eye on Lydia:

"You heard from Harry of the Melroses' arrival?"

"Yes--this morning."

Bright colour rushed into Lydia's cheeks. Tatham's letter of that morning, the longest perhaps
ever written by a man who detested letter-writing, had touched her profoundly, caused her an
agonized searching of conscience. Did Lady Tatham blame and detest her? Her manner was certainly
cool. The girl's heart swelled as she walked along beside her guest.

"Everything depends on Mr. Faversham," said Victoria. "You are a friend of his?" She took the
garden chair that Lydia offered her.

"Yes; we have all come to know him pretty well."

Lydia's face, as she sat on the grass at Lady Tatham's feet, looking toward the fells, was
scarcely visible to her companion. Victoria could only admire the beauty of the girl's hair,
as the wind played with it, and the grace of her young form.

"I am afraid he is disappointing all his friends," she said gravely.

"Is it his fault?" exclaimed Lydia. "Mr. Melrose must be mad!"

"I wonder if that excuses Mr. Faversham?"

"It's horrible for him!" said Lydia in a low, smothered voice. "He wants to put things right?"

It was on the tip of Victoria's tongue to say, "Does he too write to you every day?" but she
refrained.

"If he really wants to put things right, why has he done nothing all these seven weeks?" she
asked severely. "I saw Colonel Barton this morning. He and Mr. Andover are in despair. They
felt such confidence in Mr. Faversham. The state of the Mainstairs village is too terrible!
Everybody is crying out. The Carlisle papers this week are full of it. But there are scores
of other things almost as bad. Mr. Faversham rushes about--here, there, and everywhere--but
with no result, they tell us, as far as any of the real grievances are concerned. Mr. Melrose
seems to be infatuated about him personally; will give him everything he wants; and pays no
attention whatever to his advice. And you know the latest report?"

"No." Lydia's face was bent over the grass, as she tried to aid a bumble-bee which was lying
on its back.

"It is generally believed that Mr. Melrose has made him his heir."

Lydia lifted a face of amazement, at first touched strangely with relief. "Then--surely--he
will be able to do what he wants!"

"On the contrary. His silence has been bought--that's what people say. Mr. Melrose has bribed
him to do his work, and defend his iniquities."

"Oh! Is that fair?" The humble-bee was so hastily poked on to his legs that he tumbled over again.

"Well, now, we shall test him!" said Victoria quietly. "We shall see what he does with regard
to Mrs. Melrose and her daughter. Harry will have told you how he went to him yesterday. We
had a telephone message this morning to say that a letter would reach us this afternoon from
Mr. Faversham. Harry will bring it on here; and I asked him to bring Felicia Melrose with him
in the car. We thought you would be interested to see her."

There was a pause. At last Lydia said slowly:

"How will you test Mr. Faversham? I don't understand."

"Unless the man is an adventurer," said Victoria, straightening her shoulders, "he will, of
course, do his best to put this girl--who is the rightful heiress--into her proper place. What
business has he with Mr. Melrose's estates?"

Lady Tatham spoke with imperious energy.

Lydia's eyes showed an almost equal animation.

"May he not share with her? Aren't they immense?"

"At present he takes everything--so they say. It looks ugly. A complete stranger--worming himself
in a few weeks or months into an old man's confidence--and carrying off the inheritance from
a pair of helpless women! And making himself meanwhile the tool of a tyrant!--aiding and abetting
him in all his oppressions!"

"Oh, Lady Tatham! no, no!" cried Lydia--the cry seemed wrung from her--"I--we--have only known
Mr. Faversham this short time--but how can one believe--"

She paused, her eyes under their vividly marked eyebrows painfully searching the face of her
companion.

Victoria said to herself, "Heavens!--she is in love with him--and she is letting Harry sit
up at nights to write to her!"

Her mother's heart beat fast with anger. But she held herself in hand.

"Well; as I have said, we shall soon be able to test him," she repeated, coldly; "we shall
soon know what to think. His letter will show whether he is a man with feeling and conscience--a
gentleman--or an adventurer!"

There was silence. Lydia was thinking passionately of Mainstairs and of the deep tones of a
man's voice--"If you condemn and misunderstand me--then indeed I shall lose heart!"

A humming sound could be heard in the far distance.

"Here they are," said Lady Tatham rising. Victoria's half-masculine beauty had never been so
formidable as it was this afternoon. Deep in her heart, she carried both pity for Harry, and
scorn for this foolish girl walking beside her, who could not recognize her good fortune when
it cried out to her.

They hastened back to the drawing-room; and at the same moment Tatham and Felicia walked in.

Felicia advanced with perfect self-command, her small face flushed with pink by the motion
of the car. In addition to the blue frock, Victoria's maid had now provided her with a short
cape of black silk, and a wide straw hat, to which the girl herself had given a kind of tilt,
a touch of audacity, in keeping with all the rest of her personality.

As she came in, she glanced round the room with her uncannily large eyes--her mother's eyes--taking
in all the company. She dropped a little curtsey to Mrs. Penfold, in whom the excitement of
this sudden appearance of Melrose's daughter had produced sheer and simple dumbness. She allowed
her hand to be shaken by Lydia and Susy, looking sharply at the former; while Susy looked sharply
at her. Then she subsided into a corner by Lady Tatham. It was evident that she regarded herself
as under that lady's particular protection.

"Well?" said Lady Tatham in an eager aside to her son. She read his aspect as that of a man
preoccupied.

Tatham shrugged his shoulders with a glance at Felicia. Victoria whispered to Lydia: "Will
you tell your mother I want to speak a few words to Harry on business?"

Mother and son passed into the garden together.

"A declaration of war!" said Tatham, as he handed a letter to her. "I propose to instruct our
solicitors at once."

Victoria read hastily. The writing was Faversham's. But the mind expressed was Melrose's. Victoria
read him in every line. She believed the letter to have been simply dictated.

"DEAR LORD TATHAM:

"I have laid Mrs. Melrose's statement before Mr. Melrose. I regret to say that he sees no cause
to modify the arrangements made years ago with regard to his wife, except that, in consideration
of the fact that Miss Melrose is now grown up, he will add £20 yearly to Mrs. Melrose's allowance,
making it £100 a year. Provision will be made for the continuance of this allowance to Mrs.
Melrose till her death, and afterward to the daughter for her lifetime; on condition that Mr.
Melrose is not further molested in any way. Otherwise Mr. Melrose acknowledges and will acknowledge
no claim upon him whatever.

"I am to add that if Mrs. Melrose is in difficulties, it is entirely owing to the dishonest
rapacity of her family who have been living upon her. Mr. Melrose is well acquainted with both
the past and recent history of Mr. Robert Smeath, who made a tool of Mrs. Melrose in the matter
of a disgraceful theft of a valuable bronze from Mr. Melrose's collection--"

"The Hermes!" cried Victoria. "She has never said one word to me about it."

"Miss Melrose has been telling me the story," said Tatham, smiling at the recollection. "By
George, that's a rum little girl! She glories in it. But she says her mother has been consumed
with remorse ever since. Go on."

"And if any attempt is made to blackmail or coerce Mr. Melrose, he will be obliged, much against
his will, to draw the attention of the Italian police to certain matters relating to Mr. Smeath,
of which he has the evidence in his possession. He warns Mrs. Melrose that her father's career
cannot possibly bear examination.

"I regret that my reply cannot be more satisfactory to you.

"Believe me,

"Yours faithfully,

"CLAUDE FAVERSHAM."

Victoria had turned pale.

"How abominable! Why, her father is bedridden and dying!"

"So I told Faversham--like a fool. For it only--apparently--gives Melrose a greater power of
putting on the screw. Well, now look here--here's something else." He drew another letter from
his pocket, and handed it to her.

Victoria unfolded a second note from Faversham--marked "confidential," and written in evident
agitation.

"MY DEAR TATHAM:

"I am powerless. Let me implore you to keep Mrs. Melrose quiet! Privately a great deal may
be done for her. If she will only trust herself to me, in my private capacity, I will see that
she is properly supplied for the future. But she will simply bring disaster on herself if she
attempts to force Melrose. She--and you--know what he is. I beg of you to be guided--and to
guide her--as I advise."

"An attempt, you see, to buy us off," said Tatham scornfully. "I propose to take the night
train from Pengarth this evening, and consult old Fledhow to-morrow morning."

"Old Fledhow," alias James Morton Fledhow, solicitor, head of one of that small group of firms
which, between them, have the great estates of England in their pigeon-holes, had been the
legal adviser of the Tatham family for two generations. Precipitation is not the badge of his
tribe; but Victoria threw herself upon this very natural and youthful impulse, before even
it could reach "old Fledhow."

"My dear Harry, be cautious! What did Mrs. Melrose say? Of course you showed her the letter?"

Tatham candidly admitted that he hardly knew what Mrs. Melrose had said. The letter had thrown
her into a great state of agitation, and she had cried a good deal. "Poor pápa, poor pápa!"
pronounced with the accent on the first syllable, seemed to have been all that she had been
able to articulate.

"You know, Harry, there may be a great deal in it?" Victoria's countenance showed her doubts.

"In the threat about her father? Pure bluff, mother!--absolute bluff! As for the bronze--a
wife can't steal from her husband. And under these circumstances!--I should like to see a British
jury that would touch her!"

"But she admits that half the proceeds went to her father."

"Twenty years ago?" Tatham's shrug was magnificent. "I tell you he'll get no change out of that!"

"But he hints at other things?"

"Bluff again! Why the man's helpless in his bed!"

"I suppose even dying can be made more unpleasant by the police," said Victoria. She pondered,
walking thoughtfully beside a rather thwarted and impatient youth, eager to play the champion
of the distressed in his own way; and that, possibly, from more motives than one. Suddenly
her face cleared.

"I will go myself!" she said, laying her hand on her son's arm.

"Mother!"

"Yes! I'll go myself. Leave it to me, Harry. I will drive over to Threlfall to-morrow evening--quite
alone and without notice. I had some influence with him once," she said, with her eyes on the
ground.

Tatham protested warmly. The smallest allusion to any early relation between his mother and
Melrose was almost intolerable to him. But Lady Tatham fought for her idea. She pointed out
again that Melrose might very well have some information that could be used with ghastly effect
even upon a dying man; that Netta was much attached to her father, and would probably not make
up her mind to any drastic step whatever in face of Melrose's threats.

"I don't so much care about Mrs. Melrose," exclaimed Tatham. "We can give her money, and make
her comfortable, if it comes to that. But it's the girl--and the hideous injustice of that
fellow there--that Faversham--ousting her from her rights--getting the old man into his power--boning
his property--and then writing hypocritical notes like that!"

He stood before her, flushed and excited; a broad-shouldered avenger of the sex, such as any
distressed maiden might have been glad to light upon. But again Victoria was aware that the
case was not as simple as it sounded. However, she was no less angry than he. Mother and son
were on the brink of making common cause against a grasping impostor; who was not to be allowed
to go off--either with money that did not belong to him, or with angelic sympathies that still
less belonged to him. Meanwhile on this point, whatever may have been in their minds, they
said on this occasion not a word. Victoria pressed her plan. And in the end Tatham most reluctantly
consented that she should endeavour to force a surprise interview with Melrose the following day.

They returned to the little drawing-room where Felicia Melrose, it seemed, had been giving
the Penfolds a difficult half hour. For as soon as the Tathams had stepped into the garden,
she had become entirely monosyllabic; after a drive from Duddon at Harry Tatham's side, during
which, greatly to her host's surprise, she had suddenly and unexpectedly found her tongue,
talking, in a torrent of questions, all the way, insatiably.

Mrs. Penfold, on her side, could do little but stare at "the heiress of Threlfall." Susy, studying
her with shining eyes, tried to make her talk, to little purpose.

But Lydia in particular could get nothing out of her. It seemed to her that Felicia looked
at her as though she disliked her. And every now and then the small stranger would try to see
herself in the only mirror that the cottage drawing-room afforded; lengthening out her long,
thin neck, and turning her curly head stealthily from side to side like a swan preening. Once,
when she thought no one was observing her, she took a carnation from a vase near her--it had
been sent over from Duddon that morning!--and put it in her dress. And the next moment, having
pulled off her glove, she looked with annoyance at her own roughened hand, and then at Lydia's
delicate fingers playing with a paper-knife. Frowning, she hastily slipped her glove on again.

As soon as Tatham and his mother reappeared, she jumped up with alacrity, a smile breaking
with sudden and sparkled beauty on her pinched face, and went to stand by Victoria's side,
looking up at her with eager docility and admiration.

Victoria, however, left her, in order to draw Lydia into a corner beside a farther window.

"I am sorry to say Harry has received a very unsatisfactory letter from Mr. Faversham."

"May I ask him about it?"

"He wants to tell you. I am carrying Miss Melrose back with me. But Harry will stay."

Words which cost Victoria a good deal. If what she now believed was the truth, how monstrous
that her Harry should be kept dangling here! Her pride was all on edge. But Harry ruled her.
She could make no move till his eyes too were opened.

Meanwhile, on all counts, Faversham was the enemy. To that chasse first and foremost, Victoria
vowed herself.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, what do you think of her?" said Tatham, good-humouredly, as he raised his hat to Felicia
and his mother disappearing in the car. "She's more alive to-day; but you can see she has been
literally starved. That brute Melrose!"

Lydia made some half audible reply, and with a view to prolonging his tête-à-tête with her,
he led her strolling along the road, through a golden dusk, touched with moonrise. She followed,
but all her pleasant self-confidence with regard to him was gone; she walked beside him, miserable
and self-condemned; a theorist defeated by the incalculable forces of things. How to begin
with him--what line to take--how to undo her own work--she did not know; her mind was in confusion.

As for him, he was no sooner alone with her than bliss descended on him. He forgot Faversham
and the Melroses. He only wished to talk to her, and of himself. Surely, so much, "friendship"
allowed.

He began, accordingly, to comment eagerly on her letters to him, and his to her, explaining
this, questioning that. Every word showed her afresh that her letters had been the landmarks
of his Scotch weeks, the chief events of his summer; and every word quickened a new remorse.
At last she could bear it no longer. She broke abruptly on his talk.

"Mayn't I know what's happened at Threlfall? Your mother told me--you had heard."

He pulled himself together, while many things he would rather have forgotten rushed back upon him.

"We're no forrader!" he said impatiently. "I don't believe we shall get a brass farthing out
of Melrose, if you ask me; at least without going to law and making a scandal; partly because
he's Melrose, and that sort--sooner die than climb down, and the rest of it--but mostly--"

He broke off.

"Mostly?" repeated Lydia.

"I don't know whether I'd better go on. Faversham's a friend of yours."

Tatham looked down upon her, his blunt features reddening.

"Not so much a friend that I can't hear the truth about him," said Lydia, smiling rather faintly.
"What do you accuse him of?"

He hesitated a moment; then the inner heat gathered, and flashed out. Wasn't it best to be
frank?--best for her, best for himself?

"Don't you think it looks pretty black?" he asked her, breathing quick; "there he is, getting
round an old man, and plotting for money he's no right to! Wouldn't you have thought that any
decent fellow would sooner break stones than take the money that ought to have been that girl's--that
at least he'd have said to Melrose 'provide for her first--your own child--and then do what
you like for me.' Wouldn't that have been the honest thing to do? But I went to him yesterday--told
him the story--he promised to look into it--and to use his influence. We sent him a statement
in proper form, a few hours later. It's horrible what those two have suffered! And then, to-day--it's
too dark for you to read his precious letter, but if you really don't mind, I'll tell you the
gist of it."

He summarized it--quite fairly--yet with a contempt he did not try to conceal. The girl at
his side, muffled in a blue cloak, with a dark hood framing the pale gold of the hair, and
the delicate curves of the face, listened in silence. At the end she said:

"Tell me on what grounds you think Mr. Melrose has left his property to Mr. Faversham?"

"Everybody believes it! My Carlisle lawyers whom I saw this morning are convinced of it. Melrose
is said to have spoken quite frankly about it to many persons."

"Not very strong evidence on which to condemn a man so utterly as you condemn him," said Lydia,
with sudden emotion. "Think of the difficulty of his position! May he not be honestly trying
to steer his way? And may not we all be doing our best to make his task impossible, putting
the worst construction--the very worst!--on everything he does?"

There was silence a moment. Tatham and Lydia were looking into each other's faces; the girl's
soul, wounded and fluttering, was in her eyes. Tatham felt a sudden and choking sense of catastrophe.
Their house of cards had fallen about them, and his stubborn hopes with it. She, with her high
standards, could not possibly defend--could not possibly plead--for a man who was behaving
so shabbily, so dishonourably, except--for one reason! He leapt indignantly at certainty; although
it was a certainty that tortured him.

"There is evidence enough!" he said, in a changed voice. "I don't understand how you can stick
up for him."

"I don't," she said sadly, "not if it's true. But I don't want to believe it. Why should one
want to believe the worst, you and I, about anybody?"

Tatham kept an explosive silence for a moment, and then broke out hoarsely:

"Do you remember, we promised we'd be real friends?--we'd be really frank with each other?
I've kept my bargain. Are you keeping it? Isn't there something you haven't told me!--something
I ought to know?"

"No, nothing!" cried Lydia, with sudden energy. "You misunderstand--you offend me."

She drew her breath quickly. There were angry tears in her eyes, hidden by the hood.

A gust of passion swept through Tatham, revealing his manhood to itself. He stopped, caught
her hands, and held them fiercely, imprisoned against his breast. She must needs look up at
him; male strength compelled; they stood motionless a few seconds under the shadows of the trees.

"If there is nothing--if I do misunderstand--if I'm wrong in what I think--for God's sake listen
to me--give me back my promise. I can't--I can't keep it!"

He stooped and kissed the fingers he held, once, twice, repeatedly; then turned away, shading
his eyes with his hand.

Lydia said, with a little moan:

"Oh, Harry!--we've broken the spell."

Tatham recovered himself with difficulty.

"Can't you--can't you ever care for me?" The voice was low, the eyes still hidden.

"We oughtn't to have been writing and meeting!" cried Lydia, in despair. "It was foolish, wrong!
I see it now. I ask your pardon. We must say good-bye, Harry--and--oh!--oh!--I'm so sorry I
let you--"

Her voice died away.

In the distance of the lane, a labourer emerged whistling from a gate, with his dog. Tatham's
hands dropped to his sides; they walked on together as before. The man passed them with a cheerful
good-night.

Tatham spoke slowly.

"Yes--perhaps--we'd better not meet. I can't--control myself. And I should go on offending you."

A chasm seemed to have opened between them. They turned and walked back to the gate of the
cottage. When they reached it, Tatham crushed her hand again in his.

"Good-bye! If ever I can do anything to serve you--let me know! Good-bye!--dearest--dearest
Lydia." His voice sank and lingered on the name. The lamp at the gate showed him that her eyes
were swimming in tears.

"You'll forgive me?" she said, imploringly.

He attempted a laugh, which ended in a sound of pain. Then he lifted her hand again, kissed
it, and was gone; running--head down--through the dimness of the lane.

Meanwhile, wrapped in the warm furs of the motor, Felicia and Lady Tatham sped toward Duddon.

Felicia was impenetrably silent at first; and Victoria, who never found it easy to adapt herself
to the young, made no effort to rouse her. Occasionally some passing light showed her the girl's
pallid profile--slightly frowning brow, and pinched lips--against the dark lining of the car.
And once or twice as she saw her thus, she was startled by the likeness to Melrose.

When they were halfway home, a thin, high voice struck into the silence, deliberately clear:

"Who is the Signorina Penfold?"

"Her mother is a widow. They have lived here about two years."

"She is not pretty. She is too pale. I do not like that hair," said Felicia, viciously.

Victoria could not help an unseen smile.

"Everybody here thinks her pretty. She is very clever, and a beautiful artist," she said, with
slight severity.

The gesture beside her was scarcely discernible. But Victoria thought it was a toss of the head.

"Everybody in Italy can paint. It is as common--as common as lizards! There are dozens of people
in Lucca who can paint--a whole villa--ceilings, walls--what you like. Nobody thinks anything
at all about them. But Italian girls are very clever also! There were two girls in Lucca--Marchesine--the
best family in Lucca. They got all the prizes at the Licéo, and then they went to Pisa to the
University; and one of them was a Doctor of Law; and when they came home, all the street in
which they lived and their palazzo were lit up. And they were very pretty too!"

"And you--did you go to the Licéo, Felicia?"

"No! I had never any education--none, none, none! But I could get it, if I wanted," said the
voice, defiantly.

"Of course you could. I have asked your mother to stay with us till Christmas. You might get
some lessons in Carlisle. We could send you in."

Felicia, however, made no response to this at all, and Victoria felt that her proposal had
fallen flat. But, after a minute or two, she heard:

"I should like--to learn--to ride!"

Much emphasis on the last word; accompanied by nodding of the fantastic little head.

"Well, we shall see!" laughed Victoria, indulgently.

"And then--I would go out--with Lord Tatham!" said Felicia. "Oh, but he is too divine on horseback!
There were some Italian cavalry officers at Lucca. I used to run to the window every time to
see them pass by. But he is nobler--he is handsomer!"

Victoria, taken by surprise, wondered if it would not be well to administer a little snubbing
to compliments so unabashed. She tried. But Felicia interrupted her:

"Do you not admire him--your son?" she said eagerly, slipping up close to Victoria. "Can he
jump and swim rivers--on his horse--and come down mountains--on his haunches--like our cavalleria?
I am certain he can!"

"He can do most things on a horse. When the hunting begins, you will see," said Victoria, smiling
in spite of herself.

"Tell me, please, what is the hunting? And about the shooting, too. Lord Tatham told me--this
afternoon--some ladies shoot. Oh, but I will learn to shoot! I swear it--yes! Now tell me!"

Thus attacked, the formidable Victoria capitulated. She was soon in the midst of stories of
her Harry, from his first pony upward. And she had not gone far before a tiny hand slipped
itself into hers and nestled there; moving and quivering occasionally, like a wild bird voluntarily
tame. And when the drive ended, Victoria was quite sorry to lose its lithe softness.

XVI

Victoria very soon perceived that a crisis had come and gone. She had been accustomed for a
while before they went to Scotland to send about once a week a basket of flowers and fruit
from the famous gardens of Duddon, with her "kind regards" to Mrs. Penfold. The basket was
generally brought into the hall, and Tatham would slip into it the new books or magazines that
seemed to him likely to attract the cottage party. He had always taken a particular pleasure
in the dispatch of the basket, and in the contrivance of some new offering of which it might
be the bearer. Victoria, on the other hand, though usually a lavish giver, had taken but a
grudging part in the business, and merely to please her son.

On the day following the visit to the cottage, the basket, in obedience to a standing order,
lay in the hall as usual, heaped with a gorgeous mass of the earliest chrysanthemums. Victoria
observed it--with an unfriendly eye--as she passed through the hall on her way to breakfast.

Harry came up behind her, and she turned to give him her morning kiss.

"Please don't send it," he said abruptly, pointing to the basket. "It wouldn't be welcome."

She started, but made no reply. They went into breakfast. Victoria gave the butler directions
that the flowers should be sent to the Rectory.

After breakfast she followed Tatham into the library. He stood silent a while by the window,
looking out, his hands in his pockets; she beside him, leaning her head against his arm.

"It's all over," he said at last; "we decided it last night."

"What's over, dear old boy?"

"I broke our compact--I couldn't help it--and we saw it couldn't go on."

"You--asked her again?"

He nodded. "It's no good. And now it only worries her that I should hang about. We can't--even
be friends. It's all my fault."

"You poor darling!" cried his mother indignantly. "She has played with you abominably."

He flushed with anger.

"You mustn't say that--you mustn't think it, mother! All these weeks have been--to the good.
They haven't been the real thing. But I shall always have them--to remember. Now it's done with."

Silence fell upon them again, while their minds went back over the history of the preceding
six months. Victoria felt very bitter. And so, apparently, in his own way, did he. For he presently
said, with a vehemence which startled her:

"I'd sooner be shot than see her marry that fellow!"

"Ah! you suspect that?"

"It looks like it," he said reluctantly. "And unless I'm much mistaken, he's a mean cad! But--for
her sake--we'll make sure--we'll give him every chance."

"It is of course possible," said Victoria grudgingly, "that he has honestly tried to do something
for the Melroses."

"I daresay!" said Tatham, with a shrug.

"And it is possible also that if he is the heir, he means to make it up to Felicia, when he
comes into it all."

Tatham laughed.

"To throw her a spare bone? Very likely. But how are we to know that Melrose won't bind him
by all sorts of restrictions? A vindictive old villain like that will do anything. Then we
shall have Faversham calmly saying, 'Very sorry I can't oblige you! But if I modify the terms
of the will in your favour, I forfeit the estates.' Besides isn't it monstrous--damnable--that
Melrose's daughter should owe to charity--the charity of a fellow who had never heard of Melrose
or Threlfall six months ago--what is her right--her plain and simple right?"

Victoria agreed. All these ancestral ideas of family maintenance, and the practical rights
dependent on family ties, which were implied in Harry's attitude, were just as real to her
as to his simpler mind. Yet she knew very well that Netta and Felicia Melrose were fast becoming
to him the mere symbols and counters of a struggle that affected him more intimately, more
profoundly than any crusading effort for the legal and moral rights of a couple of strangers
could possibly have done.

Lydia had broken with him, and his hopes were dashed. Why? Because another man had come upon
the scene whose influence upon her was clear--disastrously clear.

"If he were a decent fellow--I'd go out of her life--without a word. But he's a thievish intriguer!--and
I don't intend to hold my hand till I've brought him out in his true colours before her and
the world. Then--if she chooses--with her eyes open--let her take him!" It was thus his mother
imagined his thought, and she was not far from the truth. And meanwhile the sombre changes
in the boyish face made her own heart sore. For they told of an ill heat of blood, and an embittered
soul.

At luncheon he sat depressed and silent, doing his duty with an effort to his mother's guests.
Netta also was in the depths. She had lost the power of rapid recuperation that youth gave
to Felicia, and in spite of the comforts of Threlfall her aspect was scarcely less deplorable
than when she arrived. Moreover she had cried much since the delivery of the Threlfall letter
the day before. Her eyes were red, and her small face disfigured. Felicia, on the other hand,
sat with her nose in the air, evidently despising her mother's tears, and as sharply observant
as ever of the sights about her--the quietly moving servants, the flowers, and silver, the
strange, nice things to eat. Tatham, absorbed in his own thoughts, did not perceive how, in
addition, she watched the master of the house; Victoria was uncomfortably aware of it.

After luncheon Tatham took up a Bradshaw lying on a table in the panelled hall, where they
generally drank coffee, and looked up the night mail to Euston.

"I shall catch it at Carlisle," he said to his mother, book in hand. "There will be time to
hear your report before I go."

She nodded. Her own intention was to start at dusk for Threlfall.

"Why are you going away?" said Felicia suddenly.

He turned to her courteously:

"To try to straighten your affairs!"

"That won't do us any good--to go away." Her voice was shrill, her black eyes frowned. "We
shan't know what to do--by ourselves."

"And it's precisely because I also don't know exactly what to do next, that I'm going to town.
We must get some advice--from the lawyers."

"I hate lawyers!" The girl flushed angrily. "I went to one in Lucca once--we wanted a paper
drawn up. Mamma was ill. I had to go by myself. He was a brute!"

"Oh, my old lawyer is not a brute," said Tatham, laughing. "He's a jolly old chap."

"The man in Lucca was a horrid brute!" repeated Felicia. "He wanted to kiss me! There was a
vase of flowers standing on his desk. I threw them at him. It cut him. I was so glad! His forehead
began to bleed, and the water ran down from his hair. He looked so ugly and silly! I walked
all the way home up the mountains, and when I got home I fainted. We never went to that man again."

"I should think not!" exclaimed Tatham, with disgust. For the first time he looked at her attentively.
An English girl would not have told him that story in the same frank, upstanding way. But this
little elfish creature, with her blazing eyes, friendless and penniless in the world, had probably
been exposed to experiences the English girl would know nothing of. He did not like to think
of them. That beast, her father!

He was going away, when Felicia said, her curly head a little on one side, her tone low and
beguiling:

"When you come back, will you teach me to ride? Lady Tatham said--perhaps--"

Tatham was embarrassed--and bored--by the request.

"I have no doubt we can find you a pony," he said evasively, and taking up the Bradshaw he
walked away.

Felicia stood alone and motionless in the big hall, amid its Gainsboroughs and Romneys, its
splendid cabinets and tapestries, a childish figure in a blue dress, with crimson cheeks, and
compressed lips. Suddenly she ran up to a mirror on the wall, and looked at herself vindictively.

"It is because you are so ugly," she said to the image in the glass. "Ugh, you are so ugly!
And yet I can't have yellow hair like that other girl. If I dyed it, he would know--he would
laugh. And she is all round and soft; but my bones are all sticking out! I might be cut out
of wood. Ah"--her wild smile broke out--"I know what I'll do! I'll drink panna--cream they
call it here. Every night at tea they bring in what would cost a lira in Florence. I'll drink
a whole cup of it!--I'll eat pounds of butter--and lots, lots of pudding--that's what makes
English people fat. I'll be fat too. You'll see!" And she threw a threatening nod at the scarecrow
reflected in the tortoise-shell mirror.

The October evening had fallen when Tatham put his mother into the motor, and stood, his hands
in his pockets--uncomfortable and disapproving--on the steps of Duddon, watching the bright
lights disappearing down the long avenue. What could she do? He hated to think of her in the
old miser's house, browbeaten and perhaps insulted, when he was not there to protect her.

However she was gone, on what he was certain would prove a futile errand, and he turned heavily
back into the house.

The head keeper was waiting in the inner hall, in search of orders for a small "shoot" of neighbours
on the morrow, planned some weeks before.

"Arrange it as you like, Thurston!" said Tatham hurriedly, as he came in sight of the man,
a magnificent grizzled fellow in gaiters and a green uniform. "I don't care where we go."

"I thought perhaps the Colley Wood beat, my lord--"

"Yes, capital. That'll do. I leave it to you. Sorry I can't stay to talk it over. Good-night!"

"There's a pair of foxes, my lord, in the Nowers spinney that have been doing a shocking amount
of damage lately...."

But the door of the library was already shut. Thurston went away, both astonished and aggrieved.
There were few things he liked better than a chat with the young fellow whom he had taught
to hold a gun; and Tatham was generally the most accessible of masters and the keenest of sportsmen,
going into every detail of the shooting parties himself, with an unfailing spirit.

Meanwhile Victoria was speeding eastward in her motor along the Pengarth road. Darkness was
fast rushing on. To her left she saw the spreading waste of Flitterdale Common, its great stretches
of moss livid in the dusk: and beyond it, westward, the rounded tops and slopes of the range
that runs from Great Dodd to Helvellyn. Presently she made out, in the distance, looking southward
from the high-level road on which the car was running, the great enclosure of Threlfall Park,
on either side of the river which ran between her and Flitterdale; the dim line of its circling
wall; its scattered woods; and farther on, the square mass of the Tower itself, black above
the trees.

The car stopped at a gate, a dark and empty lodge beside it. The footman jumped down. Was the
gate locked?--and must she go round to Whitebeck, and make her attack from that side? No, the
gate swung open, and in sped the car.

Victoria sat upright, her mood strung to an intensity which knew no fears. It was twenty years
since she had last seen Edmund Melrose, and it was thirty years and more since she had rescued
her sister from his grasp, and the duel between herself and him had ended in her final victory.

How dim they seemed, those far-off days!--when for some two or three years, either in London
or in Paris, where her father was Ambassador, she had been in frequent contact with a group
of young men--of young "bloods"--conspicuous in family and wealth, among whom Edmund Melrose
was the reckless leader of a dare-devil set. She thought of a famous picture of the young Beckford,
by Lawrence, to which Melrose on the younger side of forty had been frequently compared. The
same romantic beauty of feature, the same liquid depth of eye, the same splendid carriage;
and, combined with these, the same insolence and selfishness. There had been in Victoria's
earlier youth moments when to see him enter a ballroom was to feel her head swim with excitement;
when to carry him off from a rival was a passionate delight; when she coveted his praise, and
dreaded his sarcasm. And yet--it was perfectly true what she had said to Harry. She had never
been in love with him. The imagination of an "unlessoned girl" had been fired; but when the
glamour in which it had wrapped the man had been torn away by the disclosure of some ugly facts
concerning him; when she broke with him in disgust, and induced others to break with him; it
was not her feelings, not her heart, which had suffered.

Nevertheless, so complex a thing is a woman, that as Victoria Tatham drew nearer to the Tower,
and to Melrose, she felt herself strangely melting toward him--a prey to pity and the tears
of things. She alone in this countryside had been a witness of his meteor like youth; she alone
could set it beside his sordid and dishonoured age.

What did she hope to do with him? The plight of his wife and daughter had roused her strongest
and most indignant sympathy. The cry of wrong or injustice had always found her fiercely responsive.
Whatever an outsider could do to help Melrose's local victims she had done, not once but many
times. Her mind was permanently in revolt against him, both as a man and a landlord. She had
watched and judged him for years. Yet, now that yet another of his misdeeds was to bring her
again into personal contact with him, her pulse quickened; some memory of the old ascendency
survived.

It was a still and frosty evening. As the motor drew up in the walled enclosure before the
Tower, the noise of its brakes echoed through the profound silence in which the Tower was wrapped.
No sign of life in the dark front; no ray of light anywhere from its shuttered windows.

Yet, to her astonishment, as she alighted, and before she had rung the bell, the front door
was thrown open, and Dixon with a couple of dogs at his heels ran down the steps.

At sight however of the veiled and cloaked lady who had descended from the motor, the old man
stopped short, evidently surprised. With an exclamation Victoria did not catch, he retreated
to the threshold of the house.

She mounted rapidly, not noticing that a telegraph boy on a bicycle had come wheeling into
the forecourt behind her.

"Is Mr. Melrose at home?"

As she threw back her veil, Dixon stared at her in dumb amazement. Then she suddenly perceived
behind him a tall figure advancing. She made a few steps forward through the dimly lighted
hall, and found herself within a foot of Edmund Melrose himself.

He gave a start--checked himself--and stood staring at her. He wore spectacles, and was leaning
on a stick. She had a quick impression of physical weakness and decay.

Without any visible embarrassment she held out her hand.

"I am lucky to have found you at home, Mr. Melrose. Will you give me twenty minutes' conversation
on some important business?"

"Excuse me!" he said with a profound bow, and a motion of the left hand toward the stick on
which he supported himself--"or rather my infirmities."

Victoria's hand dropped.

His glittering eyes surveyed her. Dixon approached him holding out a telegram.

"Allow me," said Melrose, as he tore open the envelope and perused the message. "Ah! I thought
so! You were mistaken, Lady Tatham--for another visitor--one of those foreign fellows who waste
so much of my time--coming to see a few little things of mine. Shut the door, Dixon--the man
has missed his train. Now, Lady Tatham!--you have some business to discuss with me. Kindly
step this way."

He turned toward the gallery. Victoria followed, and Dixon was left in the hall, staring after
them in a helpless astonishment.

The gallery lit by hanging lamps made a swift impression of splendid space and colour on Lady
Tatham as she passed through it in Melrose's wake. He led the way without a word, till he reached
the door of his own room.

She passed into the panelled library which has been already described in the course of this
narrative. On this October evening, however, its aspect was not that generally presented by
Melrose's "den." Its ordinary hugger-mugger had been cleared away--pushed back into corners
and out of sight. But on the splendid French bureau, and on various other tables and cabinets
of scarcely less beauty, there stood ranged in careful order a wealth of glorious things. The
light of a blazing fire, and of many lamps played on some fifty or sixty dishes and vases from
the great days of Italian majolica--specimens of Gubbio, Faenza, Caffagiolo, of the rarest
and costliest quality. The room glowed and sparkled with colour. The gold of Italian sunshine,
the azure of Italian skies, the purple of Italian grapes seemed to have been poured into it,
and to have taken shape in these lustrous ewers and plaques, in their glistering greens and
yellows, their pale opalescence, their superb orange and blue. While as a background to the
show, a couple of curtains--Venetian cut-velvet of the seventeenth century, of faded but still
gorgeous blue and rose--had been hung over a tall screen.

"What marvellous things!" cried Victoria, throwing up her hands and forgetting everything else
for the moment but the pleasure of a trained eye.

Melrose smiled.

"Pray take that chair!" he said, with exaggerated deference. "Your visits are rare, Lady Tatham!
Is it--twenty years? I regret I have no drawing-room in which to receive you. But Mr. Faversham
and I talk of furnishing it before long. You are, I believe, acquainted with Mr. Faversham?"

He waved his hand, and suddenly Victoria became aware of another person in the room. Faversham
standing tall and silent, amid the show of majolica, bowed to her formally, and Victoria slightly
acknowledged the greeting. It seemed to her that Melrose's foraging eyes travelled maliciously
between her and the agent.

"Mr. Faversham and I only unpacked a great part of this stuff yesterday," said Melrose, with
much apparent good humour. "It has been shut up in one of the north rooms ever since a sale
in Paris at which I bought most of the pieces. Crockett wished to see it" (he named the most
famous American collector of the day). "He shall see it. I understand he will be here to-morrow,
having missed his train to-day. He will come no doubt with his check-book. It amuses me to
lead these fellows on, and then bid them good morning. They have the most infernal assumptions.
One has to teach them that an Englishman is a match for any American!"

Victoria sat passive. Faversham took up a pile of letters and moved toward the door. As he
opened it, he turned and his eyes met Victoria's. She wavered a moment under the passionate
and haughty resentment they seemed to express, no doubt a reflection of the reply to his letter
sent him by Harry that morning. Then the door shut and she was alone with Melrose.

That gentleman leant back in his chair observing her. He wore the curious cloaklike garment
of thin black stuff, in which for some years past he had been accustomed to dress when indoors;
and the skullcap on his silvery white hair gave added force to the still splendid head and
aquiline features. A kind of mocking satisfaction seemed to flicker through the wrinkled face;
and the general aspect of the man was still formidable indeed. And yet it was the phantom of
a man that she beheld. He had paled to the diaphanous whiteness of the Catholic ascetic; his
hand shook upon his stick; the folds of the cloak barely concealed the emaciation of his body.
Victoria, gazing at him, seemed to perceive strange intimations and presages, and, in the deep
harsh eyes, a spirit at bay.

She began quietly, bending forward:

"Mr. Melrose, I have come to speak to you on behalf of your wife."

"So I imagined. I should not allow any one else, Lady Tatham, to address me on the subject."

"Thank you. I resolved--as you see--to appeal once more to our old--"

"Friendship?" he suggested.

"Yes--friendship," she repeated, slowly. "It might have been called so--once."

"Long ago! So long ago that--I do not see how anything practical can come of appealing to it,"
he said, pointedly. "Moreover, the manner in which the friendship was trampled on--by you--not
once, but twice, not only destroyed it, but--if I may say so--replaced it."

His hollow eyes burned upon her. Wrapped in his cloak, his white hair gleamimg amid the wonderful
ewers and dishes, he had the aspect of some wizard or alchemist, of whom a woman might ask
poison for her rival, or a philter for her lover. Victoria, fascinated, was held partly by
the apparition before her, partly by an image--a visualization in the mind. She saw the ballroom
in that splendid house, now the British Embassy in Paris, and once the home of Pauline Borghese.
She saw herself in white, a wreath of forget-me-nots in her hair. She has just heard, and from
a woman friend, a story of lust and cruelty in which Edmund Melrose was the principal actor.
He comes to claim her for a dance; she dismisses him, in public, with a manner and in words
that scathe--that brand. She sees his look of rage, as of one struck in the face--she feels
again the shudder passing through her--a shudder of release, horror passing into thanksgiving.

But--what long tracts of life since then!--what happiness for her!--what decay and degeneracy
for him! A pang of sheer pity, not so much for him as for the human lot, shot through her,
as she realized afresh to what evening of life he had come, from what a morning.

At any rate her manner in reply showed no resentment of his tone.

"All these things are dead for both of us," she said quietly.

He interrupted her.

"You are right--or partly right. Edith is dead--that makes it easier for you and me to meet."

"Yes. Edith is dead," she said, with sudden emotion. "And in her last days she spoke to me
kindly of you."

He made no comment. She resumed:

"I desire, if I can--and if you will allow me--to recall to you the years when we were cousins
and friends together--blotting out all that has happened since. If you remember--twenty years
ago, when you and your wife arrived to settle here, I then came to ask you to bury the feud
between us, and to let us meet again at least as neighbours and acquaintances. You refused.
Then came the breakdown of your marriage. I was honestly sorry for it."

He smiled. She was quite conscious of the mockery in the smile; but she persevered.

"And now, for many years, I have not known--nobody here has known, whether your wife was alive
or dead. Suddenly, a few days ago, she and your daughter arrived at Duddon, to ask me to help
them."

"Precisely. To make use of you, in order to bring pressure to bear on me! I do not mean to
lend myself to the proceeding!"

Victoria flushed.

"In attempting to influence me, Mrs. Melrose, I assure you, had no weapon whatever but her
story. And to look at her was to see that it was true. She admits--most penitently--that she
was wrong to leave you--" "And to rob me! You forget that."

Victoria threw back her head. He remembered that scornful gesture in her youth.

"What did that matter to you? In this house!"

She looked round the room, with its contents.

"It did matter to me," he said stubbornly. "My collections are the only satisfaction left to
me--by you, Lady Tatham--and others. They are to me in the place of children. I love my bronzes--and
my marbles--as you--I suppose--love your son. It sounds incredible to you, no doubt"--the sneer
was audible--"but it is so."

"Even if it were so--it is twenty years ago. You have replaced what you lost a hundred times."

"I have never replaced it. And it is now out of my reach--in the Berlin Museum--bought by that
fellow Jensen, their head man, who goes nosing like a hound all over Europe--and is always
poaching in my preserves."

Victoria looked at him in puzzled amazement. Was this mad, this childish bitterness, a pose?--or
was there really some breakdown of the once powerful brain? She began again--less confidently.

"I have told you--I repeat--how sorry she is--how fully she admits she was wrong. But just
consider how she has paid for it! Your allowance to her--you must let me speak plainly--could
not keep her and her child decently. Her family have been unfortunate; she has had to keep
them as well as herself. And the end of it is that she--and your child--your own child--have
come pretty near to starvation."

He sat immovable. But Victoria rose to her task. Her veil thrown back from the pale austerity
of her beauty, she poured out the story of Netta and Felicia, from a heart sincerely touched.
The sordid years in Florence, the death of Netta's mother, the bankruptcy of her father, the
bitter struggle amid the Apuan Alps to keep themselves and their wretched invalid alive--she
described them, as they had been told to her, not rhetorically, for neither she nor Netta Melrose
was capable of rhetoric, but with the touches and plain details that bring conviction.

"They have been hungry--for the peasants' food. Your wife and child have had to be content
day after day with a handful of bread and a salata gathered from the roadside; while every
franc they could earn was spent upon a sick man. Mrs. Melrose is a shadow. I suspect incurable
illness. Your little daughter arrived fainting and emaciated at my house. But with a few days'
rest and proper food she has revived. She is young. She has not suffered irreparably. One sees
what a lovely little creature she might be--and how full of vivacity and charm. Mr. Melrose--you
would be proud of her! She is like you--like what you were, in your youth. When I think of
what other people would give for such a daughter! Can you possibly deny yourself the pleasure
of taking her back into your life?"

"Very easily! Your sentimentalism will resent it; I assure you, nevertheless, that it would
give me no pleasure whatever."

"Ah, but consider it again," she pleaded, earnestly. "You do not know what you are refusing--how
much, and how little. All that is asked is that you should acknowledge them--provide for them.
Let them stay here a few weeks in the year--what could it matter to you in this immense house?--or
if that is impossible, at least give your wife a proper allowance--you would spend it three
times over in a day on things like these"--her eye glanced toward a superb ewer and dish, of
verre églomisée, standing between her and Melrose--"and let your daughter take her place as
your heiress! She ought to marry early--and marry brilliantly. And later--perhaps--in her children--"

Melrose stood up.

"I shall not follow you into these dreams," he said fiercely. "She is not my heiress--and she
never will be. The whole of my property"--he spoke with hammered emphasis--"will pass at my
death to my friend and agent and adopted son--Claude Faversham."

He spoke with an excitement his physical state no longer allowed him to conceal. At last--he
was defeating this woman who had once defeated him; he was denying and scorning her, as she
had once denied and scorned him. That her cause was an impersonal and an unselfish one made
no difference. He knew the strength of her character and her sympathies. It was sweet to him
to refuse her something she desired. She had never yet given him the opportunity! In the twenty
years since they had last faced each other, he was perfectly conscious that he had lost mentally,
morally, physically; whereas she--his enemy--bore about with her, even in her changed beauty,
the signs of a life lived fruitfully--a life that had been worth while. His bitter perception
of it, his hidden consciousness that he had probably but a short time, a couple of years at
most, to live, only increased his satisfaction in the "No"--the contemptuous and final "No!"
that he had opposed, and would oppose, to her impertinent interference with his affairs.

Victoria sat regarding him silently, as he walked to the mantelpiece, rearranged a few silver
objects standing upon it, and then turned--confronting her again.

"You have made Mr. Faversham your heir?" she asked him after a pause.

"I have. And I shall take good care that he does nothing with my property when he inherits
it so as to undo my wishes with regard to it."

"That is to say--you will not even allow him to make--himself--provision for your wife and
daughter?"

"Beyond what was indicated in the letter to your son? No! certainly not. I shall take measures
against anything of the sort."

Victoria rose.

"And he accepts your condition--your bequest to him, on these terms?"

Melrose smiled.

"Certainly. Why not?"

"I am sorry for Mr. Faversham!" said Victoria, in a different voice, the colour sparkling on
her cheek.

"Because you think there will be a public opinion against him--that he will be boycotted in
this precious county? Make yourself easy, Lady Tatham. A fortune such as he will inherit provides
an easy cure for such wounds."

Victoria's self-control began to break down.

"I venture to think he will not find it so," she said, with quickened breath. "In these days
it is not so simple to defy the common conscience--as it once was. I fear indeed that Mr. Faversham
has already lost the respect of decent men!"

"By becoming my agent?"

"Your tool--for actions--cruel, inhuman things--degrading to both you and him."

She had failed. She knew it! And all that remained was to speak the truth to him, to defy and
denounce him.

Melrose surveyed her.

"The ejectment order has been served at Mainstairs to-day, I believe; and the police have at
last plucked up their courage to turn those shiftless people out. There, too, I understand,
Lady Tatham, you have been meddling."

"I have been trying to undo some of your wrong-doing," she said, with emotion. "And now--before
I go--you shall not prevent me from saying that I regard it perhaps as your last and worst
crime to have perverted the conscience of this young man! He has been well thought of till
now: a decent fellow sprung from decent people. You are making an outcast--a pariah of him.
And you think money will compensate him! When you and I knew each other, Edmund"--the name
slipped out--"you had a mind--one of the shrewdest I ever knew. I appeal to that. It is not
so much now that you are wicked or cruel--you are playing the fool! And you are teaching this
young man to do the same."

She stood confronting him, holding herself tensely erect--a pale, imperious figure--the embodiment
of all the higher ideals and traditions of the class to which they both belonged.

In her agitation she had dropped her glove. Melrose picked it up.

"On that I think, Lady Tatham, we will say farewell. I regret I have not been able to oblige
you. My wife comes from a needy class--accustomed to manage on a little. My daughter has not
been brought up to luxury. Had she remained with me, of course, the case would have been different.
But you will find they will do very well on what I have provided for them. I advise you not
to waste your pity. And as for Mr. Faversham, he will take good care of himself. He frames
excellently. And I hope before long to see him married--to a very suitable young lady."

They remained looking at each other, for a few seconds, in silence. Then Victoria said quietly,
with a forward step:

"I bid you good evening."

He stood at the door, his fingers on the handle, his eyes glittering and malicious.

"I should have liked to have shown you some of my little collections," he said, smiling. "That
verre églomisée, for instance"--he pointed to it--"it's magnificent, though rather decadent.
They have nothing like it in London or Paris. Really--you must go?"

He threw the door open, bowing profoundly.

"Dixon!"

A voice responded from the farther end of the corridor.

"Tell her ladyship's car to come round. Excuse my coming to the door, Lady Tatham. I am an
old man."

The car sped once more through the gloom of the park. Victoria sat with hands locked on her
knee, possessed by the after tremors of battle.

In Melrose's inhuman will there was something demonic, which appalled. The impotence of justice,
of compassion, in the presence of certain shameless and insolent forces of the human spirit--the
lesson goes deep! Victoria quivered under it.

But there were other elements besides in her tumult of feeling. The tone, the taunting look,
with which Melrose had spoken of Faversham's possible marriage--did he, did all the world know,
that Harry had been played with and jilted? For that, in plain English, was what it came to.
Her heart burnt with anger--with a desire to punish.

The car passed out of the lodge gates. Its brilliant lamps under the trees seemed to strike
into the very heart of night. And suddenly, in the midst of the light they made, two figures
emerged, an old man carrying a sack, a youth beside him, with a gun over his shoulder.

They were the Brands--father, and younger son. Victoria bent forward with a hasty gesture of
greeting. But they never turned to look at the motor. They passed out of the darkness, and
into the darkness again, their frowning, unlovely faces, their ragged clothes and stooping
gait, illuminated for an instant.

Victoria had tried that very week, at her son's instance, to try and persuade the father to
take a small farm on the Duddon estate, Tatham offering to lend him capital. And Brand had
refused. Independence, responsibility, could no longer be faced by a spirit so crushed. "I
darena' my lady," he had said to her. "I'm worth nobbut my weekly wage. I canna' tak' risks--no
more. Thank yo' kindly; but yo' mun let us be!"

XVII

On the morning following her vain interview with Melrose, Victoria, sorely conscious of defeat,
conveyed the news of it to the depressed and disprited Netta.

They were in Victoria's sitting-room. Netta sat, a lamentable figure, on the edge of the sofa,
twisting her disfigured hands, her black eyes glancing restlessly about her. Ever since she
had read Faversham's letter to Tatham she had been an altered being. The threats as to her
father, which it contained, seemed to have withered her afresh. All that small and desperate
flicker of hope in which she had arrived had died away, and her determination with it. Her
consent to Victoria's interview with Melrose had been only obtained from her with difficulty.
And now she was all for retreat--precipitate retreat.

"It's no use. I was a fool to come. We must go back. I always told Felicia it would be no use.
We'd better not have come. I'll not have papa tormented!"

While she was speaking a footman entered, bringing a telegram for Victoria. It was from Tatham
in London.

"Have just seen lawyers. They are of opinion we could not fail in application for proper allowance
and provision for both mother and daughter. Hope you will persuade Mrs. Melrose to let us begin
proceedings at once. Very sorry for your telegram this morning, but only what I expected."

Victoria read the message to her guest, and then did her best to urge boldness--an immediate
stroke. But Netta shook her head despairingly. She could not and would not have her father
harassed. Mr. Melrose would do anything--bribe anybody--to get his way. They would have the
police coming, and dragging her father to prison. It was not to be thought of.

Victoria tried gently to investigate what skeleton might be lying in the Smeath closet, whereof
Mr. Melrose possessed such very useful information. But Netta held her tongue. "Papa had been
very unfortunate, and the Government would like to put him in prison if they could. Edmund
had been always so cruel to him." Beyond this Victoria could not get.

But the determination of the frail, faded woman was unshakable, although she glanced nervously
at her daughter from time to time, as if much more in dread of her opinion than of Victoria's.

Felicia, who had listened in silence to the conversation between her mother and Victoria, turned
round from the window in which she was staring, as soon as Lady Tatham seemed to be finally
worsted.

"Mother, you promised to stay here till Christmas!"

The voice was imperious. Felicia's manner to her mother indeed was often of an unfilial sharpness,
and Victoria was already meditating some gentle discipline on the point.

"Oh, no, Felicia!" said Netta, helplessly, "not till Christmas." Then, remembering herself,
she turned toward her hostess: "It's so kind of you, I'm sure."

"Yes, till Christmas!" repeated Felicia. "You know grandpapa's no worse. You know," the girl
flushed suddenly a bright crimson, "Lord Tatham sent him money--and he's quite comfortable.
I am not going home just yet! I am not going back to Italy--till--I have seen my father!"

She faced round upon Victoria and her mother, her hands on her hips, her breath fluttering.

"Felicia!" cried her mother, "you can't. I tell you--you can't! I should never allow it!"

"Yes, you would, mother! What are you afraid of? He can't kill me. It's ridiculous. I must
see my father. I will! He is getting old--he may die. I will see him before I leave England.
I don't care whether he gives us the money or not!"

Victoria's bright eyes showed her sympathy; though she did not interfere. But Netta shrank
into herself.

"You are always such a wilful child, Felicia! You mustn't do anything without my leave. You'll
kill me if you do."

And ashen-pale, she got up and left the room. Victoria glanced at Felicia.

"Don't do anything against your mother's will," she said gently. "You are too young to decide
these things for yourself. But, if you can, persuade her to follow Lord Tatham's advice. He
is most anxious to help you in the best way. And he does not believe that Mr. Melrose could
hurt your grandfather."

Felicia shook her curly head, frowning.

"One cannot persuade mother--one cannot. She is obstinate--oh, so obstinate! If it were me,
I would do anything Lord Tatham asked me!--anything in the world."

She stood with her hands behind her back, her slight figure drawn up, her look glowing.

Victoria bent over her embroidery, smiling a little, unseen, and, in truth, not ill pleased.
Yet there was something disturbing in these occasional outbursts. For the little Southerner's
own sake, one must take care they led to nothing serious. For really--quite apart from any
other consideration--Harry never took the smallest notice of her. And who could know better
than his mother that his thoughts were still held, still tormented by the vision of Lydia?

Felicia slipped out of a glass door that led to the columned veranda outside. Victoria, mindful
of the girl's delicate look, hurried after her with a fur wrap. Felicia gratefully but absently
kissed her hand, and Victoria left her to her own thoughts.

It was a sunny day, and although November was well in, there was almost an Italian warmth in
this southern loggia where roses were still blooming. Felicia walked up and down, her gaze
wandering over the mountain landscape to the south--the spreading flanks and slopes of the
high fells, scarlet with withered fern, and capped with new-fallen snow. Through the distant
landscape she perceived the line of the stream which ran under Flitterdale Common with its
high cliff-banks, and hanging woods, now dressed in the last richness of autumn. That distant
wall of trees--behind it, she knew, was Threlfall Tower. Her father--her unkind, miserly father,
who hated both her and her mother--lived there.

How far was it? A long way! But she would get there somehow.

"It is my right to see my father!" she said to herself passionately; adding with a laugh which
swept away heroics, "After all, he might take a fancy to me in these clothes!"

And she looked down complacently on the pretty tailor-made skirt and the new shoes that showed
beneath Victoria's fur cloak. In less than a fortnight her own ambition and the devotion of
Victoria's maid, Hesketh, only too delighted to dress somebody so eager to be dressed, for
whom the mere operations of the toilette possessed a kind of religious joy, on whom, moreover,
"clothes" in the proper and civilized sense of the word, sat so amazingly well--had turned
the forlorn little drudge into a figure more than creditable to the pains lavished upon her.
Felicia aimed high. The thought and trouble which the young lady had spent, since her arrival,
on her hair, her hands, and the minor points of English manners, not to mention the padding
and plumping of her small person--which in spite of all her efforts, however, remained of a
most sylphlike slimness--by a generous diet of cream and butter, only she and Hesketh knew.
Victoria guessed, and felt a new and most womanish pleasure in the details of her transformation.
She realized, poignantly, how pleasant it would have been to dress and spoil a daughter.

All the more, as Felicia, after a first eager grasping at pretty things, as a child holds out
covetous hands for toys and sweets, had shown sudden scruples, an unexpected and pretty recoil.

"Don't give me so many things!" she had said, almost with a stamp, the sudden, astonishing
tears in her great eyes; when, after the first week, the new clothes began to shower upon her.
"I can't help wanting them! I adore them! But I won't be a beggar--no! You will think we only
came here for this--to get things out of you. We didn't--we didn't.'"

"My dear, won't you give me the pleasure?" Victoria had said, shamefacedly, putting out a hand
to stroke the girl's hair. Whereupon Felicia had thrown herself impulsively on her knees, with
her arms round the speaker, and there had been a mingled moment of laughter and emotion which
had left Victoria very much astonished at herself, and given Hesketh a free hand. Victoria's
solitary pursuits, the awkward or stately reserve of her ordinary manner, were deplorably interfered
with, indeed, by the advent of this lovely, neglected child, who on her side had fallen passionately
in love with Victoria at first sight and seemed to be now rarely happy out of her company.

After which digression we may return for a moment to Felicia on the loggia, admiring her new shoes.

From that passing ecstasy, she emerged resolved.

"We will stay here till Christmas--and--"

But on the rest of her purpose she shut her small lips firmly. Before she turned indoors, however,
she gave some attention to the course of a white road in the middle distance, on which she
had travelled with Lord Tatham the day he had taken her to Green Cottage. The cottage where
the yellow-haired girl lived lay beyond that nearer hill. Ah! but nobody spoke of that yellow-haired
girl now. Nobody sent flowers or books. Nobody so much as mentioned her name. It was strange--but
singularly pleasing. Felicia raised herself triumphantly on tiptoe, as though she would peer
over the hill into the cottage; and so see for herself how the Signorina Penfold took this
sudden and complete neglect.

Tatham returned from London the following day, bringing Cyril Boden--who was again on the sick
list--with him.

He arrived full of plans for the discomfiture of Melrose, only to be brought up irrevocably
against the stubborn resolve which Netta, wrapped in an irritable and tearful melancholy, opposed
to them all. She would not hear of the legal proceedings he urged upon her; and it was only
on an assurance that nothing could or would be done without her consent, coupled with a good
report of her father, that she at last consented to stay at Duddon till the New Year, so that
further ways of helping her might be discussed.

Felicia, when the thing was settled, danced about Victoria's room, kissed her mother and ran
off at once, with Victoria's permission, to ask the old coachman who ruled the Duddon stables
to give her riding-lessons. Victoria noticed that she carefully avoided consulting Tatham in
any way about her lessons. Indeed the earlier, half-childish, half-audacious efforts she had
made to attract his attention entirely ceased about this time.

And he, as soon as it was evident that Mrs. Melrose would not take his advice, and that legal
proceedings must be renounced, felt a natural slackening of interest in his mother's guests.
He was perfectly kind and polite to them but Netta's cowardice disgusted him; and it was a
personal disappointment to be thus balked of that public campaign against Melrose's enormities
which would have satisfied the just and long-baffled feelings of a whole county; and--incidentally--would
surely have unmasked a greedy and unscrupulous adventurer.

Meanwhile the whole story of Mrs. Melrose and her daughter had spread rapidly through the neighbourhood.
The local papers, now teeming with attacks on Melrose, and the management of the Melrose property,
had fastened with avidity on the news of their arrival. "Mrs. Edmund Melrose and her daughter,
after an absence of twenty years have arrived in Cumbria. They are now staying at Duddon Castle
with Countess Tatham. Mr. Claude Faversham is at Threlfall Tower." These few sentences served
as symbols of a dramatic situation which was being discussed in every house of the district,
in the farms and cottages no less eagerly than by the Andovers and the Bartons. The heiress
of Threlfall was not dead! After twenty years she and her mother had returned to claim their
rights from the Ogre; and Duddon Castle, the headquarters of all that was powerful and respected
in the county, had taken up their cause. Meanwhile the little heiress had been, it seemed,
supplanted. Claude Faversham was in possession at Threlfall, and was being treated as the heir.
Mr. Melrose had flatly refused even to see his wife and daughter whom he had left in poverty
and starvation for twenty years.

Upon these facts the twin spirit of romance and hatred swooped vulturelike. Any story of inheritance,
especially when charm and youth are mixed up with it, kindles the popular mind. It was soon
known that Miss Melrose was pretty, and small; though, said report, worn to a skeleton by paternal
ill-usage. Romance likes its heroines small. The countryside adopted the unconscious Felicia,
and promptly married her to Harry Tatham. What could be more appropriate? Duddon could afford
to risk a dowry; and what maiden in distress could wish for a better Perseus than the splendid
young man who was the general favourite of the neighbourhood?

As to the hatred of Melrose which gave zest to the tale of his daughter, it was becoming a
fury. The whole Mainstairs village had now been ejected, by the help of a large body of police
requisitioned from Carlisle for the purpose. Of the able-bodied, some had migrated to the neighbouring
towns, some were camped on Duddon land, in some wood and iron huts hastily run up for their
accommodation. And thus a village which might be traced in Doomsday Book had been wiped out.
For the sick Tatham had offered a vacant farmhouse as a hospital; and Victoria, Mrs. Andover,
and other ladies had furnished and equipped it. Some twenty cases of enteric and diphtheria,
were housed there, a few of them doomed beyond hope. Melrose had been peremptorily asked for
a subscription to the fund raised, and had replied in his own handwriting that owing to the
heavy expenses he had been put to by the behaviour of his Mainstairs tenants, as reported to
him by his agent, Mr. Faversham, he must respectfully decline. The letter was published in
the two local papers with appropriate comments, and a week later an indignation meeting to
protest against the state of the Threlfall property, and to petition the Local Government Board
to hold an inquiry on the spot, was held in Carlisle, with Tatham in the chair. And everywhere
the public indignation which could not get at Melrose, who now, except for railway journeys,
never showed himself outside the wall of his park, was beginning to fall upon the "adventurer"
who was his tool and accomplice, and had become the supplanter of his young and helpless daughter.
Men who four months before had been eager to welcome Faversham to his new office now passed
him in the street without recognition. At the County Club to which he had been easily elected,
Colonel Barton proposing him, he was conspicuously cut by Barton himself, Squire Andover and
many others following suit. "An impostor, and a cad!" said Barton fiercely to Undershaw. "He
took me in--and I can't forgive him. He is doing all Melrose's dirty work for him, better than
Melrose could do it himself. His letters, for instance, to our Council Committee about the
allotments we are trying to get out of the old villain have been devilish clever, and devilish
impudent! Melrose couldn't have written them. And now this business of the girl!--and the fortune!--sickening!"

"He is a queer chap," said Undershaw thoughtfully. "I've been as mad with him as anybody--but
somehow--don't know. Suppose we wait a bit. Melrose's life is a bad one."

But Barton refused to wait, and went off storming. The facts, he vowed, were more than enough.

The weeks passed on. Duddon knew no longer what Green Cottage was doing. Victoria, at any rate,
was ignorant, and forbore to ask--by word of mouth; though her thoughts were one long interrogation
on the subject of Lydia, both as to the present and the past. Was she still in correspondence
with Faversham, as Victoria now understood from Tatham she had been all the summer? Was she
still defending him? Perhaps engaged to him? For a fair-minded and sensible woman, Victoria
fell into strange bogs of prejudice and injustice in the course of these ponderings.

In her drives and walks at this time, Victoria generally avoided the neighbourhood of the cottage.
But one afternoon at the very end of October, she overtook--walking--a slight, muffled figure
in the Whitebeck road, and recognized Susy Penfold. A constrained greeting passed between them,
and Lady Tatham learnt that Lydia was away--had been away, indeed, since the day following
her last interview with Harry. The very next morning she and her mother had been summoned to
London by the grave illness of Mrs. Penfold's elder sister. And there they were still; though
Lydia was expected home shortly.

Victoria walked on, with relieved feelings, she scarcely knew why. At any rate there had been
no personal contact between Faversham and a charming though foolish girl, during these weeks
of popular indignation.

By what shabby arts had the mean and grasping fellow now installed at Threlfall ever succeeded
in obtaining a hold over a being so refined, so fastidious and--to all appearances--so high-minded,
as Lydia Penfold? To refuse Harry and decline on Claude Faversham! Victoria acknowledged indeed
a certain pseudo-Byronic charm in the man. She could not forget the handsome head as she had
seen it last at the door of Melrose's library; or the melodramatic black and white of the face,
of the small, peaked beard, the dark brows, pale lantern cheeks, and heavy-lidded eyes. All
the picturesque adventurers of the world betray something, she thought, of a common stamp.

At last one evening, when Tatham was away on county business, and Felicia had gone to bed,
Victoria suddenly unburdened herself to Cyril Boden, as they sat one on either side of a November
fire, while a southwesterly gale from the high fells blustered and raged outside.

Boden was the confessor of a good many people. Not that he was by any means an orthodox Christian;
his ascetic ways had very little to do with any accepted form of doctrine. But there was in
him the natural priestly power, which the priest by ordination may have or miss. It was because
men and women realized in himself the presence of a travailing, questioning, suffering soul,
together with an iron self-repression, that those who suffered and questioned came to him,
and threw themselves upon him; often getting more buffeting than balm for their pains; but
always conscious of some mysterious attractions in him, as of one who, like Sir Boris, had
seen the Grail, but might never tell of the vision.

Victoria was truly attached to him. He had been with her during the days of her husband's sudden
illness and death; he had advised her with regard to the passing difficulties of Tatham's school
and college days and pointed a way for her through many perplexities of her own. Duddon was
as much of a home to him, as he probably possessed in the world. When he had worn himself out
with some one or other of the many causes he pursued in South London, working with a sombre
passion which had in it very little of the mystical joy or hope which sustain others in similar
efforts; when he had scarcely a coat to his back, or a shoe to his feet; when his doctor began
to talk of tuberculin tests and the high Alps; then he would wire to Duddon, and come and vegetate
under Victoria's wing, for just as many weeks as were necessary to send him back to London
restored to a certain physical standard. To watch Harry Tatham's wholesome, kindly, prosperous
life, untroubled by any of the nightmares that weighed upon his own, was an unfailing pleasure
to a weary man. He loved both Harry and his mother. Nevertheless, as soon as he arrived, both
felt him the gadfly in the house. His mind was nothing if not critical. And undoubtedly the
sight of easy wealth was an irritation to him. He struggled against it; but sometimes it would out.

As he sat this evening crouched over the fire, his hands spread to the blaze, he looked more
frail than usual; a fact which perhaps, half-consciously, affected Victoria and drew out her
confidence. His dress suit, primevally old, would scarcely, she reflected, hold together another
winter. But how it was to be replaced had already cost her and Harry much thought. There was
nobody more personally, fanatically proud than Boden toward his well-to-do friends. His clothes
indeed were a matter of tender anxiety in the Duddon household, and Tatham's valet and Victoria's
maids did him many small services, some of which he repaid with a smile and a word--priceless
to the recipient; and some he was never aware of. When his visits to Duddon first began, the
contents of his Gladstone bag used to provide merriment in the servants' hall, and legend said
that a young footman had once dared to be insolent to him. Had any one ventured the same conduct
now he would have been sent to Coventry by every servant in the house.

It was to this austere, incalculable, yet always attractive listener, that Victoria told the
story of Harry and Lydia, of the Faversham adventure, and the Melrose inheritance. If she wanted
advice, a little moral guidance for herself--and indeed she did want it--she did not get any;
but of comment there was plenty.

"That's the girl I saw here last time," mused Boden, nursing his knee--"lovely creature--with
some mind in her face. So she's refused Harry--and Duddon?"

"Which no doubt will commend her to you!" said Victoria, not without a certain bristling of
her feathers.

"It does," said Boden quietly. "Upon my word, it was a fine thing to do."

"Just because we happen to be rich?" Victoria's eyelids fluttered a little.

"No! but because it throws a little light on what we choose to call the soul. It brings one
back to a faint belief in the existence of the thing. Here is one of the great fortunes, and
one of the splendid houses of the world, and a little painting girl who makes a few pounds
by her drawings says 'No, thank you!' when they are laid at her feet--because--of a little
trifle called love which she can't bring to the bargain. I confess that bucks one up. 'The
day-star doth his beams restore.'"

He took up the tongs, and began absently to rebuild the fire. Victoria waited on his remarks
with heightened colour.

"Of course I'm sorry for Harry," he said, after a moment, with his queer smile. "I saw there
was something wrong when I arrived. But it's salutary--very salutary! Hasn't he had everything
in the world he wanted from his cradle? And isn't it as certain as anything can be that he'll
find some other charming girl, who'll faint with joy, when he asks her, and give you all the
grandchildren you want? And meanwhile we have this bit of the heroic--this defiance of a miry
world, cropping up--to help us out of our mud-holes. I'm awfully sorry for Harry--but I take
off my hat to the girl."

Victoria's expression became sarcastic.

"Who will ultimately marry," she said, "according to my interpretation of the business, a first-class
adventurer--possessed of a million of money--stolen from its proper owners."

"I don't believe it. I've seen her! But, upon my word, what a queer parable it all is! Shall
I tell you how it shapes itself to me?" He looked, tongs in hand, at Victoria, his greenish
eyes all alive. "I see you all--you, Harry, Faversham, and Melrose, Miss Lydia--grouped round
a central point. The point is wealth. You are all in different relations to wealth. You and
Harry are indifferent to wealth, because you have always had it. It has come to you without
toiling and spinning--can you imagine being without it?--but it has not spoilt you. You sit
loose to it; because you have never struggled for it. But I doubt whether the Recording Angel,
when it comes to reckoning up, will give you very high marks for your indifference! Dear friend!"--he
put out a sudden hand and touched Victoria's--"bear with me! There's one thing you'll hear,
if any one does, at the last day--'I was a stranger and ye took me in.'" His eyes shone upon her.

After which, he resumed in his former tone: "Then take Melrose. He too is determined by his
relation to wealth. Wealth has just ruined him--burnt him up--made out of him so much refuse
for the nether fires. Faversham again! Wealth, the crucial, deciding factor! The testing with
him is still going on. He seems, from your account, to be coming out badly. And lastly, the
girl--who, like you, is indifferent to wealth, but for different reasons; who probably hates
and shrinks from it; like a wild bird that fears the cage. You, my dear lady--you and Harry--have
got so used to wealth, its trammels no longer gall you. You carry the weight of it, as the
horse of the Middle Ages carried his trappings; it's second nature. And you can enjoy, you
can move, you can feel, in spite of it. You have risked your soul, without knowing it; but
you have kept your soul! This girl, I take it, is afraid to risk her soul. She is not in love
with Harry--worse luck for Harry!--she is in love--remember I have talked to her a little!--with
something she calls beauty, with liberty, with an unfettered course for the spirit, with all
the lovely, intangible, priceless best, which the world holds for its true lovers. Wealth grasping
at that best has a way of killing it--as the child kills the butterfly. That's what she's afraid
of. As to Faversham"--he got up from his seat, and with his thumbs in his waistcoat began to
pace the room--"Faversham no doubt is in a bad way. He's on the road to damnation. Melrose
of course is damned and done with. But Faversham? I reserve judgment. If he's in love with
that girl, and she with him--I can't make out, however, that you have much reason to think
it--but suppose he is, she'll have the handling of him. Shan't we back her?"

He turned with vivacity to his hostess.

Victoria laughed indignantly.

"You may if you like. The odds are too doubtful for me."

"That's because you're Harry's mother!" he said with his sly, but most winning, smile. "Well--there's
the parable--writ large. Mammon!--how you get it--how you use it--whether you dominate it--or
it dominates you. Whether it is the greater curse, or the greater blessing to men--it was the
question in Christ's day--it's the question now. But it has never been put with such intensity,
as to this generation! As to your particular version of the parable--I wait to see! The tale's
not through yet."

XVIII

A few days later, Lady Tatham received a letter, which she opened with some agitation. It was
from Lydia in London:

"DEAR LADY TATHAM:

"I have waited some weeks before writing to you, partly because, as Susy I hear has told you,
I have been busy nursing my mother's sister, but still more because my heart failed me--again
and again.

"And yet I feel I ought to write--partly in justice to myself--partly to ask you to forgive
the pain I fear I may have caused you. I know--for he has told me--that Lord Tatham never concealed
from you all that has passed between us; and so I feel sure that you know what happened about
a month ago, when we agreed that it would be wiser not to meet again for the present.

"I don't exactly want to defend myself. It still seems to me true that, in the future, men
and women will find it much more possible to be comrades and friends, without any thought of
falling in love or marrying, than they do now; and that it will be a good thing for both. And
if it is true, are not some of us justified in making experiments now? Lord Tatham I know will
have told you I was quite frank from the beginning. I did not wish to marry; but I meant to
be a very true friend; and I wanted to be allowed to love you both, as one loves one's friends,
and to share your life a little. And the thing I most wished was that Lord Tatham should marry--some
one quite different from myself.

"So we agreed that we would write, and share each other's feelings and thoughts as far as we
could. And I hoped that any other idea with regard to me would soon pass out of Lord Tatham's
mind. I did--most sincerely; and I think he believes that I did. How good and dear he always
was to me!--how much I have learnt from him! And yet I am afraid it was all very blind, and
ill-considered--perhaps very selfish--on my part. I did not understand what harm I might do;
though I hope with all my heart--and believe--that I have not done anything irreparable. It
is very hard for me to regret it; because all my life I shall be the richer and the wiser for
having known so good a man; one so true, so unselfish, so high-minded. Women so rarely come
to know men, except in marriage, or through books; and your son's character has sweetened and
ennobled whole sides of life for me--forever.

"But if--in return--I have given him pain--and you, who love him! I was always afraid of you--but
I would have done anything in the world to serve you. Will you let me have a little word--just
to tell me that you forgive, and understand. I ask it with a very sore heart--full, full of
gratitude to him and to you, for all your goodness."

       *       *       *       *       *

Victoria was oddly affected by this letter. It both touched and angered her. She was touched
by what it said, deeply touched; and angered by what it omitted. And yet how could the writer
have said anything more!--or anything else! Victoria admitted that her thoughts had run far
beyond what she knew--in any true sense--or had any right to conjecture. Nevertheless the fact
in her belief remained a fact, that but for Faversham and some disastrous influence he had
gained over her almost at once, Harry would have had his chance with Lydia Penfold. As it was,
she had been allowing Harry to offer her his most intimate thoughts and feelings, while she
was actually falling in love with his inferior. This was what enraged Victoria. Whatever Cyril
Boden might say, it seemed to her maternal jealousy something equivalent to the betrayal of
a sacred confidence.

Yet clearly she could not say so to Lydia Penfold--nor could Lydia confess it! She wrote as
follows:

"MY DEAR MISS PENFOLD:

"It was very kind of you to write to me, I am sure you meant no harm, and I do not pretend
to judge another person's conduct by what I might myself have thought wisest or best. But I
think we all have to learn that the deepest feelings in life are very sensitive, and very incalculable
things; and that the old traditions and conventions respecting them have probably much more
to say for themselves than we like to admit--especially in our youth. Men and women in middle
life may have true and intimate friendships without any thought of marriage. I doubt whether
this is possible for young people, though I know it is the fashion nowadays to behave as though
it were. And especially is it difficult--or impossible--where there has been any thought of
love--on either side. For love is the great, unmanageable, explosive thing, which cannot be
tamed down, at a word, into friendship--not in youth at any rate. The attempt to treat it as
a negligible quantity can only bring suffering and misunderstanding.

"But I must not preach to you like this. I am sure you know--now--that what I say has truth
in it. Thank you again for the feeling that dictated your letter. Harry is very well and very
busy. We hoped to go to London before Christmas, but this most difficult and unhappy affair
of Mrs. Melrose and her daughter detains us. Whether we shall obtain justice for them in the
end I do not know. At present the adverse influences are very strong--and the indignation of
all decent people seems to make no difference. Mr. Faversham's position is indeed difficult
to understand.

"Please remember me kindly to your mother and sister. Next year I hope we shall be able to
meet as usual. But for the present, as you and Harry have agreed, it is better not."

       *       *       *       *       *

Victoria was extremely dissatisfied with this letter when she had done it. But she knew very
well that Harry would have resented a single harsh word from her toward the misguided Lydia;
and she did not know how better to convey the warning that burnt on her lips with regard to
Faversham.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lydia received Victoria's letter on the day of her return to the cottage. Her mother remained
in London.

Susy welcomed her sister affectionately, but with the sidelong looks of the observer. Ever
since the evening of Lady Tatham's visit when Lydia had come back with white face and red eyes
from her walk with Harry Tatham, and when the following night had been broken for Susy by the
sound of her sister's weeping in the room next to her, it had been recognized by the family
that the Tatham affair had ended in disaster, and that Duddon was henceforth closed to them.
Lydia told her mother enough to plunge that poor lady into even greater wonder than before
at the hopeless divergence of young people to-day from the ways and customs of their grandmothers;
and then begged piteously that nothing more might be said to her. Mrs. Penfold cried and kissed
her; and for many days tears fell on the maternal knitting needles, as the fading vision of
Lydia, in a countess' coronet, curtesying to her sovereign, floated mockingly through the maternal
mind. To Susy Lydia was a little more explicit; but she showed herself so sunk in grief and
self-abasement, that Susy had not the heart for either probing or sarcasm. It was not a broken
heart, but a sore conscience--a warm, natural penitence, that she beheld. Lydia was not yet
"splendid," and Susy could not make anything tragic out of her.

At least, on what appeared. And not even Susy's impatience could penetrate beyond appearance.
She longed to say, "Enough of the Tatham affair--now let us come to business. How do you stand
with Claude Faversham?" A number of small indications pointed her subtly, irresistibly in that
direction. But the strength of Lydia's personality stood guard over her secret--if she had one.

All Susy could do was to give Lydia the gossip of the neighbourhood, which she did--copiously,
including the "cutting" of Faversham at the County Club, by Colonel Barton and others. Lydia
said nothing.

In the course of the evening, however, a letter arrived for Lydia, brought by messenger from
Threlfall Tower. Lydia was alone in the sitting-room; Susy was writing upstairs. The letter ran:

"I hear you have returned to-day. May I come and see you to-morrow afternoon--late?"

To which Lydia replied in her firmest handwriting, "Come by all means. I shall be here between
five and six to-morrow." After which she went about with head erect and shining eyes, like
one who has secretly received and accepted a challenge. She was going to sift this matter for
herself. Since a hurried note reporting the latest news of the Mainstairs victims, which had
reached her from Faversham on the morning of her departure for London, she had heard nothing
from him; and during her weeks of nursing in a darkened room, she had sounded the dim and perilous
ways of her own heart as best she could.

She spent the following day in sketching the Helvellyn range, still radiant under its first
snow-cap; sitting warmly sheltered on a southern side of a wall, within sound of the same stream
beside which she and Faversham had met for the first time in the spring, amid the splendid
light and colour of the May sunset.

And now it was already winter. The fell-sides were red with withered fern; their round or craggy
tops showed white against a steely sky; down the withered copses by the stream, the north wind
swept; a golden oak showered its dead leaf upon her. Gray walls, purple fells, the brown and
silver of the stream, all the mountain detail that she loved--she drew it passionately into
her soul. Nature and art--why had she been so faithless to them--she "the earth's unwearied
lover?" She was miserably, ironically conscious of her weakness; of the gap between her spring
and her autumn.

On her return, she told Susy quietly of her expected visitor. Susy raised her eyebrows.

"I shall give him tea," said Susan, "just to save the proprieties with Sarah." Sarah was the
house parlour-maid. "But then you won't need to give me hints."

Susy had departed. Lydia and Faversham sat opposite each other in the little drawing-room.

Lydia's first impression on seeing him had been one of dismay. He looked much older; and a
certain remoteness, a cold and nervous manner seemed to have taken the place of the responsive
ease she remembered. It began to cost her an effort to remember the emotion of their last meeting
in the Mainstairs lane.

But when they were alone together, he drew a long breath, and leaning forward over the table
before them, his face propped on his hand, he looked at her earnestly.

"I wonder what you have been hearing about me?"

Lydia made a brave effort, and told him. She repeated to him the gist of what Susan had reported
the night before, putting it lightly--apologetically--as though statements so extravagant had
only to be made to be disproved. His mind meanwhile was divided between strained attention,
and irrepressible delight in the spectacle of Lydia enthroned in her mother's chair, of the
pale golden hair rippling back from the broad forehead, and the clear eyes beneath the thin
dark arch of the brows, so delicately traced on the white skin; of all the play of gesture
and expression that made up her beauty. Existence for him during these weeks of her absence
had largely meant expectation of this moment. He had discounted all that she would probably
say to him; his replies were ready.

And she no sooner paused than he began an eager and considered defence of himself. A defence
which, as he explained, he had intended to make weeks before. He had called the very day after
their hurried departure for London; and having missed them, had then decided to wait till they
could talk face to face. Le papier est bête! "I had too much to say!"

Well, when he had said it, to what did it amount? He claimed the right to tell the whole story;
and began therefore by tracing the steps by which he had become necessary to Melrose; by describing
his astonishment when the offer of the agency was made to him; and the sudden rush of plans
and hopes for the future. Then, by a swift and effective digression he sketched the character
of Melrose, as he had come to know it; the ferocity of the old man's will; his mad obstinacy,
in which there was always a touch of fantastic imagination; and those alternations of solitude
and excitement, with the inevitable, accompanying defiance of all laws of health, physical
and moral, which for years had made up his life.

"Let us remember that he is undoubtedly a sick man. He will tell me nothing of what his doctors
say to him. But I put two and two together. I don't believe he can possibly live long. A year
or two at most; perhaps much less. When I accepted the agency, I confess I thought his physical
weakness would oblige him to put the whole management of the estate into my hands. It has not
been so. The mind, the will are iron, whatever the physical weakness may be. He conceives himself
as a rock in the Socialist torrent, bound to oppose reforms, and concessions, and innovations,
just because they are asked of him by a revolutionary society. He reckons that his life will
last out his resistance--his successful resistance--and that he will go down with the flag
flying. So that he takes an insane pleasure in disappointing and thwarting the public opinion
about him. For it is insane--remember that! The moral state, the moral judgments, are all abnormal;
the will and the brain are, so far as his main pursuits are concerned, still superb."

He paused. Her gaze--half-shrinking--was fixed on the face so near to her; on the profound
and resolute changes which had passed over the features which when she first saw them had still
the flexibility of youth. The very curls and black hair lying piled above the forehead in which
there were already two distinct transverse lines, seemed to have grown harsher and stronger.

"This, of course, is what I discovered as soon as I had taken the agency. I did not know my
man when I accepted. I began to know him, as soon as we really came to business. I found him
opposed to all reform--incapable even of decent humanity. Very well! Was I to throw up?"

His eyes pierced into hers. Lydia could only murmur: "Go on."

"Suppose I had thrown up!--what would have happened? The estate would have sunk, more and more
lamentably, into the power of a certain low attorney who has been Melrose's instrument in all
his worst doings for years--and of a pair of corrupt clerks in the local office. Who would
have gained? Not a soul! On the contrary, much would have been lost. Heaven knows I have been
able to do little enough. But I have done something!--I have done something!--that is what
people forget."

He looked at her passionately; a distress rising in his eyes, which he could not hide. Was
it her silence--the absence of any cheering, approving sound from her?

She lifted her hand, and let it drop.

"Mainstairs!" she said. It was just breathed--a cry of pain.

"Yes--Mainstairs! I know--let us tackle Mainstairs. Mainstairs is a horror--a tragedy. If I
had been allowed, I should have set the whole thing right a couple of months ago; I should
have re-housed some of the people, closed some of the cottages, repaired others. Mr. Melrose
stopped everything. There again--what good could I do by throwing up? I had plenty of humdrum
work elsewhere that was not being interfered with--work that will tell in the long run. I left
Mainstairs to Melrose; the responsibility was his, not mine. I went on with what I was doing.
He and the police--thank heaven!--cleared the place."

"And in the clearing, Mr. Melrose, they say, never lifted a finger to help--did not even give
money," said Lydia in the same low, restrained voice, as she looked away from her guest into
the fire. "And one sits thinking--of all the dead--that might have been saved!"

His frowning distress was evident.

"Do I not feel it as much as any one?" he said, with emotion. "I was helpless!"

There was silence. Then Lydia turned sharply toward him.

"Mr. Faversham! Is it true that Mr. Melrose has made you his heir?"

His face changed.

"Yes--it is true."

"And he has refused to make any provision for his wife and daughter?"

"He has. And more than that"--he looked at her with a defiant candour--"he has tried to bind
me in his will to do nothing for them."

"And you have allowed it?"

"I shall soon get round that," he said, scornfully. "There are a thousand ways. Such restrictions
are not worth the paper they are written on."

"And meanwhile they are living on charity? And Mr. Melrose, as you say, may last some years.
I saw Mrs. Melrose pass this morning in a carriage. She looked like a dying woman."

"I have done my best," he said doggedly. "I have argued--and entreated. To no avail!"

"But you are taking the money"--the quiet intensity of the tone affected him strangely--"the
money, that should be theirs--the money which has been wrung--partly--from this wretched estate.
You are accepting gifts and benefits from a man you must loathe and despise!"

She was trembling all over. Her eyes avoided his as she sat downcast; her head bent under the
weight of her own words.

There was silence. But a silence that spoke. For what was in truth the meaning of this interview--of
his pleading--and her agonized, reluctant judgment? No ordinary acquaintance, no ordinary friendship
could have brought it about. Things unspoken, feelings sprung from the flying seeds of love,
falling invisible on yielding soil, and growing up a man knoweth not how--at once troubled
and united them. The fear of separation had grown, step by step, with the sense of attraction
and of yearning. It was because their hearts reached out to each other that they dreaded so
to find some impassable gulf between them.

He mastered himself with difficulty.

"That is one way of putting it. Now let me put it my way. I am a man who has had few chances
in life--and great ambitions--which I have never had the smallest means of satisfying. I may
be the mere intriguer that Tatham and his mother evidently think me. But I am inclined to believe
in myself. Most men are. I feel that I have never had my opportunity. What is this wealth that
is offered me, but an opportunity? There never was so much to be done with wealth--so much
sheer living to be got out of it, as there is to-day. Luxury and self-indulgence are the mere
abuse of wealth. Wealth means everything nowadays that a man is most justified in desiring!--supposing
he has the brains to use it. That at any rate is my belief. It always has been my belief. Trust
me--that is all I ask of my friends. Give me time. If Mr. Melrose were to die soon--immediately--I
should be able all the quicker to put everything to rights. But if his death is delayed a year
or two--my life indeed will be a dog's life"--he spoke with sudden emotion--"but the people
on the estate will not be the worse, but the better, for my being there; and in the end the
power will come to me--and I shall use it. So long as Melrose lives his wife and daughter can
get nothing out of him, whether I am there or not. His obstinacy is immovable, as Lady Tatham
has found, and when he dies, their interests will be safe with me."

Lydia had grown very pale. The man before her seemed to her Faversham, yet not Faversham. Some
other personality, compounded of all those ugly, sophistic things that lurk in every human
character, seemed to be wrestling with, obscuring the real man.

"And the years till this stage comes to an end?" she asked him. "When every day you have to
do what you feel to be wrong?--to obey--to be at the beck and call of such a man as Mr. Melrose?--hateful--cruel--tyrannical!--when
you must silence all that is generous and noble--"

Her voice failed her.

Faversham's lips tightened. They remained looking at each other. Then Faversham rose suddenly.
He stooped over her. She heard his voice, hoarse and broken in her ears:

"Lydia--I love you!--I love you--with all my heart!--and all my strength! Don't, for God's
sake, let us make believe with each other! And--I believe," he added, after a moment, in a
lower tone, "I believe--that you love me!"

His attitude, his manner were masterful--violent. She trembled under it. He tried to take her hand.

"Speak to me!" he said, peremptorily. "Oh, my darling--speak to me! I only ask you to trust
to me--to be guided by me--"

She withdrew her hand. He could see her heart fluttering under the soft curves of the breast.

"I can't--I can't!"

The words were said with anguish. She covered her face with her hands.

"Because I won't do what you wish? What is it you wish?"

They had come to the deciding moment.

She looked up, recovering self-control, her heart rushing to her lips.

"Give it up!" she said, stretching out her hands to him, her head thrown back, all her delicate
beauty one prayer. "Don't touch this money! It is stained--it is corrupt. You lose your honour
in taking it--and honour--is life. What does money matter? The great things that make one happy
have nothing to do with money. They can be had for so little! And if one loses them--honour
and self-respect--and a clear conscience--how can money make up! If I were to marry you--and
we had to live on Mr. Melrose's money--everything in life would be poisoned for me. I should
always see the faces--of those dead people--whom I loved. I should hear their voices--accusing.
We should be in slavery--slavery to a bad man--and our souls would die--"

Her voice dropped--drowned in the passion of its own entreaty.

Faversham pressed her hands, released them, and slowly straightened himself to his full height,
as he stood beside her on the hearthrug. A vision rose and spread through the mind. In place
of the little sitting-room, the modest home of refined women living on a slender income, he
saw the great gallery at Threlfall with its wonderful contents, and the series of marvellous
rooms he had now examined and set in order. Vividly, impressively the great house presented
itself to him in memory, in all its recovered grace and splendour; a treasury of art, destined
to be a place of pilgrimage for all who adore that lovely record of itself in things subtle
and exquisite which the human spirit has written on time. Often lately he had wrung permission
from Melrose to take an English or foreign visitor through some of the rooms. He had watched
their enthusiasm and their ardour. And mingled with such experience, there had been now for
months the intoxicating sense that everything in that marvellous house was potentially his--Claude
Faversham's, and would all some day come into his hands, the hands of a man specially prepared
by education and early circumstance to enjoy, to appreciate.

And the estate. As in a map, he saw its green spreading acres, its multitude of farms, its
possessions of all kind, spoilt and neglected by one man's caprice, but easily to be restored
by the prudent care of his successor. He realized himself in the future as its owner; the inevitable
place that it would give him in the political and social affairs of the north. And the estate
was not all. Behind the estate lay the great untrammelled fortune drawn from quite other sources
of wealth; how great he was only now beginning to know.

A great sigh shook him--a sigh of decision. What he had been listening to had been the quixotism
of a tender heart, ignorant of life and affairs, and all the wider possibilities open to man's
will. He could not yield. In time she must be the one to yield. And she would yield. Let him
wait, and be patient. There were many ways in which to propitiate, to work upon her.

He looked down upon her gravely, his dark pointed face quivering a little. Instinctively she
drew back. Her expression changed.

"I can't do that." His voice was low but firm. "I feel the call to me. And after all, Melrose
has claims on me. To me, personally, his generosity--has been incredible. He is old--and ill.
I must stay by him."

Her mind cried out, "Yes--but on your own terms, not his!"

But she did not say it. Her pride came to her aid. She sprang up, a glittering animation flashing
back into her face, transforming its softness, its tenderness.

"I understand--I quite understand. Thank you for being so plain--and bearing with my--strange
ideas. Now--I don't think we can be of any further use to each other--though--" she clasped
her hands involuntarily--"I shall always hope and pray--"

She did not finish. He broke into a cry.

"Lydia! you send me away?"

"I don't accept your conditions--nor you mine. There is no more to be said."

He looked at her sombrely, remorse struggling with his will. But also anger--the anger of a
naturally arrogant temperament--that he should find her so resistant.

"If you loved me--"

"Ah--no," she shook her head fiercely, the bright tears in her eyes; "don't let's talk of love!
That has nothing to say to it."

She turned, and took up a piece of embroidery lying on a table near. He accepted the indication,
turning very white. But still he lingered.

"Is there nothing I could say that would alter your mind?"

"I am afraid--nothing."

She gave him her hand. He scarcely dared to press it; she had become suddenly so strong, so
hostile. Her light beauty had turned as it were to fire; one saw the flame of the spirit.

A tumult of thoughts and regrets rushed through him. But things inexorable held him. With a
long, lingering look at her, he turned and went.

A little later, Susy entering timidly found Lydia sitting alone in a room that was nearly dark.
Some instinct guided her. She came in, took a stool beside her sister, and leant her head against
Lydia's knee. Lydia said nothing, but their hands joined, and for long they sat in the firelight,
the only sounds, Lydia's stifled sobbing, and the soft crackling of a dying flame.

BOOK IV

XIX

Tatham was returning alone from a run with the West Cumbrian hounds. The December day was nearly
done, and he saw the pageant of its going from a point on the outskirts of his own park. The
park, a great space of wild land extending some miles to the north through a sparsely peopled
county, was bounded and intersected throughout its northerly section by various high moorland
roads. At a cross-road, leading to Duddon on the left, and to a remote valley running up the
eastern side of Blencathra on the right, he reined up his horse to look for a moment at the
sombre glow which held the western heaven; amid which the fells of Thirlmere and Derwentwater
stood superbly ranged in threatening blacks and purples. To the east and over the waste of
Flitterdale, that great flat "moss" in which the mountains die away, there was the prophecy
of moonrise; a pearly radiance in the air, a peculiar whiteness in the mists that had gathered
along the river, a silver message in the sky. But the wind was rising, and the westerly clouds
rushing up. The top of Blencathra was already hidden; it might be a wild night.

Only one luminous point was to be seen, at first, in all the wide and splendid landscape. It
shone from Threlfall Tower, a dark and indistinguishable mass amid its hanging woods.

"Old Melrose--counting out his money!"

But as the scornful fancy crossed his mind, a few other dim and scattered lights began to prick
the gloom of the fast-darkening valley. That twinkle far away, in the direction of St. John's
Vale, might it not be the light of Green Cottage--of Lydia's lamp?

He sat his horse, motionless, consumed with longing and grief. Yet, hard exercise in the open
air, always seemed to bring him a kind of physical comfort. "It was a jolly run!" he thought,
yet half ashamed. His young blood was in love with life, through all heartache.

Suddenly, a whirring sound from the road on his right, and the flash of moving lamps. He saw
that a small motor was approaching, and his mare began to fidget.

"Gently, old girl!"

The motor approached and slowed at the corner.

"Hallo Undershaw! is that you?"

The motor stopped and Undershaw jumped out, and turned off his engine. Tatham's horse was pirouetting.

"All right," said Undershaw; "I'll walk by you a bit. Turn her up your road."

The beautiful mare quieted down, and presently the two were in close talk, while the motor
left to itself blazed on the lonely moorland road.

Undershaw was describing a visit he had paid that morning to old Brand, the bailiff, who was
now quietly and uncomplainingly losing hold on life.

"He may go any time--perhaps to-night. The elder son's departure has finished him. I told the
lad that if he cared to stay till his father's death, you would see that he got work meanwhile
on the estate; but he was wild to go--not a scrap of filial affection that I could make out!--and
the poor old fellow has scarcely spoken since he left the house. So there he is, left with
the feeble old wife, and the half-witted son, who grows queerer and madder than ever. I needn't
say the woman was very grateful--"

"Don't!" said Tatham; "it's a beastly world."

They moved on in silence, till Undershaw resumed:

"Dixon came to the surgery this afternoon, and I understood from him that he thinks Melrose
is breaking up fast. He tries to live as usual; and his temper is appalling. But Dixon sees
a great change."

"Well, it'll scarcely be possible to say that his decease 'cast a gloom over the countryside.'
Will it?" laughed Tatham.

"What'll Faversham do? That's what I keep asking myself."

"Do? Why, go off with the shekels, and be damned to us! I understand that just at present he's
paying rather high for them, which is some satisfaction. That creature Nash told one of our
men the other day that Melrose now treats him like dirt, and finds his chief amusement in stopping
anything he wants to do."

"Then he'd better look sharp after the will," said Undershaw, with a smile. "Melrose is game
for any number of tricks yet. But I don't judge Faversham quite as you do. I believe he has
all sorts of grand ideas in his head about what he'll do when he comes in."

"I daresay! You need 'em when you begin with taking soiled money. Mrs. Melrose got the quarterly
payment of her allowance yesterday, from an Italian bank--twenty-five pounds minus ten pounds,
which seems to be mortgaged in some way. Melrose's solicitors gracefully let her know that
the allowance was raised by twenty pounds! On fifteen pounds therefore she and the girl are
expected to exist for the quarter--and support the old father. And yesterday just after my
mother had shown me the check, I saw Faversham in Pengarth, driving a Rolls-Royce car, brand-new,
with a dark fellow beside him whom I know quite well as a Bond Street dealer. I conclude Faversham
was taking him to see the collections--his collections!"

"It looks ugly I grant. But I believe he'll provide for the girl as soon as he can."

"And I hope she'll refuse it!" cried Tatham. "And I believe she will. She's a girl of spirit.
She talks of going on the stage. My mother has found out that she's got a voice, and she dances
divinely. My mother's actually got a teacher for her from London, whom we put up in the village."

"A lovely little girl!" said Undershaw. "And she's getting over her hardships. But the mother--"
He shook his head.

"You think she's in a bad way?"

"Send her back to Italy as soon as you can. She's pining for her own people. Life's been a
bit too hard for her, and she never was but a poor thing. Well, I must go."

Tatham stayed his horse. Undershaw, added as though by an afterthought:

"I was at Green Cottage this morning. Mrs. Penfold's rather knocked up with nursing her sister.
She chattered to me about Faversham. He used to be a good deal there but they've broken with
him too; apparently, because of Mainstairs. Miss Lydia couldn't stand it. She was so devoted
to the people."

The man on horseback made some inaudible reply, and they began to talk of a couple of sworn
inquiries about to be held on the Threlfall estate by the officials of the Local Government
Board, into the housing and sanitation of three of the chief villages on Melrose's property.
The department had been induced to move by a committee of local gentlemen, in which Tatham
had taken a leading part. The whole affair had reduced itself indeed so far to a correspondence
duel between Tatham, as representing a scandalized neighbourhood, and Faversham, as representing
Melrose.

Tatham's letters, in which a man, with no natural gift for the pen, had developed a surprising
amount of effective sarcasm, had all appeared in the local press; with Faversham's ingenious
and sophistical replies. Tatham discussed them now with Undershaw in a tone of passionate bitterness.
The doctor said little. He had his own shrewd ideas on the situation.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Undershaw left him, Tatham rode on, up the forest lane, till again the trees fell away,
the wide valley with its boundary fells opened before him, and again his eye sought through
the windy dusk for the far-gleaming light that spoke to him of Lydia. His mind was full of
fresh agitation, stirred by Undershaw's remark about her. The idea of a breach between Lydia
and Faversham was indeed most welcome, since it seemed to restore Lydia to that pedestal from
which it had been so hard and strange to see her descend. It gave him back the right to worship
her! And yet, the notion did nothing--now--to revive any hope for himself. He kept the distant
light in view for long, his heart full of a tenderness which, though he did not know it, had
already parted with much of the bitterness of unsatisfied passion. Unconsciously, the healing
process was on its way; the healing of the normal man, on whom a wound is no sooner inflicted
than all the reparative powers of life rush together for its cure.

      *       *       *       *

But while Tatham, wrapped in thoughts of Lydia, was thus drawing homeward, across the higher
ground of the estate, down through the Duddon woods, as they fell gently to the river, a little
figure was hurrying, with the step of a fugitive, and half-nervous, half-exultant looks from
side to side. The moon had risen. It was not dark in the woods, and Felicia, amid the boschi
of the Apuan Alps, had never been frightened of the night or of any ill befalling her. In Lucca
itself she might be insulted; on the hills, never. She had the independence, and--generally
speaking--the strength of the working girl. So that the enterprise on which she was launched--the
quest of her father--presented itself to her as nothing particularly difficult. She had indeed
to keep it from her mother and Lady Tatham, and to find means of escaping them. That she calmly
took steps to do, not bothering her head much about it.

As to the rest of the business, there was a station on the Keswick line close to the gate of
the park, and she had looked out a train which would take her conveniently to Whitebeck, which
was only half a mile from Threlfall. From Duddon to Whitebeck took eight minutes in the train.
She would be at Whitebeck a little after five; allowing an hour for her adventure at the Tower,
and some little margin, she would catch a train back between six and seven, which would allow
of her slipping into Duddon a little after seven, unnoticed, and in good time to dress for
dinner. Her Italian blood betrayed itself throughout, alike in the keen pleasure she took in
the various devices of her small plot; in the entire absence of any hampering scruples as to
the disobedience and deceit which it involved; and in the practical intelligence with which
she was ready to carry it out. She had brooded over it for days; and this afternoon a convenient
opportunity had arisen. Her mother was in her room with a headache; Lady Tatham had had to
go to Carlisle on business.

As she hastened, almost running, through the park, she was planning, by fits and starts, what
she would say to her father. But still more was the thinking of Tatham--asking herself questions
about him, with little thrills of excitement, and little throbbings of delicious fear.

Here she was, at the gate of the park. Just ten minutes to her train! She hurried on. A few
labourers were in the road coming home tired from their work; a few cottage doors were ajar,
showing the bright fire, and the sprawling children within. Some of the men as they passed
looked with curiosity at the slim stranger; but she was well muffled up in her new furs--Victoria's
gift--and her large felt hat; they saw little more than the tips of her small nose and chin.

The train came in just as she reached the station. She took her ticket for Whitebeck, and as
the train jogged along, she looked out of the window at the valley in the dim moonrise, her
mind working tumultuously. Lady Tatham had told her much; Hesketh, Lady Tatham's maid, and
the old coachman who had been teaching her to ride, had told her more. She knew that before
she reached Whitebeck she would have passed the boundary between the Duddon and Threlfall estates.
She was now indeed on her father's land, the land which in justice ought to be hers some day;
which in Italy would be hers by law, or part of it anyway, whatever pranks her father might
play. But here in England a man might rob his child of every penny if he pleased. That was
strange when England was such a great country--such a splendid country. "I love England!" she
thought passionately, as she leant back with folded arms and closed eyes.

And straightway on the dusk rose the image of Tatham--Tatham on horseback, as she had seen
him set out for the hunt that morning; and she felt her eyes grow a little wet. Why? Oh! because
he was so tall and splendid--and he sat his horse like a king--and everybody loved him--and
she was living in his house--and so, whether he would or no, he must take notice of her sometimes.
One evening had he not let her mend his glove? And another evening, when she was practising
her dancing for Lady Tatham, had he not come in to look? Ah, well, wait till she could sing
and dance properly, till--perhaps--he saw her on the stage! Her newly discovered singing voice,
which was the excitement of the moment for Lady Tatham and Netta, was to Felicia like some
fairy force within her, struggling to be at large, which would some day carve out her fortunes,
and bring her to Tatham--on equal terms.

For her pride had flourished and fed upon her love. She no longer talked of Tatham to her mother
or any one else. But deep in her heart lay the tenacious, pursuing instinct.

And besides--suppose--she made an impression on her father--on his cruel old heart? Such things
do happen. It's silly to say they don't. "I am pretty--and now my clothes are all right--and
my hands have come nearly white. He'll see I'm not a girl to be ashamed of. And if my father
did give me a dot--why then I'd send my mother to his mother! That's how we'd do it in Italy.
I'm as well-born as he--nearly--and if I had a dot--"

The yellow-haired girl at any rate was quite out of the way. No one spoke of her; no one mentioned
her. That was all right.

And as to Threlfall and her father, if she was able to soften him at all it would not be in
the least necessary to drive that bad young man, Mr. Faversham, to despair. Compromise--bargaining--settle
most things. She fell to imagining--with a Latin clearness and realism--how it might be handled.
Only it would have to be done before her father died. For if Mr. Faversham once took all the
money and all the land, there would be no dot for her, even if he were willing to give it her.
For Lord Tatham would never take a farthing from Mr. Faversham, not even through his wife.
"And so it would be no use to me," thought Felicia, quietly, but regretfully.

Whitebeck station. Out she tripped, asked her way to Threlfall, and hurried off into the dark,
followed by the curious looks of the station-master.

She was soon at the park gate, and passed through it with a beating heart. She had heard of
the bloodhounds; and the sound of a bark in the distance--though it was only the collie at
the farm--gave her a start of terror.

The Whitebeck gate was but a short distance from the house, and as she turned a corner, the
Tower rose suddenly before her. She held her breath; it looked so big, so darkly magnificent.
She thought of all the tales that had been told her, the rooms full of silver and gold--the
arazzi--the stucchi--the cabinets and sculpture. She had grown up in an atmosphere of perpetual
bric-a-brac; she had seen the big Florentine shops; she could imagine what it was like.

There were lights in two of the windows; and the smoke from several chimneys rose wind-beaten
against the woods behind. The moon stood immediately over the roof, and the shadow of the house
stretched beyond the forecourt almost to her feet.

She lingered a few minutes, fascinated, gazing at this huge place where her father lived--her
father whom she had never seen since she was a baby. The moon lit up her tiny figure, and her
small white face, as she stood in the open, alone in the wintry silence.

Then, swiftly, and instead of going up to the front door, she turned to the right along a narrow
flagged path that skirted the forecourt and led to the back of the house.

She knew exactly what to do. She had planned it all with Hesketh, Hesketh, who was the daughter
of a farmer on the Duddon estate, fifty years old, a born gossip, and acquainted with every
man, woman and child in the neighbourhood. Did not Hesketh go to the same chapel with Thomas
Dixon and his wife? And had she not a romantic soul, far above furbelows--a soul which had
flung itself into the cause of the "heiress," to the point of keeping the child's secret, even
from her ladyship? Hesketh indeed had suffered sharply from qualms of conscience in this respect.
But Felicia had spared her as much as possible, by keeping the precise moment of her escapade
to herself.

She groped her way round, till she came to a side path leading to an entrance. The path indeed
was that by which Faversham had been originally carried into the Tower, across the foot-bridge.
Peering over a low wall that bounded the path, she looked startled into an abyss of leafless
trees, with a bright gleam of moonlit water far below. In front of her was a door and steps,
and some rays of light penetrating through the shuttered windows beside the door, showed that
there was life within.

Felicia mounted the steps and knocked. No one came. At last she found a bell and rang it--cautiously.
Steps approached. The door was opened, and a gray-haired woman stood on the threshold.

"Well, what's your business?" she said sharply. It was evident that she was short-sighted,
and did not clearly see the person outside.

"Please, I want to speak to Mr. Melrose."

The clear, low voice arrested the old woman.

"Eh?" she said testily. "And who may you be? You cawn't see Mr. Melrose, anyways."

"I want to see him particularly. Are you Mrs. Dixon?"

"Aye--a'am Mrs. Dixon. But aa've no time to goa chatterin' at doors wi' yoong women; soa if
yo'll juist gie me yor business, I'll tell Muster Faversham, when he's got time to see to 't."

"It's not Mr. Faversham I want to see--it's Mr. Melrose. Mrs. Dixon, don't you remember me?"

Mrs. Dixon stepped back in puzzled annoyance, so as to let a light from the passage shine upon
the stranger's face. She stood motionless.

Felicia stepped within.

"I am Miss Melrose," she said, with composure, "Felicia Melrose. You knew me when I was a child.
And I wish to see my father."

Mrs. Dixon's face seemed to have fallen into chaos under the shock. She stood staring at the
visitor, her mouth working.

"Muster Melrose's däater!" she said, at last. "T' baby--as was! Aye--yo' feature him! An' yo're
stayin' ower ta Duddon--wi' her ladyship. I know. Dixon towd me. Bit yo' shouldna' coom here,
Missie! Yo' canno' see your feyther."

"Why not?" said Felicia imperiously. "I mean to see him. Here I am in the house. Take me to
him at once!"

And suddenly closing the entrance door behind her, she moved on toward an inner passage dimly
lit, of which she had caught sight.

Mrs. Dixon clung to her arm.

"Noa, noa! Coom in here, Missie--coom in here! Dixon!--where are yo'? Dixon!"

She raised her voice. A chair was pushed back in the kitchen, on the other side of the passage.
An old man who, to judge from his aspect, had been roused by his wife's call from a nap after
his tea, appeared in a doorway.

Mrs. Dixon drew Felicia toward him, and into the kitchen, as he retreated thither. Then she
shut and bolted the door.

"This is t' yoong lady!" she said in a breathless whisper to her husband. "Muster-Melrose's
däater! She's coom fra Duddon. An' she's fer seein' her feyther."

Old Dixon had grown very pale. But otherwise he showed no surprise. He looked frowning at Felicia.

"Yo' canno' do that, Miss Melrose. Yo'r feyther wunna see yo'. He's an owd man noo, and we
darena disturb him."

Felicia argued with the pair, first quietly, then with a heaving breast, and some angry tears.
Dixon soon dropped the struggle, so far as words went. He left that to his wife. But he stood
firmly against the door, looking on.

"You shan't keep me here!" said Felicia at last with a stamp. "I'll call some one! I'll make
a noise!"

A queer, humorous look twinkled over Dixon's face. Then--suddenly--he moved from the door.
His expression had grown hesitating--soft.

"Varra well, then. Yo' shall goa--if you mun goa."

His wife protested. He turned upon her.

"She shall goa!" he repeated, striking the dresser beside him. "Her feyther's an old man--an'
sick. Mebbe he'll be meetin' his Mäaker face to face, before the year's oot; yo' canno' tell.
He's weakenin' fasst. An' he's ben a hard mon to his awn flesh and blood. There'll be a reckonin'!
An' the Lord's sent him this yan chance o' repentance. I'll not stan' i' the Lord's way--whativer.
Coom along, Missie!"

And entirely regardless of his wife's entreaties, the old Methodist resolutely opened the kitchen
door, and beckoned to Felicia. He was lame now and walked with a stick, his shoulders bent.
But he neither paused, nor spoke to her again. Murmuring to himself, he led her along the inner
passage, and opened the door into the great gallery.

A blaze of light and colour, a rush of heated air. Felicia was dazzled by the splendour of
the great show within--the tapestries, the pictures, the gleaming reflections on lacquer and
intarsia, on ebony or Sèvres. But the atmosphere was stifling. Melrose now could only live
in the temperature of a hothouse.

Dixon threw open a door, and without a word beckoned to Felicia to enter. He hesitated a moment,
evidently as to whether he should announce her; and then, stepping forward, he cleared his throat.

"Muster Melrose, theer's soom one as wants to speak to you!"

"What do you mean, you old fool!" said a deep, angry voice on the other side of a great lacquer
screen; "didn't I tell you I wasn't to be disturbed?"

Felicia walked round the screen. Dixon, with an excited look at her, retired through the door
which he closed behind him.

"Father!" said Felicia, in a low, trembling voice.

An old man who was writing at a large inlaid table, in the midst of a confusion of objects
which the girl's eyes had no time to take in, turned sharply at the sound.

The two stared at each other. Melrose slowly revolved on his chair, pen in hand. Felicia stood,
with eyes downcast, her cheeks burning, her hands lightly clasped.

Melrose spoke first.

"H'm--so they've sent you here?"

She looked up.

"No one sent me. I--I wished to see you--before we went away; because you are my father--and
I mightn't ever see you--if I didn't now. And I wanted to ask you"--her voice quivered--"not
to be angry any more with mother and me. We never meant to vex you--by coming. But we were
so poor--and mother is ill. Yes, she is ill!--she is--it's no shamming. Won't you forgive us?--won't
you give mother a little more money?--and won't you"--she clasped her hands entreatingly--"won't
you give me a dot? I may want to be married--and you are so rich? And I wouldn't ever trouble
you again--I--"

She broke off, intimidated, paralyzed by the strange fixed look of the old wizard before her--his
flowing hair, his skullcap, his white and sunken features. And yet mysteriously she recognized
herself in him. She realized through every fibre that he was indeed her father.

"You would have done better not to trouble me again!" said Melrose, with slow emphasis. "Your
mother seems to pay no attention whatever to what I say. We shall see. So you want a dot? And,
pray, what do you want a dot for? Who's going to marry you? Tatham?"

The tone was more mocking than fierce; but Felicia shrank under it.

"Oh, no, no! But I might want to marry," she added piteously. "And in Italy--one can't marry--without
a dot!"

"Your mother should have thought of these things when she ran away."

Felicia was silent a moment. Then, without invitation, she seated herself on the edge of a
chair that stood near him.

"That was so long ago," she said timidly--yet confidingly. "And I was a baby. Couldn't you--couldn't
you forget it now?"

Melrose surveyed her.

"I suppose you like being at Duddon?" he asked her abruptly, without answering her question.

She clasped her hands fervently.

"It's like heaven! They're so good to us."

"No doubt!"--the tone was sarcastic. "Well, let them provide for you. Who gave you those clothes?
Lady Tatham?"

She nodded. Her lip trembled. Her startled eyes looked at him piteously.

"You've been living at Lucca?"

"Near Lucca--on the mountains."

"H'm. Is that all true--about your grandfather?"

"That he's ill? Of course, it's true!" she said indignantly. "We don't tell lies. He's had
a stroke--he's dying. And we could hardly give him any food he could eat. You see--"

She edged a little closer, and began a voluble, confidential account of their life in the mountains.
Her voice was thin and childish, but sweet; and every now and then she gave a half-frightened,
half-excited laugh. Melrose watched her frowning; but he did not stop her. Her bright eyes
and brows, with their touches of velvet black, the quick movement of her pink lips, the rose-leaf
delicacy of her colour, seemed to hold him. Among the pretty things with which the room was
crowded she was the prettiest; and he probably was conscious of it. Propped up against the
French bureau stood a Watteau drawing in red chalk--a sanguine--he had bought in Paris on a
recent visit. The eyes of the old connoisseur went from the living face to the drawing, comparing
them.

At last Felicia paused. Her smiles died away. She looked at him wistfully.

"Mother's awfully sorry she--she offended you so. Won't you forgive her now--and poor Babbo--about
the little statue?"

She hardly dared breathe the last words, as she timidly dropped her eyes.

There were tears in her voice, and yet she was not very far from hysterical laughter. The whole
scene was so fantastic--ridiculous! The room with its lumber; its confusion of glittering things;
this old man frowning at her--for no reason! For after all--what had she done? Even the contadini--they
were rough often--they couldn't read or write--but they loved their grandchildren.

As he caught her reference to the bronze Hermes, Melrose's face changed. He rose, stretching
out a hand toward a bell on the table.

"You must go!" he said, sharply. "You ought never to have come. You'll get nothing by it. Tell
your mother so. This is the second attack she has made on me--through her tools. If she attempts
another, she may take the consequences!"

Felicia too stood up. A rush of anger and despair choked her.

"And you won't--you won't even say a kind word to me!" she said, panting. "You won't kiss me?"

For answer, he seized her by the hands, and drew her toward the light. There, for a few intolerable
seconds he looked closely, with a kind of savage curiosity, into her face, studying her features,
her hair, her light form. Then pushing her from him, he opened that same drawer in the French
cabinet that Undershaw had once seen him open, fumbled a little, and took out something that
glittered.

"Take that. But if you come here again it will be the worse for you, and for your mother. When
I say a thing I mean it. Now, go! Dixon shall take you to the train."

Felicia glanced at the Renaissance jewel in her hand--delicate Venus in gold and pearl, set
in a hoop of diamonds. "I won't have it!" she said, dashing it from her with a sob of passion.
"And we won't take your money either--not a farthing! We've got friends who'll help us. And
I'll keep my mother myself. You shan't give her anything--nor my grandfather. So you needn't
threaten us! You can't do us any harm!"

She looked him scornfully over from head to foot, a little fury, with blazing eyes.

Melrose laughed.

"I thought you came to get a dot out of me," he said, with lifted brows, admiring her in spite
of himself. "You seem to have a good spice of the Melrose temper in you. I'm sorry I can't
treat you as you seem to wish. Your mother settled that. Well--that'll do--that'll do! We can't
bandy words any more. Dixon!"

He touched the hand-bell beside him.

Felicia hurried to the door, sobbing with excitement. As she reached it Dixon entered. Melrose
spoke a few peremptory words to him, and she found herself walking through the gallery, Dixon's
hand on her arm, while he muttered and lamented beside her.

"'And the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart.' Aye, it's the Lord--it's the Lord. Oh! Missie, Missie--I
was a fool to let yo' in. Yo've been nowt but a new stone o' stumblin'; an' the Lord knows
there's offences enoof already!"

Meanwhile, in the room from which his daughter had been driven, Melrose had risen from his
seat, and was moving hither and thither, every now and then taking up some object in the crowded
tables, pretending to look at it, and putting it down again. He was pursued, tormented all
the while by swarming thoughts--visualizations. That child would outlive him--her father--perhaps
by a half century. The flesh and blood sprung from his own life, would go on enjoying and adventuring,
for fifty years, perhaps, after he had been laid in his resented grave. And the mind which
would have had no existence had he not lived, would hold till death the remembrance of what
he had just said and done--a child's only remembrance of her father.

He stood, looking back upon his life, and quite conscious of some fatal element in the moment
which had just gone by. It struck him as a kind of moral tale. Some men would say that God
had once more, and finally, offered him "a place of repentance"--through this strange and tardy
apparition of his daughter. A ghostly smile flickered. The man of the world knew best. "Let
no man break with his own character." That was the real text which applied. And he had followed
it. Circumstance and his own will had determined, twenty years earlier, that he had had enough
of women-kind. His dealings with them had been many and various! But at a given moment he had
put an end to them forever. And no false sentimentalism should be allowed to tamper with the
thing done.

At this point he found himself sinking into his chair; and must needs confess himself somewhat
shaken by what had happened. He was angry with his physical weakness, and haunted in spite
of himself by the hue and fragrance of that youth he had just been watching--there--at the
corner of the table--beside the Watteau sketch. He sat staring at the drawing....

Till the threatened vitality within again asserted itself; beat off the besieging thoughts;
and clutched fiercely at some new proof of its own strength. The old man raised himself, and
laid his hand on the telephone which connected his room with that of Faversham.

How, in Dixon's custody, Felicia reached the station, and stumbled into the train, and how,
at the other end, she groped her way into the gates of Duddon and began the long woodland ascent
to the castle, Felicia never afterward knew. But when she had gone a few steps along the winding
drive Where the intermittent and stormy moonlight was barely enough to guide her, she felt
her strength suddenly fail her. She could never climb the long hill to the house--she could
never fight the wind that was rising in her face. She must sit down, till some one came--to help.

She sank down upon a couch of moss, at the foot of a great oak-tree which was still thick with
withered leaf. The mental agitation, and the sheer physical fatigue of her mad attempt had
utterly worn out her barely recovered strength. "I shall faint," she thought, "and no one will
know where I am!" She tried to concentrate her will on the resolution not to faint. Straightening
her back and head against the tree, she clasped her hands rigidly on her knee. From time to
time a wave of passionate recollection would rush through her; and her heart would beat so
fast, that again the terror of sinking into some unknown infinite would string up her will
to resistance. In this alternate yielding and recoil, this physical and mental struggle, she
passed minutes which seemed to her interminable. At last resistance was all but overwhelmed.

"Come to me!--oh, do come to me!"

She seemed to be pouring her very life into the cry. But, probably, the words were only spoken
in the mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

A little later she woke up in bewilderment. She was no longer on the moss. She was being carried--carried
firmly and speedily--in some one's arms. She tried to open her eyes.

"Where am I?"

A voice said:

"That's better! Don't be afraid. You'd fainted I think. I can carry you quite safely."

Infinite bliss rushed in upon the girl's fluttering sense. She was too feeble, too weak, to
struggle. Instead she let her head sink on Tatham's shoulder. Her right hand clung to his coat.

The young man mounted the hill, marvelling at the lightness of the burden he held; touched,
embarrassed, yet sometimes inclined to laugh or scold. What had she been about? He had come
in from hunting to find her absence just discovered, and the house roused. Victoria and Cyril
Boden were exploring other roads through the garden and park; he had run down the long hill
to the station lodge in case the theory started at once by Victoria that she had escaped, unknown
to any one, in order to force an interview with her father should turn out to be the right one.

Presently a trembling voice said in the darkness, while some soft curls of hair tickled his cheek:

"I've been to Threlfall. Will Lady Tatham be very angry?"

"Well, she was a bit worried," said Tatham, wondering if the occasion ought not to be improved.
"She guessed--you might have gone there. There's bad weather coming--and she was anxious what
might happen to you. Ah! there's the rain!"

Two or three large drops descended on Felicia's cheek as it lay upturned on his shoulder; a
pattering began on the oak-leaves overhead; the moonlight was blotted out, and when Felicia
opened her eyes, it was on a heavy darkness.

"Stupid!" cried Tatham. "Why didn't I think of bringing a mackintosh cape?"

"Mayn't I walk?" asked Felicia, meekly. "I think I could."

"I expect you'd better not. You were pretty bad when I found you. It's no trouble to me to
carry you, and I know every inch of these roads."

And indeed by now he would have been very loath to quit his task. There was something tormentingly
attractive in this warm softness of the girl's tiny form upon his breast. The thought darted
across him--"If I had ever held Lydia so!" It was a pang; but it passed; and what remained
was a tenderness of soul, evoked by Lydia, but passing out now beyond Lydia.

Poor little foolish thing! He supposed she had been trampled on, as his mother had been. But
his mother could defend herself. What chance had this child against the old tyrant! An eager,
protective sympathy--a warm pity--arose in him; greatly quickened by this hand and arm that
clung to him.

The rain began to drive against them.

"Do you mind getting wet?" he said laughing, almost in her ear.

"Not a bit! I--I didn't mean to give any trouble."

The tone was penitent. Tatham, forgetting all thoughts of admonition, reassured her.

"You didn't give any. Except--Your mother of course was very anxious about you."

"But I couldn't tell her!" sighed the voice on his shoulder. "She'd have stopped it."

Tatham smiled unseen.

"I'm afraid your father wasn't kind to you," he said, after a pause.

"It was horrible--horrible!" The little body he held shuddered closer to him. "Why does he
hate us so? and I lost my temper too--I stamped at him. But he looks so old--so old! I think
he'll die soon."

"That would be happiest," said Tatham, gravely.

"I told him we would never take any money from him again. I must earn it--I will! Your mother
will lend me a little--for my training. I'll pay it back."

"You poor child!" he murmured.

At that moment they emerged upon the last section of the broad avenue leading to the house.
And the electric light in the pillared porch threw long rays toward them.

"Please put me down," said Felicia, with decision. "I can walk quite well."

He obeyed her. But her weakness was still such, that she could only walk with help. Guiding,
supporting her, he half led, half carried her along.

As they reached the lighted porch, she looked up, her face sparkling with rain, a touch of
mischief in her hollow-ringed eyes.

"How much will they scold?"

"Can't say, I am sure! I think you'll have to bear it."

"Never mind!" Her white cheeks dimpled. "It's Duddon! I'd rather be scolded at Duddon, than
petted anywhere else."

Tatham flushed suddenly. So did she. And as the door opened Felicia walked with composure past
the stately butler.

"Is Lady Tatham in the library?"

Netta Melrose, full of fears, wept that evening over her daughter's rash disobedience. Victoria
administered what reproof she could; and Felicia was reduced to a heated defence of herself,
sitting up in bed, with a pair of hot cheeks and tearful eyes. But when all the lights were
out, and she was alone, she thought no more of any such nips and pricks. The night was joy
around her, and as she sank to sleep; Tatham, in dream, still held her, still carried her through
the darkness and the rain.

XX

While Felicia was making her vain attempt upon her father's pity, Faversham was sitting immersed
in correspondence in his own room at the farther end of the gallery. He heard nothing of the
girl's arrival or departure. Sound travelled but little through the thick walls of the Tower,
and the gallery, muffled with rich carpets, with hangings and furniture, deadened both step
and voice.

The agent was busy with some typewritten evidence that Melrose was preparing wherewith to fight
the Government officials now being sent down from London to inquire into the state of some
portion of the property. The evidence had been collected by Nash, and Faversham read it with
disgust. He knew well that the great mass of it was perjured stuff, bought at a high price.
Yet both in public and private he would have to back up all the lies and evasions that his
master, and the pack of obscure hangers-on who lived upon his pay, chose to put forward.

He set his teeth as he read. The iron of his servitude was cutting its way into life, deeper
and deeper. Could he go on bearing it? For weeks he had lived with Melrose on terms of sheer
humiliation--rated, or mocked at, his advice spurned, the wretched Nash and his crew ostentatiously
preferred to him, even put over him. "No one shall ever say I haven't earned my money," he
would say to himself fiercely, as the intolerable days went by. His only abiding hope and compensation
lay in his intense belief that Melrose was a dying man. All those feelings of natural gratitude,
with which six months before he had entered on his task, were long since rooted up. He hated
his tyrant, and he wished him dead. But the more he dwelt for consolation on the prospect of
Melrose's disappearance, the more attractive became to him the vision of his own coming reign.
Some day he would be his own master, and the master of these hoards. Some day he would emerge
from the cloud of hatred and suspicion in which he habitually walked; some day he would be
able once more to follow the instincts of an honest man; some day he would be able again--perhaps--to
look Lydia Penfold in the face! Endurance for a few more months, on the best terms he could
secure, lest the old madman should even yet revoke his gifts; and then--a transformation scene--on
the details of which his thoughts dwelt perpetually, by way of relief from the present. Tatham
and the rest of his enemies, who were now hunting and reviling him, would be made to understand
that if he had stooped, he had stooped with a purpose; and that the end did in this case justify
the means.

A countryside cleansed, comforted, remade; a great estate ideally managed; a great power to
be greatly used; scope for experiment, for public service, for self-realization--he greedily,
passionately, foresaw them all. Let him be patient. Nothing could interfere with his dream,
but some foolish refusal of the conditions on which alone it could come true.

Often, when this mood of self-assertion was on him, he would go back in thought to his boyish
holidays in Oxford, and to his uncle. He saw the kind old fellow in his shepherd plaid suit,
black tie, and wide-awake, taking his constitutional along the Woodstock road, or playing a
mild game of croquet in the professorial garden; or he recalled him among his gems--those rare
and beautiful things, bought with the savings of a lifetime, loved, each of them, for its own
sake, and bequeathed at death, with the tender expression of a wish--no tyrannical condition!--to
the orphan boy whom he had fathered.

The thought of what would--what must be--Uncle Mackworth's judgment on his present position,
was perhaps the most tormenting element in Faversham's consciousness. He faced it, however,
with frankness. His uncle would have condemned him--wholly. The notion of serving a bad man,
for money, would have been simply inconceivable to that straight and innocent soul. Are there
not still herbs to be eaten under hedgerows, with the sauce of liberty and self-respect?

No doubt. But man is entitled to self-fulfilment; and men pursue vastly different ways of obtaining
it. The perplexities of practical ethics are infinite; and mixed motives fit a mixed world.

At least he had not bartered away his uncle's treasure. The gems still stood to him as the
symbol of something he had lost, and might some day recover. It was really time he got them
out of Melrose's clutches...

...The room was oppressively hot! It was a raw December night, but the heating system of the
Tower was now so perfect, and to Faversham's mind so excessive, that every corner of the large
house was bathed in a temperature which seemed to keep Melrose alive, while it half suffocated
every other inmate.

Suddenly the telephone bell on his writing-desk rang. His room was now connected with Melrose's
room, at the other end of the house, as well as with Pengarth. He put his ear to the receiver.

"Yes?"

"I want to speak to you."

He rose unwillingly. But at least he could air the room, which he would not have ventured to
do, if Melrose were coming to him as usual for the ten minutes' hectoring, which now served
as conversation between them, before bedtime. Going to the window which gave access to the
terrace outside, he unclosed the shutters, and threw open the glass doors. He perceived that
it had begun to rain, and that the night was darkening. He stood drinking in the moist coolness
of the air for a few seconds, and then leaving the window open, and forgetting to extinguish
the electric light on his table he went out of the room.

He found Melrose in his chair, his aspect thunderous and excited.

"Was it by your plotting, sir, that that girl got in?" said the old man, as he entered.

Faversham stood amazed.

"What girl?"

Melrose angrily described Felicia's visit, adding that if Faversham knew nothing about it,
it was his duty to know. Dixon deserved dismissal for his abominable conduct; "and you, sir,
are paid a large salary, not only to manage--or mismanage--my affairs, but also to protect
your employer from annoyance. I expect you to do it!"

Faversham took the charge quietly. His whole relation to Melrose had altered so rapidly for
the worse during the preceding weeks that no injustice or unreason surprised him. And yet there
was something strange--something monstrous--in the old man's venomous temper. After all his
bribes, after all his tyranny, did he still feel something in Faversham escape him?--some deep-driven
defiance, or hope, intangible? He seemed indeed to be always on the watch now for fresh occasions
of attack that should test his own power, and Faversham's submission.

Presently, he abruptly left the subject of his daughter, and Faversham did not pursue it. What
was the good of inquiring into the details of the girl's adventure? He guessed pretty accurately
at what had happened; the scorn which had been poured on the suppliant; the careless indifference
with which she had been dismissed--through the rain and the night. Yet another scandal for
a greedy neighbourhood!--another story to reach the ears of the dwellers in a certain cottage,
with the embellishments, no doubt, which the popular hatred of both himself and Melrose was
certain to supply. He felt himself buried a little deeper under the stoning of his fellows.
But at the same time he was conscious--as of a danger point--of a new and passionate exasperation
in himself. His will must control it.

Melrose, however, proceeded to give it fresh cause. He took up a letter from Nash containing
various complaints of Faversham, which had reached him that evening.

"You have been browbeating our witnesses, sir! Nash reports them as discouraged, and possibly
no longer willing to come forward. What business had you to jeopardize my interests by posing
as the superior person? The evidence had been good enough for Nash--and myself. It might have
been good enough for you."

Faversham smiled, as he lit his cigarette.

"The two men you refer to--whom you asked me to see yesterday--were a couple of the feeblest
liars I ever had to do with. Tatham's counsel would have turned them inside out in five minutes.
You seem to forget the other side are employing counsel."

"I forgot nothing!" said Melrose hotly. "But I expect you to follow your instructions."

"The point is--am I advising you in this matter, or am I merely your agent? You seem to expect
me to act in both capacities. And I confess I find it difficult."

Melrose fretted and fumed. He raised one point after another, criticising Faversham's action
and advice in regard to the housing inquiries, as though he were determined to pick a quarrel.
Faversham met him on the whole with wonderful composure, often yielding in appearance, but
in reality getting the best of it throughout. Under the mask of the discussion, however, the
temper of both men was rising fast. It was as though two deep-sea currents, converging far
down, were struggling unseen toward the still calm surface, there to meet in storm and convulsion.

Again, Melrose changed the conversation. He was by now extraordinarily pale. All the flushed
excitement in which Faversham had found him had disappeared. He was more spectral, more ghostly--and
ghastly--than Faversham had ever seen him. His pincerlike fingers played with the jewel which
Felicia had thrown down upon the table. He took it up, put on his eyeglass, peered at it, put
it down again. Then he turned an intent and evil eye on Faversham.

"I have now something of a quite different nature to say to you. You have, I imagine, expected
it. You will, perhaps, guess at it. And I cannot imagine for one moment that you will make
any difficulty about it."

Faversham's pulse began to race.

He suspended his cigarette.

"What is it?"

"I am asked to send a selection of antique gems to the Loan Exhibition which is being got up
by the 'Amis du Louvre' in Paris, after Christmas. I desire to send both the Arconati Bacchus
and the Medusa--in fact all those now in the case committed to my keeping."

"I have no objection," said Faversham. But he had suddenly lost colour.

"I can only send them in my own name," said Melrose slowly.

