VOL. I.--NO. 17.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRACKING A BURIED RIVER.

THE ADVENTURE OF TWO SAILOR BOYS.

     "The sum of 3000 francs [$600] will be paid by the Scientific
     Association of Morlaix to any one who shall succeed in tracing the
     course of the Larve, and ascertaining whether it has any
     under-ground communication with the sea.

  "FÉLIX DELAROCHE, President."

Such was the announcement which, posted in the quaint three-cornered market-place of the old
French town of Longchamp, attracted a good many readers, and among the rest two lads in sailor
costume, one of whom remarked to the other:

"What a holiday we'd have if we could earn it! eh, Pierre, my boy?"

"I should think so! But nobody will earn that reward very soon. Don't you remember how, a year
ago, they widened the cleft into which the stream falls, and let down a man with a lantern,
and how, before he'd gone thirty feet, he got bumped against a rock, and broke his lantern,
and hurt himself so badly that he had to be hauled up again?"

"True; it's not a very likely job. Well, come along, and let's get the boat out."

Pierre Lebon, the younger of the two, was a lithe, olive-cheeked, merry little fellow, whose
slim figure and jaunty black curls contrasted markedly with the burly frame and thick sandy
hair of his chum, Jacques Vaudry. The latter ought rightly to have been called Jack Fordrey,
for he was an English boy, born in Guernsey; but having been adopted by a Breton fisherman
after his father's death, both he and his name had got considerably "Frenchified."

The two boys had to manage by themselves the boat of which they were joint owners, for old
Simon Lebon, Pierre's real and Jack's adopted father, was now too aged and rheumatic to help
them in their work, except by advising them when to start and where to go. But his advice was
always good, for in his time he had been one of the best fishermen on the coast, and the lads
were usually very successful.

On this particular day, however, their good luck seemed to have forsaken them, for, try as
they might, they could catch nothing worth mentioning. Possibly they were thinking too little
of their work, and too much of the reward offered by the Scientific Association; for three
thousand francs would have been quite a fortune to them both. Moreover, the idea of tracking
an under-ground river had a spice of romance and adventure about it which was the very thing
to tempt them.

The little stream of the Larve had long been the acknowledged puzzle of the whole neighborhood.
After skirting the town for some distance, it vanished into the earth through a narrow cleft,
and was seen no more. Where it went to after that, no one could tell; and, as we have seen,
the first attempt to find out had succeeded so badly that nobody felt much inclined for a second.

Tired out at length, the unsuccessful fishers went home, inwardly resolving to try whether
they might not have better fortune by night than by day. Pierre, indeed, when the night came,
began to have some doubts about the wisdom of the idea, having heard his father say once and
again that it was a very dangerous thing to attempt at that season. But the hardest thing in
the world for a boy to do is to draw back from anything simply because it is dangerous. Rather
than let Jack think him afraid, Pierre would have gone to sea on a hen-coop; so they stole
out of the cottage as noiselessly as possible, and away they went over the dim gray waste of
sea, half lighted by the rising moon.

The "take" of fish was a very good one this time, and the boys began to think their night voyage
a lucky idea; but they were rejoicing too soon. A little after midnight the sky began to cloud
over and the sea to rise in a way which showed that there was a storm brewing. They put about
at once, and made for the shore, but long before they reached it the storm burst upon them
in all its fury.

In an instant the boat was half full of water, and it was all they could do to keep her from
foundering outright, as they flew through the great white roaring waves, thumped and banged
about from side to side, and drenched to the skin at every plunge by the flying gusts of spray.
Pierre grasped the tiller in his half-numbed hands, while Jack held on with all his might to
the "sheet" that steadied their little three-cornered sail, at which the wind tugged as if
meaning to tear it away altogether.

The little craft held her own gallantly, and the young sailors began to hope that, after all,
they might make the entrance of the bay without accident. But just then an unlucky shift of
the wind tore the sail clean away, and the boat, falling off at once, was swept helplessly
toward the formidable cliffs beyond.

"Not much chance for us now," said Jack, shaking his head. "Pierre, my boy, I'm sorry I've
brought you into this mess; it's all my fault."

"Not a bit, old fellow. I ought to have warned you of what I'd heard my father say. However,
if the worst comes to the worst, we can swim for it."

However, there seemed to be little hope, for not a foot of standing-room was to be seen on
the rocky sides of the vast black precipice upon which they were driving headlong. All at once
Jack shouted:

"Port your helm, Pierre--port! We'll do it yet."

His keen eye had detected a cleft in the rock, just wide enough for the boat to enter.

Pierre had barely time to obey, when there came a tremendous crash, and the boys found themselves
floundering amid a welter of foam, nets, sand, dead fish, and broken timbers, in a deep dark
hollow that looked like the mouth of a cave.

"There goes father's boat," sputtered Pierre, as soon as he could clear his mouth of the salt-water.

"And there go our fish," added Jack. "Here's that loaf that we put in the locker, though; and
even wet bread's better than none, in a place like this. Now, then, let's be getting higher
up, for the tide will be upon us here in no time."

But to get higher up was no easy matter. They were in utter darkness, and (as they had already
found by groping about) on the brink of a chasm of unknown depth. The ledge upon which they
had been cast was evidently very narrow, and almost as slippery as ice; and Jack, being encumbered
with the loaf, and Pierre badly bruised against the rocks, they were not in the best condition
for climbing.

But the roar of the next wave as it came bursting in, splashing them from head to foot where
they sat, was a wonderful quickener to their movements, and away they scrambled through the
pitchy blackness, clinging like limpets to the rough side of the cavern as they felt their
feet slide upon the treacherous rocks, and thought of the unseen gulf below.

Onward, onward still, deeper and deeper into the heart of the cold, silent rock, fearing at
every moment to feel their way barred by a solid wall, and find themselves cut off from escape,
and doomed to be drowned by inches. But, no; the strange tunnel went on and on as if it would
never end, their only consolation being that they were unmistakably tending upward, and already
(as they calculated) beyond the reach of the flood-tide.

Suddenly Jack uttered a shout of joy:

"Hurrah, Pierre! here's one of the lantern candles in my inner pocket, and I know I've got
my matches somewhere. We'll be able to see where we are at last, my boy!"

The matches (luckily still dry) were produced, the candle was lighted, and our heroes took
a survey of their surroundings.

They were in a long narrow passage, rising to a considerable height overhead, and with another
ledge on its opposite side, steeper and more broken than the one on which they were. In the
centre lay the chasm already mentioned; but instead of the frightful depth which they had imagined,
it was only six or seven feet deep at the most, and more than half full of water.

"There's our terrible precipice," laughed Jack, stooping over it. "I don't think that would
hurt us much. But--holloa! I say, Pierre, this isn't sea-brine; it's fresh-water, running water!
It's a stream that's tunnelled its way through the rock; and if we follow it far enough, we'll
get out. Hurrah!"

"Hurrah!" echoed Pierre, brightening up. "We sha'n't run short of water, anyhow; and as for
food, we may as well have a bite of that loaf before starting again."

The under-ground breakfast was soon finished, and the adventurous lads started once more.

But the pain of Pierre's bruises, which he had manfully concealed hitherto, began to master
him at last. His tired limbs began to drag more and more heavily; his feet slipped again and
again, and only the strong hand of his comrade saved him from more than one serious fall.

"Better sit down and rest a bit, old fellow," said Jack, kindly; "there's no hurry, for this
candle will burn a long while yet. I know you won't own it, but you did get a nasty bump against
that rock yonder."

"I fancy you're right there," answered Pierre, sinking wearily upon the ledge. "But we don't
need the candle while we're sitting still, you know. Blow it out, and light it again when we
start."

Jack did so, and they sat silent in the darkness. All at once Pierre heard his comrade call out,

"I say, don't you hear water falling somewhere?"

"To be sure I do," replied Pierre, after listening a moment. "We must be close to the place
where this stream falls down into the tunnel, and now we'll have a chance of getting out at
last. Bravo!"

Jack slapped his hands together, with a shout that made the cavern echo.

"I've got an idea, Pierre, my boy! What a fool I was not to think of it before! This stream
that we've been following is the Larve, and we've got to the very place where it falls through
the cleft. Now if we can only get out with whole bones, it's fifteen hundred francs apiece
to us. Come along, quick!"

All Pierre's weariness was gone in a minute. Already, in his mind's eye, he saw his ailing
father comfortably provided for, and Jack and himself standing out to sea in a brand-new boat.
The instant the candle was lighted they were off again at a pace which would have seemed impossible
a few minutes before.

Guided by the increasing din of the water-fall, they were not long in reaching a huge perpendicular
funnel or chimney in the rock, down one side of which poured a stream of water, while through
a cleft above, dazzlingly radiant after the darkness of the buried passage, came a bright gleam
of sunshine. Just then a big stone, flung from above, came thundering down into the chasm,
falling close to the feet of the two explorers.

"That's the boys at their fun," said Jack, laughing. "I've done it many a time myself. Above
there--hoy!"

The only answer was a howl of terror and the sound of flying feet. Pierre, alarmed at the thought
of being deserted, shouted in his turn,

"Help, comrades! help!"

"Who's that calling?" asked a gruff voice from above, while the light was obscured by a broad
visage peering down into the hole.

"Holloa, Gaspard! is that you?" cried Pierre, recognizing the voice of one of his father's
fisher cronies.

"What, Pierre Lebon! you down there? Well, who ever saw the like? Just wait a minute, while
I run for a rope."

But before he could return there were already more than a hundred people gathered around the
hole, for the news of a human voice having been heard out of the "Larve Chimney," as the chasm
was called, had spread far and wide.

The water-fall on one side and the sharp rocks on the other made it no easy matter to draw
the boys up safely. But at length they were dragged forth into the daylight, to be embraced
and shouted over by the whole town, and to receive, a few days later, the praises of the entire
Scientific Association, together with the three thousand francs which they had so bravely earned.

BIDDY O'DOLAN.

BY MRS. ZADEL B. GUSTAFSON.

CHAPTER I.

Do you remember Biddy O'Dolan, the little rag-picker and ash girl who found Lily De Koven's
broken doll in the ash-can that cold winter's morning? I have not forgotten my promise to tell
you the rest about her.

Biddy had a boy-friend, a little Irish boy, who called himself "Chairlier-Shauzy." I suspect
his name was Charley O'Shaughnessy. He was just as poor and alone in the world as Biddy, and
almost always staid in the same cellar at night.

When Biddy ran off with her doll that cold morning, she not only thought of the hospital and
the little girl who had there brought her the flowers, but she thought how she would tell Charley
that night about her doll.

The first thing to be done was to get Dolly a dress, and this was the way Biddy managed it.
She took an old knife and hacked out a piece of her skirt, then she pulled out of her dingy
pocket a little wad. A wad of what? Pins. Pins that she had picked up on the street in the
summer, when she swept the street crossings, and had stuck thick and "criss-cross" in a bit
of woollen rag. With some of these pins Biddy fastened together the two sides of the cut in
her skirt. Next she took the piece of cloth she had cut out, and punched her tough little forefinger
through it in two places, and through one of these holes pushed the whole arm and through the
other the broken arm of her doll, and pinned the cloth together in the back.

Thus Dolly was dressed, and nearly as well as Biddy, too. Biddy had been very quick about this,
and had often looked over her shoulders to see who came in and out of the cellar.

You who do not live in a cellar, and do not get shoved about and slapped as Biddy did, can
hardly imagine how glad she was that no one happened to take notice of her.

She hid Dolly under the straw where she was to sleep at night, and then hurried out to pick
over as many more ash cans and barrels as she could, in hopes of finding something this time
which would please Mrs. Brown, so that she could dare to show her doll, and perhaps be allowed
to sit up and play with it a little.

Mrs. Brown was the cross old woman who kept the cellar, and the children on the street called
her "Grumpy."

Biddy did not find anything in particular, and got fewer pennies than usual for errands and
for showing people the way to places, so that old Mrs. Brown was very cross indeed, and Biddy
went to bed without daring to pull Dolly out where she could see her. She lay awake, with her
hand on it, waiting for Charley.

Charley was a newsboy, but he was not a lucky little boy. He had the large and beautiful deep
blue eyes you may often see in the children of Irish immigrants. But he was weak in body, and
very shy. He lived as Biddy did, among rough people, who were all the more rough because they
were so poor and miserable. So he got knocked about a great deal, and stood no chance at all
among other newsboys, who shoved him aside, and called their papers so loud that Charley's
thin voice could not be heard. Some newsboys make money selling papers--make so much that they
can start in other kinds of business for themselves, and get on very well in the world among
other successful men. I have seen this kind of newsboy. They have bright, sharp, old-looking
faces. They have wiry, strong bodies, good health, and seem to be afraid of nothing.

Charley wasn't this sort of boy at all. He got poked, and pushed, and cuffed, and tripped up,
and laughed at. The girls called him "fraid-cat," because they thought he was a coward. The
boys said he was just like a girl, and shouted, "Hallo, Polly!" when they saw him. Charley
did not say much to all this. He went with his papers every day, and managed to sell a few;
and, besides, he did errands quickly and well. In these ways he earned enough to pay for his
straw in Mrs. Brown's cellar, and to buy enough to eat to keep life in him.

Charley's straw was next to Biddy's straw, and when he came in that night Biddy whispered to
him all about her doll, telling him especially how one of its arms was broken off at the elbow.
Charley put out his hand in the dark, and asked her to let him take the doll a moment. He felt
it over carefully, and gave it back without saying anything. Biddy whispered a little more,
and then they went to sleep.

One day Biddy happened to come in a little after noon. She was going right out again; but first
she stooped, and felt under her straw--the doll was gone! Biddy sat down, quite faint for a
moment; then she sprang to her feet, darted up the cellar steps, and around the corner where
old Mrs. Brown sat behind her apple and candy stand. Biddy reached over and put both hands
in the knot of gray hair in the old woman's neck, pulling as if she would carry her off, stand
and all.

Biddy's face was pale, and her eyes were like white-hot coals, as she gasped out:

"Give it me! Give it me! I'll never leave go till ye give it me!"

"Howld an, an' lave go av me!" cried the old woman. She grasped Biddy's wrists, and drew them
toward her to ease the strain on her hair; but Biddy's little fingers were strong. She tugged
hard, and kept on gasping,

"I'll never, never leave go till ye give it me. Oh!"

Never had such an "Oh!" come from Biddy's lips before, and with the very sound of it she had
torn herself away from Mrs. Brown, and had seized and almost knocked over little Charley, who
had vainly been making signs at her as he came up behind Mrs. Brown.

Mrs. Brown rubbed her neck, smoothed down her apron, and jabbering fiercely, came panting up
to the children. Biddy had let go of Charley, and was sitting right down on the cold pavement
holding her doll, and looking with wild delight and wonder at its wooden arm, new from the
elbow. Charley knew an old man who used to whittle out all sorts of things with his jackknife,
and who seemed as ready to give away as to sell his work. Charley had taken Biddy's doll to
this man, who had willingly and quite skillfully mended it. He was on his way back to get it
hid under Biddy's straw for a surprise for her, when he found Biddy struggling with Mrs. Brown.
Charley's plan was perfect. The trouble was that he couldn't plan for Biddy too, and she had
spoiled everything without knowing it.

"How ever could ye git a new arm?" said Biddy. "It's a miracle."

"Be whisht wid yer mary-cles!" exclaimed old Mrs. Brown, snatching the doll, holding it high
out of reach, and spreading out her other hand to keep Biddy off.

But Biddy did not spring at her this time. She stood up, and put her hands together, and twisted
them till the knuckles were white, and she spoke as if there were cotton in her throat when
she begged the old woman to give her the doll. She promised never to be a bad girl any more;
to give every cent she could get to Mrs. Brown--every one; to do everything Mrs. Brown asked
her to do; and she called her over and over again "good lady," and "dear lady."

Mrs. Brown kept on talking too fast to be understood. She was very angry, and slapped Biddy's
cheeks, and pushed her toward the cellar. Biddy stumbled along as she was pushed, and kept
on praying for her doll, and making every promise she could think of to the old woman. When
they reached the cellar steps, Charley pulled Mrs. Brown's dress, showed her a bright new quarter
dollar, and said she might have it if she would give up the doll to Biddy.

Mrs. Brown took the quarter, looked at it, rang it on the step, and then handed the doll to
Biddy, telling her that she might have it that night, but that she must pay extra every day
for what she called the "craythur's boord an' lodgin'."

This idea seemed to please Mrs. Brown very much, for she called it a great joke, and put her
hands on her hips and laughed. Then she looked savage again, and said, she would keep the doll
herself on nights when Biddy could not pay extra. She went off to her fruit stand, with her
hands on her hips, laughing and muttering by turns. Biddy sat down with her doll. Now and then
she looked at Charley and smiled, and seemed to be thinking very hard about something.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

NEW YORK PRISONS IN 1776-77.

Those who tread the floor of what was recently the Post-office, once the great Middle Dutch
Church, and now a Brokers' Exchange, at the corner of Nassau Street and Cedar, can scarcely
believe that it was once a military prison, that its walls re-echoed the groans and cries of
sick and dying patriots, that a large part of Washington's army was once confined on the very
spot where now the broker is calling his stocks and the photographer fitting his lenses. The
fine church in 1776 was converted at once into a royal prison. Its pews were torn out, its
interior defaced, but the walls are the same that shut in the unfortunate Americans, and their
only shelter was the lofty roof that still rises among the haunts of trade. The ancient building
is one of the most touching of the historical remains of the early city. The number of persons
shut up at once within its precincts is variously estimated; one account gives 800, another
3000, as the probable limit. It is certain that they were crowded in with no care for comfort,
no regard for health or ease; that one aim of the royal captors was to "break their spirit"
by ill usage, and win them back to their loyalty by no gentle means.

As the motley train of prisoners came down to the city after the capture of Fort Washington,
they were met by the royal officers with every mark of contempt and hate. They were stripped
of their arms and uniforms, robbed of their money, insulted with rude taunts and even blows.
War had not yet been robbed of some of its brutality by the slow rise of knowledge, and the
British officers had not yet learned the politeness of freemen. A savage Hessian made his way
up to Graydon, the young American officer, and threatened to kill him. "Young man," said to
him a Scotch officer of more humanity, "you should never rebel against your king." The prisoners
were taken before the British provost-marshal to be examined. "What is your rank?" said the
officer to a sturdy little fellow from Connecticut, ragged and dirty, who seemed scarcely twenty.
"I am a keppen," said he, in a resolute tone; and the British officers, clad in scarlet and
gold, broke into shouts of laughter. It was not long before they were flying before the "keppens"
of New Jersey and New York, glad to escape from the rabble they despised.

]

When they had been examined, plundered, ridiculed, the unlucky prisoners were divided into
companies, and marched away to the different prisons of New York, that were for so many weary
months to be their homes or their graves. Those who were confined in the Middle Dutch Church
were probably the most fortunate of all; they had air and light; but two of the prisons are
covered with some of the saddest memories of the war for freedom. One of them was a common
jail in the Park, now the Hall of Records, and the other was the old Sugar-House in Liberty
Street, next to the Middle Dutch Church. The jail was so crowded with the captured Americans
that they had scarcely room to lie on the bare floor. The air was stifling, the rooms pestilential,
full of filth and fever.

]

