To judge from the manner in which they sang the chorus and cheered, it was quite evident that
most of the hands did agree.  When they left off, Grinder rose to reply on behalf of those
included in the toast. He said that it gave them much pleasure to be there and take part in
such pleasant proceedings and they were glad to think that they had been able to help to bring
it about.  It was very gratifying to see the good feeling that existed between Mr Rushton and
his workmen, which was as it should be, because masters and men was really fellow workers--the
masters did the brain work, the men the 'and work.  They was both workers, and their interests
was the same.  He liked to see men doing their best for their master and knowing that their
master was doing his best for them, that he was not only a master, but a friend.  That was
what he (Grinder) liked to see--master and men pulling together--doing their best, and realizing
that their interests was identical. (Cheers.)  If only all masters and men would do this they
would find that everything would go on all right, there would be more work and less poverty.
Let the men do their best for their masters, and the masters do their best for their men, and
they would find that that was the true solution of the social problem, and not the silly nonsense
that was talked by people what went about with red flags.  (Cheers and laughter.)  Most of
those fellows were chaps who was too lazy to work for their livin'.  (Hear, hear.)  They could
take it from him that, if ever the Socialists got the upper hand there would just be a few
of the hartful dodgers who would get all the cream, and there would be nothing left but 'ard
work for the rest. (Hear. hear.)  That's wot hall those hagitators was after: they wanted them
(his hearers) to work and keep 'em in idleness.  (Hear, hear.) On behalf of Mr Didlum, Mr Toonarf,
Mr Lettum and himself, he thanked them for their good wishes, and hoped to be with them on
a sim'ler occasion in the future.

Loud cheers greeted the termination of his speech, but it was obvious from some of the men's
faces that they resented Grinder's remarks. These men ridiculed Socialism and regularly voted
for the continuance of capitalism, and yet they were disgusted and angry with Grinder! There
was also a small number of Socialists--not more than half a dozen altogether--who did not join
in the applause.  These men were all sitting at the end of the long table presided over by
Payne.  None of them had joined in the applause that greeted the speeches, and so far neither
had they made any protest.  Some of them turned very red as they listened to the concluding
sentences of Grinder's oration, and others laughed, but none of them said anything.  They knew
before they came that there was sure to be a lot of 'Jolly good fellow' business and speechmaking,
and they had agreed together beforehand to take no part one way or the other, and to refrain
from openly dissenting from anything that might be said, but they had not anticipated anything
quite so strong as this.

When Grinder sat down some of those who had applauded him began to jeer at the Socialists.

'What have you got to say to that?' they shouted.  'That's up against yer!'

'They ain't got nothing to say now.'

'Why don't some of you get up and make a speech?'

This last appeared to be a very good idea to those Liberals and Tories who had not liked Grinder's
observations, so they all began to shout 'Owen!' 'Owen!' 'Come on 'ere.  Get up and make a
speech!' 'Be a man!' and so on.  Several of those who had been loudest in applauding Grinder
also joined in the demand that Owen should make a speech, because they were certain that Grinder
and the other gentlemen would be able to dispose of all his arguments; but Owen and the other
Socialists made no response except to laugh, so presently Crass tied a white handkerchief on
a cane walking-stick that belonged to Mr Didlum, and stuck it in the vase of flowers that stood
on the end of the table where the Socialist group were sitting.

When the noise had in some measure ceased, Grinder again rose.  'When I made the few remarks
that I did, I didn't know as there was any Socialists 'ere: I could tell from the look of you
that most of you had more sense.  At the same time I'm rather glad I said what I did, because
it just shows you what sort of chaps these Socialists are. They're pretty artful--they know
when to talk and when to keep their mouths shut.  What they like is to get hold of a few ignorant
workin' men in a workshop or a public house, and then they can talk by the mile--reg'ler shop
lawyers, you know wot I mean--I'm right and everybody else is wrong.  (Laughter.)  You know
the sort of thing I mean.  When they finds theirselves in the company of edicated people wot
knows a little more than they does theirselves, and who isn't likely to be misled by a lot
of claptrap, why then, mum's the word. So next time you hears any of these shop lawyers' arguments,
you'll know how much it's worth.'

Most of the men were delighted with this speech, which was received with much laughing and
knocking on the tables.  They remarked to each other that Grinder was a smart man: he'd got
the Socialists weighed up just about right--to an ounce.

Then, it was seen that Barrington was on his feet facing Grinder and a sudden, awe-filled silence
fell.

'It may or may not be true,' began Barrington, 'that Socialists always know when to speak and
when to keep silent, but the present occasion hardly seemed a suitable one to discuss such
subjects.

'We are here today as friends and want to forget our differences and enjoy ourselves for a
few hours.  But after what Mr Grinder has said I am quite ready to reply to him to the best
of my ability.

'The fact that I am a Socialist and that I am here today as one of Mr Rushton's employees should
be an answer to the charge that Socialists are too lazy to work for their living.  And as to
taking advantage of the ignorance and simplicity of working men and trying to mislead them
with nonsensical claptrap, it would have been more to the point if Mr Grinder had taken some
particular Socialist doctrine and had proved it to be untrue or misleading, instead of adopting
the cowardly method of making vague general charges that he cannot substantiate.  He would
find it far more difficult to do that than it would be for a Socialist to show that most of
what Mr Grinder himself has been telling us is nonsensical claptrap of the most misleading
kind.  He tells us that the employers work with their brains and the men with their hands.
If it is true that no brains are required to do manual labour, why put idiots into imbecile
asylums?  Why not let them do some of the hand work for which no brains are required?  As they
are idiots, they would probably be willing to work for even less than the ideal "living wage".
If Mr Grinder had ever tried, he would know that manual workers have to concentrate their minds
and their attention on their work or they would not be able to do it at all.  His talk about
employers being not only the masters but the "friends" of their workmen is also mere claptrap
because he knows as well as we do, that no matter how good or benevolent an employer may be,
no matter how much he might desire to give his men good conditions, it is impossible for him
to do so, because he has to compete against other employers who do not do that. It is the bad
employer--the sweating, slave-driving employer--who sets the pace and the others have to adopt
the same methods--very often against their inclinations--or they would not be able to compete
with him.  If any employer today were to resolve to pay his workmen not less wages than he
would be able to live upon in comfort himself, that he would not require them to do more work
in a day than he himself would like to perform every day of his own life, Mr Grinder knows
as well as we do that such an employer would be bankrupt in a month; because he would not be
able to get any work except by taking it at the same price as the sweaters and the slave-drivers.

'He also tells us that the interests of masters and men are identical; but if an employer has
a contract, it is to his interest to get the work done as soon as possible; the sooner it is
done the more profit he will make; but the more quickly it is done, the sooner will the men
be out of employment.  How then can it be true that their interests are identical?

'Again, let us suppose that an employer is, say, thirty years of age when he commences business,
and that he carries it on for twenty years. Let us assume that he employs forty men more or
less regularly during that period and that the average age of these men is also thirty years
at the time the employer commences business.  At the end of the twenty years it usually happens
that the employer has made enough money to enable him to live for the remainder of his life
in ease and comfort. But what about the workman?  All through those twenty years they have
earned but a bare living wage and have had to endure such privations that those who are not
already dead are broken in health.

'In the case of the employer there had been twenty years of steady progress towards ease and
leisure and independence.  In the case of the majority of the men there were twenty years of
deterioration, twenty years of steady, continuous and hopeless progress towards physical and
mental inefficiency: towards the scrap-heap, the work-house, and premature death.  What is
it but false, misleading, nonsensical claptrap to say that their interests were identical with
those of their employer?

'Such talk as that is not likely to deceive any but children or fools. We are not children,
but it is very evident that Mr Grinder thinks that we are fools.

'Occasionally it happens, through one or more of a hundred different circumstances over which
he has no control, or through some error of judgement, that after many years of laborious mental
work an employer is overtaken by misfortune, and finds himself no better and even worse off
than when he started; but these are exceptional cases, and even if he becomes absolutely bankrupt
he is no worse off than the majority of the workmen.

'At the same time it is quite true that the real interests of employers and workmen are the
same, but not in the sense that Mr Grinder would have us believe.  Under the existing system
of society but a very few people, no matter how well off they may be, can be certain that they
or their children will not eventually come to want; and even those who think they are secure
themselves, find their happiness diminished by the knowledge of the poverty and misery that
surrounds them on every side.

'In that sense only is it true that the interests of masters and men are identical, for it
is to the interest of all, both rich and poor, to help to destroy a system that inflicts suffering
upon the many and allows true happiness to none.  It is to the interest of all to try and find
a better way.'

Here Crass jumped up and interrupted, shouting out that they hadn't come there to listen to
a lot of speechmaking--a remark that was greeted with unbounded applause by most of those present.
Loud cries of 'Hear, hear!' resounded through the room, and the Semi-drunk suggested that someone
should sing a song.

The men who had clamoured for a speech from Owen said nothing, and Mr Grinder, who had been
feeling rather uncomfortable, was secretly very glad of the interruption.

The Semi-drunk's suggestion that someone should sing a song was received with unqualified approbation
by everybody, including Barrington and the other Socialists, who desired nothing better than
that the time should be passed in a manner suitable to the occasion. The landlord's daughter,
a rosy girl of about twenty years of age, in a pink print dress, sat down at the piano, and
the Semi-drunk, taking his place at the side of the instrument and facing the audience, sang
the first song with appropriate gestures, the chorus being rendered enthusiastically by the
full strength of the company, including Misery, who by this time was slightly drunk from drinking
gin and ginger beer:

        'Come, come, come an' 'ave a drink with me
        Down by the ole Bull and Bush.
        Come, come, come an' shake 'ands with me
        Down by the ole Bull and Bush.
        Wot cheer me little Germin band!
        Fol the diddle di do!
        Come an' take 'old of me 'and
        Come, come, come an' 'ave a drink with me,
        Down by the old Bull and Bush,
        Bush! Bush!'

Protracted knocking on the tables greeted the end of the song, but as the Semi-drunk knew no
other except odd verses and choruses, he called upon Crass for the next, and that gentleman
accordingly sang 'Work, Boys, Work' to the tune of 'Tramp, tramp, tramp, the boys are marching'.
As this song is the Marseillaise of the Tariff Reform Party, voicing as it does the highest
ideals of the Tory workmen of this country, it was an unqualified success, for most of them
were Conservatives.

        'Now I'm not a wealthy man,
        But I lives upon a plan
        Wot will render me as 'appy as a King;
        An' if you will allow, I'll sing it to you now,
        For time you know is always on the wing.

        Work, boys, work and be contented
        So long as you've enough to buy a meal.

As they sang the words of this noble chorus the Tories seemed to become inspired with lofty
enthusiasm.  It is of course impossible to say for certain, but probably as they sang there
arose before their exalted imaginations, a vision of the Past, and looking down the long vista
of the years that were gone, they saw that from their childhood they had been years of poverty
and joyless toil.  They saw their fathers and mothers, weaned and broken with privation and
excessive labour, sinking unhonoured into the welcome oblivion of the grave.

And then, as a change came over the spirit of their dream, they saw the Future, with their
own children travelling along the same weary road to the same kind of goal.

It is possible that visions of this character were conjured up in their minds by the singing,
for the words of the song gave expression to their ideal of what human life should be.  That
was all they wanted--to be allowed to work like brutes for the benefit of other people. They
did not want to be civilized themselves and they intended to take good care that the children
they had brought into the world should never enjoy the benefits of civilization either.  As
they often said:

'Who and what are our children that they shouldn't be made to work for their betters?  They're
not Gentry's children, are they?  The good things of life was never meant for the likes of
them.  Let 'em work! That's wot the likes of them was made for, and if we can only get Tariff
Reform for 'em they will always be sure of plenty of it--not only Full Time, but Overtime!
As for edication, travellin' in furrin' parts, an' enjoying life an' all sich things as that,
they was never meant for the likes of our children--they're meant for Gentry's children!  Our
children is only like so much dirt compared with Gentry's children!  That's wot the likes of
us is made for--to Work for Gentry, so as they can 'ave plenty of time to enjoy theirselves;
and the Gentry is made to 'ave a good time so as the likes of us can 'ave Plenty of Work.'

There were several more verses, and by the time they had sung them all, the Tories were in
a state of wild enthusiasm.  Even Ned Dawson, who had fallen asleep with his head pillowed
on his arms on the table, roused himself up at the end of each verse, and after having joined
in the chorus, went to sleep again.

At the end of the song they gave three cheers for Tariff Reform and Plenty of Work, and then
Crass, who, as the singer of the last song, had the right to call upon the next man, nominated
Philpot, who received an ovation when he stood up, for he was a general favourite. He never
did no harm to nobody, and he was always wiling to do anyone a good turn whenever he had the
opportunity.  Shouts of 'Good old Joe' resounded through the room as he crossed over to the
piano, and in response to numerous requests for 'The old song' he began to sing 'The Flower Show':

        'Whilst walkin' out the other night, not knowing where to go
        I saw a bill upon a wall about a Flower Show.

        So I thought the flowers I'd go and see to pass away the night.
        And when I got into that Show it was a curious sight.
        So with your kind intention and a little of your aid,
        Tonight some flowers I'll mention which I hope will never fade.'

        Omnes:
        To-night some flowers I'll mention which I hope will never fade.'

There were several more verses, from which it appeared that the principal flowers in the Show
were the Rose, the Thistle and the Shamrock.

When he had finished, the applause was so deafening and the demands for an encore so persistent
that to satisfy them he sang another old favourite--'Won't you buy my pretty flowers?'

        'Ever coming, ever going,
        Men and women hurry by,
        Heedless of the tear-drops gleaming,
        In her sad and wistful eye
        How her little heart is sighing
        Thro' the cold and dreary hours,
        Only listen to her crying,
        "Won't you buy my pretty flowers?"'

When the last verse of this sang had been sung five er six times, Philpot exercised his right
of nominating the next singer, and called upon Dick Wantley, who with many suggestive gestures
and grimaces sang 'Put me amongst the girls', and afterwards called upon Payne, the foreman
carpenter, who gave 'I'm the Marquis of Camberwell Green'.

There was a lot of what music-hall artists call 'business' attached to his song, and as he
proceeded, Payne, who was ghastly pale and very nervous, went through a lot of galvanic motions
and gestures, bowing and scraping and sliding about and flourishing his handkerchief in imitation
of the courtly graces of the Marquis.  During this performance the audience maintained an appalling
silence, which so embarrassed Payne that before he was half-way through the song he had to
stop because he could not remember the rest.  However, to make up for this failure he sang
another called 'We all must die, like the fire in the grate'.  This also was received in a
very lukewarm manner by the crowd, same of whom laughed and others suggested that if he couldn't
sing any better than that, the sooner HE was dead the better.

This was followed by another Tory ballad, the chorus being as follows:

        His clothes may be ragged, his hands may be soiled.
        But where's the disgrace if for bread he has toiled.
        His 'art is in the right place, deny it no one can
        The backbone of Old England is the honest workin' man.'

After a few more songs it was decided to adjourn to a field at the rear of the tavern to have
a game of cricket.  Sides were formed, Rushton, Didlum, Grinder, and the other gentlemen taking
part just as if they were only common people, and while the game was in progress the rest played
ring quoits or reclined on the grass watching the players, whilst the remainder amused themselves
drinking beer and playing cards and shove-ha'penny in the bar parlour, or taking walks around
the village sampling the beer at the other pubs, of which there were three.

The time passed in this manner until seven o'clock, the hour at which it had been arranged
to start on the return journey; but about a quarter of an hour before they set out an unpleasant
incident occurred.

During the time that they were playing cricket a party of glee singers, consisting of four
young girls and five men, three of whom were young fellows, the other two being rather elderly,
possibly the fathers of some of the younger members of the party, came into the field and sang
several part songs for their entertainment.  Towards the close of the game most of the men
had assembled in this field, and during a pause in the singing the musicians sent one of their
number, a shy girl about eighteen years of age--who seemed as if she would rather that someone
else had the task--amongst the crowd to make a collection.  The girl was very nervous and blushed
as she murmured her request, and held out a straw hat that evidently belonged to one of the
male members of the glee party.  A few of the men gave pennies, some refused or pretended not
to see either the girl or the hat, others offered to give her some money for a kiss, but what
caused the trouble was that two or three of those who had been drinking more than was good
for them dropped the still burning ends of their cigars, all wet with saliva as they were,
into the hat and Dick Wantley spit into it.

The girl hastily returned to her companions, and as she went some of the men who had witnessed
the behaviour of those who had insulted her, advised them to make themselves scarce, as they
stood a good chance of getting a thrashing from the girl's friends.  They said it would serve
them dam' well right if they did get a hammering.

Partly sobered by fear, the three culprits sneaked off and hid themselves, pale and trembling
with terror, under the box seats of the three brakes.  They had scarcely left when the men
of the glee party came running up, furiously demanding to see those who had insulted the girl.
As they could get no satisfactory answer, one of their number ran back and presently returned,
bringing the girl with him, the other young women following a little way behind.

She said she could not see the men they were looking for, so they went down to the public house
to see if they could find them there, some of the Rushton's men accompanying them and protesting
their indignation.

The time passed quickly enough and by half past seven the brakes were loaded up again and a
start made for the return journey.

They called at all the taverns on the road, and by the time they reached the Blue Lion half
of them were three sheets in the wind, and five or six were very drunk, including the driver
of Crass's brake and the man with the bugle.  The latter was so far gone that they had to let
him lie down in the bottom of the carriage amongst their feet, where he fell asleep, while
the others amused themselves by blowing weird shrieks out of the horn.

There was an automatic penny-in-the-slot piano at the Blue Lion and as that was the last house
of the road they made a rather long stop there, playing hooks and rings, shove-ha'penny, drinking,
singing, dancing and finally quarrelling.

Several of them seemed disposed to quarrel with Newman.  All sorts of offensive remarks were
made at him in his hearing.  Once someone ostentatiously knocked his glass of lemonade over,
and a little later someone else collided violently with him just as he was in the act of drinking,
causing his lemonade to spill all over his clothes.  The worst of it was that most of these
rowdy ones were his fellow passengers in Crass's brake, and there was not much chance of getting
a seat in either of the other carriages, for they were overcrowded already.

From the remarks he overheard from time to time, Newman guessed the reason of their hostility,
and as their manner towards him grew more menacing, he became so nervous that he began to think
of quietly sneaking off and walking the remainder of the way home by himself, unless he could
get somebody in one of the other brakes to change seats with him.

Whilst these thoughts were agitating his mind, Dick Wantley suddenly shouted out that he was
going to go for the dirty tyke who had offered to work under price last winter.

It was his fault that they were all working for sixpence halfpenny and he was going to wipe
the floor with him.  Some of his friends eagerly offered to assist, but others interposed,
and for a time it looked as if there was going to be a free fight, the aggressors struggling
hard to get at their inoffensive victim.

Eventually, however, Newman found a seat in Misery's brake, squatting on the floor with his
back to the horses, thankful enough to be out of reach of the drunken savages, who were now
roaring out ribald songs and startling the countryside, as they drove along, with unearthly
blasts on the coach horn.

Meantime, although none of them seemed to notice it, the brake was travelling at a furious
rate, and swaying about from side to side in a very erratic manner.  It would have been the
last carriage, but things had got a bit mixed at the Blue Lion and, instead of bringing up
the rear of the procession, it was now second, just behind the small vehicle containing Rushton
and his friends.

Crass several times reminded them that the other carriage was so near that Rushton must be
able to hear every word that was said, and these repeated admonitions at length enraged the
Semi-drunk, who shouted out that they didn't care a b--r if he could hear.  Who the bloody
hell was he?  To hell with him!

'Damn Rushton, and you too!' cried Bill Bates, addressing Crass. 'You're only a dirty toe-rag!
That's all you are--a bloody rotter! That's the only reason you gets put in charge of jobs--'cos
you're a good nigger-driver!  You're a bloody sight worse than Rushton or Misery either!  Who
was it started the one-man, one-room dodge, eh? Why, you, yer bleeder!'

'Knock 'im orf 'is bleedin' perch,' suggested Bundy.

Everybody seemed to think this was a very good idea, but when the Semi-drunk attempted to rise
for the purpose of carrying it out, he was thrown down by a sudden lurch of the carriage on
the top of the prostrate figure of the bugle man and by the time the others had assisted him
back to his seat they had forgotten all about their plan of getting rid of Crass.

Meantime the speed of the vehicle had increased to a fearful rate.

Rushton and the other occupants of the little wagonette in front had been for some time shouting
to them to moderate the pace of their horses, but as the driver of Crass's brake was too drunk
to understand what they said he took no notice, and they had no alternative but to increase
their own speed to avoid being run down.  The drunken driver now began to imagine that they
were trying to race him, and became fired with the determination to pass them.  It was a very
narrow road, but there was just about room to do it, and he had sufficient confidence in his
own skill with the ribbons to believe that he could get past in safety.

The terrified gesticulations and the shouts of Rushton's party only served to infuriate him,
because he imagined that they were jeering at him for not being able to overtake them.  He
stood up on the footboard and lashed the horses till they almost flew over the ground, while
the carriage swayed and skidded in a fearful manner.

In front, the horses of Rushton's conveyance were also galloping at top speed, the vehicle
bounding and reeling from one side of the road to the other, whilst its terrified occupants,
whose faces were blanched with apprehension, sat clinging to their seats and to each other,
their eyes projecting from the sockets as they gazed back with terror at their pursuers, some
of whom were encouraging the drunken driver with promises of quarts of beer, and urging on
the homes with curses and yells.

Crass's fat face was pallid with fear as he clung trembling to his seat.  Another man, very
drunk and oblivious of everything, was leaning over the side of the brake, spewing into the
road, while the remainder, taking no interest in the race, amused themselves by singing--conducted
by the Semi-drunk--as loud as they could roar:

        'Has anyone seen a Germin band,
        Germin Band, Germin Band?
        I've been lookin' about,
        Pom--Pom, Pom, Pom, Pom!

        'I've searched every pub, both near and far,
        Near and far, near and far,
        I want my Fritz,
        What plays tiddley bits
        On the big trombone!'

The other two brakes had fallen far behind.  The one presided over by Hunter contained a mournful
crew.  Nimrod himself, from the effects of numerous drinks of ginger beer with secret dashes
of gin in it, had become at length crying drunk, and sat weeping in gloomy silence beside the
driver, a picture of lachrymose misery and but dimly conscious of his surroundings, and Slyme,
who rode with Hunter because he was a fellow member of the Shining Light Chapel.  Then there
was another paperhanger--an unhappy wretch who was afflicted with religious mania; he had brought
a lot of tracts with him which he had distributed to the other men, to the villagers of Tubberton
and to anybody else who would take them.

Most of the other men who rode in Nimrod's brake were of the 'religious' working man type.
Ignorant, shallow-pated dolts, without as much intellectuality as an average cat.  Attendants
at various PSAs and 'Church Mission Halls' who went every Sunday afternoon to be lectured on
their duty to their betters and to have their minds--save the mark!--addled and stultified
by such persons as Rushton, Sweater, Didlum and Grinder, not to mention such mental specialists
as the holy reverend Belchers and Boshers, and such persons as John Starr.

At these meetings none of the 'respectable' working men were allowed to ask any questions,
or to object to, or find fault with anything that was said, or to argue, or discuss, or criticize.
They had to sit there like a lot of children while they were lectured and preached at and patronized.
Even as sheep before their shearers are dumb, so they were not permitted to open their mouths.
For that matter they did not wish to be allowed to ask any questions, or to discuss anything.
They would not have been able to.  They sat there and listened to what was said, but they had
but a very hazy conception of what it was all about.

Most of them belonged to these PSAs merely for the sake of the loaves and fishes.  Every now
and then they were awarded prizes--Self-help by Smiles, and other books suitable for perusal
by persons suffering from almost complete obliteration of the mental faculties.  Besides other
benefits there was usually a Christmas Club attached to the 'PSA' or 'Mission' and the things
were sold to the members slightly below cost as a reward for their servility.

