Soon after her exciting chase the Constitution sailed from Boston in search of the British
frigate Guerrière, whose Captain (Dacres) had boastfully enjoined the Americans to remember
that she was not the Little Belt. On the 19th of August, 1812, the Constitution fell in with
her, and Hull skillfully managed to lay his vessel alongside the British frigate, to have a
battle at close quarters. The Guerrière opened fire at once; the Constitution kept silent for
a while. As the shot from the English frigate began to make havoc on the Constitution, Hull's
second in command (Lieutenant Morris) asked permission to open fire. "Not yet," quietly said
Hull. The request was soon repeated. "Not yet," was the calm reply. A moment afterward, Hull,
filled with intense excitement, shouted, "Now, boys, pour it into them!"

This command was obeyed with terrible effect. The guns of the Constitution were double-shotted
and did fearful work. The frigates were only half-pistol-shot distance from each other. The
excitement on both sides was intense. "Hull her! hull her!" shouted Lieutenant Morris. "Hull
her! hull her!" shouted the crew in response, for they instantly comprehended the pun. Very
soon the Guerrière was a shivered, shorn, and helpless wreck, rolling like a log in the trough
of the sea. Hull sent an officer on board to inquire of Dacres whether he had struck his flag.
Looking up and down, Dacres coolly replied, "Well, I don't know: our mizzenmast is gone, our
mainmast is gone, and, upon the whole, you may say we have struck our flag."

This victory greatly inspirited the Americans, and astonished the English. Hull was highly
honored by the citizens and Congress, from which he received valuable tokens of regard. The
London Times said, "The new enemy, unaccustomed to such triumphs, is likely to be rendered
insolent and confident by them."

At mid-autumn, 1812, Captain Jacob Jones, in the fast-sailing sloop of war Wasp, achieved a
notable victory over the British war schooner Frolic, convoying six merchantmen, four of which
were well armed. They fought at close quarters, under very little sail, and soon became entangled,
when the crew of the Wasp made their way to the deck of the Frolic just after it was swept
by a raking broadside. They found no one to oppose them. A few surviving officers stood on
the quarter-deck, most of them wounded. Lieutenant Biddle, who led the boarding party, hauled
down the British flag. When the vessels separated both masts of the Frolic, with the tattered
rigging, fell upon the deck, which was covered with the dead. Two hours after the victory the
British ship of war Poictiers appeared, and captured the crippled Wasp with the more crippled
Frolic. Nevertheless, the news of the victory was received with great joy in the United States,
and Jones was the recipient of many honors.

Precisely a month after this victory a more important one was achieved by Decatur with the
frigate United States. On October 26, near the island of Madeira, he gave chase to a British
vessel of war, and overtook her. An action was immediately begun at long range, but soon afterward
they engaged at close quarters. When the battle had lasted half an hour, the shot of the United
States carried away her antagonist's mizzenmast. Then her main and foretop masts fell, and
she was dreadfully bruised in her hull. The United States was yet unhurt. Perceiving longer
resistance to be vain, the British commander struck his colors and surrendered.

"What is the name of your ship?" shouted Decatur.

"His Majesty's frigate Macedonian," replied her commander.

This victory produced a profound sensation in England and the United States. In the former
it created astonishment and gloomy forebodings, for it appeared as if the Republic of the West
was about to snatch the sceptre from the acknowledged "Mistress of the Seas," and that they
might no longer sing, as they had for a century,

  "Rule, Britannia! Britannia rules the waves."

Hull generously retired from the Constitution, after his victory, to give some brother officer
a chance to win fame on the "lucky" vessel. Bainbridge succeeded him in command, and was put
in charge of a small squadron. With the Constitution and Hornet he sailed from Boston late
in October, 1812, and at the close of December encountered the British frigate Java off the
coast of South America, not far from Bahia. They had a most desperate battle, which lasted
about two hours, when the Java, which had lost her three masts and her bowsprit in the fight,
and was leaking badly, was surrendered to Bainbridge. She was one of the finest frigates in
the Royal Navy, and was conveying the Governor-General of Bombay and his staff, with more than
a hundred officers and soldiers, to the East Indies. Like Hull, Jones, and Decatur, Bainbridge
received unstinted honors from his countrymen.

The hulk of the Java was not worth saving; and after transferring the passengers and surviving
crew to the Constitution, she was fired and blown up. From that time the Constitution was called
"Old Ironsides."

This fourth brilliant naval victory in the course of a few months caused much exultation in
the United States. Meanwhile there had been minor victories, and some defeats. Privateers were
numerous, and very active. During six months the American public and private cruisers had captured
about three hundred prizes from the British. These successes dispelled the gloom occasioned
by misfortunes to the land forces; the friends of the navy were justified and strengthened,
and thenceforward no one ventured to speak in disparagement of it. Congress, perceiving the
necessity of an increase in the force of the navy, authorized the President to have four 74-gun
ships, six frigates, and six sloops of war built.

Bainbridge had left the Hornet, Captain Lawrence, blockading the harbor of Bahia, in which
was sheltered a British treasure ship. A British 74 came up from the Brazilian capital, and
drove the Hornet into the harbor. She escaped under cover of darkness, and on the 24th of February,
1813, fell in with, fought, and vanquished the British brig of war Peacock. The brig had borne
down upon the Hornet, and as they passed each other each delivered a broadside. Then, by a
quick movement, the Hornet closed upon the Peacock, and poured round-shot into her for about
fifteen minutes. The Peacock struck her colors, and at the same time raised a signal of distress.
Her mainmast soon fell overboard, and she was in a sinking condition. The removal of the wounded
to the Hornet was at once begun. At twilight she went down, carrying with her thirteen of her
own crew and several of those of the Hornet. Nine of the former and three of the latter were
drowned. The Hornet had only one man killed in the engagement; she lost more in trying to save
her enemies than in conquering them.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

BY R. K. MUNKITTRICK.

  A quagga stood under a palm
  In evening's violet calm.
    When a lion passed by,
    With a hungerful eye,
  The quagga ran off in alarm.

ADRIFT.

BY MRS. M. E. SANGSTER.

  Adrift upon a silver tide,
  With banks of green on either side,
  And, far above, a smiling sky,
  A tiny craft goes floating by.

  Queer little boat, this woven nest,
  Where birdies three had tranquil rest
  Until a rough wind shook the tree,
  And sent them sailing off to sea.

  Oh, father-bird and mother-bird,
  In you what trouble will be stirred
  When, home returned from weary flight,
  You learn your babies' hapless plight!

HYGROMETERS, AND HOW TO MAKE THEM

Do not let any one who sees this somewhat out-of-the-way name imagine it is anything very dreadful.
It is merely that of an instrument for measuring the moisture in the atmosphere.

Nearly every boy and girl has seen the chalet-like "weather-house," where one might suppose
the clerk of the unreliable elements to reside, and which is certainly tenanted by a gay old
lady, who comes out when the sun shines, and a military gentleman, who, disregarding catarrh,
parades in front of the cottage whenever there is a rain-cloud in the sky. In this case the
figures are held on a kind of lever sustained by catgut: this, being very sensitive to moisture,
twists and shortens on damp days, and untwists and lengthens as the air becomes dry and light.

A simple hygrometer can be made by a piece of catgut and a straw. The catgut, twisted, is put
through a hole in a dial, in which a straw is also placed. In dry weather the catgut curls
up; in damp, it relaxes; and so the straw is turned either to the one side or the other. Straws
do something more than "show which way the wind blows," you see.

Another simple weather-gauge may be made by stretching whip-cord or catgut over five pulleys.
To the lower end of the string a small weight is attached, and this rises and falls by the
side of a graduated scale as the moisture or dryness of the air shortens or lengthens the string.

Again, whip-cord, well-dried, may be hung against a wainscot, a small plummet affixed to it,
and a line drawn at the precise spot it falls to. The plummet will be found to rise before
rain, and fall when the prospect brightens.

Another device is to take a clean, unpainted strip of pine--say, twenty inches long, one wide,
and a quarter of an inch thick--cut across the grain; then have a piece of cedar of the same
size, but cut along the grain. Let these be glued together and set upright in a stand.

Before a rain-fall the pores of the pine will absorb moisture, and swell until the whole forms
a bow; this will gradually straighten on the approach of fine weather.

There are two forms in which a balance is used that are interesting from the natural laws that
govern their motions. In one a dry sponge that has been saturated in salt and water is nicely
balanced against a small weight at the opposite end. The sponge becomes heavier or lighter
according to the presence or absence of moisture, and any variation in this respect may be
noted on the gauge above, to which the index finger on a dial points.

The simplest plan of all, and as good as any, is to place in an accurate pair of scales on
one side a one-pound weight; on the other, one pound of well-dried salt. This swells and grows
heavier on the approach of rain; when brighter skies return, the one-pound weight asserts itself
once more.

So many of our correspondents are collecting birds' eggs and nests that we wish to call their
attention to some important points. Never take all the eggs in a nest, because if you do you
will leave the poor mother bird very desolate. You can always take some from each nest, and
still leave enough to make a pretty little brood of young birdlings. In some nests you will
find eight or ten eggs, and then you may take three or four. But if there are but three eggs,
you must take only one. Always be sure to leave more than half. Be careful to gather them before
the mother bird begins to set, because when her brooding-time has begun she is very jealous
of her nest, and is easily frightened away; and then if the eggs have begun to harden and form
young birds, they are useless to you, for you can not blow them, and they will soon change
color and become worthless.

Never take a nest until the mother has flown away with her little ones and left it empty; for
to disturb the pretty home the bird has built with so much care for her babies is a wanton
cruelty we trust no reader of YOUNG PEOPLE would be guilty of.

       *       *       *       *       *

  MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA.

     I like YOUNG PEOPLE ever so much. I always read the letters in Our
     Post-office Box the first thing--they seem so sociable, as if all
     the children knew each other well. I enjoy "The Moral Pirates" and
     the Information Cards. My home is in San Francisco, but at present
     I am visiting in Monterey, a small town on the coast. Monterey is
     the oldest town in California. It was first settled by the
     Spanish, and the greater part of the inhabitants now are
     Spaniards. On a little knoll near the beach, and within a
     stone's-throw of the water's edge, there is a large wooden cross;
     it is the spot where the Spanish fathers first landed, and the
     date on the cross is June 3, 1770.

     I think this is the queerest old town imaginable. Almost all the
     houses are "adobe" houses, that is, made of a kind of black mud,
     then whitewashed, and they have tiled roofs. And around the
     gardens are high adobe walls. Nearly all of these adobe houses are
     fifty years old, and some of them are said to have been built one
     hundred years ago. I am gathering some abalone and other kinds of
     shells, and some fine sea-mosses, and when I get home I expect to
     make lots of pretty things. I love to play on the beach, and pick
     up pretty little things, and run out after the waves, then turn
     and let them chase me back; sometimes they catch me, and give my
     feet a good soaking; but I don't care, for I like it, only I look
     like a fright by the time I get back to the hotel.

     I have been sailing on the Pacific Ocean, and was not a bit
     seasick, but I was never on the Atlantic. I wish some of the
     readers of YOUNG PEOPLE that live on the Atlantic coast would tell
     me if they find pretty shells, and if they get abalone shells and
     sea-moss on the Atlantic coast as we do here on this coast.

  IDA B. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

  RUSSELL, KANSAS.

     When I read the good stories about little folks which come every
     week in YOUNG PEOPLE, it makes me want to tell all the little
     friends about something that happened last summer while we were
     living in Denver, near the Rocky Mountains. One day mamma put some
     lunch in a pail, and said brother Lolie and I could go up on the
     bluffs along the Platte River to gather wild flowers and cactus
     plants, and have a good day's sport. When the whistles at the
     workshops in the city blew for noon, we sat down on the bluffs to
     eat our dinner. We could see over to the big high mountains, which
     reached almost up to the clouds. They looked as though they were
     only a mile or two away, though papa told us afterward that they
     were nearly fourteen miles off; but the air is so clear that it
     made them look much nearer. It seemed as if we could go over to
     them and back before night. We put our shoes and stockings under a
     pile of railroad ties, and started up the track toward Morrison,
     which is at the foot of the mountains. As often as we got tired we
     stopped to rest and talk about what we could do when we were men.
     Brother was almost ten years old, and I was eleven. The sun went
     down out of sight behind the mountain-tops, which were covered
     with ice and snow, and as it grew dark we walked faster, and when
     it got so dark we could hardly see only to follow the track, we
     were in the middle of a large prairie. We began to think of snakes
     and wolves and bears, which we had heard were in such places, so
     we did not stop any more to rest. We finally saw a light away off
     in a field, and we went toward it as fast as ever we could. When
     we got to the house, it was after eleven o'clock, and we were very
     tired and hungry. Grandma says if I tell all about our journey the
     next day--how we got to the mountains and home again, and how
     frightened mamma and papa and little sister were about us--your
     waste basket would not hold it all; so good-by.

  From your little reader,
  ARTIE R. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

  VERGENNES, VERMONT.

     My home is in Madison, Wisconsin, but I am visiting my grandmother
     in Vermont, near Lake Champlain. Next week we are going to the
     mountains for a ride, and to enjoy the grand view.

     The Reform School is located here. It is for boys and girls. They
     are well taken care of, but I'd rather be a good girl than a
     reform girl.

     My mamma and I are going back to Wisconsin in September. I shall
     be very glad to see my little cousin Harry and my dog Gip.

     I like YOUNG PEOPLE very much, and all the boys and girls that
     write letters for Our Post-office Box. I am seven years old. My
     name is Helen, but they call me

  PUSSY K.

       *       *       *       *       *

  NYACK, NEW YORK.

     I am a little girl nine years old. I have read all the numbers of
     YOUNG PEOPLE, and like them very much. I have two pet kittens and
     a big Newfoundland dog. We call the dog Beppo. I have three
     brothers, and one sister, whose name is Edna, but she is not the
     one who sent an answer to Wiggle No. 12.

  KATIE M. G.

       *       *       *       *       *

  SEA GIRT, NEW JERSEY.

     This is a splendid place to find land and water turtles. I have
     several, which I feed on mushrooms, meat, and insects. Soft-shell
     crabs are liked very much by water turtles, if they are very
     fresh.

     I would be very glad to send some pressed arbutus to Carrie
     Harding, but it has done blooming for this year. I would like to
     exchange other kinds of pressed flowers with her.

     I tried the recipe for doll's cup-cake sent by Bessie L. S., and
     liked it very much.

  DAISY VIOLET M.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I noticed Sidney B. P.'s question about feeding and caring for
     young mocking-birds. Blackberries are good food for them when they
     are about three weeks old. The yolk of an egg boiled hard and
     mashed fine with a boiled Irish potato is also good. Feed the
     birds about every hour, and after they are through eating give
     them about a tea-spoonful of fresh water, which you will have to
     pour down their throats.

     When the birds are very young they must not be put in a wire cage,
     as they will injure themselves fluttering against the bars. Put
     them in a small box, with a piece of mosquito netting fastened
     over the top. Do not take them from the nest too young--never
     until they are eight or ten days old--as they will die.

     I have already asked to exchange stamps with the readers of YOUNG
     PEOPLE, and I would like the following stamp, if any one can send
     it to me: United States War Department, ninety cents, red.

  HARRY S. KEALHOFER,
  121 Adams Street, Memphis, Tennessee.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fannie T. D., of Atlanta, Georgia, sends the following additional directions for the care of
full-grown mocking birds:

     Fruits and minced raw beef are good food for them. The cage, which
     should be large, must be thoroughly cleaned every day, and
     supplied with fresh water and sand. A little bag of sulphur
     fastened in the top of the cage tends to keep the birds healthy.
     And they will always sing better if confined in separate cages.
     Mocking-birds require much attention, especially when they are
     moulting.

       *       *       *       *       *

Frank K., of Norfolk, Virginia, writes that mocking-birds are fond of the yolk of a hard-boiled
egg mixed with Indian meal, made fresh every morning. They will like the food still better
if it is moistened with a little milk, and minced raw beef mixed with it now and then. The
cage should be hung in a dry, airy place.

       *       *       *       *       *

  MERCED CITY, COLORADO.

     When I read in YOUNG PEOPLE what T. H. said of his early
     morning-glories, I thought I would tell about my vines. I have two
     play houses covered with them. The first thing in the morning I
     run to see if I have any new colors blossomed. The flower I like
     best is white with blue spots. One side of my play house is
     covered with dwarf vines. Mamma calls them convolvulus. I am seven
     years old.

  ELIZA A. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

So many of our young readers are studying French that we do not give a translation of the following
letter:

  MILLDALE, KENTUCKY.

     Je suis une petite fille de douze ans. Je demeure à la campagne
     dans une jolie petite maison sur une côte. En bas de la côte il y
     a une rivière dans l'aquelle mon gros chien va se baigner. Il
     s'appelle Moka. Je joue à la cache avec lui. Quand je lui met un
     morceae du pain sur son nez, je compte un, deux, trois, alors il
     le jette en l'air et le rattrape quand il redescend. II y a tant
     de choses qu'il fait que je ne puis pas vous dire tout.

     J'ai aussi une chatte que j'appelle Minette. Quand elle attrape
     une souris, elle vient nous la montrer, et il faut que nous
     l'applaudissions de ce qu'elle a fait.

     J'ai lu beaucoup des journaux du petit monde. Une demoiselle me
     les a donnè, et je vous assure que je les trouve bien
     intéressants.

  MADELAINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

  GREENFIELD, ILLINOIS.

     One day last week we found a strange-looking insect, which I
     should like to know the name of. It is about three inches long. It
     has four long legs near the middle of its body, very bright eyes,
     and two horns. It is just the color of the branch of the tree
     where we found it. I have a collection of shells, stones, and
     insects, and am going to make a tree album.

  JESS L. B.

This curious insect probably belongs to the Ambulatoria, or walking-stick family, of which
several varieties are found in America.

       *       *       *       *       *

  SCOTTSVILLE, NEW YORK.

     I send a recipe for cake to Puss Hunter's cooking club: One beaten
     egg, one cup of sugar, one cup of sour cream, two cups of flour,
     one tea-spoonful of soda, a little grated nutmeg; bake in little
     tins.

  MARY L. MCV.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I will exchange a little of the soil of Iowa for a little soil
     from any other State.

     If the little correspondent in Denmark would send me a specimen of
     Danish soil, I would be very much pleased.

  CLARA SCOFIELD,
  P. O. Box 59, Washington, Iowa.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I would like to exchange postmarks with any boy or girl in the
     United States or Canada. I have a very large assortment from
     nearly all the States of the Union.

  CHARLES J. LIVINGOOD,
  Care of Dr. James C. Livingood, Womelsdorf, Pa.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I am a reader of YOUNG PEOPLE, and like it very much. I am
     thirteen years old. My father is Register of Deeds for Coos
     County, and I help him. I can record ten deeds in a day. And I can
     cook and do all kinds of housework.

     I would like to exchange pressed ferns or flowers with any readers
     of YOUNG PEOPLE. I also have about twenty-five plants, and would
     like to exchange slips. I have a small collection of birds' eggs,
     containing about twenty varieties, and would gladly increase my
     collection by exchange.

  FRANK B. FLANDERS,
  P. O. Box 630, Lancaster, New Hampshire.

When our correspondents request an exchange of delicate and perishable things, like slips of
plants, it would be well for them to state a safe way of forwarding them.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I find YOUNG PEOPLE a very useful little paper.

     I will exchange six specimens of Nantucket sea-weeds, mounted on
     paper, for six pressed wild flowers from California or Florida. Or
     I will exchange sea-weeds for birds' eggs or flower seeds. I am
     ten years old.

  ETHEL M. JOHNSON,
  Nantucket, Massachusetts.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I have a nice collection of beetles, and would like to exchange
     with some correspondent in the Eastern States.

  S. B.,
  Office of Journal of Commerce,
  414 Clay Street, San Francisco, California.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALBERT M.--We have not yet published any such description.

       *       *       *       *       *

BESSY.--Yes, you may send the history of your dolls. If it is interesting, and not too long,
we will try to print it in the Post-office Box.

       *       *       *       *       *

G. W. D.--Any number of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE can be obtained by sending full address, and
amount in clean postage stamps, to Harper & Brothers.

       *       *       *       *       *

NED B.--By referring to the advertisement of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE you will see that one or
more copies of the paper will be sent to any address, on receipt of the price, postage free.

       *       *       *       *       *

C. FLAGLER.--Probably the correspondent to whom you wrote for exchange has received so many
letters that he has not yet had time to answer you. We know this to be the trouble with some
of our correspondents who have asked for exchange. Alice I. Paine, of Georgia, has recently
written to us that she has received over fifty letters, and finds it impossible to answer them
all separately, or to make an exchange with every correspondent, for as nearly all asked her
for the same kind of eggs, she can not procure enough to satisfy the demand. Those who have
failed to receive an answer from Miss Alice will please take notice of this explanation, which
we make at her request.

       *       *       *       *       *

Favors are acknowledged from E. E. Wolford, Bertha T. Thompson, L. C., Frank Graves, Sallie
Whitaker, Charles N., George G. Seitz, Bessy M. Flagler, Emily K. Jeffries, Florence V. M.,
Mamie B. Cozzens, Frank and Ida Reveley, Duff Pancoast, Paul De Moll, Margaret Louise, Adolph
C. Hungarland, Jessie E. Turner, Federal E. Whittlesey, Mark Manley, A. J. D., Nettie Hereford,
Gussie M., Mary A. P., M. E. B., Porter Stansell, Allie Lawson, Mina S. Chase, Willard R. Drake,
Edward L. Todd, Julia B. Smith.

       *       *       *       *       *

Correct answers to puzzles are received from W. H. W., Daisie Balch, Altia R. Austin, Harry
I. Furlong, Alward Tobey, Nena Crommelin, E. R. Hall, Bessy Guyton, Effie K. Talboys, Lizzie
J. B., Eddie A. Leet, Daisy Violet, "North Star," Lulu A. Sacchi, Sarah R. D., George H. Kirchner,
Harry Phillips, G. W. Davis, Annie D. Jones, Ada Vouté, Frank Lomas, "Lone Star," Eddie S.
Hequembourg, A. V., Edith Bidwell.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUZZLES FROM YOUNG CONTRIBUTORS.

No. 1.

WORD SQUARE.

First, what no one wishes to be. Second, a metal. Third, to approach. Fourth, a part of the body.

  BIRDIE.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 2.

DOUBLE ACROSTIC.

At the present time. A girl's name. A guide. A lyric poem. A celebrated English painter. A
title. A Shakspearean character. A Roman Emperor. Answer--Primals form the name of a celebrated
general, and finals the battle in which he was defeated.

  S. F. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 3.

ENIGMA.

  My first is in good, but not in bad.
  My second is in sane, but not in mad.
  My third is in rooster, not in fowl.
  My fourth is in hawk, but not in owl.
  My fifth is in plant, but not in flower.
  My sixth is in rain, but not in shower.
  My seventh is in bluster, not in rant.
  My eighth is in emmet, not in ant.
  My whole is the name of a lovely plant.

  HELEN E. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 4.

EASY NUMERICAL CHARADES.

  1. I am a Spanish city. My 1, 2, 3 is angry. My 4, 5, 6 is to drive
      away.
  2. I am a Russian city. My 1, 2, 3 is a combat. My 4, 5, 6 is a tool.
  3. I am a city in Europe. My 1, 2 is a preposition. My 3, 4, 5, 6 are
      fowls.
  4. I am one of the United States. My 1, 2, 3,4, 5, 6, 7 is to join. My
      8 is a pronoun. My 9, 10, 11 is to sever.

  T. H. V. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 5.

PREFIXES.

I am a part of the body. By prefixing different letters of the alphabet I may be changed into
a fruit, a period of time, an animal, a term of affection, wearing apparel, a sign of emotion,
anxiety, or verbs signifying to approach, to attend, to raise up, to wither, and to waste gradually.
What am I? and what are my changes?

  GEORGE E.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO PUZZLES IN NO. 39.

No. 1.

Cloudesley Shovel.

No. 2.

  H O U R
  O L G A
  U G L Y
  R A Y S

No. 3.

1. Venice. 2. Siam. 3. Rome. 4. Salem. 5. Oxford. 6. London. 7. Denmark. 8. Persia. 9. Sweden.
10. Leith.

No. 4.

Orange.

No. 5.

      O
    O R E
  O R G A N
    E A T
      N

No. 6.

  M omen  T
  A  cr   E
  I  be   X
  N iagar A
  E xpres S

Maine, Texas.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our Children's Songs. Illustrated. 8vo, Ornamental Cover, $1.00.

       *       *       *       *       *

This is a large collection of songs for the nursery, for childhood, for boys and for girls,
and sacred songs for all. The range of subjects is a wide one, and the book is handsomely illustrated.--Philadelphia
Ledger.

Songs for the nursery, songs for childhood, for girlhood, boyhood, and sacred songs--the whole
melody of childhood and youth bound in one cover.

The Child's Book of Nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Child's Book of Nature, for the Use of Families and Schools: intended to aid Mothers and
Teachers in Training Children in the Observation of Nature. In Three Parts. Part I. Plants.
Part II. Animals. Part III. Air, Water, Heat, Light, &c. By WORTHINGTON HOOKER, M.D. Illustrated.
The Three Parts complete in One Volume, Small 4to, Half Leather, $1.12; or, separately, in
Cloth, Part I., 45 cents; Part II., 48 cents; Part III., 48 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

A beautiful and useful work. It presents a general survey of the kingdom of nature in a manner
adapted to attract the attention of the child, and at the same time to furnish him with accurate
and important scientific information. While the work is well suited as a class-book for schools,
its fresh and simple style cannot fail to render it a great favorite for family reading.

The Three Parts of this book can be had in separate volumes by those who desire it. This will
be advisable when the book is to be used in teaching quite young children, especially in schools.

HARPER & BROTHERS, FRANKLIN SQUARE, N. Y.

ELEMENTARY EDUCATION

Books for the School and Family.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.

SWINTON'S LANGUAGE PRIMER. Language Primer: Beginners' Lessons in Speaking and Writing English.
By WILLIAM SWINTON, A.M. 12mo, Half Leather, 30 cents.

SWINTON'S NEW LANGUAGE LESSONS. New Language Lessons: an Elementary Grammar and Composition.
By WILLIAM SWINTON, A.M. 12mo, Cloth, 40 cents.

FOWLER'S ELEMENTARY ENGLISH GRAMMAR. An Elementary English Grammar for Common Schools. By WILLIAM
C. FOWLER, LL.D. 16mo, Half Leather, 53 cents.

FIRST LESSONS IN NATURAL HISTORY AND LANGUAGE. Entertaining and Instructive Lessons in Natural
History and Language for Primary and Grammar Schools, 12mo, Cloth, 35 cents.

HEADING AND SPELLING.

