One of Orcagna's altar-pieces, that of 'the coronation of the Virgin,' containing upwards of
a hundred figures, and with the colouring still rich, is in our National Gallery. As an architect,
Orcagna designed the famous Loggia de' Lanzi of the grand ducal palace at Florence.

Now I must take you back to the bronze gates of the Baptistery in their triumphant completion
nearly a hundred years after the first gate was executed by Andrea Pisano. I should have liked,
but for our limits, to tell in full the legend of the election of Lorenzo Ghiberti, the step-son
of a goldsmith, and skilled in chasing and enamelling, to design the second gate; when yet
a lad of twenty-three, how he and two other young men, one of them still younger than Ghiberti,
were declared the most promising competitors in the trial for the work; how the last two voluntarily
withdrew from the contest, magnanimously proclaiming Lorenzo Ghiberti their superior; how all
the three lived to be famous, the one as a founder in metal, the others as an architect and
a sculptor, and remained sworn brothers in art till death.

Lorenzo Ghiberti has left us an expression of the feeling with which he set about his task,
an expression so suggestive that, even had we no other indication, it is enough to stamp the
true and tender nature of the man. He prepared for his achievement 'with infinite diligence
and love'--the words deserve to be pondered over. He took at least twenty-two years to his
work, receiving for it eleven hundred florins. He chose his subjects from the life and death
of the Lord, working them out in twenty panels, ten on each side of the folding doors, and
below these were eight panels containing full-length figures of the four evangelists and four
doctors of the Latin Church, with a complete border of fruit and foliage, having heads of prophets
and sibyls interspersed. So entire was the satisfaction the superb gate gave, that Lorenzo
was not merely loaded with praise, he received a commission to design and cast a third and
central gate which should surpass the others, that were thenceforth to be the side entrances.

For his second gate Lorenzo Ghiberti repaired to the Old Testament for subjects, beginning
with the creation and ending with the meeting of Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, and represented
them in ten compartments enclosed in a rich border of fruit and foliage, with twenty-four full-length
figures of the Hebrew heroes and prophets, clearly and delicately designed and finished, occupying
corresponding niches. This crowning gate engaged the founder upwards of eighteen years--forty-nine
years are given as the term of the work of both the gates.

The single defect which is found in those marvellous gates--left to us as a testimony of what
the life-long devotion of genius could produce--is that they abound floridly both in ornament
and action, in place of being severely simple and restrained according to the classical standard.

Michael Angelo called these gates 'worthy to be the gates of Paradise,' and they are still
one of the glories of Florence. Casts of the gates are to be found in the School for Art at
Kensington, and at the Crystal Palace.

A young village boy learned to draw and model from Ghiberti's gates. He in his turn was to
create in the Brancacci Chapel of the Church of the Carmine at Florence a school of painters
scarcely less renowned and powerful in its effects than that produced by the works in the Campo
Santa. You will find the Italian painters not unfrequently known by nicknames, quite as often
by their father's trades as by their father's surnames, and still oftener by the town which
was their place of birth or nurture. This Tom village birth-place, was commonly called Masaccio,
short for Tomasaccio, 'hulking Tom,' as I have heard it translated, on account of his indifferent,
slovenly habits. I think there is a tradition that he entered a studio in Florence as a colour
boy, and electrified the painter and his scholars, by brownie like freaks of painting at their
unfinished work, in their absence, better than any of his masters, and by the dexterity with
which he perpetrated the frolic of putting the facsimile of a fly on one of the faces on the
easels. His end was a tragic conclusion to such light comedy. At the age of twenty-six, he
quitted Florence for Rome so suddenly that he left his finest frescoes unfinished. It was said
that he was summoned thither by the Pope. At Rome, where little or nothing of Masaccio's life
is known, he died shortly afterwards, not without a suspicion of his having been poisoned.

A curious anecdote exists of the identification of the time when he forsook Florence to meet
his death in Rome. Just as we have read, that the period of the death of Massinger the dramatist
has been settled by an entry in an old parish register, 'died, Philip Massinger a stranger,'
so there has been found some quaint equivalent to a modern tax-paper which had been delivered
at the dwelling of Masaccio when the word 'gone' was written down.

There is a further tradition--not very probable under the circumstances--that Masaccio is buried,
without name or stone, under the Brancacci Chapel. Be that as it may, he very early rose to
eminence, surpassing all his predecessors in drawing and colouring, and he combined with those
acquirements such animation and variety of expression in his characters, that it was said of
him 'he painted souls as well as bodies,' while his invention was not less bold and fresh.

It is difficult to indicate Masaccio's pictures because some of them have been repainted and
destroyed. As to those in the Brancacci Chapel from the life of St Peter, (with the exception
of two,) considerable confusion has arisen as to which are Masaccio's, and which belong to
his scholar Filippino Lippi. The fresco which Masaccio left unfinished, that of the Apostles
Peter and Paul raising a dead youth (from traditional history), was finished by Lippi. In the
fresco of Peter baptizing the converts, generally attributed to Masaccio, there is a lad who
has thrown off his garments, and stands shivering with cold, whose figure, according to authority,
formed an epoch in art. Lionardo da Vinci, Michael Angelo, Andrea del Sarto, Fra Bartolommeo,
all studied their art in this chapel. Raphael borrowed the grand figure of St Paul preaching
at Athens in one of the cartoons, from one of Masaccio's or Filippo Lippi's frescoes. Masaccio's
excellence as an artist, reached at an immature age, is very remarkable.

