PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 150.

March 29, 1916

CHARIVARIA.

"His seventy-one years sit lightly on Mr. GIBSON BOWLES," says the Special Correspondent of
The Evening News. No doubt Mr. BOWLES has some good reason for permitting this familiarity,
for he is not a man to be lightly sat upon.

       ***

"In particular," says a report on the resources of German East Africa, "the President of the
Silk Association has just directed attention to the wild silk of the anaphe worm." The animal
the great two-horned silkworm discovered by Sir HARRY JOHNSTON, before whose furious charges,
according to the report of natives, even the elephant will give way.

       ***

A telegram from Rome states that it is generally believed that Admiral TIRPITZ resigned because
he could not take the German Fleet out. Others again maintain that it was because he could
no longer take the German people in.

       ***

It was recently stated in a Parliamentary Report that verminous uniforms had been purchased
by the Government for the sum of £2,650 and immediately resold for £400. The difference is
accounted for by the fact that they were sold as going concerns.

       ***

A white rook has been observed at Boston Road, Brentford, and a local ornithologist writes
to say that the bird is probably an accidental straggler from King's Bishop's Fourth.

       ***

"To-day in many English homes," says a patriotic contemporary, "alien birds are carolling all
unconscious of their countries' doom." One had independently noticed how the modulated of the
Turkey buzzard had taken on a mournful tone.

       ***

"It is not unusual for horses to go to sleep as they walk along," said a sagacious coroner
last week. How often in the old four-wheeler days, when we were going ventre a terre from Buckingham
Palace to the National Liberal Club, conversation was rendered impossible by the snores of
the flying steed.

       ***

The price of admission to Kew for perambulators is 3d. on ordinary days, 1s. on student days.
The extra charge has been found necessary because of the fact that large numbers of horticulturists,
in order to escape military service, have taken to travelling in these vehicles.

       ***

According to the author of In a College Garden "it is not advisable to encourage any but educated
ladies to become gardeners." It is always pleasant to note the extent to which a simple thing
like a potato will recognise and respond to gentility in those who associate with it.

       ***

    "The Italian Ambassador opened the exhibition of the Royal
    Society of Brush Artists at the society's premises in
    Suffolk-street."

    Evening Paper.

Mr. Punch welcomes the implicit admission that there are others.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "What is needed is that we should have on each of the main lines
    of our overseas communications at least one ship that is faster
    than anything else afloat."--Manchester Guardian.

Is it not extraordinary that the Admiralty should never have thought of this simple device?

       *       *       *       *       *

From a theatre programme:--

    "All the Male Members of the above Company are either attested
    under Lord Derby's Scheme, or are otherwise Ineligible for
    Service."

The erroneous impression that to be attested is the short road to ineligibility has evidently
spread from the platform to the stage.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOR THEY ARE JOLLY POOR FELLOWS.

    [The fine example of patriotism shown by the Universities of
    Oxford and Cambridge throws into painful relief the action of
    some of the obscure remnant, including College Fellows, who have
    excused themselves from service or adopted an attitude of
    superior detachment in relation to the War.]

  You Intellectuals of Cam and Isis,
    Pale phantoms in the dawn of Freedom's light,
  And you that in this hour of England's crisis
    Haven't the conscience (or the heart) to fight;

  You cosmopolitans without a country,
    Who go aloof on philosophic quests,
  Sucking the fruit of knowledge from the Hun-tree
    And spiritual milk from alien breasts;

  False to that Brotherhood, who for the splendour
    Of a great cause, with gallant hearts and gay,
  Of youth and youth's high promise made surrender,
    Because their courage knew the nobler way;

  I envy not your chance on their returning;
    When, scarred with war, they come from overseas,
  There should be trouble in those Seats of Learning
    Where you sat tight and took your pedants' ease.

  Short shrift you'll get for your convenient scruples;
    Conducted thither where the wet stream winds
  You shall receive as elementary pupils
    An object-lesson good for little minds.

  Somewhere about the Guts of Cam and Isis,
    May I be well in front to see you then
  Taught by immersion what the local price is
    To pay for being prigs instead of men.

O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHILOGAMUS.

(A Socratic Fragment.)

"... It is plain, therefore," said Socrates, "that the man whose soul is afflicted with illness
will desire above all things to have it cured as quickly as possible, and for this purpose
he will submit himself to one who understands the curing of souls. So far, I think, we are
agreed, are we not?"

"Yes, indeed," said Agathon, "that would appear to be the wisest course."

"Then why," said Socrates, "do we find that men who are generally eager to be cured of an ague
are indisposed to take care of their soul when it is manifestly suffering? You yourself have
declared that your soul is sick within you, yet you consult nobody and take no steps."

"Nay, nay, Socrates, I cannot allow you to catch me like this. Perhaps I spoke thoughtlessly
when I mentioned my soul just now. Certainly I had not intended that you should tie me up with
your questions and draw conclusions which it was impossible for me to foresee."

"Then I suppose the fault must be mine, for in truth I had not designed to catch anyone, least
of all yourself, my dear Agathon. But we will defer the consideration of the matter to a more
favourable time, for I see Philogamus approaching and, if we may judge by the outward signs,
he seems to be, as one might say, in a terrible state."

Hereupon we turned to observe Philogamus, to whom indeed something painful and calamitous must
have happened, for his garments were disarrayed and his hair was unkempt, and anger was seated
upon his frowning brow, and he was muttering to himself and calling the gods to witness that
he was unjustly treated and that no such misfortune had ever before happened to any other man;
and he was beating his hands wildly together and was forgetting to salute his friends. Seeing
him thus distraught Socrates plucked him by the sleeve as he passed and addressed him.

"Hail, Philogamus," he said, "what great misfortune do you announce to us? Have the Barbarians
at last seized upon the Piræus, and are they even now marching irresistibly on the Acropolis?
Are you sent out to summon us to arms? Here are a few of us who will join with you, laying
aside even their most pressing private business, and will help to defend the State and themselves
to the last gasp. Only do you deliver your message and let us know."

"This," said Philogamus, "is no moment for laughing, though in laughter, O Socrates, you are
always easily first, as they say, and the rest nowhere. But have you not heard what has happened?"

"No," said Socrates, "and we much desire to know. I can speak confidently for myself, and Agathon
here is, I am sure, in a fever of impatience."

"Listen, then, and, by the gods, you shall be made aware of an injustice that calls for immediate
redress. They are even now on the point of calling up the married men to go to the War."

"That is very interesting; and what do the married men say to it?"

"What do they say?" shouted Philogamus. "They say they will not go unless, according to the
promises of Darbius and Ascuthius, all the unmarried men are taken first;" and he began once
more beating his breast and glaring with his eyes like a dog who has been for long without water.

"Softly, my good friend," said Socrates, "softly. As to the promise, I know it is being rigidly
kept. All the willing single men are gone or going, and the unwilling are being compelled to
join as quickly as is possible. What more can be done?"

"Something ought to be done."

"That is very true," said Socrates; "something ought always to be getting itself done, and
the something at this moment is that the Barbarians ought to be beaten. But tell me, with regard
to the married men, are they not concerned in the safety and welfare of the State?"

"That, indeed, they are," said Philogamus; "none more so."

"In that case why do they hang back and complain when the State declares that its safety and
welfare demand that they should be ready to go? Because one here and there has concealed himself,
is it for you, a married man, to retire when by going you might help to thrust back the Barbarians?
Are you one of those that are called the attested ones?"

"Yes, that I am," said Philogamus, proudly displaying his brown armlet with the red crown.

"Then it is you, as it appears to me, who have given a pledge and made a promise, and that
promise, I am sure, you will fulfil to the best of your ability. When the time comes it is
for you to go at once and not to weary the market-place with empty noise and murmurs of complaint.
For remember this: the man who has taken a wife and has brought up children under the State's
protection owes more, if it be possible...."

(Here the fragment ends.)

       *       *       *       *       *

From a description of the German Crown Prince:--

    "Before the war he liked to imitate the English, and posed as a
    German megalomaniac."

    Daily News.

Yes, we believe there were some English like that--before the War.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MARKS OF THE BEAST.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SCOTTISH REEL THING AT LAST.

Now that Sir J. M. BARRIE has shown us the Transatlantic kinema man's idea of the perfect Macbeth,
it is up to the purveyor of American films to retaliate by presenting one of his plots for
ordinary stage performance in the Kirriemuir manner. Here and there an inadvertent touch of
Western colour may be anticipated.

Scene.--Kensington Gardens. The Heroine--oh, the little love!--is taking a dander round the
"Keep off the Grass" boards. Her feet are bare, and this is probably the reason why from time
to time she dances among the trees. In the background the Hero, wearing a divided kilt, rides
about on a horse. Having thus given the audience time to settle, the play starts.

Heroine (perceiving Hero). Gee! there's that rube I met up North. Sic a bonny lad too! (sighing
sadly). But he hasna much siller, I'm sair misdootin'. Guess there's no twelve-pound look about
him.

Hero (dashing up and dismounting). Wal, I wanter know. Say, ain't you the peach I useter see
from my window in Thrums?

Heroine (coyly). Havers!

Hero (not to be outdone), Dagont!

[She strolls away with her chin in the air, her shoes and stockings in her hands, and the famous
red light in her eye. She goes behind a tree, and the Hero, thinking she has retired there
to greet sadly, follows to console her. However, he discovers that she is merely resuming her
footgear, and he retreats modestly.]

Hero (rolling his eyes wildly to denote love). A snod bit lassie, that. I mean to say--I--ay!
Juist so! Ay, ou ay!

