"On the second night of our vigil I retired to bed hugely sleepy. I had left Travers on guard
in the library. He was seated in an armchair under my Albertus Magnus, with his rifle over
his knees. I did not take off my clothes, but threw myself, dressed as I was, upon the bed.
Determining to make sure of some rest I took a stiff glass of hot brandy. I slept--I could
scarcely help sleeping--but not for long, for I suddenly awoke from a tumultuous dream, my
limbs atremble, and my forehead sticky with cold sweat. It seemed as though somebody was calling
my name from a vast distance. The room was full of whisperings and moanings and strange uncanny
things. Something was evidently at work in my sub-consciousness. Nothing was wrong with Travers
or I should have heard the report of his rifle. Yet something was wrong! The conviction grew
stronger and stronger within me. Then came the faint sound of rattling at the brass knob, and
with sudden horror I saw the door open a couple of inches. A pause of some seconds and it was
pushed open still farther. For a space of five seconds my heart seemed to stop beating, and
then the worst came. You will think I was beside myself; but as the door was pushed open a
face peeped round behind it, and I saw two green eyes looking at me! I had at once recognised
the face, and the face was that of Ombos! He appeared to smile at me, but it was a leer of
inscrutable evil and malevolence, and I took up my rifle and fired at a venture. A howl of
pain, hoarse with anger, rent the air, and the face vanished.... I rushed downstairs and into
the library. As I entered, the body of Travers came twisting across the room like a penny whirligig.
His head struck the marble fire-place with a frightful dull thud, and he fell a motionless
heap on the floor. I struck straight in front of me with a rifle--and hit something--something
that pushed past me. Then the front door opened and shut with a deafening clang. A sudden qualm
of real fear took hold of my heart, but, mastering it as best I could, I opened the front door
and tore madly down the drive. I looked down the hushed street. Past the lamp-posts, skipping
from the gloom into the light and from light into shadow, with a series of bounds, sped a horrible
apish form. It bounded along with incredible fleetness, and was soon lost to view in the distant
gloom. Just at that moment Clayton came down the drive. I could not speak. I pointed to the
library.... I beckoned him to follow. On the floor lay the dead body of John Travers. The statue
of Albertus Magnus had vanished!

"And there the story ends. I can give no explanation whatever, beyond what I have related.
The bronze figure has never, so far as I know, been seen again, nor has the restless spirit
of poor Ombos walked again in our garden and library. But, taking the circumstances into consideration,
the whole train of events points to the fact that Ombos had in some occult way passed his ethereal
body into that statue, and for that very reason he was unable to rest quietly in his grave."

"You will continue to live in the house at Abbot's Ely, of course," said Duckford.

Crabbe shook his head. "Never! I wrote a week ago putting it in the agent's hands for sale.
There may be nothing in it, but I hardly want to make any new experiments now. The bronze statue
has disappeared. I should like to think it was stolen by a gang of burglars. But I remember
that chuckle--the malicious mirth of some unearthly thing, it seemed. And I remember ... let
us leave it at that. I want to forget, to walk in the Sunshine, in the crowded Strand, away
from the darknesses and silences. As I say, there the story ends.... I have told you all of it."

       *       *       *       *       *

But Captain Crabbe did not tell it all. The best part was "strictly private." He married Margot
at half-past ten on the following Saturday morning but one, at St. George's, Hart Street, Bloomsbury.

II

THE DE GAMELYN TRADITIONS

He was just an Irish soldier's son; a real boy in real life, and his name was Tim, and that
was the only name he had besides his surname which was Gamelyn. And somehow he was perfectly
happy. But one day he found an old book and read about a boy whose name was Victor; and the
more he read about Victor the more ardent was his wish to be like Victor, and he wished that
he had been called Victor--for Victor was a genius and a gentleman, and all things which Victor
put his hands to were crowned with success. But Tim's name was Tim Gamelyn, which was unfortunate;
and when he went to an English school at Margate they called him, because his hair was red,
"Carrots" which was heartbreaking.

In the book nobody had ever jeered at Victor or called him nicknames; they would have been
dealt with very severely, besides they would not have dared; he was far too heroic. So Tim
became very furious when the other fellows called him "Carrots." But the more he showed his
dislike for this name the more the boys made use of it, also when they had time to spare--they
warmed their hands in the imaginary heat radiated by his ruddy hair. It was impossible to uphold
any dignity under the circumstances, and he began to wonder what Victor would have done in
a like predicament. But then Victor's hair was rich and brown and curly, and no one could have
said a word against it; Tim's was red and of the kind that fate keeps in stock of the humble
and low, and it made a little lump come up in his throat when he realized it. Then the football
season on, Victor, Tim well remembered, had gone in for every kind of athletic sport. When
he had first arrived at a strange boarding school he had refused, with a heedless laugh, to
say whether he could play or not. Victor did not even deign to go near the football field for
a month. But ten minutes before the Match of the year commenced he suddenly made up his mind
to play. During the first half of the game Victor had "laid low"; he was waiting. Then his
eyes flashed, and his lithe, active figure flashed up the field sending the ball into the posts
like a shot from a gun, thus scoring the first and only goal. He had then fainted away; and
a beautiful girl had exclaimed "A-a-a-a-a-h," and had hurried to him with a smelling-bottle
and much sympathy. When he recovered, he sat up and made an apology for stopping the game and
was loudly cheered by both teams. This was the model which Tim had to keep in his mind's eye.
In one or two ways he succeeded, and in others he failed--failed dismally.

When Tim came to ask questions about football at Thetford Grammar School he found it was quite
another thing. In the first place the boys all spoke to him in that specially offensive you're-only-a-little-kid
sort of way. They also took it for granted that he had never seen a football in his life. He
found it impossible to refuse (with a careless laugh) to say whether he had ever kicked a ball
before. He was told that he would have to play in the next school practice match, and that
if he could kick a ball, he might be allowed to play in a real match one fine day. When the
first practice game commenced, Tim remembered that an enthusiastic crowd had run by Victor's
side, shouting wildly: "Hurrah! hurrah for Victor." It is true that a few of the smaller boys
shouted at him. But what they shouted was: "Put a bit of life into it, old Carrots!" and "Go
it, Rufus! You'll never score a goal if you kick the ball in that mother-may-I-have-an-orange
style." During the first part of the game Tim was rather quiet--he was waiting for a golden
opportunity, just as Victor had waited. It came when the forwards were in full movement, and
the ball came travelling neatly along the line on the right wing. It finally came to rest at
Tim's feet, and he, avoiding a man who darted at him, raced forward a few yards. Then something,
which came through the air like a Whitehead Torpedo, sent him spinning backwards on the grass.
Amidst roars of laughter from the other fellows, the Whitehead Torpedo, (who was a boy and
smaller than Tim), spun round, ran the ball a few dozen yards, and sent it soaring away with
a vent kick straight for the goal. There was a moment of silence. The ball pitched fair and
square on the top bar, and then trickled gently between the posts.

A howl of joy went up from the small fry who had been "ragging" Tim all the time.

Tim sat up and looked about him. He had not fainted, but he felt very sick and dizzy, and nobody
sympathised with him. A small freckle-faced boy was standing over him.

"The ground is slippery to-day," he grinned, extending a hand to the unfortunate Tim, who lay
on the sludgy, squdgy mud gasping like a recently-landed trout.

Tim accepted, and scrambled painfully to his feet. The pomp of battle had departed from him.

A few weeks afterwards, as Tim was walking across the water meadows, he saw a youth of serious
and agricultural appearance throwing a poor, defenceless little terrier into the mill stream.
Every time the miserable little animal crawled up on to the river bank the youth hurled it
into the deep water again. Now, that was the kind of thing that Victor was very down on. In
every chapter Victor punished people for cruelty to animals. Victor's blood always boiled at
such a sight--moreover, his strong arm always shot out, his eyes always flashed, and the great
hulking coward always lay prone at his feet begging for mercy with clasped hands. So Tim gathered
together his recollections of Victor's stock phrases, and advanced on the stolid youth:

"You cowardly ruffian! Have you no feelings that you ill-treat a man's best friend in that way?"

The stolid-looking youth seemed slightly astonished. He thrust his face forward and shook his
fist under Tim's nose. "Not your blooming business," he said. "You shift."

"You've got no right," began Tim.

"Right!" The youth's note was fierce. Then he took poor Tim by the scruff of his neck, and
observed that he had been teaching the pup to swim because he was water-shy, and that it was
good for all kinds of pups to know how to swim. Then he pushed Tim into the water after the
pup in order to teach him to keep his mouth shut and mind his own business.

Tim went away with the idea (perfectly correct) that the stolid-looking youth's hands that
had gripped his neck and the seat of his knickers were very strong, and another impression
that even Victor would not have stood an earthly chance against such a fellow. And it was just
then that he was aware of a little grey idea floating in the background of his mind that Victor
was a bit of a prig--also a fraud. It annoyed him that any such notion should occur to him
that the glory of his hero was an illusion, and he shook his head to get rid of it. Then his
brain sent a "wireless" that Victor might be all right in a little toy world of his own, peopled
entirely by heroes and scoundrels, and with all the scoundrels physically contemptible; but
that he would have done less brilliantly in the mixed-up old world that we have got at present.

Suddenly, as from a clear sky, came a bolt of common-sense to Tim, and he realized he had been
a fond and foolish jay. And that was why, when he had finished prep that evening, he exchanged
a copy, bound in calf, of Victor the Valiant for two oranges and a catapult.

Of course, the reaction set in. Tim was sent up to the station to bring home a new bicycle
for the head master, and he was especially warned not to ride it--just to walk it. Of course
he tried to ride it down Castle Hill, and collided violently with a milk cart. He returned
with what had been a new machine. So the Head made him write out one hundred times:

    And since he cannot spend or use aright
      The little time here given in his trust;
    But wasteth it in weary underlight
      Of foolish toil and trouble, strife and lust,
    He naturally clamours to inherit
      The Everlasting Future that his merit
    May have full scope--as surely is most just.

And Tim muttered, "All right, keep your hair on, Ben!"

"H'm;" said the Head, overhearing Tim. "Write it out two hundred times for your insolent conduct."

That was the start of his demoralisation. According to the laws of the Medes and Persians,
and the laws of Victor the Valiant, disaster and dishonour would be the end of this! It was
not at all the way Victor would have behaved. As a matter of fact on one occasion when a master
had been idiotic enough to give Victor a hundred lines, the valiant one had replied: "Pardon
me, sir, but if I may be so presumptuous I think I can call your attention to the fact that
you--unintentionally, of course--are treating me too severely." And the master had at once
seen the error of his ways and relieved Victor of the imposition.

Tim failed to get the verse written out in the stipulated time and the imposition was trebled.
Also he gathered up another hundred lines for "failure to attend prayers" and this placed him
in a state of hopeless bankruptcy.

When he wrote home to his mother. Here is what he said:

    "DEAREST MOTHER:

    "I got two hundred lines for breaking the Head's bicycle yesterday.
    Give my love to Dad. I got another hundred lines to-day for not
    being present at prayers. But don't you worry--I am not really
    bad--God has forgotten me, that is all.

                                           "Your loving Son,
                                                              "TIM."

And Tim--such was his natural depravity--did not much care. So callous and indifferent did
he become that he ceased to be hurt when the boys called him "Carrots." In fact he laughed.
And as he no longer objected when he was called "Carrots" the boys dropped that name, and the
shortest one survived. The boys started to call him "Tims" and in a few months he had won their
affection from the lowest fag to the highest lad in the school.

Two years afterwards, by dint of practice and pluck he had so far advanced that he ran second
in the quarter-mile at the Sports. Of course this was not very heroic. He was rewarded for
this feat of strength with a patent egg-boiler, which was of no sort of use to him, and, as
he discovered afterwards, of no use to anybody else. But he was exceedingly proud of the thing
and also exceedingly careful to conceal this fact from the other boys.

He became, to sum up his attitude, less and less like Victor. But it is not to be presumed
that he was sinking into mental nothingness. He was not perhaps quite so refined in his language
as he might have been, he used slang, and sometimes was inclined to hang his hat on the floor
and talk back. He was rather untidy in his dress. But certain compensating qualities of the
highest value were appearing in Tim. He had gathered to himself a plentiful supply of gumption--genius
is all right, but if it comes to a slow-down gumption is better. His hatred of "swank" reached
the point of unreasoning prejudice. He made many mistakes; but depend upon this: the man who
has never made a mistake has never made anything else worth having.

And Tim never became a great soldier, or a great sailor, or anything great. But he had good
spirits, and he concealed about his person a heart of gold; and after he left Thetford Grammar
School, boys found that somehow the games in the old playground seemed flat and spiritless.
They said that things weren't as they used to be in Tim's time.

I have told the reader that Tim Gamelyn's father was a retired non-commissioned officer who
lived near Dublin on a small private income and a pension. It will be seen that Tim's people
did not roll in wealth any to speak of. They owned a small farm with five cows, twenty pigs
and a flock of hens. There was beer always in the cellar, bacon hanging up in the kitchen and
a bucket of soft soap in the out-house. In the top lean-to room where Tim slept, in the winter
time the rain and sleet drifted cheerily in through the cracks and covered the army blankets
which covered him. But he didn't lie awake thinking about it--boys like Tim who help on farms
start playing shut-eye as soon as they hit the pillow.

Old Sergeant Gamelyn came of an ancestry which, somebody or other of distinction once said--and
very truly--is the backbone of the British Army. To put it briefly, if not gracefully, "what
old Gamelyn didn't know about soldiering weren't worth knowin'!" He had the ten thousand and
ten commandments of the King's Regulations always at his finger tips, and he and his people
had served in the same battalion, under the same officers or descendants for generations. There
was Michael Gamelyn who fell at Malplaquet; there was another Gamelyn who had served at Minden;
four Gamelyns served through the Peninsular. But only one came through to Waterloo. Balaclava,
the Indian Mutiny and Spion Kop each claimed a Gamelyn, and when the British troops returned
from Lhasa in 1904 they left one Sergeant Royden Gamelyn--resting in peace ten paces to the
rear of the Pargo Keeling Gate. Of course Tim Gamelyn grew up in the shadow of these things.
There was an old book in his father's oak kit box which Tim loved. In it he read about forgotten
drill and manual exercises, the uncomfortable and graceless man[oe]uvres of the rigid but redoubtable
men who fought at Waterloo. Also there were pictures in colour of warriors in three-cornered
hats, high stocks and powdered wigs. These men Tim worshipped. He had by heart the quaint words
of command in which Wellington's men were told to charge a musket with powder and ball. And
I doubt not that he could have taken a brigade and marched them to the attack with the best
of the old-time sergeants.

Then in August 1914 came the great war, and when Tim suggested going into Dublin to see Colonel
Arbuthnot about joining up to that battalion through which all the best of the Gamelyn men
had passed, his mother tried to laugh. But Tim saw the tears running down her cheeks, as she
threw her apron over her head and went out to bring the clothes in off the line. His father
then flung out his hand to him and said:

"Good boy, I thought 'twas in you. Good luck."

But when Tim joined his regiment soldiering had taken many new turns. The modern rifle would
not allow men to march into battle with colours flying and bands playing: the old brave way
was impossible in the face of machine guns. The pomp and pageantry of battle had departed and
there was nothing left but for the attacking party to crawl in a most inelegant fashion upon
the ground.

"Down!" cried the sergeant-instructor to poor Tim, who started his lessons in field training
with some vague idea about marching on the foe with "head and eyes erect" and with "pace unfaltering
and slow." "When you get out to Flanders you will have to get right down on your belly if you
want to live a little longer than ten minutes. Extend to five-six-ten paces and get as close
to old mother earth as possible and hide your bloomin' selves!"

"Hide yourselves!" thought Tim. "Not thus is it written in my father's book of drill! It plainly
said therein that the duty of a soldier was to learn how to die, not to hide from death."

Crushed and dejected he returned that morning to breakfast to wolf a chunk of bread and butter,
washed down by dishwater, misnamed tea.

After breakfast he retired to a corner and thought it all out. The words of the Sergeant came
back to him: "Hide yourself if yer want to live!"

These words stuck in his memory, as words which bring a new light on an outlook will. That
was the start of his demoralisation. He was the first of all his line who had been told to
hide himself from death. No more the worsted bravery, the pipeclay, lace and scarlet. No more
the old military swagger. No more the drummer boy with a waist like a French dancing girl,
wrists like Bombardier Wells, and shoulders like a wooden man out of a Noah's Ark. No more
the throbbing and growling of the drums; the staccato detonations and the insolent crescendoes
of the drums. No more the wild music that the bands played to the men who fought at Minden,
Malplaquet and Wynendael. No more the brushing of a comrade's arm one's own, inspiring boldness;
no more a thousand red coats marching on the enemy with slow and unfaltering pace. Tim could
see the men of his dreams now, in his mind's eye, marching with heads and eyes erect ... see,
too, the smoke of continuous volleys bursting out along the steady lines as they fired by sections
and companies on their foes. Well, it was all a thing of the past now. It was plainly his duty
not to be reckless. "Do not be dashing, do not expose yourself, do not cheer and make a noise,"
they said; "creep along like a worm in the grass; be crafty, be wary--and fall down on the
face before death."

It did not stop there. Lastly and worst they took away the officers of his dreams. They even
dressed them like privates and some were armed with rifles. There were no flashing swords to
follow. Not once did he see an officer anything like his father's picture of the Duke of Wellington
on the white horse pointing a curly sword to the skies and waving a cocked hat. Then there
came the day when Tim made his first acquaintance with field training, and beheld a loose and
disorderly scramble which men called an advance. To him it seemed just a mob of masterless
men, crawling and crouching on the grass, firing as they passed, and bowing cringingly before
death. It was a sight he could hardly endure--an exhibition offensive to any soldier whose
forbears had learnt to achieve the impossible as a matter of routine and had held firm for
half a day at Quatre Bras with never so much as the flicker of an eye-lid. Gad! there could
only be one end to this kow-towing to death, and that would be disaster and disgrace.

       *       *       *       *       *

The long dull plains of northern Europe stretched before Tim's gaze--great undulations of hard,
hot earth and waving grass. He'd been marching all day, and it was hot. Hot!... ye Gods!...
On those plains it was like a Turkish bath. Then "down" came the order, and the battalion flung
itself to the ground. Oh, but it was good to rest! Towards sunset the clouds piled up blacker
and blacker, and some hung frothy over the ridge in the distance. As the sun dropped, the west
turned red--all blood red--and he heard the order to march. He heard the word passed down the
line in half whispers, and the impressive sound of regiments getting under arms came to his
ears. Another five miles they marched and halted for tea. Then all the men became very silent--and
while they rested they talked in whispers as they watched the awful sky. When it grew dark
the flick-flack of lightening played across the sky and it showed the men's faces white and
drawn. Presently Tim's Company lieutenant came up with the news that they would not be able
to rest until morning as they had anticipated. There could be no stopping, for the regiment
had to reach the rendezvous at daybreak. As the storm rolled nearer, the wind got up, in puffs--first
warm and then cold, and a few drops of rain fell--great drops that fell flop-flop-flop--on
Tim's face. With a flash that leapt crackling over the plain, the storm loosed itself. The
lightning turned the rain into sheets of glittering silver, and the hot ground fairly boiled.
Tim, with a thousand others drenched, and blinded, struggled over the slippery turf. That was
a storm. Tim could have seen to read; and the thunder wrestled in the low churning clouds like
a million devils, and through it all ran the chorus of wind and lashing rain. Presently the
storm lessened and died away, and the rain settled to pour down on them for an hour or so.
The squelch-squelch of soaking boots and the creaking of leather equipment was all he heard.
They halted for breakfast, and Tim chewed his rations sitting on the sodden ground in sodden
clothes; and as he sipped his lukewarm coffee, he shivered in the coming dawn.

Almost immediately they went on again.

Right before them, at the head of a valley, rose a ridge. In the creepy light it looked miles
high and a million spitting points of fire flashed from it. The British guns in the woods at
the back then began, and they seemed to have no relation to the unvarying plumes of smoke bursting
above the long lines of fresh-turned earth two thousand yards away--no connection with the
screeching of the shells overhead. "Extended order!" came the command, and Tim with his regiment
stumbled forward. His breath came and went in little painful gasps. From the right came a curious
gasping choke, and looking, he saw the man next to him throw up his arms and pitch forward
on his face. Suddenly he became aware of a peculiar wailing above him, as if the air itself
was in torture. Again a long line of fire flashed out ahead of him and again came the wailing
sound. A Boche machine-gun loosed a few belts of cartridges in the spasmodic style of her kind.
There was no mistake about it this time--massed infantry were sweeping the plain with rifle
fire, and the quick-firers were feeling for an opening.

Another man was hit--close to Tim. He squealed like a girl; and a fellow near turned a dirty
white, stumbled, with a clatter fell in a fainting fit. Tardily the men advanced, and any acute
observer would have seen they had little heart in the business. Some hung behind almost unconsciously,
and had to be hurried up by the sergeants. The bullets became more thick. A man started to
blubber behind. "Gawd 'ave mercy! I ... I can't stand it! I won't go on!" he whined. It turned
out to be a sergeant, who had broken down too. He'd had little rest, poor chap, through shepherding
his company ... and now he had knocked under. The company swayed and hesitated. Some of them
faced round. It was touch and go. "Steady there! Steady! Come on, men;" said Stansfield, the
little company lieutenant, as the men wavered on the grey edge of collapse. "Steady that company;
what in hell's the matter with 'em. Keep your men up and going, Sir!" shouted a captain rushing
over. But the company had gone all to pieces. The fire of battle had departed from them, and
it flung itself on the ground. And soon the whole battalion was taking cover in the same way.
A captain called on Tim's company to advance. Two men obeyed and one of them was Tim. But the
enemy's fire redoubled and the other man was shot, and so Tim at once took cover again. The
saying of his sergeant-instructor in England came to his mind, that a man must lie down and
hide if he wished to live, and he felt quite justified in hugging the earth. Tim ached in every
inch of his body. Surely something was snapping in his brain, for those dusty khaki figures
on the ground, the sky, the earth all seemed to be dancing madly about him. It was not yet
light and Tim strained his eyes to pierce the darkness. Then he made a discovery. A dark mass,
like some prehistoric monster, was gradually approaching. Tim spoke to a man next to him who
was softly swearing and bandaging a shattered hand. He peered through the light and half-light
of dawn, and then started to laugh in a nervous way. "Hell, mate;" he said, "the whole German
race are advancing against us; it's all up with us. Look, they are coming on like a solid wall
... springing out of the earth just solid ... no end to 'em."

It was just about that time that Tim observed a light mist rising in front of him. It seemed
to scintillate and sparkle as it rose, and curled in a sort of pillar or spiral. "Great Heaven!"
he whispered to himself, "the thing is taking shape."

And true enough, in a very few moments he saw standing erect in front of him a tall man--and
he was dressed in shining armour; that was the strange thing about him. A strange-looking fellow
this! So were the bold features, which were rather marred by a white scar which stretched from
his left nostril to the angle of his jaw. But the jet-black hair and the eyes--the deep, dark,
challenging eyes--were those of Seville. A straight sword by his side and a painted long-bow
at his shoulder proclaimed him a bowman. A white surcoat with the red lion of St. George upon
it covered his broad chest, while a sprig of new-plucked furze at the side of his steel cap
gave a touch of gaiety to his grim war-worn clothes.

No sooner had Tim looked up than a deep rich voice exclaimed:

"Corpus Domini! do you need a leader?"

Tim was not a man to be easily startled, and with the bullets whining and ping-thudding all
around him, it was no manner of a time to be easily startled. But the voice, on account of
its unearthly sound, fairly made him jump. He picked up his rifle, and stood upright. "Come
along! Come along!" the voice went on. "Why dost stand there, De Gamelyn?"

"Oh, my God! I ... I can't stand it! The loss of blood and the marching has done for me!"

"So! coming into the fight like a lion, you go out like a lamb. By Saint Paul! this is not
in accordance with the De Gamelyn traditions. Take up thy arms! Come along!" said the stranger
tapping him on the shoulder with a barbed shaft trimmed with grey goose feather.

"Oh! please ... please.... I'm so tired!" said Tim, like a child speaking to its nurse.

The bowman saw that the boy's lips and tongue were black with thirst, and his eyes were blood-shot.
And when Tim staggered over to him all his body heaved and trembled like an overdriven horse.
Sick and dizzy with pain, he cast himself to earth again, and waited for death. "Why don't
they hit me?... I've tried,--oh, so hard!" he sobbed.

"Steady there! Steady, De Gamelyn! Take this," said the bowman, and drew something from his
side and handed it to him. It was a sword, if swords be made of fire, of lightning, of dazzling
lights; and the moment Tim grasped it all his pain and dizziness fell from him.

"What is this?" he asked.

"The Sword of Life and Death," said the bowman.

"Who the blazes are you?" Tim asked sceptically.

It was with a touch of the Irish brogue that a cheery voice answered. "A friend to a friend,"
said the bowman, "and the devil to a foe."

"Irish?" Tim questioned.

"Citizen of the world in time past ... now a citizen of heaven."

Tim gazed at the strange man in earnest scrutiny. He appeared quite at his ease with bullets
whining around him and he unslung a jack of wine and drank.

"May a parched man claim a drink of your wine?" Tim cried.

"Give what you have, ask what you need. That is the De Gamelyn code of law," said the man,
and handed Tim the flagon.

"You are cheerful, sir," said Tim, his blood somewhat warmed by the wine. "In the name of the
devil, who are you, and of what country?"

"My name is Nigel De Gamelyn. My Mother, dear soul, was French. My father was wise enough to
be an Irishman. So much for my blood, which unites happily the practical and the dreamer fluids.
I am of no country but I know all places from the King's tombs at Rome to the old inns that
stand about the upper Arun. I have marched with armies over this territory aforetime. There
is no shadow, I believe, on my soul, has such strength in him as I, and I rest content to be
nothing to myself and all things to every man. That being bliss."

As the bowman spoke, a bullet kicked up a cloud of dust at his feet.

"Holà, by my hilt! it is time that we were stirring," he said. "Leave these fellows to grovel
and remove yourself. Follow: who follows Nigel de Gamelyn?" He hitched up his belt and strode
forward with his great bow, and Tim saw him send a shaft with a twanging noise five hundred
and thirty paces. One of the German officers, towering above the other men, stood out distinctly,
and then he dropped.

"I'd like to take a look at that knave," the bowman remarked, drawing a fresh arrow from his
sheaf. "By the twang of string! I'll swear I drilled him clean between his eyes."

The enemy were getting closer now, and from the men lying around them broke a violent fusillade.
It was quite useless, but it relieved their nerves. Some were discharging their shots into
the turf a few yards in front of them. Others were shooting at aeroplanes.

Then suddenly there came upon Tim a great anger. A bullet striking him brought him to his senses,
and he saw the men sprawling belly-flat about him. This was not war, this ignominious crawling,
this grovelling in the soil, this halting! The spirit of his fathers spoke to him. He remembered
one of his father's favourite sayings: "The duty of a man of the line is to fight, and if needs
be, die, not to avoid dying." His anger grew--"damn them for a pack of cringing, footling cowards:
he, Tim Gamelyn, descendant of the De Gamelyns who fought in a hundred battles, would teach
them how men of his father's house went into battle."

A senior officer called on those nearest to Tim to advance. And men rose up.

"D. Company, fix bayonets! Close in!" came the order. Tim gripped his sword and strode over
to the Bowman. Then the advancing Germans poured a blasting volley on them.

"The Old Battalion--charge!" came the stentorian voice of a senior. The men scrambled to their
feet, and Tim following the Bowman sprang ahead of the Battalion. The men leapt across the
blood-smeared grass after them with the speed of a winged fury, but they struck the Germans
a dozen yards ahead of the battalion. The bowman had hurled aside his long bow and was using
a short battle mace with terrific effect. As for Tim: all he wanted to do was to slash; stab
and slash again with that wonderful sword. There followed a nightmare of drawn, grinning faces,
of fierce yells and groans. The mud-stained grey figures struck at him wildly, futilely. On
and on Tim went, his glittering blade now at a white face, now at a throat, now at a chest,
still stabbing and thrusting to pass through the wall of men which barred his way.

The man with the bow ranged up alongside him: "On, man, on, in the name of God, march forward....
By St. George and Our Lady! we are breaking up their front;" he muttered.

"Strike me crimson!" bellowed a man near to Tim, "but you're a blooming marvel! Those German
beggars are going down for twenty yards around your (decorated) sword without being hit at
all. Look! Look! there goes another Hun down. Let me come over near you, mate!"

But Tim knew that De Gamelyn the Bowman had summoned to their help the armies of the unconquered
dead. They came, the De Gamelyns of all generations from Crécy to Waterloo: they fought by
his side, and the machine gun bullets, which fell upon the dusty earth like tropical rain,
hurt them not.

Again and again the Bowman's mace smashed and lashed out before him, and Tim thrust, and thrust
yet again with his sword. He heard the deep-throated roar of the bowman's singing "The Song
of the Bow."

Suddenly a yell, horrible and fierce, uprose from the soldiers, and he heard the bowman's voice
no more.

