Montfauçon, Ducarel, and De La Rue, have come forward successively--but more especially the
first and last; and Montfauçon in particular has favored the world with copper-plate representations
of the whole.

THE CHATEAU OF HENRI IV. AT PAU[A]

[Footnote A: From "A Tour Through the Pyrenees." By special arrangement with, and by permission
of, the publishers, Henry Holt & Co. Copyright, 1873.]

BY HIPPOLYTE ADOLPHE TAINE

Pau is a pretty city, neat, of gay appearance; but the highway is paved with little round stones,
the side-walks with small sharp pebbles: so the horses walk on the heads of nails and foot-passengers
on the points of them. From Bordeaux to Toulouse such is the usage, such the pavement. At the
end of five minutes, your feet tell you in the most intelligible manner that you are two hundred
leagues away from Paris....

Here are the true countrymen of Henry IV. As to the pretty ladies in gauzy hats, whose swelling
and rustling robes graze the horns of the motionless oxen as they pass, you must not look at
them; they would carry your imagination back to the Boulevard de Gand, and you would have gone
two hundred leagues only to remain in the same place.

His château is very irregular; it is only when seen from the valley that any graces and harmony
can be found in it. Above two rows of pointed roofs and old houses, it stands out alone against
the sky and gazes upon the valley in the distance; two bell-turrets project from the front
toward the west; the oblong body follows, and two massive brick towers close the line with
their esplanades and battlements. It is connected with the city by a narrow old bridge, by
a broad modern one with the park, and the foot of its terrace is bathed by a dark but lovely
stream.

Near at hand, this arrangement disappears; a fifth tower upon the north side deranges the symmetry.
The great egg-shaped court is a mosaic of incongruous masonry; above the porch, a wall of pebbles
from the Gave, and of red bricks crossed like a tapestry design; opposite, fixt to the wall,
a row of medallions in stone; upon the sides, doors of every form and age; dormer windows,
windows square, pointed, embattled, with stone mullions garlanded with elaborate reliefs. This
masquerade of styles troubles the mind, yet not unpleasantly; it is unpretending and artless;
each century has built according to its own fancy, without concerning itself about its neighbor.

On the first floor is shown a great tortoise-shell, which was the cradle of Henry IV. Carved
chests, dressing-tables, tapestries, clocks of that day, the bed and arm-chair of Jeanne d'Albret,
a complete set of furniture in the taste of the Renaissance, striking and somber, painfully
labored yet magnificent in style, carrying the mind at once back toward that age of force and
effort, of boldness in invention, of unbridled pleasures and terrible toil, of sensuality and
of heroism. Jeanne d'Albret, mother of Henry IV., crossed France in order that she might, according
to her promise, be confined in this castle. "A princess," says D'Aubigné, "having nothing of
the woman about her but the sex, a soul entirely given to manly things, a mind mighty in great
affairs, a heart unconquerable by adversity."

She sang an old Bearnaise song when she brought him into the world. They say that the aged
grandfather rubbed the lips of the new-born child with a clove of garlic, poured into his mouth
a few drops of Jurançon wine, and carried him away in his dressing-gown. The child was born
in the chamber which opens into the lower tower of Mazères, on the southwest corner.

His mother, a warm and severe Calvinist, when he was fifteen years old, led him through the
Catholic army to La Rochelle, and gave him to her followers as their general. At sixteen years
old, at the combat of Arnay-le-Duc, he led the first charge of cavalry. What an education and
what men! Their descendants were just now passing in the streets, going to school to compose
Latin verses and recite the pastorals of Massillon. You walk in long solitary alleys, under
colonnades of superb oaks, while to the left the lofty stems of the copses mount in close ranks
upon the back of the hill. The fog was not yet lifted; there was no motion in the air; not
a corner of the blue sky, not a sound in all the country. The song of a bird came for an instant
from the midst of the ash-trees, then sadly ceased. Is that then the sky of the south, and
was it necessary to come to the happy country of the Béarnais to find such melancholy impressions?
A little by-way brought us to a bank of the Gave: in a long pool of water was growing an army
of reeds twice the height of a man; their grayish spikes and their trembling leaves bent and
whispered under the wind; a wild flower near by shed a vanilla perfume.

We gazed on the broad country, the ranges of rounded hills, the silent plain under the dull
dome of the sky. Three hundred paces away the Gave rolls between marshaled banks, which it
has covered with sand; in the midst of the waters may be seen the moss-grown piles of a ruined
bridge. One is at ease here, and yet at the bottom of the heart a vague unrest is felt; the
soul is softened and loses itself in melancholy and tender revery. Suddenly the clock strikes,
and one is forced to go and prepare himself to eat his soup between two commercial travelers.

To-day the sun shines. On my way to the Place Nationale, I remarked a poor, half-ruined church,
which had been turned into a coach-house; they have fastened upon it a carrier's sign. The
arcades, in small gray stones, still round themselves with an elegant boldness; beneath are
stowed away carts and casks and pieces of wood; here and there workmen were handling wheels.
A broad ray of light fell upon a pile of straw, and made the somber corners seem yet darker;
the pictures that one meets with outweigh those one has come to seek.

From the esplanade which is opposite, the whole valley and the mountains beyond may be seen;
this first sight of a southern sun, as it breaks from the rainy mists, is admirable; a sheet
of white light stretches from one horizon to another without meeting a single cloud. The heart
expands in this immense space; the very air is festal; the dazzled eyes close beneath the brightness
which deluges them and which runs over, radiated from the burning dome of heaven. The current
of the river sparkles like a girdle of jewels; the chains of hills, yesterday veiled and damp,
extend at their own sweet will beneath the warming, penetrating rays, and mount range upon
range to spread out their green robe to the sun.

In the distance, the blue Pyrenees look like a bank of clouds; the air that bathes them shapes
them into aërial forms, vapory phantoms, the farthest of which vanish in the canescent horizon--dim
contours, that might be taken for a fugitive sketch from the lightest of pencils. In the midst
of the serrate chain the peak Midi d' Ossau lifts its abrupt cone; at this distance, forms
are softened, colors are blended, the Pyrenees are only the graceful bordering of a smiling
landscape and of the magnificent sky. There is nothing imposing about them nor severe; the
beauty here is serene, and the pleasure pure.

The statue of Henry IV., with an inscription in Latin and in patois, is on the esplanade; the
armor is finished so perfectly that it might make an armorer jealous. But why does the king
wear so sad an air? His neck is ill at ease on his shoulders; his features are small and full
of care; he has lost his gayety, his spirit, his confidence in his fortune, his proud bearing.
His air is neither that of a great nor a good man, nor of a man of intellect; his face is discontented,
and one would say that he was bored with Pau. I am not sure that he was wrong: and yet the
city passes for agreeable, the climate is very mild, and invalids who fear the cold pass the
winter in it.

CHATEAUX IN THE VALLEY OF THE LOIRE[A]

[Footnote A: From "Outre-Mer." Published by Houghton, Mifflin Co.]

BY HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW

In the beautiful month of October I made a foot excursion along the banks of the Loire, from
Orléans to Tours. This luxuriant region is justly called the garden of France. From Orléans
to Blois, the whole valley of the Loire is one continued vineyard. The bright green foliage
of the vine spreads, like the undulations of the sea, over the landscape, with here and there
a silver flash of the river, a sequestered hamlet, or the towers of an old chateau, to enliven
and variegate the scene.

The vintage had already commenced. The peasantry were busy in the fields--the song that cheered
their labor was on the breeze, and the heavy wagon tottered by, laden with the clusters of
the vine. Everything around me wore that happy look which makes the heart glad. In the morning
I arose with the lark; and at night I slept where the sunset overtook me.... My first day's
journey brought me at evening to a village, whose name I have forgotten, situated about eight
leagues from Orléans. It is a small, obscure hamlet, not mentioned in the guide-book, and stands
upon the precipitous banks of a deep ravine, through which a noisy brook leaps to turn the
ponderous wheel of a thatch-roofed mill. The village inn stands upon the highway; but the village
itself is not visible to the traveler as he passes. It is completely hidden in the lap of a
wooded valley, and so embowered in trees that not a roof nor a chimney peeps out to betray
its hiding-place.

When I awoke in the morning, a brilliant autumnal sun was shining in at my window. The merry
song of birds mingled sweetly with the sound of rustling leaves and the gurgle of the brook.
The vintagers were going forth to their toil; the wine-press was busy in the shade, and the
clatter of the mill kept time to the miller's song. I loitered about the village with a feeling
of calm delight. I was unwilling to leave the seclusion of this sequestered hamlet; but at
length, with reluctant step, I took the cross-road through the vineyard, and in a moment the
little village had sunk again, as if by enchantment, into the bosom of the earth.

I breakfasted at the town of Mer; and, leaving the high-road to Blois on the right, passed
down to the banks of the Loire, through a long, broad avenue of poplars and sycamores. I crossed
the river in a boat, and in the after part of the day I found myself before the high and massive
walls of the château of Chambord. This château is one of the finest specimens of the ancient
Gothic castle to be found in Europe. The little river Cosson fills its deep and ample moat,
and above it the huge towers and heavy battlements rise in stern and solemn grandeur, moss-grown
with age, and blackened by the storms of three centuries. Within, all is mournful and deserted.
The grass has overgrown the pavement of the courtyard, and the rude sculpture upon the walls
is broken and defaced....

My third day's journey brought me to the ancient city of Blois, the chief town of the department
of Loire-et-Cher. This city is celebrated for the purity with which even the lower classes
of its inhabitants speak their native tongue. It rises precipitously from the northern bank
of the Loire; and many of its streets are so steep as to be almost impassable for carriages.
On the brow of the hill, overlooking the roofs of the city, and commanding a fine view of the
Loire and its noble bridge, and the surrounding country, sprinkled with cottages and châteaux,
runs an ample terrace, planted with trees, and laid out as a public walk. The view from this
terrace is one of the most beautiful in France. But what most strikes the eye of the traveler
at Blois is an old, tho still unfinished, castle. Its huge parapets of hewn stone stand upon
either side of the street; but they have walled up the wide gateway, from which the colossal
drawbridge was to have sprung high in air, connecting together the main towers of the building,
and the two hills upon whose slope its foundations stand. The aspect of this vast pile is gloomy
and desolate. It seems as if the strong hand of the builder had been arrested in the midst
of his task by the stronger hand of death; and the unfinished fabric stands a lasting monument
both of the power and weakness of man--of his vast desires, his sanguine hopes, his ambitious
purposes--and of the unlooked-for conclusion, where all these desires, and hopes, and purposes
are so often arrested. There is also at Blois another ancient château, to which some historic
interest is attached as being the scene of the massacre of the Duke of Guise.

On the following day, I left Blois for Amboise; and, after walking several leagues along the
dusty highway, crossed the river in a boat to the little village of Moines, which lies amid
luxuriant vineyards upon the southern bank of the Loire. From Moines to Amboise the road is
truly delightful. The rich lowland scenery, by the margin of the river, is verdant even in
October; and occasionally the landscape is diversified with the picturesque cottages of the
vintagers, cut in the rock along the road-side, and overhung by the thick foliage of the vines
above them.

At Amboise I took a cross-road, which led me to the romantic borders of the Cher and the château
of Chenonceau. This beautiful château, as well as that of Chambord, was built by the gay and
munificent Francis the First. One is a specimen of strong and massive architecture--a dwelling
for a warrior; but the other is of a lighter and more graceful construction, and was designed
for those soft languishments of passion with which the fascinating Diane de Poitiers had filled
the bosom of that voluptuous monarch.

The château of Chenonceau is built upon arches across the river Cher, whose waters are made
to supply the deep moat at each extremity. There is a spacious courtyard in front, from which
a drawbridge conducts to the outer hall of the castle. There the armor of Francis the First
still hangs upon the wall--his shield, and helm, and lance--as if the chivalrous but dissolute
prince had just exchanged them for the silken robes of the drawing-room.... Doubtless the naked
walls and the vast solitary chambers of an old and desolate château inspire a feeling of greater
solemnity and awe; but when the antique furniture of the olden time remains--the faded tapestry
on the walls, and the arm-chair by the fire-side--the effect upon the mind is more magical
and delightful. The old inhabitants of the place, long gathered to their fathers, tho living
still in history, seem to have left their halls for the chase or the tournament; and as the
heavy door swings upon its reluctant hinge, one almost expects to see the gallant princes and
courtly dames enter those halls again, and sweep in stately procession along the silent corridors....

A short time after candle-lighting, I reached the little tavern of the Boule d'Or, a few leagues
from Tours, where I passed the night. The following morning was lowering and sad. A veil of
mist hung over the landscape, and ever and anon a heavy shower burst from the overburdened
clouds, that were driving by before a high and piercing wind. This unpropitious state of the
weather detained me until noon, when a cabriolet for Tours drove up, and taking a seat within
it, I left the hostess of the Boule d'Or in the middle of a long story about a rich countess,
who always alighted there when she passed that way. We drove leisurely along through a beautiful
country, till at length we came to the brow of a steep hill, which commands a fine view of
the city of Tours and its delightful environs. But the scene was shrouded by the heavy drifting
mist, through which I could trace but indistinctly the graceful sweep of the Loire, and the
spires and roofs of the city far below me.

The city of Tours and the delicious plain in which it lies have been too often described by
other travelers to render a new description, from so listless a pen as mine, either necessary
or desirable. After a sojourn of two cloudy and melancholy days, I set out on my return to
Paris, by the way of Vendôme and Chartres. I stopt a few hours at the former place, to examine
the ruins of a château built by Jeanne d'Albret, mother of Henry the Fourth. It stands upon
the summit of a high and precipitous hill, and almost overhangs the town beneath. The French
Revolution has completed the ruin that time had already begun; and nothing now remains, but
a broken and crumbling bastion, and here and there a solitary tower dropping slowly to decay.
In one of these is the grave of Jeanne d'Albret. A marble entablature in the wall above contains
the inscription, which is nearly effaced, tho enough still remains to tell the curious traveler
that there lies buried the mother of the "Bon Henri." To this is added a prayer that the repose
of the dead may be respected.

Here ended my foot excursion. The object of my journey was accomplished; and, delighted with
this short ramble through the valley of the Loire, I took my seat in the diligence for Paris,
and on the following day was again swallowed up in the crowds of the metropolis, like a drop
in the bosom of the sea.

AMBOISE[A]

[Footnote A: From "Old Touraine." Published by James Pott & Co.]

BY THEODORE ANDREA COOK

The Castle of Amboise stands high above the town, like another Acropolis above a smaller Athens;
it rises upon the only height visible for some distance, and is in a commanding position for
holding the level fields of Touraine around it, and securing the passage of the Loire between
Tours and Chaumont, which is the next link in the chain that ends at Blois.

The river at this point is divided in two by an island, as is so often the case where the first
bridge-builders sought to join the wide banks of the Loire, and on this little spot between
the waters Clovis is said to have met Alaric before he overthrew the power of the Visigoths
in Aquitaine.

Amboise gains even more from the river than the other châteaux of the Loire. The magnificent
round tower that springs from the end of Charles VIII.'s façade completely commands the approaches
of the bridge, and the extraordinary effect of lofty masonry, produced by building on the summit
of an elevation and carrying the stone courses upward from the lower ground, is here seen at
its best....

But Amboise has a history before the days of Charles VIII. There was without doubt a Roman
camp here, but the traditions of the ubiquitous Caesar must be received with caution. The so-called
"Greniers de Caesar," strange, unexplained constructions caverned in the soft rock, are proved
to be the work of a later age by that same indefatigable Abbé Chevalier to whom we have been
already indebted for so much archeological research. A possible explanation of them is contained
in an old Latin history of the castle, which goes down to the death of Stephen of England.
According to this, the Romans had held Amboise from the days of Caesar till the reign of Diocletian;
the Baugaredi or Bagaudee then put them to flight, but let the rest of the inhabitants remain
who, "being afraid to live above ground, tunnelled beneath it, and made a great colony of subterranean
dwellings in the holes they had dug out," a custom apparently common in Touraine from the earliest
times. The Romans at any rate left unmistakable traces of their presence; many of their architectural
remains still exist, and their fort is spoken of by Sulpicius Severus; but they can have built
no bridge of alone, for in St. Gregory's time there were only boats available for crossing
the river.

Not till the fifteenth century did the castle become royal property, when it was confiscated
by Charles VII. as a punishment for treacherous dealings with the invading English very similar
to the treason discovered at Chenonceaux just before. But beyond strengthening the fortification
of the place this king did little for his new possession.

In a few years the castle is overshadowed by the cruel specter of Louis XI., whose memory has
already spoiled several charming views for us. It was to Amboise that the father of this unfilial
prince was carried from Chinon on his way north, when wearied out by the annoyance caused by
the Dauphin's plots. The castle had become a royal residence, and soon after the whole town
turns out to meet the new king with a "morality-play made by Master Étienne for the joyous
occasion of his arrival," for Amboise was already famous for those dramatic performances always
so dear to the French, and particularly to these citizens, in the old days at any rate. There
is no trace of such frivolities now in the sleepy little town....

The two great towers of Amboise with the inclined planes of brickwork, which wind upward in
the midst instead of staircases, were the result of the work which Charles set on foot as a
distraction of his grief. These strange ascents had been partially restored by the Comte de
Paris, the present owner of Amboise, before his exile stopt the work of repairing the chateau,
and it is still possible to imagine the "charrettes, mullets, et litières," of which Du Bellay
speaks, mounting from the low ground to the chambers above, or the Emperor Charles V., in later
years, riding up with his royal host Francis I., always fond of display, amid such a blaze
of flambeaux "that a man might see as clearly as at mid-day."

These great towers and the exquisite little chapel were the work of the "excellent sculptors
and artists from Naples" who, as Commines tells us, were brought back with the spoils of the
Italian wars; for the young king "never thought of death" but only of collecting round him
"all the beautiful things which he had seen and which had given him pleasure, from France or
Italy or Flanders;" but death came upon him suddenly. At the end of a garden walk, fringed
with a mossy grove of limes that rises from the river bank, is the little doorway through which
Charles VIII. was passing when he hit his head, never a very strong one, against the low stone
arch, and died a few hours afterward. The castle had been fortified before his time; he left
it beautiful as well, and the traces of his work are those which are most striking at the present
day....

Within the shadow of the lime trees on the terraced garden of Amboise is a small bust of Leonardo
da Vinci, for it was near here he died. His remains are laid in the beautiful chapel at the
corner of the castle court, and the romantic story of his last moments at Fontainebleau becomes
the sad reality of a tombstone covering ashes mostly unknown and certainly indistinguishable;
"among which" as the epitaph painfully records, "are supposed to be the remains of Leonardo
da Vinci." He had been brought to Paris a weak old man, by Francis, in pursuance of a certain
fixt artistic policy, to which it may be noticed this forgotten and uncertain grave does but
little credit.

To Francis I., rightly or wrongly, is given the glory of having naturalized in France the arts
of Italy; to him is due the architecture built for ease and charm which turned the fortress
into a beautiful habitation, which changed Chambord from a feudal stronghold to a country seat,
and which left its traces at Amboise, as it did at Chaumont and at Blois. He found in France
the highest and most beautiful expression of the work of "the great unnamed race of master-masons,"
he found the traditions of a national school of painting, the work of Fouquet and the Clouets,
but for these he cared not; for him the only schools were those of Rome and Florence, and tho
by encouraging their imitation he weakened the vital sincerity of French art, yet from his
first exercise of royal power the consistency always somewhat lacking in his politics was shown
clearly and firmly in his taste for art.

BLOIS[A]

[Footnote A: From "Castles and Chateaux of Old Touraine." By special arrangement with, and
by permission of, the publishers, L.C. Page & Co. Copyright, 1908.]

BY FRANCIS MILTOUN

Blois, among all the other cities of the Loire, is the favorite with the tourist. Here one
first meets a great château of state; and certainly the Château de Blois lives in one's memory
more than any other château in France.

Much has been written of Blois, its counts, its château, and its many and famous hôtels of
the nobility, by writers of all opinions and abilities, from those old chroniclers who wrote
of the plots and intrigues of other days to those critics of art and architecture who have
discovered--or think they have discovered--that Da Vinci designed the famous spiral staircase.

From this one may well gather that Blois is the foremost château of all the Loire in popularity
and theatrical effect. Truly this is so, but it is by no manner of means the most lovable;
indeed, it is the least lovable of all that great galaxy which begins at Blois and ends at
Nantes. It is a show-place and not much more, and partakes in every form and feature--as one
sees it to-day--of the attributes of a museum, and such it really is.

All of its former gorgeousness is still there, and all the banalities of the later period when
Gaston of Orleans built his ugly wing, for the "personally conducted" to marvel at, and honeymoon
couples to envy. The French are quite fond of visiting this shrine themselves, but usually
it is the young people and their mammas, and detached couples of American and English birth
that one most sees strolling about the courts and apartments where formerly lords and ladies
and cavaliers moved and plotted.

The great château of the Counts of Blois is built upon an inclined rock which rises above the
roof-tops of the lower town quite in fairy-book fashion. Commonly referred to as the Château
de Blois, it is really composed of four separate and distinct foundations; the original château
of the counts; the later addition of Louis XII.; the palace of Francis I., and the most unsympathetically
and dismally disposed pavilion of Gaston of Orleans.

The artistic qualities of the greater part of the distinct edifice which go to make up the
château as it stands to-day are superb, with the exception of that great wing of Gaston's,
before mentioned, which is as cold and unfeeling as the overrated palace at Versailles.

The Comtes de Chatillon built that portion just to the right of the present entrance; Louis
XII., the edifice through which one enters the inner court and which extends far to the left,
including also the chapel immediately to the rear; while François I., who here as elsewhere
let his unbounded Italian proclivities have full sway, built the extended wing to the left
of the inner court and fronting on the present Place du Château, formerly the Place Royale....

As an architectural monument the château is a picturesque assemblage of edifices belonging
to many different epochs, and, as such, shows, as well as any other document of contemporary
times, the varying ambitions and emotions of its builders, from the rude and rough manners
of the earliest of feudal times through the highly refined Renaissance details of the imaginative
brain of François, down to the base concoction of the elder Mansart, produced at the commands
of Gaston of Orleans.

In the earliest structure were to be seen all the attributes of a feudal fortress, towers and
walls pierced with narrow loopholes, and damp, dark dungeons hidden away in the thick walls.
Then came a structure which was less of a fortress and more habitable, but still a stronghold,
tho having ample and decorative doorways and windows, with curious sculptures and rich framings.
Then the pompous Renaissance with "escaliers" and "balcons á jour," balustrades crowning the
walls and elaborate cornices here, there, and everywhere--all bespeaking the gallantry and
taste of the knightly king. Finally came the cold, classic features of the period of the brother
of Louis XIII.

In plan the Château de Bois forms an irregular square situated at the apex of a promontory
high above the surface of the Loire, and practically behind the town itself. The building has
a most picturesque aspect, and, to those who know, gives practically a history of the château
architecture of the time. Abandoned, mutilated and dishonored, from time to time, the structure
gradually took on new forms until the thick walls underlying the apartment known to-day as
the Salle des États--probably the most ancient portion of all--were overshadowed by the great
richness of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries.

From the platform one sees a magnificent panorama of the city and the far-reaching Loire, which
unrolls itself southward and northward for many leagues, its banks covered by rich vineyards
and crowned by thick forests.

The building of Louis XII. presents its brick-faced exterior in black and red lozenge shapes,
with sculptured window-frames, squarely upon the little tree-bordered place of to-day, which
in other times formed a part of that magnificent terrace which looked down upon the roof of
the Église St. Nicholas, and the Jesuit church of the Immaculate Conception, and the silvery
bell of the Loire itself.

The murders and other acts of violence and treason which took place here are interesting enough,
but one can not but feel, when he views the chimney-piece before which the Due de Guise was
standing when called to his death in the royal closet, that the men of whom the bloody tales
of Blois are told quite deserved their fates.

One comes away with the impression of it all stamped only upon the mind, not graven upon the
heart. Political intrigue to-day, if quite as vulgar, is less sordid. Bigotry and ambition
in those days allowed few of the finer feelings to come to the surface, except with regard
to the luxuriance of surroundings. Of this last there can be no question, and Blois is as characteristically
luxurious as any of the magnificient edifices which lodged the royalty and nobility of other
days throughout the valley of the Loire.

The interior court is partly surrounded by a colonnade, quite cloister-like in effect. At the
right center of the François I. wing is that wonderful spiral staircase, concerning the invention
of which so much speculation has been launched.

The apartments of Catherine de Medici were directly beneath the guard-room where the Balafré
was murdered, and that event, taking place at the very moment when the queen-mother was dying,
can not be said to have been conducive to a peaceful demise.

Here, on the first floor of the François I. wing, the queen-mother, held her court, as did
the king his. The great gallery over-looked the town on the side of the present Place du Château.
It was, and is, a truly grand apartment, with diamond-paned windows, and rich, dark wall decorations
on which Catherine's device, a crowned C and her monogram in gold, frequently appears. There
was, moreover, a great oval window, opposite which stood her altar, and a doorway led to her
writing-closet, with its secret drawers and wall panels, which well served her purpose of intrigue
and deceit.

A hidden stair-way led to the floor above, and there was a chambre-à-coucher, with a deep recess
for the bed, the same to which she called her son Henri, as she lay dying, admonishing him
to give up the thought of murdering Guise. "What," said Henri, on this embarrassing occasion,
"spare Guise, when he, triumphant in Paris, dared lay his hand on the hilt of his sword. Spare
him who drove me a fugitive from the capital. Spare them who never spared me. No, mother, I
will not."

As the queen-mother drew near her end, and was lying ill at Blois, great events for France
were culminating at the château. Henry III. had become King of France, and the Balafré, supported
by Rome and Spain, was in open rebellion against the reigning house, and the word had gone
forth that the Duc de Guise must die.

The States-General were to be immediately assembled, and De Guise, once the poetic lover of
Marguerite, through his emissaries canvassed all France to ensure the triumph of the party
of the church against Henri de Navarre and his queen--the Marguerite whom De Guise once profest
to love--who soon were to come to the throne of France.

The uncomfortable Henri III. had been told that he would never be king in reality until De
Guise had been made away with.

The final act of the drama between the rival houses of Guise and Valois came when the king
and his council came to Blois for the assembly. The sunny city of Blois was indeed to be the
scene of a momentous affair, and a truly sumptuous setting it was, the roof-tops of its houses
sloping downward gently to the Loire, with its chief accessory, the coiffed and turreted chateau
itself, high above all else.

Details had been arranged with infinite pains, the guard doubled, and a company of Swiss posted
around the courtyard and up and down the gorgeous staircase. Every nook and corner has its
history in connection with this greatest event in the history of the château of Blois.

As Guise entered the council chamber he was told that the king would see him in his closet,
to reach which one had to pass through the guard-room below. The door was barred behind him
that he might not return, when the trusty guards of the Forty-fifth, under Dalahaide, already
hidden behind the wall-tapestry, sprang upon the Balafré and forced him back upon the closed
door through which he had just passed. Guise fell stabbed in the breast by Malines, and "lay
long uncovered until an old carpet was found in which to wrap his corpse."

Below, in her own apartments, lay the queen-mother, dying, but listening eagerly for the rush
of footsteps overhead, hoping and praying that Henri--the hitherto effeminate Henri who played
with his sword as he would with a battledore, and who painted himself like a woman, and put
rings in his ears--would not prejudice himself at this time in the eyes of Rome by slaying
the leader of the church party....

It was under the régime of Gaston d'Orléans that the gardens of the Château de Blois came to
their greatest excellence and beauty. In 1653, Abel Brunyer, the first physician of Gaston's
suite, published a catalog of the fruit and flowers to be found here in these gardens, of which
he was also director. More than five hundred varieties were included, three-quarters of which
belonged to the flora of France.

Among the delicacies and novelties of the time to be found here was the Prunier de Reine Claude,
from which those delicious green plums known to all the world to-day as "Reine Claudes" were
propagated, also another variety which came from the Prunier de Monsieur, somewhat similar
in taste, but of a deep purple color. The potato was tenderly cared for and grown as a great
novelty and delicacy long before its introduction to general cultivation by Parmentier. The
tomato was imported from Mexico, and even tobacco was grown....

In 1793 all the symbols and emblems of royalty were removed from the château and destroyed.
The celebrated bust of Gaston, the chief artistic attribute of that part of the edifice built
by him, was decapitated, and the statue of Louis XII. over the entrance gateway was overturned
and broken up. Afterward the château became the property of the "domaine" and was turned into
a mere barracks. The pavilion of Queen Anne became a military magazine, the Tour de l'Observatoire,
a powder-magazine, and all the indignities imaginable were heaped upon the château.

In 1814 Blois became the last capital of Napoleon's empire, and the château walls sheltered
the prisoners captured by the imperial army.

For some distance the rails of a small tramway followed the road by which our carriage was
slowly rolling toward the level plains of the Cologne, but we gradually left such uncompromising
signs of activity, and came into a flat country of endless vineyards, with here and there a
small plaster tower showing its slated roof above the low green clusters of the vines. We passed
through several villages, whose inhabitants that day seemed to have but one care upon their
minds, like the famous Scilly Islanders, to gain a precarious livelihood by taking each other's
washing. On every bush and briar fluttered the household linen and the family apparel, of various
textures and in different states of despair; and with that strict observance of utility which
is the chief characteristic of the French peasant, the inevitable blouses, of faded blue were
blown into shapeless bundles even along the railings of the churchyard tombs.

At last we came to an old moss-grown wall, and through a broken gateway entered what is called
the Park of Chambord. There is very little of it to be seen now, the trees have been ruthlessly
cut down and mutilated, and of the wild boars, which Francis I. was so fond of hunting there
is left only the ghostly quarry that Thibault of Champagne chases through the air, while the
sound of his ghostly horn echoes down the autumn night as the fantom pack sweeps by to Montfrault.

It is impossible for the uninstructed mind to grasp the plan or method of this mass of architecture;
yet it is unsatisfactory to give it up, with Mr. Henry James, "as an irresponsible, insoluble
labyrinth." M. Viollet-le-Duc, with a sympathetic denial of any extreme and over-technical
admiration, gives just that intelligible account of the château which is a compromise between
the unmeaning adulation of its contemporary critics and the ignorance of the casual traveler.

"Chambord," says he, "must be taken for what it is; for an attempt in which the architect sought
to reconcile the methods of two opposite principles, to unite in one building the fortified
castle of the Middle Ages and the pleasure-palace of the sixteenth century." Granted that the
attempt was an absurd one, it must be remembered that the Renaissance was but just beginning
in France; Gothic art seemed out of date, yet none other had established itself to take its
place. In literature, in morals, as in architecture, this particular phase in the civilization
of the time has already become evident even in the course of these small wanderings in a single
province, and if only this transition period is realized in all its meaning, with all the "monstrous
and inform" characteristics that were inevitably a part of it, the mystery of this strange
sixteenth century in France is half explained, of this "glorious devil, large in heart and
brain, that did love beauty only" and would have it somewhere, somehow, at whatever cost.

Francis I. had passed his early years at Cognac, at Amboise, or Romorantin, and when he first
saw Chambord it was only the old feudal manor-house built by the Counts of Blois. He transformed
it, not by the help of Primaticcio, with whose name it is tempting to associate any building
of this king's, for the methods of contemporary Italian architecture were totally different;
but, as Mr. de la Saussaye proves, by the skill of that fertile school of art particularly
of one Maitre Pierre Trinqueau, or Le Nepveu, whose name is connected with more successful
buildings at Amboise and Blois. The plan is that of the true French château; in the center
is the habitation of the seigneur and his family, flanked by four angle towers; on three sides
is a court closed by buildings, also with towers at each angle, and like most feudal dwellings
the central donjon has one of its sides on the exterior of the whole ...

It may well be imagined that Chambord is the parody of the old castles, just as the Abbey of
Thélème parodies the abbeys of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. Both heaped a fatal ridicule
upon the bygone age, but what Rabelais could only dream Francis could realize, yet not with
the unfettered perfection that was granted to the vision of Gargantua; for surely never was
the spirit of the time, seized and smitten into incongruous shapes of stone at so unfortunate
a moment, just when the old Renaissance was striving to take upon itself the burden which was
too heavy for the failing Gothic spirit, just when success was coming, but had not yet come.

It is only from within the court, where the great towers fling their shadows over the space,
where pinnacles and gables soar into the air, and strange gargoyles and projectures shoot from
the darkness into light, that it is possible to realize the admiration which Chambord roused
when it was first created. Brantôme waxes enthusiastic over its wonders, and describes how
the king had drawn up plans (mercifully never carried out) to divert the waters of the Loire
to his new palace, not content with the slender stream of Cosson, from which the place derived
its name. Others compare it to a palace put of the Arabian Nights raised at the Prince's bidding
by a Genie, or like Lippomano, the Venetian ambassador, to "the abode of Morgana or Alcinous";
but this topheavy barrack is anything rather than a "fairy monument"; it might with as much
humor be called a "souvenir of first loves," as M. de la Saussaye has it. Both descriptions
fit Chenonceaux admirably; when used of Chambord they are out of place. The houses of the village
are not very new, nor very old, but the one long street is most attractive throughout its length,
and the whole atmosphere of the place, from September to December, is odorous with the perfume
of red and purple grapes. The vintage is not equal to that of the Bordeaux region, perhaps,
nor of Chinon, nor Saumur, but "vin du pays" of the Cher and the Loire, around Tours, is not
to be despised.

Most tourists come to Chenonceaux by train from Tours; others drive over from Amboise, and
yet others come by bicycle or automobile. They are not as yet so numerous as might be expected,
and accordingly here, as elsewhere in Touraine, every facility is given for visiting the château
and its park.

If you do not hurry off at once to worship at the abode of the fascinating Diane, one of the
brightest ornaments of the court of François I. and his son Henri, you will enjoy your dinner
at the Hôtel du Bon Laboureur, tho most likely it will be a solitary one, and you will be put
to bed in a great chamber over-looking the park, through which peep, in the moonlight, the
turrets of the château, and you may hear the purling of the waters of the Cher as it flows
below the walls.

Jean Jacques Rousseau, like François I., called Chenonceaux a beautiful place, and he was right.
It is all of that and more. Here one comes into direct contact with an atmosphere which, if
not feudal, or even medieval, is at least that of several hundred years ago.

Chenonceaux is moored like a ship in the middle of the rapidly running Cher, a dozen miles
or more above where that stream enters the Loire. As a matter of fact, the château practically
bridges the river, which flows under its foundations and beneath its drawbridge on either side,
besides filling the moat with water. The general effect is as if the building were set in the
midst of a stream and formed a sort of island château. Round about is a gentle meadow and a
great park, which gives to this turreted, architectural gem of Touraine a setting equalled
by no other château.

What the château was in former days we can readily imagine, for nothing is changed as to the
general disposition. Boats came to the water-gate, as they still might do if such boats still
existed, in true, pictorial legendary fashion. To-day the present occupant has placed a curiosity
on the ornamental waters in the shape of a gondola. It is out of keeping with the grand fabric
of the château, and it is a pity that it does not cast itself adrift some night. What has become
of the gondolier, who was imported to keep the craft company, nobody seems to know. He is certainly
not in evidence, or, if he is, has transformed himself into a groom or a chauffeur.

The château of Chenonceaux is not a very ample structure; not so ample as most photographs
would make it appear. It is not tiny, but still it has not the magnificent proportions of Blois,
of Chambord, or even of Langeais. It was more a habitation than it was a fortress, a country
house, as indeed it virtually became when the Connétable de Montmorency took possession of
the structure in the name of the king, when its builder, Thomas Bohier, the none too astute
minister of finance in Normandy, came to grief in his affairs.

Francis I came frequently here to hunt, and his memory is still kept alive by the Chambre François
I. François held possession till his death, when his son made it over to the "admired of two
generations," Diane de Poitiers.

Diane's memory will never leave Chenonceaux. To-day it is perpetuated in the Chambre de Diane
de Poitiers; but the portrait by Leonardo da Vinci, which was supposed to best show her charms,
has now disappeared from the Long Gallery at the château. This portrait was painted at the
command of François, before Diane transferred her affections to his son.

No one knows when or how Diane de Poitiers first came to fascinate François, or how or why
her power waned. At any rate at the time François pardoned her father, the witless Comte de
St. Vallier, for the treacherous part he played in the Bourbon conspiracy, he really believed
her to to be the "brightest ornament of a beauty-loving court."

Certainly, Diane was a powerful factor in the politics of her time, tho François himself soon
tired of her. Undaunted by this, she forthwith set her cap for his son Henri, the Duc d'Orléans,
and won him, too. Of her beauty the present generation is able to judge for itself by reason
of the three well-known and excellent portraits of contemporary times.

Diane's influence over the young Henri was absolute. At his death her power was, of course,
at an end and Chenonceaux, and all else possible, was taken from her by the orders of Catherine,
the long-suffering wife, who had been put aside for the fascinations of the charming huntress.

It must have been some satisfaction, however, to Diane, to know that, in his fatal joust with
Montgomery, Henri really broke his lance and met his death in her honor, for the records tell
that he bore her colors on his lance, besides her initials set in gold and gems on his shield.

Catherine's eagerness to drive Diane from the court was so great, that no sooner had her spouse
fallen--even tho he did not actually die for some days--than she sent word to Diane "who sat
weeping alone," to quit the court instantly; to give up the crown jewels--which Henri had somewhat
inconsiderately given her; and to "give up Chenonceaux in Touraine," Catherine's Naboth's vineyard,
which she had so long admired and coveted.

She had known it as a girl, when she often visited it in company with her father-in-law, the
appreciative but dissolute François, and had ever longed to possess it for her own, before
even her husband, now dead, had given it to "that old hag Diane de Poitiers, Duchesse de Valentinois."

Diane paid no heed to Catherine's command. She simply asked: "Is the king yet dead?"

"No, madame," said the messenger, "but his wound is mortal; he can not live the day."

"Tell the queen, then." replied Diane, "that her reign is not yet come; that I am mistress
still over her and the kingdom as long as the king breathes the breath of life."

The château of Chenonceaux, so greatly coveted by Catherine when she first came to France,
and when it was in the possession of Diane, still remains in all the regal splendor of its
past. It lies in the lovely valley of the Cher, far from the rush and turmoil of cities and
even the continuous traffic of great thoroughfares, for it is on the road to nowhere unless
one is journeying crosscountry from the lower to the upper Loire. This very isolation resulted
in its being one of the few monuments spared from the furies of the Revolution, and, "half-palace
and half-château," it glistens with the purity of its former glory, as picturesque as ever,
with turrets, spires, and roof-tops all mellowed with the ages in a most entrancing manner.

Even to-day one enters the precincts of the château proper over a drawbridge which spans an
arm of the Loire, or rather, a moat which leads directly from the parent stream. On the opposite
side are the bridge piers supporting five arches, the work of Diane when she was the fair chatelaine
of the domain. This ingenious thought proved to be a most useful and artistic addition to the
château. It formed a flagged promenade, lovely in itself, and led to the southern bank of the
Cher, whence one got charming vistas of the turrets and roof-tops of the château through the
trees and the leafy avenues which converged upon the structure.

When Catherine came she did not disdain to make the best use of Diane's innovation that suggested
itself to her, which was simply to build the Long Gallery over the arches of this lovely bridge,
and so make of it a veritable house over the water. A covering was made quite as beautiful
as the rest of the structure, and thus the bridge formed a spacious wing of two stories. The
first floor--known as the Long Gallery--was intended as a banqueting-hall, and possest four
great full-length windows on either side looking up and down the stream, from which was seen--and
is to-day--an outlook as magnificently idyllic as is possible to conceive. Jean Goujon had
designed for the ceiling one of those wonder-works for which he was famous, but if the complete
plan was ever carried out, it has disappeared, for only a tiny sketch of the whole scheme remains
to-day.

Catherine came in the early summer to take possession of her long-coveted domain. Being a skilful
horsewoman, she came on horseback, accompanied by a little band of feminine charmers destined
to wheedle political secrets from friends and enemies alike--a real "flying squadron of the
queen," as it was called by a contemporary.

It was a gallant company that assembled here at this time--the young King Charles IX., the
Duc de Guise, and the "two cardinals mounted on mules"--Lorraine, a true Guise, and D'Este,
newly arrived from Italy, and accompanied by the poet Tasso, wearing a "gabardine and a hood
of satin." Catherine showed the Italian great favor, as was due a countryman, but there was
another poet among them as well, Ronsard, the poet laureate of the time. The Duc de Guise had
followed in the wake of Marguerite, unbeknown to Catherine, who frowned down any possibility
of an alliance between the houses of Valois and Lorraine.

A great fête and water-masque had been arranged by Catherine to take place on the Cher, with
a banquet to follow in the Long Gallery in honor of her arrival at Chenonceaux.

When twilight had fallen, torches were ignited and myriads of lights blazed forth from the
boats on the river and from the windows of the château. Music and song went forth into the
night, and all was as gay and lovely as a Venetian night's entertainment. The hunting-horns
echoed through the wooded banks, and through the arches above which the château was built passed
great highly colored barges, including a fleet of gondolas to remind the queen-mother of her
Italian days--the ancestors perhaps of the solitary gondola which to-day floats idly by the
river-bank just before the grand entrance to the château. From parterre and balustrade, and
from the clipt yews of the ornamental garden, fairy lamps burned forth and dwindled away into
dim infinity, as the long lines of soft light gradually lost themselves in the forest. It was
a grand affair and idyllic in its unworldliness ...

Catherine bequeathed Chenonceaux to the wife of Henry III., Louise de Vaudémont, who died here
in 1601. For a hundred years it still belonged to royalty, but in 1730 it was sold to M. Dupin,
who, with his wife, enriched and repaired the fabric. They gathered around them a company so
famous as to be memorable in the annals of art and literature. This is best shown by the citing
of such names as Fontenelle, Montesquieu, Buffon, Bolingbroke, Voltaire, and Rousseau, all
of whom were frequenters of the establishment, the latter being charged with the education
of the Dupins' only son.

Chenonceaux to-day is no whited sepulcher. It is a real living and livable thing, and moreover,
when one visits it, he observes that the family burn great logs in their fireplaces, have luxurious
bouquets of flowers on their dining-table, and use wax candles instead of the more prosaic
oil-lamps, or worse--acetyline gas.

FOIX[A]

[Footnote A: From "Castles and Châteaux of Old Navarre." By special arrangement with, and by
permission of, the publishers, L.C. Page & Co. Copyright, 1907.]

BY FRANCIS MILTOUN

Above the swift flowing Ariège in their superb setting of mountain and forest are the towers
and parapets of the old château, in itself enough to make the name and fame of any city....
The actual age of the monument covers many epochs. The two square towers and the main edifice,
as seen to-day, are anterior to the thirteenth century, as is proved by the design in the seals
of the Comtes de Foix of 1215 and 1241 now in the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris. In the fourteenth
century these towers were strengthened and enlarged with the idea of making them more effective
for defense and habitation.

The escutcheons of Foix, Beam and Comminges, to be seen in the great central tower, indicate
that it, too, goes back at least to the end of the fourteenth century, when Eleanore de Comminges,
the mother of Gaston Phoebus, ruled the Comté. The donjon or Tour Ronde arises on the west
to a height of forty-two meters; and will be remarked by all familiar with these sermons in
stones scattered all over France as one of the most graceful. Legend attributes it to Gaston
Phoebus; but all authorities do not agree as to this. The window-and door-openings, the moldings,
the accolade over the entrance doorway, and the machicoulis all denote that they belong to
the latter half of the fifteenth century. These, however, may be later interpolations.

Originally one entered the château from exactly the opposite side from that used to-day. The
slope leading up to the rock and swinging around in front of the town is an addition of recent
years. Formerly the plateau was gained by a rugged path which finally entered the precincts
of the fortress through a rectangular barbican.

Finally, to sum it up, the pleasant, smiling, trim little city of Foix, and its château rising
romantically above it, form a delightful prospect. Well preserved, well protected and forever
free from further desecration, the château de Fois is as nobly impressive and glorious a monument
of the Middle Ages as may be found in France, as well as chief record of the gallant days of
the Comtes de Foix. Foix' Palais de Justice, built back to back with the rock foundation of
the château, is itself a singular piece of architecture containing a small collection of local
antiquities. This old Maison des Gouverneurs, now the Palais de Justice, is a banal, unlovely
thing, regardless of its high-sounding titles....

It was that great hunter and warrior, Gaston Phoebus, who gave the Château de Foix its greatest
lustre. It was here that this most brilliant and most celebrated of the counts passed his youth;
and it was from here that he set out on his famous expedition to aid his brother knights of
the Teutonic Order in Prussia. At Gaston's orders the Comte d'Armagnac was imprisoned here,
to be released after the payment of a heavy ransom. As to the motive for this particular act,
authorities differ as to whether it was the fortune of war or mere brigandage.

They lived high, the nobles of the old days, and Froissart recounts a banquet at which he had
assisted at Foix, in the sixteenth century, as follows:

"And this was what I saw in the Comté de Foix: The Comte left his chamber to sup at midnight,
the way to the great 'salle' being led by twelve varlets, bearing twelve illumined torches.
The great hall was crowded with knights and equerries, and those who would supped, saying nothing
meanwhile. Mostly game seemed to be the favorite viand, and the legs and wings only of fowl
were eaten. Music and chants were the invariable accompaniment and the company remained at
table until after two in the morning. Little or nothing was drunk."

V

VARIOUS FRENCH SCENES

MONT ST. MICHEL[A]

[Footnote A: From "In and Out of Three Normandy Inns."

It was impossible, after sojourning a certain time upon the hill, not to concede that there
were two equally strong centers of attraction that drew the world hitherward. Ships heavy with
white sails ascend slowly on both sides of the boat. At each gust of wind they incline like
idle birds, lifting their long wings and showing their black bellies. They run slantwise, then
come back; one would say that they felt the better for being in this great fresh-water harbor;
they loiter in it and enjoy its peace after leaving the wrath and inclemency of the ocean.

The banks, fringed with pale verdure, glide right and left, far away to the verge of heaven;
the river is broad like a sea; at this distance you might think you had seen two hedges; the
trees dimly lift their delicate shapes in a robe of bluish gauze; here and there great pines
raise their umbrellas on the vapory horizon, where all is confused and vanishing; there is
an inexpressible sweetness in these first hues of the timid day, softened still by the fog
which exhales from the deep river.

As for the river itself, its waters stretch out joyous and splendid; the rising sun pours upon
its breast a long streamlet of gold; the breeze covers it with scales; its eddies stretch themselves,
and tremble like an awaking serpent, and, when the billow heaves them, you seem to see the
striped flanks, the tawny cuirass of a leviathan.

Indeed, at such moments it seems that the water must live and feel; it has a strange look,
when it comes, transparent and somber, to stretch itself upon a beach of pebbles; it turns
about them as if uneasy and irritated; it beats them with its wavelets; it covers them, then
retires, then comes back again with a sort of languid writhing and mysterious lovingness; its
snaky eddies, its little crests suddenly beaten down or broken, its wave, sloping, shining,
then all at once blackened, resembles the flashes of passion in an impatient mother, who hovers
incessantly and anxiously about her children, and covers them, not knowing what she wants and
what fears.

Presently a cloud has covered the heavens, and the wind has risen. In a moment the river has
assumed the aspect of a crafty and savage animal. It hollowed itself, and showed its livid
belly; it came against the keel with convulsive starts, hugged it, and dashed against it, as
if to try its force; as far as one could see, its waves lifted themselves and crowded together,
like the muscles upon a chest; over the flank of the waves passed flashes with sinister smiles;
the mast groaned, and the trees bent shivering, like a nerveless crowd before the wrath of
a fearful beast. Then all was hushed; the sun had burst forth, the waves were smoothed, you
now see only a laughing expanse; spun out over this polished back a thousand greenish tresses
sported wantonly; the light rested on it, like a diaphanous mantle; it followed the supple
movements and the twisting of those liquid arms; it folded around them, behind them, its radiant,
azure robe; it took their caprices and their mobile colors; the river meanwhile, slumbrous
in its great, peaceful bed, was stretched out at the feet of the hills, which looked down upon
it, like it immovable and eternal.

The boat is made fast to a boom, under a pile of white houses; it is Royan. Here already are
the sea and the dunes; the right of the village is buried under a mass of sand; there are crumbling
hills, little dreary valleys, where you are lost as if in the desert; no sound, no movement,
no life; scanty, leafless vegetation dots moving soil, and its filaments fall like sickly hairs;
small shells, white and empty, cling to these in chaplets, and, wherever the foot is set, they
crack with a sound like a cricket's chirp; this place is the ossuary of some wretched maritime
tribe.

One tree alone can live here, the pine, a wild creature, inhabitant of the forests and sterile
coasts; there is a whole colony of them here; they crowd together fraternally, and cover the
sand with their brown lamels; the monotonous breeze which sifts through them forever awakes
their murmur; thus they chant in a plaintive fashion, but with a far softer and more harmonious
voice than the other trees; this voice resembles the grating of the cicadas when in August
they sing with all their heart among the stalks of the ripened wheat.

At the left of the village, a footpath winds to the summit of a wasted bank, among billows
of standing grasses. The river is so broad that the other shore is not distinguishable. The
sea, its neighbor, imparts its influence; its long undulations come one after another against
the coast, and pour their little cascades of foam upon the sand; then the water retires, running
down the slope until it meets a new wave coming up which covers it; these billows are never
wearied, and their come and go remind one of the regular breathing of a slumbering child. For
night has fallen, the tints of purple grow brown and fade away. The river goes to rest in the
soft, vague shadow; scarcely, at long intervals, a remnant glimpse is reflected from a slanting
wave; obscurity drowns everything in its vapory dust; the drowsy eye vainly searches in this
mist some visible point, and distinguishes at last, like a dim star, the lighthouse of Cordouan.

The next evening a fresh sea-breeze has brought us to Bordeaux. The enormous city heaps its
monumental houses along the river like bastions; the red sky is embattled by their coping.
They on one hand, the bridge on the other, protect, with a double line, the port where the
vessels are crowded together like a flock of gulls; those graceful hulls, those tapering masts,
those sails swollen or floating, weave the labyrinth of their movements and forms upon the
magnificent purple of the sunset. The sun sinks into the river; the black rigging, the round
hulls, stand out against its conflagration, and look like jewels of jet set in gold.

Around Bordeaux are smiling hills, varied horizons, fresh valleys, a river people by incessant
navigation, a succession of cities and villages harmoniously planted upon the declivities or
in the plains, everywhere the richest verdure, the luxury of nature and civilization, the earth
and man vying with each other to enrich and decorate the happiest valley of France. Below Bordeaux
a flat soil, marshes, sand; a land which goes on growing poorer, villages continually less
frequent, ere long the desert. I like the desert as well.

Pine woods pass to the right and to the left, silent and wan. Each tree bears on its side the
scar of wounds where the woodmen have set flowing the resinous blood which chokes it; the powerful
liquor still ascends into its limbs with the sap, exhales by its slimy shoots and by its cleft
skin; a sharp aromatic odor fills the air.

Beyond, the monotonous plain of the ferns, bathed in light, stretches away as far as the eye
can reach. Their green fans expand beneath the sun which colors, but does not cause them to
fade. Upon the horizon a few scattered trees lift their slender columns. You see now and then
the silhouette of a herdsman on his stilts, inert and standing like a sick heron. Wild horses
are grazing half hid in the herbage. As the train passes, they abruptly lift their great startled
eyes and stand motionless, uneasy at the noise that has troubled their solitude.

Man does not fare well here--he dies or degenerates; but it is the country of animals, and
especially of plants. They abound in this desert, free, certain of living. Our pretty, cut-up
valleys are but poor things alongside of these immense spaces, leagues upon leagues of marshy
or dry vegetation, a level country, where nature, elsewhere troubled and tortured by men, still
vegetates, as in primeval days, with a calm equal to its grandeur. The sun needs these savannas
in order properly to spread out its light; from the rising exhalation, you feel that the whole
plain is fermenting under its force; and the eyes, filled by the limitless horizon, divine
the secret labor by which this ocean of rank verdure renews and nourishes itself.

THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE[A]

[Footnote A: From a letter to his mother, written from the monastery in 1739.]

BY THOMAS GRAY

We took the longest road, which lies through Savoy, on purpose to see a famous monastery, called
the Grande Chartreuse, and had no reason to think our time lost. After having traveled seven
days very slow (for we did not change horses, it being impossible for a chaise to go fast in
these roads), we arrived at a little village, among the mountains of Savoy, called Echelles;
from thence we proceeded on horses, who are used to the way, to the mountain of the Chartreuse.

It is six miles to the top; the road runs winding up it, commonly not six feet broad; on one
hand is the rock, with woods of pine-trees hanging overhead; on the other, a monstrous precipice,
almost perpendicular, at the bottom of which rolls a torrent that, sometimes tumbling among
the fragments of stone that have fallen from on high, and sometimes precipitating itself down
vast descents with a noise like thunder, which is made still greater by the echo from the mountains
on each side, concurs to form one of the most solemn, the most romantic, and the most astonishing
scenes I ever beheld.

Add to this the strange views made by the crags and cliffs on the other hand; the cascades
that in many places throw themselves from the very summit down into the vale, and the river
below; and many other particulars impossible to describe; you will conclude we had no occasion
to repent our plans. This place St. Bruno chose to retire to, and upon its very top founded
the aforesaid convent, which is the superior of the whole order. When we came there, the two
fathers, who are commissioned to entertain strangers (for the rest must neither speak one to
another nor to any one else) received us very kindly; and set before us a repast of dried fish,
eggs, butter, and fruits, all excellent in their kind, and extremely neat. They prest us to
spend the night there, and to stay some days with them; but this we could not do, so they led
us about their house, which is, you must think, like a little city; for there are 100 fathers,
besides 300 servants, that make their clothes, grind their corn, press their wine, and do everything
among themselves.

The whole is quite orderly and simple; nothing of finery; but the wonderful decency, and the
strange situation, more than supply the place of it. In the evening we descended by the same
way, passing through many clouds that were then forming themselves on the mountain's side.
They have settled the matter between them, however, and the elder, the shrine of pilgrimage,
to which the other is but a stepping-stone, or even, as I may say, a humble doormat, takes
the name of the Cité. Like a rival shop, on the invidious side of a street, it has "no connection"
with the establishment across the way, altho the two places are united (if old Carcassonne
may be said to be united to anything) by a vague little rustic faubourg. Few architects have
had such a chance, and M. Viollet-le-Duc must have been the envy of the whole restoring fraternity.
The prosperity and luxury of Biarritz are very recent; it goes back only to the Second Empire,
when it was but a village of a thousand souls or less, mostly fishermen and women.

The railway and the automobile omnibus make communication with Bayonne to-day easy, but formerly
folk came and went on a donkey side-saddled for two, arranged back to back, like the seats
of an Irish jaunting-car. If the weight were unequal, a balance was struck by adding cobblestones
on one side or the other, the patient donkey not minding in the least.

This astonishing mode of conveyance was known as a "cacolet," and replaced the "voitures" and
"fiacres" of other resorts. An occasional example may still be seen, but the "jolies Basquaises"
who conducted them have given way to sturdy, barelegged Basque boys--as picturesque, perhaps,
but not so entrancing to the view. To voyage "en cacolet" was the necessity of our grandfathers;
for us it is an amusement only.

Napoleon III., or rather Eugénie, his spouse, was the faithful godfather of Biarritz as a resort.
The Villa Eugénie is no more; it was first transformed into a hotel and later destroyed by
fire; but it was the first of a great battery of villas and hotels which has made Biarritz
so great that the popularity of Monte Carlo is steadily waning. Biarritz threatens to become
even more popular; some sixteen thousand visitors came to Biarritz in 1899, but there were
thirty-odd thousand in 1903; while the permanent population has risen from 2,700 in the days
of the Second Empire to 12,800 in 1901. The tiny railway from Bayonne to Biarritz transported
half a million travelers twenty years ago, and a million and a half, or nearly that number,
in 1903; the rest, being millionaires, or gypsies, came in automobiles or caravans. These figures
tell eloquently of the prosperity of this "villégiature impériale."

The great beauty of Biarritz is its setting. At Monte Carlo the setting is also beautiful,
ravishingly beautiful, but the architecture, the terrace, Monaco's rock, and all the rest combine
to make the pleasing "ensemble." At Biarritz the architecture of its Casino and the great hotels
is not of an epoch-making beauty, neither are they so delightfully placed. It is the surrounding
stage setting that is so lovely. Here the jagged shore line, the blue waves, the ample horizon
seaward, are what make it all so charming.

Biarritz as a watering-place has an all-the-year-round clientèle; in summer the Spanish and
the French, succeeded in winter by Americans, Germans, and English--with a sprinkling of Russians
at all times. Biarritz, like Pau, aside from being a really delightful winter resort, where
one may escape the rigors of murky November to March in London, is becoming afflicted with
a bad case of "sport fever." There are all kinds of sports, some of them reputable enough in
their place, but the comic-opera fox-hunting which takes place at Pau and Biarritz is not one
of them....

The picturesque "Plage des Basques" lies to the south of the town, bordered with high cliffs,
which in turn are surmounted with terraces of villas. The charm of it all is incomparable.
To the northwest stretches the limpid horizon of the Bay of Biscay, and to the south the snowy
summits of the Pyrenees, and the adorable bays of Saint-Jean-de-Luz and Fontarabie, while behind,
and to the eastward, lies the quaint country of the Basques, and the mountain trails into Spain
in all their savage hardiness.

The off-shore translucent waters of the Gulf of Gascony were the "Sinus Aquitanicus" of the
ancients. A colossal rampart of rocks and sand dunes stretches all the way from the Gironde
to the Bidassoa, without a harbor worthy of the name save at Bayonne and Saint-Jean-de-Luz.
Here the Atlantic waves pound, in time of storm, with all the fury with which they break upon
the rocky coasts of Brittany further north. Perhaps this would not be so, but for the fact
that the Iberian coast to the southward runs almost at right angles with that of Gascony. As
it is, while the climate is mild, Biarritz and the other cities on the coasts of the Gulf of
Gascony have a fair proportion of what sailors, the world over, call "rough weather."

The waters of the Gascon Gulf are not always angry; most frequently they are calm and blue,
vivid with a translucence worthy of those of Capri, and it is this that makes the beach at
Biarritz one of the most popular sea-bathing resorts in France to-day. It is a fashionable
watering-place, but it is also, perhaps, the most beautifully disposed city to be found in
all the round of the European coast line, its slightly curving slope dominated by a background
terrace, decorative in itself, but delightfully set off with its fringe of dwelling-houses,
hotels, and casinos. Ostend is superbly laid out, but it is dreary; Monte Carlo is beautiful,
but it is ultra; while Trouville is constrained and affected. Biarritz has the best features
of all these.... Saint-Jean-de-Luz had a population of ten thousand two centuries ago; to-day
it has three thousand, and most of these take in boarders, or in one way or another cater to
the hordes of visitors who have made it--or would, if they could have supprest its quiet Basque
charm of coloring and character--a little Brighton.

Not all is lost, but four hundred houses were razed in the mid-eighteenth century by a tempest,
and the stable population began to creep away; only with recent years an influx of strangers
has arrived for a week's or a month's stay to take their places--if idling butterflies of fashion
or imaginary invalids can really take the place of a hardworking, industrious colony of fishermen,
who thought no more of sailing away to the South Antarctic or the banks of Newfoundland in
an eighty-ton whaler than they did of seining sardines from a shallop in the Gulf of Gascony
at their doors.

DOWN THE SAONE TO LYONS[A]

[Footnote A: From "Pencillings by the Way." Published by Charles Scribner, 1852.]

BY NATHANIEL PARKER WILLIS

The Saone is about the size of the Mohawk, but not half so beautiful; at least for the greater
part of its course. Indeed, you can hardly compare American with European rivers, for the charm
is of another description, quite. With us it is nature only, here it is almost all art. Our
rivers are lovely, because the outline of the shore is graceful, and particularly because the
vegetation is luxuriant. The hills are green, the foliage deep and lavish, the rocks grown
over with vines or moss, the mountains in the distance covered with pines and other forest-trees;
everything is wild, and nothing looks bare or sterile. The rivers of France are crowned on
every height with ruins, and in the bosom of every valley lies a cluster of picturesque stone
cottages; but the fields are naked, and there are no trees; the mountains are barren and brown,
and everything looks as if the dwellings had been deserted by the people, and nature had at
the same time gone to decay.

I can conceive nothing more melancholy than the views upon the Saone, seen, as I saw them,
tho vegetation is out everywhere, and the banks should be beautiful if ever. As we approached
Lyons the river narrowed and grew bolder, and the last ten miles were enchanting. Naturally
the shores at this part of the Saone are exceedingly like the highlands of the Hudson above
West Point. Abrupt hills rise from the river's edge, and the windings are sharp and constant.
But imagine the highlands of the Hudson crowned with antique chateaux, and covered to the very
top with terraces and summer-houses and hanging-gardens, gravel-walks and beds of flowers,
instead of wild pines and precipices, and you may get a very correct idea of the Saone above Lyons.

You emerge from one of the dark passes of the river by a sudden turn, and there before you
lies this large city, built on both banks, at the foot and on the sides of mountains. The bridges
are fine, and the broad, crowded quays, all along the edges of the river, have a beautiful
effect. There is a great deal of magnificence at Lyons, in the way of quays, promenades, and
buildings.... I was glad to escape from the lower streets, and climb up the long staircases
to the observatory that overhangs the town. From the base of this elevation the descent of
the river is almost a precipice. The houses hang on the side of the steep hill, and their doors
enter from the long alleys of stone staircases by which you ascend....

It was holy-week, and the church of Notre Dame de Fourvières, which stands on the summit of
the hill, was crowded with people. We went in for a moment, and sat down on a bench to rest.
My companion was a Swiss captain of artillery, who was a passenger in the boat, a very splendid
fellow, with a mustache that he might have tied behind his ears. He had addrest me at the hotel,
and proposed that we should visit the curiosities of the town together. He was a model of a
manly figure, athletic, and soldier-like, and standing near him was to get the focus of all
the dark eyes in the congregation.

The new square tower stands at the side of the church, and rises to the height of perhaps sixty
feet. The view from it is said to be one of the finest in the world. I have seen more extensive
ones, but never one that comprehended more beauty and interest. Lyons lies at the foot, with
the Saone winding through its bosom in abrupt curves; the Rhone comes down from the north on
the other side of the range of mountains, and meeting the Saone in a broad stream below the
town, they stretch off to the south, through a diversified landscape; the Alps rise from the
east like the edges of a thunder-cloud, and the mountains of Savoy fill up the interval to
the Rhone.

All about the foot of the monument lie gardens, of exquisite cultivation; and above and below
the city the villas of the rich; giving you altogether as delicious a nucleus for a broad circle
of scenery as art and nature could create, and one sufficiently in contrast with the barrenness
of the rocky circumference to enhance the charm, and content you with your position. Half way
down the hill lies an old monastery, with a lovely garden walled in from the world.

The river was covered with boats, the bells were ringing to church, the glorious old cathedral,
so famous for its splendor, stood piled up, with its arches and gray towers, in the square
below; the day was soft, sunny, and warm, and existence was a blessing. I leaned over the balustrade,
I know not how long, looking down upon the scene about me; and I shall ever remember it as
one of those few unalloyed moments, when the press of care was taken off my mind, and the chain
of circumstances was strong enough to set aside both the past and the future, and leave me
to the quiet enjoyment of the present. I have found such hours "few and far between."

LYONS[A]

[Footnote A: From a letter to his friend West.]

BY THOMAS GRAY

I take this opportunity to tell you that we are at the ancient and celebrated Lugdunum, a city
situated upon the confluence of the Rhone and Saône (Arar, I should say) two people, who tho
of tempers extremely unlike, think fit to join hands here, and make a little party to travel
to the Mediterranean in company; the lady comes gliding along through the fruitful plains of
Burgundy.... the gentleman runs all rough and roaring down from the mountains of Switzerland
to meet her; and with all her soft airs she likes him never the worse; she goes through the
middle of the city in state, and he passes incog, without the walls, but waits for her a little
below.

The houses here are so high, and the streets so narrow, as would be sufficient to render Lyons
the dismalest place in the world, but the number of people, and the face of commerce diffused
about it, are, at least, as sufficient to make it the liveliest: between these two sufficiencies,
you will be in doubt what to think of it; so we shall leave the city, and proceed to its environs,
which are beautiful beyond expression; it is surrounded with mountains, and those mountains
all bedropped and bespeckled with houses, gardens, and plantations of the rich bourgeois, who
have from thence a prospect of the city in the vale below on one hand, on the other the rich
plains of the Lyonnois, with the rivers winding among them, and the Alps, with the mountains
of Dauphiné, to bound the view.

All yesterday morning we were busied in climbing up Mount Fourvière, where the ancient city
stood perched at such a height, that nothing but the hopes of gain could certainly ever persuade
their neighbors to pay them a visit. Here are the ruins of the emperors' palaces, that resided
here, that is to say, Augustus and Severus; they consist in nothing but great masses of old
wall, that have only their quality to make them respected. In a vineyard of the Minims are
remains of a theater; the Fathers, whom they belong to, hold them in no esteem at all, and
would have showed us their sacristy and chapel instead of them. The Ursuline Nuns have in their
garden some Roman baths, but we having the misfortune to be men, they did not think proper
to admit us.

Hard by are eight arches of a most magnificent aqueduct, said to be erected by Antony, when
his legions were quartered here. There are many other parts of it dispersed up and down the
country, for it brought the water from a river many leagues off in La Forez. Here are remains
too of Agrippa's seven great roads which met at Lyons; in some places they lie twelve feet
deep in the ground. At least it will never be overrun by automobiles.

From French or Spanish territory this little unknown land is to be reached by what is called
a "wagon-way," but the road is so bad that the sure-footed little donkeys of the Pyrenees are
by far the best means of locomotion, unless one would go up on foot, a matter of twenty kilometers
or more from Hospitalet in Spanish or Porté in French territory.

The political status of Andorra is most peculiar, but since it has endured without interruption
(and this in spite of wars and rumors of wars), for six centuries, it seems to be all that
is necessary.

A relic of the Middle Ages, Andorra-Viella, the city, and its six thousand inhabitants live
in their lonesome retirement much as they did in feudal times, except for the fact that an
occasional newspaper smuggled in from France or Spain gives a new topic of conversation.

This paternal governmental arrangement which cares for the welfare of the people of Andorra,
the city and the province, is the outcome of a treaty signed by Pierre d'Urg and Roger-Bernhard,
the third Comte de Foix, giving each other reciprocal rights. There's nothing very strange
about this; it was common custom in the Middle Ages for lay and ecclesiastical seigneurs to
make such compacts, but the marvel is that it has endured so well with governments rising and
falling all about, and grafters and pretenders and dictators ruling every bailiwick in which
they can get a foot-hold. Feudal government may have had some bad features, but certainly the
republics and democracies of to-day, to say nothing of absolute monarchies, have some, too.

The ways of access between France and Andorra are numerous enough; but of the eight only two--and
those not all the way--are really practicable for wheeled traffic. The others are mere trails,
or mule-paths.

The people of Andorra, as might be inferred, are all ardent Catholics; and for a tiny country
like this to have a religious seminary, as that at Urgel, is remarkable of itself.

Public instruction is of late making headway, but half a century ago the shepherd and laboring
population--perhaps nine-tenths of the whole--had little learning or indeed need for it. Their
manners and customs are simple and severe and little has changed in modern life from that of
their great-great-great-grandfathers. Each family has a sort of a chief or official head, and
the eldest son always looks for a wife among the families of his own class. Seldom, if ever,
does the married son quit the paternal roof, so large households are the rule. In a family
where there are only girls, the eldest is the heir, and she may only marry with a cadet of
another family by his joining his name with hers. Perhaps it is this that originally set the
fashion for hyphenated names.

The Andorrans are generally robust and well built; the maladies of more populous regions are
practically unknown among them. This speaks much for the simple life! Costumes and dress are
rough and simple and of heavy woolens, clipt from the sheep and woven on the spot. Public officers,
the few representatives of officialdom who exist, alone make any pretense at following the
fashions. The women occupy a very subordinate position in public affairs. They may not be present
at receptions and functions and not even at mass when it is said by the bishop. Crime is infrequent,
and simple, light punishments alone are inflicted. Things are not so uncivilized in Andorra
as one might think!

In need all men may be called upon to serve as soldiers, and each head of a family must have
a rifle and ball at hand at all times. In other words, he must be able to protect himself against
marauders. This does away with the necessity of a large standing police force.

Commerce and industry are free of all taxation in Andorra, and customs dues apply on but few
articles. For this reason there is not a very heavy tax on a people who are mostly cultivators
and graziers. There is little manufacturing industry, as might be supposed, and what is made--save
by hand and in single examples--is of the most simple character. "Made in Germany" or "Tabriqué
en Belgique" are the marks one sees on most of the common manufactured articles.

The Andorrans are a simple, proud, gullible people, who live to-day in the past, of the past
and for the past; "Les vallées et souverainetés de l'Andorre" are to them to-day just what
they always were--a little world of their own.

It is enjoined upon every living creature able to mount a horse, a mule, or any quadruped whatever,
to visit Gavarnie; in default of other beasts, he should, putting aside all shame, bestride
an ass. Ladies and convalescents are there in sedan-chairs.

Otherwise, think what a figure you will make on your return.

"You come from the Pyrenees; you've seen Gavarnie?"

"No."

What then did you go to the Pyrenees for?

You hang your head, and your friend triumphs, especially if he was bored at Gavarnie.

You undergo a description of Gavarnie after the last edition of the guide-book. Gavarnie is
a sublime sight; tourists go sixty miles out of their way to see it; the Duchess d'Angouléme
had herself carried to the furthest rocks. You are overwhelmed with quotations and supercilious
smiles; you are convinced of laziness, of dulness of mind, and, as certain English travelers
say, of unesthetic insensibility.

There are but two resources: to learn a description by heart, or to make the journey. I have
made the journey, and am going to give the description.

We leave at six o'clock in the morning, by the road to Scia, in the fog, without seeing at
first anything beyond confused forms of trees and rocks. At the end of a quarter of an hour,
we hear along the pathway a noise of sharp cries drawing near; it was a funeral procession
coming from Scia. Two men bore a small coffin under a white shroud; behind came four herdsmen
in long cloaks and brown capuchons, silent, with bent heads; four women followed in black mantles.
It was they who uttered those monotonous and piercing lamentations; one knew not if they were
wailing or praying. They walked with long steps through the cold mist, without stopping or
looking at any one, and were going to bury the poor body in the cemetery at Luz.

At Scia the road passes over a small bridge very high up, which commands another bridge, gray
and abandoned. The double tier of arches bends gracefully over the blue torrent; meanwhile
a pale light already floats in the diaphanous mist; a golden gauze undulates above the Gave;
the aërial veil grows thin and will soon vanish.

Nothing can convey the idea of this light, so youthful, timid, and smiling, which glitters
like the bluish wings of a dragon-fly that is pursued and is taken captive in a net of fog.

Beneath, the boiling water is engulfed in a narrow conduit and leaps like a mill-race. The
column of foam, thirty feet high, falls with a furious din, and its glaucous waves, heaped
together in the deep ravine, dash against each other and are broken upon a line of fallen rocks.
Other enormous rocks, débris of the same mountain, hang above the road, their squared heads
crowned with brambles for hair; ranged in impregnable line, they seem to watch the torments
of the Gave, which their brothers hold beneath themselves crusht and subdued.

We turn a second bridge and enter the plain of Gèdrés, verdant and cultivated, where the hay
is in cocks; they are harvesting; our horses walk between two hedges of hazel; we go along
by orchards; but the mountain is ever near; the guide shows us a rock three times the height
of a man, which, two years ago, rolled down and demolished a house.

We encounter several singular caravans: a band of young priests in black hats, black gloves,
black cassocks tucked up, black stockings, very apparent, novices in horsemanship who bound
at every step, like the Gave; a big, jolly, round man, in a sedan-chair, his hands crossed
over his belly, who looks on us with a paternal air, and reads his newspaper; three ladies
of sufficiently ripe age, very slender, very lean, very stiff, who, for dignity's sake, set
their beasts on a trot as we draw near them. The cicisbeo is a bony cartilaginous gentleman,
fixt perpendicularly on his saddle like a telegraph-pole. We hear a harsh clucking, as of a
choked hen, and we recognize the English tongue.

Beyond Gèdres is a wild valley called Chaos, which is well named. After a quarter of an hour's
journey there, the trees disappear, then the juniper and the box, and finally the moss. The
Gave is no longer seen; all noises are hushed. It is a dead solitude peopled with wrecks. The
avalanches of rocks and crusht flint have come down from the summit to the very bottom. The
horrid tide, high and a quarter of a league in length, spreads out like waves its myriads of
sterile stones, and the inclined sheet seems still to glide toward inundating the gorge. These
stones are shattered and pulverized; their living fractures and thin, harsh points wound the
eye; they are still bruising and crushing each other. Not a bush, not a spear of grass; the
arid grayish train burns beneath a sun of brass; its débris are scorched to a dull hue, as
in a furnace.

A hundred paces further on, the aspect of the valley becomes formidable. Troops of mammoths
and mastadons in stone lie crouching over the eastern declivity, one above another, and heaped
up over the whole slope. These colossal ridges shine with a tawny hue like iron rust; the most
enormous of them drink the water of the river at their base. They look as if warming their
bronzed skin in the sun, and sleep, turned over, stretched out on their side, resting in all
attitudes, and always gigantic and frightful. Their deformed paws are curled up; their bodies
half buried in the earth; their monstrous backs rest one upon another. When you enter into
the midst of the prodigious band, the horizon disappears, the blocks rise fifty feet into the
air; the road winds painfully among the overhanging masses; men and horses seem but dwarfs;
these rusted edges mount in stages to the very summit, and the dark hanging army seems ready
to fall on the human insects which come to trouble its sleep.

Once upon a time, the mountain, in a paroxysm of fever, shook its summits like a cathedral
that is falling in. A few points resisted, and their embattled turrets are drawn out in line
on the crest; but their layers are dislocated, their sides creviced, their points jagged. The
whole shattered ridge totters. Beneath them the rock fails suddenly in a living and still bleeding
wound. The splinters are lower down, strewn over the declivity. The tumbled rocks are sustained
one upon another, and man to-day passes in safety amidst the disaster.

But what a day was that of the ruin: It is not very ancient, perhaps of the sixth century,
and the year of the terrible earthquake told of by Gregory of Tours. If a man could without
perishing have seen the summits split, totter and fall, the two seas of rock come bounding
into the gorge, meet one another and grind each other amidst a shower of sparks, he would have
looked upon the grandest spectacle ever seen by human eyes.

On the west, a perpendicular mole, crannied like an old ruin, lifts itself straight up toward
the sky. A leprosy of yellowish moss has incrusted its pores, and has clothed it all over with
a sinister livery. This livid robe upon this parched stone has a splendid effect. Nothing is
uglier than the chalky flints that are drawn from the quarry; just dug up, they seem cold and
damp in their whitish shroud; they are not used to the sun; they make a contrast with the rest.
But the rock that has lived in the air for ten thousand years, where the light has every day
laid on and melted its metallic tints, is the friend of the sun, and carries its mantle upon
its shoulders; it has no need of a garment of verdure; if it suffers from parasitic vegetations,
it sticks them to its sides and imprints them with its colors. The threatening tones with which
it clothes itself suits the free sky, the naked landscape, the powerful heat that environs
it; it is alive like a plant; only it is of another age, one more severe and stronger than
that in which we vegetate.

Gavarnie is a very ordinary village, commanding a view of the amphitheater we are come to see.
After you have left it, it is still necessary to go three miles through a melancholy plain,
half buried in sand by the winter inundations; the waters of the Gave are muddy and dull; a
cold wind whistles from the amphitheater; the glaciers, strewn with mud and stones, are stuck
to the declivity like patches of dirty plaster. The mountains are bald and ravined by cascades;
black cones of scattered firs climb them like routed soldiers; a meager and wan turf wretchedly
clothes their mutilated heads. The horses ford the Gave stumblingly, chilled by the water coming
from the snows. In this wasted solitude you meet, all of a sudden, the most smiling parterre.
A throng of the lovely iris crowds itself into the bed of a dried torrent; the sun stripes
with rays of gold their velvety petals of tender blue; and the eye follows over the whole plain
the folds of the rivulet of flowers.

We climb a last eminence, sown with iris and with stones. There is a hut where you breakfast
and leave the horses. You arm yourself with a stout stick, and descend upon the glaciers of
the amphitheater.

These glaciers are very ugly, very dirty, very uneven, very slippery; at every step you run
the risk of falling, and if you fall, it is on sharp stones or into deep holes. They look very
much like heaps of old plaster-work, and those who have admired them must have a stock of admiration
for sale. The water has pierced them so that you walk upon bridges of snow. These bridges have
the appearance of kitchen air-holes; the water is swallowed up in a very low archway, and,
when you look closely, you get a distinct sight of a black hole.

After the glaciers we find a sloping esplanade; we climb for ten minutes bruising our feet
upon fragments of sharp rock. Since leaving the hut we have not lifted our eyes, in order to
restore for ourselves an unbroken sensation. Here at last we look.

A wall of granite crowned with snow hollows itself before us in a gigantic amphitheater. This
amphitheater is twelve hundred feet high, nearly three miles in circumference, three tiers
of perpendicular walls, and in each tier thousands of steps. The valley ends there; the wall
is a single block and impregnable. The other summits might fall, but its massive layers would
not be moved. The mind is overwhelmed by the idea of a stability that can not be shaken and
an assured eternity. There is the boundary of two countries and two races; this it is that
Roland wanted to break, when with a sword-stroke he opened a breach in the summit. But the
immense wound disappeared in the immensity of the unconquered wall. Three sheets of snow are
spread out over the three tiers of layers.

The sun falls with all its force upon this virginal robe without being able to make it shine.
It preserves its dead whiteness. All this grandeur is austere; the air is chilled beneath the
noonday rays; great, damp shadows creep along the foot of the walls. It is the everlasting
winter and the nakedness of the desert. The sole inhabitants are the cascades assembled to
form the Gave. The streamlets of water come by thousands from the highest layer, leap from
step to step, cross their stripes of foam, unite and fall by a dozen brooks that slide from
the last layer in flaky streaks to lose themselves in the glaciers of the bottom.

The thirteenth cascade on the left is twelve hundred and sixty-six feet high. It falls slowly,
like a dropping cloud, or the unfolding of a muslin veil; the air softens its fall; the eye
follows complacently the graceful undulation of the beautiful airy veil. It glides the length
of the rock, and seems to float rather than to fall. The sun shines, through its plume, with
the softest and loveliest splendor. It reaches the bottom like a bouquet of slender waving
feathers, and springs backward in a silver dust; the fresh and transparent mist swings about
the rock it bathes, and its rebounding train mounts lightly along the courses. No stir in the
air; no noise, no living creature in the solitude. You hear only the monotonous murmur of the
cascades, resembling the rustle of the leaves that the wind stirs in the forest.

On our return, we seated ourselves at the door of the hut. It is a poor, squat little house,
heavily supported upon thick walls; the knotty joists of the ceiling retain their bark. It
is indeed necessary that it should be able to stand out alone against the snows of winter.
You find everywhere the imprint of the terrible months it has gone through. Two dead fir-trees
stand erect at the door. The garden, three feet square, is defended by enormous walls of piled-up
slates. The low and black stable leaves neither foot-hold nor entry for the winds. A lean colt
was seeking a little grass among the stones. A small bull, with surly air, looked at us out
of the sides of his eyes; the animals, the trees and the site, wore a threatening or melancholy
aspect. But in the clefts of a rock were growing some admirable buttercups, lustrous and splendid,
which looked as if painted by a ray of sunshine.

At the village we met our companions of the journey who had sat down there. The good tourists
get fatigued, stop ordinarily at the inn, take a substantial dinner, have a chair brought to
the door, and digest while looking at the amphitheater, which from there appears about as high
as a house. After this they return, praising the sublime sight, and very glad that they have
come to the Pyrenees.

VI

BELGIUM

BRUGES[A]

[Footnote A: From "Cities of Belgium."]

BY GRANT ALLEN

The Rhine constituted the great central waterway of medieval Europe; the Flemish towns were
its ports and its manufacturing centers. They filled in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries
much the same place that Liverpool, Glasgow, Manchester, and Birmingham fill in the nineteenth.
Many causes contributed to this result.

Flanders, half independent under its own counts, occupied a middle position, geographically
and politically, between France and the Empire; it was comparatively free from the disastrous
wars which desolated both these countries, and in particular it largely escaped the long smouldering
quarrel between French and English, which so long retarded the development of the former. Its
commercial towns, again, were not exposed on the open sea to the attacks of pirates or hostile
fleets, but were safely ensconced in inland flats, reached by rivers or canals, almost inaccessible
to maritime enemies. Similar conditions elsewhere early ensured peace and prosperity for Venice.

The canal system of Holland and Belgium began to be developed as early as the twelfth century
(at first for drainage), and was one leading cause of the commercial importance of the Flemish
cities in the fourteenth. In so flat a country, locks are all but unnecessary. The two towns
which earliest rose to greatness in the Belgian area were thus Bruges and Ghent; they possest
in the highest degree the combined advantages of easy access to the sea and comparative inland
security.

Bruges, in particular, was one of the chief stations of the Hanseatic League, which formed
an essentially commercial alliance for the mutual protection of the northern trading centers.
By the fourteenth century Bruges had thus become in the north what Venice was in the south,
the capital of commerce. Trading companies from all the surrounding countries had their "factories"
in the town, and every European king or prince of importance kept a resident minister accredited
to the merchant republic.

Some comprehension of the mercantile condition of Europe in general during the Middle Ages
is necessary in order to understand the early importance and wealth of the Flemish cities.
Southern Europe, and in particular Italy, was then still the seat of all higher civilization,
more especially of the trade in manufactured articles and objects of luxury. Florence, Venice
and Genoa ranked as the polished and learned cities of the world. Further east, again, Constantinople
still remained in the hands of the Greek emperors, or, during the Crusades, of their Latin
rivals. A brisk trade existed via the Mediterranean between Europe and India or the nearer
East. This double stream of traffic ran along two main routes--one, by the Rhine, from Lombardy
and Rome; the other, by sea, from Venice, Genoa, Florence, Constantinople, the Levant, and India.

On the other hand, France was still but a half civilized country, with few manufactures and
little external trade; while England was an exporter of raw produce, chiefly wool, like Australia
in our own time. The Hanseatic merchants of Cologne held the trade of London; those of Wisby
and Lübeck governed that of the Baltic; Bruges, as head of the Hansea, was in close connection
with all of these, as well as with Hull, York, Novgorod, and Bergen.

The position of the Flemish towns in the fourteenth century was thus not wholly unlike that
of New York, Philadelphia, and Boston at the present day; they stood as intermediaries between
the older civilized countries, like Italy or the Greek empire, and the newer producers of raw
material, like England, North Germany, and the Baltic towns.

In a lost corner of the great lowland flat of Flanders, defended from the sea by an artificial
dike, and at the point of intersection of an intricate network of canals and waterways, there
arose in the early Middle Ages a trading town, known in Flemish as Brugge, in French as Bruges
(that is to say, The Bridge), from a primitive structure that here crossed the river. A number
of bridges now span the sluggish streams. All of them open in the middle to admit the passage
of shipping.

Bruges stood originally on a little river, Reye, once navigable, now swallowed by canals; and
the Reye flowed into the Zwin, long silted up, but then the safest harbor in the Low Countries.
At first the capital of a petty Count, this land-locked internal harbor grew in time to be
the Venice of the North, and to gather round its quays or at its haven of Damme, the ships
and merchandise of all neighboring peoples. Already in 1200 it ranked as the central mart of
the Hanseatic League.

It was the port of entry for English wool and Russian furs: the port of departure for Flemish
broadcloths, laces, tapestries, and linens. Canals soon connected it with Ghent, Dunkirk, Sluys,
Furnes and Ypres. Its nucleus lay in a little knot of buildings about the Grand Place and the
Hotel de Ville, stretching out to the Cathedral and the Dyver; thence it spread on all sides
till, in 1362, it filled the whole space within the existing ramparts, now largely abandoned
or given over to fields and gardens. It was the wealthiest town of Europe, outside Italy.

The decline of the town was due partly to the break-up of the Hanseatic system; partly to the
rise of English ports and manufacturing towns; but still more, and especially as compared with
our Flemish cities, to the silting of the Zwin, and the want of adaption in its waterways to
the needs of great ships and modern navigation. The old sea entrance to Bruges was through
the Zwin, by way of Sluys and Kadzand; up that channel came the Venetian merchant fleet and
the Flemish galleys, to the port of Damme. By 1470, it ceased to be navigable for large vessels.

The later canal is still open, but as it passes through what is now Dutch territory, it is
little used; nor is it adapted to any save ships of comparatively small burden. Another canal,
suitable for craft of 500 tons, leads through Belgian territory to Ostend; but few vessels
now navigate it, and those for the most part only for local trade. The town has shrunk to half
its former size, and has only a quarter of its medieval population.

The commercial decay of Bruges, however, has preserved its charm for the artist, the archeologist,
and the tourist; its sleepy streets and unfrequented quays are among the most picturesque sights
of bustling and industrial modern Belgium. The great private palaces, indeed, are almost all
destroyed; but many public buildings remain, and the domestic architecture is quaint and pretty.

Bruges was the mother of arts in Flanders: Jan van Eyck lived here from 1428 to 1440. Memling,
probably from 1477 till 1494. Caxton, the first English printer, lived as a merchant at Bruges,
in the Domus Anglorum or English factory, from 1446 to 1476, and probably put in the press
here the earliest English book printed, tho strong grounds have been adduced in favor of Cologne.
Colard Mansion, the great printer of Bruges at that date, was one of the leaders in the art
of typography....

The very tall square tower which faces you as you enter the Grand Place is the Belfry, the
center and visible embodiment of the town of Bruges. The Grand Place itself was the forum and
meeting place of the soldier citizens, who were called to arms by the chimes in the Belfry.
The center of the place is therefore appropriately occupied by a colossal statue group, modern,
of Pieter de Coninck and Jan Breidel, the leaders of the citizens of Bruges at the Battle of
the Spurs before the walls of Courtrai in 1302, a conflict which secured the freedom of Flanders
from the interference of the Kings of France. The group is by Devigne. The reliefs on the pedestal
represent scenes from the battle and its antecedents.

The majestic Belfry itself represents the first beginnings of freedom in Bruges. Leave to erect
such a bell-tower, both as a mark of independence and to summon the citizens to arms, was one
of the first privileges which every Teutonic trading town desired to wring from its feudal
lord. This brick tower, the pledge of municipal rights, was begun in 1291, to replace an earlier
one of wood, and finished about a hundred years later; the octagon, in stone at the summit,
which holds the bell, having been erected in 1393-96.

It consists of three stories, the two lower of which are square and flanked by balconies with
turrets; the windows below are of the simple early Gothic style, but show a later type of architecture
in the octagon. The niche in the center contains the Virgin and Child, a group restored after
being destroyed by the French revolutionists. Below it on either side are smaller figures holding
escutcheons. From the balcony between these last, the laws and the rescripts of the counts
were read aloud to the people assembled in the square.

The Belfry can be ascended by steps. Owing to the force of the wind, it leans slightly to the
southeast. The view from the top is very extensive and striking. It embraces the greater part
of the Plain of Flanders, with its towns and villages. The country, tho quite flat, looks beautiful
when thus seen. In early times, however, the look-out from the summit was of practical use
for purposes of observation, military or maritime. It commanded the river, the Zwin, and the
sea approach by Sluys and Damme; the course of the various canals; and the roads to Ghent,
Antwerp, Tournai, and Courtrai. The Belfry contains a famous set of chimes, the mechanism of
which may be inspected by the visitor. He will have frequent opportunities of hearing the beautiful
and mellow carillon, perhaps to excess. The existing bells date only from 1680: the mechanism
from 1784.

GHENT[A]

[Footnote A: From "Cities of Belgium."]

BY GRANT ALLEN

Flanders owes everything to its water communications. At the junction of the Schelde with the
Lys and Lei, there grew up in the very early Middle Ages a trading town, named Gent in Flemish,
and Gand in French, but commonly Anglicized as Ghent. It lay on a close network of rivers and
canals, formed partly by these two main streams, and partly by the minor channels of the Lieve
and the Moere, which together intersect it into several islands.

Such a tangle of inland waterways, giving access to the sea and to Bruges, Courtrai, and Tournai,
as well as less directly to Antwerp and Brussels, ensured the rising town in early times considerable
importance. It formed the center of a radiating commerce. Westward, its main relations were
with London and English wool ports; eastward with Cologne, Maastricht, the Rhine towns, and Italy.

Ghent was always the capital of East Flanders, as Bruges or Ypres were of the Western province;
and after the Counts lost possession of Arras and Artois, it became in the thirteenth century
their principal residence and the metropolis of the country....

Early in the fourteenth century, the burghers of Ghent, under their democratic chief, Jacob
or Jacques Van Artevelde, attained practical independence. Till 1322, the counts and people
of Flanders had been united in their resistance to the claims of France; but with the accession
of Count Louis of Nevers, the aspect of affairs changed. Louis was French by education, sympathies,
and interests, and artistocratic by nature; he sought to curtail the liberties of the Flemish
towns, and to make himself despotic. The wealthy and populous burgher republics resisted and
in 1337 Van Artevelde was appointed Captain of Ghent. Louis fled to France and asked the aid
of Philip of Valois.

Thereupon, Van Artevelde made himself the ally of Edward III. of England, then beginning his
war with France; but as the Flemings did not like entirely to cast off their allegiance--a
thing repugnant to medieval sentiment--Van Artevelde persuaded Edward to put forward his trumped-up
claim to the crown of France, and thus induced the towns to transfer their fealty from Philip
to his English rival. It was therefore in his character as King of France that Edward came
to Flanders. The alliance thus formed between the great producer of raw wool, England, and
the great manufacturer of woolen goods, Ghent, proved of immense importance to both parties.

But as Count Louis sided with Philip of Valois, the breach between the democracy of Ghent and
its nominal soverign now became impassable. Van Artevelde held supreme power in Ghent and Flanders
for nine years--the golden age of Flemish commerce--and was treated on equal terms by Edward,
who stopt at Ghent as his guest for considerable periods. But he was opposed by a portion of
the citizens, and his suggestion that the Black Prince, son of Edward III., should be elected
Count of Flanders, proved so unpopular with his enemies that he was assassinated by one of
them, Gerald Denys. The town and states immediately repudiated the murder; and the alliance
which Van Artevelde had brought about still continued. It had far-reaching results; the woolen
industry was introduced by Edward into the Eastern Counties of England, and Ghent had risen
meanwhile to be the chief manufacturing city of Europe.

The quarrel between the democratic weavers and their exiled counts was still carried on by
Philip van Artevelde, the son of Jacques, and godson of Queen Philippa of England, herself
a Hainaulter. Under his rule, the town continued to increase in wealth and population. But
the general tendency of later medieval Europe toward centralized despotisms as against urban
republics was too strong in the end for free Ghent. In 1381, Philip was appointed dictator
by the democratic party, in the war against the Count, son of his father's opponent, whom he
repelled with great slaughter in a battle near Bruges.

He then made himself Regent of Flanders. But Count Louis obtained the aid of Charles VI. of
France, and defeated and killed Philip van Artevelde at the disastrous battle of Roosebeke
in 1382. That was practically the end of local freedom in Flanders. Tho the cities continued
to revolt against their sovereigns from time to time, they were obliged to submit for the most
part to their Count and to the Burgundian princes who inherited from him by marriage.

The subsequent history of Ghent is that of the capital of the Burgundian Dukes, and of the
House of Austria. Here the German king, Maximilian, afterward Emperor, married Mary of Burgundy,
the heiress of the Netherlands; and here Charles V. was born in the palace of the Counts. It
was his principal residence, and he was essentially a Fleming....

The real interest of the Cathedral centers, not in St. Bavon, nor in his picture by Rubens,
but in the great polyptych of the Adoration of the Lamb, the masterpiece of Jan van Eyck and
his brother Hubert, which forms in a certain sense the point of departure for the native art
of the Netherlands....

Stand before the west front at a little distance, to examine the simple but massive architecture
of the tower and façade. The great portal has been robbed of the statues which once adorned
its niches. Three have been "restored"; they represent, center, the Savior; at the left, the
patron, St. Bavon, recognizable by his falcon, his sword as duke, and his book as monk; he
wears armor, with a ducal robe and cap above it; at the right, St. John the Baptist, the earlier
patron.

Then, walk to the right, round the south side, to observe the external architecture of the
nave, aisles and choir. The latter has the characteristic rounded or apsidal termination of
Continental Gothic, whereas English Gothic usually has a square end. Enter by the south portal.

The interior, with single aisles and short transepts (Early Gothic) is striking for its simple
dignity, its massive pillars, and its high arches, tho the undeniably noble effect of the whole
is somewhat marred to English eyes by the unusual appearance of the unadorned brick walls and
vaulting. The pulpit, by Delvaux (1745), partly in oak, partly in marble, represents Truth
revealing the Christian Faith to astonished Paganism, figured as an old and outworn man. It
is a model of all that should be avoided in plastic or religious art. The screen which separates
the choir from the transepts is equally unfortunate. See it more than once, and examine it
carefully. Ask the sacristan to let you sit before it for some time in quiet or he will hurry
you on. You must observe it in close detail. Taking it in its entirety, then, the altar-piece,
when opened, is a great mystical poem of the Eucharist and the Sacrifice of the Lamb, with
the Christian folk, both Church and World, adoring. The composition contains over 200 figures.
Many of them, which I have not here identified, can be detected by a closer inspection, which,
however, I will leave to the reader.

Now, ask the sacristan to shut the wings. They are painted on the outer side (all a copy) mainly
in grisaille, or in very low tones of color, as is usual in such cases, so as to allow the
jewel-like brilliancy of the internal picture to burst upon the observer the moment the altar-piece
is opened.

Old Ghent occupied for the most part the island which extends from the Palais de Justice on
one side to the Botanical Gardens on the other. This island, bounded by the Lys, the Schelde,
and an ancient canal, includes almost all the principal buildings of the town, such as the
Cathedral, St. Nicholas, the Hôtel-dé-Ville, the Belfry, and St. Jacques, as well as the chief
Places, such as the Marché aux Grains, the Marché aux Herbes, and the Marché du Vendredi. It
also extends beyond the Lys to the little island on which is situated the church of St. Michael,
and again to the islet formed between the Lieve and the Lys, which contains the château of
the Counts and the Palace Ste. Pharailde.

In the later middle ages, however, the town had spread to nearly its existing extreme dimensions,
and was probably more populous than at the present moment. But its ancient fortifications have
been destroyed and their place has been taken by boulevards and canals. The line may still
be traced on the map, or walked round through a series of shipping suburbs; but it is uninteresting
to follow, a great part of its course lying through the more squalid portions of the town.
The only remaining gate is that known as the Rabot (1489), a very interesting and picturesque
object situated in a particularly slummy quarter.

Bruges is full of memories of the Burgundian Princes. At Ghent it is the personality of Charles
V., the great emperor who cumulated in his own person the sovereignties of Germany, the Low
Countries, Spain and Burgundy, that meets us afresh at every turn. He was born here in 1500
and baptized in a font, otherwise uninteresting, which still stands in the north transept of
the Cathedral. Ghent was really, for the greater part of his life, his practical capital, and
he never ceased to be at heart a Ghenter.

That did not prevent the citizens from unjustly rebelling against him in 1540, after the suppression
of which revolt Charles is said to have ascended the cathedral tower, while the executioner
was putting to death the ringleaders in the rebellion, in order to choose with his brother
Ferdinand the site for the citadel he intended to erect, to overawe the freedom loving city.
He chose the Monastery of St. Bavon as its site, and, as we have seen, built there his colossal
fortress, now wholly demolished. The palace in which he was born and which he inhabited frequently
during life, was known as the Cour du Prince. It stood near the Ancient Grand Béguinage, but
only its name now survives in that of a street.

BRUSSELS[A]

[Footnote A: From "The Belgians at Home." Published by Little, Brown & Co.]

BY CLIVE HOLLAND

The great commercial and material prosperity of the place dates from the commencement of the
rule of the House of Burgundy. It was then, in the fifteenth century, that the most beautiful
of its many fine buildings were erected. The Church of St. Michael and St. Gudule has its great
nave and towers dating from this period; the Hôtel de Ville, Notre Dame du Sablon, the Nassau
Palace, the Palace of the Dukes of Brabant, and many other buildings were commenced then. Manufactures
and commerce commenced to flourish, while the liberties of the municipality were extended considerably.

It was undoubtedly under the rule of Charles V. that Brussels reached its zenith of ancient
prosperity. Then, with the era of Philip II. of Spain, came a long period of bloodshed, persecution,
and misery. The religious disputes and troubles afflicting the Netherlands had their effect
upon the life, prosperity, and happiness of the Bruxellois. The whole country was running with
blood, and ruin stalked through the land. But during this tragic period of Netherlands' history
Brussels saw several glorious events, and did as a city more than one noble deed. It was in
Brussels that the compromise of the nobles took place, after which those who were rebelling
against the cruelties of the Inquisition were given the name of "Gueux," which had been bestowed
upon them contemptuously by the Comte de Barlaimont.... It was Brussels which led the revolt
against the most bloodthirsty of the rulers sent to the Netherlands by Spain, the Duke of Alva,
and successfully resisted the imposition of the notorious "twentieth denier" tax which it was
sought to impose upon it, a tax which led ultimately to the revolt of the whole of the Belgian
provinces.

Certainly this ancient capital of the Province of Brabant, containing nowadays with its suburbs
a population of upward of 600,000, which has quadrupled in sixty years, has come to take its
place among the most beautiful and charming capital cities of Europe. It is undoubtedly healthy,
and there is an engaging air about Brussels which soon impresses itself upon the foreign visitor.
Added to all its many attractions of interesting museums--the homes of wonderful and in some
cases unrivaled collections of works of art--and of historical associations with the past,
it possesses the charm of being modern in the best sense and of being a place where one may
find much that is finest in art and music. Brussels is a city of shady boulevards, open spaces,
and pleasant parks as is Paris; and the beautiful Bois de la Cambre on its outskirts compares
very favorably with the world-renowned Bois de Boulogne as regards rural charm and picturesqueness.

One impression that Brussels is almost certain to make upon the visitor is its compactness.
Its population, including the outskirts, is nowadays rather over 600,000; but it is almost
impossible to realize that nearly one-eleventh of the whole population of Belgium is concentrated
in this one city, or, as might be said, in Greater Brussels. Perhaps the real reason of this
apparent lack of size is because there are in reality two cities, Brussels interior and Brussels
exterior. The one with a population of about 225,000; the latter with one of about 375,000.
It is with the former, of course, that the tourist and casual visitor are chiefly concerned.

The outlying suburbs are, however, connected with the city proper by a splendid system of steam,
electric, and other trams. In fact, it may be said that Brussels is in a sense surrounded by
a group of small towns, which tho forming part of the great city are yet independent, and are
governed very much like the various boroughs which make up Greater London, Curhegem, St. Gilles,
Ixelles, St. Josse, Ten Noodle, Molenbeek, St. Jean, and Schaerbeek, still further out, are
all in a sense separate towns, seldom visited by, and indeed almost unknown to the tourist.

The most fashionable quarters for residences of the wealthy classes are the broad and beautiful
Avenue Louise and the streets and avenues of the Quartier Leopold. They in a sense correspond
to the Avenue du Bois de Boulogne, Avenue des Champs Élysées, and Boulevard St. Germain of
Paris. There is another feature, too, that modern Brussels has in common with Paris of the
immediate past and of to-day. It is being "Haussmannized," and the older and more quaint and
interesting portions of the city, as has been and is the case in Paris, are gradually but surely
disappearing to make way for the onward march of progress and expansion. Almost on every hand,
and especially in the Porte de Namur Quarter, old buildings are constantly falling victims
to the house-wrecker, and new, in the shape of handsome mansions and lofty blocks of flats,
are arising from their ashes.

The last thirty--even twenty--years have seen many changes. During that period the sluggish
little River Senne, which once meandered through the city, and upon whose banks stood many
fine and picturesque old houses and buildings of past ages, has been arched over, and the fine
Boulevard of the same name, and those of Hainaut and Anspach, have been built above its imprisoned
waters. The higher portions of the city are undeniably healthy, and the climate of Brussels
is less subject to extreme changes than that of Paris. It is not unbearably cold in winter,
and tho hot in summer, is not so, we think, airless as either Paris or London, a fact accounted
for by reason of its many open spaces, its height above sea-level, and comparative nearness
to the North Sea.

Of its fine buildings, none excels the Hôtel de Ville, which is certainly one of the most interesting
and beautiful buildings of its kind in Belgium. It is well placed on one of the finest medieval
squares in Europe, and is surrounded by quaint and historic houses. On this Grande Place many
tragedies have from time to time been enacted, and some of the most ferocious acts of the inhuman
Alva performed. In the spring of the terrible year, 1568, no less than twenty-five Flemish
nobles were executed here, and in the June of the same year the patriots Lamoral, Count Egmont,
Philip de Montmorency, and Count Hoorn were put to death. This atrocious deed is commemorated
by a fountain with statues of the heroes, placed in front of the Maison du Roi, from a window
of which the Duke of Alva watched his orders carried out.

This most beautiful Hôtel de Ville, with its late Gothic façade approaching the Renaissance
period, nearly 200 feet in length, was commenced, according to a well-known authority, either
in 1401 or 1402, the eastern wing, or left-hand portion as one faces it across the Place, having
been the first part to be commenced, the western half of the façade not having been begun until
1444. The later additions formed the quadrangle.

The Cathedral at Brussels is dedicated jointly to Ste. Gudule and St. Michael. The former is
one of the luckiest saints in that respect, as probably but for this dedication, she would
have remained among the many rather obscure saints of the early periods of Christianity.

It is to this church that most visitors to Brussels first wend their way after visiting the
Grande Place and its delightful Flower Market, which is gay with blossoms on most days of the
week all the year round. The natural situation of the church is a fine one, which was made
the most of by its architects and builders of long ago. Standing, as it does, on the side of
a hill reached from the Grande Place by the fine Rue de la Montagne and short, steep Rue Ste.
Gudule, it overlooks the city with its two fine twin western towers dominating the neighboring
streets. These towers have appeared to us when viewed up the Rue Ste. Gudule and other streets
leading up from the lower town to the church, generally to be veiled by a mystic gray or ambient
haze, and to gain much in impressiveness and grandeur from the coup d'oeil one obtains of them
framed, as it were, in the end of the rising street.

WATERLOO[A]

[Footnote A: From "Les Miserables." Translated by Lascelles Wraxall.]

BY VICTOR HUGO

The battle of Waterloo is an enigma as obscure for those who gained it as for him who lost
it. To Napoleon it is a panic; Blücher sees nothing in it but fire; Wellington does not understand
it at all. Look at the reports; the bulletins are confused; the commentaries are entangled;
the latter stammer, the former stutter.

Jomini divides the battle of Waterloo into four moments; Muffing cuts it into three acts; Charras,
altho we do not entirely agree with him in all his appreciations, has alone caught with his
haughty eye the characteristic lineaments of this catastrophe of human genius contending with
divine chance. All the other historians suffer from a certain bedazzlement in which they grope
about. It was a flashing day, in truth the overthrow of the military monarchy which, to the
great stupor of the kings, has dragged down all kingdoms, the downfall of strength and the
rout of war....

In this event, which bears the stamp of superhuman necessity, men play but a small part; but
if we take Waterloo from Wellington and Blücher, does that deprive England and Germany of anything?
No. Neither illustrious England nor august Germany is in question in the problem of Waterloo,
for, thank heaven! nations are great without the mournful achievements of the sword. Neither
Germany, nor England, nor France is held in a scabbard; at this day when Waterloo is only a
clash of sabers, Germany has Goethe above Blücher, and England has Byron above Wellington.
A mighty dawn of ideas is peculiar to our age; and in this dawn England and Germany have their
own magnificent flash. They are majestic because they think; the high level they bring to civilization
is intrinsic to them; it comes from themselves, and not from an accident. Any aggrandizement
the nineteenth century may have can not boast of Waterloo as its fountainhead; for only barbarous
nations grow suddenly after a victory--it is the transient vanity of torrents swollen by a
storm. Civilized nations, especially at the present day, are not elevated or debased by the
good or evil fortune of a captain, and their specific weight in the human family results from
something more than a battle. Their honor, dignity, enlightenment, and genius are not numbers
which those gamblers, heroes and conquerors, can stake in the lottery of battles. Very often
a battle lost is progress gained, and less of glory, more of liberty. No; a prize in the lottery,
won by Europe, and paid by France; it was hardly worth while erecting a lion for it.

Waterloo is the strangest encounter recorded in history; Napoleon and Wellington are not enemies,
but contraries. Never did God, who delights in antitheses, produce a more striking contrast,
or a more extraordinary confrontation. On one side precision, foresight, geometry, prudence,
a retreat assured, reserves prepared, an obstinate coolness, an imperturbable method, strategy
profiting by the ground, tactics balancing battalions, carnage measured by a plumb-line, war
regulated watch in hand, nothing left voluntarily to accident, old classic courage and absolute
correctness.

On the other side we have intuition, divination, military strangeness, superhuman instinct,
a flashing glance; something that gazes like the eagle and strikes like lightning, all the
mysteries of a profound mind, associated with destiny; the river, the plain, the forest, and
the hill summoned, and, to some extent, compelled to obey; the despot going so far as even
to tyrannize over the battlefield; faith in a star, blended with a strategic science, heightening,
but troubling it.

Wellington was the Barême of war, Napoleon was its Michelangelo, and this true genius was conquered
by calculation. On both sides somebody was expected; and it was the exact calculator who succeeded.
Napoleon waited for Grouchy, who did not come; Wellington waited for Blücher, and he came.

Wellington is the classical war taking its revenge; Bonaparte, in his dawn, had met it in Italy,
and superbly defeated it--the old owl fled before the young vulture. The old tactics had been
not only overthrown, but scandalized. Who was this Corsican of six-and-twenty years of age?
What meant this splendid ignoramus, who, having everything against him, nothing for him, without
provisions, ammunition, guns, shoes, almost without an army, with a handful of men against
masses, dashed at allied Europe, and absurdly gained impossible victories? Who was this new
comet of war who possest the effrontery of a planet?

The academic military school excommunicated him, while bolting, and hence arose an implacable
rancor of the old Caesarism against the new, of the old saber against the flashing sword, and
of the chessboard against genius. On June 18, 1815, this rancor got the best; and beneath Lodi,
Montebello, Montenotte, Mantua, Marengo, and Arcola, it wrote--Waterloo. It was a triumph of
mediocrity, sweet to majorities, and destiny consented to this irony. In his decline, Napoleon
found a young Suvarov before him--in fact, it is only necessary to blanch Wellington's hair
in order to have a Suvarov. Wellington, strangely ungrateful, declares in his dispatch to Lord
Bathurst that his army, the one which fought on June 18, 1815, was a "detestable army."

What does the gloomy pile of bones buried in the trenches of Waterloo think of this? England
has been too modest to herself in her treatment of Wellington, for making him so great is making
herself small. Wellington is merely a hero, like any other man. The Scots Grays, the Life Guards,
Maitland's and Mitchell's regiments, Pack's and Kempt's infantry, Ponsonby's and Somerset's
cavalry, the Highlanders playing the bagpipes under the shower of canister, Ryland's battalions,
the fresh recruits who could hardly manage a musket, and yet held their ground against the
old bands of Essling and Rivoli--all this is grand.

Wellington was tenacious; that was his merit, and we do not deny it to him, but the lowest
of his privates and his troopers was quite as solid as he, and the iron soldier is as good
as the iron duke. For our part, all our glorification is offered to the English soldier, the
English army, the English nation; and if there must be a trophy, it is to England that this
trophy is owing. The Waterloo column would be more just, if, instead of the figure of a man,
it raised to the clouds the statue of a people....

But this great England will be irritated by what we are writing here; for she still has feudal
illusions, after her 1688 and the French 1789. This people believes in inheritance and hierarchy,
and while no other excels it in power and glory, it esteems itself as a nation and not as a
people. As a people, it readily subordinates itself, and takes a lord as its head; the workman
lets himself be despised; the soldier puts up with flogging. It will be remembered that, at
the battle of Inkerman, a sergeant who, as it appears, saved the British army, could not be
mentioned by Lord Raglan, because the military hierarchy does not allow any hero below the
rank of officer to be mentioned in dispatches. What we admire before all, in an encounter like
Waterloo, is the prodigious skill of chance.

There is more of a massacre than of a battle in Waterloo. From this density came the carnage.

The field of Waterloo has at the present day that calmness which belongs to the earth, and
resembles all plains; but at night, a sort of a visionary mist rises from it, and if any traveler
walk about it, and listen and dream, like Virgil on the mournful plain of Philippi, the hallucination
of the catastrophe seizes upon him. The frightful June 18th lives again, the false monumental
hill is leveled, the wondrous lion is dissipated, the battlefield resumes its reality, lines
of infantry undulate on the plain; furious galloping crosses the horizon; the startled dreamer
sees the flash of sabers, the sparkle of bayonets, the red lights of shells, the monstrous
collision of thunderbolts; he hears like a death groan from the tomb, the vague clamor of the
fantom battle.

These shadows are grenadiers; these flashes are cuirassiers; this skeleton is Napoleon; this
skeleton is Wellington: all this is non-existent, and yet still combats, and the ravines are
stained purple, and the trees rustle, and there is fury even in the clouds and in the darkness,
while all the stern heights, Mont St. Jean, Hougoumont, Frischemont, Papelotte, and Plancenoit,
seem confusedly crowned by hosts of specters exterminating one another.

WATERLOO: A VISIT TO THE FIELD[A]

[Footnote A: From "Two Months Abroad." Privately printed. 1878.]

BY THE EDITOR

The French wished to call it the battle of Mont St. Jean, but Wellington said "The Battle of
Waterloo." The victor's wish prevailed. I know not why, except because he was the victor. The
scene of the battle is four miles from the village of Waterloo and, besides Mont St. Jean,
several villages from any one of which it might well have been named, are included in the field.
Before the battle, however, the village of Waterloo had been the headquarters of the Duke and
there he rested for two days after the battle was won.

I am now on this memorable spot as the solitary guest of a small hotel at the base of the Lion's
Mound, after having made a night of it in crossing from Aix-la-Chapelle to Brussels and thence,
through a storm of mist and rain to the little station of Braine-l'Alleud, which is a good
mile from the battlefield. The train reached Braine-l'Alleud long before daybreak. When the
morn had really dawned, I left the little waiting room, a solitary loiterer, and set out to
find the battleground. From the platform of the station the eye surveyed a wide, thickly populated
but rural plain, and in one direction afar off, clearly set against the dark rain-dripping
sky, rose in solemn majesty a mound of earth, bearing on its lofty summit an indistinct figure
of a lion.

A small rustic gate from the station led in the direction of the Mound. From necessity, I began
a tramp through the rain alone, no conveyance being obtainable. The soil of Belgium here being
alluvial, a little rain soon makes a great deal of mud and little rains at this season (January)
are frequent. Along a small unpaved mud-deep road, having meanwhile been joined by a peasant
with a two wheeled cart drawn by a single mule, I was soon hastening onward toward the Mound
which was growing more and more visible on the horizon. The road soon turned away, however,
but a path led toward the mound. The peasant took the road and I the path, which led into a
little clump of houses, where were boys about their morning duties, and dogs that barked vigorously
until one of the boys to whom I had spoken silenced them.

Passing onward through streets not more than six feet wide, along neatly trimmed hedges and
past small cottage doorways, I soon entered an open plain, but in a crippled state with heavy
mud-covered shoes. Mud fairly obliterated all trace of leather. With this burden, and wet to
the skin with rain, there rose far ahead of me that historic mound, and at last I stood at
its base alone, there in the midst of one of the greatest battlefields history records, soon
to forget in the momentary joys of a beefsteak breakfast that man had ever done anything in
this world except eat and drink.

I must borrow an illustration--Victor Hugo's letter A. The apex is Mount St. Jean, the right
hand base La Belle Alliance, the left hand base Hougoumont, the cross bar that sunken road
which perhaps changed the future of Europe, the two sides broad Belgian roads, paved with square
stones and bordered with graceful and lofty poplar trees, their proud heads waving in every
breeze that drifts across this undulating plain. The Lion's Mound is just below the middle
of this cross bar. Mont St. Jean, La Belle Alliance and Hougoumont, at the three angles of
the triangle, are small villages--scarcely more than hamlets. All were important points in
the fortunes of that memorable 18th of June, 1815. Hougoumont, with its château and wall, in
some sense was like a fortress.

Go with me if you will in imagination to the summit of the Lion's Mound. A flight of 225 stone
steps will take us there, a toilsome ascent in this chilling air and this persistent rain.
Toward Mont St. Jean, the surface of the ground is rolling, the waves of it high enough to
conceal standing men from view. Except the lofty poplars at the road sides, there are no trees.
An admirable place for an army on the defensive, you will at once say, since reserves can be
concealed behind the convolutions of the rolling plain. These convolutions may also serve in
the fight as natural fortifications.

Here at Mont St. Jean, Wellington pitched his tent. Hougoumont lay far off in front of his
center, and had that morning a small garrison. Napoleon, with his army, was a mile away, his
line extending to the right and left beyond La Belle Alliance. We must turn squarely around
as we stand alongside the lion if we are to see in the distance the ground he occupied. Our
place is nearly in the center of the field. Hougoumont we realize to have been worthy of the
prodigious struggle the French made to capture it. Half a fortress then, it provided an admirable
stand for artillery. A few men might hold it against superior numbers.

At Waterloo the Duke had about 67,000 men--some accounts say 70,000--but many, perhaps 15,000,
fled in desertion at an early hour of the day. With these figures correct, the fighting forces
of the Allies later in the day, would remain little more than 55,000 men. The Emperor's army
has usually been placed at 70,000. His soldiers were probably better trained than the Duke's
and combined with long service an abundance of enthusiasm for their old general, now restored
to his imperial throne and confident of victory.

The night before the battle had been wet and stormy, but the morning gave some promise of clearing;
the sky, however, remained overcast and some rain continued to fall. The French were weary
after a long march, and the artillery moved with difficulty across this wet and muddy plain.
Altogether they were in poor condition for a battle, in which all their fortunes were at stake.
It was just such a morning as ours, except that it was then June and is now January. If the
battle began at 8 o'clock, as one account reads, we are here on the Lion's Mound at that same
hour. Even if this be January, daisies are in blossom at our feet.

Jerome Bonaparte, leading the attack, moves on Hougoumont, where the Allies, who have come
down from Mont St. Jean, repulse him. He renews the attack "with redoubled fury," and a gallant
resistance is made, but he forces a way into the outer enclosure of the chateau that crowns
the hill. British howitzers are at once discharged upon the French and compel them to retreat.
New assaults are then made. Overwhelming numbers seem to bear down upon the Allies. The stronghold
is more than once nearly lost, but it is defended with "prodigies of valor" and firmly held
to the last. Had Hougoumont been taken, the result of the battle "would probably have been
very different."

Meanwhile, the Emperor has ordered a second attack elsewhere--this time against the left wing
of Wellington. Marshal Ney sends forward six divisions, who encounter the Netherlandish troops
and easily scatter them. Two brigades of British numbering 3,000 men then prepare to check
the advancing French. A struggle, brief but fierce, ensues, in which the French are repulsed.
They rally again, however, and Scotch Highlanders, their bagpipes sounding the cry, advance
against them, along with an English brigade. These make an impetuous assault, while cavalry
charge Napoleon's infantry, and force a part of them back on La Belle Alliance. But here the
pursuing British meet with a check in a scene of wild carnage that sweeps over the field.

We may look down upon the scene of that frightful struggle. It lies just below us. Grass is
growing there luxuriantly now. A north wind sweeps over the plain. A mournful requiem seems
to whistle through the poplar trees.

If we look toward Hougoumont, French gunners are seen to have been slain. Many cannon are silent.
With the chateau in flames, confusion reigns. Napoleon, ordering a new cavalry attack, directs
Jerome to advance with his infantry. Immediately the Allies discharge grape and canister on
the advancing host. But no Frenchman wavers. On the contrary, the French cavalry capture Wellington's
outward battalion and press onward toward his hollow squares of infantry. All efforts to break
these squares end in failure. For a time the French abandon the attack, but only to renew it
and then follows a remarkable scene. The French charge with unprecedented fury, and the squares
are partially broken, while friends and enemies, wounded or killed, are mingled in inextricable
confusion.

Some of the Belgian troops take flight and in mad terror run back to Brussels, causing great
consternation there by reporting a defeat for Wellington. The squares maintain their ground
to the end admirably, and with severe losses the French retire. Hougoumont near by, all this
time was not silent. The attack being continued, the commander is killed and at last its heights
are gained. From elsewhere in the field, Wellington learns of his loss, places himself at the
head of a brigade, and commands it to charge. Amid the utmost enthusiasm of the Allies the
French are driven back from Hougoumont.

Napoleon now turns his efforts against La Haye Sainte, a small height forward from Mont St.
Jean, occupied by the enemy's left wing. Ney, in a furious cannonade, begins the attack, in
which the Allies are overwhelmed and their ammunition is exhausted. Masters of this point,
the French again move on Hougoumont. It is seven o'clock in the evening, with Napoleon in fair
way to succeed, but his men are already exhausted and their losses are heavy. Some of them
plunge into that famous sunken road, unheeded of him and them, and still so great a mystery
to historians. It was a charging cavalry column that plunged in, unknowingly, rider and horse
together, in indescribable confusion and dismay. We may see that road to-day, for we have walked
in a part of it when coming across the plain from the station--a narrow road cut many feet
deep, its bed paved with little stones. Hugo's words on that frightful scene are these:

"There was the ravine, unlooked for, yawning at the very feet of the horses, two fathoms deep
between its double slope. The second rank pushed in the first, the third pushed in the second;
the horses reared, threw themselves over, fell upon their backs, and struggled with their feet
in the air, piling up and overturning their riders; no power to retreat; the whole column was
nothing but a projectile. The force acquired to crush the English crusht the French.

Two hours before this, Blücher, with his Prussians, had appeared--Blücher who was to turn the
tide of battle. He had promised Wellington to be there. His soldiers had complained bitterly
on the long march over muddy ground, but he told them his word as a soldier must be kept. From
far beyond La Belle Alliance had Blücher come, a cow boy showing him the way--a boy who, if
he had not known the way, or had lied, might have saved Napoleon from St. Helena. The ground
where Blücher entered the field is just visible to us from the mound as with strained eyes,
we peer through the morning mist. During Ney's attack, Blücher opens fire on La Haye Sainte.
By six o'clock he has forty-eight guns in action and some of the guns send shot as far as La
Belle Alliance. As the conflict deepens, Napoleon's fortunes are seen to be obviously in grave,
if not critical, danger, but he strengthens his right wing and again hazards Hougoumont. Eight
battalions are sent forward, an outlying stronghold is captured, but more Prussians advance
and threaten to regain the point.

At seven o'clock while Ney is renewing the attack on Hougoumont other Prussians appear. The
real crisis being at hand, Napoleon resolves on a final, concentrated movement against the
enemy's center. His soldiers being worn out and discouraged, he gives out a false report that
reinforcements are at last coming--that Grouchy has not failed him. A furious cannonade opens
this new attack, causing "frightful havoc" among the Allies. The Prince of Orange holds back
the French on the very ground where the lion is now elevated, but falls wounded. Napoleon,
in an address to the Imperial Guard, rouses them to great enthusiasm. For a half hour longer
the French bear down on the enemy, but British gunners make gaps in their ranks. With his horse
shot from under him, Ney goes forward on foot.

The Duke now takes personal command. He sends a shower of grape and cannister against a column
of French veterans, but they never waver. Reserves, suddenly called for, pour a fierce charge
against the advancing French, rending them asunder. The attack is closely followed up and the
French are driven down the hill. Elsewhere in the field the battle still rages. Blücher continues
his attack on Napoleon's right and forces it back. Reduced to despair, Napoleon now gives his
final and famous order: "Tout est perdu! Sauve qui peut." But the Young Guard resists Blücher.
Wellington, descending from his height, follows the retreating enemy as far as La Belle Alliance.
At eight o'clock, after a most sanguinary struggle, the Young Guard yields. The success of
Blücher elsewhere completes the victory of the Allies.

One man will never surrender--Cambronne. Who was Cambronne? No one can tell you more than this--he
was the man at Waterloo who would not surrender. "The Old Guard dies, but never surrenders."
"Among those giants then," says Hugo, "there was one Titan--Cambronne. The man who won the
battle of Waterloo was not Napoleon, put to rout; not Wellington, giving way at four o'clock,
desperate at five; not Blücher, who did not fight. The man who won the battle of Waterloo was
Cambronne. To fulminate at the thunderbolt which kills you, is victory."

As we look over this field from our height and try to realize what mighty fortunes were here
at stake, we note that the mementoes of that day are few. A Corinthian column and an obelisk
are seen at the roadside as memorials of the bravery of two officers. This Lion's Mound, two
hundred feet high and made from earth piled up by cart loads, commemorates the place where
a prince was wounded. Colossal in size, the lion was cast from French cannon captured in the
fight. On this broad plain upward of 50,000 men, who had mothers, sisters, and wives at home,
gave up their lives. Poplar trees sigh forth perpetually their funeral dirge. Grass grows where
their blood was poured out. Modern Europe can show few scenes of more sublime tragedy. Our
visiting day, with its chilling air and penetrating rain, has been a fit day for seeing Waterloo.
The old woman who served me with breakfast spoke English easily. It was well--doubly well.
No other language than English should be spoken on the field of Waterloo. I passed a few French
words with the boy who called off the dogs, but was afterward sorry for having done so.

ANTWERP[A]

[Footnote A: From "The Cathedrals and Churches of Belgium." Published by James Pott & Co.]

BY T. FRANCIS BUMPUS

Byzantium--Venice--Antwerp, these are the centers around which the modern world has revolved,
for we must include its commercial with its social progress, and with those interests which
develop with society. Indeed, the development of the arts has always run concurrently with
commerce. One could wish to add that the converse were equally true.

Antwerp--the city on the wharf--became famous at the beginning of the sixteenth century under
the reign of the enterprising Charles V. "Antwerp was then truly a leading city in almost all
things, but in commerce it headed all the cities of the world," says an old chronicler. Bruges,
the great banking center yielded her position, and the Hanseatic merchants removed to the banks
of the Scheldt. "I was astonished, and wondered much when I beheld Antwerp," wrote an envoy
of the Italian Republic, "for I saw Venice outdone."

In what direction Venice was outdone is not recorded. Not in her architecture, at least; scarcely
in her painting. We can not concede a Tintoretto for a Rubens. Yet, as Antwerp was the home
of Matsys, of Rubens, Van Dyck, and the Teniers, the home also of Christopher Plantin, the
great printer, her glory is not to be sought in trade alone. She is still remembered as a mother
of art and letters, while her mercantile preeminence belongs to a buried past.

It must, however, be confest that the fortunes of Antwerp as a city, prospering in its connection
with the Hanseatic League, were anything but advantageous to the student of architectural history.
Alterations and buildings were the order of the day, and so lavish were the means devoted to
the work that scarcely a vestige of architecture in the remains is of earlier date than the
fourteenth century.

The grandly dimensioned churches raised in every parish afford ample evidence of the zeal and
skill with which the work of reconstruction was prosecuted, and as specimens of the style of
their day can not fail to elicit our admiration by the nobility of their proportions, so that
in the monuments the wealthy burghers of Antwerp have left us we have perhaps no reason to
regret their zeal. At the same time, one is tempted to wish that they had spared the works
of earlier date by raising their new ones on fresh ground, instead of such wholesale demolition
of the labors of preceding generations.

Nôtre Dame at Antwerp, the most spacious church in the Netherlands, originated in a chapel
built for a miraculous image of the Blessed Virgin. This chapel was reconstructed in 1124,
when the canons of St. Michel, having ceded their church to the Praemonstratensians, removed
hither. Two centuries later, the canons of St. Michel, animated by the prevailing spirit, determined
on rebuilding their church on a more magnificent scale, and they commenced the work in 1352
by laying the foundations for a new choir. But slow progress was made with this great undertaking,
more than two centuries and a half elapsing before the church assumed that form with which
we are familiar to-day. In 1520, the chapter, dissatisfied with its choir, started upon the
erection of a new one, the first stone of which was laid in the following year by the Emperor
Charles V., accompanied by King Christian II. of Denmark and a numerous retinue.

The new plan included a crypt, partly above ground, probably like that we see in St. Paul's
in the same town, and the work was progressing when, in 1533, a disastrous fire did such damage
to the western parts of the church that the project of enlargement was suspended, and the funds
destined for its employment were applied to restoring the damaged portions. Had the design
been realized, the eastern limb of the church would have been doubled in size.

As regards its dimensions, Nôtre Dame at Antwerp is one of the most remarkable churches in
Europe, being nearly 400 feet long by 170 feet in width across the nave, which, inclusive of
that covered by the western towers, has seven bays, and three aisles on either side. This multiplication
of aisles gives a vast intricacy and picturesqueness to the cross views of the interior; but
there is a poverty of detail, and a want of harmony among the parts and of subordination and
proportion, sadly destructive of true architectural effect; so that, notwithstanding its size,
it looks much smaller internally than many of the French cathedrals of far less dimensions.
If there had been ten bays in the nave instead of only seven, and the central division had
been at least ten feet wider, which could easily have been spared from the outermost aisles,
the apparent size of the church would have been much greater. The outermost south aisle is
wider than the nave, and equal in breadth to the two inner aisles; the northernmost aisle is
not quite so broad.

The transepts have no aisles, but they are continued beyond the line of the nave aisles, so
that they are more than usually elongated. The two inner aisles of the nave open into the transepts,
but the outer ones, which, it should be remarked, are continuous, and not divided into a series
of chapels, are walled up at their eastern extremities.

The choir consists of three bays, but has only one aisle on either side. This is continued
round the apse, and five pentagonal chapels radiate from it. Three chapels flank the north
aisle of the choir, the first two opening, as does the north transept, into one large chapel
of the same breadth as the southernmost aisle of the nave.... The façade is flanked by towers
equal in width to the two inner aisles of the nave. The northern one has alone been completed,
and altho it may seem to a severe judgment to possess some of the defects of the late Flemish
style, it is rivaled for beauty of outline only by the flamboyant steeples of Chartres and
Vienna. As might be expected from its late age--it was not finished until 1530--this northwestern
spire of Notre Dame at Antwerp exhibits some extravagances in design and detail, but the mode
in which the octagonal lantern of openwork bisects the faces of the solid square portion with
its alternate angles, thus breaking the outline without any harsh or disagreeable transition,
is very masterly, while the bold pinnacles, with their flying buttresses, which group around
it, produce a most pleasing variety, the whole serving to indicate the appearance the steeple
of Malines would have presented had it been completed according to the original design.

If size were any real test of beauty, the interior or Notre Dame at Antwerp ought to be one
of the finest in Belgium. Unfortunately, altho it was begun at a time when the pointed style
had reached the full maturity of perfection, a colder and more unimpressive design than is
here carried out it would be difficult to find. Still, notwithstanding the long period that
elapsed between its commencement and completion, there is a congruity about the whole building
which is eminently pleasing, and to some extent redeems the defects in its details and proportions,
while the views afforded in various directions by the triple aisles on either side of the nave
are undeniably picturesque.

The high altarpiece, placed on the chord of the apse, is a noble and sumptuous example of early
Renaissance taste and workmanship, but like the stallwork, its dimensions are such as to diminish
the scale of the choir, the five arches opening to the procession path being completely obscured
by it. Of the numerous creations of Rubens' pencil none perhaps more thoroughly declares to
us his comprehension of religious decorative art than the "Assumption" which fills the arched
compartment in the lower portion of this altarpiece. It was finished in 1625, and, of twenty
repetitions of the subject, is the only example still preserved at the place it was intended
by the painter to occupy. In spirit we are reminded of Titian's "Assumption" in the cathedral
at Verona, but Rubens' proves perhaps a higher conception of the subject. The work is seen
a considerable way off, and every outline is bathed in light, so that the Virgin is elevated
to dazzling glory with a power of accession scarcely, if ever, attained by any master.

In the celebrated "Descent from the Cross," which hangs in the south transept, the boldness
of the composition, the energy in the characters, the striking attitudes and grouping, the
glowing, vigorous coloring, are astonishing proofs of Rubens' power. The circumstances which
gave rise to this wondrous effort of art are interesting. It is said that Rubens, in laying
the foundations of his villa near Antwerp, had unwittingly infringed on some ground belonging
to the Company of Gunsmiths (arquebusiers). A law suit was threatened, and Rubens prepared
to defend it, but, being assured by one of the greatest lawyers of the city that the right
lay with his opponents, he immediately drew back, and offered to paint a picture by way of
recompense. The offer was accepted, and the company required a representation of its patron
saint, St. Christopher, to be placed in its chapel in the cathedral, which at that time Notre
Dame was.

Rubens, with his usual liberality and magnificence, presented to his adversaries, not merely
a single representation of the saint, but an elaborate illustration of his name--The Christ-bearer.
The arquebusiers were at first disappointed not to have their saint represented in the usual
manner, and Rubens was obliged to enter into an explanation of his work. Thus, without knowing
it, they had received in exchange for a few feet of land a treasure which neither money nor
lands can now purchase. The painting was executed by Rubens soon after his seven years' residence
in Italy, and while the impression made by the work of Titian and Paul Veronese were yet fresh
in his mind. The great master appeared in the fulness of his glory in this work--it is one
of the few which exhibits in combination all that nature had given him of warmth and imagination--with
all that he acquired of knowledge, judgment and method, and in which he may be considered fully
to have overcome the difficulties of a subject which becomes painful, and almost repulsive,
when it ceases to be sublime.

VII

HOLLAND

HOW THE DUTCH OBTAINED THEIR LAND[A]

[Footnote A: From "Holland and Its People." Translated by Caroline Tilton. By special arrangement
with, and by permission of, the publishers, G.P. Putnam's Sons. Copyright, 1880.]

BY EDMONDO DE AMICIS

The first time that I crossed the old Rhine, I had stopt on the bridge, asking myself whether
that small and humble stream of water was really the same river that I had seen rushing in
thunder over the rocks at Schaffhausen, spreading majestically before Mayence, passing in triumph
under the fortress of Ehrenbreitstein, beating in sonorous cadence at the foot of the Seven
Mountains; reflecting in its course Gothic cathedrals, princely castles, fertile hills, steep
rocks, famous ruins, cities, groves, and gardens; everywhere covered with vessels of all sorts,
and saluted with music and song; and thinking of these things, with my gaze fixt upon the little
stream shut in between two flat and desert shores, I had repeated, "Is this that Rhine?"

The vicissitudes which accompany the agony and death of this great river in Holland, are such
as really to excite a sense of pity, such as is felt for the misfortunes and inglorious end
of a people once powerful and happy. From the neighborhood of Emmerich, before reaching the
Dutch frontier, it has lost all the beauty of its banks, and flows in great curves through
vast and ugly flats, which seem to mark the approach to old age. At Millingen it runs entirely
in the territory of Holland; a little farther on it divides. The main branch shamefully loses
its name, and goes to throw itself into the Meuse: the other branch, insulted by the title
of the Dannerden canal, flows nearly to the city of Arnehm, when it once more divides into
two branches. One empties into the Gulf of Zuyder-Zee; the other still called, out of compassion,
the Lower Rhine, goes as far as the village of Durstede, where it divides for the third time;
a humiliation now of old date.

One of these branches, changing its name like a coward, throws itself into the Meuse near Rotterdam;
the other still called the Rhine, but with the ridiculous surname of "curved," reaches Utrecht
with difficulty, where for the fourth time it again divides; capricious as an old man in his
dotage. One part, denying its old name, drags itself as far as Muiden, where it falls into
the Zuyder-Zee; the other, with the name of Old Rhine, or simply the Old, flows slowly to the
city of Leyden, whose streets it crosses almost without giving a sign of movement, and is finally
gathered into one canal by which it goes to its miserable death in the North Sea.

But it is not many years since this pitiful end was denied it. From the year 839, in which
a furious tempest had accumulated mountains of sand at its mouth, until the beginning of the
present century, the Old Rhine lost itself in the sand before reaching the sea, and covered
a vast tract of country with pools and marshes. Under the reign of Louis Bonaparte the waters
were collected into a large canal protected by three enormous sluicegates, and from that time
the Rhine flows directly to the sea. These sluices are the greatest monument in Holland and,
perhaps, the most admirable hydraulic work in Europe.

The dikes which protect the mouth of the canal, the walls, pillars, and gates, present altogether
the aspect of a Cyclopian fortress, against which it seems that not only that sea, but the
united forces of all seas, must break as against a granite mountain. When the tide rises the
gates are closed to prevent the waters from invading the land; when the tide recedes they are
opened to give passage to the waters of the Rhine which have accumulated behind them; and then
a mass of three thousand cubic feet of water passes through them in one minute. On days when
storms prevail, a concession is made to the sea, and the most advanced of the sluicegates is
left open; and then the furious billows rush into the canal, like an enemy entering by a breach,
but they break upon the formidable barrier of the second gate, behind which Holland stands
and cries, "Thus far shalt thou go, and no farther!" That enormous fortification which, on
a desert shore, defends a dying river and a fallen city from the ocean, has something of solemnity
which commands respect and admiration....

Napoleon said that it [Holland] was an alluvion of Trench rivers--the Rhine, the Scheldt, and
the Meuse--and with this pretext he added it to the empire. One writer has defined it as a
sort of transition between land and sea. Another, as an immense crust of earth floating on water.

But they all agreed upon one point, and all exprest it in the same words:--Holland is a conquest
made by man over the sea--it is an artificial country--the Hollanders made it--it exists because
the Hollanders preserve it--it will vanish whenever the Hollanders shall abandon it.

To comprehend this truth, we must imagine Holland as it was when first inhabited by the first
German tribes that wandered away in search of a country. It was almost uninhabitable. There
were vast tempestuous lakes, like seas, touching one another; morass beside morass; one tract
covered with brushwood after another; immense forests of pines, oaks, and alders, traversed
by herds of wild horses; and so thick were these forests that tradition says one could travel
leagues passing from tree to tree without ever putting foot to the ground. The deep bays and
gulfs carried into the heart of the country the fury of the northern tempests. Some provinces
disappeared once every year under the waters of the sea, and were nothing but muddy tracts,
neither land nor water, where it was impossible either to walk or to sail. The large rivers,
without sufficient inclination to descend to the sea, wandered here and there uncertain of
their day, and slept in monstrous pools and ponds among the sands of the coasts. It was a sinister
place, swept by furious winds, beaten by obstinate rains, veiled in a perpetual fog, where
nothing was heard but the roar of the sea, and the voice of wild beasts and birds of the ocean.

Now, if we remember that such a region has become one of the most fertile, wealthiest and best
regulated of the countries of the world, we shall understand the justice of the saying that
Holland is a conquest made by man. But, it must be added, the conquest goes on forever.

To drain the lakes of the country the Hollanders prest the air into their service. The lakes,
the marshes, were surrounded by dikes, the dikes by canals; and an army of windmills, putting
in motion force-pumps, turned the water into the canals, which carried it off to the rivers
and the sea. Thus vast tracts of land buried under the water, saw the sun, and were transformed,
as if by magic, into fertile fields, covered with villages, and intersected by canals and roads.
In the seventeenth century, in less than forty years, twenty-six lakes were drained. Substituting
steam-mills for windmills, in thirty-nine months was completed the great undertaking of the
draining of the lake of Haarlem, which measured forty-four-kilometers in circumference, and
for ever threatened with its tempests the cities of Haarlem, Amsterdam, and Leyden. And they
are now meditating the prodigious work of drying up the Zuyder-Zee, which embraces an area
of more than seven hundred square kilometers.

But the most tremendous struggle was the battle with the ocean. Holland is in great part lower
than the level of the sea; consequently, everywhere that the coast is not defended by sand-banks,
it has to be protected by dikes. If these interminable bulkwarks of earth, granite, and wood
were not there to attest the indomitable courage and perseverance of the Hollanders, it would
not be believed that the hand of man could, even in many centuries have accomplished such a
work. In Zealand alone the dikes extend to a distance of more than four hundred kilometers.
The western coast of the island of Walcheren is defended by a dike, in which it is computed
that the expense of construction added to that of preservation, if it were put out at interest,
would amount to a sum equal in value to that which the dike itself would be worth were it made
of massive copper.

Around the city of Helder, at the northern extremity of North Holland, extends a dike ten kilometers
long, constructed of masses of Norwegian granite, which descends more than sixty meters into
the sea. The whole province of Friesland, for the length of eighty-eight kilometers, is defended
by three rows of piles sustained by masses of Norwegian and German granite. Amsterdam, all
the cities of the Zuyder Zee, and all the islands--fragments of vanished lands--which are strung
like beads between Friesland and North Holland, are protected by dikes. From the mouths of
the Ems to those of the Scheldt Holland is an impenetrable fortress, of whose immense bastions
the mills are the towers, the cataracts are the gates, the islands the advanced forts; and
like a true fortress, it shows to its enemy, the sea, only the tops of its bell-towers and
the roofs of its houses, as if in defiance and derision.

Holland is a fortress, and her people live as in a fortress on a war-footing with the sea.
An army of engineers, directed by the Minister of the Interior, spread over the country, and
ordered like an army, continually spy the enemy, watch over the internal waters, foresee the
bursting of the dikes, order and direct the defensive works. The expenses of the war are divided;
one part to the State, one part to the provinces; every proprietor pays, besides the general
imposts, a special impost for the dikes, in proportion to the extent of his lands and their
proximity to the water. An accidental rupture, an inadvertence, may cause a flood; the peril
is unceasing; the sentinels are at their posts upon the bulwarks at the first assault of the
sea; they shout the war-cry, and Holland sends men, material, and money. And even when there
is not a great battle, a quiet, silent struggle is for ever going on.

The innumerable mills, even in the drained districts, continue to work unresting, to absorb
and turn into the canals the water that falls in rain and that which filters in from the sea.

But Holland has done more than defend herself against the waters; she has made herself mistress
of them, and has used them for her own defense. Should a foreign army invade her territory,
she has but to open her dikes and unchain the sea and the rivers, as she did against the Romans,
against the Spaniards, against the army of Louis XIV., and defend the land cities with her
fleet. Water was the source of her poverty, she has made it the source of wealth. Over the
whole country extends an immense net-work of canals which serve both for the irrigation of
the land and as a means of communication. The cities, by means of canals, communicate with
the sea; canals run from town to town, and from them to villages, which are themselves bound
together by these watery ways, and are connected even to the houses scattered over the country;
smaller canals surround the fields and orchards, pastures and kitchen-gardens, serving at once
as boundary-wall, hedge, and roadway; every house is a little port. Ships, boats, rafts move
about in all directions, as in other places carts and carriages. The canals are the arteries
of Holland, and the water her life-blood.

But even setting aside the canals, the draining of the lakes, and the defensive works, on every
side are seen the traces of marvelous undertakings. The soil, which in other countries is a
gift of nature, is in Holland a work of men's hands. Holland draws the greater part of her
wealth from commerce; but before commerce comes the cultivation of the soil; and the soil had
to be created. There were sand-banks, interspersed with layers of peat, broad downs swept by
the winds, great tracts of barren land apparently condemned to an external sterility. The first
elements of manufacture, iron and coal, were wanting; there was no wood, because the forests
had already been destroyed by tempests when agriculture began; there was no stone, there were
no metals.

Nature, says a Dutch poet, had refused all her gifts to Holland; the Hollanders had to do everything
in spite of nature. They began by fertilizing the sand. In some places they formed a productive
soil with earth brought from a distance, as a garden is made; they spread the siliceous dust
of the downs over the too watery meadows; they mixed with the sandy earth the remains of peat
taken from the bottoms; they extracted clay to lend fertility to the surface of their lands;
they labored to break up the downs with the plow; and thus in a thousand ways, and continually
fighting off the menacing waters, they succeeded in bringing Holland to a state of cultivation
not inferior to that of more favored regions. That Holland, the sandy, marshy country that
the ancients considered all but uninhabitable, now sends out yearly from her confines agricultural
products to the value of a hundred millions of francs, possesses about one million three hundred
thousand head of cattle, and, in proportion to the extent of her territory, may be accounted
one of the most populous of European states.

But however wonderful may be the physical history of Holland, her political history is still
more so.

ROTTERDAM AND THE HAGUE[A]

[Footnote A: From "Holland and Its People."

The whole city of Rotterdam presents the appearance of a town that has been shaken smartly
by an earthquake, and is on the point of the falling ruin. All the houses--in any street one
may count the exceptions on their fingers--lean more or less, but the greater part of them
so much that at the roof they lean forward at least a foot beyond their neighbors, which may
be straight, or not so visibly inclined; one leans forward as if it would fall into the street;
another backward, another to the left, another to the right, at some points six or seven contiguous
houses all lean forward together, those in the middle most, those at the ends lass, looking
like a paling with a crowd pressing against it. At another point, two houses lean together
as if supporting one another. In certain streets the houses for a long distance lean all one
way, like trees beaten by a prevailing wind; and then another long row will lean in the opposite
direction, as if the wind had changed.

Sometimes there is a certain regularity of inclination that is scarcely noticeable; and again,
at crossings and in the smaller streets, there is an indescribable confusion of lines, a real
architectural frolic, a dance of houses, a disorder that seems animated. There are houses that
nod forward as if asleep, others that start backward as if frightened, some bending toward
each other, their roofs almost touching, as if in secret conference; some falling upon one
another as if they were drunk, some leaning backward between others that lean forward, like
malefactors dragged onward by their guards; rows of houses that curtsey to a steeple, groups
of small houses all inclined toward one in the middle, like conspirators in conclave.

Broad and long canals divide the city into so many islands, united by drawbridges, turning
bridges, and bridges of stone. On either side of every canal extends a street, flanked by trees
on one side and houses on the other. All these canals are deep enough to float large vessels,
and all are full of them from one end to the other, except a space in the middle left for passage
in and out. An immense fleet imprisoned in a city.

When I arrived it was the busiest hour, so I planted myself upon the highest bridge over the
principal crossing. From thence were visible four canals, four forests of ships, bordered by
eight files of trees; the streets were crammed with people and merchandise; droves of cattle
were crossing the bridges; bridges were rising in the air, or opening in the middle, to allow
vessels to pass through, and were scarcely replaced or closed before they were inundated by
a throng of people, carts, and carriages; ships came and went in the canals, shining like models
in a museum, and with the wives and children of the sailors on the decks; boats darted from
vessel to vessel; the shops drove a busy trade; servant-women washed the walls and windows;
and all this moving life was rendered more gay and cheerful by the reflections in the water,
the green of the trees, the red of the houses, the tall windmills, showing their dark tops
and white sails against the azure of the sky, and still more by an air of quiet simplicity
not seen in any other northern city.

From canal to canal, and from bridge to bridge, I finally reached the dike of the Boompjes
upon the Meuse, where boils and bubbles all the life of the great commercial city. On the left
extends a long row of small many-colored steamboats, which start every hour in the day for
Dordrecht, Arnhem, Gonda, Schiedam, Brilla, Zealand, and continually send forth clouds of white
smoke and the sound of their cheerful bells. To the right lie the large ships which make the
voyage to various European ports, mingled with fine three-masted vessels bound for the East
Indies, with names written in golden letters--Java, Sumatra, Borneo, Samarang--carrying the
fancy to those distant and savage countries like the echoes of distant voices. In front the
Meuse, covered with boats and barks, and the distant shore with a forest of beech trees, windmills,
and towers; and over all the unquiet sky, full of gleams of light, and gloomy clouds, fleeting
and changing in their constant movement, as if repeating the restless labor on the earth below.

Rotterdam, it must be said here, is, in commercial importance, the first city in Holland after
Amsterdam. It was already a flourishing town in the thirteenth century. Ludovico Guicciardini,
in his work on the Low Countries, adduces a proof of the wealth of the city in the sixteenth
century, saying that in one year nine hundred houses that had been destroyed by fire were rebuilt.
Bentivoglio, in his history of the war in Flanders, calls it "the largest and most mercantile
of the lands of Holland." But its greatest prosperity did not begin until 1830, or after the
separation of Holland and Belgium, when Rotterdam seemed to draw to herself everything that
was lost by her rival, Antwerp.

Her situation is extremely advantageous. She communicates with the sea by the Meuse, which
brings to her ports in a few hours the largest merchantmen; and by the same river she communicates
with the Rhine, which brings to her from the Swiss mountains and Bavaria immense quantities
of timber--entire forests that come to Holland to be transformed into ships, dikes, and villages.
More than eighty splendid vessels come and go, in the space of nine months, between Rotterdam
and India. Merchandise flows in from all sides in such great abundance that a large part of
it has to be distributed through the neighboring towns....

Rotterdam, in short, has a future more splendid than that of Amsterdam, and has long been regarded
as a rival by her elder sister. She does not possess the wealth of the capital; but is more
industrious in increasing what she has; she dares, risks, undertakes like a young and adventurous
city. Amsterdam, like a merchant grown cautious after having made his fortune by hazardous
undertakings, begins to doze over her treasures. In spite of this pompous eulogium, however,
poor Erasmus, planted there like a municipal guard in the market-place, makes but a pitiful
figure. I do not believe that there is in the world another statue of a man of letters that
is, like this, neglected by the passer-by, despised by those about it, commiserated by those
who look at it. But who knows whether Erasmus, acute philosopher as he was, and must be still,
be not contented with his corner, the more that it is not far from his own house, if the tradition
is correct? In a small street near the market-place, in the wall of a little house now occupied
as a tavern, there is a niche with a bronze statuette representing the great writer, and under
it the inscription: "This is the little house in which the great Erasmus was born." ...

Rotterdam in the evening presents an unusual aspect to the stranger's eye. While in other northern
cities at a certain hour of the night all the life is concentered in the houses, at Rotterdam
at that hour it expands into the streets. The Hoog-straat is filled until far into the night
with a dense throng, the shops are open, because the servants make their purchases in the evening,
and the cafés crowded. Dutch cafés are peculiar. In general there is one long room, divided
in the middle by a green curtain, which is drawn down at evening and conceals the back part,
which is the only part lighted; the front part, closed from the street by large glass doors,
is in darkness, so that from without only dark shadowy forms can be seen, and the burning points
of cigars, like so many fireflies. Among these dark forms the vague profile of a woman who
prefers darkness to light may be detected here and there....

Walking through Rotterdam in the evening, it is evident that the city is teeming with life
and in process of expansion; a youthful city, still growing, and feeling herself every year
more and more prest for room in her streets and houses. In a not far distant future, her hundred
and fourteen thousand inhabitants will have increased to two hundred thousand.[A] The smaller
streets swarm with children; there is an overflow of life and movement that cheers the eye
and heart; a kind of holiday air. The white and rosy faces of the servant-maids, whose white
caps gleam on every side; the serene visages of shopkeepers slowly imbibing great glassfuls
of beer; the peasants with their monstrous ear-rings; the cleanliness; the flowers in the windows;
the tranquil and laborious throng; all give to Rotterdam an aspect of healthful and peaceful
content, which brings to the lips the chant of "Te Beata," not with the cry of enthusiasm,
but with the smile of sympathy....

[Footnote A: The population now (1914) is 418,000, as stated In the New Standard Dictionary.]

The Hague--in Dutch, s'Gravenhage, or s'Hage--the political capital, the Washington of Holland,
Amsterdam being the New York--is a city half Dutch and half French, with broad streets and
no canals; vast squares full of trees, elegant houses, splendid hotels, and a population mostly
made up of the rich, nobles, officials, artists, and literati, the populace being of a more
refined order than that of the other Dutch cities.

In my first turn about the town what struck me most were the new quarters, where dwells the
flower of the wealthy aristocracy. In no other city, not even in the Faubourg St. Germain at
Paris, did I feel myself such a very poor devil as in those streets. They are wide and straight,
flanked by palaces of elegant form and delicate color, with large shutterless windows, through
which can be seen the rich carpets and sumptuous furniture of the first floors. Every door
is closed; and there is not a shop, nor a placard, nor a stain, nor a straw to be seen if you
were to look for it with a hundred eyes. The silence was profound when I passed by. Only now
and then I encountered some aristocratic equipage rolling almost noiselessly over the brick
pavement, or the stiffest of lackeys stood before a door, or the blonde head of a lady was
visible behind a curtain. Passing close to the windows and beholding my shabby traveling dress
ruthlessly reflected in the plate-glass I experienced a certain humiliation at not having been
born at least a Cavalière, and imagined I heard low voices whispering disdainfully: "Who is
that low person?"

Of the older portion of the city, the most considerable part is the Binnenhof, a group of old
buildings of different styles of architecture, which looks on two sides upon vast squares,
and on the third over a great marsh. In the midst of this group of palaces, towers, and monumental
doors, of a medieval and sinister aspect, there is a spacious court, which is entered by three
bridges and three gates.

The Binnenhof, the square to the west, called the Bintenhof, and another square beyond the
marsh, called the Plaats, into which you enter by an old gate that once formed part of a prison,
were the theaters of the most sanguinary events in the history of Holland.

In the Binnenhof was decapitated the venerated Van Olden Barneveldt, the second founder of
the republic, the most illustrious victim of that ever-recurring struggle between the burgher
aristocracy and the Statholderate, between the republican and the monarchical principle, which
worked so miserably in Holland. The scaffold was erected in front of the edifice where the
States General sat. Opposite is the tower from which it is said that Maurice of Orange, himself
unseen, beheld the last moments of his enemy.

The finest ornament of the Hague is its forest; a true wonder of Holland, and one of the most
magnificent promenades in the world. It is a wood of alder-trees, oaks, and the largest beeches
that are to be found in Europe, on the eastern side of the city, a few paces from the last
fringe of houses, and measuring about one French league in circuit; a truly delightful oasis
in the midst of the melancholy Dutch plains. As you enter it, little Swiss châlets find kiosks,
scattered here and there among the first trees, seem to have strayed and lost themselves in
an endless and solitary forest. The trees are as thickly set as a cane-brake, and the alleys
vanish in dark perspective.

There are lakes and canals almost hidden under the verdure of their banks; rustic bridges,
deserted paths, dim recesses, darkness cool and deep, in which one breathes the air of virgin
nature, and feels oneself far from the noises of the world. This wood, like that of Haarlem,
is said to be the remains of an immense forest that covered, in ancient times, almost all the
coast, and is respected by the Dutch people as a monument of their national history.

HAARLEM[A]

[Footnote A: From "Holland of To-day."]

BY AUGUSTUS J.C. HARE

A few minutes bring us from Leyden to Haarlem by the railway. It crosses an isthmus between
the sea and a lake which covered the whole country between Leyden, Haarlem, and Amsterdam till
1839, when it became troublesome, and the States-General forthwith, after the fashion of Holland,
voted its destruction. Enormous engines were at once employed to drain it by pumping the water
into canals, which carried it to the sea, and the country was the richer by a new province.

Haarlem, on the river Spaarne, stands out distinct in recollection from all other Dutch towns,
for it has the most picturesque market-place in Holland--the Groote Markt--surrounded by quaint
houses of varied outline, amid which rises the Groote Kerk of S. Bavo, a noble cruciform fifteenth-century
building. The interior, however, is as bare and hideous as all other Dutch churches. It contains
a monument to the architect Conrad, designer of the famous locks of Katwijk, "the defender
of Holland against the fury of the sea and the power of tempests." Behind the choir is the
tomb of the poet Bilderijk, who only died in 1831, and near this the grave of Laurenz Janzoom--the
Coster or Sacristan--who is asserted in his native town, but never believed outside it, to
have been the real inventor of printing, as he is said to have cut out letters in wood, and
taken impressions from them in ink, as early as 1423. His partizans also maintain that while
he was attending a midnight mass, praying for patience to endure the ill-treatment of his enemies,
all his implements were stolen, and that when he found this out on his return he died of grief.

It is further declared that the robber was Faust of Mayence, the partner of Gutenburg, and
that it was thus that the honor of the invention passed from Holland to Germany where Gutenberg
produced his invention of movable type twelve years later. There is a statue of the Coster
in front of the church, and, on its north side, his house is preserved and adorned with his bust.

Among a crowd of natives with their hats on, talking in church as in the market-place, we waited
to hear the famous organ of Christian Muller (1735-38), and grievously were we disappointed
with its discordant noises. All the men smoked in church, and this we saw repeatedly; but it
would be difficult to say where we ever saw a Dutchman with a pipe out of his mouth. Every
man seemed to be systematically smoking away the few wits he possest.

Opposite the Groote Kerk is the Stadhuis, an old palace of the Counts of Holland remodeled.
It contains a delightful little gallery of the works of Franz Hals, which at once transports
the spectator into the Holland of two hundred years ago--such is the marvelous variety of life
and vigor imprest into its endless figures of stalwart officers and handsome young archers
pledging each other at banquet tables and seeming to welcome the visitor with jovial smiles
as he enters the chamber, or of serene old ladies, "regents" of hospitals, seated at their
council boards. The immense power of the artist is shown in nothing so much as in the hands,
often gloved, dashed in with instantaneous power, yet always having the effect of the most
consummate finish at a distance. Behind one of the pictures is the entrance to the famous "secret-room
of Haarlem," seldom seen, but containing an inestimable collection of historic relics of the
time of the famous siege of Leyden.

April and May are the best months for visiting Haarlem, which is the bulb nursery garden of
the world. "Oignons à fleurs" are advertised for sale everywhere. Tulips are more cultivated
than any other flower, as ministering most of the national craving for color; but times are
changed since a single bulb of the tulip "L'Amiral Liefkenshoch" sold for 4,500 florins, one
of "Viceroy" for 4,200, and one of "Semper Augustus" for 13,000.

SCHEVENINGEN[A]

[Footnote A: From "Holland of To-Day." By special arrangement with, and by permission of, the
author and of the publishers, Moffat, Yard & Co. Copyright, 1909.]

BY GEORGE WHARTON EDWARDS

Let us go down to the North Sea and see how the Dutch people enjoy themselves in the summer.
Of course the largest of the watering-places in the Netherlands is Scheveningen, and it has
a splendid bathing beach which makes it an attractive resort for fashionable Germans and Hollanders,
and for summer travelers from all over the world. At the top of the long dyke is a row of hotels
and restaurants, and when one reaches this point after passing through the lovely old wood
of stately trees one is ushered into the twentieth century, for here all is fashion and gay
life, yet with a character all its own.

Along the edge of the beach are the bathing machines in scores, and behind them are long lines
of covered wicker chairs of peculiar form, each with its foot-stool, where one may sit, shaded,
from the sun and sheltered from the wind, and read, chat or doze by the hour. Bath women are
seen quaintly clad with their baskets of bathing dresses and labeled with the signs bearing
their names, such as Trintje or Netje; everywhere there are sightseers, pedlers calling their
wares, children digging in the sand, strolling players performing and the sound of bands of
music in the distance. So there is no lack of amusement here during the season.

The spacious Kurhaus with its verandas and Kursaal, which is large enough to accommodate 2,500
people, is in the center of the dike. There are concerts every evening, and altho the town
is filled with hotels, during the months of June, July, August, and September they are quite
monopolized by the Hollanders and the prices are very high.

The magnificent pier is 450 yards long. The charges for bathing are very moderate, varying
from twenty cents for a small bathing box to fifty cents for a large one, including the towels.
Bathing costumes range from five to twenty-five cents. The tickets are numbered, and as soon
as a machine is vacant a number is called by the "bath man" and the holder of the corresponding
number claims the machine. The basket chairs cost for the whole day twenty cents, Dutch money.
One may obtain a subscription to the "Kurhaus" at a surprisingly reasonable rate for the day,
week or season. There is a daily orchestra; ballet and operatic concerts once a week; dramatic
performances and frequent hops throughout the season.

There is a local saying that when good Dutchmen die they go to Scheveningen, and this is certainly
their heaven. To stand on the pier on a fine day during the season looking down on these long
lines of wicker chairs, turned seaward, is an astonishing sight. They are shaped somewhat like
huge snail-shells, and around these the children delight to dig in the sand, throwing up miniature
dunes around one. Perhaps no seashore in the world has been painted so much as Scheveningen.
Mesdag, Maris, Alfred Stevens, to name only a few of the artists, have found here themes for
many paintings, and the scene is a wonderful one when the homing fleet of "Boms," as the fishing-boats
are called, appears in the offing to be welcomed by the fisherwomen. There are other smaller
watering-places on the coast, but Scheveningen is unique.

In the little fishing town itself, the scene on the return of the men is very interesting.
Women and children are busily hurrying about from house to house, and everywhere in the little
streets are strange signs chalked up on the shutters, such as "water en vuur te koop," that
is water and fire for sale; and here are neatly painted buckets of iron, each having a kettle
of boiling water over it and a lump of burning turf at the bottom. Fish is being cleaned and
the gin shops are well patronized, for it seems a common habit in this moist northern climate
frequently to take "Een sneeuw-balletje" of gin and sugar, which does not taste at all badly,
be it said. All sorts of strange-looking people are met in the little narrow street, and all
doing strange-looking things, but with the air of its being in no wise unusual with them. All
in all, Scheveningen is an entertaining spot in which to linger.

DELFT[A]

[Footnote A: From "Sketches in Holland and Scandinavia."]

BY AUGUSTUS J.C. HARE

An excursion must be made to Delft, only twenty minutes distant from The Hague by rail. Pepys
calls it "a most sweet town, with bridges and a river in every street," and that is a tolerably
accurate description. It seems thinly inhabited, and the Dutch themselves look upon it as a
place where one will die of ennui. It has scarcely changed with two hundred years. The view
of Delft by Van der Meer in the Museum at The Hague might have been painted yesterday. All
the trees are dipt, for in artificial Holland every work of Nature is artificialized. At certain
seasons, numbers of storks may be seen upon the chimney-tops, for Delft is supposed to be the
stork town par excellence. Near the shady canal Oude Delft is a low building, once the Convent
of St. Agata, with an ornamental door surmounted by a relief, leading into a courtyard. It
is a common barrack now, for Holland, which has no local histories, has no regard whatever
for its historic associations or monuments. Yet this is the greatest shrine of Dutch history,
for it is here that William the Silent died.

Philip II. had promised 25,000 crowns of gold to any one who would murder the Prince of Orange.
An attempt had already been made, but had failed, and William refused to take any measures
for self-protection, saying, "It is useless: my years are in the hands of God; if there is
a wretch who has no fear of death, my life is in his hand, however I may guard it."

At length, a young man of seven-and-twenty appeared at Delft, who gave himself out to be one
Guyon, a Protestant, son of Pierre Guyon, executed at Besançon for having embraced Calvinism,
and declared that he was exiled for his religion. Really he was Balthazar Gerard, a bigoted
Catholic, but his conduct in Holland soon procured him the reputation of an evangelical saint.

The Prince took him into his service and sent him to accompany a mission from the States of
Holland to the Court of France, whence he returned to bring the news of the death of the Duke
of Anjou to William. At that time the Prince was living with his court in the convent of St.
Agata, where he received Balthazar alone in his chamber. The moment was opportune, but the
would-be assassin had no arms ready. William gave him a small sum of money and bade him hold
himself in readiness to be sent back to France.

With the money Balthazar bought two pistols from a soldier (who afterward killed himself when
he heard the use which was made of the purchase). On the next day, June 10, 1584, Balthazar
returned to the convent as William was descending the staircase to dinner, with his fourth
wife, Louise de Coligny (daughter of the Admiral who fell in the massacre of St. Bartholomew),
on his arm. He presented his passport and begged the Prince to sign it, but was told to return
later. At dinner the Princess asked William who was the young man who had spoken to him, for
his expression was the most terrible she had ever seen.

The Prince laughed, said it was Guyon, and was as gay as usual. Dinner being over, the family
party were about to remount the staircase. The assassin was waiting in a dark corner at the
foot of the stairs, and as William passed he discharged a pistol with three balls and fled.
The Prince staggered, saying, "I am wounded; God have mercy upon me and my poor people." His
sister Catherine van Schwartz-bourg asked, "Do you trust in Jesus Christ?" He said, "Yes,"
with a feeble voice, sat down upon the stairs, and died.

Balthazar reached the rampart of the town in safety, hoping to swim to the other side of the
moat, where a horse awaited him. But he had dropt his hat and his second pistol in his flight,
and so he was traced and seized before he could leap from the wall.

Amid horrible tortures, he not only confest, but continued to triumph in his crime. His judges
believed him to be possest of the devil. The next day he was executed. His right hand was burned
off in a tube of red-hot iron; the flesh of his arms and legs was torn off with red-hot pincers;
but he never made a cry. It was not till his breast was cut open, and his heart torn out and
flung in his face, that he expired. His head was then fixt on a pike, and his body, cut into
four quarters, exposed on the four gates of the town.

Close to the Prinsenhof is the Oude Kerk with a leaning tower. It is arranged like a very ugly
theater inside, but contains, with other tombs of celebrities, the monument of Admiral van
Tromp, 1650--"Martinus Harberti Trompius"--whose effigy lies upon his back, with swollen feet.
It was this Van Tromp who defeated the English fleet under Blake, and perished, as represented
on the monument, in an engagement off Scheveningen. It was he who, after his victory over the
English, caused a broom to be hoisted at his mast-head to typify that he had swept the Channel
clear of his enemies.

I had hardly arrived when the chill of a dead city seemed to fall upon me. The old Rhine, which
crosses Leyden, dividing it into many islets joined together by one hundred and fifty stone
bridges, forms wide canals and basins which contain no ship or boat, and the city seems rather
invaded by the waters than merely crossed by them. The principal streets are very broad and
flanked by rows of old blockhouses with the usual pointed gables, and the few people seen in
the streets and squares are like the survivors of a city depopulated by the plague.

In the smaller streets you walk upon long tracts of grass, between houses with closed doors
and windows, in a silence as profound as that of those fabled cities where all the inhabitants
are sunk in a supernatural sleep. You pass over bridges overgrown with weeds, and long canals
covered with a green carpet, through small squares that seem like convent courtyards; and then,
suddenly, you reach a broad thoroughfare, like the streets of Paris; from which you again penetrate
into a labyrinth of narrow alleys. From bridge to bridge, from canal to canal, from island
to island, you wander for hours seeking for the life and movement of the ancient Leyden, and
finding only solitude, silence, and the waters which reflect the melancholy majesty of the
fallen city.

In 1573 the Spaniards, led by Valdez, laid siege to Leyden. In the city there were only some
volunteer soldiers. The military command was given to Van der Voes, a valiant man, and a Latin
poet of some renown. Van der Werf was burgomaster. In brief time the besiegers had constructed
more than sixty forts in all the places where it was possible to penetrate into the city by
sea or land, and Leyden was completely isolated. But the people of Leyden did not lose heart.
William of Orange had sent them word to hold out for three months, within which time he would
succor them, for on the fate of Leyden depended that of Holland; and the men of Leyden had
promised to resist to the last extremity....

The Prince of Orange received the news of the safety of the city at Delft, in church, where
he was present at divine service. He sent the message at once to the preacher, and the latter
announced it to the congregation, who received it with shouts of joy. Altho only just recovered
from his illness, and the epidemic still raging at Leyden, William would see at once his dear
and valorous city. He went there; his entry was a triumph; his majestic and serene aspect put
new heart into the people; his words made them forget all they had suffered. To reward Leyden
for her heroic defense, he left her her choice between exemption from certain imposts or the
foundation of a university. Leyden chose the university.

How this university answered to the hopes of Leyden, it is superfluous to say. Everybody knows
how the States of Holland with their liberal offers drew learned men from every country; how
philosophy, driven out of France, took refuge there; how Leyden was for a long time the securest
citadel for all men who were struggling for the triumph of human reason; how it became at length
the most famous school in Europe. The actual university is in an ancient convent. One can not
enter without a sentiment of profound respect the great hall of the Academic Senate, where
are seen the portraits of all the professors who have succeeded each other from the foundation
of the university up to the present day.

DORTRECHT[A]

[Footnote A: From "Sketches in Holland and Scandinavia."]

BY AUGUSTUS J.C. HARE

Our morning at Dortrecht was very delightful, and it is a thoroughly charming place. Passing
under a dark archway in a picturesque building of Charles V., opposite the hotel, we found
ourselves at once on the edge of an immense expanse of shimmering river, with long, rich meadows
beyond, between which the wide flood breaks into three different branches. Red and white sails
flit down them. Here and there rises a line of pollard willows or clipt elms, and now and then
a church spire. On the nearest shore an ancient windmill, colored in delicate tints of gray
and yellow, surmounts a group of white buildings.

On the left is a broad esplanade of brick, lined with ancient houses, and a canal with a bridge,
the long arms of which are ready to open at a touch and give a passage to the great yellow-masted
barges, which are already half intercepting the bright red house-fronts ornamented with stone,
which belong to some public buildings facing the end of the canal. With what a confusion of
merchandise are the boats laden, and how gay is the coloring, between the old weedy posts to
which they are moored!

It was from hence that Isabella of France, with Sir John de Hainault and many other faithful
knights set on their expedition against Edward II. and the government of the Spencers.

From the busy port, where nevertheless they are dredging, we cross another bridge and find
ourselves in a quietude like that of a cathedral close in England. On one side is a wide pool
half covered with floating timber, and, in the other half, reflecting like a mirror the houses
on the opposite shore, with their bright gardens of lilies and hollyhocks, and trees of mountain
ash, which bend their masses of scarlet berries to the still water. Between the houses are
glints of blue river and of inevitable windmills on the opposite shore. And all this we observe
standing in the shadow of a huge church, the Groote Kerk, with a nave of the fourteenth century,
and a choir of the fifteenth and a gigantic trick tower, in which three long Gothic arches,
between octagonal tourelles, enclose several tiers of windows. At the top is a great clock,
and below the church a grove of elms, through which fitful sunlight falls on the grass and
the dead red of the brick pavement (so grateful to feet sore with the sharp stones of other
Dutch cities), where groups of fishermen are collecting in their blue shirts and white trousers.

There is little to see inside this or any other church in Holland; travelers will rather seek
for the memorials at the Kloveniers Doelen, of the famous Synod of Dort, which was held 1618-19,
in the hope of effecting a compromise between the Gomarists, or disciples of Calvin, and the
Arminians who followed Zwingli, and who had recently obtained the name of Remonstrants from
the "remonstrance" which they had addrest eight years before in defense of their doctrines.
The Calvinists held that the greater part of mankind was excluded from grace, which the Arminians
denied; but at the Synod of Dort the Calvinists proclaimed themselves as infallible as the
Pope, and their resolutions became the law of the Dutch Reformed Church. The Arminians were
forthwith outlawed; a hundred ministers who refused to subscribe to the dictates of the Synod
were banished; Hugo Grotius and Rombout Hoogerbeets were imprisoned for life at Loevestein;
the body of the secretary Ledenberg, was hung; and Van Olden Barneveldt, the friend of William
the Silent, was beheaded in his seventy-second year....

Through the street of wine--Wijnstraat--built over stonehouses used for the staple, we went
to the museum to see the pictures. There were two schools of Dortrecht. Jacob Geritee Cuyp
(1575); Albert Cuyp (1605), Ferdinand Bol (1611), Nicolas Maas (1632), and Schalken (1643)
belonged to the former; Arend de Gelder, Arnold Houbraken, Dirk Stoop, and Ary Scheffer are
of the latter. Sunshine and glow were the characteristics of the first school, grayness and
sobriety of the second. But there are few good pictures at Dort now, and some of the best works
of Cuyp are to be found in our National Gallery, [London] executed at his native place and
portraying the great brick tower of the church in the golden haze of evening, seen across rich
pastures, where the cows are lying deep in the meadow grass. The works of Ary Scheffer are
now the most interesting pictures in the Dortrecht Gallery. Of the subject, "Christus Consolator,"
there are two representations. In the more striking of these the pale Christ is seated among
the sick, sorrowful, blind, maimed, and enslaved, who are all stretching their hands to Him.
Beneath is the tomb which the artist executed for his mother, Cornelia Scheffer, whose touching
figure is represented lying with outstretched hands, in the utmost abandonment of repose. North
Holland touched Friesland, and where the gulf now extends there was a vast region sprinkled
with fresh-water lakes, the largest of which, the Flevo, mentioned by Tacitus, was separated
from the sea by a fertile and populous isthmus. Whether the sea by its own force broke through
the natural dikes of the region, or whether the sinking of the land left it free to invasion,
is not certainly known. The great transformation was completed during the course of the thirteenth
century.

About the formation of this gulf there has collected a varied and confused history of cities
destroyed and people drowned, to which has been added in later times another history, of new
cities rising on new shores, becoming powerful and famous, and being in their turn reduced
to poor and mean villages, with streets overgrown with grass, and sand-choked ports. Records
of great calamities, wonderful traditions, fantastic horrors, strange usages and customs, are
found upon the waters and about the shores of this peculiar sea, born but yesterday, and already
encircled with ruins and condemned to disappear; and a month's voyage would not suffice to
gather up the chief of them; but the thought alone of beholding from a distance those decrepit
cities, those mysterious islands, those fatal sand-banks, excited my imagination....

Marken is as famous among the islands of the Zuyder Zee as Broek is among the villages of Holland;
but with all its fame, and altho distant but one hour by boat from the coast, few are the strangers,
and still fewer the natives who visit it. So said the captain as he pointed out the lighthouse
of the little island, and added that in his opinion the reason was, that when a stranger arrived
at Marken, even if he were a Dutchman, he was followed by a crowd of boys, watched, and commented
upon as if he were a man fallen from the moon. This unusual curiosity is explained by a description
of the island. It is a bit of land about three thousand meters in length and one thousand in
width, which was detached from the continent in the thirteenth century, and remains to this
day, in the manners, and customs of its inhabitants, exactly as it was six centuries ago.

The surface of the island is but little higher than the sea, and it is surrounded by a small
dike which does not suffice to protect it from inundation. The houses are built upon eight
small artificial elevations, and form as many boroughs, one of which--the one which has the
church--is the capital, and another the cemetery. When the sea rises above the dike, the spaces
between the little hills are changed into canals, and the inhabitants go about in boats. The
houses are built of wood, some painted, some only pitched; one only is of stone, that of the
pastor, who also has a small garden shaded by four large trees, the only ones on the island.
Next to this house are the church, the school, and the municipal offices. The population is
about one thousand in number, and lives by fishing. With the exceptions of the doctor, the
pastor, and the school-master, all are native to the island; no islander marries on the continent;
no one from the mainland comes to live on the island.

They all profess the reformed religion, and all know how to read and write. In the schools
more than two hundred boys and girls are taught history, geography, and arithmetic. The fashion
of dress, which has not been changed for centuries, is the same for all, and extremely curious.
The men look like soldiers. They wear a dark gray cloth jacket ornamented with two rows of
buttons which are in general medals, or ancient coins, handed down from father to son. This
jacket is tucked into the waistband of a pair of breeches of the same color, very wide about
the hips and tight around the leg, fastening below the knee; a felt hat or a fur cap, according
to the season; a red cravat, black stockings, white wooden shoes, or a sort of slipper, complete
the costume.

That of the women is still more peculiar. They wear on their heads an enormous white cap in
the form of a miter, all ornamented with lace and needlework, and tied under the chin like
a helmet. From under the cap, which completely covers the ears, fall two long braided tresses,
which hang over the bosom, and a sort of visor of hair comes down upon the forehead, cut square
just above the eyebrows. The dress is composed of a waist without sleeves, and a petticoat
of two colors. The waist is deep red, embroidered in colors and costing years of labor to make,
for which reason it descends from mother to daughter, from generation to generation. The upper
part of the petticoat is gray or blue striped with black, and the lower part dark brown. The
arms are covered almost to the elbow with sleeves of a white chemise, striped with red. The
children are drest in almost the same way, tho there is some slight difference between girls
and women, and on holidays the costume is more richly ornamented. The Dutch and Italian schools
are the two most original, or, as has been said, the only two to which the title rigorously
belongs; the others being only daughters, or younger sisters, more or less resembling them.
Thus, even in painting Holland offers that which is most sought after in travel and in books
of travel; the new.

Dutch painting was born with the liberty and independence of Holland. As long as the northern
and southern provinces of the Low Countries remained under the Spanish rule and in the Catholic
faith, Dutch painters painted like Belgian painters; they studied in Belgium, Germany, and
Italy; Heemskerk imitated Michael Angelo; Bloemart followed Correggio, and "Il Moro" copied
Titian, not to indicate others; and they were one and all pedantic imitators, who added to
the exaggerations of the Italian style a certain German coarseness, the result of which was
a bastard style of painting, still inferior to the first, childish, stiff in design, crude
in color, and completely wanting in chiaroscuro, but not, at least, a servile imitation, and
becoming, as it were, a faint prelude to the true Dutch art that was to be....

After depicting the house, they turned their attention to the country. The stern climate allowed
but a brief time for the admiration of nature, but for this very reason Dutch artists admired
her all the more; they saluted the spring with a livelier joy, and permitted that fugitive
smile of heaven to stamp itself more deeply on their fancy. The country was not beautiful,
but it was twice dear because it had been torn from the sea and from the foreign oppressor.
The Dutch artist painted it lovingly; he represented it simply, ingenuously, with a sense of
intimacy which at that time was not to be found in Italian or Belgian landscape.

The flat, monotonous country had, to the Dutch painter's eyes, a marvelous variety. He caught
all the mutations of the sky, and knew the value of the water, with its reflections, its grace
and freshness, and its power of illuminating everything. A few Dutch painters, not content
with nature in their own country, came to Italy in search of hills, luminous skies, and famous
ruins; and another band of select artists is the result. Both, Swanevelt, Pynaeker, Breenberg,
Van Laer, Asselyn.

Simultaneously with landscape art was born another kind of painting, especially peculiar to
Holland--animal painting. Animals are the wealth of the country; and that magnificent race
of cattle which has no rival in Europe for fecundity and beauty. The Hollanders, who owe so
much to them, treat them, one may say, as part of the population; they wash them, comb them,
dress them, and love them dearly. They are to be seen everywhere; they are reflected in all
the canals, and dot with points of black and white the immense fields that stretch on every
side; giving an air of peace and comfort to every place, and exciting in the spectator's heart
a sentiment of patriarchal serenity.

The Dutch artists studied these animals in all their varieties, in all their habits, and divined,
as one may say, their inner life and sentiments, animating the tranquil beauty of the landscape
with their forms. Rubens, Luyders, Paul de Vos, and other Belgian painters, had drawn animals
with admirable mastery, but all these are surpassed by the Dutch artists, Van der Velde, Berghum,
Karel der Jardin, and by the prince of animal painters, Paul Potter, whose famous "Bull," in
the gallery of The Hague, deserves to be placed in the Vatican beside the "Transfiguration"
by Rafael.

In yet another field are the Dutch painters great--the sea. The sea, their enemy, their power,
and their glory, forever threatening their country, and entering in a hundred ways into their
lives and fortunes; that turbulent North Sea, full of sinister colors, with a light of infinite
melancholy beating forever upon a desolate coast, must subjugate the imagination of the artist.
He, indeed, passes long hours on the shore, contemplating its tremendous beauty, ventures upon
its waves to study the effects of tempests, buys a vessel and sails with his wife and family,
observing and making notes, follows the fleet into battle, and takes part in the fight, and
in this way are made marine painters like William Van der Velde the elder, and William the
younger, like Backhuysen, Dubbels, and Stork.

Another kind of painting was to arise in Holland, as the expression of the character of the
people and of republican manners. A people that without greatness had done so many great things,
as Michelet says, must have its heroic painters, if we call them so, destined to illustrate
men and events. But this school of painting--precisely because the people were without greatness,
or, to express it better, without form of greatness, modest, inclined to consider all equal
before the country, because all had done their duty, abhorring adulation, and the glorification
in one only of the virtues and the triumph of many--this school has to illustrate not a few
men who have excelled, and a few extraordinary facts, but all classes of citizenship gathered
among the most ordinary and pacific of burgher life.

From this come the great pictures which represent five, ten, thirty persons together, arquebusiers,
mayors, officers, professors, magistrates, administrators, seated or standing around a table,
feasting and conversing, of life size, most faithful likenesses, grave, open faces, expressing
that secure serenity of conscience by which may be divined rather than seen the nobleness of
a life consecrated to one's country, the character of that strong, laborious epoch, the masculine
virtues of that excellent generation; all this set off by the fine costume of the time, so
admirably combining grace and dignity; those gorgets, those doublets, those black mantles,
those silken scarves and ribbons, those arms and banners. In this field stand preeminent Van
der Heist, Hals, Covaert, Flink, and Bol....

Finally, there are still two important excellences to be recorded of this school of painting--its
variety, and its importance as the expression, the mirror, so to speak, of the country. If
we except Rembrandt with his group of followers and imitators, almost all the other artists
differ very much from one another; no other school presents so great a number of original masters.
The realism of the Dutch painters is born of their common love of nature; but each one has
shown in his work a kind of love peculiarly his own; each one has rendered a different impression
which he has received from nature and all, starting from the same point, which was the worship
of material truth, have arrived at separate and distinct goals. The country at that time had
reached the height of prosperity; antique parsimony had given place to luxury; the houses of
the wealthy, very modest at the beginning of the century, were transformed into little palaces;
velvet, silk, and pearls replaced the patriarchal simplicity of the ancient costume; Holland
had become vain, ambitious, and prodigal.

After having filled their houses with pictures, hangings, porcelain, and precious objects from
all the countries of Europe and Asia, the rich merchants of the large Dutch cities began to
spend considerable sums in ornamenting their gardens with tulips--the flower which answers
best to that innate avidity for vivid colors which the Dutch people manifest in so many ways.
This taste for tulips promoted their rapid cultivation; everywhere gardens were laid out, studies
promoted, new varieties of the favorite flower sought for. In a short time the fever became
general; on every side there swarmed unknown tulips, of strange forms, and wonderful shades
or combinations of colors, full of contrasts, caprices, and surprises. Prices rose in a marvelous
way; a new variegation, a new form, obtained in those blest leaves was an event, a fortune.
Thousands of persons gave themselves up to the study with the fury of insanity; all over the
country nothing was talked of but petals; bulbs, colors, vases, seeds.

The mania grew to such a pass that all Europe was laughing at it. Bulbs of the favorite tulips
of the rarer varieties rose to fabulous prices; some constituted a fortune; like a house, an
orchard, or a mill; one bulb was equivalent to a dowry for the daughter of a rich family; for
one bulb were given, in I know not what city, two carts of grain, four carts of barley, four
oxen, twelve sheep, two casks of wine, four casks of beer, a thousand pounds of cheese, a complete
dress, and silver goblet. Another bulb of a tulip named "Semper Augustus" was bought at the
price of thirteen thousand florins. A bulb of the "Admiral Enkhuysen" tulip cost two thousand
dollars. One day there were only two bulbs of the "Semper Augustus" left in Holland, one at
Amsterdam and the other at Haarlem, and for one of them there were offered, and refused, four
thousand six hundred florins, a splendid coach, and a pair of gray horses with beautiful harness.
Another offered twelve acres of land, and he also was refused. On the registers of Alkmaar
it is recorded that in 1637 there were sold in that city, at public auction, one hundred and
twenty tulips for the benefit of the orphanage, and that the sale produced one hundred and
eighty thousand francs.

Then they began to traffic in tulips, as in State bonds and shares. They sold for enormous
sums bulbs which they did not possess, engaging to provide them for a certain day; and in this
way a traffic was carried on for a much larger number of tulips than the whole of Holland could
furnish. It is related that one Dutch town sold twenty millions of francs' worth of tulips,
and that an Amsterdam merchant gained in this trade more than sixty-eight thousand florins
in the space of four months. These sold that which they had not, and those that which they
never could have; the market passed from hand to hand, the differences were paid, and the flowers
for and by which so many people were ruined or enriched, flourished only in the imagination
of the traffickers. Finally matters arrived at such a pass that, many buyers having refused
to pay the sums agreed upon, and contests and disorders following, the government decreed that
these debts should be considered as ordinary obligations, and that payment should be exacted
in the usual legal manner; then prices fell suddenly, as low as fifty florins for the "Semper
Augustus," and the scandalous traffic ceased.

Now the culture of flowers is no longer a mania, but is carried on for love of them, and Haarlem
is the principal temple. She still provides a great part of Europe and South America with flowers.
The city is encircled by gardens, which, toward the end of April and the beginning of May,
are covered with myriads of tulips, hyacinths, carnations, auriculas, anemones, ranunculuses,
camelias, primroses, and other flowers, forming an immense wreath about Haarlem, from which
travelers from all parts of the world gather a bouquet in passing. Of late years the hyacinth
has risen into great honor; but the tulip is still king of the gardens, and Holland's supreme
affection.

I should have to change my pen for the brush of Van der Huysem or Menedoz, if I were to attempt
to describe the pomp of their gorgeous, luxuriant, dazzling colors, which, if the sensation
given to the eye may be likened to that of the ear, might be said to resemble a shout of joyous
laughter or a cry of love in the green silence of the garden; affecting one like the loud music
of a festival. There are to be seen the "Duke of Toll" tulip, the tulips called "simple precocious"
in more than six hundred varieties; the "double precocious"; the late tulips, divided into
unicolored, fine, superfine, and rectified; the fine, subdivided into violet, rose, and striped;
then the monsters or parrots, the hybrids, the thieves; classified into a thousand orders of
nobility and elegance; tinted with all the shades of color conceivable to the human mind: spotted,
speckled, striped, edged, variegated, with leaves fringed, waved, festooned; decorated with
gold and silver medals; distinguished by names of generals, painters, birds, rivers, poets,
cities, queens, and a thousand loving and bold adjectives, which recall their metamorphoses,
their adventures, and their triumphs, and leave in the mind a sweet confusion of beautiful
images and pleasant thoughts.

