  Freezing? No--warm and glowing, ambient, changeful, feathery, bright,
  Rather seem the floating vapors melting into roseate light.

  With the white flame in their bosoms, and the pure blue depths above,
  When the sunset rays dart kisses, how they kindle into love!

  See, with every shaft electric flash the bright hues deeper, higher,
  Till the chaste and snowy cloudlets fleck the Blue of Heaven with fire.

  How they flush and how they quiver! how the virgin drifts of snow
  Drink the sunset's dying passion, catch his ardent parting glow!

  Love weaves close in chords harmonic all the finely fretted dome,
  Blue, white, purple, gold, and crimson, fringe, melt, ripple into foam.

  Thus the angels drape God's footstool with soft vapor, wind, and sun:
  Does His smile rest on the artists when their pleasant work is done?

  Do they see Him bend the Heavens, riding swiftly on the clouds,
  Heat His Heart, and Light the shadow which His inner Glory shrouds?

  Seraphs, cherubs, thronging round Him, shall our hearts no raptures move?
  Shall we prove dull links reluctant in the chain of endless love?

  No. We feel the electric secret flashing through the Perfect Whole,
  'Bliss eternal' telegraphing upon every faithful soul.

       *       *       *       *       *

  CUMULI.

  Leave we now the upper regions
    With their wonders pure and high,
  Gone the barred and fleecy Cirri--
    Mountain Cumuli storm the sky.
  High the calmness floats above us,
    Tears and rain lie far below,
  As we sail the middle Cloudland,
    Where the vapors come and go.

  Throbs a wilder pulse of passion,
    Stronger individual life,
  Rapid, energetic motion
    Tells of elemental strife.
  Nearer seem they to the human,
    Rearing dizzy forms on high,
  Than the order-loving Cirri
    Barring the translucent sky.

  Lovingly they crest our mountains,
    Hovering o'er them all the day,
  Copying all the soaring outlines
    In artistic, skilful play;
  Following close on the horizon,
    Dip, break, gap, and lofty peak,
  As to build Earth into Heaven
    Would the haunting vapors seek.

  Drifting swiftly through the azure,
    Chase they shadows over Earth:
  Flying footsteps, soft and silent,
    Flit o'er grassy graves in mirth.
  Shudder not--the bearded harvest
    Quivers not, so light the tread:
  Let it glide o'er moss and violet--
    Would its touch could wake our dead!

  Piling now, the tossing vapors,
    With a wild exultant power,
  Rise in turrets, towers, mountains,
    Changing with the changing hour.
  Glittering, gleaming, dazzling, snowy,
    Heart-tossed shadows in them lie;
  Broken, scattered, wind-torn, foamy,
    Haunt they through Earth's panting sky.

  Luminous jets of boiling vapor
    Topple into sudden rifts,
  Open into yawning chasms,
    Break in tortured whirling drifts,
  Panting, surging, rocking, reeling,
    Cradling in their hearts the storm,
  Spirit, power, passion flashing,
    Lightning bares each secret form.

  Banding now in groups colossal,
    Piling o'er the mountain crest,
  Sweeping down his rocky summit,
    Crashing through his wooded breast,
  Shattering fall his pines and larches,
    Rain, hail, tumult onward swell,
  Lightning scathes the shuddering forest,
    Thunder frights the leafy dell.

  Sunset fires the whirling vapors,
    Now they sway and rock in light,
  Toppling crests fling back the radiance,
    Through the rifts it glitters bright,
  Gloomy clouds are ruby kindling,
    Rippling fringed with molten gold,
  Rosy streams of color pouring,
    Through the tempest's blackness rolled.

  Surging weird in fitful beauty,
    Every moment fraught with change,
  Every break and mystic chasm
    Opening up a Heaven-range:
  Now the eastern peaks are kindling
    Glow as though the Morning's heart
  Throbbed against them, while the formless
    Clouds to phantom being start.

  Thus through storm-tost human bosoms
    God oft sends His rays divine;
  Passionate errors, when forgiven,
    Lead us on to trust sublime.
  God rays light through moral tempests,
    Brings repentance out of crime;
  'Much forgiven' ploughs the spirit,
    Former faults as beacons shine.

  Through our ruins Love is gleaming,
    Rippling o'er in molten gold,
  Rosy streams of life are pouring
    Through our tempest's blackness rolled.
  Glittering thus in growing beauty,
    Every moment fraught with change,
  Through each rift and shattered chasm
    We may see the Heaven-range.

  Thus the angels build the pictures
    In the vext or tranquil skies,
  Of our changeful human passions,
    Stormful fall and heaven-won rise.
  Thus they write in love and pity,
    Radiant with their heaven-dyes,
  Lessons for the lost, the erring,
    Hope for weary, dying eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

  RAIN CLOUDS.

  High float the Cirri,
    Passionless, pure;
  Wild pile the Cumuli,
    Never secure;
  Low sweep the Rain Clouds
    Over the sky,
  Glooming the sunshine,
    Slow trailing by.

  Mystical region
    Typifies Earth--
  Light in the bosom
    Of darkness has birth;
  Magical mingling
    Of beauty and gloom,
  Calm follows tempest
    As Heaven the tomb.

  Shrouding the distance,
    Legions of mist
  Glide down the river
    Joining the list
  Of the shadowy army
    Hurrying on
  Over wide waters
    To welcome the sun.

  Catching his gleaming,
    Faster they run,
  Roseate surging,
    Roll into one;
  Filling the valley,
    Luminous haze,
  Heavenward soaring,
    Rocks as we gaze;

  Lifting strange columns
    Of light in the air,
  Weaves golden sunshine
    Fitful and fair
  Through the cloud pillars
    Thrown to the sky,
  Like the Dream-ladder
    Jacob slept by.

  Trailing o'er treetops,
    Shadowing graves,
  Gloomily weeping
    While the wind raves,
  Blurring the landscape
    Rain clouds press on,
  Lowering on nature
    With leaden-hued frown.

  Sulphurous, lurid,
    Thunder is near;
  Sobbings and mutterings
    Fill us with fear.
  Palls with wild fringes
    Stream on behind--
  Death may be riding
    The wings of the wind.

  Jagged clouds hanging
    Formless and black,
  Hurtle the whirlwind
    Fast o'er their track;
  Fiery flashes
    Scathe the green plain;
  Cataracts falling
    In torrents of rain.

  Thunder and lightning
    Crash through the sky;
  Whirlwinds are carding
    The clouds as they fly!
  Nature is reeling,
    Sin at our heart,
  Heaven is angered--
    Well may we start!

  God throws His shadow
    Into the gloom;
  The raindrops have caught it,
    And break into bloom!
  His light on Earth's teardrops
    Gems Bliss on her clouds,
  His rainbow of color
    Paints Hope on her shrouds.

  Tender and lovely,
    Luminous, fair,
  Infinite Beauty
    Is bending through air,
  Breathing through color,
    Through Order, through Form,
  That infinite Love
    Rules the heart of the storm.

  Caught in soft meshes,
    Fractions the light,
  Gold, green, or ruby,
    Tremblingly bright.
  Through the torn chasms
    Smiles the lost blue--
  The wilder the drifting,
    The deeper the hue.

  Beauty above us,
    Beauty around,
  Clouds, stars gem the heavens,
    Trees, flowers paint the ground.
  Rapturous meaning
    Illumines the whole:
  God gives us Beauty,
    For Love is His Soul!

  High-floating Cirri,
    Passionless, pure;
  Wild-piling Cumuli,
    Never secure;
  Low-trailing Rain Clouds
    With rainbow-lit pall--
  Softly ye whisper
    That Love ruleth all!

SKETCHES OF AMERICAN LIFE AND SCENERY.

II.--THE CATSKILL MOUNTAINS.

Who, in ascending the Hudson River, has not watched for the first glimpse of the Catskills,
and followed with delight their gradual development of peak and clove, until, near Hudson,
they stood fully revealed, flooded with sunshine, flecked with shadows, or crowned by storm-laden
clouds?

This region is noteworthy, not alone from its beauty and incalculable utility, but also from
the associations clustering around it through the pen of poets and writers of romance, the
brush of the artist, and the memories of thousands of tourists, who have found health and strength
for both body and mind upon its craggy heights or beside its numberless wild and beautiful
mountain torrents. It comprises the whole of Greene County, a portion of Delaware, and the
neighboring borders of Ulster, Schoharie, and Albany. It truly deserves the appellation of
'many fountained,' giving rise to great rivers, such as the Delaware, and one of the main branches
of the Susquehanna, and to manifold smaller watercourses, as the Schoharie, Catskill, and Esopus.
Unlike the Highlands of Northern New Jersey and Southern New York, and the region of the Adirondacs,
its lakes are few and very small. The best known are the twin lakes near the Mountain House,
and Shue's Lake, not far from the summit of Overlook Mountain. These are all at a height, approximately,
of two thousand feet above the river, and add greatly to the variety and interest of the landscape
in their vicinity.

Names among these hills are a commodity so scarce that their paucity presents a serious obstacle
to intelligible description. Round Tops and High Peaks are innumerable. We hope, when Professor
Guyot completes his cursory survey of heights, made eighteen months ago, he will strive to
do as in North Carolina, and supply the deficiency. Nomenclature is a difficult matter, and
requires a poet, a poetic man of science, or the imaginative intuitions of a primitive people.

The main range of the Catskills finds its southerly corner in Overlook Mountain, not far from
Woodstock, and about seven miles (more or less) west of the Hudson. One ridge extends northerly
(a little east, parallel with the river) from twelve to fourteen miles, and then, at the North
Mountain, making an obtuse angle, turns to the northwest, and passes through Windham into Schoharie
County: the other ridge, starting from Overlook, runs in a westerly direction along the southern
border of Greene County, and finally in Delaware sinks into broken hill ranges of less elevation.
The space intermediate between these two main ridges is at first narrow, but gradually widens
as they diverge from the starting point; its interior (northwesterly) slope is drained by the
Schoharie (a branch of the Mohawk) and its tributaries, the East, the West, and Batavia Kills.
Singular gaps or cloves intersect the range, affording easy communication with the lowlands
bordering its base. Each clove has its own stream, and in the main ones on the river front
are found the countless and beautiful waterfalls which constitute the chief characteristic
of Catskill scenery. The more primitive rocks of the Highlands, the Adirondacs, and the White
Mountains do not offer such numerous and picturesque sheets of falling water as the red sandstone
of the Catskills.

Starting from Overlook Mountain, whence the view is said to be magnificent, and proceeding
northward, we first reach the Plattekill Clove, up whose steep and wooded cleft winds a wild
road, chiefly used for quarrying purposes, and down whose abrupt declivity the Plattekill leaps
from crag to crag in a series of fine falls and cascades. The quantity of water during the
summer months, except after considerable rain, is small, but the rock formations are very interesting,
reminding the traveller of wild passes in the Tyrol. This is perhaps the grandest of all the
Catskill clefts, but human ingenuity has here afforded no aid to the sightseer, and strong
heads and agile limbs are needed for the enjoyment of its hidden beauties.

The mountain to the north of the Plattekill Clove has two crests, known as High Peak and Round
Top. It was long thought to be the loftiest summit of the Catskills, but must now yield to
the Windham High Peak or Black Head, 3,926 feet high, and perhaps to other elevations in the
same range. Professor Guyot gives its height at 3,684 feet, and that of the Mountain House
as 2,245 feet. This mountain has frequently been ascended, although there is no regular path
leading to the summit, but the thick growth of wood on the top greatly hinders the satisfactoriness
of the view. Between Round Top and the nearest mountain to the north lies the Kauterskill Clove,
known preëminently as The Clove, the home of artists and the theme of poets. Its springs are
drained by the Kauterskill Creek, a branch of the Catskill, and it is one of the loveliest
spots in America. The road through this clove is one of the main arteries to the back mountain
country, and, from the summit of the clove, near Haines's sawmill, winds for about three miles
to the base, by the side of streams offering fifteen fine falls and cascades in a distance
of five miles, and between steep and wooded mountain slopes or rocky crags lifted high in air,
now swelling out into the sunlight, and anon curving back into amphitheatres of shadow. The
main Kauterskill flows from the twin lakes already mentioned, and just below the Laurel House
falls over a precipice of 175 feet, which, with another dash of 80 feet, makes the entire depth
of the stream's first grand plunge into the wild ravine 255 feet. A short distance below is
the Bastion Fall, and, immediately following, the Terrace Cascade, the united height of the
two being certainly not less than 100 feet. These four fine falls are found in an easy walk
of three quarters of a mile leading down the ravine from the Laurel House to the Clove road.

The Little Kauterskill flows into the main stream at a short distance below the bridge where
the Clove road first crosses that torrent. The ravine through which it flows is incomparably
beautiful, with the grand plunge (Haines's Fall or Fawn's Leap) at the head, and the seven
graceful cascades, all visible from one projecting table rock, soon after following. Below
the above-mentioned bridge are the Dog Fall, the cascade at Moore's Bridge, and the Dog Hole,
with its steep cliffs and foaming rapids. At the mouth of the Clove is Palensville, a little
manufacturing village, where town-wearied denizens find fresh air and pleasant walks and drives
during the summer months. To our taste, however, the summer climate at the various sojourning
places, about two thousand feet above the sea level, is far preferable to that at the base
of the mountain.

Rising to the north of the Clove is the South Mountain, from whose beetling crags are obtained
some of the finest views offered by the Catskills; then follows the Pine Orchard, where are
the well-known Mountain House, the twin lakes, and the Laurel House at the head of the Kauterskill
Falls; and finally, the North Mountain, which looks down upon a graceful spur to the east,
Kiskatom Round Top, and then sweeps away to the northwest. Beyond the North Mountain is a considerable
depression, down which passes an execrable road, leading from East Jewett, within the mountain
range, to Cairo, at its foot. Finally, we reach Windham High Peak,[1] and the fine road crossing
the mountains from Catskill to Delhi, and passing through Windham and Prattsville.

On the southern side of the range, west of Overlook, are two wild and beautiful clefts, the
one known as the Stony Clove, and the other as West Kill or Bushnell Clove. The first begins
as a narrow gorge with lofty hemlock and moss-clad mountain sides, and gradually opens out,
at Phoenicia, upon the hills of Ulster and Esopus Creek. It is watered by a trout stream, and
its few but cosey farm cottages offer shelter sufficient for amateur fishermen and artists,
bewitched by its fairy recesses and fine forest growth. In the narrow portion of this clove
are ice caves, where ice may be found at all seasons of the year, and whence issue cooling
winds appreciable in the warmest summer days.

The West Kill, or Bushnell Clove, is said to be still finer and more alpine than the Stony
Clove. The last-mentioned gap and that of the Plattekill join the main or Kauterskill Clove
between Tannersville and Hunter, while the Bushnell Clove does not intersect the valley of
the Schoharie until the West Kill flows into that stream near the charming village of Lexington,
six miles south, a little west of Prattsville.

These geographical details may seem uninteresting, but if the writer had possessed them eight
years ago, when first making the near acquaintance of the Catskills, many a mystification might
have been avoided, and many a pleasant excursion, now only known to the fancy, have been found
practicable. One great attraction of the Catskills is, that the greater number of the spots
chiefly interesting are within walking or driving distance from the chief points of sojourn.
Visitors in general confine themselves to the Mountain House and its immediate vicinity, and
hence see but little of the beauties hidden among the cliffs and ravines of the inner peaks.
The view from the Mountain House plateau is extensive, but tame and monotonous in character;
the horizon is not interesting, and the cloud scenery is far more impressive than that of the
land beneath. The views from the very easily ascended North or South Mountains, where, in addition
to the river valley, the eye embraces the lakes, the opening of the Clove, and the distant
mountains toward Lexington, are far superior. Clum's Hill, a terraced eminence, visible from
many points among the Catskills, and the Parker Mountain, east of Tannersville, both offer
peculiar and interesting prospects; but the king of views is that obtained from the cliffs
of the South Mountain overhanging the Clove. This vista has furnished sketches for two remarkable
pictures painted by that rare artist and genuine son of Helios, S. R. Gifford. Looking toward
the west is the rolling plateau of the Clove, with the far-away mountains beyond Hunter, the
Parker and North Mountains, the openings to the Stony and Plattekill Cloves, Clum's Hill, and
the silver thread of Haines's Fall. At the foot of the cliffs, more than a thousand feet below,
lie Brockett's (classic ground for artists), the Clove road, Moore's Bridge, the Dog Fall,
and the brawling Kauterskill. Directly opposite stands the wooded crest of Round Top. The entire
mountain side is visible, and the cleft is so narrow that the trees can almost be counted as
they rise one above another to a height of 2,500 feet above the roaring stream, which here
receives two slender cascades that have threaded their way through the tangled forest. Toward
the east, the river is visible, and the sloping mountain declivities frame a lovely picture
of lowland country and far-away Connecticut or Massachusetts hills. The effects of light and
shadow are such as we have never seen surpassed. This earth there seems made of gold or crimson
lights, of gray seas of mist, or of every imaginable combination of beautiful hues.

These cliffs are reached by a charming walk through a beech wood, and are distant about a mile
from the Laurel House. A longer and still somewhat rough path was opened thither last summer
from the Mountain House. But we should never end were we to characterize all the beautiful
spots, the entrancing walks and drives to be found amid these cool and healthful slopes and
plateaus. A difference of at least ten degrees is felt between the mountain resorts and the
villages on the river bank, and the air is inexpressibly fresh and invigorating.

These mountains have also a very interesting flora. The oak, beech, birch, chestnut, hickory,
maple, ash, hemlock--pines, black, white, and yellow--spruces, fir, and balsam, are among the
most widely spread trees; and of fruits, the blackberry, gooseberry, raspberry, whortleberry
or blueberry, and strawberry, grow in profusion and of fine flavor. Violets, anemones, liverworts,
the fairy bells of the Linnea Borealis, the fragrant stars of the Mitchella or partridge berry,
the trailing arbutus, Houstonia, the laurel, honeysuckle, sarsaparilla, wintergreen, bottle
gentian, white and blue, purple orchids, willow herb, golden rod, immortelles, asters in every
variety, St. John's wort, wild turnip, Solomon's seals, wild lilies of the vale, fire lilies,
Indian pipe, with other flowers, ground pines, and varieties of moss and ferns innumerable,
border the winding woodpaths and secluded roads. There are many regions in America more grand
than that of the Catskills, but none, we think, more easily and gratefully compensatory to
a careful survey.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Within Gethsemane's Garden kneeling,
    Bends the Lord His sacred head,
  His soul, each human sorrow feeling,
    Quivers with keen shafts, sin-sped,
      Every human misery knows,
      Bears the burden of our woes.

  Perchance not men alone His sinking,
    Bleeding heart to weep is fain,
  But poor dumb creatures sees He drinking
    Deep the bitter cup of pain,
      Hears the wailing, anguished cry,
      Hears but curse and blow reply!

                                   L. D. P.

THE ISSUES OF THE WAR.

The life of the soldier is one of constant anxiety and suspense. He never knows with any certainty
to-day what he shall have to do to-morrow. Upon seemingly the greatest calm may suddenly burst
the most terrific storm. There is little incentive to thought, except of that practical kind
which directs the activities of the soldier's perilous life. Here we are, thousands of us,
an acting mass rather than an assemblage of thinking individuals. Indeed, it is not strictly
military to think; implicit and unquestioning obedience is the law. When the order was finally
given on Monday night (September 21st) for the whole army to fell back on Chattanooga, the
writer remarked:

'Well, if we shall not have to go any farther--if we can hold Chattanooga, we are not defeated;--it
is even a victory, and we have won Chattanooga at the battle of Chickamauga.'

'We want none of your speculations,' retorted our Prussian commander; 'it is a soldier's business
to obey, and not to think.'

But, it is hardly natural for an American soldier to execute a movement without inquiring the
wherefore. And if we are marched over mountains, and down the Lookout at Alpine Pass, within
a few miles of Rome; and then marched back again, up the perilous steep, and northward to Stevens's
Gap, and down again;--why, even common soldiers, without the evidence of brains which there
is, or ought to be, in shoulder straps, inquire of each other for the strategic value there
may be in all this marching and countermarching, and find it hard to believe that it was all
provided for in the original programme.

But in a still higher sense is the American soldier given to thinking. He is quite likely to
have an opinion as to the origin and cause of the war--as to the issues involved therein, and
the results which it is likely to bring about. There is, moreover, a multiplicity of views,
and not the unanimity of dulness.

The causes, the issues, the results of the war--momentous themes! and likely to be thoroughly
canvassed by those whom they so vitally concern--the American citizen and our citizen soldiery.

