Whence, now, is the money coming for this educational system? For the common schools the support
should come from local communities, the State governments, and the United States Government;
for secondary education, support should come from local and State governments and private philanthropy;
for the colleges, from private philanthropy and the United States Government. I make no apology
for bringing the United States Government in thus conspicuously. The General Government must
give aid to Southern education if illiteracy and ignorance are to cease threatening the very
foundations of civilization within any reasonable time. Aid to common school education could
be appropriated to the different States on the basis of illiteracy. The fund could be administered
by State officials, and the results and needs reported upon by United States educational inspectors
under the Bureau of Education. The States could easily distribute the funds so as to encourage
local taxation and enterprise and not result in pauperizing the communities. As to higher training,
it must be remembered that the cost of a single battle-ship like the Massachusetts would endow
all the distinctively college work necessary for Negroes during the next half-century; and
it is without doubt true that the unpaid balance from bounties withheld from Negroes in the
Civil War would, with interest, easily supply this sum.

But spread of intelligence alone will not solve the Negro problem. If this problem is largely
a question of ignorance, it is also scarcely less a problem of poverty. If Negroes are to assume
the responsibility of raising the standards of living among themselves, the power of intelligent
work and leadership toward proper industrial ideals must be placed in their hands. Economic
efficiency depends on intelligence, skill and thrift. The public school system is designed
to furnish the necessary intelligence for the ordinary worker, the secondary school for the
more gifted workers, and the college for the exceptional few. Technical knowledge and manual
dexterity in learning branches of the world's work are taught by industrial and trade schools,
and such schools are of prime importance in the training of colored children. Trade-teaching
can not be effectively combined with the work of the common schools because the primary curriculum
is already too crowded, and thorough common-school training should precede trade-teaching.
It is, however, quite possible to combine some of the work of the secondary schools with purely
technical training, the necessary limitations being matters of time and cost: e. g., the question
whether the boy can afford to stay in school long enough to add parts of a high-school course
to the trade course, and particularly the question whether the school can afford or ought to
afford to give trade training to high-school students who do not intend to become artisans.
A system of trade-schools, therefore, supported by State and private aid, should be added to
the secondary school system.

An industrial school, however, does not merely teach technique. It is also a school--a center
of moral influence and of mental discipline. As such it has peculiar problems in securing the
proper teaching force. It demands broadly trained men: the teacher of carpentry must be more
than a carpenter, and the teacher of the domestic arts more than a cook; for such teachers
must instruct, not simply in manual dexterity, but in mental quickness and moral habits. In
other words, they must be teachers as well as artisans. It thus happens that college-bred men
and men from other higher schools have always been in demand in technical schools. If the college
graduates were to-day withdrawn from the teaching force of the chief Negro industrial schools,
nearly every one of them would have to close its doors. These facts are forgotten by such advocates
of industrial training as oppose the higher schools. Strong as the argument for industrial
schools is--and its strength is undeniable--its cogency simply increases the urgency of the
plea for higher training-schools and colleges to furnish broadly educated teachers.

But intelligence and skill alone will not solve the Southern problem of poverty. With these
must go that combination of homely habits and virtues which we may loosely call thrift. Something
of thrift may be taught in school, more must be taught at home; but both these agencies are
helpless when organized economic society denies to workers the just rewards of thrift and efficiency.
And this has been true of black laborers in the South from the time of slavery down through
the scandal of the Freedmen's Bank to the peonage and crop-lien system of to-day. If the Southern
Negro is shiftless, it is primarily because over large areas a shiftless Negro can get on in
the world about as well as an industrious black man. This is not universally true in the South,
but it is true to so large an extent as to discourage striving in precisely that class of Negroes
who most need encouragement. What is the remedy? Intelligence--not simply the ability to read
and write or to sew--but the intelligence of a society permeated by that larger vision of life
and broader tolerance which are fostered by the college and university. Not that all men must
be college-bred, but that some men, black and white, must be, to leaven the ideals of the lump.
Can any serious student of the economic South doubt that this to-day is her crying need?

Ignorance and poverty are the vastest of the Negro problems. But to these later years have
added a third--the problem of Negro crime. That a great problem of social morality must have
become eventually the central problem of emancipation is as clear as day to any student of
history. In its grosser form as a problem of serious crime it is already upon us. Of course
it is false and silly to represent that white women in the South are in daily danger of black
assaulters. On the contrary, white womanhood in the South is absolutely safe in the hands of
ninety-five per cent. of the black men--ten times safer than black womanhood is in the hands
of white men. Nevertheless, there is a large and dangerous class of Negro criminals, paupers,
and outcasts. The existence and growth of such a class far from causing surprise, should be
recognized as the natural result of that social disease called the Negro problem; nearly every
untoward circumstance known to human experience has united to increase Negro crime: the slavery
of the past, the sudden emancipation, the narrowing of economic opportunity, the lawless environment
of wide regions, the stifling of natural ambition, the curtailment of political privilege,
the disregard of the sanctity of black men's homes, and, above all, a system of treatment for
criminals calculated to breed crime far faster than all other available agencies could repress
it. Such a combination of circumstances is as sure to increase the numbers of the vicious and
outcast as the rain is to wet the earth. The phenomenon calls for no delicately drawn theories
of race differences; it is a plain case of cause and effect.

But plain as the causes may be, the results are just as deplorable, and repeatedly to-day the
criticism is made that Negroes do not recognize sufficiently their responsibility in this matter.
Such critics forget how little power to-day Negroes have over their own lower classes. Before
the black murderer who strikes his victim to-day, the average black man stands far more helpless
than the average white, and, too, suffers ten times more from the effects of the deed. The
white man has political power, accumulated wealth, and knowledge of social forces; the black
man is practically disfranchised, poor, and unable to discriminate between the criminal and
the martyr. The Negro needs the defense of the ballot, the conserving power of property, and,
above all, the ability to cope intelligently with such vast questions of social regeneration
and moral reform as confront him. If social reform among Negroes be without organization or
trained leadership from within, if the administration of law is always for the avenging of
the white victim and seldom for the reformation of the black criminal, if ignorant black men
misunderstand the functions of government because they have had no decent instruction, and
intelligent black men are denied a voice in government because they are black--under such circumstances
to hold Negroes responsible for the suppression of crime among themselves is the cruelest of
mockeries.

On the other hand, a sincere desire among the American people to help the Negroes undertake
their own social regeneration means, first, that the Negro be given the ballot on the same
terms as other men, to protect him against injustice and to safeguard his interests in the
administration of law; secondly, that through education and social organization he be trained
to work, and save, and earn a decent living. But these are not all: wealth is not the only
thing worth accumulating; experience and knowledge can be accumulated and handed down, and
no people can be truly rich without them. Can the Negro do without these? Can this training
in work and thrift be truly effective without the guidance of trained intelligence and deep
knowledge--without that same efficiency which has enabled modern peoples to grapple so successfully
with the problems of the Submerged Tenth? There must surely be among Negro leaders the philanthropic
impulse, the uprightness of character and strength of purpose, but there must be more than
these; philanthropy and purpose among blacks as well as among whites must be guided and curbed
by knowledge and mental discipline--knowledge of the forces of civilization that make for survival,
ability to organize and guide those forces, and realization of the true meaning of those broader
ideals of human betterment which may in time bring heaven and earth a little nearer. This is
social power--it is gotten in many ways by experience, by social contact, by what we loosely
call the chances of life. But the systematic method of acquiring and imparting it is by the
training of youth to thought, power, and knowledge in the school and college. And that group
of people whose mental grasp is by heredity weakest, and whose knowledge of the past is for
historic reasons most imperfect, that group is the very one which needs above all, for the
talented of its youth, this severe and careful course of training; especially if they are expected
to take immediate part in modern competitive life, if they are to hasten the slower courses
of human development, and if the responsibility for this is to be in their own hands.

