As this is only a little comedy, and by no means tragical, we pass over the next scene, and
simply state, that Bertha, before all those neighbors, forgot everybody but her husband,--if
he may be called so, --and the church had said so; that Daniel felt great remorse at what he
had done; that he told Doome again that he wished the shark had finished him; that Doome didn't
or wouldn't hear, for her idol was broken,--and so was Doome's heart, nearly.

The authorities took away the prisoner, and left Bertha and Doome wretched and alone. As for
Daniel, he went out wandering by himself, --for he rather felt ashamed to look upon anybody.

At this time, a little boat with a white flag at its prow put off from the French fleet, and
bravely approached the bristling fort of Rügen. Nearer and nearer it comes,--nearer and nearer;
and in half an hour there is great cheering over the island of Rügen, for peace between Prussia
and France is declared.

'Tis true, the peace did not last very long; but it lasted long enough to save the French officer.
He was set at liberty at once, and an hour afterwards Daniel could look people in the face
again, --all except Doome, who would not cease to be incensed.

"But then," said Daniel, "you know I'd been waiting six years."

"How?" exclaimed Bertha.

"Yes, Bertha,--I'm the real Daniel. Look here!"--and half a little silver cross came forward.

"And you didn't say it when you came!--and you actually gave her to him!--and you saved his
life!--and oh! you, you CAPTAIN of a man!"

Thus Doome spoke and was comforted.

And Bertha went up to her old sweetheart and kissed him, saying, she thought she knew of a
better wife for him than she could ever have made,--for, now that Ernest (the French officer)
had suffered so much for her sake, she had no right to leave him. And, indeed, they were re-married
that day.

It was after Bertha had said she knew of a better wife for him, that Daniel looked at Doome,
who, picking up that pipe of his, handed it to him.

"Will you take care of it, Doome?"

"Save when you want it."

"Oh! I mean to come with it."

"'Tis the handsomest pipe in all Germany,--and--and I won't part with it till I part with you."

Hence, you see, there were two marriages that morning. Doome parted with the pipe a good deal,--for
Daniel loved the sea as heartily as he had loved Bertha and grew to love Doome, who assured
him many times that she was a far better wife for him than Bertha would have made. Whereupon
Daniel would kiss her,--so you can draw your own conclusion as to his motive. For my part,
I say first love is only heart-love,--and you see the heart is not so wise as the head.

By the time the long war was over,--with Waterloo for the last act, --Ernest had made not a
little money; so he and Bertha--now a grand lady--came to Rügen. Ernest learned German, perfectly,
from his own children and Doome's, and turned his sword into a ploughshare.

As for Daniel,--he gave up the sea and took a wine-shop.

Those four people are now still alive; and if Bertha and Daniel did not marry, their children
have,--though it was rather lowering to those grand young ladies and gentlemen, Bertha's children.

Those four, when they meet and clapper their friendly old tongues, can hardly believe that
once upon a time they were all at sixes and sevens,--and that Ernest himself was once in that
very place a Prisoner of War.

THE "WASHING OF THE FEET," ON HOLY THURSDAY, IN ST. PETER'S.

  Once more the temple-gates lie open wide:
    Onward, once more,
  Advance the Faithful, mounting like a tide
    That climbs the shore.

  What seek they? Blank the altars stand today,
    As tombstones bare:
  Christ of his raiment was despoiled; and they
    His livery wear.

  Today the puissant and the proud have heard
    The "mandate new":[1]
  That which He did, their Master and their Lord,
    They also do.

  Today the mitred foreheads, and the crowned,
    In meekness bend:
  New tasks today the sceptred hands have found;
    The poor they tend.

  Today those feet which tread in lowliest ways,
    Yet follow Christ,
  Are by the secular lords of power and praise
    Both washed and kissed.

  Hail, ordinance sage of hoar antiquity,
    Which She retains,
  That Church who teaches man how meek should be
    The head that reigns!

[Footnote 1: Mandatum Novum:--hence the name of "Maundy Thursday."]

       *       *       *       *       *

PHYSICAL COURAGE.

The Romans had a military machine, called a balista, a sort of vast crossbow, which discharged
huge stones. It is said, that, when the first one was exhibited, an athlete exclaimed, "Farewell
henceforth to all courage!" Montaigne relates, that the old knights, in his youth, were accustomed
to deplore the introduction of fencing-schools, from a similar apprehension. Pacific King James
predicted, but with rejoicing, the same result from iron armor. "It was an excellent thing,"
he said,--"one could get no harm in it, nor do any." And, similarly, there exists an opinion
now, that the combined powers of gunpowder and peace are banishing physical courage, and the
need of it, from the world.

Peace is good, but this result of it would be sad indeed. Life is sweet, but it would not be
sweet enough without the occasional relish of peril and the luxury of daring deeds. Amid the
changes of time, the monotony of events, and the injustice of mankind, there is always accessible
to the poorest this one draught of enjoyment,--danger. "In boyhood," said the Norwegian enthusiast,
Ole Bull, "I loved to be far out on the ocean in my little boat, for it was dangerous, and
in danger one draws near to God." Perhaps every man sometimes feels this longing, has his moment
of ardor, when he would fain leave politics and personalities, even endearments and successes,
behind, and would exchange the best year of his life for one hour at Balaklava with the "Six
Hundred." It is the bounding of the Berserker blood in us, --the murmuring echo of the old
death-song of Regnar Lodbrog, as he lay amid vipers in his dungeon:--"What is the fate of a
brave man, but to fall amid the foremost? He who is never wounded has a weary lot."

This makes the fascination of war, which is in itself, of course, brutal and disgusting. Dr.
Johnson says, truly, that the naval and military professions have the dignity of danger, since
mankind reverence those who have overcome fear, which is so general a weakness. The error usually
lies in exaggerating the difference, in this respect, between war and peace. Madame de Sévigné
writes to her cousin, Bussy-Rabutin, after a campaign, "I cannot understand how one can expose
himself a thousand times, as you have done, and not be killed a thousand times also." To which
the Count answers, that she overrates the danger; a soldier may often make several campaigns
without drawing a sword, and be in a battle without seeing an enemy, --as, for example, where
one is in the second line, or rear guard, and the first line decides the contest. He finally
quotes Turenne, and Maurice, Prince of Orange, to the same effect, that a military life is
less perilous than civilians suppose.

It is, therefore, a foolish delusion to suppose, that, as the world grows more pacific, the
demand for physical courage passes away. It is only that its applications become nobler. In
barbarous ages, men fight against men and animals, and need, like Achilles, to be fed on the
marrow of wild beasts. As time elapses, the savage animals are extirpated, the savage men are
civilized; but Nature, acting through science, commerce, society, is still creating new exigencies
of peril, and evoking new types of courage to meet them. Grace Darling at her oars, Kane in
his open boat, Stephenson testing his safety-lamp in the terrible pit,--what were the trophies
of Miltiades to these? The ancient Agamemnon faced no danger so memorable as that ocean-storm
which beset his modern namesake, bearing across the waters a more priceless treasure than Helen,
pride of Greece. And, indeed, setting aside these sublimities of purpose, and looking simply
at the quantity and quality of peril, it is doubtful whether any tale of the sea-kings thrills
the blood more worthily than the plain newspaper narrative of Captain Thomas Bailey, in the
Newburyport schooner, "Atlas," beating out of the Gut of Canso, in a gale of wind, with his
crew of two men and a boy, up to their waists in the water.

It is easy to test the matter. Let any one, who believes that the day of daring is past, beg
or buy a ride on the locomotive of the earliest express-train, some cold winter-morning. One
wave of the conductor's hand, and the live engine springs snorting beneath you, as no Arab
steed ever rushed over the desert. It is not like being bound to an arrow, for that motion
would be smoother; it is not like being hurled upon an ocean crest, for that would be slower.
You are rushing onward, and you are powerless; that is all. The frosty air gives such a brittle
and slippery look to the two iron lines which lie between you and destruction, that you appreciate
the Mohammedan fable of the Bridge Herat, thinner than a hair, sharper than a scimitar, which
stretches over hell and leads to paradise. Nothing has passed over that perilous track for
many hours; the cliffs may have fallen and buried it, the frail bridges may have sunk beneath
it, or diabolical malice put obstructions on it, no matter how trivial, equally fatal to you;
each curving embankment may hide unknown horrors, from which, though all others escape, you,
on the engine, cannot; and yet, still the surging locomotive bounds onward, beneath your mad
career. You draw a long breath, as you dismount at last, a hundred miles away, as if you had
been riding with Mazeppa or Brunechilde, and yet escaped alive. And there, by your side, stands
the quiet, grimy engineer, turning already to his tobacco and his newspaper, and unconscious,
while he reads of the charge at Balaklava, that his life is Balaklava every day.

Physical courage is not, therefore, a thing to be so easily set aside. Nor is it, as our reformers
appear sometimes to assume, a mere corollary from moral courage, and, ultimately, to be merged
in that. Moral courage is rare enough, no doubt,--probably the rarer quality of the two, as
it is the nobler; but they are things diverse, and not necessarily united. There have been
men, and still are such, leaders of their age in moral courage, and yet physically timid. This
is not as it should be. God placed man at the head of the visible universe, and if he is to
be thrown from his control, daunted by a bullet, or a wild horse, or a flash of lightning,
or a lee shore, then man is dishonored, and the order of the universe deranged. No matter what
the occasion of the terror is, a mouse or a martyrdom, fear dethrones us. "He that lives in
fear of death," said Cæsar, "at every moment feels its tortures. I will die but once."

Having claimed thus much, we can still readily admit that we cannot yet estimate the precise
effect upon physical courage of a state of permanent national peace, since indeed we are not
yet within sight of that desirable consummation. Meanwhile, let us attempt some slight sketch
and classification of the different types of physical courage, as already existing, among which
are to be enumerated the spontaneous courage of the blood,--the courage of habit,--magnetic
or transmitted courage,--and the courage inspired by self-devotion.

There is a certain innate fire of the blood, which does not dare perils for the sake of principle,
nor grow indifferent to them from familiarity, nor confront them under support of a stronger
will,--but loves them for their own sake, without reference to any ulterior object. There is
no special merit in it, for it is a matter of temperament. Yet it often conceals itself under
the finer names of self-devotion and high purpose,--as George Borrow convinced himself that
he was actuated by evangelical zeal to spread the Bible in Spain, though one sees, through
every line of his narrative, that it was chiefly the adventure which allured him, and that
he would as willingly have distributed the Koran in London, had it been equally contraband.
No surplices, no libraries, no counting-house desks can eradicate this natural instinct. Achilles,
disguised among the maidens, was detected by the wily Ulysses, because he chose arms, not jewels,
from the travelling merchant's stores. In the most placid life, a man may pant for danger;
and we know quiet, unobtrusive men who have confessed to us that they never step into a railroad-car
without the secret hope of a collision.

This is the courage of heroic races, as Highlanders, Circassians, Montenegrins, Afghans, and
those Arabs among whom Urquhart finely said that peace could not be purchased by victory. Where
destined to appear at all, it is likely to be developed in extreme youth, which explains such
instances as the gamins de Paris, and that of Sir Cloudesley Shovel, who in boyhood conveyed
a dispatch during a naval engagement, swimming through double lines of fire. Indeed, among
heroic races, young soldiers are preferable for daring; such, at least, is the testimony of
the highest authorities, as Ney and Wellington. "I have found," said the Duke, "that raw troops,
however inferior to the old ones in manoeuvring, may be superior to them in downright hard
fighting with the enemy. At Waterloo, the young ensigns and lieutenants, who had never before
seen an enemy, rushed to meet death, as if they were playing at cricket."

But though youth is good for an onset, it needs habit and discipline to give steadiness. A
boy will risk his life where a veteran will be too circumspect to follow him; but to perform
a difficult manoeuvre in face of an enemy requires Sicinius with forty-five scars on his breast.
"The very apprehension of a wound," said Seneca, "startles a man when he first bears arms;
but an old soldier bleeds boldly, for he knows that a man may lose blood and yet win the day."
Before the battle of Preston Pans, Mr. Ker of Graden, "an experienced officer," mounted on
a gray pony, coolly reconnoitred all the difficult ground between the two armies, crossed it
in several directions, deliberately alighted more than once to lead his horse through gaps
made for that purpose in the stone walls,--under a constant shower of musket-balls. He finally
returned unhurt to Charles Edward, and dissuaded him from crossing. Undoubtedly, any raw Highlander
in the army would have incurred the same risk, with or without a sufficient object; but not
one of them would have brought back so clear a report, --if, indeed, he had brought himself back.

The most common evidence of this dependence of many persons' courage on habit is in the comparative
timidity of brave men against novel dangers,--as of sailors on horseback, and mountaineers
at sea. Nay, the same effect is sometimes produced merely by different forms of danger within
the same sphere. Sea-captains often attach an exaggerated sense of peril to small boats; Condé
confessed himself a coward in a street-fight; and William the Conqueror is said to have trembled
exceedingly (rehementer tremens) during the disturbance which interrupted his coronation. It
was probably from the same cause, that Mrs. Inchbald, the most fearless of actresses, was once
entirely overcome by timidity on assuming a character in a masquerade.

