 Happy then he will be, if God intends he should be so; and holy he will be encouraged
to become, under the consciousness that God intends his holiness.

Dispositions like these will indeed work for their possessor even upon the hardest materials,
and will, by the very force of a new and spiritual nature, convert all into "servants to righteousness
unto holiness." Faith will be a hand, bringing together the events of life and the framer and
guide of all life and all existence; and the result will be a solemn and heart-satisfying conviction,
that "all things work together for good to them that love God."

Nor, next, will such a faith prove to be groundless; for surely there is a power engaged, there
is a pledge in the gospel, a sure word of promise, and even of covenant, that all things shall
be ours;--"All are yours, and ye are Christ's, and Christ is God's." The trial of our faith
lies indeed very much upon this one point. Can we, for a moment, believe that God permits all
the disorder and confusion which appears to us in the world--the prosperity of wickedness,
the trials and adversity of the righteous, in order to raise a doubt on our minds whether he
be not absent all the while--whether he bears or not any share in the world he created, or
in all those moving causes that owe their activity and life to himself alone? God is surely
present; he is powerfully operating; he is the supreme controller, and the almighty director;
he is fully aware of those adverse appearances, and is no less deeply engaged in the final
issue of all events, to render them consistent with the ends of justice and mercy, than as
if we saw him at work with our bodily eyes: or, as if we then could fully know the mind of
the Lord, or be his counsellors to instruct him.

The expressions of scripture are too strong, and too agreeable to the very nature of God and
of his works, to make us doubt for a moment of his providential care and unceasing watchfulness.
"He is not far from every one of us; for in him we live, and move, and have our being." To
the true disciple saith Christ himself, "The very hairs of your head are all numbered;" and
yet more strongly, "If a man love me, he will keep my words; and my Father will love him, and
we will come unto him, and make our abode with him."

Keeping in view the notion of what is truly good for this state of trial, and for the soul
as well as for the body, there is no time and no extent to which we shall not find the promise
sure, and the fulfilment exact, where God is pledged for the supply of his servants that trust
in him: his eye is ever open, his ear ever attentive unto them. The petition he denies is able
to operate as powerfully and as favourably on their behalf as that which he grants; merciful
alike in the gift which he bestows and which he withholds, and wise alike in the evil which
he permits, and which he restrains.

There is nothing more important to the believer's faith, than to apprehend that there is no
uncertainty, nothing imperfect or weak in the dispensations of God, as they respect the final
issue of the Christian's trials. Either God is wholly absent and forgetful of his daily wants,
or else he is wholly and for ever at work on his behalf. If he were wholly absent, well might
his servants doubt that, after all their endeavours to that end, they should be able to turn
to good all the events of this mortal life. If he do not temper the trials of his servants,
how in truth shall they overcome them? If he do not controul their enemies, how shall they
ever escape them? Figure to yourself any place, or time, or circumstance, where God is not,
or where he can be spared from the concerns of his people, either temporal or spiritual: but,
if none can be imagined or assigned, then is it but justly and essentially true, that, by his
especial order and his immediate appointment, "all things work together for good to them that
love God."

III. But we may proceed, lastly, to show, in a practical manner, some of those very things
which shall thus work together for good. Take the most unpromising and most unfavourable case,
for instance, that of great prosperity. None will deny it to be a case of many others the most
trying to the graces of the true Christian. Yet even shall the temptations arising from worldly
honours and successes, to a man armed with the love of God, work together for good. Graces
rarely exercised in exalted stations, shall be found to shine the more conspicuously in his
instance. The grace of humility, and tenderness of spirit, shall be the more eminently illustrated
in that station, where, too often, there is only pride and hardness of heart. If he be found,
in a sober, self-denying spirit, setting little value on those things so commonly called good
amongst mankind--using this world without abusing it--shall not the grace of God be more abundantly
magnified? When not overcome, as Agar feared he might be, saying, "lest I be full, and say,
who is the Lord?"--but rather, when led by fulness to more gratitude, and by a lofty station
to deeper humility, and to a more lowly submission to God, and meekness to man--how will he
by such prosperity as this testify to the reality of Christian principles: how will he, in
giving freely where he has freely received, esteeming even his highest gains as loss for Christ's
sake, and returning upon others all that mercy which has been exercised towards himself, prove
that he has not received the grace of God in vain; but that even prosperity has "worked together
for good to them that love God."

Or, suppose the case of deep adversity--suppose the Christian stripped, like Job, of great
honours and possessions at a single stroke; betrayed and sold like Joseph, even by brethren,
into bondage and exile; or lying like Lazarus at the gate of the rich man, diseased in body,
and suing for the crumbs from off his table; or suppose him, as St. Paul himself, in peril
of foes, and even doubtful of friends; in weariness and painfulness oft, in hunger and thirst,
in cold and nakedness. These last were exactly the circumstances under which the very text
was indited by the apostle himself: he saw, what you may see, that trials like these, when
tempered by the presence of the God he loved, were good, not, I would say, in proportion to
their weight, but according to the patience which they exercised, the faith they strengthened,
the experience of divine support they afforded, the hope they brightened, the crown they were
preparing; yea, the exceeding and eternal weight of glory which they must eventually be working
out. The trials of Joseph had even led that servant of God, by degrees of painful progress,
to the honour of a prince, and a chain of gold. The "evil things" of Lazarus--good they might
have been called--had led him to still higher honours, and had prepared him to be carried by
angels into Abraham's bosom. Every individual circumstance of this nature, as it passed in
review before the apostle in the text, had led irresistibly to the conclusion he so strongly
expresses. Could he distrust the same arm, disbelieve the same promises; or rather saying with
David--"Our fathers trusted in thee, and were delivered," would he not add--I will trust as
they did; I will be "in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?" Let me feel only the
"profit, that I may be partaker of his holiness;" and then, "though no affliction for the present
is joyous, but grievous," it shall surely hereafter yield the peaceable fruit of true righteousness;
and "all things," adversity itself, "shall work together for my good."

Temptation, verily, shall be among the "things working together for good to them that love
God." Such indeed is our state of trial upon earth, that every successive arrival at our doors
comes to us in some shape or other of temptation to sin. But take the strongest and most pressing
incitements to the corruptions of the heart, and the evil of our nature. Another apostle had
a like meaning when he said, "My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations."
Every enemy opposed to the Christian warrior affords him fresh opportunity for a sure victory
in the strength of Christ. Every obstacle in his path is that which faith regards as a trial
prepared for his soul; but hope and joy carry him over, to the glory of his sovereign Upholder.
In evil company, which he seeks not, his courage is honourably put to the test, and abides
it; amidst a world of licentiousness and excess, which he desires not to approach, he still
trusts, through grace, that he shall not be found wanting. In a season of provocation his meekness
is tried, and it prevails; and in the moment of fear, and the threats of alarm, "his heart
standeth fast, trusting in the Lord;" "nay, in all these things he is more than conqueror through
him that loved him."

If his very sins are in one sense his shame, and the source of his bitter tears and saddest
recollections, still those tears and recollections shall prove among the workers for his good,
if they lead him more closely to the throne of mercy, and to the fountain of eternal strength.

I conclude with a single word of remark on the expression in the text, "We know that all things
work together for good." It expresses the personal experience of the Christian. It answers
to a similar expression of the same apostle to the Philippians--"I know that this shall turn
to my salvation through your prayer, and the supply of the spirit of Jesus Christ." But to
whom is this knowledge vouchsafed? To whom is it a safe and a sure conviction--an "earnest
expectation and hope," so "that in nothing we shall be ashamed?" Truly, to those only who "love
God"--to those who are "the called according to his purpose." His purpose is our sanctification,
and that we should be "conformed to the image of his Son." To such truly, to such only does
that blessing apply, so frequently indeed, and but too rashly, appropriated by many others,
"All is for the best."

Let the careless rather tremble, those as yet not effectually called into the gospel vineyard,
at such an appropriation of the text.

Gain rather in prayer, in secret meditation and much retirement from the presence and the love
of this world, the true love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Then being first transformed
yourself, you will be enabled, by a divine power, to transform everything around you; you will
receive all things as from the hand of the Father whom you love, the Benefactor and Friend
whom you wish and aim to serve. Your willing and noble obedience to him will render, then,
prosperity a new advantage to you by awakening your gratitude, and adversity a blessing, by
exercising and perfecting your patience. You will have a fence around you, an armour of divine
temper to fortify you in the presence of every temptation, and to turn the very weapons of
your adversaries into your own instruments of victory, the trophies of your triumph.

THE GLORY OF THE SAVIOUR'S TRANSFIGURATION.[Y]

    "And was transfigured before them, and his face did
    shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the
    light."

