The death of the Duke of Cambridge, brother of the late William IV., occurred the 8th of July,
and was quite sudden. He was the seventh son of George III., was born in 1774, received his
earliest education at Kew, and finished his studies at Gottingen. He entered the army, and
experiencing much active service, was promoted, until in 1813 he attained the distinction of
Field Marshal. He soon afterward became Governor-General of Hanover, and continued to fill
that post until the accession of the Duke of Cumberland, in 1839. His subsequent life presented
few features of much interest. His name was to be found as a patron and a contributor to many
most valuable institutions, and he took delight in presiding at benevolent festivals and anniversary
dinners, when, though without the slightest pretension to eloquence, the frankness and bonhommie
of his manners, and his simple straight-forward earnestness of speech, used to make him an
universal favorite. He took but little part in the active strife of parties. He died in his
seventy-seventh year, leaving one son, Prince George of Cambridge, and two daughters.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE W. ERVING.

This distinguished public man died in New York, on the 22d ult. A correspondent of the Evening
Post gives the following account of his history:

"The journals furnish us with a brief notice of the death of the venerable George W. Erving,
who was for so many years, dating from the foundation of our government, connected with the
diplomatic history of the country, as an able, successful and distinguished negotiator. The
career of this gentleman has been so marked, and is so instructive, that it becomes not less
a labor of love than an act of public duty, with the press, to make it the occasion of comment.
At the breaking out of our revolution, the father of the subject of this imperfect sketch was
an eminent loyalist of Massachusetts, residing in Boston, connected by affinity with the Shirleys,
the Winslows, the Bowdons, and Winthrops of that State. Like many other men of wealth, at that
day, he joined the royal cause, forsook his country and went to England. There his son, George
William, who had always been a sickly delicate child, reared with difficulty, was educated,
and finally graduated at Oxford, where he was a classmate of Copley, now Lord Lyndhurst. Following
this, on the attainment of his majority, and during the lifetime of his father, notwithstanding
the most powerful and seductive efforts to attach him to the side of Great Britain, the more
persevering from the great wealth, and the intellectual attainments of the young American--notwithstanding
the importunities of misjudging friends and relatives, the incitements found in ties of consanguinity
with some, and his intimate personal associations with many of the young nobility at that aristocratic
seat of learning, and notwithstanding the blandishments of fashionable society--the love of
country and the holy inspirations of patriotism, triumphed over all the arts that power could
control, and those allurements usually so potent where youth is endowed with great wealth.
The young patriot promptly, cheerfully, sacrificed all, for his country--turned his back upon
the unnatural stepmother, and came back, to share the good or evil fortunes of his native land.

"Such facts as these should not be lost sight of at the present day--such an example it is
well to refer to now, in the day of our prosperity. And we would ask--in no ill-natured or
censorious spirit, but rather that the lessons of history should not be forgotten--how many
young men of these days under like circumstances, would make a similar sacrifice upon the altar
of their country? The solemn and impressive event which has produced this notice seems to render
this question not entirely inappropriate; for years should not dim in the minds of the rising
generation the memory of those pure and strong men, who, in the early trials of their country,
rose equal to the occasion. When, at a later period, political parties began to develop themselves,
Mr. Erving, then a resident of Boston, identified himself with the great republican party,
and became actively instrumental in securing the election of Thomas Jefferson to the Presidency.
From that time forward until the day of his death, he never faltered in his political faith.

"Few men have been, for so long a period, so intimately connected with the diplomatic history
of our country. He received his first public appointment, as Consul and Commissioner of Claims
at London, nearly half a century since. This appointment was conferred upon him without his
solicitation, and was at first declined. Subsequent reflection, however, induced him to waive
all private and personal considerations, and he accepted the post assigned to him. The manner
in which he discharged the duties of that trust, impressed the government with the expediency
of securing his services in more important negotiations, and he was sent as Commissioner and
Charge d'Affaires to Denmark. His mission to the court of that country was, at that period,
a highly important one. The negotiations he had to conduct there, required great tact and ability.

"While at Copenhagen, he secured, in an eminent degree, the esteem and confidence of the Danish
authorities, and brought to a successful solution the questions then arising out of the interests
committed to him. In consequence, the government was enabled to avail itself of his experience
at the Court of Berlin, where events seemed to require the exercise of great diplomatic ability.
He was afterward appointed to Madrid, where, by his highly honorable personal character, and
captivating manners, he obtained great influence, even at that most proud and distrustful court,
and conducted, with consummate skill and marked success, the important and delicate negotiations
then pending between the United States and Spain. He remained at Madrid for many years, where
he attained the reputation of being one of the most able and accomplished diplomatists that
the United States had ever sent abroad. Upon his final retirement from this post, and, in fact,
from all public employment, the administration of General Jackson sought to secure his services
in the mission to Constantinople, but the proffered appointment was declined.

"There are many interesting incidents in his public and diplomatic career, which a more extended
notice would enable us to detail. Indeed, we hope that so instructive a life as that of Mr.
Erving may hereafter find a fit historian. That historian may not have to chronicle victories
won upon the battle field, but the civic achievement he will have to record, if not so dazzling
as the former, will, at least, be as replete with evidences of public usefulness.

"The latter years of his life were passed in Europe, chiefly in Paris. The public agitations
consequent upon the last French revolution, need of quiet at his advanced age, and the presentiment
of approaching dissolution, induced him to return home. Indeed it was meet that he should close
his mortal career in that country which he had so long and faithfully served, and whose welfare
and happiness had been the constant object of his every earthly aspiration."

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. JOHN BURNS. Dr. Burns held a distinguished place in the medical world, for at least half
a century, as an author and a teacher. He was a son of the Rev. Dr. John Burns, for more than
sixty years minister of the Barony parish of Glasgow, who died about fourteen years ago, at
the age of ninety. He was originally intended to be a manufacturer, and in his time the necessary
training for this business included a practical application to the loom. A disease of the knee-joint
unfitted him for becoming a weaver, and he turned his attention to the medical profession,
winch the neighboring university afforded him easy and ample means of studying. He early entered
into business as a general practitioner, but his ambition led him very soon to be an instructor.
In 1800, he published Dissertations on Inflammation, which raised his name to a high position
in the literature of his profession. In 1807, he published a kindred volume on Hemorrhage.
In the mean time he had turned his attention to lecturing, and he continued to give, for many
years, lectures on midwifery. His observations and experience on this subject he offered to
the world in The Principles of Midwifery, a work which has run through twelve editions, and
been translated into several of the continental languages. It is very elaborate and valuable,
and as each succeeding edition presented the result of the author's increasing experience,
it became a standard in every medical library. Its chief defect is a want of clearness in the
arrangement, and sometimes in the language. In 1815, the crown instituted a Professorship of
Surgery in the Glasgow University, and the Duke of Montrose, its chancellor, appointed to it
Mr. Burns, a choice which the voice of the profession generally approved. The value of the
professorship might average 500l. yearly.

As a professor, Dr. Burns was highly popular. He had a cheerful and attractive manner, and
was fond of bringing in anecdotes more or less applicable, but always enlivening. His language
was plain and clear, but not always correct or elegant. In personal appearance, he was of the
middle size, of an anxious and careworn, but gentlemanly and intelligent, expression of countenance.
In 1830, he published Principles of Surgery, first volume, which was followed by another. This
work is confused, both in style and arrangement, and has been very little read, but it did
credit to his zeal and industry, for he had now acquired fame and fortune, and had long had
at his command the most extensive practice in the west of Scotland. John Burns, the younger,
had written and published a work on the evidences and principles of Christianity, which was
extensively read, and went through many editions. His name was not at first on the title-page,
but that it was the production of a medical man was obvious. He gave a copy to his father,
who shortly after said, "Ah, John, I wish you could have written such a book!" Dr. Burns has
many friends in the United States, who were once his pupils. One of the most eminent of them
is Professor Pattison of the Medical Department of the New York University, in this city.

       *       *       *       *       *

HORACE SUMNER.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FINE ARTS.

POWERS'S STATUE OF CALHOUN.--An unfortunate fatality appears to wait upon the works of Hiram
Powers. It is but a few weeks since his "Eve" was lost on the coast of Spain, and it is still
uncertain here whether that exquisite statue is preserved without such injury as materially
to affect its value. And his masterpiece in history--perhaps his masterpiece in all departments--the
statue of Calhoun, which has been so anxiously looked-for ever since the death of the great
senator, was buried under the waves in which Madame d'Ossoli and Horace Sumner were lost, on
the morning of the 19th, near Fire Island. At the time this sheet is sent to press we are uncertain
as to the recovery of the statue, but we hope for the sake of art and for the satisfaction
of all the parties interested, that it will still reach its destination. It is insured in Charleston,
and Mr. Kellogg, the friend and agent of Mr. Powers, has been at the scene of the misfortune,
with all necessary means for its preservation, if that be possible.

       *       *       *       *       *

HORACE VERNET, the great painter, has returned to Paris from St. Petersburgh. Offensive reports
were current respecting his journey: he had been paid, it was alleged, in most princely style
by the Emperor, for his masterly efforts in translating to canvas the principal incidents of
the Hungarian and Polish wars. He came back, it was declared, loaded and content, with a hundred
thousand dollars and a kiss--an actual kiss--from his Imperial Majesty. M. Vernet has deemed
it necessary to publish a letter, correcting what was erroneous in these reports. He says:--"In
repairing to Russia I was actuated by only one desire, and had but a single object, and that
was, to thank His Majesty, the Emperor, for the honors with which he had already loaded me,
and for the proofs of his munificence which I had previously received. I intended to bring
back, and in fact have brought back from the journey, nothing but the satisfaction of having
performed an entirely disinterested duty of respectful gratitude." It is true, however, that
he lent his powers to illustrate the triumph of despotism, and if he brought back no gold the
matter is not all helped by that fact.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORS AND BOOKS.

THE REV. JAMES H. PERKINS, of Cincinnati, whose suicide during a fit of madness, several months
ago, will be generally recollected for the many expressions of profound regret which it occasioned,
we are pleased to learn, is to be the subject of a biography by the Rev. W.H. Channing. Mr.
Perkins was a man of the finest capacities, and of large and genial scholarship. He wrote much,
in several departments, and almost always well. His historical works, relating chiefly to the
western States, have been little read in this part of the Union; but his contributions to the
North American Review and the Christian Examiner, and his tales, sketches, essays, and poems,
printed under various signatures, have entitled him to a desirable reputation as a man of letters.
These are all to be collected and edited by Mr. Channing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. ESLING, better known as Miss Catherine H. Waterman, under which name she wrote the popular
and beautiful lyric, "Brother, Come Home!" has in press a collection of her writings, under
the title of The Broken Bracelet and other Poems, to be published by Lindsay & Blackiston of
Philadelphia.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. ROSSEEUW ST. HILAIRE, of Paris, is proceeding with his great work on the History of Spain
with all the rapidity consistent with the nature of the subject and the elaborate studies it
requires. The work was commenced ten years ago, and has since been the main occupation of its
author. The fifth volume has just been published, and receives the applause of the most competent
critics. It includes the time from 1336 to 1492, which comes down to the very eve of the great
discovery of Columbus, and includes that most brilliant period, in respect of which the history
of Prescott has hitherto stood alone, namely, the reign of Ferdinand and Isabella. M. St. Hilaire
has had access to many sources of information not accessible to any former writer, and is said
to have availed himself of them with all the success that could be anticipated from his rare
faculty of historical analysis and the beautiful transparency of his style.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REV. ROBERT ARMITAGE, a rector in Shropshire, is the author of "Dr. Hookwell," and "Dr.
Johnson, his Religious Life and his Death." In this last work, the Quarterly Review observes,
"Johnson's name is made the peg on which to hang up--or rather the line on which to hang out--much
hackneyed sentimentality, and some borrowed learning, with an awful and overpowering quantity
of twaddle and rigmarole." The writer concludes his reviewal: "We are sorry to have had to
make such an exposure of a man, who, apart from the morbid excess of vanity which has evidently
led him into this scrape, may be, for aught we know, worthy and amiable. His exposure, however,
is on his own head: he has ostentatiously and pertinaciously forced his ignorance, conceit,
and effrontery on public notice." We quite agree with the Quarterly.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN MILLS--"John St. Hugh Mills," it was written then--was familiarly known in the printing
offices of Ann street in this city a dozen years ago; he assisted General Morris in editing
the Mirror, and wrote paragraphs of foreign gossip for other journals. A good-natured aunt
died in England, leaving him a few thousand a year, and he returned to spend his income upon
a stud and pack and printing office, sending from the latter two or three volumes of pleasant-enough
mediocrity every season. His last work, with the imprint of Colburn, is called "Our Country."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. PRESCOTT, the historian, who is now in England, has received the degree of Doctor of Civil
Law from the University of Oxford. Two or three years ago he was elected into the Institute
of France.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. MAGINN's "Homeric Ballads," which gave so much attraction during several years to Fraser's
Magazine, have been collected and republished in a small octavo.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. KENDALL, of the Picayune, has sailed once more for Paris, to superintend there the completion
of his great work on the late war in Mexico upon which he has been engaged for the last two
years. The highest talent has been employed in the embellishment of this book, and the care
and expense incurred may be estimated from the fact that sixty men, coloring and preparing
the plates, can finish only one hundred and twenty copies in a month. The original sketches
were taken by a German, Carl Nebel, who accompanied Mr. Kendall in Mexico, and drew his battle
scenes at the very time of their occurrence. He has engaged in the prosecution of the whole
enterprise with as much zeal and interest as Mr. Kendall himself, and has spared no pains to
procure the assistance of the most skillful operatives. The book is folio in size, and will
be published early in the fall. The letter press has long been finished, and only waiting for
the completion of the plates. These are twelve, and their subjects are Palo Alto, the Capture
of Monterey, Buena Vista: the Landing at Vera Cruz, Cerro Gordo, Contreras, Cherubusco, Molino
del Rey, two views of the Storming of Chapultepec, and Gen. Scott's entrance into the city
of Mexico. The lithographs are said to be unsurpassed in felicity of design, perfection of
coloring, and in the animation and expression of all the figures and groups. No such finished
specimens of colored lithography were ever exhibited in this country. The plates will have
unusual value, not only on account of their intrinsic superiority, but because of their rare
historical merit, since they are exact delineations of the topography of the scenes they represent
and faithful representations in every particular of the military positions and movements at
the moment chosen for illustration.

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. TROLLOPPE is as busy as she has ever been since the failure of her shop at Cincinnati--trading
in fiction, with the capital won by her first adventure in this way, "The Domestic Manners
of the Americans." Her last novel, which is just out, has in its title the odor of her customary
vulgarity; it is called "Petticoat Government." Her son, Mr. A. Trolloppe, his just given the
world a new book also, "La Vendee" a historical romance which is well spoken of.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REV. DR. WILLIAM R. WILLIAMS, it will gratify the friends of literature and religion to
learn, has consented to give to the press several works upon which he has for some time been
engaged. They will be published by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, of Boston. In the next number
of The International we shall write more largely of this subject.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. BUCKLAND, the Dean of Westminster--the eloquent and the learned writer of the remarkable
"Bridgewater Treatise" is bereft of reason, and is now an inmate of an asylum near Oxford.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. WAYLAND's "Tractate on Education," in which he proposes a thorough reform in the modes
of college instruction, has, we are glad to see, had its desired effect. The Providence Journal
states that the entire subscription to the fund of Brown University has reached $110,000, which
is within $15,000 of the sum originally proposed. The subscription having advanced so far,
and with good assurances of further aid, the committee have reported to the President, that
the success of the plan, so far as the money is concerned, may be regarded as assured, and
that consequently it will be safe to go on with the new organization as rapidly as may he deemed
advisable. Of the sum raised, about $96,000 have come from Providence. A meeting of the Corporation
of the University will soon be called, when the entire plan will be decided upon, and carried
into effect as rapidly as so important a change can be made with prudence.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARLES EAMES, formerly one of the editors of the Washington Union, and more recently United
States Commissioner to the Sandwich Islands, is to be the orator of the societies of Columbia
College, at the commencement, on the evening of the 6th of October. Bayard Taylor will be the
poet for the same occasion.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHATEAUBRIAND'S MEMOIRS.--The eleventh and last volume has just been published at Paris in
the book form, and will soon be completed in the feuilletons. An additional volume is however
to be brought out, under the title of "Supplement to the Memoirs."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE THIRD AND FOURTH SERIES of Southey's Common-Place Book are in preparation, and they will
be reprinted by the Harpers. The third contains Analytical Readings, and the fourth, Original
Memoranda.

       *       *       *       *       *

WASHINGTON IRVING's Life of General Washington, in one octavo volume, is announced by Murray.
It will appear simultaneously from the press of Putnam.

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. JAMESON has in press Legends of the Monastic Orders, as illustrated in art.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. ACHILLI is the subject of an article in the July number of the Dublin Review--the leading
Roman Catholic journal in the English language. Of course the history of the missionary is
not presented in very flattering colors.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM HOUSEHOLD WORDS.]

THE SERF OF POBEREZE.

The materials for the following tale were furnished to the writer while traveling last year
near the spot on which the events it narrates took place. It is intended to convey a notion
of some of the phases of Polish, or rather Russian serfdom (for, as truly explained by one
of the characters in a succeeding page, it is Russian), and of the catastrophes it has occasioned,
not only in Catherine's time, but occasionally at the present. The Polish nobles--themselves
in slavery--earnestly desire the emancipation of their serfs, which Russian domination forbids.

The small town of Pobereze stands at the foot of a stony mountain, watered by numerous springs
in the district of Podolia, in Poland. It consists of a mass of miserable Cabins, with a Catholic
chapel and two Greek churches in the midst, the latter distinguished by their gilded towers.
On one side of the market-place stands the only inn, and on the opposite side are several shops,
from whose doors and windows look out several dirtily dressed Jews. At a little distance, on
a hill covered with vines and fruit-trees, stands the Palace, which does not, perhaps, exactly
merit such an appellation, but who would dare to call otherwise the dwelling of the lord of
the domain?

On the morning when our tale opens, there had issued from this palace the common enough command
to the superintendent of the estate, to furnish the master with a couple of strong boys, for
service in the stables, and a young girl to be employed in the wardrobe. Accordingly, a number
of the best-looking young peasants of Olgogrod assembled in the avenue leading to the palace.
Some were accompanied by their sorrowful and weeping parents, in all of whose hearts, however,
rose the faint whispered hope, "Perhaps it will not be my child they will choose!"

Being brought into the court-yard of the palace, the Count Roszynski, with the several members
of his family, had come out to pass in review his growing subjects. He was a small and insignificant-looking
man, about fifty years of age, with deep-set eyes and overhanging brows. His wife, who was
nearly of the same age, was immensely stout, with a vulgar face and a loud, disagreeable voice.
She made herself ridiculous in endeavoring to imitate the manners and bearing of the aristocracy,
into whose sphere she and her husband were determined to force themselves, in spite of the
humbleness of their origin. The father of the "Right-Honorable" Count Roszynski was a valet,
who, having been a great favorite with his master, amassed sufficient money to enable his son,
who inherited it, to purchase the extensive estate of Olgogrod, and with it the sole proprietorship
of 1600 human beings. Over them he had complete control; and, when maddened by oppression,
if they dared resent, woe unto them! They could be thrust into a noisome dungeon, and chained
by one hand from the light of day for years, until their very existence was forgotten by all
except the jailor who brought daily their pitcher of water and morsel of dry bread.

Some of the old peasants say that Sava, father of the young peasant girl, who stands by the
side of an old woman, at the head of her companions in the court-yard, is immured in one of
these subterranean jails. Sava was always about the Count, who, it was said, had brought him
from some distant land, with his little motherless child. Sava placed her under the care of
an old man and woman, who had the charge of the bees in a forest near the palace, where he
came occasionally to visit her. But once, six long months passed, and he did not come! In vain
Anielka wept, in vain she cried, "Where is my father?" No father appeared. At last it was said
that Sava had been sent to a long distance with a large sum of money, and had been killed by
robbers. In the ninth year of one's life the most poignant grief is quickly effaced, and after
six months Anielka ceased to grieve. The old people were very kind to her, and loved her as
if sue were their own child. That Anielka might be chosen to serve in the palace never entered
their head, for who would be so barbarous as to take the child away from an old woman of seventy
and her aged husband?

To-day was the first time in her life that she had been so far from home. She looked curiously
on all she saw,--particularly on a young lady about her own age, beautifully dressed, and a
youth of eighteen, who had apparently just returned from a ride on horse-back, as he held a
whip in his hand, whilst walking up and down examining the boys who were placed in a row before
him. He chose two amongst them, and the boys were led away to the stables.

"And I choose this young girl," said Constantia Roszynski, indicating Anielka; "she is the
prettiest of them all. I do not like ugly faces about me."

When Constantia returned to the drawing-room, she gave orders for Anielka to be taken to her
apartments, and placed under the tutelage of Mademoiselle Dufour, a French maid, recently arrived
from the first milliner's shop in Odessa. Poor girl! when they separated her from her adopted
mother, and began leading her toward the palace, she rushed, with a shriek of agony, from them,
and grasped her old protectress tightly in her arms! They were torn violently asunder, and
the Count Roszynski quietly asked, "Is it her daughter, or her grand-daughter?"

"Neither, my lord,--only an adopted, child."

"But who will lead the old woman home, as she is blind?"

"I will, my lord," replied one of his servants, bowing to the ground; "I will let her, walk
by the side of my horse, and when she is in her cabin she will have her old husband,--they
must take care of each other."

So saying, he moved away with the rest of the peasants and domestics. But the poor old woman
had to be dragged along by two men; for in the midst of her shrieks and tears she had fallen
to the ground, almost without life.

And Anielka? They did not allow her to weep long. She had now to sit all day in the corner
of a room to sew. She was expected to do everything well from the first; and if she did not,
she was kept without food or cruelly punished. Morning and evening she had to help Mdlle. Dufour
to dress and undress her mistress. But Constantia, although she looked with hauteur on everybody
beneath her, and expected to be slavishly obeyed, was tolerably kind to the poor orphan. Her
true torment began, when, on laving her young lady's room, she had to assist Mdlle. Dufour.
Notwithstanding that she tried sincerely to do her best, she was never able to satisfy her,
or to draw from her naught but harsh reproaches.

Thus two months passed.

One day Mdlle. Dufour went very early to confession, and Anielka was seized with an eager longing
to gaze once more in peace and freedom on the beautiful blue sky and green trees, as she used
to do when the first rays of the rising sun streamed in at the window of the little forest
cabin. She ran into the garden. Enchanted by the sight of so many beautiful flowers, she went
farther and farther along the smooth and winding walks. till she entered the forest. She who
had been, so long away from her beloved trees, roamed where they were thickest. Here she gazes
boldly around. She sees no one! She is alone! A little farther on she meets with a rivulet
which flows through the forest. Here she remembers that she has not yet prayed. She kneels
down, and with hands clasped and eyes upturned she begins to sing in a sweet voice the Hymn
to the virgin.

As she went on she sang louder and with increased fervor. Her breast heaved with emotion, her
eyes shone with unusual brilliancy; but when the hymn was finished she lowered her head, tears
began to fall over her cheeks, until at last she sobbed aloud. She might have remained long
in this condition, had not some one come behind her, saying, "Do not cry, my poor girl; it
is better to sing than to weep." The intruder raised her head, wiped her eyes with his handkerchief,
and kissed her on the forehead.

It was the Count's son, Leon!

"You must not cry," he continued; "be calm, and when the filipony (peddlers) come, buy yourself
a pretty handkerchief." He then gave her a ruble and walked away. Anielka, after concealing
the coin in her corset, ran quickly back to the palace.

