INTRODUCTION

TO THE

STUDY OF HISTORY

BY

CH. V. LANGLOIS & CH. SEIGNOBOS

OF THE SORBONNE

AUTHORIZED TRANSLATION BY G. G. BERRY

WITH A PREFACE BY F. YORK POWELL

NEW YORK

HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY

1904

TO THE READER

It is a pleasure to recommend this useful and well-written little book to English readers.
It will both interest and help. There are, for instance, a few pages devoted to the question
of evidence that will be an aid to every one desirous of getting at the truth respecting any
series of facts, as well as to the student of history. No one can read it without finding out
that to the historian history is not merely a pretty but rather difficult branch of literature,
and that a history book is not necessarily good if it appears to the literary critic 'readable
and interesting,' nor bad because it seems to him 'hard or heavy reading.' The literary critic,
in fact, is beginning to find out that he reads a history as he might read a treatise on mathematics
or linguistics, at his peril, and that he is no judge of its value or lack of value. Only the
expert can judge that. It will probably surprise some people to find that in the opinion of
our authors (who agree with Mr. Morse Stephens and with the majority of scholars here) the
formation and expression of ethical judgments, the approval or condemnation of Caius Julius
Cæsar, or of Cæsar Borgia, is not a thing within the historian's province. His business is
to find out what can be known about the characters and situations with which he is engaged,
to put what he can ascertain before his readers in a clear form, and lastly to consider and
attempt to ascertain what scientific use can be made of these facts he has ascertained. Ethic
on its didactic side is outside his business altogether. In fact MM. Langlois and Seignobos
write for those "who propose to deal with documents [especially written documents] with a view
to preparing or accomplishing historic work in a scientific way." They have the temerity to
view history as a scientific pursuit, and they are endeavouring to explain to the student who
intends to pursue this branch of anthropologic science the best and safest methods of observation
open to him, hence they modestly term their little book "an essay on the method of historic
sciences." They are bold enough to look forward to a day, as not far distant, when a sensible
or honest man will no more dare to write history unscientifically than he would to-day be willing
to waste his time and that of others on observing the heavens unscientifically, and registering
as trustworthy his unchecked and untimed observations.

Whether we like it or not, history has got to be scientifically studied, and it is not a question
of style but of accuracy, of fulness of observation, and correctness of reasoning, that is
before the student. Huxley and Darwin and Clifford have shown that a book may be good science
and yet good reading. Truth has not always been found repulsive although she was not bedizened
with rhetorical adornments; indeed, the very pursuit of her has long been recognised as arduous
but extremely fascinating. Toute trouvaille, as our authors aptly remark, procure une jouissance.

It will be a positive gain to have the road cleared of a mass of rubbish, that has hindered
the advance of knowledge. History must be worked at in a scientific spirit, as biology or chemistry
is worked at. As M. Seignobos says, "On ne s'arrête plus guère aujourd'hui à discuter, sous
sa forme théologique la théorie de la Providence dans l'Histoire. Mais la tendence à expliquer
les faits historiques par les causes transcendantes persiste dans des théories plus modernes
où la metaphysique se déguise sous des formes scientifiques." We should certainly get rid in
time of those curious Hegelianisms "under which in lay disguise lurks the old theologic theory
of final causes"; or the pseudo-patriotic supposition of the "historic mission (Beruf) attributed
to certain people or persons." The study of historic facts does not even make for the popular
newspaper theory of the continuous and necessary progress of humanity, it shows only "partial
and intermittent advances, and gives us no reason to attribute them to a permanent cause inherent
in collective humanity rather than to a series of local accidents." But the historian's path
is still like that of Bunyan's hero, bordered by pitfalls and haunted by hobgoblins, though
certain of his giant adversaries are crippled and one or two slain. He has also his own faults
to master, or at least to check, as MM. Langlois and Seignobos not infrequently hint, e.g.
"Nearly all beginners have a vexatious tendency to go off into superfluous digressions, heaping
up reflexion and information that have no bearing on the main subject. They will recognise,
if they think over it, that the causes of this leaning are bad taste, a kind of naïve vanity,
sometimes a disordered mind." Again: "The faults of historic works intended for the general
public ... are the results of the insufficient preparation of the bad literary training of
the popularisers." What an admirable criticism there is too of that peculiarly German shortcoming
(one not, however, unknown elsewhere), which results in men "whose learning is ample, whose
monographs destined for scholars are highly praiseworthy, showing themselves capable, when
they write for the public, of sinning heavily against scientific methods," so that, in their
determination to stir their public, "they who are so scrupulous and particular when it is a
question of dealing with minutiæ, abandon themselves like the mass of mankind to their natural
inclinations when they come to set forth general questions. They take sides, they blame, they
praise, they colour, they embellish, they allow themselves to take account of personal, patriotic,
ethical, or metaphysical considerations. Above all, they apply themselves with what talent
has fallen to their lot to the task of creating a work of art, and, so applying themselves,
those of them who lack talent become ridiculous, and the talent of those who possess it is
spoilt by their anxiety for effect."

On the other hand, while the student is rejoicing at the smart raps bestowed upon the Teutonic
offender, he is warned against the error of thinking that "provided he can make himself understood,
the historian has the right to use a faulty, low, careless, or clogged style.... Seeing the
extreme complexity of the phenomena he must endeavour to describe, he has not the privilege
of writing badly. But he ought always to write well, and not to bedizen his prose with extra
finery once a week."

Of course much that is said in this book has been said before, but I do not know any book wherein
the student of history will find such an organised collection of practical and helpful instructions.
There are several points on which one is unable to find oneself in agreement with MM. Langlois
and Seignobos, but these occur mainly where they are dealing with theory; as far as practical
work goes, one finds oneself in almost perfect concurrence with them. That they know little
of the way in which history is taught and studied in England or Canada or the United States
is not at all an hindrance to the use of their book. The student may enjoy the pleasure of
making his own examples out of English books to the rules they lay down. He may compare their
cautions against false reasoning and instances of fallacy with those set forth in that excellent
and concise essay of Bentham's, which is apparently unknown to them. He will not fail to see
that we in England have much to learn in this subject of history from the French. The French
archives are not so fine as ours, but they take care to preserve their local and provincial
documents, as well as their national and central records; they give their archivists a regular
training, they calendar and make accessible all that time and fate have spared of pre-revolutionary
documents. We have not got farther than the provision of a fine central Record Office furnished
with very inadequate means for calendaring the masses of documents already stored and monthly
accumulating there, though we have lately set up at Oxford, Cambridge, and London the regular
courses of palæography, diplomatic, and bibliography, that constitute the preliminary training
of the archivist or historical researcher. We want more: we must have county archives, kept
by trained archivists. We must have more trained archivists at the disposal of the Deputy Keeper
of the Rolls, we must have such means as the Bibliothèque de l'École des Chartes for full reports
of special and minute investigations and discoveries, for hand-lists and the like, before we
can be considered as doing as much for history as the heavily taxed French nation does cheerfully,
and with a sound confidence that the money it spends wisely in science is in the truest sense
money saved.

For those interested in the teaching of history, this book is one of the most suggestive helps
that has yet appeared. With a blackboard, a text (such as are now cheap), or a text-book (such
as Stubbs or Prothero or Gardiner), an atlas, and access to a decent public library and an
average local museum, the teacher who has mastered its intent should never be at a loss for
an interesting catechetical lecture or exposition to a class, whether of adults or of younger folk.

Not the least practical part of the work of MM. Langlois and Seignobos has been the consideration
they have given to such every-day issues as the teacher is constantly called upon to face.
History cannot safely be neglected in schools, though it is by no means necessary that the
Universities should turn out large bodies of trained historians. It is possible indeed that
the serious study of history might gain were there fewer external inducements at the Universities
to lead to the popularity of the History Schools. But in this very popularity there lies a
great opportunity for concerted efforts, not only to better the processes of study, but also
to clear off the vast arrears of classification and examination of the erroneous historic material
at our disposition in this country.

The historian has been (as our authors hint) too much the ally of the politician; he has used
his knowledge as material for preaching democracy in the United States, absolutism in Prussia,
Orleanist opposition in France, and so on (English readers will easily recall examples from
their own countrymen's work): in the century to come he will have to ally himself with the
students of physical science, with whose methods his own have so much in common. It is not
patriotism, nor religion, nor art, but the attainment of truth that is and must be the historian's
single aim.

But it is also to be borne in mind that history is an excellent instrument of culture, for,
as our authors point out, "the practice and method of historic investigation is a pursuit extremely
healthful for the mind, freeing it from the disease of credulity," and fortifying it in other
ways as a discipline, though precisely how to best use history for this purpose is still in
some ways uncertain, and after all it is a matter which concerns Pædagogic and Ethic more than
the student of history, though it is plain that MM. Langlois and Seignobos have not neglected
to consider it.

One can hardly help thinking, too, that, in schools and places where the young are trained,
something might be gained by treating such books as Plutarch's Lives not as history (for which
they were never intended) but as text-books of ethic, as examples of conduct, public or private.
The historian very properly furnishes the ethical student with material, though it is not right
to reckon the ethical student's judgment upon the historian's facts as history in any sense.
It is not an historian's question, for instance, whether Napoleon was right or wrong in his
conduct at Jaffa, or Nelson in his behaviour at Naples; that is a matter for the student of
ethic or the religious dogmatist to decide: all that the historian has to do is to get what
conclusion he can out of the conflict of evidence, and to decide whether Napoleon or Nelson
actually did that of which their enemies accused them, or, if he cannot arrive at fact, to
state probability, and the reasons that incline him to lean to the affirmative or negative.

As to the possibility of a "philosophy of history," a real one, not the mockeries that have
long been discredited by scientific students, the reader will find some pregnant remarks here
in the epilogue and the chapters that precede it. There is an absence of unreasonable optimism
in our authors' views. "It is probable that hereditary differences have contributed to determine
events; so that in part historic evolution is produced by physiological and anthropologic causes.
But history furnishes no trustworthy process by which it may be possible to determine the action
of those hereditary differences between man and man," i.e. she starts with races 'endowed'
each with peculiarities that make them 'disposed to act' somewhat differently under similar
pressure. "History is only able to grasp the conditions of their existence." And what M. Seignobos
calls the final problem--Is evolution produced merely by changed conditions?--must according
to him remain insoluble by the legitimate processes of history. The student may accept or reject
this view as his notions of evidence prompt him to do. M. Seignobos has at all events laid
down a basis for discussion in sufficiently clear terms.

As to the composition of the joint work we are told that M. Seignobos has been especially concerned
with the chapters that touch theory, and M. Langlois with those that deal with practice. Both
authors have already proved their competence--M. Seignobos' labours on Modern History have
been widely appreciated, while M. Langlois' "Hand-book of Historic Bibliography" is already
a standard text-book, and bids fair to remain so. We are grateful to both of them for the pains
they have taken to be clear and definite, and for their determination to shirk none of the
difficulties that have met them. They have produced a hand-book that students will use and
value in proportion to their use of it, a book that will save much muddle of thought and much
loss of time, a book written in the right spirit to inspire its readers. We are not bound to
agree with all M. Seignobos' dogmas, and can hardly accept, for instance, M. Langlois' apology
for the brutal methods of controversy that are an evil legacy from the theologian and the grammarian,
and are apt to darken truth and to cripple the powers of those who engage in them. For though
it is possible that the secondary effect of these barbarous scuffles may sometimes have been
salutary in deterring impostors from 'taking up' history, I am not aware of any positive examples
to justify this opinion. There is this, however, to be said, that fully conscious of their
own fallibility, M. Langlois and his excellent collaborator have supplied in their canons of
criticism and maxims the best corrections of any mistakes into which they may have fallen by
the way. Is not the House of Fame, as the poet tells us, a more wonderful and quaintly wrought
habitation than Domus Dedali itself? And may not honest historians be pardoned if they are
sometimes confused for a brief moment by the never-ending noise and marvellous motion of that
deceptive mint and treasury, and fatigued by the continual trial and examination of the material
that issues therefrom? The student will, at least, learn from MM. Langlois and Seignobos to
have no mercy on his own shortcomings, to spare no pains, to grudge no expenditure of time
or energy in the investigation of a carefully chosen and important historical problem, to aim
at doing the bit of work in hand so thoroughly that it will not need to be done again.

It would be unjust to omit here to mention Dr. Bernheim's "Exposition of Historic Method,"
or Lehrbuch der historischen Methode, so justly praised and used by our authors, but I believe
that as an introduction to the subject, intended for the use of English or North American students,
this little volume will be found the handier and more practical work. Of its value to English
workers I can speak from experience, and I know many teachers to whom it will be welcome in
its present form.

It would have been easy to 'adapt' this book by altering its examples, by modifying its excellent
plan, by cutting here and carving there to the supposed convenience of an imaginary public,
but the better part has been chosen of giving English readers this manual precisely as it appeared
in French. And surely one would rather read what M. Langlois, an experienced teacher and a
tried scholar, thought on a moot point, than be presented with the views of some English 'adaptor'
who had read his book, as to what he would have said had he been an Englishman lecturing to
English students. That the present translator has taken much pains to faithfully report his
authors, I know (though I have not compared English and French throughout every page), so that
I can commend his honest work to the reader as I have already commended the excellent matter
that he has been concerned in preparing for a wider public than the French original could command.

F. YORK POWELL.

ORIEL COLLEGE, OXFORD, July 1898.

CONTENTS

PAGE

TO THE READER      v

AUTHORS' PREFACE

What this work is not meant to be--Works on the Philosophy of History                     
1

What it is meant to be                                               2

Existing works on Historical Methods--Droysen, Freeman, Daunou, &c.                       
3

Reasons why the study of method is useful                              7

Bernheim's Lehrbuch--In what way it leaves room for another book                          
10

Need of warning to students                                           11

The general public                                                    13

Distribution of the work between the two authors                      13

BOOK I

PRELIMINARY STUDIES

CHAPTER I

THE SEARCH FOR DOCUMENTS

Documents: their nature, use, necessity                               17

Utility of Heuristic, or the art of discovering documents           18

The difficulties of Heuristic--Ancient times--H. H. Bancroft--State of things at the Renaissance
19

Growth of libraries--Collectors--Effects of revolutionary confiscation in promoting the concentration
and the accessibility of documents                                            20

Possible future progress--Need for the cataloguing and indexing of documents              
27

Students and bibliographical knowledge--Effect of present conditions in deterring men from
historical work                      32

The remedies--Official cataloguing of libraries--Activity of learned societies--of governments
34

Different kinds of bibliographical works needed by students           37

Different degrees of difficulty of Heuristic in different parts of History--to be kept in view
when choosing a subject of research                                                              38

CHAPTER II

"AUXILIARY SCIENCES"

Documents are raw material, and need a preliminary elaboration        42

Obsolete views on the historian's apprenticeship--Mably, Daunou                           
43

Commonplace and exaggeration on this subject--Freeman--Various futilities                 
45

The scientific conception of the historian's apprenticeship--Palæography--Epigraphy--Philology--Diplomatic
48

History of Literature--Archæology                                     51

Criticism of phrase "auxiliary sciences"--The subjects not all sciences--None of them auxiliary
to the whole of History          52

This scientific conception is of recent growth--The École des Chartes--Modern manuals of Palæography,
Epigraphy, &c.--List of the chief of them                                        55

BOOK II

ANALYTICAL OPERATIONS

CHAPTER I

GENERAL CONDITIONS OF HISTORICAL KNOWLEDGE

Direct and indirect knowledge of facts                                63

History not a science of direct observation--Its data obtained by chains of reasoning     
64

Twofold division of Historical Criticism: External, investigating the transmission and origin
of documents and the statements in them; Internal, dealing with the content of the statements
and their probability                               66

Complexity of Historical Criticism                                    67

Necessity of Criticism--The human mind naturally uncritical           68

SECTION I.--EXTERNAL CRITICISM

CHAPTER II

TEXTUAL CRITICISM

Errors in the reproduction of documents: their frequency under the most favourable conditions--Mistakes
of copyists--"Sound" and "corrupt" texts                                 71

Necessity of emendation--The method subject to fixed rules            73

Methods of textual criticism: (a) original preserved; (b) a single copy preserved, conjectural
emendation; (c) several copies preserved, comparison of errors, families of manuscripts       75

Different degrees of difficulty of textual criticism: its results negative--The "emendation
game"--What still remains to be done                                                            83

CHAPTER III

CRITICAL INVESTIGATION OF AUTHORSHIP
                                                                    PAGE
Natural tendency to accept indications of authorship--Examples
of false attributions--Necessity of verification--Application
of internal criticism                                                 87

Interpolations and continuations--Evidence of style                   92

Plagiarism and borrowings by authors from each other--The filiation of statements--The investigation
of sources                 93

Importance of investigations of authorship--The extreme of distrust to be avoided--Criticism
only a means to an end              98

CHAPTER IV

CRITICAL CLASSIFICATION OF SOURCES

Importance of classification--The first impulse wrong--The note-book system not the best--Nor
the ledger-system--Nor the "system" of trusting the memory                                  101

The system of slips the best--Its drawbacks--Means of obviating them--The advantage of good
"private librarianship"        103

Methods of work vary according to the object aimed at--The compiling of Regesta or of a Corpus--Classification
by time, place, species, and form                                       105

Chronological arrangement to be used when possible--Geographical arrangement best for inscriptions--When
these fail, alphabetical order of "incipit"--Logical order useful for some special purposes--Not
for a Corpus or for Regesta       107

CHAPTER V

CRITICAL SCHOLARSHIP AND SCHOLARS

Different opinions on the importance and dignity of external criticism--It is justified by
its necessity--But is only preliminary to the higher part of historical work                    112

Distinction between "historians" and "critical scholars" [Fr. "érudite"]--Expediency, within
limits, of the division of labour in this respect--The exceptional skill acquired by specialists--Difference
of work the corollary of difference of natural aptitudes                                  
115

The natural aptitudes required for external criticism--Fondness for the work, which is distasteful
to the creative genius--The puzzle-solving instinct--Accuracy and its opposite--"Froude's Disease"--Patience,
order, perseverance          121

The mental defects produced by devotion to external criticism--Its paralysing effect on the
over-scrupulous--Hypercriticism--Dilettantism                        128

The "organisation of scientific labour"                              135

The harshness of judgment attributed to scholars, not always rightly--Much of it a proper jealousy
for historic truth--Bad work nowadays soon detected                                          136

SECTION II.--INTERNAL CRITICISM

CHAPTER VI

INTERPRETATIVE CRITICISM (HERMENEUTIC)

Internal criticism deals with the mental operations which begin with the observation of a fact
and end with the writing of words in a document--It is divided into two stages: the first concerned
with what the author meant, the second with the value of his statements                   
141

Necessity of separating the two operations--Danger of reading opinions into a text        
143

The analysis of documents--The method of slips--Completeness necessary                    
145

Necessity of linguistic study--General knowledge of a language not enough--Particular variety
of a language as used at a given time, in a given country, by a given author--The rule of context
146

Different degrees of difficulty in interpretation                    149

Oblique senses: allegory, metaphor, &c.--How to detect them--Former tendency to find symbolism
everywhere--Modern tendency to find allusion everywhere                                 151

Results of interpretation--Subjective inquiries                      153

CHAPTER VII

THE NEGATIVE INTERNAL CRITICISM OF THE GOOD FAITH AND ACCURACY OF AUTHORS

Natural tendency to trust documents--Criticism originally due to contradictions--The rule of
methodical doubt--Defective modes of criticism                                            
155

Documents to be analysed, and the irreducible elements criticised separately              
159

The "accent of sincerity"--No trust to be placed in impressions produced by the form of statements
161

Criticism examines the conditions affecting (1) the composition of the document as a whole;
(2) the making of each particular statement--In both cases using a previously made list of
possible reasons for distrust or confidence                  162

Reasons for doubting good faith: (1) the author's interest; (2) the force of circumstances,
official reports; (3) sympathy and antipathy; (4) vanity; (5) deference to public opinion;
(6) literary distortion                                     166

Reasons for doubting accuracy: (1) the author a bad observer, hallucinations, illusions, prejudices;
(2) the author not well situated for observing; (3) negligence and indifference; (4) fact not
of nature to be directly observed                       172

Cases where the author is not the original observer of the fact--Tradition, written and oral--Legend--Anecdotes--Anonymous
statements                                                           177

Special reasons without which anonymous statements are not to be accepted: (1) falsehood improbable
because (a) the fact is opposed to interest or vanity of author, (b) the fact was generally
known, (c) the fact was indifferent to the author; (2) error improbable because the fact was
too big to mistake; (3) the fact seemed improbable or unintelligible to the author        
185

How critical operations are shortened in practice                    189

CHAPTER VIII

THE DETERMINATION OF PARTICULAR FACTS

The conceptions of authors, whether well or ill founded, are the subject-matter of certain
studies--They necessarily contain elements of truth, which, under certain restrictions, may
sometimes be inferred from them                                  191

The statements of authors, taken singly, do not rise above probability--The only sure results
of criticism are negative--To establish facts it is necessary to compare different statements
194

Contradictions between statements, real and apparent                 198

Agreement of statements--Necessity of proving them to be independent--Perfect agreement not
so conclusive as occasional coincidence--Cases where different observations of the same fact
are not independent--General facts the easiest to prove                                   
199

Different facts, each imperfectly proved, corroborate each other when they harmonise      
204

Disagreement between documents and other sources of knowledge--Improbable statements--Miracles--When
science and history conflict, history should give way                        205

BOOK III

SYNTHETIC OPERATIONS

CHAPTER I

GENERAL CONDITIONS OF HISTORICAL CONSTRUCTION

The materials of Historical Construction are isolated facts, of very different kinds, of very
different degrees of generality, each belonging to a definite time and place, of different
degrees of certainty                                    211

Subjectivity of History                                              214

The facts learnt from documents relate to (1) living beings and material objects; (2) actions,
individual and collective; (3) motives and conceptions                                          217

The facts of the past must be imagined on the model of those of the present--Danger of error
especially in regard to mental facts                                                         219

Some of the conditions of human life are permanent--The study of these provides a framework
into which details taken from documents are to be fitted--For this purpose systematic lists
of questions are to be used, drawn up beforehand, and relating to the universal conditions
of life         224

Outline of Historical Construction--The division of labour--Historians must use the works of
their colleagues and predecessors, but not without critical precautions                   228

CHAPTER II

THE GROUPING OF FACTS

Historical facts may be classified and arranged either according to their time and place, or
according to their nature--Scheme for the logical classification of general historical facts
232

The selection of facts for treatment--The history of civilisation and "battle-history"--Both
needed                                    236

The determination of groups of men--Precautions to be observed--The notion of "race"      
238

The study of institutions--Danger of being misled by metaphors--The questions which should
be asked                                      241

Evolutions: operations involved in the study of them--The place of particular facts (events)
in evolution--Important and unimportant facts                                                244

Periods--How they should be defined                                  249

CHAPTER III

CONSTRUCTIVE REASONING

Incompleteness of the facts yielded by documents--Cautions to be observed in filling up the
gaps by reasoning                   252

The argument from silence--When admissible                           254

Positive reasoning based on documents--The general principles employed must enter into details,
and the particular facts to which they are applied must not be taken in isolation         
256

CHAPTER IV

THE CONSTRUCTION OF GENERAL FORMULÆ

History, like every science, needs formulæ by which the facts acquired may be condensed into
manageable form                       262

Descriptive formulæ--Should retain characteristic features--Should be as concrete as possible
264

Formulæ describing general facts--How constructed--Conventional forms and realities--Mode of
formulating an evolution                                                            266

Formulæ describing unique facts--Principle of choice--"Character" of persons--Precautions in
formulating them--Formulæ describing events                                      270

Quantitative formulæ--Operations by which they may be obtained: measurement, enumeration, valuation,
sampling, generalisation--Precautions to be observed in generalising           274

Formulæ expressing relations--General conclusions--Estimation of the extent and value of the
knowledge acquired--Imperfection of data not to be forgotten in construction              
279

Groups and their classification                                      282

The "solidarity" of social phenomena--Necessity of studying causes--Metaphysical hypothesis--Providence--Conception
of events as "rational"--The Hegelian "ideas"--The historical "mission"--The theory of the
general progress of humanity                                                 285

The conception of society as an organism--The comparative method--Statistics--Causes cannot
be investigated directly, as in other sciences--Causation as exhibited in the sequence of particular
events                                    288

The study of the causes of social evolution must look beyond abstractions to the concrete,
acting and thinking men--The place of hereditary characteristics in determining evolution 
292

CHAPTER V

EXPOSITION

Former conceptions of history-writing--The ancient and mediæval ideal--The "history of civilisation"--The
modern historical "manual"--The romantic ideal at the beginning of the century--History regarded
as a branch of literature up to 1850                                             296

The modern scientific ideal--Monographs--Right choice of subject--References--Chronological
order--Unambiguous titles--Economy of erudition                                         303

General works--A. meant for students and specialists--Works of reference or "repertories" and
scientific manuals of special branches of history--Their form and style--Collaboration in their
production--Scientific general histories                                                  
307

B. Works intended for the public--The best kind of popularisation--The inferior kind--Specialists
who lower their standard when they write for the public--The literary style suitable for history
311

CONCLUSION

Summary description of the methods of history--The future of history                      
316

The utility of history--Not directly applicable to present conditions--Affords an explanation
of the present--Helps (and is helped by) the social sciences--A means of intellectual culture
319

APPENDIX I

THE SECONDARY TEACHING OF HISTORY IN FRANCE

Late introduction of history as a subject of secondary instruction--Defective methods employed
up to the end of the Second Empire                                                        325

The reform movement--Questions involved relating to general organisation--Choice of subjects--Order
of teaching--Methods of instruction--These questions to be answered in the way that will make
history most useful as a means of social culture                                          
328

Material aids--Engravings--Books--Methods of teaching                332

APPENDIX II

THE HIGHER TEACHING OF HISTORY IN FRANCE

The different institutions--The Collège de France--The Faculties of Letters--The École Normale--The
École des Chartes--The École pratique des hautes Études                        335

Reform of the Faculties--Preparation for degrees--The Examination question--Principles on which
it is to be solved--The Diplôme d'études supérieures                           340

Influence of the movement on the other institutions--Co-operation of the institutions     
345

INDEX OF PROPER NAMES                                                347

AUTHORS' PREFACE

The title of this work is clear. However, it is necessary to state succinctly both what our
intention has, and what it has not been; for under this same title, "Introduction to the Study
of History," very different books have already been published.

It has not been our intention to give, as Mr. W. B. Boyce[1] has done, a summary of universal
history for the use of beginners and readers of scanty leisure.

Nor has it been our intention to add a new item to the abundant literature of what is ordinarily
called the "Philosophy of History." Thinkers, for the most part not professed historians, have
made history the subject of their meditations; they have sought for its "analogies" and its
"laws." Some have supposed themselves to have discovered "the laws which have governed the
development of humanity," and thus to have "raised history to the rank of a positive science."[2]
These vast abstract constructions inspire with an invincible a priori mistrust, not the general
public only, but superior minds as well. Fustel de Coulanges, as his latest biographer tells
us, was severe on the Philosophy of History; these systems were as repugnant to him as metaphysics
to the positivists. Rightly or wrongly (without doubt wrongly), the Philosophy of History,
not having been cultivated exclusively by well-informed, cautious men of vigorous and sound
judgment, has fallen into disrepute. The reader will be reassured--or disappointed, as the
case may be--to learn that this subject will find no place in the present work.[3]

We propose to examine the conditions and the methods, to indicate the character and the limits,
of historical knowledge. How do we ascertain, in respect of the past, what part of it it is
possible, what part of it it is important, to know? What is a document? How are documents to
be treated with a view to historical work? What are historical facts? How are they to be grouped
to make history? Whoever occupies himself with history performs, more or less unconsciously,
complicated operations of criticism and construction, of analysis and synthesis. But beginners,
and the majority of those who have never reflected on the principles of historical methodology,
make use, in the performance of these operations, of instinctive methods which, not being,
in general, rational methods, do not usually lead to scientific truth. It is, therefore, useful
to make known and logically justify the theory of the truly rational methods--a theory which
is now settled in some parts, though still incomplete in some points of capital importance.

The present "Introduction to the Study of History" is thus intended, not as a summary of ascertained
facts or a system of general ideas on universal history, but as an essay on the method of the
historical sciences.

We proceed to state the reasons why we have thought such a work opportune, and to explain the
spirit in which we have undertaken to write it.

I

The books which treat of the methodology of the historical sciences are scarcely less numerous,
and at the same time not in much better favour, than the books on the Philosophy of History.
Specialists despise them. A widespread opinion is expressed in the words attributed to a certain
scholar: "You wish to write a book on philology; you will do much better to produce a book
with some good philology in it. When I am asked to define philology, I always answer that it
is what I work at."[4] Again, in reference to J. G. Droysen's Précis of the Science of History,
a certain critic expressed an opinion which was meant to be, and was, a commonplace: "Generally
speaking, treatises of this kind are of necessity both obscure and useless: obscure, because
there is nothing more vague than their object; useless, because it is possible to be an historian
without troubling oneself about the principles of historical methodology which they claim to
exhibit."[5] The arguments used by these despisers of methodology are strong enough in all
appearance. They reduce to the following. As a matter of fact, there are men who manifestly
follow good methods, and are universally recognised as scholars or historians of the first
order, without having ever studied the principles of method; conversely, it does not appear
that those who have written on historical method from the logical point of view have in consequence
attained any marked superiority as scholars or historians: some, indeed, have been known for
their incompetence or mediocrity in these capacities. In this there is nothing that need surprise
us. Who would think of postponing original research in chemistry, mathematics, the sciences
proper, until he had studied the methods employed in those sciences? Historical criticism!
Yes, but the best way to learn it is to apply it; practice teaches all that is wanted.[6] Take,
too, the extant works on historical method, even the most recent of them, those of J. G. Droysen,
E. A. Freeman, A. Tardif, U. Chevalier, and others; the utmost diligence will extract from
them nothing in the way of clear ideas beyond the most obvious and commonplace truisms.[7]

We willingly recognise that this manner of thinking is not entirely wrong. The great majority
of works on the method of pursuing historical investigations and of writing history--what is
called Historic in Germany and England--are superficial, insipid, unreadable, sometimes ridiculous.[8]
To begin with, those prior to the nineteenth century, a full analysis of which is given by
P. C. F. Daunou in the seventh volume of his Cours d'études historiques,[9] are nearly all
of them mere treatises on rhetoric, in which the rhetoric is antiquated, and the problems discussed
are the oddest imaginable.[10] Daunou makes merry over them, but he himself has shown good
sense and nothing more in his monumental work, which at the present time seems little better,
and certainly not more useful, than the earlier treatises.[11] As to the modern ones, it is
true that not all have been able to escape the two dangers to which works of this character
are exposed--that of being obscure on the one hand, or commonplace on the other. J. G. Droysen's
Grundriss der Historik is heavy, pedantic, and confused beyond all imagination.[12] Freeman,
Tardif, and Chevalier tell us nothing but what is elementary and obvious. Their followers may
still be observed discussing at interminable length idle questions, such as: whether history
is a science or an art; what are the duties of history; what is the use of history; and so
on. On the other hand, there is incontestable truth in the remark that nearly all the specialists
and historians of to-day are, as far as method goes, self-taught, with no training except what
they have gained by practice, or by imitating and associating with the older masters of the craft.

But though many works on the principles of method justify the distrust with which such works
are generally regarded, and though most professed historians have been able, apparently with
no ill results, to dispense with reflection upon historical method, it would, in our opinion,
be a strained inference to conclude that specialists and historians (especially those of the
future) have no need to make themselves acquainted with the processes of historical work. The
literature of methodology is, in fact, not without its value: gradually there has been formed
a treasury of subtle observations and precise rules, suggested by experience, which are something
more than mere common sense.[13] And, admitting the existence of those who, without having
ever learnt to reason, always reason well, by a gift of nature, it would be easy to set against
these exceptions innumerable cases in which ignorance of logic, the use of irrational methods,
want of reflection on the conditions of historical analysis and synthesis, have robbed the
work of specialists and historians of much of its value.

The truth is, that, of all branches of study, history is without a doubt the one in which it
is most necessary for students to have a clear consciousness of the methods they use. The reason
is, that in history instinctive methods are, as we cannot too often repeat, irrational methods;
some preparation is therefore required to counteract the first impulse. Besides, the rational
methods of obtaining historical knowledge differ so widely from the methods of all other sciences,
that some perception of their distinctive features is necessary to avoid the temptation of
applying to history the methods of those sciences which have already been systematised. This
explains why mathematicians and chemists can, more easily than historians, dispense with an
"introduction" to their subject. There is no need to insist at greater length on the utility
of historical methodology, for there is evidently nothing very serious in the attacks which
have been made on it. But it behooves us to explain the reasons which have led to the composition
of the present work. For the last fifty years a great number of intelligent and open-minded
men have meditated on the methods of the historical sciences. Naturally we find among them
many historians, university professors, whose position enables them to understand better than
others the intellectual needs of the young; but at the same time professed logicians, and even
novelists. In this connection, Fustel de Coulanges left a tradition behind him at the University
of Paris. "He endeavoured," we are told,[14] "to reduce the rules of method to very precise
formulæ ...; in his view no task was more urgent than that of teaching students how to attain
truth." Among these men, some, like Renan,[15] have been content to insert scattered observations
in their general works or their occasional writings;[16] others, as Fustel de Coulanges, Freeman,
Droysen, Laurence, Stubbs, De Smedt, Von Pflugk-Harttung, and so on, have taken the trouble
to express their thoughts on the subject in special treatises. There are many books, "inaugural
lectures," "academic orations," and review-articles, published in all countries, but especially
in France, Germany, England, the United States, and Italy, both on the whole subject of methodology
and on the different parts of it. It will occur to the reader that it would be a far from useless
labour to collect and arrange the observations which are scattered, and, one might say, lost,
in these numerous books and minor writings. But it is too late to undertake this pleasant task;
it has been recently performed, and in the most painstaking manner. Professor Ernst Bernheim,
of the University of Greifswald, has worked through nearly all the modern works on historical
method, and the fruit of his labours is an arrangement under appropriate headings, most of
them invented by himself, of a great number of reflections and selected references. His Lehrbuch
der historischen Methode[17] (Leipzig, 1894, 8vo) condenses, in the manner of German Lehrbücher,
the special literature of the subject of which it treats. It is not our intention to do over
again what has already been done so well. But we are of opinion that even after this laborious
and well-planned compilation something still remains to be said. In the first place, Professor
Bernheim deals largely with metaphysical problems which we consider devoid of interest; while,
conversely, he entirely ignores certain considerations which appear to us to be, both theoretically
and practically, of the greatest importance. In the second place, the teaching of the Lehrbuch
is sound enough, but lacks vigour and originality. Lastly, the Lehrbuch is not addressed to
the general public; both the language in which it is written and the form in which it is composed
render it inaccessible to the great majority of French readers. This is enough to justify our
undertaking to write a book of our own, instead of simply recommending the book of Professor
Bernheim.[18]

II

This "Introduction to the Study of History" does not claim, like the Lehrbuch der historischen
Methode, to be a treatise on historical methodology.[19] It is a sketch in outline. We undertook
its composition, at the beginning of the scholastic year 1896-97, in order that the new students
at the Sorbonne might be warned what the study of history is and ought to be.

Long experience has taught us the necessity of such warnings. The greater part of those who
enter upon a career of historical study do so, as a matter of fact, without knowing why, without
having ever asked themselves whether they are fitted for historical work, of the true nature
of which they are often ignorant. Generally their motives for choosing an historical career
are of the most futile character. One has been successful in history at college;[20] another
feels himself drawn towards the past by the same kind of romantic attraction which, we are
told, determined the vocation of Augustin Thierry; some are misled by the fancy that history
is a comparatively easy subject. It is certainly important that these irrational votaries should
be enlightened and put to the test as soon as possible.

Having given a course of lectures, to novices, by way of "Introduction to the Study of History,"
we thought that, with a little revision, these lectures might be made useful to others besides
novices. Scholars and professed historians will doubtless have nothing to learn from this work;
but if they should find in it a stimulus to personal reflection on the craft which some of
them practise in a mechanical fashion, that would be something gained. As for the public, which
reads the works of historians, is it not desirable that it should know how these works are
produced, in order to be able to judge them better?

We do not, therefore, like Professor Bernheim, write exclusively for present and future specialists,
but also for the public interested in history. We thus lay ourselves under an obligation to
be as concise, as clear, and as little technical as possible. But to be concise and clear on
subjects of this kind often means to appear superficial. Commonplace on the one hand, obscurity
on the other: these, as we have already seen, are the evils between which we have the sorry
privilege of choosing. We admit the difficulty. But we do not think it insurmountable, and
our endeavour has been to say what we had to say in the clearest possible manner.

The first half of the book has been written by M. Langlois, the second by M. Seignobos; but
the two collaborators have constantly aided, consulted, and checked each other.[21]

PARIS, August 1897.

INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF HISTORY

BOOK I

PRELIMINARY STUDIES

CHAPTER I

THE SEARCH FOR DOCUMENTS (HEURISTIC)

The historian works with documents. Documents are the traces which have been left by the thoughts
and actions of men of former times. Of these thoughts and actions, however, very few leave
any visible traces, and these traces, when there are any, are seldom durable; an accident is
enough to efface them. Now every thought and every action that has left no visible traces,
or none but what have since disappeared, is lost for history; is as though it had never been.
For want of documents the history of immense periods in the past of humanity is destined to
remain for ever unknown. For there is no substitute for documents: no documents, no history.

In order to draw legitimate inferences from a document to the fact of which it is the trace,
numerous precautions are requisite which will be indicated in the sequel. But it is clear that,
prior to any critical examination or interpretation of documents, the question presents itself
whether there are any documents at all, how many there are, and where they are. If I undertake
to deal with a point of history,[22] of whatever nature, my first step will be to ascertain
the place or places where the documents necessary for its treatment, if any such exist, are
to be found. The search for and the collection of documents is thus a part, logically the first
and most important part, of the historian's craft. In Germany it has received the convenient,
because short, name of Heuristik. Is there any need to prove the capital importance of Heuristic?
Assuredly not. It is obvious that if it is neglected, if the student does not, before he sets
to work on a point of history, place himself in a position to command all accessible sources
of information, his risk (no small one at the best) of working upon insufficient data is quite
unnecessarily increased: works of erudition or history constructed in accordance with the rules
of the most exact method have been vitiated, or even rendered worthless, by the accidental
circumstance that the author was unacquainted with the documents by which those which he had
within reach, and with which he was content, might have been illustrated, supplemented, or
discredited. The scholars and historians of to-day, standing, as they do, in other respects
on an equality with their predecessors of the last few centuries, are only enabled to surpass
them by their possession of more abundant means of information.[23] Heuristic is, in fact,
easier to-day than it used to be, although the honest Wagner has still good grounds for saying:

    "Wie schwer sind nicht die Mittel zu erwerben,
    Durch die man zu den Quellen steigt!"[24]

Let us endeavour to explain why the collection of documents, once so laborious, is still no
easy matter, in spite of the progress made in the last century; and how this essential operation
may, in the course of continued progress, be still further simplified.

I. Those who first endeavoured to write history from the sources found themselves in an embarrassing
situation. Were the events they proposed to relate recent, so that all the witnesses of them
were not yet dead? They had the resource of interviewing the witnesses who survived. Thucydides,
Froissart, and many others have followed this procedure. When Mr. H. H. Bancroft, the historian
of the Pacific Coast of California, resolved to collect materials for the history of events
many of the actors in which were still alive, he mobilised a whole army of reporters charged
to extract conversations from them.[25] But when the events to be related were ancient, so
that no man then living could have witnessed them, and no account of them had been preserved
by oral tradition, what then? Nothing was left but to collect documents of every kind, principally
written ones, relating to the distant past which was to be studied. This was a difficult task
at a time when libraries were rare, archives secret, and documents scattered. About the year
1860, Mr. Bancroft, in California, was in a situation analogous to that of the earlier researchers
in our part of the world. His plan was as follows: He was rich; he cleared the market of all
documents, printed or manuscript; he negotiated with financially embarrassed families and corporations
for the purchase of their archives, or the permission to have them copied by his paid agents.
This done, he housed his collection in premises built for the purpose, and classified it. Theoretically
there could not be a more rational procedure. But this rapid, American method has only once
been employed with sufficient resources and sufficient consistency to ensure its success; at
any other time, and in any other place, it would have been out of the question. Nowhere else
have the circumstances been so favourable for it.

At the epoch of the Renaissance the documents of ancient and modern history were scattered
in innumerable private libraries and in innumerable depositories of archives, almost all of
them inaccessible, not to mention those which lay hidden beneath the soil, their very existence
as yet unsuspected. It was at that time a physical impossibility to procure a list of all the
documents serving for the elucidation of a question (for example, a list of all the manuscripts
still preserved of an ancient work); and if, by a miracle, such a list was to be had, it was
another impossibility to consult all these documents except at the cost of journeys, expenses,
and negotiations without end. Consequences easy to foresee did, as a matter of fact, ensue.
Firstly, the difficulties of Heuristic being insurmountable, the earliest scholars and historians--employing,
as they did, not all the documents, nor the best documents, but those documents on which they
could lay their hands--were nearly always ill-informed; and their works are now without interest
except so far as they are founded on documents which have since been lost. Secondly, the first
scholars and historians to be relatively well-informed were those who, in virtue of their profession,
had access to rich storehouses of documents--librarians, keepers of archives, monks, magistrates,
whose order or whose corporation possessed libraries or archives of considerable extent.[26]

It is true that collectors soon arose who, by money payments, or by more questionable expedients,
such as theft, formed, with more or less regard for the interests of scientific study, "cabinets"
of collections of original documents, and of copies. But these European collectors, of whom
there has been a great number since the fifteenth century, differ very noticeably from Mr.
Bancroft. The Californian, in fact, only collected documents relating to a particular subject
(the history of certain Pacific states), and his ambition was to make his collection complete;
most European collectors have acquired waifs and strays and fragments of every description,
forming, when combined, totals which appear insignificant by the side of the huge mass of historical
documents which existed at the time. Besides, it was not, in general, with any purpose of making
them generally accessible that collectors like Peiresc, Gaignières, Clairambault, Colbert,
and many others, withdrew from circulation documents which were in danger of being lost; they
were content (and it was creditable to do as much as this) to share them, more or less freely,
with their friends. But collectors (and their heirs) are fickle people, and sometimes eccentric
in their notions. Certainly it is better that documents should be preserved in private collections,
than that they should be entirely unprotected and absolutely inaccessible to the scientific
worker; but in order that Heuristic should be made really easier, the first condition is that
all collections of documents should be public.[27]

Now the finest private collections of documents--libraries and museums combined--were naturally,
in the Europe of the Renaissance, those possessed by kings. And while other private collections
were often dispersed upon the death of their founders, these, on the contrary, never ceased
to grow; they were enriched, indeed, by the wreckage of all the others. The Cabinet des manuscrits
de France, for example, formed by the French kings, and by them thrown open to the public,
had, at the end of the eighteenth century, absorbed the best part of the collections which
had been the personal work of the amateurs and scholars of the two preceding centuries.[28]
Similarly in other countries. The concentration of a great number of historical documents in
vast public (or semi-public) establishments was the fortunate result of this spontaneous evolution.

The arbitrary proceedings of the Revolution were still more favourable, and still more effective
in securing the amelioration of the material conditions of historical research. The Revolution
of 1789 in France, analogous movements in other countries, led to the violent confiscation,
for the profit of the state (that is, of everybody), of a host of private archives and collections--the
archives, libraries, and museums of the crown, the archives and libraries of monasteries and
suppressed corporations, and so on. In France, in 1790, the Constituent Assembly thus placed
the state in possession of a great number of depositories of historical documents, previously
scattered, and guarded more or less jealously from the curiosity of scholars; these treasures
have since been divided among four different national institutions. The same phenomenon has
been more recently observed, on a smaller scale, in Germany, Spain, and Italy.

The confiscations of the revolutionary period, as well as the collections of the period which
preceded it, have both been productive of serious damage. The collector is, or rather often
was, a barbarian who did not hesitate, when he saw a chance of adding to his collection of
specimens and rare remains, to mutilate monuments, to dissect manuscripts, to break up whole
archives, in order to possess himself of the fragments. On this score many acts of vandalism
were perpetrated before the Revolution. Naturally, the revolutionary procedure of confiscation
and transference was also productive of lamentable consequences; besides the destruction which
was the result of negligence and that which was due to the mere pleasure of destroying, the
unfortunate idea arose that collections might be systematically weeded, those documents only
to be preserved which were "interesting" or "useful," the rest to be got rid of. The task of
weeding was entrusted to well-meaning but incompetent and overworked men, who were thus led
to commit irreparable havoc in our ancient archives. At the present day there are workers engaged
in the task, one requiring an extraordinary amount of time, patience, and care, of restoring
the dismembered collections, and replacing the fragments which were then isolated in so brutal
a manner by these zealous but unreflecting manipulators of historical documents. It must be
recognised, moreover, that the mutilations due to revolutionary activity and the pre-revolutionary
collectors are insignificant in comparison with those which are the result of accident and
the destructive work of time. But had they been ten times as serious, they would have been
amply compensated by two advantages of the first importance, on which we cannot lay too much
stress: (1) the concentration, in a relatively small number of depositories, of documents which
were formerly scattered, and, as it were, lost, in a hundred different places; (2) the opening
of these depositories to the public. The remnant of historical documents which has survived
the destructive effects of accident and vandalism is now at last safely housed, classified,
made accessible, and treated as public property.

Ancient historical documents are now, as we have seen, collected and preserved chiefly in those
public institutions which are called archives, libraries, and museums. It is true that this
does not apply to all existing documents; in spite of the unceasing acquisitions by purchase
and gift which archives, libraries, and museums all over the world have been making every year
for a long time past, there still exist private collections, dealers who supply them, and documents
in circulation. But the exceptions, which in this case are negligeable, do not affect the general
rule. Besides, all the ancient documents which, in limited quantity, still range at large,
are destined sooner or later to find their way into the state institutions, whose doors are
always open to let in, but never to let out.[29]

It is to be desired, as a matter of principle, that the depositories of documents (archives,
libraries, and museums) should not be too numerous; and we have pointed out that, fortunately,
they are now beyond comparison less numerous than they were a hundred years ago. Could not
the centralisation of documents, with its evident advantages for researchers, be carried still
further? Are there not still collections of documents of which it would be hard to justify
the separate existence? Perhaps;[30] but the problem of the centralisation of documents is
no longer urgent, now that the processes of reproduction have been perfected, especially as
the inconveniences arising from a multitude of depositories are met by the expedient, now in
general use, of allowing the documents to travel: it is now possible for the student to consult,
without expense, in the public library of the city where he resides, documents belonging, say,
to the libraries of St. Petersburg, Brussels, and Florence; we now rarely meet with institutions
like the Archives Nationales at Paris, the British Museum at London, and the Méjanes Library
at Aix-en-Provence, whose statutes absolutely prohibit all lending-out of their contents.[31]

II. It being granted that the majority of historical documents are now preserved in public
institutions (archives, libraries, and museums), Heuristic would be very easy if only good
descriptive catalogues had been drawn up of all the existing collections of documents, if these
catalogues were furnished with indexes, or if general repertories (alphabetical, systematic,
&c.) had been made relating to them; lastly, if there were some place where it was possible
to consult the complete collection of all these catalogues and their indexes. But Heuristic
is still difficult, because these conditions are, unfortunately, still very far from being
adequately realised.

Firstly, there are depositories of documents (archives, libraries, and museums) whose contents
have never been even partially catalogued, so that no one knows what is in them. The depositories
of which we possess complete descriptive catalogues are rare; there are many collections preserved
in celebrated institutions which have only been catalogued in part, and the bulk of which still
remains to be described.[32] In the second place, what a variety there is among existing catalogues!
There are some old ones which do not now correspond to the present classification of documents,
and which cannot be used without reference-tables; there are new ones which are equally based
on obsolete systems, too detailed or too summary; some are printed, others in manuscript, on
registers or slips; some are carefully executed and clear, many are scamped, inadequate, and
provisional. Taking printed catalogues alone, it requires a whole apprenticeship to learn to
distinguish, in this enormous mass of confusion, between what is trustworthy and what is not;
in other words, to make any use of them at all. Lastly, where are the existing catalogues to
be consulted? Most of the great libraries only possess incomplete collections of them; there
is no general guide to them anywhere.

This is a deplorable state of things. In fact, the documents contained in uncatalogued depositories
and collections are practically non-existent for researchers who have no leisure to work through
the whole of their contents for themselves. We have said before: no documents, no history.
But to have no good descriptive catalogues of collections of documents means, in practice,
to be unable to ascertain the existence of documents otherwise than by chance. We infer that
the progress of history depends in great measure on the progress of the general catalogue of
historical documents which is still fragmentary and imperfect. On this point there is general
agreement. Père Bernard de Montfaucon considered his Bibliotheca bibliothecarum manuscriptarum
nova, a collection of library catalogues, as "the most useful and most interesting work he
had produced in his whole life."[33] "In the present state of science," wrote Renan in 1848,[34]
"nothing is wanted more urgently than a critical catalogue of the manuscripts in the different
libraries ... a humble task to all appearance; ... and yet the researches of scholars are hampered
and incomplete pending its definitive completion." "We should have better books on our ancient
literature," says M. P. Meyer,[35] "if the predecessors of M. Delisle [in his capacity of administrator
of the Bibliothèque Nationale at Paris] had applied themselves with equal ardour and diligence
to the cataloguing of the treasures committed to their care."

It will be well to indicate briefly the causes and state the exact consequences of a state
of things which has been deplored as long as scholars have existed, and which is improving,
though slowly. "I assure you," said Renan,[36] "that the few hundred thousand francs a Minister
of Public Instruction might apply to the purpose [of preparing catalogues] would be better
employed than three-quarters of the sum now devoted to literature." It is rare to find a minister,
in France or elsewhere, convinced of this truth, and resolute enough to act accordingly. Besides,
it has not always been true that, in order to obtain good catalogues, it is sufficient, as
well as necessary, to make a pecuniary sacrifice: it is only recently that the best methods
of describing documents have been authoritatively fixed; the task of recruiting competent workers--no
great difficulty nowadays--would have been neither easy nor free from anxiety at an epoch when
competent workers were rarer than they are now. So much for the material obstacles--want of
money and want of men. A cause of another kind has not been without its influence. The functionaries
charged with the administration of depositories of documents have not always displayed the
zeal which they now display for making their collections accessible by means of accurate catalogues.
To prepare a catalogue (in the exact and at the same time summary form which is now used) is
a laborious task, a task without joy and without reward. It has often happened that such a
functionary, living, in virtue of his office, in the midst of documents which he is at liberty
to consult at any moment, and placed in a much more favourable position than the general public
for utilising the collection without the aid of a catalogue, and making discoveries in the
process, has preferred to work for himself rather than for others, and made the tedious construction
of a catalogue a secondary matter compared with his personal researches.

Who are the persons that in our own day have discovered, published, and annotated the greatest
number of documents? The functionaries attached to the depositories of documents. Without a
doubt this circumstance has retarded the progress of the general catalogue of historical documents.
The situation has been this: the persons who were the best able to dispense with catalogues
were precisely the persons whose duty it was to make them.

The imperfection of descriptive catalogues has consequences which deserve our attention. On
the one hand, we can never be sure that we have exhausted all the sources of information; who
knows what may be held in reserve by the uncatalogued collections?[37] On the other hand, in
order to obtain the maximum amount of information, it is necessary to be thoroughly acquainted
with the resources furnished by the existing literature of Heuristic, and to devote a great
deal of time to preliminary researches. In point of fact, every one who proposes to collect
documents for the treatment of a point of history begins by consulting indexes and catalogues.[38]
Novices set about this important operation so slowly, with so little skill, and with so much
effort, as to move more experienced workers to mirth or pity, according to their disposition.
Those who find amusement in watching novices stumble and strain and waste their time in the
labyrinth of catalogues, neglecting those which are valuable, and thoroughly exploring those
which are useless, remember that they also have passed through similar experiences: let every
one have his turn. Those who observe with regret this waste of time and strength consider that,
while inevitable up to a certain point, it serves no good purpose; they ask whether something
might not be done to mitigate the severity of this apprenticeship to Heuristic, which at one
time cost them so dear. Besides, is not research, in the present condition of its material
aids, difficult enough whatever the experience of the researcher? There are scholars and historians
who devote the best part of their powers to material searches. Certain branches of historical
work, relating chiefly to mediæval and modern subjects (the documents of ancient history are
fewer, have been more studied, and are better catalogued than the others), imply not merely
the assiduous use of catalogues, not all furnished with indexes, but also the personal inspection
of the whole contents of immense collections which are either badly catalogued or not catalogued
at all. Experience proves beyond a doubt that the prospect of these long searches, which must
be performed before the more intellectual part of the work can be begun, has deterred, and
continues to deter, men of excellent abilities from undertaking historical work. They are,
in fact, confronted with a dilemma: either they must work on a supply of documents which is
in all probability incomplete, or they must spend themselves in unlimited searches, often fruitless,
the results of which seldom appear worth the time they have cost. It goes against the grain
to spend a great part of one's life in turning over catalogues without indexes, or in passing
under review, one after another, all the items which go to form accumulations of uncatalogued
miscellanea, in order to obtain information (positive or negative) which might have been obtained
easily and instantaneously if the collections had been catalogued and if the catalogues had
been indexed. The most serious consequence of the present imperfection of the material aids
to Heuristic is the discouragement which is sure to be felt by many able men who know their
worth, and have some sense of the due proportion of effort and reward.[39]

If it lay in the nature of things that the search for historical documents, in public depositories,
must necessarily be as laborious as it still is, we might resign ourselves to the inconvenience:
no one thinks of regretting the inevitable expenditure of time and labour which is demanded
by archæological research, whatever the results may prove to be. But the imperfection of the
modern instruments of Heuristic is quite unnecessary. The state of things which existed for
some centuries has now been reformed indifferently; there is no valid reason why it should
not some day be reformed altogether. We are thus led, after treating of the causes and the
effects, to say a few words about the remedies.

The instruments of Heuristic are being continually perfected, before our eyes, in two ways.
Every year witnesses an increase in the number of descriptive catalogues of archives, libraries,
and museums, prepared by the functionaries attached to these institutions. In addition to this,
powerful learned societies employ experts to pass from one depository to another cataloguing
the documents there, in order to pick out all the documents of a particular class, or relating
to a special subject: thus the society of Bollandists caused a general catalogue of hagiographical
documents to be prepared by its emissaries, and the Imperial Academy of Vienna catalogued in
a similar manner the monuments of patristic literature. The society of the Monumenta Germanioe
Historica has for a long time been conducting vast searches of the same kind; and it was by
the same process of exploring the museums and libraries of the whole of Europe that the construction
of the Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum was lately rendered possible. Lastly, several governments
have taken the initiative in sending abroad persons charged to catalogue, on their behalf,
documents in which they are interested: thus England, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United
States, and other governments, grant regular subsidies to agents of theirs occupied in cataloguing
and transcribing, in the great depositories of Europe, the documents which relate to the history
of England, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United States, and the rest.[40] With what rapidity
and with what perfection these useful labours can be conducted, provided that a competent staff,
suitably directed, can be had as well as the money to pay it, is shown by the history of the
general catalogue of the manuscripts in the public libraries of France. This excellent descriptive
catalogue was begun in 1885, and now, in 1897, it extends to nearly fifty volumes, and will
soon be completed. The Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum will have been produced in less than
fifty years. The results obtained by the Bollandists and the Imperial Academy of Vienna are
not less conclusive. Assuredly nothing is now lacking, except funds, to secure the speedy endowment
of historical study with the indispensable instruments of research. The methods employed in
the construction of these instruments are now permanently fixed, and it is an easy matter to
recruit a trained staff. Such a staff must evidently be largely composed of keepers of archives
and professional librarians, but it would also contain unattached workers with a decided vocation
for the construction of catalogues and indexes. Such workers are more numerous than one would
at first be inclined to think. Not that cataloguing is easy: it requires patience, the most
scrupulous attention, and the most varied learning; but many minds are attracted by tasks which,
like this, are at once determinate, capable of being definitely completed, and of manifest
utility. In the large and heterogeneous family of those who labour to promote the progress
of historical study, the makers of descriptive catalogues and indexes form a section to themselves.
When they devote themselves exclusively to their art they acquire by practice, as one might
expect, a high degree of dexterity.

While waiting for the fact to be clearly recognised that the time is opportune for pushing
vigorously in every country the construction of a general catalogue of historical documents,
we may indicate a palliative: it is important that scholars and historians, especially novices,
should be accurately informed of the state of the instruments of research which are at their
disposal, and be regularly apprised of any improvements that from time to time may be made
in them. Experience and accident have been for a long time trusted to supply this information;
but empirical knowledge, besides being costly, as we have already pointed out, is almost always
imperfect. Recently the task has been undertaken of constructing catalogues of catalogues--critical
and systematic lists of all the catalogues in existence. There can be no doubt that few bibliographical
enterprises have possessed, in so great a degree, the character of general utility.

But scholars and historians often need, in respect of documents, information not usually supplied
by descriptive catalogues; they wish, for example, to know whether such and such a document
is known or not, whether it has already been critically dealt with, annotated, or utilised.[41]
This information can only be found in the works of former scholars and historians. In order
to become acquainted with these works, recourse must be had to those "bibliographical repertories,"
properly so called, of all kinds, compiled from very different points of view, which have already
been published. Among the indispensable instruments of Heuristic must thus be reckoned bibliographical
repertories of historical literature, as well as repertories of catalogues of original documents.

To supply the classified list of all those repertories (repertories of catalogues, bibliographical
repertories, properly so called), together with other appropriate information, in order to
save students from mistakes and waste of time, is the object of what we are at liberty to call
the "science of repertories," or "historical bibliography." Professor Bernheim has published
a preliminary sketch[42] of it, which we have endeavoured to expand.[43] The expanded sketch
bears date April 1896: numerous additions, not to speak of revision, would already be necessary,
for the bibliographical apparatus of the historical sciences is being renewed, at the present
time, with astonishing rapidity. A book on the repertories for the use of scholars and historians
is, as a general rule, out of date the day after it has been completed.

III. The knowledge of repertories is useful to all; the preliminary search for documents is
laborious to all; but not in the same degree. Certain parts of history, which have been long
cultivated, now enjoy the advantage of having all their documents described, collected, and
classified in large publications devoted to the purpose, so that, in dealing with these subjects,
the historian can do all that need be done at his desk. The study of local history does not
generally require more than local search. Some important monographs are based on a small number
of documents, all belonging to the same collection, and of such a nature that it would be superfluous
to look for others elsewhere. On the other hand, a humble piece of work, such as a modest edition
of a text of which the ancient copies are not rare, and are to be found scattered in several
libraries of Europe, may have involved inquiries, negotiations, and journeys without end. Since
the majority of the documents of mediæval and modern history are still unedited, or badly edited,
it may be laid down as a general principle that, in order to write a really new chapter of
mediæval or modern history, it is necessary to have long haunted the great depositories of
original documents, and to have, if we may use the expression, worried their catalogues.

It is thus incumbent on every one to choose the subject of his labours with the greatest care,
instead of leaving it to be determined by pure chance. There are some subjects which, in the
present state of the instruments of research, cannot be treated except at the cost of enormous
searches in which life and intellect are consumed without profit. These subjects are not necessarily
more interesting than others, and some day, perhaps to-morrow, improvements in the aids to
research will make them easily manageable. It is necessary for the student consciously and
deliberately to make his choice between different historical subjects depend on the existence
or non-existence of particular catalogues of documents and bibliographical repertories; on
his relative inclination for desk work on the one hand, and the labour of exploring depositories
on the other; even on the facilities he has for making use of particular collections. "Is it
possible to do work in the provinces?" Renan asked at the congress of learned societies at
the Sorbonne in 1889; and gave a very good answer to his own question: "At least half one's
scientific work can be done at one's own desk ... Take comparative philology, for example:
with an initial outlay of some thousands of francs, and subscriptions to three or four special
publications, a student would command all the tools of his trade ... The same applies to universal
philosophy ... Many branches of study can thus be prosecuted quite privately, and in the closest
retirement."[44] Doubtless, but there are "rarities, specialities, researches which require
the aid of powerful machinery." One half of historical work may now be done in private, with
limited resources, but only half; the other half still presupposes the employment of such resources,
in the way of repertories and documents, as can only be found in the great centres of study;
often, indeed, it is necessary to visit several of these centres in succession. In short, the
case stands with history much as it does with geography: in respect of some portions of the
globe, we possess documents published in manageable form sufficiently complete and sufficiently
well classified to enable us to reason about them to good purpose without leaving our fireside;
while in the case of an unexplored or badly explored region, the slightest monograph implies
a considerable expenditure of time and physical strength. It is dangerous to choose a subject
of study, as many do, without having first realised the nature and extent of the preliminary
researches which it demands; there are instances of men struggling for years with such researches,
who might have been occupied to better advantage in work of another character. As precautions
against this danger, which is the more formidable to novices the more active and zealous they
are, an examination of the present conditions of Heuristic in general, and positive notions
of Historical Bibliography, are certainly to be warmly recommended.

CHAPTER II

"AUXILIARY SCIENCES"

Let us suppose that the preliminary searches, treated of in the preceding chapter, have been
made methodically and successfully; the greater part, if not the whole, of the documents bearing
on a given subject have been discovered and made available. Of two things one: either these
documents have been already subjected to critical elaboration, or they are in the condition
of raw material; this is a point which must be settled by "bibliographical" researches, which
also, as we have already observed, form part of the inquiries which precede the logical part
of the work. In the first case, where the documents have already gone through a process of
elaboration, it is necessary to be in a position to verify the accuracy of the critical work;
in the second case, where the documents are still raw material, the student must do the critical
work himself. In both cases certain antecedent and auxiliary knowledge of a positive kind,
Vor-und Hülfskenntnisse, as they are called, are every whit as indispensable as the habit of
accurate reasoning; for if, in the course of critical work, it is possible to go wrong through
reasoning badly, it is also possible to go wrong out of pure ignorance. The profession of a
scholar or historian is, moreover, similar in this respect to all other professions; it is
impossible to follow it without possessing a certain equipment of technical notions, whose
absence neither natural aptitude nor even method can make good. In what, then, does the technical
apprenticeship of the scholar or the historian consist? Or, to employ language which, though
inappropriate, as we shall endeavour to show, is in more common use: what, in addition to the
knowledge of repertories, are the "auxiliary sciences" of history?

Daunou, in his Cours d'études historiques,[45] has proposed a question of the same kind. "What
studies," says he, "will the intending historian need to have gone through, what kinds of knowledge
ought he to have acquired, in order to begin writing a work with any hope of success?" Before
him, Mably, in his Traité de l'étude de l'histoire, had also recognised that "there are preparatory
studies with which no historian can dispense." But on this subject Mably and Daunou entertained
views which nowadays seem singular enough. It is instructive to mark the exact distance which
separates their point of view from ours. "First of all," said Mably, "study the law of nature,
public law, moral and political science." Daunou, a man of great judgment, permanent secretary
to the Academy of Inscriptions and Belles-Lettres, writing about 1820, divides the studies
which, in his opinion, constitute "the apprenticeship of the historian," into three classes--literary,
philosophical, historical. On the "literary" studies he expatiates at great length: to begin
with, the historian must "have read with attention the great models." Which great models? Daunou
"does not hesitate" to place in the front rank "the masterpieces of epic poetry;" for "it is
the poets who have created the art of narrative, and whoever has not learnt it from them cannot
have more than an imperfect knowledge of it." He further recommends the reading of modern novels;
"they will teach the method of giving an artistic pose to persons and events, of distributing
details, of skilfully carrying on the thread of the narrative, of interrupting it, of resuming
it, of sustaining the attention and provoking the curiosity of the reader." Finally, good historical
works should be read: "Herodotus, Thucydides, Xenophon, Polybius, and Plutarch among the Greeks;
Cæsar, Sallust, Livy, and Tacitus among the Latins; and among the moderns, Macchiavelli, Guicciardini,
Giannone, Hume, Robertson, Gibbon, the Cardinal de Retz, Vertot, Voltaire, Raynal, and Rulhière.
Not that I would exclude the others, but these will suffice to provide all the styles which
are suitable for history; for a great diversity of form is to be met with in the works of these
writers." In the second place come philosophical studies; a thorough mastery of "ideology,
morals, and politics" is required. "As to the works from which knowledge of this kind is to
be obtained, Daguesseau has instanced Aristotle, Cicero, Grotius: I should add the best ancient
and modern moralists, treatises on political economy published since the middle of the last
century, the writings on political science in general, and on its details and application,
of Macchiavelli, Bodin, Locke, Montesquieu, Rousseau, Mably, and the most enlightened of their
disciples and commentators." In the third place, before writing history, "it is evidently necessary
to know it." "A writer will not give the world new information on a subject like this unless
he begins by making himself master of what is already known of it." The future historian has
already made the acquaintance of the best historical works, and studied them as models of style;
"it will be to his advantage to read them a second time, but endeavouring more particularly
to grasp all the facts which they contain, and to let them make so deep an impression on his
mind that they may be permanently fixed in his memory."

These are the "positive" notions which, eighty years ago, were considered indispensable to
the general historian. At the same time there was a confused idea that "in order to acquire
a profound knowledge of particular subjects" there were yet other useful branches of study.
"The subjects of which historians treat," says Daunou, "the details which they occasionally
light upon, require very extensive and varied attainments." He goes on to particularise, observe
in what terms: "very often a knowledge of several languages, sometimes too some notion of physics
and mathematics." And he adds: "On these subjects, however, the general education which we
may assume to be common to all men of letters is sufficient for the writer who devotes himself
to historical composition...."

All the authors who, like Daunou, have attempted to enumerate the preliminary attainments,
as well as the moral or intellectual aptitudes, necessary for "writing history," have either
fallen into commonplace or pitched their requirements ridiculously high. According to Freeman,
the historian ought to know everything--philosophy, law, finance, ethnography, geography, anthropology,
natural science, and what not; is not an historian, in point of fact, likely enough in the
course of his study of the past to meet with questions of philosophy, law, finance, and the
rest of the series? And if financial science, for example, is necessary to a writer who treats
of contemporary finance, is it less so to the writer who claims to express an opinion on the
financial questions of the past? "The historian," Freeman declares, "may have incidentally
to deal with any subject whatever, and the more branches of knowledge he is master of, the
better prepared he is for his own work." True, all branches of human knowledge are not equally
useful; some of them are only serviceable on rare occasions, and accidentally: "We could hardly
make it even a counsel of perfection to the historian to make himself an accomplished chemist,
on the chance of an occasion in which chemistry might be of use to him in his study;" but other
special subjects are more closely related to history: "for example, geology and a whole group
of sciences which have a close connection with geology.... The historian will clearly do his
own regular work better for being master of them...."[46] The question has also been asked
whether "history is one of those studies anciently called umbratiles, for which all that is
wanted is a quiet mind and habits of industry," or whether it is a good thing for the historian
to have mingled in the turmoil of active life, and to have helped to make the history of his
own time before sitting down to write that of the past. Indeed, what questions have not been
asked? Floods of ink have been poured out over these uninteresting and unanswerable questions,
the long and fruitless debating of which has done not a little to discredit works on methodology.
Our opinion is that nothing relevant can be added to the dictates of mere common sense on the
subject of the apprenticeship to the "art of writing history," unless perhaps that this apprenticeship
should consist, above everything, in the study, hitherto so generally neglected, of the principles
of historical method.

Besides, it is not the "literary historian," the moralising and quill-driving "historians,"
as conceived by Daunou and his school, that we have had in view; we are here only concerned
with those scholars and historians who intend to deal with documents in order to facilitate
or actually perform the scientific work of history. These stand in need of a technical apprenticeship.
What meaning are we to attach to this term?

Let us suppose we have before us a written document. What use can we make of it if we cannot
read it? Up to the time of François Champollion, Egyptian documents, being written in hieroglyphics,
were, without metaphor, a dead-letter. It will be readily admitted that in order to deal with
ancient Assyrian history it is necessary to have learnt to decipher cuneiform inscriptions.
Similarly, whoever desires to do original work from the sources, in ancient or mediæval history,
will, if he is prudent, learn to decipher inscriptions and manuscripts. We thus see why Greek
and Latin epigraphy and mediæval palæography--that is, the sum of the various kinds of knowledge
required for the deciphering of ancient and mediæval manuscripts and inscriptions--are considered
as "auxiliary sciences" to history, or rather, the historical study of antiquity and the middle
ages. It is evident that mediæval Latin palæography forms part of the necessary outfit of the
mediævalist, just as the palæography of hieroglyphics is essential to the Egyptologist. There
is, however, a difference to be observed. No one will ever think of devoting himself to Egyptology
without having first studied the appropriate palæography. On the other hand, it is not very
rare for a man to undertake the study of local documents of the middle ages without having
learnt to date their forms approximately, and to decipher their abbreviations correctly. The
resemblance which most mediæval writing bears to modern writing is sufficiently close to foster
the illusion that ingenuity and practice will be enough to carry him through. This illusion
is dangerous. Scholars who have received no regular palæographical initiation can almost always
be recognised by the gross errors which they commit from time to time in deciphering--errors
which are sometimes enough to completely ruin the subsequent operations of criticism and interpretation.
As for the self-taught experts who acquire their skill by dint of practice, the orthodox palæographic
initiation which they have missed would at least have saved them much groping in the dark,
long hours of labour, and many a disappointment.

Suppose a document has been deciphered. How is it to be turned to account, unless it be first
understood? Inscriptions in Etruscan and the ancient language of Cambodia have been read, but
no one understands them. As long as this is the case they must remain useless. It is clear
that in order to deal with Greek history it is necessary to consult documents in the Greek
language, and therefore necessary to know Greek. Rank truism, the reader will say. Yes, but
many proceed as if it had never occurred to them. Young students attack ancient history with
only a superficial tincture of Greek and Latin. Many who have never studied mediæval French
and Latin think they know them because they understand classical Latin and modern French, and
they attempt the interpretation of texts whose literal meaning escapes them, or appears to
be obscure when in reality perfectly plain. Innumerable historical errors owe their origin
to false or inexact interpretations of quite straightforward texts, perpetrated by men who
were insufficiently acquainted with the grammar, the vocabulary, or the niceties of ancient
languages. Solid philological study ought logically to precede historical research in every
instance where the documents to be employed are not to be had in a modern language, and in
a form in which they can be easily understood.

Suppose a document is intelligible. It would not be legitimate to take it into consideration
without having verified its authenticity, if its authenticity has not been already settled
beyond a doubt. Now in order to verify the authenticity or ascertain the origin of a document
two things are required--reasoning power and knowledge. In other words, it is necessary to
reason from certain positive data which represent the condensed results of previous research,
which cannot be improvised, and must, therefore, be learnt. To distinguish a genuine from a
spurious charter would, in fact, be often an impossible task for the best trained logician,
if he were unacquainted with the practice of such and such a chancery, at such and such a date,
or with the features common to all the admittedly genuine charters of a particular class. He
would be obliged to do what the first scholars did--ascertain for himself, by the comparison
of a great number of similar documents, what features distinguish the admittedly genuine documents
from the others, before allowing himself to pronounce judgment in any special instance. Will
not his task be enormously simplified if there is in existence a body of doctrine, a treasury
of accumulated observations, a system of results obtained by workers who have already made,
repeated, and checked the minute comparisons he would otherwise have been obliged to make for
himself? This body of doctrines, observations, and results, calculated to assist the criticism
of diplomas and charters, does exist; it is called Diplomatic. We shall, therefore, assign
to Diplomatic, along with Epigraphy, Palæography, and Philology, the character of a subject
auxiliary to historical research.

Epigraphy and Palæography, Philology, and Diplomatic with its adjuncts (technical Chronology
and Sphragistic) are not the only subjects of study which subserve historical research. It
would be extremely injudicious to undertake to deal critically with literary documents on which
no critical work has as yet been done without making oneself familiar with the results obtained
by those who have already dealt critically with documents of the same class: the sum of these
results forms a department to itself, which has a name--the History of Literature.[47] The
critical treatment of illustrative documents, such as the productions of architecture, sculpture,
and painting, objects of all kinds (arms, dress, utensils, coins, medals, armorial bearings,
and so forth), presupposes a thorough acquaintance with the rules and observations which constitute
Archæology properly so called and its detached branches--Numismatic and Heraldry.

We are now in a position to examine to some purpose the hazy notion expressed by the phrase,
"the sciences auxiliary to history." We also read of "ancillary sciences," and, in French,
"sciences satellites." None of these expressions is really satisfactory.

First of all, the so-called "auxiliary sciences" are not all of them sciences. Diplomatic,
for example, and the History of Literature are only systematised accumulations of facts, acquired
by criticism, which are of a nature to facilitate the application of critical methods to documents
hitherto untouched. On the other hand, Philology is an organised science, and has its own laws.

In the second place, among the branches of knowledge auxiliary--properly speaking, not to history,
but to historical research--we must distinguish between those which every worker in the field
ought to master, and those in respect of which he needs only to know where to look when he
has occasion to make use of them; between knowledge which ought to become part of a man's self,
and information which he may be content to possess only in potentiality. A mediævalist should
know how to read and understand mediæval texts; he would gain no advantage by accumulating
in his memory the mass of particular facts pertaining to the History of Literature and Diplomatic
which are to be found, in their proper place, in well-constructed works of reference.

Lastly, there are no branches of knowledge which are auxiliary to History (or even historical
research) in general--that is, which are useful to all students irrespectively of the particular
part of history on which they are engaged.[48] It appears, then, that there is no general answer
possible to the question raised at the beginning of this chapter: in what should the technical
apprenticeship of the scholar or historian consist? In what does it consist? That depends.
It depends on the part of history he proposes to study. A knowledge of palæography is quite
useless for the purpose of investigating the history of the French Revolution, and a knowledge
of Greek is equally useless for the treatment of a question in mediæval French history.[49]
But we may go so far as to say that the preliminary outfit of every one who wishes to do original
work in history should consist (in addition to the "common education," that is, general culture,
of which Daunou writes) in the knowledge calculated to aid in the discovery, the understanding,
and the criticism of documents. The exact nature of this knowledge varies from case to case
according as the student specialises in one or another part of universal history. The technical
apprenticeship is relatively short and easy for those who occupy themselves with modern or
contemporary history, long and laborious for those who occupy themselves with ancient and mediæval
history.

This reform of the historian's technical apprenticeship which consists in substituting the
acquisition of positive knowledge, truly auxiliary to historical research, for the study of
the "great models," literary and philosophical, is of quite recent date. In France, for the
greater part of the present century, students of history received none but a literary education,
after Daunou's pattern. Almost all of them were contented with such a preparation, and did
not look beyond it; some few perceived and regretted, when it was too late for a remedy, the
insufficiency of their early training; with a few illustrious exceptions, the best of them
never rose to be more than distinguished men of letters, incapable of scientific work. There
was at that time no organisation for teaching the "auxiliary sciences" and the technique of
research except in the case of French mediæval history, and that in a special school, the École
des chartes. This simple fact, moreover, secured for this school during a period of fifty years
a marked superiority over all the other French (or even foreign) institutions of higher education;
excellent workers were there trained who contributed many new results, while elsewhere people
were idly discussing problems.[50] To-day it is still at the École des chartes that the mediævalist
has the opportunity of going through his technical apprenticeship in the best and most complete
manner, thanks to the combined and progressive three-years courses of Romance philology, palæography,
archæology, historiography, and mediæval law. But the "auxiliary sciences" are now taught everywhere
more or less adequately; they have been introduced into the university curricula. On the other
hand, students' handbooks of epigraphy, palæography, diplomatic, and so forth, have multiplied
during the last twenty-five years. Twenty-five years ago it would have been vain to look for
a good book which should supply the want of oral instruction on these subjects; since the establishment
of professorships "manuals" have appeared[51] which would almost make them superfluous were
it not that oral instruction, based on practical exercises, has here an exceptional value.
Whether a student does or does not enjoy the advantage of a regular drilling in an institution
for higher education, he has henceforth no excuse for remaining in ignorance of those things
which he ought to know before entering upon historical work. There is, in fact, less of this
kind of neglect than there used to be. On this head, the success of the above-mentioned "manuals,"
with their rapid succession of editions, is very significant.[52]

Here, then, we have the future historian armed with the preliminary knowledge, the neglect
of which would have condemned him to powerlessness or to continual mistakes. We suppose him
protected from the errors without number which have their origin in an imperfect knowledge
of the writing and the language of documents, in ignorance of previous work and the results
obtained by textual criticism; he has an irreproachable cognitio cogniti et cognoscendi. A
very optimistic supposition, by the way, as we are bound to admit. We know but too well that
to have gone through a regular course of "auxiliary sciences," or to have read attentively
the best treatises on bibliography, palæography, philology, and so on, or even to have acquired
some personal experience by practical exercises, is not enough to ensure that a man shall always
be well informed, still less to make him infallible. In the first place, those who have for
a long time studied documents of a given class or of a given period possess, in regard to these,
incommunicable knowledge in virtue of which they are able to deal better than others with new
documents which they may meet with of the same class or period; nothing can replace the "special
erudition" which is the specialist's reward for hard work.[53] And secondly, specialists themselves
make mistakes: palæographers must be perpetually on their guard not to decipher falsely; is
there a philologist who has not some faults of construing on his conscience? Scholars usually
well informed have printed as unedited texts which had already been published, and have neglected
documents it was their business to know. Scholars spend their lives in incessantly perfecting
their "auxiliary" knowledge, which they rightly regard as never perfect. But all this does
not prevent us from maintaining our hypothesis. Only let it be understood that in practice
we do not postpone work upon documents till we shall have gained a serene and absolute mastery
over all the "auxiliary branches of knowledge:" we should never dare to begin.

It remains to know how to treat documents supposing one has successfully passed through the
preliminary apprenticeship.

Events can be empirically known in two ways only: by direct observation while they are in progress;
and indirectly, by the study of the traces which they leave behind them. Take an earthquake,
for example. I have a direct knowledge of it if I am present when the phenomenon occurs; an
indirect knowledge if, without having been thus present, I observe its physical effects (crevices,
ruins), or if, after these effects have disappeared, I read a description written by some one
who has himself witnessed the phenomenon or its effects. Now, the peculiarity of "historical
facts"[55] is this, that they are only known indirectly by the help of their traces. Historical
knowledge is essentially indirect knowledge. The methods of historical science ought, therefore,
to be radically different from those of the direct sciences; that is to say, of all the other
sciences, except geology, which are founded on direct observation. Historical science, whatever
may be said,[56] is not a science of observation at all.

The facts of the past are only known to us by the traces of them which have been preserved.
These traces, it is true, are directly observed by the historian, but, after that, he has nothing
more to observe; what remains is the work of reasoning, in which he endeavours to infer, with
the greatest possible exactness, the facts from the traces. The document is his starting-point,
the fact his goal.[57] Between this starting-point and this goal he has to pass through a complicated
series of inferences, closely interwoven with each other, in which there are innumerable chances
of error; while the least error, whether committed at the beginning, middle, or end of the
work, may vitiate all his conclusions. The "historical," or indirect, method is thus obviously
inferior to the method of direct observation; but historians have no choice: it is the only
method of arriving at past facts, and we shall see later on[58] how, in spite of these disadvantages,
it is possible for this method to lead to scientific knowledge.

The detailed analysis of the reasonings which lead from the inspection of documents to the
knowledge of facts is one of the chief parts of Historical Methodology. It is the domain of
criticism. The seven following chapters will be devoted to it. We shall endeavour, first of
all, to give a very summary sketch of the general lines and main divisions of the subject.

I. We may distinguish two species of documents. Sometimes the past event has left a material
trace (a monument, a fabricated article). Sometimes, and more commonly, the trace is of the
psychological order--a written description or narrative. The first case is much simpler than
the second. For there is a fixed relation between certain physical appearances and the causes
which produced them; and this relation, governed by physical laws, is known to us.[59] But
a psychological trace, on the other hand, is purely symbolic: it is not the fact itself; it
is not even the immediate impression made by the fact upon the witness's mind, but only a conventional
symbol of that impression. Written documents, then, are not, as material documents are, valuable
by themselves; they are only valuable as signs of psychological operations, which are often
complicated and hard to unravel. The immense majority of the documents which furnish the historian
with starting-points for his reasonings are nothing else than traces of psychological operations.

This granted, in order to conclude from a written document to the fact which was its remote
cause--that is, in order to ascertain the relation which connects the document with the fact--it
is necessary to reproduce the whole series of intermediate causes which have given rise to
the document. It is necessary to revive in imagination the whole of that series of acts performed
by the author of the document which begins with the fact observed by him and ends with the
manuscript (or printed volume), in order to arrive at the original event. Such is the aim and
such the process of critical analysis.[60]

First of all we observe the document. Is it now in the same state as when it was produced?
Has it deteriorated since? We endeavour to find out how it was made in order to restore it,
if need be, to its original form, and to ascertain its origin. The first group of preliminary
investigations, bearing upon the writing, the language, the form, the source, constitutes the
special domain of EXTERNAL CRITICISM, or critical scholarship. Next comes INTERNAL CRITICISM:
it endeavours, by the help of analogies mostly borrowed from general psychology, to reproduce
the mental states through which the author of the document passed. Knowing what the author
of the document has said, we ask (1) What did he mean? (2) Did he believe what he said? (3)
Was he justified in believing whatever he did believe? This last step brings the document to
a point where it resembles the data of the objective sciences: it becomes an observation; it
only remains to treat it by the methods of the objective sciences. Every document is valuable
precisely to the extent to which, by the study of its origin, it has been reduced to a well-made
observation.

II. Two conclusions may be drawn from what we have just said: the extreme complexity and the
absolute necessity of Historical Criticism.

Compared with other students the historian is in a very disagreeable situation. It is not merely
that he cannot, as the chemist does, observe his facts directly; it very rarely happens that
the documents which he is obliged to use represent precise observations. He has at his disposal
none of those systematic records of observations which, in the established sciences, can and
do replace direct observation. He is in the situation of a chemist who should know a series
of experiments only from the report of his laboratory-boy. The historian is compelled to turn
to account rough and ready reports, such as no man of science would be content with.[61] All
the more necessary are the precautions to be taken in utilising these documents, the only materials
of historical science. It is evidently most important to eliminate those which are worthless,
and to ascertain the amount of correct observation represented by those which are left.

All the more necessary, too, are cautions on this subject, because the natural inclination
of the human mind is to take no precautions at all, and to treat these matters, which really
demand the utmost obtainable precision, with careless laxity. It is true that every one admits
the utility of criticism in theory; but this is just one of those principles which are more
easily admitted than put into practice. Many centuries and whole eras of brilliant civilisation
had to pass away before the first dawn of criticism was visible among the most intellectual
peoples in the world. Neither the orientals nor the middle ages ever formed a definite conception
of it.[62] Up to our own day there have been enlightened men who, in employing documents for
the purpose of writing history, have neglected the most elementary precautions, and unconsciously
assumed false generalisations. Even now most young students would, if left to themselves, fall
into the old errors. For criticism is antagonistic to the normal bent of the mind. The spontaneous
tendency of man is to yield assent to affirmations, and to reproduce them, without even clearly
distinguishing them from the results of his own observation. In every-day life do we not accept
indiscriminately, without any kind of verification, hearsay reports, anonymous and unguaranteed
statements, "documents" of indifferent or inferior authority? It takes a special reason to
induce us to take the trouble to examine into the origin and value of a document on the history
of yesterday; otherwise, if there is no outrageous improbability in it, and as long as it is
not contradicted, we swallow it whole, we pin our faith to it, we hawk it about, and, if need
be, embellish it in the process. Every candid man must admit that it requires a violent effort
to shake off ignavia critica, that common form of intellectual sloth, that this effort must
be continually repeated, and is often accompanied by real pain.

The natural instinct of a man in the water is to do precisely that which will infallibly cause
him to be drowned; learning to swim means acquiring the habit of suppressing spontaneous movements
and performing others instead. Similarly, criticism is not a natural habit; it must be inculcated,
and only becomes organic by dint of continued practice.

Historical work is, then, pre-eminently critical; whoever enters upon it without having first
been put on his guard against his instinct is sure to be drowned in it. In order to appreciate
the danger it is well to examine one's conscience and analyse the causes of that ignavia which
must be fought against till it is replaced by a critical attitude of mind.[63] It is also very
salutary to familiarise oneself with the principles of historical method, and to analyse the
theory of them, one by one, as we propose to do in the present volume. "History, like every
other study, is chiefly subject to errors of fact arising from inattention, but it is more
exposed than any other study to errors due to that mental confusion which produces incomplete
analyses and fallacious reasonings.... Historians would advance fewer affirmations without
proof if they had to analyse each one of their affirmations; they would commit themselves to
fewer false principles if they made it a rule to formulate all their principles; they would
be guilty of fewer fallacies if they were obliged to set out all their arguments in logical
form."[64]

SECTION I.--EXTERNAL CRITICISM

CHAPTER II

TEXTUAL CRITICISM

Let us suppose that an author of our own day has written a book: he sends his manuscript to
the printer; with his own hand he corrects the proofs, and marks them "Press." A book which
is printed under these conditions comes into our hands in what is, for a document, a very good
condition. Whoever the author may be, and whatever his sentiments and intentions, we can be
certain--and this is the only point that concerns us at present--that we have before us a fairly
accurate reproduction of the text which he wrote. We are obliged to say "fairly accurate,"
for if the author has corrected his proofs badly, or if the printers have not paid proper attention
to his corrections, the reproduction of the original text is imperfect, even in this specially
favourable case. Printers not unfrequently make a man say something which he never meant to
say, and which he does not notice till too late.

Sometimes it is required to reproduce a work the author of which is dead, and the autograph
manuscript of which cannot be sent to the printer. This was the case with the Mémoires d'outre-tombe
of Chateaubriand, for example; it is of daily occurrence in regard to the familiar correspondence
of well-known persons which is printed in haste to satisfy the curiosity of the public, and
of which the original manuscript is very fragile. First the text is copied; it is then set
up by the compositor from the copy, which comes to the same thing as copying it again; this
second copy is lastly, or ought to be, collated (in the proofs) with the first copy, or, better
still, with the original, by some one who takes the place of the deceased author. The guarantees
of accuracy are fewer in this case than in the first; for between the original and the ultimate
reproduction there is one intermediary the more (the manuscript copy), and it may be that the
original is hard for anybody but the author to decipher. And, in fact, the text of memoirs
and posthumous correspondence is often disfigured by errors of transcription and punctuation
occurring in editions which at first sight give the impression of having been carefully executed.[65]

Turning now to ancient documents, let us ask in what state they have been preserved. In nearly
every case the originals have been lost, and we have nothing but copies. Have these copies
been made directly from the originals? No; they are copies of copies. The scribes who executed
them were not by any means all of them capable and conscientious men; they often transcribed
texts which they did not understand at all, or which they understood incorrectly, and it was
not always the fashion, as it was in the time of the Carlovingian Renaissance, to compare the
copies with the originals.[66]

If our printed books, after the successive revisions of author and printer's reader, are still
but imperfect reproductions, it is only to be expected that ancient documents, copied and recopied
as they have been for centuries with very little care, and exposed at every fresh transcription
to new risk of alteration, should have reached us full of inaccuracies.

There is thus an obvious precaution to be taken. Before using a document we must find out whether
its text is "sound"--that is, in as close agreement as possible with the original manuscript
of the author; and when the text is "corrupt" we must emend it. In using a text which has been
corrupted in transmission, we run the risk of attributing to the author what really comes from
the copyists. There are actual cases of theories which were based on passages falsified in
transmission, and which collapsed as soon as the true readings were discovered or restored.
Printers' errors and mistakes in copying are not always innocuous or merely diverting; they
are sometimes insidious and capable of misleading the reader.[67]

One would naturally suppose that historians of repute would always make it a rule to procure
"sound" texts, properly emended and restored, of the texts they have to consult. That is a
mistake. For a long time historians simply used the texts which they had within easy reach,
without verifying their accuracy. And, what is more, the very scholars whose business it is
to edit texts did not discover the art of restoring them all at once; not so very long ago,
documents were commonly edited from the first copies, good or bad, that came to hand, combined
and corrected at random. Editions of ancient texts are nowadays mostly "critical;" but it is
not yet thirty years since the publication of the first "critical editions" of the great works
of the middle ages, and the critical text of some ancient classics (Pausanias, for example)
has still to be constructed.

Not all historical documents have as yet been published in a form calculated to give historians
the security they need, and some historians still act as if they had not realised that an unsettled
text, as such, requires cautious handling. Still, considerable progress has been made. From
the experience accumulated by several generations of scholars there has been evolved a recognised
method of purifying and restoring texts. No part of historical method has a more solid foundation,
or is more generally known. It is clearly explained in several works of popular philology.[68]
For this reason we shall here be content to give a general view of its essential principles,
and to indicate its results.

I. We will suppose a document has not been edited in conformity with critical rules. How are
we to proceed in order to construct the best possible text? Three cases present themselves.

(a) The most simple case is that in which we possess the original, the author's autograph itself.
There is then nothing to do but to reproduce the text of it with absolute fidelity.[69] Theoretically
nothing can be easier; in practice this elementary operation demands a sustained attention
of which not every one is capable. If any one doubts it, let him try. Copyists who never make
mistakes and never allow their attention to be distracted are rare even among scholars.

(b) Second case. The original has been lost; only a single copy of it is known. It is necessary
to be cautious, for the probability is that this copy contains errors.

Texts degenerate in accordance with certain laws. A great deal of pains has been taken to discover
and classify the causes and the ordinary forms of the differences which are observed between
originals and copies; and hence rules have been deduced which may be applied to the conjectural
restoration of those passages in a unique copy of a lost original which are certainly corrupt
(because unintelligible), or are so in all probability.

Alterations of an original occurring in a copy--"traditional variants," as they are called--are
due either to fraud or to error. Some copyists have deliberately modified or suppressed passages.[70]
Nearly all copyists have committed errors of judgment or accidental errors. Errors of judgment
when half-educated and not wholly intelligent copyists have thought it their duty to correct
passages and words in the original which they could not understand.[71] Accidental errors when
they misread while copying, or misheard while writing from dictation, or when they involuntarily
made slips of the pen.

Modifications arising from fraud or errors of judgment are often very difficult to rectify,
or even to discover. Some accidental errors (the omission of several lines, for example) are
irreparable in the case we are considering, that of a unique copy. But most accidental errors
can be detected by any one who knows the ordinary forms: confusions of sense, letters, and
words, transpositions of words, letters, and syllables, dittography (unmeaning repetition of
letters or syllables), haplography (syllables or words written once only where they should
have been written twice), false divisions between words, badly punctuated sentences, and other
mistakes of the same kind. Errors of these various types have been made by the scribes of every
country and every age, irrespectively of the handwriting and language of the originals. But
some confusions of letters occur frequently in copies of uncial originals, and others in copies
of minuscule originals. Confusions of sense and of words are explained by analogies of vocabulary
or pronunciation, which naturally vary from language to language and from epoch to epoch. The
general theory of conjectural emendation reduces to the sketch we have just given; there is
no general apprenticeship to the art. What a man learns is not to restore any text that may
be put before him, but Greek texts, Latin texts, French texts, and so on, as the case may be;
for the conjectural emendation of a text presupposes, besides general notions on the processes
by which texts degenerate, a profound knowledge of (1) a special language; (2) a special handwriting;
(3) the confusions (of sense, letters, and words) which were habitual to those who copied texts
of that language written in that style of handwriting. To aid in the apprenticeship to the
conjectural emendation of Greek and Latin texts, tabulated lists (alphabetical and systematic)
of various readings, frequent confusions, and probable corrections, have been drawn up.[72]
It is true that they cannot take the place of practical work, done under the guidance of experts,
but they are of very great use to the experts themselves.[73]

It would be easy to give a list of happy emendations. The most satisfactory are those whose
correctness is obvious palæographically, as is the case with the classical emendation by Madvig
of the text of Seneca's Letters (89, 4). The old reading was: "Philosophia unde dicta sit,
apparet; ipso enim nomine fatetur. Quidam et sapientiam ita quidam finierunt, ut dicerent divinorum
et humanorum sapientiam ..."--which does not make sense. It used to be supposed that words
had dropped out between ita and quidam. Madvig pictured to himself the text of the lost archetype,
which was written in capitals, and in which, as was usual before the eighth century, the words
were not separated (scriptio continua), nor the sentences punctuated; he asked himself whether
the copyist, with such an archetype before him, had not divided the words at random, and he
had no difficulty in reading: "...ipso enim nomine fatetur quid amet. Sapientiam ita quidam
finierunt...." Blass, Reinach, and Lindsay, in the works referred to in the note, mention several
other masterly and elegant emendations. Nor have the Hellenists and Latinists any monopoly;
equally brilliant emendations might be culled from the works of Orientalists, Romancists, and
Germanists, now that texts of Oriental, Romance, and Germanic languages have been subjected
to verbal criticism. We have already stated that scholarly corrections are possible even in
the text of quite modern documents, reproduced typographically under the most favourable conditions.

Perhaps no one, in our day, has equalled Madvig in the art of conjectural emendation. But Madvig
himself had no high opinion of the work of modern scholarship. He thought that the humanists
of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries were, in this respect, better trained than modern
scholars. The conjectural emendation of Greek and Latin texts is, in fact, a branch of sport,
success in which is proportionate not only to a man's ingenuity and palæographical instinct,
but also to the correctness, rapidity, and delicacy of his appreciation of the niceties of
the classical languages. Now, the early scholars were undoubtedly too bold, but they were more
intimately familiar with the classical languages than our modern scholars are.

However that may be, there can be no doubt that numerous texts which have been preserved, in
corrupt form, in unique copies, have resisted, and will continue to resist, the efforts of
criticism. Very often criticism ascertains the fact of the text having been altered, states
what the sense requires, and then prudently stops, every trace of the original reading having
been obscured by a confused tangle of successive corrections and errors which it is hopeless
to attempt to unravel. The scholars who devote themselves to the fascinating pursuit of conjectural
criticism are liable, in their ardour, to suspect perfectly innocent readings, and, in desperate
passages, to propose adventurous hypotheses. They are well aware of this, and therefore make
it a rule to draw a very clear distinction, in their editions, between readings found in manuscripts
and their own restorations of the text.

(c) Third case. We possess several copies, which differ from each other, of a document whose
original is lost. Here modern scholars have a marked advantage over their predecessors: besides
being better informed, they set about the comparison of copies more methodically. The object
is, as in the preceding case, to reconstruct the archetype as exactly as possible.

The scholars of earlier days had to struggle, as novices have to struggle now, in a case of
this kind, against a very natural and a very reprehensible impulse--to use the first copy that
comes to hand, whatever its character may happen to be. The second impulse is not much better--to
use the oldest copy out of several of different date. In theory, and very often in practice,
the relative age of the copies is of no importance; a sixteenth-century manuscript which reproduces
a good lost copy of the eleventh century is much more valuable than a faulty and retouched
copy made in the twelfth or thirteenth century. The third impulse is still far from being good;
it is to count the attested readings and decide by the majority. Suppose there are twenty copies
of a text; the reading A is attested eighteen times, the reading B twice. To make this a reason
for choosing A is to make the gratuitous assumption that all the manuscripts have the same
authority. This is an error of judgment; for if seventeen of the eighteen manuscripts which
give the reading A have been copied from the eighteenth, the reading A is in reality attested
only once; and the only question is whether it is intrinsically better or worse than the reading B.

It has been recognised that the only rational procedure is to begin by determining in what
relation the copies stand to each other. For this purpose we adopt as our starting-point the
incontrovertible axiom that all the copies which contain the same mistakes in the same passages
must have been either copied from each other or all derived from a copy containing those mistakes.
It is inconceivable that several copyists, independently reproducing an original free from
errors, should all introduce exactly the same errors; identity of errors attests community
of origin. We shall cast aside without scruple all the copies derived from a single manuscript
which has been preserved. Evidently they can have no value beyond what is possessed by their
common source; if they differ from it, it can only be in virtue of new errors; it would be
waste of time to study their variations. Having eliminated these, we have before us none but
independent copies, which have been made directly from the archetype, or secondary copies whose
source (a copy taken directly from the archetype) has been lost. In order to group the secondary
copies into families, each of which shall represent what is substantially the same tradition,
we again have recourse to the comparison of errors. By this method we can generally draw up
without too much trouble a complete genealogical table (stemma codicum) of the preserved copies,
which will bring out very clearly their relative importance. This is not the place to discuss
the difficult cases where, in consequence of too great a number of intermediaries having been
lost, or from ancient copyists having arbitrarily blended the texts of different traditions,
the operation becomes extremely laborious or impracticable. Besides, in these extreme cases
there is no new method involved: the comparison of corresponding passages is a powerful instrument,
but it is the only one which criticism has at its disposal for this task.

When the genealogical tree of the manuscripts has been drawn up, we endeavour to restore the
text of the archetype by comparing the different traditions. If these agree and give a satisfactory
text, there is no difficulty. If they differ, we decide between them. If they accidentally
agree in giving a defective text, we have recourse to conjectural emendation, as if there were
only one copy.

It is, theoretically, much more advantageous to have several independent copies of a lost original
than to have only one, for the mere mechanical comparison of the different readings is often
enough to remove obscurities which the uncertain light of conjectural criticism would never
have illuminated. However, an abundance of manuscripts is an embarrassment rather than a help
when the work of grouping them has been left undone or done badly; nothing can be more unsatisfactory
than the arbitrary and hybrid restorations which are founded on copies whose relations to each
other and to the archetype have not been ascertained beforehand. On the other hand, the application
of rational methods requires, in some cases, a formidable expenditure of time and labour. Some
works are preserved in hundreds of copies all differing from each other; sometimes (as in the
case of the Gospels) the variants of a text of quite moderate extent are to be counted by thousands;
several years of assiduous labour are necessary for the preparation of a critical edition of
some mediæval romances. And after all this labour, all these collations and comparisons, can
we be sure that the text of the romance is sensibly better than it would have been if there
had been only two or three manuscripts to work upon? No. Some critical editions, owing to the
apparent wealth of material applicable to the work, demand a mechanical effort which is altogether
out of proportion to the positive results which are its reward.

"Critical editions" founded on several copies of a lost original ought to supply the public
with the means of verifying the "stemma codicum" which the editor has drawn up, and should
give the rejected variants in the notes. By this means competent readers are, at the worst,
put in possession, if not of the best possible text, at least of the materials for constructing
it.[74]

II. The results of textual criticism--a kind of cleaning and mending--are purely negative.
By the aid of conjecture, or by the aid of conjecture and comparison combined, we are enabled
to construct, not necessarily a good text, but the best text possible, of documents whose original
is lost. What we thus effect is the elimination of corrupt and adventitious readings likely
to cause error, and the recognition of suspected passages as such. But it is obvious that no
new information is supplied by this process. The text of a document which has been restored
at the cost of infinite pains is not worth more than that of a document whose original has
been preserved; on the contrary, it is worth less. If the autograph manuscript of the Æneid
had not been destroyed, centuries of collation and conjecture would have been saved, and the
text of the Æneid would have been better than it is. This is intended for those who excel at
the "emendation game,"[75] who are in consequence fond of it, and would really be sorry to
have no occasion to play it.

III. There will, however, be abundant scope for textual criticism as long as we do not possess
the exact text of every historical document. In the present state of science few labours are
more useful than those which bring new texts to light or improve texts already known. It is
a real service to the study of history to publish unedited or badly edited texts in a manner
conformable to the rules of criticism. In every country learned societies without number are
devoting the greater part of their resources and activity to this important work. But the immense
number of the texts to be criticised,[76] and the minute care required by the operations of
verbal criticism,[77] prevent the work of publication and restoration from advancing at any
but a slow pace. Before all the texts which are of interest for mediæval and modern history
shall have been edited or re-edited secundum artem, a long period must elapse, even supposing
that the relatively rapid pace of the last few years should be still further accelerated.[78]

CHAPTER III

CRITICAL INVESTIGATION OF AUTHORSHIP

It would be absurd to look for information about a fact in the papers of some one who knew
nothing, and could know nothing, about it. The first questions, then, which we ask when we
are confronted with a document is: Where does it come from? who is the author of it? what is
its date? A document in respect of which we necessarily are in total ignorance of the author,
the place, and the date is good for nothing.

This truth, which seems elementary, has only been adequately recognised in our own day. Such
is the natural [Greek: hakrishia] of man, that those who were the first to make a habit of
inquiring into the authorship of documents prided themselves, and justly, on the advance they
had made.

Most modern documents contain a precise indication of their authorship: in our days, books,
newspaper articles, official papers, and even private writings, are, in general, dated and
signed. Many ancient documents, on the other hand, are anonymous, without date, and have no
sufficient indication of their place of origin.

The spontaneous tendency of the human mind is to place confidence in the indications of authorship,
when there are any. On the cover and in the preface of the Châtiments, Victor Hugo is named
as the author; therefore Victor Hugo is the author of the Châtiments. In such and such a picture
gallery we see an unsigned picture whose frame has been furnished by the management with a
tablet bearing the name of Leonardo da Vinci; therefore Leonardo da Vinci painted this picture.
A poem with the title Philomena is found under the name of Saint Bonaventura in M. Clément's
Extraits des poètes chrétiens, in most editions of Saint Bonaventura's "works," and in a great
number of mediæval manuscripts; therefore Philomena was written by Saint Bonaventura, and "we
may gather thence much precious knowledge of the very soul" of this holy man.[79] Vrain-Lucas
offered to M. Chasles autographs of Vercingetorix, Cleopatra, and Saint Mary Magdalene, duly
signed, and with the flourishes complete:[80] here, thought M. Chasles, are autographs of Vercingetorix,
Cleopatra, and Saint Mary Magdalene. This is one of the most universal, and at the same time
indestructible, forms of public credulity.

Experience and reflection have shown the necessity of methodically checking these instinctive
impulses of confiding trust. The autographs of Vercingetorix, Cleopatra, and Mary Magdalene
had been manufactured by Vrain-Lucas. The Philomena, attributed by mediæval scribes now to
Saint Bonaventura, now to Louis of Granada, now to John Hoveden, now to John Peckham, is perhaps
by none of these authors, and certainly not by the first-named. Paintings in which there is
not the least gleam of talent have, in the most celebrated galleries of Italy, been tricked
out, without the least shadow of proof, with the glorious name of Leonardo. On the other hand,
it is perfectly true that Victor Hugo is the author of the Châtiments. The conclusion is, that
the most precise indications of authorship are never sufficient by themselves. They only afford
a presumption, strong or weak--very strong, in general, where modern documents are concerned,
often very weak in the case of ancient documents. False indications of authorship exist, some
foisted upon insignificant works in order to enhance their value, some appended to works of
merit in order to serve the reputation of a particular person, or to mystify posterity; and
there are a hundred other motives which may easily be imagined, and of which a list has been
drawn up:[81] the "pseudepigraphic" literature of antiquity and the middle ages is enormous.
There are, in addition, documents which are forged from beginning to end; the forgers have
naturally furnished them with very precise indications of their alleged authorship. Verification
is therefore necessary. But how is it to be had? When the apparent authorship of a document
is suspected, we use for its verification the same method which serves to fix, as far as possible,
the origin of documents which are furnished with no indications at all on this head. As the
procedure is the same in both cases, it is not necessary to distinguish further between them.

I. The chief instrument used in the investigation of authorship is the internal analysis of
the document under consideration, performed with a view to bring out any indications it may
contain of a nature to supply information about the author, and the time and place in which
he lived.

First of all we examine the handwriting of the document. Saint Bonaventura was born in 1221;
if poems attributed to him are contained in manuscripts executed in the eleventh century, we
have in this circumstance an excellent proof that the attribution is ill-founded: no document
of which there exists a copy in eleventh-century handwriting can be posterior in date to the
eleventh century. Then we examine the language. It is known that certain forms have only been
used in certain places and at certain dates. Most forgers have betrayed themselves by ignorance
of facts of this kind; they let slip modern words or phrases. It has been possible to establish
the fact that certain Phoenician inscriptions, found in South America, were earlier than a
certain German dissertation on a point of Phoenician syntax. In the case of official instruments
we examine the formulæ. If a document which purports to be a Merovingian charter does not exhibit
the ordinary formulæ of genuine Merovingian charters it must be spurious. Lastly, we note all
the positive data which occur in the document--the facts which are mentioned or alluded to.
When these facts are otherwise known, from sources which a forger could not have had at his
disposal, the bonâ fides of the document is established, and the date fixed approximately between
the most recent event of which the author shows knowledge, and the next following event which
he does not mention but would have done if he had known of it. Arguments may also be founded
on the circumstance that particular facts are mentioned with approval, or particular opinions
expressed, and help us to make a conjectural estimate of the status, the environment, and the
character of the author.

When the internal analysis of a document is carefully performed, it generally gives us a tolerably
accurate notion of its authorship. By means of a methodical comparison, instituted between
the various elements of the documents analysed and the corresponding elements of similar documents
whose authorship was known with certainty, the detection of many a forgery[82] has been rendered
possible, and additional information acquired about the circumstances under which most genuine
documents have been produced.

The results obtained by internal analysis are supplemented and verified by collecting all the
external evidence relative to the document under criticism which can be found scattered over
the documents of the same or later epochs--quotations, biographical details about the author,
and so on. Sometimes there is a significant absence of any such information: the fact that
an alleged Merovingian charter has not been quoted by anybody before the seventeenth century,
and has only been seen by a seventeenth-century scholar who has been convicted of fraud, suggests
the thought that it is modern.

II. Hitherto we have considered only the simplest case, in which the document under examination
is the work of a single author. But many documents have, at different times, received additions
which it is important to distinguish from the original text, in order that we may not attribute
to X, the author of the text, what really belongs to Y or Z, his unforeseen collaborators.[83]
There are two kinds of additions--interpolations and continuations. To interpolate is to insert
into the text words or sentences which were not in the author's manuscript.[84] Usually interpolations
are accidental, due to the negligence of the copyist, and explicable as the introduction into
the text of interlinear glosses or marginal notes; but there are cases where some one has deliberately
added to (or substituted for) the author's text words or sentences out of his own head, for
the sake of completeness, ornament, or emphasis. If we had before us the manuscript in which
the deliberate interpolation was made, the appearance of the added matter and the traces of
erasure would make the case clear at once. But the first interpolated copy has nearly always
been lost, and in the copies derived from it every trace of addition or substitution has disappeared.
There is no need to define "continuations." It is well known that many chronicles of the middle
ages have been "continued" by various writers, none of whom took the trouble to indicate where
his own work began or ended.

Sometimes interpolations and continuations can be very readily distinguished in the course
of the operations for restoring a text of which there are several copies, when it so happens
that some of these copies reproduce the primitive text as it was before any addition was made
to it. But if all the copies are founded on previous copies which already contained the interpolations
or continuations, recourse must be had to internal analysis. Is the style uniform throughout
the document? Does the book breathe one and the same spirit from cover to cover? Are there
no contradictions, no gaps in the sequence of ideas? In practice, when the continuators or
interpolators have been men of well-marked personality and decided views, analysis will separate
the original from the additions as cleanly as a pair of scissors. When the whole is written
in a level, colourless style, the lines of division are not so easy to see; it is then better
to confess the fact than to multiply hypotheses.

III. The critical investigation of authorship is not finished as soon as a document has been
accurately or approximately localised in space and time, and as much information as possible
obtained about the author or authors.[85] Here is a book: we wish to ascertain the origin of
the information contained in it, that is, to be in a position to appreciate its value; is it
enough to know that it was written in 1890, at Paris, by So-and-so? Perhaps So-and-so copied
slavishly, without mentioning the fact, an earlier work, written in 1850. The responsible guarantor
of the borrowed parts is not So-and-so, but the author of 1850. Plagiarism, it is true, is
now rare, forbidden by the law, and considered dishonourable; formerly it was common, tolerated,
and unpunished. Many historical documents, with every appearance of originality, are nothing
but unavowed repetitions of earlier documents, and historians occasionally experience, in this
connection, remarkable disillusions. Certain passages in Eginhard, a ninth-century chronicler,
are borrowed from Suetonius: they have nothing to do with the history of the ninth century;
how if the fact had not been discovered? An event is attested three times, by three chroniclers;
but these three attestations, which agree so admirably, are really only one if it is ascertained
that two of the three chroniclers copied the third, or that the three parallel accounts have
been drawn from one and the same source. Pontifical letters and Imperial charters of the middle
ages contain eloquent passages which must not be taken seriously; they are part of the official
style, and were copied word for word from chancery formularies.

It belongs to the investigation of authorship to discover, as far as possible, the sources
utilised by the authors of documents.

The problem thus presented to us has some resemblance to that of the restoration of texts of
which we have already spoken. In both cases we proceed on the assumption that identical readings
have a common source: a number of different scribes, in transcribing a text, will not make
exactly the same mistakes in exactly the same places; a number of different writers, relating
the same facts, will not have viewed them from exactly the same standpoint, nor will they say
the same things in exactly the same language. The great complexity of historical events makes
it extremely improbable that two independent observers should narrate them in the same manner.
We endeavour to group the documents into families in the same way as we make families of manuscripts.
Similarly, we are enabled in the result to draw up genealogical tables. The examiners who correct
the compositions of candidates for the bachelor's degree sometimes notice that the papers of
two candidates who sat next each other bear a family likeness. If they have a mind to find
out which is derived from the other, they have no difficulty in doing so, in spite of the petty
artifices (slight modifications, expansions, abstracts, additions, suppressions, transpositions)
which the plagiarist multiplies in order to throw suspicion off the scent The two guilty ones
are sufficiently betrayed by their common errors; the more culpable of the two is detected
by the slips he will have made, and especially by the errors in his own papers which are due
to peculiarities in those of his accommodating friend. Similarly when two ancient documents
are in question: when the author of one has copied directly from the other, the filiation is
generally easy to establish; the plagiarist, whether he abridges or expands, nearly always
betrays himself sooner or later.[86]

When there are three documents in a family their mutual relationships are sometimes harder
to specify. Let A, B, and C be the documents. Suppose A is the common source: perhaps B and
C copied it independently; perhaps C only knew A through the medium of B, or B knew it only
through C. If B and C have abridged the common source in different ways, they are evidently
independent. When B depends on C, or vice versâ, we have the simplest case, treated in the
preceding paragraph. But suppose the author of C combined A and B, while B had already used
A: the genealogy begins to get complicated. It is more complicated still when there are four,
five, or more documents in a family, for the number of possible combinations increases with
great rapidity. However, if too many intermediate links have not been lost, criticism succeeds
in disentangling the relationships by persistent and ingenious applications of the method of
repeated comparisons. Modern scholars (Krusch, for example, who has made a speciality of Merovingian
hagiography) have recently constructed, by the use of this method, precise genealogies of the
utmost solidity.[87] The results of the critical investigation of authorship, as applied to
the filiation of documents, are of two kinds. Firstly, lost documents are reconstructed. Suppose
two chroniclers, B and C, have used, each in his own way, a common source X, which has now
disappeared. We may form an idea of X by piecing together the fragments of it which occur imbedded
in B and C, just as we form an idea of a lost manuscript by comparing the partial copies of
it which have been preserved. On the other hand, criticism destroys the authority of a host
of "authentic" documents--that is, documents which no one suspects of having been falsified--by
showing that they are derivative, that they are worth whatever their sources may be worth,
and that, when they embellish their sources with imaginary details and rhetorical flourishes,
they are worth just nothing at all. In Germany and England editors of documents have introduced
the excellent system of printing borrowed passages in small characters, and original passages
whose source is unknown in larger characters. Thanks to this system it is possible to see at
a glance that celebrated chronicles, which are often (very wrongly) quoted, are mere compilations,
of no value in themselves: thus the Flores historiarum of the self-styled Matthew of Westminster,
perhaps the most popular of the English mediæval chronicles, are almost entirely taken from
original works by Wendover and Matthew of Paris.[88]

IV. The critical investigation of authorship saves historians from huge blunders. Its results
are striking. By eliminating spurious documents, by detecting false ascriptions, by determining
the conditions of production of documents which had been defaced by time, and by connecting
them with their sources,[89] it has rendered services of such magnitude that to-day it is regarded
as having a special right to the name of "criticism." It is usual to say of an historian that
he "fails in criticism" when he neglects to distinguish between documents, when he never mistrusts
traditional ascriptions, and when he accepts, as if afraid to lose a single one, all the pieces
of information, ancient or modern, good or bad, which come to him, from whatever quarter.[90]

This view is perfectly just. We must not, however, be satisfied with this form of criticism,
and we must not abuse it.

We must not abuse it. The extreme of distrust, in these matters, is almost as mischievous as
the extreme of credulity. Père Hardouin, who attributed the works of Vergil and Horace to mediæval
monks, was every whit as ridiculous as the victim of Vrain-Lucas. It is an abuse of the methods
of this species of criticism to apply them, as has been done, indiscriminately, for the mere
pleasure of it. The bunglers who have used this species of criticism to brand as spurious perfectly
genuine documents, such as the writings of Hroswitha, the Ligurinus, and the bull Unam Sanctam,[91]
or to establish imaginary filiations between certain annals, on the strength of superficial
indications, would have discredited criticism before now if that had been possible. It is praiseworthy,
certainly, to react against those who never raise a doubt about the authorship of a document;
but it is carrying the reaction too far to take an exclusive interest in periods of history
which depend on documents of uncertain authorship. The only reason why the documents of modern
and contemporary history are found less interesting than those of antiquity and the early middle
ages, is that the identity which nearly always obtains between their apparent and their real
authorship leaves no room for those knotty problems of attribution in which the virtuosi of
criticism are accustomed to display their skill.[92]

Nor must we be content with it. The critical investigation of authorship, like textual criticism,
is preparatory, and its results negative. Its final aim and crowning achievement is to get
rid of documents which are not documents, and which would have misled us; that is all. "It
teaches us not to use bad documents; it does not teach us how to turn good ones to account."[93]
It is not the whole of "historical criticism;" it is only one stone in the edifice.[94]

CHAPTER IV

CRITICAL CLASSIFICATION OF SOURCES

By the help of the preceding operations the documents, all the documents, let us suppose, of
a given class, or relating to a given subject, have been found. We know where they are; the
text of each has been restored, if necessary, and each has been critically examined in respect
of authorship. We know where they have come from. It remains to combine and classify the materials
thus verified. This is the last of the operations which may be called preparatory to the work
of higher (or internal) criticism and construction.

Whoever studies a point of history is obliged, first of all, to classify his sources. To arrange,
in a rational and convenient manner, the verified materials before making use of them, is an
apparently humble, but really very important, part of the historian's profession. Those who
have learnt how to do it possess, on that account alone, a marked advantage: they give themselves
less trouble, and they obtain better results; the others waste their time and labour; they
are smothered sometimes under the disorderly mass of notes, extracts, copies, scraps, which
they themselves have accumulated. Who was it spoke of those busy people who spend their lives
lifting building-stones without knowing where to place them, raising as they do so clouds of
blinding dust?

I. Here, again, we have to confess that the first, the natural impulse, is not the right one.
The first impulse of most men who have to utilise a number of texts is to make notes from them,
one after another, in the order in which they study them. Many of the early scholars (whose
papers we possess) worked on this system, and so do most beginners who are not warned beforehand;
the latter keep, as the former kept, note-books, which they fill continuously and progressively
with notes on the texts they are interested in. This method is utterly wrong. The materials
collected must be classified sooner or later; otherwise it would be necessary, when occasion
arose, to deal separately with the materials bearing on a given point, to read right through
the whole series of note-books, and this laborious process would have to be repeated every
time a new detail was wanted. If this method seems attractive at first, it is because it appears
to save time. But this is false economy; the ultimate result is, an enormous addition to the
labour of search, and great difficulty in combining the materials.

Others, well understanding the advantages of systematic classification, have proposed to fit
their materials, as fast as collected, into their appropriate places in a prearranged scheme.
For this purpose they use note-books of which every page has first been provided with a heading.
Thus all the entries of the same kind are close to one another. This system leaves something
to be desired; for additions will not always fit without inconvenience into their proper place;
and the scheme of classification, once adopted, is rigid, and can only be modified with difficulty.
Many librarians used to draw up their catalogues on this plan, which is now universally condemned.

There is a still more barbarous method, which need not receive more than passing mention. This
is simply to register documents in the memory without taking written notes. This method has
been used. Historians endowed with excellent memories, and lazy to boot, have indulged this
whim, with the result that their quotations and references are mostly inexact. The human memory
is a delicate piece of registering apparatus, but it is so little an instrument of precision
that such presumption is inexcusable. The notes from each document are entered upon a loose
leaf furnished with the precisest possible indications of origin. The advantages of this artifice
are obvious: the detachability of the slips enables us to group them at will in a host of different
combinations; if necessary, to change their places: it is easy to bring texts of the same kind
together, and to incorporate additions, as they are acquired, in the interior of the groups
to which they belong. As for documents which are interesting from several points of view, and
which ought to appear in several groups, it is sufficient to enter them several times over
on different slips; or they may be represented, as often as may be required, on reference-slips.
Moreover, the method of slips is the only one mechanically possible for the purpose of forming,
classifying, and utilising a collection of documents of any great extent. Statisticians, financiers,
and men of letters who observe, have now discovered this as well as scholars.

The method of slips is not without its drawbacks. Each slip ought to be furnished with precise
references to the source from which its contents have been derived; consequently, if a document
has been analysed upon fifty different slips, the same references must be repeated fifty times.
Hence a slight increase in the amount of writing to be done. It is certainly on account of
this trivial complication that some obstinately cling to the inferior note-book system. Again,
in virtue of their very detachability, the slips, or loose leaves, are liable to go astray;
and when a slip is lost how is it to be replaced? To begin with, its disappearance is not perceived,
and, if it were, the only remedy would be to go right through all the work already done from
beginning to end. But the truth is, experience has suggested a variety of very simple precautions,
which we need not here explain in detail, by which the drawbacks of the system are reduced
to a minimum. It is recommended to use slips of uniform size and tough material, and to arrange
them at the earliest opportunity in covers or drawers or otherwise. Every one is free to form
his own habits in these matters. But it is well to realise beforehand that these habits, according
as they are more or less rational and practical, have a direct influence on the results of
scientific work. Renan speaks of "these points of private librarianship which make up the half
of scientific work."[95] This is not too strong. One scholar will owe a good part of his well-deserved
reputation to his method of collecting, while another will be, so to speak, paralysed by his
clumsiness in that particular.[96]

After having collected the documents, whether copied in extenso or abridged, on slips or loose
leaves, we classify them. On what scheme? In what order? Clearly different cases must be treated
differently, and it would not be reasonable to lay down precise formulæ to govern them all.
However, we may give a few general considerations.

II. We distinguish between the historian who classifies verified documents for the purposes
of historical work, and the scholar who compiles "Regesta." By the words "Regesta" and "Corpus"
we understand methodically classified collections of historical documents. In a "Corpus" documents
are reproduced in extenso; in "Regesta" they are analysed and described.

The use of these compilations is to assist researchers in collecting documents. Scholars set
themselves to perform, once for all, tasks of search and classification from which, thanks
to them, the public will henceforth be free.

Documents may be grouped according to their date, according to their place of origin, according
to their contents, according to their form.[97] Here we have the four categories of time, place,
species, and form; by superposing, then, we obtain divisions of smaller extent. We may undertake,
for example, to make a group of all the documents having a given form, of a given country,
and lying between two given dates (French royal charters of the reign of Philip Augustus);
or of all the documents of a given form (Latin inscriptions); or of a given species (Latin
hymns); of a given epoch (antiquity, the middle ages). We may recall, by way of illustration,
the existence of a Corpus Inscriptionum Græcarum, of a Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum, of a
Corpus Scriptorum Ecclesiasticorum Latinorum, the Regesta Imperii of J. F. Böhmer and his continuators,
the Regesta Pontificum Romanorum of P. Jaffé and A. Potthast.

Whatever the division chosen, there are two alternatives: either the documents to be placed
in this division are dated or they are not.

If they are dated, as is the case, for example, with the charters issued from the chancery
of a prince, care will have been taken to place at the head of each slip the date (expressed
in modern reckoning) of the document entered upon it. Nothing is then easier than to group
in chronological order all the slips, that is, all the documents, which have been collected.
The rule is to use chronological classification whenever possible. There is only one difficulty,
and that is of a practical order. Even in the most favourable circumstances some of the documents
will have accidentally lost their dates; these dates the compiler is bound to restore, or at
least to attempt to restore; long and patient research is necessary for the purpose.

If the documents are not dated, a choice must be made between the alphabetical, the geographical,
and the systematic order. The history of the Corpus of Latin inscriptions bears witness to
the difficulty of this choice. "The arrangement according to date was impossible, seeing that
most of the inscriptions are not dated. From the time of Smetius it was usual to divide them
into classes, that is, a distinction was made, resting solely on the contents of the inscription,
and having no regard to their place of origin, between religious, sepulchral, military, and
poetical inscriptions, those which have a public character, and those which only concern private
persons, and so on. Boeckh, although he had preferred the geographical arrangement for his
Corpus Inscriptionum Græcarum, was of opinion that the arrangement by subjects, which had been
hitherto employed, was the only possible one for a Latin Corpus...." [Even those who, in France,
proposed the geographical arrangement] "wished to make an exception of texts relating to the
general history of a country, certainly, at any rate, in the case of the Empire; in 1845 Zumpt
defended a very complicated eclectic system of this kind. In 1847 Mommsen still rejected the
geographical arrangement except for municipal inscriptions, and in 1852, when he published
the Inscriptions of the Kingdom of Naples, he had not entirely changed his opinion. It was
only on being charged by the Academy of Berlin with the publication of the Corpus Inscriptionum
Latinarum, that, grown wise by experience, he rejected even the exceptions proposed by Egger
in the case of the general history of a province, and thought it his duty to keep to the geographical
arrangement pure and simple."[98] And yet, considering the nature of epigraphic documents,
the arrangement according to place was the only rational one. This has been amply demonstrated
for more than fifty years; but collectors of inscriptions did not come to an agreement on the
subject till after two centuries of tentative efforts in different directions. For two centuries
collections of Latin inscriptions have been made without any perception of the fact that "to
group inscriptions according to their subjects is much the same thing as to publish an edition
of Cicero in which his speeches, treatises, and letters should be cut up and the fragments
arranged according to their subject-matter;" that "epigraphic monuments belonging to the same
territory mutually explain each other when placed side by side;" and, lastly, that "while it
is all but impossible to range in order of subject-matter a hundred thousand inscriptions nearly
all of which belong to several categories; on the other hand, each monument has but one place,
and a very definite place, in the geographical order."[99]

The alphabetical arrangement is very convenient when the chronological and geographical arrangements
are unsuitable. There are documents, such as the sermons, the hymns, and the secular songs
of the middle ages, which are not precisely dated or localised. They are arranged in the alphabetical
order of their incipit--that is, the words with which they begin.[100]

The systematic order, or arrangement by subjects, is not to be recommended for the compilation
of a Corpus or of regesta. It is always arbitrary, and leads to inevitable repetition and confusion.
Besides, given collections arranged in chronological, geographical, or alphabetical order,
nothing more than the addition of a good table of contents is needed to make them available
for all the purposes which would be served by a systematic arrangement. One of the chief rules
of the art of Corpus and regesta-making, that great art which has been carried to such perfection
in the second half of the nineteenth century,[101] is to provide these collections, whatever
the grouping adopted, with a variety of tables and indexes of a kind to facilitate the use
of them: incipit tables in chronological regesta which lend themselves to such treatment, indexes
of names and dates in regesta arranged by order of incipit, and so on.

Corpus and regesta-makers collect and classify for the use of others documents in which, at
any rate in all of which, they have no direct interest, and are absorbed in this labour. Ordinary
workers, on the other hand, only collect and classify materials useful for their individual
studies. Hence certain differences arise. For example, the arrangement by subjects, on a predetermined
system, which is so little to be recommended for great collections, often provides those who
are composing monographs on their own account with a scheme of classification preferable to
any other. But it will always be well to cultivate the mechanical habits of which professional
compilers have learnt the value by experience: to write at the head of every slip its date,
if there is occasion for it, and a heading[102] in any case; to multiply cross-references and
indices; to keep a record, on a separate set of slips, of all the sources utilised, in order
to avoid the danger of having to work a second time through materials already dealt with. The
regular observance of these maxims goes a great way towards making scientific historical work
easier and more solid. The possession of a well-arranged, though incomplete, collection of
slips has enabled M. B. Hauréau to exhibit to the end of his life an undeniable mastery over
the very special class of historical problems which he studied.[103]

CHAPTER V

CRITICAL SCHOLARSHIP AND SCHOLARS

The sum of the operations described in the preceding chapters (restoration of texts, investigation
of authorship, collection and classification of verified documents) constitutes the vast domain
of external criticism, or critical scholarship.

The public at large, with its vulgar and superficial standards, has nothing but disdain for
the whole of critical scholarship. Some of its votaries, on the other hand, are inclined to
exalt it unduly. But there is a happy medium between these extremes of over-appreciation and
contempt.

The crude opinion of those who pity and despise the minute analysis of external criticism hardly
deserves refutation. There is only one argument for the legitimacy and honourable character
of the obscure labours of erudition, but it is a decisive argument: it rests on their indispensability.
No erudition, no history. "Non sunt contemnenda quasi parva," says St. Jerome, "sine quibus
magna constare non possunt."[104]

On the other hand, scholars by profession, in their zeal to justify their pride in their work,
are not content with maintaining its necessity; they allow themselves to be carried away into
an exaggeration of its merit and importance. It has been said that the sure methods of external
criticism have raised history to the dignity of a science, "of an exact science;" that critical
investigations of authorship "enable us, better than any other study, to gain a profound insight
into past ages;" that the habit of criticising texts refines or even confers the "historical
sense." It has been tacitly assumed that external criticism is the whole of historical criticism,
and that beyond the purgation, emendation, and classification of documents there is nothing
left to do. This illusion, common enough among specialists, is too crude to need express refutation;
the fact is, that it is the psychological criticism which deals with interpretation and examines
into the good faith and accuracy of authors that has, better than any other study, enabled
us to gain a profound insight into past ages, not external criticism.[105] An historian who
should be fortunate enough to find all the documents bearing on his studies already edited
correctly, classified, and critically examined as to authorship, would be in just as good a
position to use them for writing history as if he had performed all the preliminary operations
himself. It is quite possible, whatever may be said, to have the historical sense in full measure
without having ever, both literally and figuratively, wiped away the dust from original documents--that
is, without having discovered and restored them for oneself. We need not interpret in the Jewish
or etymological sense the dictum of Renan: "I do not think it possible for any one to acquire
a clear notion of history, its limits, and the amount of confidence to be placed in the different
categories of historical investigation, unless he is in the habit of handling original documents."[106]
This is to be understood as simply referring to the habit of going direct to the sources, and
treating definite problems.[107] Without doubt a day will come when all the documents relating
to the history of classical antiquity shall have been edited and treated critically. There
will then be no more room, in this department of study, for textual criticism or the investigation
of sources; but, for all that, the conditions for the treatment of general ancient history,
or special parts of it, will be then eminently favourable. External criticism, as we cannot
too often repeat, is entirely preparatory; it is a means, not an end; the ideal state of things
would be that it should have been already sufficiently practised that we might dispense with
it for the future; it is only a temporary necessity. Theoretically, not only is it unnecessary
for those who wish to make historical syntheses to do for themselves the preparatory work on
the materials which they use, but we have a right to ask, as has been often asked, whether
there is any advantage in their doing it.[108] Would it not be preferable that workers in the
field of history should specialise? On the one class--the specialists--would devolve the absorbing
tasks of external or erudite criticism; the others, relieved of the weight of these tasks,
would have greater liberty to devote themselves to the work of higher criticism, of combination
and construction. Such was the opinion of Mark Pattison, who said, History cannot be written
from manuscripts, which is as much as to say: "It is impossible for a man to write history
from documents which he is obliged to put for himself into a condition in which they can be used."

Formerly the professions of "critical scholar" and "historian" were, in fact, clearly distinguished.
The "historians" cultivated the empty and pompous species of literature which then was known
as "history," without considering themselves bound to keep in touch with the work of the scholars.
The latter, for their part, determined by their critical researches the conditions under which
history must be written, but were at no pains to write it themselves. Content to collect, emend,
and classify historical documents, they took no interest in history, and understood the past
no better than did the mass of their contemporaries. The scholars acted as though erudition
were an end in itself, and the historians as if they had been able to reconstruct vanished
realities by the mere force of reflection and ingenuity applied to the inferior documents,
which were common property. So complete a divorce between erudition and history seems to-day
almost inexplicable, and it was in truth mischievous enough. We need not say that the present
advocates of the division of labour in history have nothing of the kind in view. It is admittedly
necessary that close relations should obtain between the world of historians and that of critical
scholars, for the work of the latter has no reason for existence beyond its utility to the
former. All that is meant is, that certain analytical and all synthetic operations are not
necessarily better performed when they are performed by the same person; that though the characters
of historian and scholar may be combined, there is nothing illegitimate in their separation;
and that perhaps this separation is desirable in theory, as, in practice, it is often a necessity.

In practice, what happens is as follows. Whatever part of history a man undertakes to study,
there are only three possible cases. In the first the sources have already been emended and
classified; in the second the preliminary work on the sources, which has been only partially
done, or not at all, offers no great difficulty; in the third the sources are in a very bad
state, and require a great deal of labour to fit them for use. We may observe, in passing,
that there is naturally no proportion between the intrinsic importance of the subject and the
amount of preliminary work which must be done before it can be treated: there are some subjects
of the highest interest, for example the history of the origin and early development of Christianity,
which could not be properly attacked till after the completion of investigations which occupied
several generations of scholars; but the material criticism of the sources of the history of
the French Revolution, another subject of the first rank, gave much less trouble; and there
are comparatively unimportant problems in mediæval history which will not be solved till after
an immense amount of external criticism shall have been performed.

In the two first cases the expediency of a division of labour does not come in question. But
take the third case. A man of ability discovers that the documents which are necessary for
the treatment of a point of history are in a very bad condition; they are scattered, corrupt,
and untrustworthy. He must take his choice; either he must abandon the subject, having no taste
for the mechanical operations which he knows to be necessary, but which, as he foresees, would
absorb the whole of his energy; or else he resolves to enter upon the preparatory critical
work, without concealing from himself that in all probability he will never have time to utilise
the materials he has verified, and that he will therefore be working for those who will come
after him. If he adopts the second alternative he becomes a critical scholar by profession,
as it were in spite of himself. A priori, it is true, there is nothing to prevent those who
make great collections of texts and publish critical editions from using their own compilations
and editions for the writing of history; and we see, as a matter of fact, that several men
have divided themselves between the preparatory tasks of external criticism and the more exalted
labours of historical construction: it is enough to mention the names of Waitz, Mommsen, and
Hauréau. But this combination is very rare, for several reasons. The first is the shortness
of life; there are catalogues, editions, regesta on a great scale, the construction of which
entails so much mechanical labour as to exhaust the strength of the most zealous worker. The
second is the fact that, for many persons, the tasks of critical scholarship are not without
their charm; nearly every one finds in them a singular satisfaction in the long run; and some
have confined themselves to these tasks who might, strictly speaking, have aspired to higher
things.

Is it a good thing in itself that some workers should, voluntarily or not, confine themselves
to the researches of critical scholarship? Yes, without a doubt. In the study of history, the
results of the division of labour are the same as in the industrial arts, and highly satisfactory--more
abundant, more successful, better regulated production. Critics who have been long habituated
to the restoration of texts restore them with incomparable dexterity and sureness; those who
devote themselves exclusively to investigations of authorship and sources have intuitions which
would not occur to others less versed in this difficult and highly specialised branch; those
who have spent their lives in the construction of catalogues and the compilation of regesta
construct and compile them more easily, more quickly, and better than the man in the street.
Thus, not only is there no special reason for requiring every "historian" to be at the same
time an active worker in the field of critical scholarship, but even those scholars who are
engaged in the operations of external criticism come under different categories. Similarly,
in a stoneyard there is no point in the architect being at the same time a workman, nor have
all the workmen the same functions. Although most critical scholars have not rigorously specialised
so far, and although they vary their pleasures by voluntarily executing different kinds of
critical work, it would be easy to name some who are specialists in descriptive catalogues
and indexes (archivists, librarians, and the like), others who are more particularly "critics"
(purifiers, restorers, and editors of texts), and others who are pre-eminently compilers of
regesta. "The moment it is admitted that erudition is only valuable for the sake of its results,
it becomes impossible to carry the division of scientific labour too far;"[109] and the progress
of the historical sciences corresponds to the narrower and narrower specialisation of the workers.
It was possible, not very long ago, for the same man to devote himself successively to all
the operations of historical inquiry, but that was because he appealed to a not very exacting
public: nowadays we require of those who criticise documents a minute accuracy and an absolute
perfection which presuppose real professional skill. The historical sciences have now reached
a stage in their evolution at which the main lines have been traced, the great discoveries
made, and nothing remains but a more precise treatment of details. We feel instinctively that
any further advance must be by dint of investigations of such extent, and analyses of such
depth, as none but specialists are capable of.

But the best justification of the division of workers into "scholars" and "historians" (and
of the distribution of the former among the various branches of external criticism) is to be
found in the fact that different persons have a natural vocation for different tasks. One of
the chief justifications of the institution of higher historical teaching is, in our opinion,
the opportunity afforded the teachers (presumably men of experience) of discerning in the students,
in the course of their university career, either the germ of a vocation for critical scholarship,
or fundamental unfitness for critical work, as the case may be.[110] Criticus non fit, sed
nascitur. For one who is not endowed by nature with certain aptitudes, a career of technical
erudition has nothing but disappointments in store: the greatest service that can be rendered
to young men hesitating whether to adopt such a career or not is to warn them of the fact.
Those who hitherto have devoted themselves to the preparatory tasks of criticism have either
chosen them in preference to others because they had a taste for them, or else have submitted
to them because they knew they were necessary; those who engaged in them by choice have less
merit, from the ethical point of view, than those who submitted to them, but, for all that,
they have mostly obtained better results, because they have worked, not as a matter of duty,
but joyfully and whole-heartedly. It is important that every one should realise the situation,
and, in his own as well as the general interest, embrace the special work which suits him best.

We now propose to examine the natural aptitudes which fit, and the truly prohibitory defects
which disqualify, for the labours of external criticism. We shall, then, devote a few words
to the effects produced on the character by professional habituation to the labours of critical
scholarship.

The chief condition of success in these labours is to like them. Those who are exceptionally
gifted as poets or thinkers--that is, those who are endowed with creative power--have much
difficulty in adapting themselves to the technical drudgery of preparatory criticism: they
are far from despising it; on the contrary, they hold it in honour, if they are clear-sighted;
but they shrink from devoting themselves to it, for fear of using a razor, as is said, to cut
stones. "I have no mind," wrote Leibnitz to Basnage, who had exhorted him to compile an immense
Corpus of unpublished and printed documents relating to the history of the law of nations;
"I have no mind to turn transcriber.... Does it not occur to you that the advice you give me
resembles that of a man who should wish to marry his friend to a shrew? For to engage a man
in a lifelong work is much the same as to find him a wife."[111] And Renan, speaking of those
immense preliminary labours "which have rendered possible the researches of the higher criticism"
and attempts at historical construction, says: "The man who, with livelier intellectual needs
[than those of the men who performed these labours], should now accomplish such an act of abnegation,
would be a hero...."[112] Although Renan directed the publication of the Corpus Inscriptionum
Semiticarum, and Leibnitz was the editor of the Scriptores rerum Brunsvicensium, neither Leibnitz,
nor Renan, nor their peers have, fortunately, had the heroism to sacrifice their higher faculties
to purely critical learning.

Outside the class of superior men (and the infinitely more numerous class of those who wrongly
think themselves such), nearly every one, as we have already said, finds in the long run a
kind of satisfaction in the minutiæ of preparatory criticism. The reason is, that the practice
of this criticism appeals to and develops two very widespread tastes--the taste for collecting
and the taste for puzzles. The pleasure of collecting is one which is felt not by children
only, but by adults as well, no matter whether the collection be one of various readings or
of postage-stamps. The deciphering of rebuses, the solution of small problems of strictly definite
scope, are occupations which attract many able minds. Every find brings pleasure, and in the
field of erudition there are innumerable finds--some lying exposed and obvious, some guarded
by all but impenetrable barriers--to reward both those who do and those who do not delight
in surmounting difficulties. All the scholars of any distinction have possessed in an eminent
degree the instincts of the collector and the puzzle-solver, and some of them have been quite
conscious of the fact. "The more difficulties we encountered in our chosen path," says M. Hauréau,
"the more the enterprise pleased us. This species of labour, which is called bibliography [investigations
of authorship, principally from the point of view of pseudepigraphy], could not aspire to the
homage of the public, but it has a great attraction for those who devote themselves to it.
Yes, it is doubtless a humble study, but how many others are there which so often compensate
the trouble they give by affording us opportunity to cry Eureka."[113] Julien Havet, when he
was "already known to the learned men of Europe," used to divert himself "by apparently frivolous
amusements, such as guessing square words or deciphering cryptograms."[114] Profound instincts,
and, for all the childish or ridiculous perversions which they may exhibit in certain individuals,
of the highest utility! After all, these are forms, the most rudimentary forms, of the scientific
spirit. Those who are devoid of them have no place in the world of critical scholarship. But
those who aspire to be critical scholars will always be numerous; for the labours of interpretation,
construction, and exposition require the rarest gifts: all those whom chance has thrown into
the study of history, who desire to do useful work in that department, but are wanting in psychological
tact, or find composition irksome, will always allow themselves to be fascinated by the simple
and calm pleasures of the preliminary tasks.

But in order to succeed in critical labours it is not enough to like them. It is necessary
to possess qualifications "for which zeal is no substitute." What qualifications? Those who
have asked this question have answered vaguely: "Qualifications of the moral rather than the
intellectual order, patience, intellectual honesty...." Is it not possible to be more precise?

There are young students with no a priori repugnance for the labours of external criticism,
who perhaps are even disposed to like them, who yet are--experience has shown it--totally incapable
of performing them. There would be nothing perplexing in this if these persons were intellectually
feeble; this incapacity would then be but one manifestation of their general weakness; nor
yet if they had gone through no technical apprenticeship. But we are concerned with men of
education and intelligence, sometimes of exceptional ability, who do not labour under the above
disadvantages. These are the people of whom we hear: "He works badly, he has the genius of
inaccuracy." Their catalogues, their editions, their regesta, their monographs swarm with imperfections,
and never inspire confidence; try as they may, they never attain, I do not say absolute accuracy,
but any decent degree of accuracy. They are subject to "chronic inaccuracy," a disease of which
the English historian Froude is a typical and celebrated case. Froude was a gifted writer,
but destined never to advance any statement that was not disfigured by error; it has been said
of him that he was constitutionally inaccurate. And more of the same kind.[115] Froude was
perfectly aware of the utility of criticism, and he was even one of the first in England to
base the study of history on that of original documents, as well unpublished as published;
but his mental conformation rendered him altogether unfit for the emendation of texts; indeed,
he murdered them, unintentionally, whenever he touched them. Just as Daltonism (an affection
of the organs of sight which prevents a man from distinguishing correctly between red and green
signals) incapacitates for employment on a railway, so chronic inaccuracy, or "Froude's Disease"
(a malady not very difficult to diagnose) ought to be regarded as incompatible with the professional
practice of critical scholarship.

Froude's Disease does not appear to have ever been studied by the psychologists, nor, indeed,
is it to be considered as a separate pathological entity. Every one makes mistakes "out of
carelessness," "through inadvertence," and in many other ways. What is abnormal is to make
many mistakes, to be always making them, in spite of the most persevering efforts to be exact.
Probably this phenomenon is connected with weakness of the attention and excessive activity
of the involuntary (or subconscious) imagination which the will of the patient, lacking strength
and stability, is unable sufficiently to control. The involuntary imagination intrudes upon
intellectual operations only to vitiate them; its part is to fill up the gaps of memory by
conjecture, to magnify and attenuate realities, and to confuse them with the products of pure
invention. Most children distort everything by inexactitude of this kind, and it is only after
a hard struggle that they ever attain to a scrupulous accuracy--that is, learn to master their
imagination. Many men remain children, in this respect, the whole of their lives.

But, let the psychological causes of Froude's Disease be what they may, another point claims
our attention. The man of the sanest and best-balanced mind is liable to bungle the simplest
kinds of critical work if he does not allow them the necessary time. In these matters precipitancy
is the source of innumerable errors. It is rightly said that patience is the cardinal virtue
of the scholar. Do not work too fast, act as if there were always something to be gained by
waiting, leave work undone rather than spoil it: these are maxims easy enough to pronounce,
but not to be followed in practice by any but persons of calm temperament. There are nervous,
excitable persons, who are always in a hurry to get to the end, always seeking variety in their
occupations, and always anxious to dazzle and astonish: these may possibly find honourable
employment in other careers; but if they embrace erudition, they are doomed to pile up a mass
of provisional work, which is likely to do more harm than good, and is sure in the long run
to cause them many a vexation. The true scholar is cool, reserved, circumspect. In the midst
of the turmoil of life, which flows past him like a torrent, he never hurries. Why should he
hurry? The important thing is, that the work he does should be solid, definitive, imperishable.
Better "spend weeks polishing a masterpiece of a score of pages" in order to convince two or
three among the scholars of Europe that a particular charter is spurious, or take ten years
to construct the best possible text of a corrupt document, than give to the press in the same
interval volumes of moderately accurate anecdota which future scholars will some day have to
put through the mill again from beginning to end.

Whatever special branch of critical scholarship a man may choose, he ought to be gifted with
prudence, an exceptionally powerful attention and will, and, moreover, to combine a speculative
turn of mind with complete disinterestedness and little taste for action; for he must make
up his mind to work for distant and uncertain results, and, in nearly every case, for the benefit
of others. For textual criticism and the investigation of sources, it is, moreover, very useful
to have the puzzle-solving instinct--that is, a nimble, ingenious mind, fertile in hypotheses,
prompt to seize and even to guess the relations of things. For tasks of description and compilation
(the preparation of inventories and catalogues, corpus and regesta-making) it is absolutely
necessary to possess the collector's instinct, together with an exceptional appetite for work,
and the qualities of order, industry, and perseverance.[116] These are the aptitudes required.
The labours of external criticism are so distasteful to those who lack these aptitudes, and
the results obtained are, in their case, so small in comparison with the time expended, that
it is impossible for a man to make too sure of his vocation before entering upon a career of
critical scholarship. It is pitiful to see those who, for want of a wise word spoken in due
season, lose their way and vainly exhaust themselves in such a career, especially when they
have good reason for believing that they might have employed their talents to better advantage
in other directions.[117]

II. As critical and preparatory tasks are remarkably well suited to the temperament of a very
large number of Germans, and as the activity of German erudition during the present century
has been enormous, it is to Germany that we must go for the best cases of those mental deformations
which are produced, in the long run, by the habitual practice of external criticism. Hardly
a year passes but complaints are heard, in and about the German universities, of the ill effects
produced on scholars by the tasks of criticism.

In 1890, Herr Philippi, as Rector of the University of Giessen, forcibly deplored the chasm
which, as he said, is opening between preparatory criticism and general culture: textual criticism
loses itself in insignificant minutiæ; scholars collate for the mere pleasure of collating;
infinite precautions are employed in the restoration of worthless documents; it is thus evident
that "more importance is attached to the materials of study than to its intellectual results."
The Rector of Giessen sees in the diffuse style of German scholars and in the bitterness of
their polemical writings an effect of the habit they have contracted of "excessive preoccupation
with little things."[118] In the same year the same note was sounded, at the University of
Bâle, by Herr J. v. Pflugk-Harttung. "The highest branches of historical science are despised,"
says this author in his Geschichtsbetrachtungen[119]: "all that is valued is microscopic observations
and absolute accuracy in unimportant details. The criticism of texts and sources has become
a branch of sport: the least breach of the rules of the game is considered unpardonable, while
conformity to them is enough to assure the approval of connoisseurs, irrespectively of the
intrinsic value of the results obtained. Scholars are mostly malevolent and discourteous towards
each other; they make molehills and call them mountains; their vanity is as comic as that of
the citizen of Frankfort who used complacently to observe, 'All that you can see through yonder
archway is Frankfort territory.'"[120] We, for our part, are inclined to draw a distinction
between three professional risks to which scholars are subject: dilettantism, hypercriticism,
and loss of the power to work.

To take the last first: the habit of critical analysis has a relaxing and paralysing action
on certain intelligences. Men, of naturally timid dispositions, discover that whatever pains
they take with their critical work, their editing or classifying of documents, they are very
apt to make slight mistakes, and these slight mistakes, as a result of their critical education,
fill them with horror and dread. To discover blunders in their signed work when the time for
correction is past, causes them acute suffering. They reach at length a state of morbid anxiety
and scrupulosity which prevents them from doing anything at all, for fear of possible imperfections.
The examen rigorosum to which they are continually subjecting themselves brings them to a standstill.
They give the same measure to the productions of others, and in the end they see in historical
works nothing but the authorities and the notes, the apparatus criticus, and in the apparatus
criticus they see nothing but the faults in it which require correction.

Hypercriticism.--The excess of criticism, just as much as the crudest ignorance, leads to error.
It consists in the application of critical canons to cases outside their jurisdiction. It is
related to criticism as logic-chopping is to logic. There are persons who scent enigmas everywhere,
even where there are none. They take perfectly clear texts and subtilise on them till they
make them doubtful, under the pretext of freeing them from imaginary corruptions. They discover
traces of forgery in authentic documents. A strange state of mind! By constantly guarding against
the instinct of credulity they come to suspect everything.[121] It is to be observed that in
proportion as the criticism of texts and sources makes positive progress, the danger of hypercriticism
increases. When all the sources of history have been properly criticised (for certain parts
of ancient history this is no distant prospect), good sense will call a halt. But scholars
will refuse to halt; they will refine, as they do already on the best established texts, and
those who refine will inevitably fall into hypercriticism. "The peculiarity of the study of
history and its auxiliary philological sciences," says Renan, "is that as soon as they have
attained their relative perfection they begin to destroy themselves."[122] Hypercriticism is
the cause of this.

Dilettantism.--Scholars by profession and vocation have a tendency to treat the external criticism
of documents as a game of skill, difficult, but deriving an interest, much as chess does, from
the very complication of its rules. Some of them are indifferent to the larger questions--to
history itself, in fact. They criticise for the sake of criticism, and, in their view, the
elegance of the method of investigation is much more important than the results, whatever they
may be. These virtuosi are not concerned to connect their labours with some general idea--to
criticise systematically, for example, all the documents relating to a question, in order to
understand it; they criticise indiscriminately texts relating to all manner of subjects, on
the one condition of being sufficiently corrupt. Armed with their critical skill, they range
over the whole of the domain of history, and stop wherever a knotty problem invites their services;
this problem solved, or at least discussed, they go elsewhere to look for others. They leave
behind them no coherent work, but a heterogeneous collection of memoirs on every conceivable
subject, which resembles, as Carlyle says, a curiosity shop or an archipelago of small islands.

Dilettanti defend their dilettantism by sufficiently plausible arguments. To begin with, say
they, everything is important; in history there is no document which has not its value: "No
scientific work is barren, no truth is without its use for science ...; in history there is
no such thing as a trivial subject;" consequently, "it is not the nature of the subject which
makes work valuable, but the method employed."[123] The important thing in history is not "the
ideas one accumulates; it is the mental gymnastics, the intellectual training--in short, the
scientific spirit." Even supposing that there are degrees of importance among the data of history,
no one has a right to maintain a priori that a document is "useless." What, pray, is the criterion
of utility in these matters? How many documents are there not which, after being long despised,
have been suddenly placed in the foreground by a change of standpoint or by new discoveries?
"All exclusion is rash; there is no research which it is possible to brand beforehand as necessarily
sterile. That which has no value in itself may become valuable as a necessary means." Perhaps
a day may come when, science being in a sense complete, indifferent documents and facts may
be safely thrown overboard; but we are not at present in a position to distinguish the superfluous
from the necessary, and in all probability the line of demarcation will never be easy to trace.
This justifies the most special researches and the most futile in all appearance. And, if it
come to the worst, what does it matter if there is a certain amount of work wasted? "It is
a law in science, as in all human effort," and indeed in all the operations of nature, "to
work in broad outlines, with a wide margin of what is superfluous."

We shall not undertake to refute these arguments to the full extent in which this is possible.
Besides, Renan, who has put the case for both sides of the question with equal vigour, definitively
closed the debate in the following words: "It may be said that some researches are useless
in the sense of taking up time which would have been better spent on more serious questions....
Although it is not necessary for an artisan to have a complete knowledge of the work he is
employed to execute, it is still to be desired that those who devote themselves to special
labours should have some notion of the more general considerations which alone give value to
their researches. If all the industrious workers to whom modern science owes its progress had
had a philosophical comprehension of what they were doing, how much precious time would have
been saved!... It is deeply to be regretted that there should be such an immense waste of human
effort, merely for want of guidance, and a clear consciousness of the end to be pursued."[124]

Dilettantism is incompatible with a certain elevation of mind, and with a certain degree of
"moral perfection," but not with technical proficiency. Some of the most accomplished critics
merely make a trade of their skill, and have never reflected on the ends to which their art
is a means. It would, however, be wrong to infer that science itself has nothing to fear from
dilettantism. The dilettanti of criticism who work as fancy or curiosity bids them, who are
attracted to problems not by their intrinsic importance, but by their difficulty, do not supply
historians (those whose work it is to combine materials and use them for the main purposes
of history) with the materials of which the latter have the most pressing need, but with others
which might have waited. If the activity of specialists in external criticism were exclusively
directed to questions whose solution is important, and if it were regulated and guided from
above, it would be more fruitful.

The idea of providing against the dangers of dilettantism by a rational "organisation of labour"
is already ancient. Fifty years ago it was common to hear people talking of "supervision,"
of "concentrating scattered forces;" dreams were rife of "vast workshops" organised on the
model of those of modern industry, in which the preparatory labours of critical scholarship
were to be performed on a great scale, in the interests of science. In nearly all countries,
in fact, governments (through the medium of historical committees and commissions), academies,
and learned societies have endeavoured in our day, much as monastic congregations did of old,
to group professed scholars for the purposes of vast collective enterprises, and to co-ordinate
their efforts. But this banding of specialists in external criticism for the service and under
the supervision of competent men presents great mechanical difficulties. The problem of the
"organisation of scientific labour" is still the order of the day.[125]

III. Scholars are often censured for pride and excessive harshness in the judgments which they
pass on the labours of their colleagues; and these faults, as we have seen, are often attributed
to their excessive "preoccupation with little things," especially by persons whose attempts
have been severely judged. In reality there do exist modest and kindly scholars: it is a question
of character; professional "preoccupation with little things" is not enough to change natural
disposition in this respect. "Ce bon monsieur Du Cange," as the Benedictines said, was modest
to excess. "Nothing more is required," says he, in speaking of his labours, "but eyes and fingers
in order to do as much and more;" he never blamed any one, on principle. "If I study it is
for the pleasure of studying, and not to give pain to any one else, any more than to myself."[126]
It is, however, true that most scholars have no compunction in exposing each other's mistakes,
and that their austere zeal sometimes finds expression in harsh and overbearing language. Barring
the harshness they are quite right. Like physicians, chemists, and other members of learned
and scientific professions, they have a keen appreciation of the value of scientific truth,
and it is for this reason that they make a point of calling offenders to account. They are
thus enabled to bar the door against the tribe of incapables and charlatans who once infested
their profession.

Among the youths who propose to devote themselves to the study of history there are some in
whom the commercial spirit and vulgar ambition are stronger than the love of science. These
are apt to say to themselves: "Historical work, if it is to be done according to the rules
of method, requires an infinite amount of labour and caution. But do we not see historical
writings whose authors have more or less seriously violated the rules? Are these authors thought
any the less of on this account? Is it always the most conscientious writer who enjoys the
highest consideration? Cannot tact supply the place of knowledge?" If tact really could supply
the place of knowledge, then, as it is easier to do bad work than good, and as the important
thing with these people is success, they might be tempted to conclude that it does not matter
how badly they work as long as they succeed. Why should not things go in these matters as they
do in life, where it is not necessarily the best men that get on best? Well, it is due to the
pitiless severity of the critics that calculations of this kind would be as disastrous as they
are despicable.

Towards the end of the Second Empire there was in France no enlightened public opinion on the
subject of historical work. Bad books of historical erudition were published with impunity,
and sometimes even procured undeserved rewards for their authors. It was then that the founders
of the Revue Critique d'histoire et de littérature undertook to combat a state of things which
they lightly deemed demoralising. With this object they administered public chastisement to
those scholars who showed lack of conscience or method, in a manner calculated to disgust them
with erudition for ever. They performed sundry notable executions, not for the pleasure of
it, but with the firm resolve to establish a censorship and a wholesome dread of justice, in
the domain of historical study. Bad workers henceforth received no quarter, and though the
Revue did not exert any great influence on the public at large, its police-operations covered
a wide enough radius to impress most of those concerned with the necessity of sincerity and
respect for method. During the last twenty-five years the impulse thus given has spread beyond
all expectation.

It is now a matter of great difficulty to impose on the world of scholars, in matters connected
with their studies, or at least to keep up the deception for any length of time. In the case
of the historical sciences, as well as the sciences proper, it is now too late to found a new
error or to discredit an old truth. It may be a few months, possibly a few years, before a
bungled experiment in chemistry or a scamped edition is recognised as such; but inexact results,
though temporarily accepted under reserve, are always sooner or later, and generally very soon,
discovered, denounced, and eliminated. The theory of the operations of external criticism is
now so well established, the number of specialists thoroughly versed in them is now so great
in every country, that, with rare exceptions, descriptive catalogues of documents, editions,
regesta, monographs, are scrutinised, dissected, and judged as soon as they appear. It is well
to be warned. It will for the future be the height of imprudence to risk publishing a work
of erudition without having first done everything possible to make it unassailable; otherwise
it will immediately, or after brief delay, be attacked and demolished. Not knowing this, certain
well-meaning persons still show themselves, from time to time, simple enough to enter the lists
of critical scholarship insufficiently prepared; they are filled with a desire to be useful,
and are apparently convinced that here, as in politics and elsewhere, it is possible to work
by extemporised and approximate methods without any "special knowledge." They are sorry afterwards.
The knowing ones do not take the risk; the tasks of critical scholarship have no seductions
for them, for they are aware that the labour is great and the glory moderate, and that the
field is engrossed by clever specialists not too well disposed towards intruders. They see
plainly there is no room for them here. The blunt uncompromising honesty of the scholars thus
delivers them from undesirable company of a kind which the "historians" proper have still occasionally
to put up with.

Bad workers, in fact, on the hunt for a public less closely critical than the scholars, are
very ready to take refuge in historical exposition. The rules of method are here less obvious,
or, rather, not so well known. While the criticism of texts and sources has been placed on
a scientific basis, historical synthesis is still performed haphazard. Mental confusion, ignorance,
negligence--faults which stand out so clearly in works of critical scholarship--may in historical
works be disguised up to a certain point by literary artifices, and the public at large, which
is not well educated in this respect, is not shocked.[127] In short, there is still, in this
department, a certain chance of impunity. This chance, however, is diminishing, and a day will
come, before so very long, when the superficial writers who make incorrect syntheses will be
treated with as little consideration as is now received by those who show themselves unscrupulous
or unskilful in the technique of preparatory criticism. The works of the most celebrated historians
of the nineteenth century, those who died but yesterday, Augustin Thierry, Ranke, Fustel de
Coulanges, Taine, and others, are already battered and riddled with criticism. The faults of
their methods have already been seen, defined, and condemned.

Those who are insensible to other considerations ought to be moved to honesty in historical
work by the reflection that the time is now past, or nearly so, when it was possible to do
bad work without having to suffer for it.

The object of criticism is to discover what in a document may be accepted as true. Now the
document is only the final result of a long series of operations, on the details of which the
author gives us no information. He had to observe or collect facts, to frame sentences, to
write down words; and these operations, which are perfectly distinct one from another, may
not all have been performed with the same accuracy. It is therefore necessary to analyse the
product of the author's labour in order to distinguish which operations have been incorrectly
performed, and reject their results. Analysis is thus necessary to criticism; all criticism
begins with analysis.

In order to be logically complete, the analysis ought to reconstruct all the operations which
the author must have performed, and to examine them one by one, to see whether each has been
performed correctly. It would be necessary to pass in review all the successive acts by which
the document was produced, from the moment when the author observed the fact which is its subject
up to the movements of his hand by which he traced the letters of the document; or, rather,
it would be necessary to proceed in the opposite direction, step by step, from the movements
of the hand back to the observation. This method would be so long and so tedious that no one
would ever have the time or the patience to apply it.

Internal criticism is not, like external criticism, an instrument used for the mere pleasure
of using it;[130] it yields no immediate satisfaction, because it does not definitively solve
any problem. It is only applied because it is necessary, and its use is restricted to a bare
minimum. The most exacting historian is satisfied with an abridged method which concentrates
all the operations into two groups: (1) the analysis of the contents of the document, and the
positive interpretative criticism which is necessary for ascertaining what the author meant;
(2) the analysis of the conditions under which the document was produced, and its negative
criticism, necessary for the verification of the author's statements. This twofold division
of the labour of criticism is, moreover, only employed by a select few. The natural tendency,
even of historians who work methodically, is to read the text with the object of extracting
information directly from it, without any thought of first ascertaining what exactly was in
the author's mind.[131] This procedure is excusable at most in the case of nineteenth-century
documents, written by men whose language and mode of thought are familiar to us, and then only
when there is not more than one possible interpretation. It becomes dangerous as soon as the
author's habits of language or thought begin to differ from those of the historian who reads
him, or when the meaning of the text is not obvious and indisputable. Whoever, in reading a
text, is not exclusively occupied with the effort to understand it, is sure to read impressions
of his own into it; he is struck by phrases or words in the document which correspond to his
own ideas, or agree with his own a priori notion of the facts; unconsciously he detaches these
phrases or words, and forms out of them an imaginary text which he puts in the place of the
real text of the author.[132]

II. Here, as always in history, method consists in repressing the first impulse. It is necessary
to be penetrated by the principle, sufficiently obvious but often forgotten, that a document
only contains the ideas of the man who wrote it, and to make it a rule to begin by understanding
the text by itself, before asking what can be extracted from it for the purposes of history.
We thus arrive at this general rule of method: the study of every document should begin with
an analysis of its contents, made with the sole aim of determining the real meaning of the author.

This analysis is a preliminary operation, distinct and independent. Experience here, as in
the tasks of critical scholarship,[133] has decided in favour of the system of slips. Each
slip will contain the analysis of a document, of a separate part of a document, or of an episode
in a narrative; the analysis ought to indicate not only the general sense of the text, but
also, as far as possible, the object and views of the author. It will be well to reproduce
verbally any expressions which may seem characteristic of the author's thought. Sometimes it
will be enough to have analysed the text mentally: it is not always necessary to put down in
black and white the whole contents of a document; in such cases we simply enter the points
of which we intend to make use. But against the ever-present danger of substituting one's personal
impressions for the text there is only one real safeguard; it should be made an invariable
rule never on any account to make an extract from a document, or a partial analysis of it,
without having first made a comprehensive analysis[134] of it mentally, if not on paper.

To analyse a document is to discern and isolate all the ideas expressed by the author. Analysis
thus reduces to interpretative criticism.

Interpretation passes through two stages: the first is concerned with the literal, the second
with the real meaning.

III. The determination of the literal meaning of a document is a linguistic operation; accordingly,
Philology (in the narrow sense) has been reckoned among the auxiliary sciences of history.
To understand a text it is first necessary to know the language. But a general knowledge of
the language is not enough. In order to interpret Gregory of Tours, it is not enough to know
Latin in a general way; it is necessary to add a special study of the particular kind of Latin
written by Gregory of Tours.

The natural tendency is to attribute the same meaning to the same word wherever it occurs.
We instinctively treat a language as if it were a fixed system of signs. Fixity, indeed, is
a characteristic of the signs which have been expressly invented for scientific use, such as
algebraical notation or the nomenclature of chemistry. Here every expression has a single precise
meaning, which is absolute and invariable; it expresses an accurately analysed and defined
idea, only one such idea, and that always the same in whatever context the expression may occur,
and by whatever author it may be used. But ordinary language, in which documents are written,
fluctuates: each word expresses a complex and ill-defined idea; its meanings are manifold,
relative, and variable; the same word may stand for several different things, and is used in
different senses by the same author according to the context; lastly, the meaning of a word
varies from author to author, and is modified in the course of time. Vel, which in classical
Latin only has the meanings or and even, means and in certain epochs of the middle ages; suffragium,
which is classical Latin for suffrage, takes in mediæval Latin the sense of help. We have,
then, to learn to resist the instinct which leads us to explain all the expressions of a text
by their classical or ordinary meanings. The grammatical interpretation, based on the general
rules of the language, must be supplemented by an historical interpretation founded on an examination
of the particular case.

The method consists in determining the special meaning of the words in the document; it rests
on a few very simple principles.

(1) Language changes by continuous evolution. Each epoch has a language of its own, which must
be treated as a separate system of signs. In order to understand a document we must know the
language of the time--that is, the meanings of words and forms of expression in use at the
time when the text was written. The meaning of a word is to be determined by bringing together
the passages where it is employed: it will generally be found that in one or other of these
the remainder of the sentence leaves no doubt as to the meaning of the word in question.[135]
Information of this kind is given in historical dictionaries, such as the Thesaurus Linguæ
Latinæ; or the glossaries of Du Cange. In these compilations the article devoted to each word
is a collection of the passages in which the word occurs, accompanied by indications of authorship
which fix the epoch.

When the author wrote in a dead language which he had learnt out of books--this is the case
with the Latin texts of the earlier middle ages--we must be on our guard against words used
in an arbitrary sense, or selected for the sake of elegance: for example, consul (count, earl),
capite census (censitary), agellus (grand domain).

(2) Linguistic usage may vary from one region to another; we have, then, to know the language
of the country where the document was written--that is, the peculiar meanings current in the
country.

(3) Each author has his own manner of writing; we have, then, to study the language of the
author, the peculiar senses in which he used words.[136] This purpose is served by lexicons
to a single author, as Meusel's Lexicon Cæsarianum, in which are brought together all the passages
in which the author used each word.

(4) An expression changes its meaning according to the passage in which it occurs; we must
therefore interpret each word and sentence not as if it stood isolated, but with an eye to
the general sense of the context. This is the rule of context,[137] a fundamental rule of interpretation.
Its meaning is that, before making use of a phrase taken from a text, we must have read the
text in its entirety; it prohibits the stuffing of a modern work with quotations--that is,
shreds of phrases torn from passages without regard to the special sense given to them by the
context.[138]

These rules, if rigorously applied, would constitute an exact method of interpretation which
would hardly leave any chance of error, but would require an enormous expenditure of time.
What an immense amount of labour would be necessary if, in the case of each word, we had to
determine by a special operation its meaning in the language of the time, of the country, of
the author, and in the context! Yet this is the labour demanded by a well-made translation:
in the case of some ancient works of great literary value it has been submitted to; for the
mass of historical documents we content ourselves, in practice, with an abridged method.

All words are not equally subject to variations of meaning; most of them keep a fairly uniform
meaning in all authors and in all periods. We may therefore be satisfied to study specially
those expressions which, from their nature, are liable to take different meanings: first, ready-made
expressions which, being fixed, do not follow the evolution of the words of which they are
composed; secondly, and chiefly, words denoting things which are in their nature subject to
evolution; classes of men (miles, colonus, servus); institutions (conventus, justitia, judex);
usages (alleu, bénéfice, élection); feelings, common objects. In the case of all words of such
classes it would be imprudent to assume a fixed meaning; it is an absolutely necessary precaution
to ascertain what is the sense in which they are used in the text to be interpreted. "These
studies of words," said Fustel de Coulanges, "have a great importance in historical science.
A badly interpreted term may be the source of serious error."[139] And, in fact, simply by
a methodical application of interpretative criticism to a hundred words or so, he succeeded
in revolutionising the study of the Merovingian epoch.

IV. When we have analysed the document and determined the literal meaning of its phrases, we
cannot even yet be sure that we have reached the real thoughts of the author. It is possible
that he may have used some expressions in an oblique sense; there are several kinds of cases
where this occurs: allegory and symbolism, jests and hoaxes, allusion and implication, even
the ordinary figures of speech, metaphor, hyperbole, litotes.[140] In all these cases it is
necessary to pierce through the literal meaning to the real meaning, which the author has purposely
disguised under an inexact form.

Logically the problem is very embarrassing: there is no fixed external criterion by which we
can make sure of detecting an oblique sense; in the case of the hoax, which in the present
century has become a branch of literature, it is an essential part of the author's plan to
leave no indication which would betray the jest. In practice we may be morally certain that
an author is not using an oblique sense wherever his prime object is to be understood; we are
therefore not likely to meet with difficulties of this kind in official documents, in charters,
and in historical narratives. In all these cases the general form of the document permits us
to assume that it is written in the literal sense of the words.

On the other hand, we must be prepared for oblique senses when the author had other interests
than that of being understood, or when he wrote for a public which could understand his allusions
and read between the lines, or when his readers, in virtue of a religious or literary initiation,
might be expected to understand his symbolisms and figures of speech. This is the case with
religious texts, private letters, and all those literary works which form so large a part of
the documents on antiquity. Thus the art of recognising and determining hidden meanings in
texts has always occupied a large space in the theory of hermeneutic[141] (which is Greek for
interpretative criticism), and in the exegesis of the sacred texts and of classical authors.

The different modes of introducing an oblique sense behind the literal sense are too varied,
and depend too much on special circumstances, for it to be possible to reduce the art of detecting
them to definite rules. Only one general principle can be laid down, and that is, that when
the literal sense is absurd, incoherent, or obscure, or in contradiction with the ideas of
the author or the facts known to him, then we ought to presume an oblique sense.

In order to determine this sense, the procedure is the same as for studying the language of
an author: we compare the passages in which the expressions occur in which we suspect an oblique
sense, and look to see whether there is not one where the meaning may be guessed from the context.
A celebrated instance of this procedure is the discovery of the allegorical meaning of the
Beast in the Apocalypse. But as there is no certain method of solving these problems, we never
have a right to say we have discovered all the hidden meanings or seized all the allusions
contained in a text; and even when we think we have found the sense, we shall do well to draw
no inferences from a necessarily conjectural interpretation.

On the other hand, it is necessary to guard against the temptation to look for allegorical
meanings everywhere, as the neo-Platonists did in Plato's works and the Swedenborgians in the
Bible. This attack of hyper-hermeneutic is now over, but we are not yet safe from the analogous
tendency to look for allusions everywhere. Investigations of this kind are always conjectural,
and are better calculated to flatter the vanity of the interpreter than to furnish results
of which history can make use.

