TEXTBOOK EDITION

  THE YALE CHRONICLES
  OF AMERICA SERIES

  ALLEN JOHNSON
  EDITOR

  GERHARD R. LOMER
  CHARLES W. JEFFERYS
  ASSISTANT EDITORS

  WOODROW WILSON
  AND THE WORLD WAR

  A CHRONICLE OF OUR OWN TIMES
  BY CHARLES SEYMOUR
  1921

  TORONTO: GLASGOW, BROOK & CO.
  NEW YORK: UNITED STATES PUBLISHERS
  ASSOCIATION, INC.

  Copyright, 1921, by Yale University Press

  Printed in the United States of America

+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+ |Transcribers note:
In this plain text the breve has been rendered as [)c]| +-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

  CONTENTS

    I. WILSON THE EXECUTIVE                   Page   1

   II. NEUTRALITY                              "    27

  III. THE SUBMARINE                           "    47

   IV. PLOTS AND PREPAREDNESS                  "    71

    V. AMERICA DECIDES                         "    94

   VI. THE NATION IN ARMS                      "   116

  VII. THE HOME FRONT                          "   150

 VIII. THE FIGHTING FRONT                      "   192

   IX. THE PATH TO PEACE                       "   228

    X. WAYS OF THE PEACE CONFERENCE            "   254

   XI. BALANCE OF POWER OR LEAGUE OF NATIONS?  "   281

  XII. THE SETTLEMENT                          "   310

 XIII. THE SENATE AND THE TREATY               "   330

  XIV. CONCLUSION                              "   352

       BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE                    "   361

       INDEX                                   "   367

WOODROW WILSON AND THE WORLD WAR

CHAPTER I

WILSON THE EXECUTIVE

When, on March 4, 1913, Woodrow Wilson entered the White House, the first Democratic president
elected in twenty years, no one could have guessed the importance of the rôle which he was
destined to play. While business men and industrial leaders bewailed the mischance that had
brought into power a man whose attitude towards vested interests was reputed none too friendly,
they looked upon him as a temporary inconvenience. Nor did the increasingly large body of independent
voters, disgusted by the "stand-pattism" of the Republican machine, regard Wilson much more
seriously; rather did they place their confidence in a reinvigoration of the Grand Old Party
through the progressive leadership of Roosevelt, whose enthusiasm and practical vision had
attracted the approval of more than four million voters in the preceding election, despite
his lack of an adequate political organization. Even those who supported Wilson most whole-heartedly
believed that his work would lie entirely within the field of domestic reform; little did they
imagine that he would play a part in world affairs larger than had fallen to any citizen of
the United States since the birth of the country.

The new President was fifty-six years old. His background was primarily academic, a fact which,
together with his Scotch-Irish ancestry, the Presbyterian tradition of his family, and his
early years spent in the South, explains much in his character at the time when he entered
upon the general political stage. After graduating from Princeton in 1879, where his career
gave little indication of extraordinary promise, he studied law, and for a time his shingle
hung out in Atlanta. He seemed unfitted by nature, however, for either pleasure or success
in the practice of the law. Reserved and cold, except with his intimates, he was incapable
of attracting clients in a profession and locality where ability to "mix" was a prime qualification.
A certain lack of tolerance for the failings of his fellow mortals may have combined with his
Presbyterian conscience to disgust him with the hard give-and-take of the struggling lawyer's
life. He sought escape in graduate work in history and politics at Johns Hopkins, where, in
1886, he received his Ph.D. for a thesis entitled Congressional Government, a study remarkable
for clear thinking and felicitous expression. These qualities characterized his work as a professor
at Bryn Mawr and Wesleyan and paved his path to an appointment on the Princeton faculty in
1890, as Professor of Jurisprudence and Politics.

Despite his early distaste to the career of practicing lawyer, Wilson was by no means the man
to bury himself in academic research. He lacked the scrupulous patience and the willingness
to submerge his own personality which are characteristic of the scientific scholar. His gift
was for generalization, and his writings were marked by clarity of thought and wealth of phrase,
rather than by profundity. But such qualities brought him remarkable success as a lecturer
and essayist, and constant practice gave him a fluency, a vocal control, and a power of verbal
expression which assured distinction at the frequent public meetings and dinners where he was
called upon to speak. Professional interest in the science of government furnished him with
topics of far wider import than the ordinary pedagogue cares to handle, and he became, even
as professor, well known outside of Princeton. His influence, already broad in the educational
and not without some recognition in the political world, was extended in 1902, when he was
chosen President of the University.

During the succeeding eight years Wilson enjoyed his first taste of executive power, and certain
traits which he then displayed deserve brief notice. Although a "conservative" in his advocacy
of the maintenance of the old-time curriculum, based upon the ancient languages and mathematics,
and in his opposition to the free elective system, he proved an inflexible reformer as regards
methods of instruction, the efficiency of which he was determined to establish. He showed a
ruthless resolution to eliminate what he looked upon as undemocratic social habits among the
undergraduates, and did not hesitate to cut loose from tradition, regardless of the prejudice
thereby aroused against him. As an executive he evoked intense admiration and virulent dislike;
the Board of Trustees and the alumni body were alike divided between enthusiastic support and
bitter anathematization of the measures he proposed. What seems obvious is that many graduates
sympathized with his purposes but were alienated by his methods. His strength lay chiefly in
the force of his appeal to democratic sentiment; his weakness in complete inability to conciliate
opponents.

At the moment when the issue of the struggle at Princeton was still undecided, opportunity
was given Wilson to enter political life; an ambition for such a career had evidently stirred
him in early days and was doubtless resuscitated by his success as a public speaker. While
President of Princeton he had frequently touched upon public issues, and so early as 1906 Colonel
George Harvey had mentioned him as a possible President of the United States. From that time
he was often considered as available for political office, and in 1910, with New Jersey stirred
by a strong popular movement against boss-rule, he was tendered the nomination for Governor
of that State. He accepted and proved an ideal candidate. Though supported by the Democratic
machine, which planned to elect a reformer and then control him, Wilson won the adherence of
independents and progressive Republicans by his promise to break the power of the boss system,
and by the clarity of his plans for reform. His appeals to the spirit of democracy and morality,
while they voiced nothing new in an electoral campaign, rang with unusual strength and sincerity.
The State, which had gone Republican by eighty-two thousand two years before, now elected Wilson
its Governor by a plurality of forty-nine thousand.

He retained office in New Jersey for only two years. During that period he achieved a high
degree of success. Had he served longer it is impossible to say what might have been his ultimate
position, for as at Princeton, elements of opposition had begun to coalesce against him and
he had found no means to disarm them. As Governor, he at once declared himself head of the
party and by a display of firm activity dominated the machine. The Democratic boss, Senator
James Smith, was sternly enjoined from seeking reëlection to the Senate, and when, in defiance
of promises and the wish of the voters as expressed at the primaries, he attempted to run,
Wilson entered the lists and so influenced public opinion and the Legislature that the head
of the machine received only four votes. Attempts of the Democratic machine to combine with
the Republicans, in order to nullify the reforms which Wilson had promised in his campaign,
proved equally futile. With strong popular support, constantly exercising his influence both
in party conferences and on the Legislature, the Governor was able to translate into law the
most important of the measures demanded by the progressives. He himself summed up the essence
of the situation when he said: "The moment the forces in New Jersey that had resisted reform
realized that the people were backing new men who meant what they had said, they realized that
they dare not resist them. It was not the personal force of the new officials; it was the moral
strength of their backing that accomplished the extraordinary result." Supreme confidence in
the force of public opinion exerted by the common man characterizes much of Wilson's political
philosophy, and the position in the world which he was to enjoy for some months towards the
end of the war rested upon the same basis.

In 1912 came the presidential election. The split in the Republican forces promised if it did
not absolutely guarantee the election of a Democrat, and when the party convention met at Baltimore
in June, excitement was more than ordinarily intense. The conservative elements in the party
were divided. The radicals looked to Bryan for leadership, although his nomination seemed out
of the question. Wilson had stamped himself as an anti-machine progressive, and if the machine
conservatives threatened he might hope for support from the Nebraskan orator. From the first
the real contest appeared to be between Wilson and Champ Clark, who although hardly a conservative,
was backed for the moment by the machine leaders. The deciding power was in Bryan's hand, and
as the strife between conservatives and radicals waxed hot, he turned to the support of Wilson.
On the forty-sixth ballot Wilson was nominated. With division in the Republican ranks, with
his record in New Jersey for legislative accomplishment, and winning many independent votes
through a succession of effective campaign speeches, Wilson more than fulfilled the highest
of Democratic hopes. He received on election day only a minority of all the votes cast, but
his majority in the electoral college was overwhelming.

       *       *       *       *       *

