Transcriber's Note

Spelling and punctuation have been preserved as faithfully as possible. Only obvious typographical
errors have been corrected.

For ease of reading, the footnotes have been moved to the end of the book.

                       A DISCOURSE

                            ON

                         THE STUDY

                          OF THE

                 LAW OF NATURE AND NATIONS.

                            BY

                 SIR JAMES MACKINTOSH, M.P.

                     SECOND EDITION.

                          LONDON:
                     HENRY GOODE AND CO.

            QUEEN'S HEAD PASSAGE, PATERNOSTER-ROW.

   SOLD BY T. CLARK, EDINBURGH; AND WARDLAW AND CO. GLASGOW.

                       M.DCCC.XXVIII.

                        A DISCOURSE,

                            ETC.

                  *     *     *     *     *

Before I begin a course of lectures on a science of great extent and importance, I think it
my duty to lay before the public the reasons which have induced me to undertake such a labour,
as well as a short account of the nature and objects of the course which I propose to deliver.
I have always been unwilling to waste in unprofitable inactivity that leisure which the first
years of my profession usually allow, and which diligent men, even with moderate talents, might
often employ in a manner neither discreditable to themselves, nor wholly useless to others.
Desirous that my own leisure should not be consumed in sloth, I anxiously looked about for
some way of filling it up, which might enable me, according to the measure of my humble abilities,
to contribute somewhat to the stock of general usefulness. I had long been convinced that public
lectures, which have been used in most ages and countries to teach the elements of almost every
part of learning, were the most convenient mode in which these elements could be taught; that
they were the best adapted for the important purposes of awakening the attention of the student,
of abridging his labours, of guiding his inquiries, of relieving the tediousness of private
study, and of impressing on his recollection the principles of science. I saw no reason why
the Law of England should be less adapted to this mode of instruction, or less likely to benefit
by it, than any other part of knowledge. A learned gentleman, however, had already occupied
that ground,[1] and will, I doubt not, persevere in the useful labour which he has undertaken.
On his province it was far from my wish to intrude. It appeared to me that a course of lectures
on another science closely connected with all liberal professional studies, and which had long
been the subject of my own reading and reflection, might not only prove a most useful introduction
to the law of England, but might also become an interesting part of general study, and an important
branch of the education of those who were not destined for the profession of the law. I was
confirmed in my opinion by the assent and approbation of men, whose names, if it were becoming
to mention them on so slight an occasion, would add authority to truth, and furnish some excuse
even for error. Encouraged by their approbation, I resolved without delay to commence the undertaking,
of which I shall now proceed to give some account; without interrupting the progress of my
discourse by anticipating or answering the remarks of those who may, perhaps, sneer at me for
a departure from the usual course of my profession; because I am desirous of employing in a
rational and useful pursuit that leisure, of which the same men would have required no account,
if it had been wasted on trifles, or even abused in dissipation.

The science which teaches the rights and duties of men and of states, has, in modern times,
been called the Law of Nature and Nations. Under this comprehensive title are included the
rules of morality, as they prescribe the conduct of private men towards each other in all the
various relations of human life; as they regulate both the obedience of citizens to the laws,
and the authority of the magistrate in framing laws and administering government; as they modify
the intercourse of independent commonwealths in peace, and prescribe limits to their hostility
in war. This important science comprehends only that part of private ethics which is capable
of being reduced to fixed and general rules. It considers only those general principles of
jurisprudence and politics which the wisdom of the lawgiver adapts to the peculiar situation
of his own country, and which the skill of the statesman applies to the more fluctuating and
infinitely varying circumstances which affect its immediate welfare and safety. Works, vol.
i. p. 101.

On the great questions of morality, of politics, and of municipal law, it is the object of
this science to deliver only those fundamental truths of which the particular application is
as extensive as the whole private and public conduct of men; to discover those "fountains of
justice," without pursuing the "streams" through the endless variety of their course. But another
part of the subject is treated with greater fulness and minuteness of application; namely,
that important branch of it which professes to regulate the relations and intercourse of states,
and more especially, both on account of their greater perfection and their more immediate reference
to use, the regulations of that intercourse as they are modified by the usages of the civilised
nations of Christendom. Here this science no longer rests in general principles. That province
of it which we now call the law of nations, has, in many of its parts, acquired among our European
nations much of the precision and certainty of positive law, and the particulars of that law
are chiefly to be found in the works of those writers who have treated the science of which
I now speak. It is because they have classed (in a manner which seems peculiar to modern times)
the duties of individuals with those of nations, and established their obligation on similar
grounds, that the whole science has been called, "The Law of Nature and Nations."

Whether this appellation be the happiest that could have been chosen for the science, and by
what steps it came to be adopted among our modern moralists and lawyers,[3] are inquiries,
perhaps, of more curiosity than use, and which, if they deserve any where to be deeply pursued,
will be pursued with more propriety in a full examination of the subject than within the short
limits of an introductory discourse. Names are, however, in a great measure arbitrary; but
the distribution of knowledge into its parts, though it may often perhaps be varied with little
disadvantage, yet certainly depends upon some fixed principles. The modern method of considering
individual and national morality as the subjects of the same science, seems to me as convenient
and reasonable an arrangement as can be adopted. The same rules of morality which hold together
men in families, and which form families into commonwealths, also link together these commonwealths
as members of the great society of mankind. Commonwealths, as well as private men, are liable
to injury, and capable of benefit, from each other; it is, therefore, their interest as well
as their duty to reverence, to practise, and to enforce those rules of justice which control
and restrain injury, which regulate and augment benefit, which, even in their present imperfect
observance, preserve civilised states in a tolerable condition of security from wrong, and
which, if they could be generally obeyed, would establish, and permanently maintain, the well-being
of the universal commonwealth of the human race. It is therefore with justice that one part
of this science has been called "the natural law of individuals," and the other "the natural
law of states;" and it is too obvious to require observation,[4] that the application of both
these laws, of the former as much as of the latter, is modified and varied by customs, conventions,
character, and situation. With a view to these principles, the writers on general jurisprudence
have considered states as moral persons; a mode of expression which has been called a fiction
of law, but which may be regarded with more propriety as a bold metaphor, used to convey the
important truth, that nations, though they acknowledge no common superior, and neither can
nor ought to be subjected to human punishment, are yet under the same obligations mutually
to practise honesty and humanity, which would have bound individuals, even if they could be
conceived ever to have subsisted without the protecting restraints of government; if they were
not compelled to the discharge of their duty by the just authority of magistrates, and by the
wholesome terrors of the laws. With the same views this law has been styled, and (notwithstanding
the objections of some writers to the vagueness of the language) appears to have been styled
with great propriety, "the law of nature." It may with sufficient correctness, or at least
by an easy metaphor, be called a "law," inasmuch as it is a supreme, invariable, and uncontrollable
rule of conduct to all men, of which the violation is avenged by natural punishments, which
necessarily flow from the constitution of things, and are as fixed and inevitable as the order
of nature. It is the "law of nature," because its general precepts are essentially adapted
to promote the happiness of man, as long as he remains a being of the same nature with which
he is at present endowed, or, in other words, as long as he continues to be man, in all the
variety of times, places, and circumstances, in which he has been known, or can be imagined
to exist; because it is discoverable by natural reason, and suitable to our natural constitution;
because its fitness and wisdom are founded on the general nature of human beings, and not on
any of those temporary and accidental situations in which they may be placed. It is with still
more propriety, and indeed with the highest strictness, and the most perfect accuracy, considered
as a law, when, according to those just and magnificent views which philosophy and religion
open to us of the government of the world, it is received and reverenced as the sacred code,
promulgated by the great Legislator of the Universe for the guidance of his creatures to happiness,
guarded and enforced, as our own experience may inform us, by the penal sanctions of shame,
of remorse, of infamy, and of misery; and still farther enforced by the reasonable expectation
of yet more awful penalties in a future and more permanent state of existence. It is the contemplation
of the law of nature under this full, mature, and perfect idea of its high origin and transcendent
dignity, that called forth the enthusiasm of the greatest men, and the greatest writers of
ancient and modern times, in those sublime descriptions, where they have exhausted all the
powers of language, and surpassed all the other exertions, even of their own eloquence, in
the display of the beauty and majesty of this sovereign and immutable law. Pol. book i. in
the conclusion.

Let not those, who, to use the language of the same Hooker, "talk of truth," without "ever
sounding the depth from whence it springeth," hastily take it for granted, that these great
masters of eloquence and reason were led astray by the specious delusions of mysticism, from
the sober consideration of the true grounds of morality in the nature, necessities, and interests
of man. They studied and taught the principles of morals; but they thought it still more necessary,
and more wise, a much nobler task, and more becoming a true philosopher, to inspire men with
a love and reverence for virtue.[6] They were not contented with elementary speculations. They
examined the foundations of our duty, but they felt and cherished a most natural, a most seemly,
a most rational enthusiasm, when they contemplated the majestic edifice which is reared on
these solid foundations. They devoted the highest exertions of their mind to spread that beneficent
enthusiasm among men. They consecrated as a homage to virtue the most perfect fruits of their
genius. If these grand sentiments of "the good and fair" have sometimes prevented them from
delivering the principles of ethics with the nakedness and dryness of science, at least, we
must own that they have chosen the better part; that they have preferred virtuous feeling to
moral theory; and practical benefit to speculative exactness. Perhaps these wise men may have
supposed that the minute dissection and anatomy of Virtue might, to the ill-judging eye, weaken
the charm of her beauty. It is not for me to attempt a theme which has perhaps been exhausted
by these great writers. I am indeed much less called upon to display the worth and usefulness
of the law of nations, than to vindicate myself from presumption in attempting a subject which
has been already handled by so many masters. For the purpose of that vindication it will be
necessary to sketch a very short and slight account (for such in this place it must unavoidably
be) of the progress and present state of the science, and of that succession of able writers
who have gradually brought it to its present perfection.

We have no Greek or Roman treatise remaining on the law of nations. From the title of one of
the lost works of Aristotle, it appears that he composed a treatise on the laws of war,[7]
which, if we had the good fortune to possess it, would doubtless have amply satisfied our curiosity,
and would have taught us both the practice of the ancient nations and the opinions of their
moralists, with that depth and precision which distinguish the other works of that great philosopher.
We can now only imperfectly collect that practice and those opinions from various passages
which are scattered over the writings of philosophers, historians, poets, and orators. When
the time shall arrive for a more full consideration of the state of the government and manners
of the ancient world, I shall be able, perhaps, to offer satisfactory reasons why these enlightened
nations did not separate from the general province of ethics that part of morality which regulates
the intercourse of states, and erect it into an independent science. It would require a long
discussion to unfold the various causes which united the modern nations of Europe into a closer
society; which linked them together by the firmest bands of mutual dependence, and which thus,
in process of time, gave to the law that regulated their intercourse greater importance, higher
improvement, and more binding force. Among these causes we may enumerate a common extraction,
a common religion, similar manners, institutions, and languages; in earlier ages the authority
of the See of Rome, and the extravagant claims of the imperial crown; in later times the connexions
of trade, the jealousy of power, the refinement of civilization, the cultivation of science,
and, above all, that general mildness of character and manners which arose from the combined
and progressive influence of chivalry, of commerce, of learning, and of religion. Nor must
we omit the similarity of those political institutions which, in every country that had been
over-run by the Gothic conquerors, bore discernible marks (which the revolutions of succeeding
ages had obscured, but not obliterated) of the rude but bold and noble outline of liberty that
was originally sketched by the hand of these generous barbarians. These and many other causes
conspired to unite the nations of Europe in a more intimate connexion and a more constant intercourse,
and of consequence made the regulation of their intercourse more necessary, and the law that
was to govern it more important. In proportion as they approached to the condition of provinces
of the same empire, it became almost as essential that Europe should have a precise and comprehensive
code of the law of nations, as that each country should have a system of municipal law. The
labours of the learned accordingly began to be directed to this subject in the sixteenth century,
soon after the revival of learning, and after that regular distribution of power and territory
which has subsisted, with little variation, until our times. The critical examination of these
early writers would perhaps not be very interesting in an extensive work, and it would be unpardonable
in a short discourse. It is sufficient to observe that they were all more or less shackled
by the barbarous philosophy of the schools, and that they were impeded in their progress by
a timorous deference for the inferior and technical parts of the Roman law, without raising
their views to the comprehensive principles which will for ever inspire mankind with veneration
for that grand monument of human wisdom. It was only indeed in the sixteenth century that the
Roman law was first studied and understood as a science connected with Roman history and literature,
and illustrated by men whom Ulpian and Papinian would not have disdained to acknowledge as
their successors.[8] Among the writers of that age we may perceive the ineffectual attempts,
the partial advances, the occasional streaks of light which always precede great discoveries,
and works that are to instruct posterity.

The reduction of the law of nations to a system was reserved for Grotius. It was by the advice
of Lord Bacon and Peiresc that he undertook this arduous task. He produced a work which we
now indeed justly deem imperfect, but which is perhaps the most complete that the world has
yet owed, at so early a stage in the progress of any science, to the genius and learning of
one man. So great is the uncertainty of posthumous reputation, and so liable is the fame even
of the greatest men to be obscured by those new fashions of thinking and writing which succeed
each other so rapidly among polished nations, that Grotius, who filled so large a space in
the eye of his contemporaries, is now perhaps known to some of my readers only by name. Yet
if we fairly estimate both his endowments and his virtues, we may justly consider him as one
of the most memorable men who have done honour to modern times. He combined the discharge of
the most important duties of active and public life with the attainment of that exact and various
learning which is generally the portion only of the recluse student. He was distinguished as
an advocate and a magistrate, and he composed the most valuable works on the law of his own
country; he was almost equally celebrated as an historian, a scholar, a poet, and a divine;
a disinterested statesman, a philosophical lawyer, a patriot who united moderation with firmness,
and a theologian who was taught candour by his learning. Unmerited exile did not damp his patriotism;
the bitterness of controversy did not extinguish his charity. The sagacity of his numerous
and fierce adversaries could not discover a blot on his character; and in the midst of all
the hard trials and galling provocations of a turbulent political life, he never once deserted
his friends when they were unfortunate, nor insulted his enemies when they were weak. In times
of the most furious civil and religious faction he preserved his name unspotted, and he knew
how to reconcile fidelity to his own party, with moderation towards his opponents. Such was
the man who was destined to give a new form to the law of nations, or rather to create a science,
of which only rude sketches and indigested materials were scattered over the writings of those
who had gone before him. Without the genius of his master, and with very inferior learning,
he has yet treated this subject with sound sense, with clear method, with extensive and accurate
knowledge, and with a copiousness of detail sometimes indeed tedious, but always instructive
and satisfactory. His work will be always studied by those who spare no labour to acquire a
deep knowledge of the subject; but it will, in our times, I fear, be oftener found on the shelf
than on the desk of the general student. In the time of Mr. Locke it was considered as the
manual of those who were intended for active life; but in the present age I believe it will
be found that men of business are too much occupied, men of letters are too fastidious, and
men of the world too indolent, for the study or even the perusal of such works. Far be it from
me to derogate from the real and great merit of so useful a writer as Puffendorff. His treatise
is a mine in which all his successors must dig. I only presume to suggest, that a book so prolix,
and so utterly void of all the attractions of composition, is likely to repel many readers
who are interested, and who might perhaps be disposed to acquire some knowledge of the principles
of public law.

Many other circumstances might be mentioned, which conspire to prove that neither of the great
works of which I have spoken, has superseded the necessity of a new attempt to lay before the
public a System of the Law of Nations. The language of science is so completely changed since
both these works were written, that whoever was now to employ their terms in his moral reasonings
would be almost unintelligible to some of his hearers or readers; and to some among them too
who are neither ill qualified nor ill disposed to study such subjects with considerable advantage
to themselves. The learned indeed well know how little novelty or variety is to be found in
scientific disputes. The same truths and the same errors have been repeated from age to age,
with little variation but in the language; and novelty of expression is often mistaken by the
ignorant for substantial discovery. Perhaps too very nearly the same portion of genius and
judgment has been exerted in most of the various forms under which science has been cultivated
at different periods of history. The superiority of those writers who continue to be read,
perhaps often consists chiefly in taste, in prudence, in a happy choice of subject, in a favourable
moment, in an agreeable style, in the good fortune of a prevalent language, or in other advantages
which are either accidental, or are the result rather of the secondary than of the highest
faculties of the mind.--But these reflections, while they moderate the pride of invention,
and dispel the extravagant conceit of superior illumination, yet serve to prove the use, and
indeed the necessity, of composing, from time to time, new systems of science adapted to the
opinions and language of each succeeding period. Every age must be taught in its own language.
If a man were now to begin a discourse on ethics with an account of the "moral entities" of
Puffendorff,[12] he would speak an unknown tongue.

It is not, however, alone as a mere translation of former writers into modern language that
a new system of public law seems likely to be useful. The age in which we live possesses many
advantages which are peculiarly favourable to such an undertaking. Since the composition of
the great works of Grotius and Puffendorff, a more modest, simple, and intelligible philosophy
has been introduced into the schools; which has indeed been grossly abused by sophists, but
which, from the time of Locke, has been cultivated and improved by a succession of disciples
worthy of their illustrious master. We are thus enabled to discuss with precision, and to explain
with clearness, the principles of the science of human nature, which are in themselves on a
level with the capacity of every man of good sense, and which only appeared to be abstruse
from the unprofitable subtleties with which they were loaded, and the barbarous jargon in which
they were expressed. The deepest doctrines of morality have since that time been treated in
the perspicuous and popular style, and with some degree of the beauty and eloquence of the
ancient moralists. That philosophy on which are founded the principles of our duty, if it has
not become more certain (for morality admits no discoveries), is at least less "harsh and crabbed,"
less obscure and haughty in its language, less forbidding and disgusting in its appearance,
than in the days of our ancestors. If this progress of learning towards popularity has engendered
(as it must be owned that it has) a multitude of superficial and most mischievous sciolists,
the antidote must come from the same quarter with the disease. Popular reason can alone correct
popular sophistry.

Nor is this the only advantage which a writer of the present age would possess over the celebrated
jurists of the last century. Since that time vast additions have been made to the stock of
our knowledge of human nature. Many dark periods of history have since been explored. Many
hitherto unknown regions of the globe have been visited and described by travellers and navigators
not less intelligent than intrepid. We may be said to stand at the confluence of the greatest
number of streams of knowledge flowing from the most distant sources that ever met at one point.
We are not confined, as the learned of the last age generally were, to the history of those
renowned nations who are our masters in literature. We can bring before us man in a lower and
more abject condition than any in which he was ever before seen. The records have been partly
opened to us of those mighty empires of Asia[13] where the beginnings of civilization are lost
in the darkness of an unfathomable antiquity. We can make human society pass in review before
our mind, from the brutal and helpless barbarism of Terra del Fuego, and the mild and voluptuous
savages of Otaheite, to the tame, but ancient and immovable civilization of China, which bestows
its own arts on every successive race of conquerors; to the meek and servile natives of Hindostan,
who preserve their ingenuity, their skill, and their science, through a long series of ages,
under the yoke of foreign tyrants; to the gross and incorrigible rudeness of the Ottomans,
incapable of improvement, and extinguishing the remains of civilization among their unhappy
subjects, once the most ingenious nations of the earth. We can examine almost every imaginable
variety in the character, manners, opinions, feelings, prejudices, and institutions of mankind,
into which they can be thrown, either by the rudeness of barbarism, or by the capricious corruptions
of refinement, or by those innumerable combinations of circumstances, which, both in these
opposite conditions and in all the intermediate stages between them, influence or direct the
course of human affairs. History, if I may be allowed the expression, is now a vast museum,
in which specimens of every variety of human nature may be studied. From these great accessions
to knowledge, law-givers and statesmen, but, above all, moralists and political philosophers,
may reap the most important instruction. They may plainly discover in all the useful and beautiful
variety of governments and institutions, and under all the fantastic multitude of usages and
rites which have prevailed among men, the same fundamental, comprehensive truths, the sacred
master-principles which are the guardians of human society, recognised and revered (with few
and slight exceptions) by every nation upon earth, and uniformly taught (with still fewer exceptions)
by a succession of wise men from the first dawn of speculation to the present moment. The exceptions,
few as they are, will, on more reflection, be found rather apparent than real. If we could
raise ourselves to that height from which we ought to survey so vast a subject, these exceptions
would altogether vanish; the brutality of a handful of savages would disappear in the immense
prospect of human nature, and the murmurs of a few licentious sophists would not ascend to
break the general harmony. This consent of mankind in first principles, and this endless variety
in their application, which is one among many valuable truths which we may collect from our
present extensive acquaintance with the history of man, is itself of vast importance. Much
of the majesty and authority of virtue is derived from their consent, and almost the whole
of practical wisdom is founded on their variety.

What former age could have supplied facts for such a work as that of Montesquieu? He indeed
has been, perhaps justly, charged with abusing this advantage, by the undistinguishing adoption
of the narratives of travellers of very different degrees of accuracy and veracity. But if
we reluctantly confess the justness of this objection; if we are compelled to own that he exaggerates
the influence of climate, that he ascribes too much to the foresight and forming skill of legislators,
and far too little to time and circumstances, in the growth of political constitutions; that
the substantial character and essential differences of governments are often lost and confounded
in his technical language and arrangement; that he often bends the free and irregular outline
of nature to the imposing but fallacious geometrical regularity of system; that he has chosen
a style of affected abruptness, sententiousness, and vivacity, ill suited to the gravity of
his subject: after all these concessions (for his fame is large enough to spare many concessions),
the Spirit of Laws will still remain not only one of the most solid and durable monuments of
the powers of the human mind, but a striking evidence of the inestimable advantages which political
philosophy may receive from a wide survey of all the various conditions of human society.

In the present century a slow and silent, but very substantial mitigation has taken place in
the practice of war; and in proportion as that mitigated practice has received the sanction
of time, it is raised from the rank of mere usage, and becomes part of the law of nations.
Whoever will compare our present modes of warfare with the system of Grotius[14] will clearly
discern the immense improvements which have taken place in that respect since the publication
of his work, during a period, perhaps in every point of view, the happiest to be found in the
history of the world. In the same period many important points of public law have been the
subject of contest both by argument and by arms, of which we find either no mention, or very
obscure traces, in the history of preceding times.

There are other circumstances to which I allude with hesitation and reluctance, though it must
be owned that they afford to a writer of this age some degree of unfortunate and deplorable
advantage over his predecessors. Recent events have accumulated more terrible practical instruction
on every subject of politics than could have been in other times acquired by the experience
of ages. Men's wit, sharpened by their passions, has penetrated to the bottom of almost all
political questions. Even the fundamental rules of morality themselves have, for the first
time, unfortunately for mankind, become the subject of doubt and discussion. I shall consider
it as my duty to abstain from all mention of these awful events, and of these fatal controversies.
But the mind of that man must indeed be incurious and indocile, who has either overlooked all
these things; or reaped no instruction from the contemplation of them.

From these reflections it appears, that, since the composition of those two great works on
the Law of Nature and Nations which continue to be the classical and standard works on that
subject, we have gained both more convenient instruments of reasoning and more extensive materials
for science; that the code of war has been enlarged and improved; that new questions have been
practically decided; and that new controversies have arisen regarding the intercourse of independent
states, and the first principles of morality and civil government.

Some readers may, however, think that in these observations which I offer, to excuse the presumption
of my own attempt, I have omitted the mention of later writers, to whom some part of the remarks
is not justly applicable. But, perhaps, further consideration will acquit me in the judgment
of such readers. Writers on particular questions of public law are not within the scope of
my observations. They have furnished the most valuable materials; but I speak only of a system.
To the large work of Wolffius, the observations which I have made on Puffendorff as a book
for general use, will surely apply with tenfold force. His abridger, Vattel, deserves, indeed,
considerable praise. He is a very ingenious, clear, elegant, and useful writer. But he only
considers one part of this extensive subject, namely, the law of nations strictly so called;
and I cannot help thinking, that, even in this department of the science, he has adopted some
doubtful and dangerous principles, not to mention his constant deficiency in that fulness of
example and illustration, which so much embellishes and strengthens reason. It is hardly necessary
to take any notice of the text-book of Heineccius, the best writer of elementary books with
whom I am acquainted on any subject. Burlamaqui is an author of superior merit; but he confines
himself too much to the general principles of morality and politics, to require much observation
from me in this place. The same reason will excuse me for passing over in silence the works
of many philosophers and moralists, to whom, in the course of my proposed lectures, I shall
owe and confess the greatest obligations; and it might perhaps deliver me from the necessity
of speaking of the work of Dr. Paley, if I were not desirous of this public opportunity of
professing my gratitude for the instruction and pleasure which I have received from that excellent
writer, who possesses, in so eminent a degree, those invaluable qualities of a moralist, good
sense, caution, sobriety, and perpetual reference to convenience and practice; and who certainly
is thought less original than he really is, merely because his taste and modesty have led him
to disdain the ostentation of novelty, and because he generally employs more art to blend his
own arguments with the body of received opinions, so as that they are scarce to be distinguished,
than other men, in the pursuit of a transient popularity, have exerted to disguise the most
miserable common-places in the shape of paradox.

No writer since the time of Grotius, of Puffendorff, and of Wolf, has combined an investigation
of the principles of natural and public law, with a full application of these principles to
particular cases; and in these circumstances, I trust, it will not be deemed extravagant presumption
in me to hope that I shall be able to exhibit a view of this science, which shall, at least,
be more intelligible and attractive to students, than the learned treatises of these celebrated
men. I shall now proceed to state the general plan and subjects of the lectures in which I
am to make this attempt.

I. The being whose actions the law of nature professes to regulate, is man. It is on the knowledge
of his nature that the science of his duty must be founded.[15] It is impossible to approach
the threshold of moral philosophy, without a previous examination of the faculties and habits
of the human mind. Let no reader be repelled from this examination, by the odious and terrible
name of metaphysics; for it is, in truth, nothing more than the employment of good sense, in
observing our own thoughts, feelings, and actions; and when the facts which are thus observed,
are expressed as they ought to be, in plain language, it is, perhaps, above all other sciences,
most on a level with the capacity and information of the generality of thinking men. When it
is thus expressed, it requires no previous qualification, but a sound judgment, perfectly to
comprehend it; and those who wrap it up in a technical and mysterious jargon, always give us
strong reason to suspect that they are not philosophers but impostors. Whoever thoroughly understands
such a science, must be able to teach it plainly to all men of common sense. The proposed course
will therefore open with a very short, and, I hope, a very simple and intelligible account
of the powers and operations of the human mind. By this plain statement of facts, it will not
be difficult to decide many celebrated, though frivolous, and merely verbal controversies,
which have long amused the leisure of the schools, and which owe both their fame and their
existence to the ambiguous obscurity of scholastic language. It will, for example, only require
an appeal to every man's experience, to prove that we often act purely from a regard to the
happiness of others, and are therefore social beings; and it is not necessary to be a consummate
judge of the deceptions of language, to despise the sophistical trifler, who tells us, that,
because we experience a gratification in our benevolent actions, we are therefore exclusively
and uniformly selfish. A correct examination of facts will lead us to discover that quality
which is common to all virtuous actions, and which distinguishes them from those which are
vicious and criminal. But we shall see that it is necessary for man to be governed not by his
own transient and hasty opinion upon the tendency of every particular action, but by those
fixed and unalterable rules, which are the joint result of the impartial judgment, the natural
feelings, and the embodied experience of mankind. The authority of these rules is, indeed,
founded only on their tendency to promote private and public welfare; but the morality of actions
will appear solely to consist in their correspondence with the rule. By the help of this obvious
distinction we shall vindicate a just theory, which, far from being modern, is, in fact, as
ancient as philosophy, both from plausible objections, and from the odious imputation of supporting
those absurd and monstrous systems which have been built upon it. Beneficial tendency is the
foundation of rules, and the criterion by which habits and sentiments are to be tried. But
it is neither the immediate standard, nor can it ever be the principal motive of action. An
action, to be completely virtuous, must accord with moral rules, and must flow from our natural
feelings and affections, moderated, matured, and improved into steady habits of right conduct.[16]
Without, however, dwelling longer on subjects which cannot be clearly stated, unless they are
fully unfolded, I content myself with observing, that it shall be my object, in this preliminary,
but most important part of the course, to lay the foundations of morality so deeply in human
nature, as may satisfy the coldest inquirer; and, at the same time, to vindicate the paramount
authority of the rules of our duty, at all times, and in all places, over all opinions of interest
and speculations of benefit, so extensively, so universally, and so inviolably, as may well
justify the grandest and the most apparently extravagant effusions of moral enthusiasm. If,
notwithstanding all my endeavours to deliver these doctrines with the utmost simplicity, any
of my auditors should still reproach me for introducing such abstruse matters, I must shelter
myself behind the authority of the wisest of men. Dign. and Adv. of Learn. book ii. What Lord
Bacon desired for the mere gratification of scientific curiosity, the welfare of mankind now
imperiously demands. Shallow systems of metaphysics have given birth to a brood of abominable
and pestilential paradoxes, which nothing but a more profound philosophy can destroy. However
we may, perhaps, lament the necessity of discussions which may shake the habitual reverence
of some men for those rules which it is the chief interest of all men to practise, we have
now no choice left. We must either dispute, or abandon the ground. Undistinguishing and unmerited
invectives against philosophy, will only harden sophists and their disciples in the insolent
conceit, that they are in possession of an undisputed superiority of reason; and that their
antagonists have no arms to employ against them, but those of popular declamation. Let us not
for a moment even appear to suppose, that philosophical truth and human happiness are so irreconcilably
at variance. I cannot express my opinion on this subject so well as in the words of a most
valuable, though generally neglected writer: "The science of abstruse learning, when completely
attained, is like Achilles's spear, that healed the wounds it had made before; so this knowledge
serves to repair the damage itself had occasioned, and this perhaps is all it is good for;
it casts no additional light upon the paths of life, but disperses the clouds with which it
had overspread them before; it advances not the traveller one step in his journey, but conducts
him back again to the spot from whence he wandered. Thus the land of Philosophy consists partly
of an open champaign country, passable by every common understanding, and partly of a range
of woods, traversable only by the speculative, and where they too frequently delight to amuse
themselves. Since then we shall be obliged to make incursions into this latter tract, and shall
probably find it a region of obscurity, danger, and difficulty, it behoves us to use our utmost
endeavours for enlightening and smoothing the way before us."[17] We shall, however, remain
in the forest only long enough to visit the fountains of those streams which flow from it,
and which water and fertilise the cultivated region of Morals, to become acquainted with the
modes of warfare practised by its savage inhabitants, and to learn the means of guarding our
fair and fruitful land against their desolating incursions. I shall hasten from speculations,
to which I am naturally, perhaps, but too prone, and proceed to the more profitable consideration
of our practical duty.

II. The first and most simple part of ethics is that which regards the duties of private men
towards each other, when they are considered apart from the sanction of positive laws. I say,
apart from that sanction, not antecedent to it; for though we separate private from political
duties for the sake of greater clearness and order in reasoning, yet we are not to be so deluded
by this mere arrangement of convenience as to suppose that human society ever has subsisted,
or ever could subsist, without being protected by government and bound together by laws. All
these relative duties of private life have been so copiously and beautifully treated by the
moralists of antiquity, that few men will now choose to follow them who are not actuated by
the wild ambition of equalling Aristotle in precision, or rivalling Cicero in eloquence. They
have been also admirably treated by modern moralists, among whom it would be gross injustice
not to number many of the preachers of the Christian religion, whose peculiar character is
that spirit of universal charity, which is the living principle of all our social duties.

On a subject which has been so exhausted, I should naturally have contented myself with the
most slight and general survey, if some fundamental principles had not of late been brought
into question, which, in all former times, have been deemed too evident to require the support
of argument, and almost too sacred to admit the liberty of discussion. I shall here endeavour
to strengthen some parts of the fortifications of morality which have hitherto been neglected,
because no man had ever been hardy enough to attack them. Almost all the relative duties of
human life will be found more immediately, or more remotely, to arise out of the two great
institutions of property and marriage. They constitute, preserve, and improve society. Upon
their gradual improvement depends the progressive civilization of mankind; on them rests the
whole order of civil life. We are told by Horace, that the first efforts of lawgivers to civilise
men consisted in strengthening and regulating these institutions, and fencing them round with
rigorous penal laws.

    Oppida coeperunt munire et ponere leges
    Neu quis fur esset, neu quis latro, neu quis adulter.

                                        1 Serm. iii. 105.

A celebrated ancient orator, of whose poems we have but a few fragments remaining, has well
described the progressive order in which human society is gradually led to its highest improvements
under the guardianship of those laws which secure property and regulate marriage.

    Et leges sanctas docuit, et chara jugavit
    Corpora conjugiis; et magnas condidit urbes.

                                      Frag. C. Licin. Calvi.

These two great institutions convert the selfish as well as the social passions of our nature
into the firmest bands of a peaceable and orderly intercourse; they change the sources of discord
into principles of quiet; they discipline the most ungovernable, they refine the grossest,
and they exalt the most sordid propensities; so that they become the perpetual fountain of
all that strengthens, and preserves, and adorns society; they sustain the individual, and they
perpetuate the race. Around these institutions all our social duties will be found at various
distances to range themselves; some more near, obviously essential to the good order of human
life, others more remote, and of which the necessity is not at first view so apparent; and
some so distant, that their importance has been sometimes doubted, though upon more mature
consideration they will be found to be outposts and advanced guards of these fundamental principles:
that man should securely enjoy the fruits of his labour, and that the society of the sexes
should be so wisely ordered as to make it a school of the kind affections, and a fit nursery
for the commonwealth.

The subject of property is of great extent. It will be necessary to establish the foundation
of the rights of acquisition, alienation, and transmission, not in imaginary contracts or a
pretended state of nature, but in their subserviency to the subsistence and well-being of mankind.
It will not only be curious, but useful, to trace the history of property from the first loose
and transient occupancy of the savage, through all the modifications which it has at different
times received, to that comprehensive, subtle, and anxiously minute code of property which
is the last result of the most refined civilization.

I shall observe the same order in considering the society of the sexes as it is regulated by
the institution of marriage.[19] I shall endeavour to lay open those unalterable principles
of general interest on which that institution rests: and if I entertain a hope that on this
subject I may be able to add something to what our masters in morality have taught us, I trust,
that the reader will bear in mind, as an excuse for my presumption, that they were not likely
to employ much argument where they did not foresee the possibility of doubt. I shall also consider
the history[20] of marriage, and trace it through all the forms which it has assumed, to that
decent and happy permanency of union, which has, perhaps above all other causes, contributed
to the quiet of society, and the refinement of manners in modern times. Among many other inquiries
which this subject will suggest, I shall be led more particularly to examine the natural station
and duties of the female sex, their condition among different nations, its improvement in Europe,
and the bounds which Nature herself has prescribed to the progress of that improvement; beyond
which, every pretended advance will be a real degradation.

III. Having established the principles of private duty, I shall proceed to consider man under
the important relation of subject and sovereign, or, in other words, of citizen and magistrate.
The duties which arise from this relation I shall endeavour to establish, not upon supposed
compacts, which are altogether chimerical, which must be admitted to be false in fact, which
if they are to be considered as fictions, will be found to serve no purpose of just reasoning,
and to be equally the foundation of a system of universal despotism in Hobbes, and of universal
anarchy in Rousseau; but on the solid basis of general convenience. Men cannot subsist without
society and mutual aid; they can neither maintain social intercourse nor receive aid from each
other without the protection of government; and they cannot enjoy that protection without submitting
to the restraints which a just government imposes. This plain argument establishes the duty
of obedience on the part of citizens, and the duty of protection on that of magistrates, on
the same foundation with that of every other moral duty; and it shews, with sufficient evidence,
that these duties are reciprocal; the only rational end for which the fiction of a contract
could have been invented. I shall not encumber my reasoning by any speculations on the origin
of government; a question on which so much reason has been wasted in modern times; but which
the ancients[21] in a higher spirit of philosophy have never once mooted. If our principles
be just, the origin of government must have been coeval with that of mankind; and as no tribe
has ever yet been discovered so brutish as to be without some government, and yet so enlightened
as to establish a government by common consent, it is surely unnecessary to employ any serious
argument in the confutation of a doctrine that is inconsistent with reason, and unsupported
by experience. But though all inquiries into the origin of government be chimerical, yet the
history of its progress is curious and useful. The various stages through which it passed from
savage independence, which implies every man's power of injuring his neighbour, to legal liberty,
which consists in every man's security against wrong; the manner in which a family expands
into a tribe, and tribes coalesce into a nation; in which public justice is gradually engrafted
on private revenge, find temporary submission ripened into habitual obedience; form a most
important and extensive subject of inquiry, which comprehends all the improvements of mankind
in police, in judicature, and in legislation.

I have already given the reader to understand that the description of liberty which seems to
me the most comprehensive, is that of security against wrong. Liberty is therefore the object
of all government. Men are more free under every government, even the most imperfect, than
they would be if it were possible for them to exist without any government at all: they are
more secure from wrong, more undisturbed in the exercise of their natural powers, and therefore
more free, even in the most obvious and grossest sense of the word, than if they were altogether
unprotected against injury from each other. But as general security is enjoyed in very different
degrees under different governments, those which guard it most perfectly, are by way of eminence
called free. Such governments attain most completely the end which is common to all government.
A free constitution of government and a good constitution of government are therefore different
expressions for the same idea.

Another material distinction, however, soon presents itself. In most civilised states the subject
is tolerably protected against gross injustice from his fellows by impartial laws, which it
is the manifest interest of the sovereign to enforce. But some commonwealths are so happy as
to be founded on a principle of much more refined and provident wisdom. The subjects of such
commonwealths are guarded not only against the injustice of each other, but (as far as human
prudence can contrive) against oppression from the magistrate. Such states, like all other
extraordinary examples of public or private excellence and happiness, are thinly scattered
over the different ages and countries of the world. In them the will of the sovereign is limited
with so exact a measure, that his protecting authority is not weakened. Such a combination
of skill and fortune is not often to be expected, and indeed never can arise, but from the
constant though gradual exertions of wisdom and virtue, to improve a long succession of most
favourable circumstances.

There is indeed scarce any society so wretched as to be destitute of some sort of weak provision
against the injustice of their governors. Religious institutions, favourite prejudices, national
manners, have in different countries, with unequal degrees of force, checked or mitigated the
exercise of supreme power. The privileges of a powerful nobility, of opulent mercantile communities,
of great judicial corporations, have in some monarchies approached more near to a control on
the sovereign. Means have been devised with more or less wisdom to temper the despotism of
an aristocracy over their subjects, and in democracies to protect the minority against the
majority, and the whole people against the tyranny of demagogues. But in these unmixed forms
of government, as the right of legislation is vested in one individual or in one order, it
is obvious that the legislative power may shake off all the restraints which the laws have
imposed on it. All such governments, therefore, tend towards despotism, and the securities
which they admit against mis-government are extremely feeble and precarious. The best security
which human wisdom can devise, seems to be the distribution of political authority among different
individuals and bodies, with separate interests and separate characters, corresponding to the
variety of classes of which civil society is composed, each interested to guard their own order
from oppression by the rest; each also interested to prevent any of the others from seizing
on exclusive, and therefore despotic power; and all having a common interest to co-operate
in carrying on the ordinary and necessary administration of government. If there were not an
interest to resist each other in extraordinary cases, there would not be liberty. If there
were not an interest to co-operate in the ordinary course of affairs, there could be no government.
The object of such wise institutions which make the selfishness of governors a security against
their injustice, is to protect men against wrong both from their rulers and their fellows.
Such governments are, with justice, peculiarly and emphatically called free; and in ascribing
that liberty to the skilful combination of mutual dependence and mutual check, I feel my own
conviction greatly strengthened by calling to mind, that in this opinion I agree with all the
wise men who have ever deeply considered the principles of politics; with Aristotle and Polybius,
with Cicero and Tacitus, with Bacon and Machiavel, with Montesquieu and Hume.[22] It is impossible
in such a cursory sketch as the present, even to allude to a very small part of those philosophical
principles, political reasonings, and historical facts, which are necessary for the illustration
of this momentous subject. In a full discussion of it I shall be obliged to examine the general
frame of the most celebrated governments of ancient and modern times, and especially of those
which have been most renowned for their freedom. The result of such an examination will be,
that no institution so detestable as an absolutely unbalanced government, perhaps ever existed;
that the simple governments are mere creatures of the imagination of theorists, who have transformed
names used for the convenience of arrangement into real polities; that, as constitutions of
government approach more nearly to that unmixed and uncontrolled simplicity they become despotic,
and as they recede farther from that simplicity they become free.

By the constitution of a state, I mean "the body of those written and unwritten fundamental
laws which regulate the most important rights of the higher magistrates, and the most essential
privileges[23] of the subjects. "Such a body of political laws must in all countries arise
out of the character and situation of a people; they must grow with its progress, be adapted
to its peculiarities, change with its changes; and be incorporated into its habits. Human wisdom
cannot form such a constitution by one act, for human wisdom cannot create the materials of
which it is composed. The attempt, always ineffectual, to change by violence the ancient habits
of men, and the established order of society, so as to fit them for an absolutely new scheme
of government, flows from the most presumptuous ignorance, requires the support of the most
ferocious tyranny, and leads to consequences which its authors can never foresee; generally,
indeed, to institutions the most opposite to those of which they profess to seek the establishment.[24]
But human wisdom indefatigably employed for remedying abuses, and in seizing favourable opportunities
of improving that order of society which arises from causes over which we have little control,
after the reforms and amendments of a series of ages, has sometimes, though very rarely,[25]
shewn itself capable of building up a free constitution, which is "the growth of time and nature,
rather than the work of human invention." Such a constitution can only be formed by the wise
imitation of "the great innovator TIME, which, indeed, innovateth greatly, but quietly, and
by degrees scarce to be perceived."[26] Without descending to the puerile ostentation of panegyric,
on that of which all mankind confess the excellence, I may observe, with truth and soberness,
that a free government not only establishes an universal security against wrong, but that it
also cherishes all the noblest powers of the human mind; that it tends to banish both the mean
and the ferocious vices; that it improves the national character to which it is adapted, and
out of which it grows; that its whole administration is a practical school of honesty and humanity;
and that there the social affections, expanded into public spirit, gain a wider sphere, and
a more active spring.

I shall conclude what I have to offer on government, by an account of the constitution of England.
I shall endeavour to trace the progress of that constitution by the light of history, of laws,
and of records, from the earliest times to the present age; and to shew how the general principles
of liberty, originally common to it, with the other Gothic monarchies of Europe, but in other
countries lost or obscured, were in this more fortunate island preserved, matured, and adapted
to the progress of civilization. I shall attempt to exhibit this most complicated machine,
as our history and our laws shew it in action; and not as some celebrated writers have most
imperfectly represented it, who have torn out a few of its more simple springs, and, putting
them together, miscall them the British constitution. So prevalent, indeed, have these imperfect
representations hitherto been, that I will venture to affirm, there is scarcely any subject
which has been less treated as it deserved than the government of England. Philosophers of
great and merited reputation[27] have told us that it consisted of certain portions of monarchy,
aristocracy, and democracy; names which are, in truth, very little applicable, and which, if
they were, would as little give an idea of this government, as an account of the weight of
bone, of flesh, and of blood in a human body, would be a picture of a living man. Nothing but
a patient and minute investigation of the practice of the government in all its parts, and
through its whole history, can give us just notions on this important subject. If a lawyer,
without a philosophical spirit, be unequal to the examination of this great work of liberty
and wisdom, still more unequal is a philosopher without practical, legal, and historical knowledge;
for the first may want skill, but the second wants materials. The observations of Lord Bacon
on political writers, in general, are most applicable to those who have given us systematic
descriptions of the English constitution.

In the discussion of this great subject, and in all reasonings on the principles of politics,
I shall labour, above all things, to avoid that which appears to me to have been the constant
source of political error: I mean the attempt to give an air of system, of simplicity, and
of rigorous demonstration, to subjects which do not admit it. The only means by which this
could be done, was by referring to a few simple causes, what, in truth, arose from immense
and intricate combinations, and successions of causes. The consequence was very obvious. The
system of the theorist, disencumbered from all regard to the real nature of things, easily
assumed an air of speciousness. It required little dexterity to make his argument appear conclusive.
But all men agreed that it was utterly inapplicable to human affairs. The theorist railed at
the folly of the world, instead of confessing his own; and the men of practice unjustly blamed
philosophy, instead of condemning the sophist. The causes which the politician has to consider
are, above all others, multiplied, mutable, minute, subtile, and, if I may so speak, evanescent;
perpetually changing their form, and varying their combinations; losing their nature, while
they keep their name; exhibiting the most different consequences in the endless variety of
men and nations on whom they operate; in one degree of strength producing the most signal benefit;
and, under a slight variation of circumstances, the most tremendous mischiefs. They admit indeed
of being reduced to theory; but to a theory formed on the most extensive views, of the most
comprehensive and flexible principles, to embrace all their varieties, and to fit all their
rapid transmigrations; a theory, of which the most fundamental maxim is, distrust in itself,
and deference for practical prudence. Only two writers of former times have, as far as I know,
observed this general defect of political reasoners; but these two are the greatest philosophers
who have ever appeared in the world. The first of them is Aristotle, who, in a passage of his
Politics, to which I cannot at this moment turn, plainly condemns the pursuit of a delusive
geometrical accuracy in moral reasonings as the constant source of the grossest error. I shall
next endeavour to lay open the general principles of civil and criminal laws. On this subject
I may with some confidence hope that I shall be enabled to philosophise with better materials
by my acquaintance with the law of my own country, which it is the business of my life to practise,
and of which the study has by habit become my favourite pursuit.

The first principles of jurisprudence are simple maxims of reason, of which the observance
is immediately discovered by experience to be essential to the security of men's rights, and
which pervade the laws of all countries. An account of the gradual application of these original
principles, first, to more simple, and afterwards to more complicated cases, forms both the
history and the theory of law. Such an historical account of the progress of men, in reducing
justice to an applicable and practical system, will enable us to trace that chain, in which
so many breaks and interruptions are perceived by superficial observers, but which in truth
inseparably, though with many dark and hidden windings, links together the security of life
and property with the most minute and apparently frivolous formalities of legal proceeding.
We shall perceive that no human foresight is sufficient to establish such a system at once,
and that, if it were so established, the occurrence of unforeseen cases would shortly altogether
change it; that there is but one way of forming a civil code, either consistent with common
sense, or that has ever been practised in any country, namely, that of gradually building up
the law in proportion as the facts arise which it is to regulate. We shall learn to appreciate
the merit of vulgar objections against the subtlety and complexity of laws. We shall estimate
the good sense and the gratitude of those who reproach lawyers for employing all the powers
of their mind to discover subtle distinctions for the prevention of injustice;[29] and we shall
at once perceive that laws ought to be neither more simple nor more complex than the state
of society which they are to govern, but that they ought exactly to correspond to it. Of the
two faults, however, the excess of simplicity would certainly be the greatest; for laws, more
complex than are necessary, would only produce embarrassment; whereas laws more simple than
the affairs which they regulate would occasion a defect of justice. More understanding[30]
has perhaps been in this manner exerted to fix the rules of life than in any other science;
and it is certainly the most honourable occupation of the understanding, because it is the
most immediately subservient to general safety and comfort. There is not, in my opinion, in
the whole compass of human affairs, so noble a spectacle as that which is displayed in the
progress of jurisprudence; where we may contemplate the cautious and unwearied exertions of
a succession of wise men through a long course of ages; withdrawing every case as it arises
from the dangerous power of discretion, and subjecting it to inflexible rules; extending the
dominion of justice and reason, and gradually contracting, within the narrowest possible limits,
the domain of brutal force and of arbitrary will. In this part of the course, which I mean
to pursue with such detail as to give a view of both codes, that may perhaps be sufficient
for the purposes of the general student, I hope to convince him that the laws of civilised
nations, particularly those of his own, are a subject most worthy of scientific curiosity;
that principle and system run through them even to the minutest particular, as really, though
not so apparently, as in other sciences, and applied to purposes more important than in any
other science. Will it be presumptuous to express a hope, that such an inquiry may not be altogether
an useless introduction to that larger and more detailed study of the law of England, which
is the duty of those who are to profess and practise that law.

In considering the important subject of criminal law it will be my duty to found, on a regard
to the general safety, the right of the magistrate to inflict punishments, even the most severe,
if that safety cannot be effectually protected by the example of inferior punishments. It will
be a more agreeable part of my office to explain the temperaments which Wisdom, as well as
Humanity, prescribes in the exercise of that harsh right, unfortunately so essential to the
preservation of human society. I shall collate the penal codes of different nations, and gather
together the most accurate statement of the result of experience with respect to the efficacy
of lenient and severe punishments; and I shall endeavour to ascertain the principles on which
must be founded both the proportion and the appropriation of penalties to crimes.

As to the law of criminal proceeding, my labour will be very easy; for on that subject an English
lawyer, if he were to delineate the model of perfection, would find that, with few exceptions,
he had transcribed the institutions of his own country. The whole subject of my lectures, of
which I have now given the outline, may be summed up in, the words of Cicero:--"Natura enim
juris explicanda est nobis, eaque ab hominis repetenda naturâ; considerandæ leges quibus civitates
regi debeant; tum hæc tractanda, quæ composita sunt et descripta, jura et jussa populorum;
in quibus."--Cic. de Leg. lib. i. c. 5.

V. The next great division of the subject is the law of nations, strictly and properly so called.
I have already hinted at the general principles on which this law is founded. They, like all
the principles of natural jurisprudence, have been more happily cultivated, and more generally
obeyed, in some ages and countries than in others; and, like them, are susceptible of great
variety in their application, from the character and usages of nations. I shall consider these
principles in the gradation of those which are necessary to any tolerable intercourse between
nations; those which are essential to all well-regulated and mutually advantageous intercourse;
and those which are highly conducive to the preservation of a mild and friendly intercourse
between civilised states. Of the first class, every understanding acknowledges the necessity,
and some traces of a faint reverence for them are discovered even among the most barbarous
tribes; of the second, every well-informed man perceives the important use, and they have generally
been respected by all polished nations; of the third, the great benefit may be read in the
history of modern Europe, where alone they have been carried to their full perfection. In unfolding
the first and second class of principles, I shall naturally be led to give an account of that
law of nations, which, in greater or less perfection, regulated the intercourse of savages,
of the Asiatic empires, and of the ancient republics. The third brings me to the consideration
of the law of nations, as it is now acknowledged in Christendom. From the great extent of the
subject, and the particularity to which, for reasons already given, I must here descend, it
is impossible for me, within any moderate compass, to give even an outline of this part of
the course. It comprehends, as every reader will perceive, the principles of national independence,
the intercourse of nations in peace, the privileges of embassadors and inferior ministers,
the commerce of private subjects, the grounds of just war, the mutual duties of belligerent
and neutral powers, the limits of lawful hostility, the rights of conquest, the faith to be
observed in warfare, the force of an armistice, of safe conducts and passports, the nature
and obligation of alliances, the means of negotiation, and the authority and interpretation
of treaties of peace. All these, and many other most important and complicated subjects, with
all the variety of moral reasoning, and historical examples, which is necessary to illustrate
them, must be fully examined in this part of the lectures, in which I shall endeavour to put
together a tolerably complete practical system of the law of nations, as it has for the last
two centuries been recognised in Europe.

"Le droit des gens est naturellement fondé sur ce principe, que les diverses nations doivent
se faire, dans la paix, le plus de bien, et dans la guerre le moins de mal, qu'il est possible,
sans nuire à leurs véritables intérêts."

"L'objet de la guerre c'est la victoire; celui de la victoire la conquête; celui de la conquête
la conservation. De ce principe et du précédent, doivent dériver toutes les loix qui forment
le droit des gens."

"Toutes les nations ont un droit des gens; les Iroquois même qui mangent leurs prisonniers
en ont un. Ils envoient et reçoivent des embassades; ils connoissent les droits de la guerre
et de la paix: le mal est que ce droit des gens n'est pas fondé sur les vrais principes." De
l'Esprit des Loix, liv. i. c. 3.

VI. As an important supplement to the practical system of our modern law of nations, or rather
as a necessary part of it, I shall conclude with a survey of the diplomatic and conventional
law of Europe; of the treaties which have materially affected the distribution of power and
territory among the European states; the circumstances which gave rise to them, the changes
which they effected, and the principles which they introduced into the public code of the Christian
commonwealth. In ancient times the knowledge of this conventional law was thought one of the
greatest praises that could be bestowed on a name loaded with all the honours that eminence
in the arts of peace and of war can confer:

"Equidem existimo, judices, cùm in omni genere ac varietate artium, etiam illarum, quæ sine
summo otio non facilè discuntur, Cn. Pompeius excellat, singularem quandam laudem ejus et præstabilem
esse scientiam, in fæderibus, pactionibus, conditionibus, populorum, regum, exterarum nationum:
in universo denique bellijure ac pacis."--Cic. Orat. pro L. Corn. Balbo, c. 6.

Information on this subject is scattered over an immense variety of voluminous compilations;
not accessible to every one, and of which the perusal can be agreeable only to very few. Yet
so much of these treaties has been embodied into the general law of Europe, that no man can
be master of it who is not acquainted with them. The knowledge of them is necessary to negotiators
and statesmen; it may sometimes be important to private men in various situations in which
they may be placed; it is useful to all men who wish either to be acquainted with modern history,
or to form a sound judgment on political measures. I shall endeavour to give such an abstract
of it as may be sufficient for some, and a convenient guide for others in the farther progress
of their studies. The treaties, which I shall more particularly consider, will be those of
Westphalia, of Oliva, of the Pyrenees, of Breda, of Nimeguen, of Ryswick, of Utrecht, of Aix-la-Chapelle,
of Paris (1763), and of Versailles (1783). I shall shortly explain the other treaties, of which
the stipulations are either alluded to, confirmed, or abrogated in those which I consider at
length. I shall subjoin an account of the diplomatic intercourse of the European powers with
the Ottoman Porte, and with other princes and states who are without the pale of our ordinary
federal law; together with a view of the most important treaties of commerce, their principles,
and their consequences.

As an useful appendix to a practical treatise on the law of nations, some account will be given
of those tribunals which in different countries of Europe decide controversies arising out
of that law; of their constitution, of the extent of their authority, and of their modes of
proceeding; more especially of those courts which are peculiarly appointed for that purpose
by the laws of Great Britain.

Though the course, of which I have sketched the outline, may seem to comprehend so great a
variety of miscellaneous subjects, yet they are all in truth closely and inseparably interwoven.
The duties of men, of subjects, of princes, of law-givers, of magistrates, and of states, are
all parts of one consistent system of universal morality. Between the most abstract and elementary
maxim of moral philosophy, and the most complicated controversies of civil or public law, there
subsists a connexion which it will be the main object of these lectures to trace. The principle
of justice, deeply rooted in the nature and interest of man, pervades the whole system, and
is discoverable in every part of it, even to its minutest ramification in a legal formality,
or in the construction of an article in a treaty.

I know not whether a philosopher ought to confess, that in his inquiries after truth he is
biased by any consideration; even by the love of virtue. But I, who conceive that a real philosopher
ought to regard truth itself chiefly on account of its subserviency to the happiness of mankind,
am not ashamed to confess, that I shall feel a great consolation at the conclusion of these
lectures, if, by a wide survey and an exact examination of the conditions and relations of
human nature, I shall have confirmed but one individual in the conviction, that justice is
the permanent interest of all men, and of all commonwealths. To discover one new link of that
eternal chain by which the Author of the universe has bound together the happiness and the
duty of his creatures, and indissolubly fastened their interests to each other, would fill
my heart with more pleasure than all the fame with which the most ingenious paradox ever crowned
the most eloquent sophist.

I shall conclude this Discourse in the noble language of two great orators and philosophers,
who have, in a few words, stated the substance, the object, and the result of all morality,
and politics, and law.

"Nihil est quod adhuc de republicâ putem dictum, et quo possim longius progredi, nisi sit confirmatum,
non modo falsum esse illud, sine injuriâ non posse, sed hoc verissimum, sine summâ justitiâ
rempublicam regi non posse."--Cic. Frag. lib. ii. de Repub.

FOOTNOTES

[1] See "A Syllabus of Lectures on the Law of England, to be delivered in Lincoln's-Inn Hall
by M. Nolan, Esq." London, 1796.

[2] I have not been deterred by some petty incongruity of metaphor from quoting this noble
sentence. Mr. Hume had, perhaps, this sentence in his recollection, when he wrote a remarkable
passage of his works. See Hume's Essays, vol. ii. p. 352. ed. Lond. 1788.

[3] The learned reader is aware that the "jus naturæ" and "jus gentium" of the Roman lawyers
are phrases of very different import from the modern phrases, "law of nature" and "law of nations."
"Jus naturale," says Ulpian, "est quod natura omnia animalia docuit." D. I. I. I. 3. "Quod
naturalis ratio inter omnes homines constituit, id que apud omnes peræque custoditur vocaturque
jus gentium." D. I. I. 9. But they sometimes neglect this subtle distinction--"Jure naturali
quod appellatur jus gentium." I. 2. I. II. Jus feciale was the Roman term for our law of nations.
"Belli quidem æquitas sanctissimè populi Rom. feciali jure perscripta est." Off. I. II. Our
learned civilian Zouch has accordingly entitled his work, "De Jure Feciali, sive de Jure inter
Gentes." The Chancellor D'Aguesseau, probably without knowing the work of Zouch, suggested
that this law should be called, "Droit entre les Gens," (Oeuvres, tom. ii. p. 337.) in which
he has been followed by a late ingenious writer, Mr. Bentham, Princ. of Morals and Pol. p.
324. Perhaps these learned writers do employ a phrase which expresses the subject of this law
with more accuracy than our common language; but I doubt whether innovations in the terms of
science always repay us by their superior precision for the uncertainty and confusion which
the change occasions.

[4] This remark is suggested by an objection of Vattel, which is more specious than solid.
See his Prelim. § 6.

[5] "Est quidem vera lex, recta ratio, naturæ congruens, diffusa in omnes, constans, sempiterna,
quæ vocet ad officium jubendo, vetando à fraude deterreat, quæ tamen neque probos frustra jubet
aut vetat, neque improbos jubendo aut vetando movet. Huic legi neque obrogari fas est, neque
derogari ex hac aliquid licet, neque tota abrogari potest. Nec verò aut per senatum aut per
populum solvi hac lege possumus. Neque est quærendus explanator aut interpres ejus alius. Nec
erit alia lex Romæ, alia Athenis, alia nunc, alia posthac, sed et omnes gentes et omni tempore
una lex et sempiterna, et immortalis continebit, unusque erit communis quasi magister et imperator
omnium Deus. Ille legis hujus inventor, disceptator, lator, cui qui non parebit ipse se fugiet
et naturam hominis aspernabitur, atque hoc ipso luet maximas poenas etiamsi cætera supplicia
quæ putantur effugerit."--Fragm. lib. iii. Cicer. de Republ. apud Lactant.

It is impossible to read such precious fragments without deploring the loss of a work which,
for the benefit of all generations, should have been immortal.

[6] "Age verò urbibus constitutis ut fidem colere et justitiam retinere discerent et aliis
parere suâ voluntate consuescerent, ac non modò labores excipiendos communis commodi causâ
sed etiam vitam amittendam existimarent; qui tandem fieri potuit nisi homines ea quæ ratione
invenissent eloquentiâ persuadere potuissent."--Cic. de Inv. Rhet. lib. i. in proëm.

[7] [Greek: Dichaiômata tôt polimôt.]

[8] Cujacius, Brissonius, Hottomannus, &c. &c.--Vide Gravina Orig. Jur. Civil. pp. 132-38.
edit. Lips. 1737.

Leibnitz; a great mathematician as well as philosopher, declares that he knows nothing which
approaches so near to the method and precision of geometry as the Roman law.--Op. tom. iv. p. 254.

[9] Proavia juris civilis.--De Jur. Bell. ac Pac. Proleg. § 16.

[10] Dr. Paley, Princ. of Mor. and Polit. Philos. Pref. pp. xiv. and xv.

[11] Grot. Jur. Bell. et Pac. Proleg. § 40.

[12] I do not mean to impeach the soundness of any part of Puffendorff's reasoning founded
on moral entities. It may be explained in a manner consistent with the most just philosophy.
He used, as every writer must do, the scientific language of his own time. I only assert that,
to those who are unacquainted with ancient systems, his philosophical vocabulary is obsolete
and unintelligible.

[13] I cannot prevail on myself to pass over this subject without paying my humble tribute
to the memory of Sir W. Jones, who has laboured so successfully in Oriental literature, whose
fine genius, pure taste, unwearied industry, unrivalled and almost prodigious variety of acquirements,
not to speak of his amiable manners and spotless integrity, must fill every one who cultivates
or admires letters with reverence, tinged with a melancholy which the recollection of his recent
death is so well adapted to inspire. I hope I shall be pardoned if I add my applause to the
genius and learning of Mr. Maurice, who treads in the steps of his illustrious friend, and
who has bewailed his death in a strain of genuine and beautiful poetry, not unworthy of happier
periods of our English literature.

[16] Est autem virtus nihil aliud quam in se perfecta atque ad summum perducta natura.--Cic.
de Leg. lib. i. c. 8.

[17] Search's Light of Nature, by Abraham Tucker, esq., vol. i. pref. p. xxxiii.

[18] Bacon, Dign. and Adv. of Learn. book ii.

[19] See on this subject an incomparable fragment of the first book of Cicero's Economics,
which is too long for insertion here, but which, if it be closely examined, may perhaps dispel
the illusion of those gentlemen, who have so strangely taken it for granted, that Cicero was
incapable of exact reasoning.

[20] This progress is traced with great accuracy in some beautiful lines of Lucretius:

     ---- Mulier conjuncta viro concessit in unum,
     castaque privatæ veneris connubia læta
     cognita sunt, prolemque ex se vidère coortam:
     TUM GENUS HUMANUM PRIMUM MOLLESCERE COEPIT.
     ---- puerisque parentum
     Blanditiis facile ingenium fregere superbum.
     Tunc et amicitiam coeperunt jungere habentes
     Finitima inter se, nec lædere nec violare.
     Et pueros commendârunt muliebreque sêclum
     Vocibus et gestu cum balbè significarent
     IMBECILLORUM ESSE ÆQUUM MISERIER OMNIUM.

                                         Lucret. lib. v. 1. 1010-22.

[21] The introduction to the first book of Aristotle's Politics is the best demonstration of
the necessity of political society to the well-being, and indeed to the very being, of man,
with which I am acquainted. Having shewn the circumstances which render man necessarily a social
being, he justly concludes, "[Greek: Kai oti anthropos physei politikon zôon.]"--Arist. de
Rep. lib. i.

The same scheme of philosophy is admirably pursued in the short, but invaluable fragment of
the sixth book of Polybius, which describes the history and revolutions of government.

In speaking of both these illustrious men, whose names I here join, as they will be joined
in fame by posterity, which will forget their temporary differences in the recollection of
their genius and their friendship, I do not entertain the vain imagination that I can add to
their glory by any thing that I can say. But it is a gratification to me to give utterance
to my feelings; to express the profound veneration with which I am filled for the memory of
the one, and the warm affection which I cherish for the other, whom no one ever heard in public
without admiration, or knew in private life without loving.

[23] Privilege, in Roman jurisprudence, means the exemption of one individual from the operation
of a law. Political privileges, in the sense in which I employ the terms, mean those rights
of the subjects of a free state, which are deemed so essential to the well-being of the commonwealth,
that they are excepted from the ordinary discretion of the magistrate, and guarded by the same
fundamental laws which secure his authority.

[24] See an admirable passage on this subject in Dr. Smith's Theory of Moral Sentiments, vol.
ii. pp. 101-112, in which the true doctrine of reformation is laid down with singular ability
by that eloquent and philosophical writer.--See also Mr. Burke's Speech on Economical Reform;
and Sir M. Hale on the Amendment of Laws, in the collection of my learned and most excellent
friend, Mr. Hargrave, p. 248.

[25] Pour former un gouvernement modéré, il faut combiner les puissances, les régler, les tempérer,
les faire agir, donner pour ainsi dire un lest à l'une pour la mettre en état de résister à
une autre, c'est un chef-d'oeuvre de législation que le hasard fait rarement, et que rarement
on laisse faire à la prudence. Un gouvernement despotique au contraire saute pour ainsi dire
aux yeux; il est uniforme partout: comme il ne faut que des passions pour l'établir tout le
monde est bon pour cela.--Montesquieu, de l'Esprit des Loix, liv. v. c. 14.

[26] Lord Bacon, Essay xxiv. Of Innovations.

[27] The reader will perceive that I allude to MONTESQUIEU, whom I never name without reverence,
though I shall presume, with humility, to criticise his account of a government which he only
saw at a distance.

[28] This principle is expressed by a writer of a very different character from these two great
philosophers; a writer, "qu'on n'appellera plus philosophe, mais qu'on appellera le plus éloquent
des sophistes," with great force, and, as his manner is, with some exaggeration.

Il n'y a point de principes abstraits dans la politique. C'est une science des calculs, des
combinaisons, et des exceptions, selon les lieux, les tems, et les circonstances.--Lettre de
Rousseau au Marquis de Mirabeau.

The second proposition is true; but the first is not a just inference from it.

[29] The casuistical subtleties are not perhaps greater than the subtleties of lawyers; but
the latter are innocent, and even necessary.--HUME's Essays, vol. ii. p. 558.

[30] "Law," said Dr. Johnson, "is the science in which the greatest powers of understanding
are applied to the greatest number of facts." Nobody, who is acquainted with the variety and
multiplicity of the subjects of jurisprudence, and with the prodigious powers of discrimination
employed upon them, can doubt the truth of this observation.

[31] Burke's Works, vol. iii. p. 134.

[32] On the intimate connexion of these two codes, let us hear the words of Lord Holt, whose
name never can be pronounced without veneration, as long as wisdom and integrity are revered
among men:--"Inasmuch as the laws of all nations are doubtless raised out of the ruins of the
civil law, as all governments are sprung out of the ruins of the Roman empire, it must be owned
that the principles of our law are borrowed from the civil law, therefore grounded upon the
same reason in many things."--12 Mod. 482.

                         FINIS.

            J. MOYES, TOOK'S COURT, CHANCERY LANE.

