Meanwhile, however, the Utilitarians had a far stronger interest in domestic problems. In the
first place, in Bentham's especial province a complete change of feeling had taken place. Romilly
was Bentham's earliest disciple (so Bentham said), and looked up to him with 'filial reverence.'
Every 'reformatiuncle' introduced by Romilly in parliament had been first brought to Bentham,
to be conned over by the two.[35] With great difficulty Romilly had got two or three measures
through the House of Commons, generally to be thrown out by Eldon's influence in the Lords.[36]
After Romilly's death in 1818, the cause was taken up by the Whig philosopher, Sir James Mackintosh,
and made a distinct step in advance. Though there were still obstacles in the upper regions,
a committee was obtained to consider the frequency of capital punishment, and measures were
passed to abolish it in particular cases. Finally, in 1823, the reform was adopted by Peel.
Peel was destined to represent in the most striking way the process by which new ideas were
gradually infiltrating the upper sphere. Though still a strong Tory and a representative of
the university of Oxford, he was closely connected with the manufacturing classes, and had
become aware, as he wrote to Croker (23rd March 1820), that public opinion had grown to be
too large for its accustomed channels. As Home Secretary, he took up the whole subject of the
criminal law, and passed in the next years a series of acts consolidating and mitigating the
law, and repealing many old statutes. A measure of equal importance was his establishment in
1829 of the metropolitan police force, which at last put an end to the old chaotic muddle described
by Colquhoun of parish officers and constables. Other significant legal changes marked the
opening of a new era. Eldon was the very incarnation of the spirit of obstruction; and the
Court of Chancery, over which he presided for a quarter of a century, was thought to be the
typical stronghold of the evil principles denounced by Bentham. An attack in 1823 upon Eldon
was made in the House of Commons by John Williams (1777-1846), afterwards a judge. Eldon, though
profoundly irritated by the personal imputations involved, consented to the appointment of
a commission, which reported in 1825, and recommended measures of reform. In 1828, Brougham
made a great display upon which he had consulted Bentham.[37] In a speech of six hours' length
he gave a summary of existing abuses, which may still be read with interest.[38] Commissions
were appointed to investigate the procedure of the Common Law Court and the law of real property.
Another commission, intended to codify the criminal law, was appointed in 1833. Brougham says
that of 'sixty capital defects' described in his speech, fifty-five had been removed, or were
in course of removal, when his speeches were collected (i.e. 1838). Another speech of Brougham's
in 1828 dealt with the carrying into execution of a favourite plan of Bentham's--the formation
of local courts, which ultimately became the modern county courts.[39] The facts are significant
of a startling change--no less than an abrupt transition from the reign of entire apathy to
a reign of continuous reform extending over the whole range of law. The Reform Bill accelerated
the movement, but it had been started before Bentham's death. The great stone, so long immovable,
was fairly set rolling.

Bentham's influence, again, in bringing about the change is undeniable. He was greatly dissatisfied
with Brougham's speech, and, indeed, would have been dissatisfied with anything short of a
complete logical application of his whole system. He held Brougham to be 'insincere,'[40] a
trimmer and popularity-hunter, but a useful instrument. Brougham's astonishing vanity and self-seeking
prompted and perverted his amazing activity. He represents the process, perhaps necessary,
by which a philosopher's ideas have to be modified before they can be applied to practical
application. Brougham, however, could speak generously of men no longer in a position to excite
his jealousy. He says in the preface to his first speech that 'the age of law reform and the
age of Jeremy Bentham' were the same thing, and declares Bentham to be the 'first legal philosopher'
who had appeared in the world. As the Chief advocates of Bentham he reckons Romilly, his parliamentary
representative; Dumont, his literary interpreter; and James Mill, who, in his article upon
'jurisprudence,' had popularised the essential principles of the doctrine.

The Utilitarians had at last broken up the barriers of obstruction and set the stream flowing.
Whigs and Tories were taking up their theories. They naturally exaggerated in some respects
the completeness of the triumph. The English law has not yet been codified, and it was characteristic
of the Benthamite school to exaggerate the facility of that process. In their hatred of 'judge-made
law' they assumed too easily that all things would be arranged into convenient pigeon-holes
as soon as 'Judge and Co.' were abolished. It was a characteristic error to exaggerate the
simplicity of their problem, and to fail to see that 'judge-made' law corresponds to a necessary
inductive process by which the complex and subtle differences have to be gradually ascertained
and fitted into a systematic statement. One other remark suggests itself. The Utilitarians
saw in the dogged obstructiveness of Eldon and his like the one great obstacle to reform. It
did not occur to them that the clumsiness of parliamentary legislation might be another difficulty.
They failed to notice distinctly one tendency of their reforms. To make a code you require
a sovereign strong enough to dominate the lawyers, not a system in which lawyers are an essential
part of a small governing class. Codification, in short, means centralisation in one department.
Blindness to similar results elsewhere was a characteristic of the Utilitarian thinkers.

III. ECONOMIC REFORM

In another department the Utilitarians boasted, and also with good reason, of the triumph of
their tenets. Political economy was in the ascendant. Professorships were being founded in
Oxford, Cambridge,[41] London, and Edinburgh. Mrs. Marcet's Conversations (1818) were spreading
the doctrine among babes and sucklings. The Utilitarians were the sacred band who defended
the strictest orthodoxy against all opponents. They spoke as recognised authorities upon some
of the most vital questions of the day, of which I need here only notice Free Trade, the doctrine
most closely associated with the teaching of their revered Adam Smith. In 1816 Ricardo remarks
with satisfaction that the principle 'is daily obtaining converts' even among the most prejudiced
classes; and he refers especially to a petition in which the clothiers of Gloucestershire[42]
expressed their willingness to give up all restrictions. There was, indeed, an important set-off
against this gain. The landowners were being pledged to protection. They had decided that in
spite of the peace, the price of wheat must be kept up to 80s. a quarter. They would no longer
be complimented as Adam Smith had complimented them on their superior liberality, and were
now creating a barrier only to be stormed after a long struggle. Meanwhile the principle was
making rapid way among their rivals. One symptom was the adoption by the London merchants in
1820 of a famous petition on behalf of free trade.[43] It was drawn up by Thomas Tooke (1774-1858),
who had long been actively engaged in the Russian trade, and whose History of Prices is in
some respects the most valuable economic treatise of the time. Tooke gives a curious account
of his action on this occasion.[44] He collected a few friends engaged in commerce, who were
opposed to the corn laws. He found that several of them had 'crude and confused' notions upon
the subject, and that each held that his own special interests should be exempted on some pretext
from the general rule. After various dexterous pieces of diplomacy, however, he succeeded in
obtaining the signature of Samuel Thornton, a governor of the bank of England, and ultimately
procured a sufficient number of signatures by private solicitation. He was favourably received
by the Prime Minister Lord Liverpool, and Vansittart (then Chancellor of the Exchequer), and
finally got the petition presented to the House of Commons by Alexander Baring (afterwards
Lord Ashburton). Tooke remarks that the Liverpool administration was in advance, not only of
the public generally, but of the 'mercantile community,' Glasgow and Manchester, however, followed
in the same steps, and the petition became a kind of official manifesto of the orthodox doctrine.
The Political Economy Club formed next year at Tooke's instigation (April 18, 1821) was intended
to hasten the process of dispersing crude and confused ideas. It was essentially an organ of
the Utilitarian propaganda.

The influence of the economists upon public policy was shown by the important measures carried
through chiefly by Huskisson. Huskisson (1770-1830) was a type of the most intelligent official
of his time. Like his more brilliant friend Canning, he had been introduced into office under
Pitt, and retained a profound reverence for his early leader. Huskisson was a thorough man
of business, capable of wrestling with blue-books, of understanding the sinking-fund, and having
theories about the currency; a master of figures and statistics and the whole machinery of
commerce. Though eminently useful, he might at any moment be applying some awkward doctrine
from Adam Smith.

Huskisson began the series of economic reforms which were brought to their full development
by Peel and Gladstone. The collection of his speeches[45] incidentally brings out very clearly
his relation to the Utilitarians. The most remarkable is a great speech of April 24, 1826[46]
(upon the state of the silk manufacture), of which Canning declared that he had never heard
one abler, or which made a deeper impression upon the House. In this he reviews his policy,
going over the most important financial measures of the preceding period. They made a new era,
and he dates the beginning of the movement from the London petition, and the 'luminous speech'
made by Baring when presenting it. We followed public opinion, he says, and did not create
it.[47] Adopting the essential principles of the petition, the government had in the first
place set free the great woollen trade. The silk trade had been emancipated by abolishing the
Spitalfield Acts passed in the previous century, which enabled magistrates to fix the rates
of wages. The principle of prohibition had been abandoned, though protective duties remained.
The navigation laws had been materially relaxed, and steps taken towards removing restrictions
of different kinds upon trade with France and with India. One symptom of the change was the
consolidation of the custom law effected by James Deacon Hume (1774-1842), an official patronised
by Huskisson, and an original member of the Political Economy Club. By a law passed in 1825,
five hundred statutes dating from the time of Edward I. were repealed, and the essence of the
law given in a volume of moderate size. Finally, the removal of prohibitions was undermining
the smugglers.

The measures upon which Huskisson justly prided himself might have been dictated by the Political
Economy Club itself. So far as they went they were an application of the doctrines of its thoroughgoing
members, of Mill, Ricardo, and the orthodox school. They indeed supported him in the press.
The Morning Chronicle, which expressed their views, declared him to be the most virtuous minister,
that is (in true Utilitarian phrase), the most desirous of national welfare who had ever lived.
The praise of Radicals would be not altogether welcome. Canning, in supporting his friend,
maintained that sound commercial policy belonged no more to the Whigs than to the Tories. Huskisson
and he were faithful disciples of Pitt, whose treaty with France in 1786, assailed by Fox and
the Whigs, had been the first practical application of the Wealth of Nations. Neither party,
perhaps, could claim a special connection with good or bad political economy; and certainly
neither was prepared to incur political martyrdom in zeal for scientific truth. A question
was beginning to come to the front which would make party lines dependent upon economic theories,
and Huskisson's view of this was characteristic.

The speech from which I have quoted begins with an indignant retort upon a member who had applied
to him Burke's phrase about a perfect-bred metaphysician exceeding the devil in malignity and
contempt for mankind. Huskisson frequently protested even against the milder epithet of theorist.
He asserted most emphatically that he appealed to 'experience' and not to 'theory,' a slippery
distinction which finds a good exposure in Bentham's Book of Fallacies.[48] The doctrine, however,
was a convenient one for Huskisson. He could appeal to experience to show that commercial restrictions
had injured the woollen trade, and their absence benefited the cotton trade,[49] and when he
was not being taunted with theories, he would state with perfect clearness the general free
trade argument.[50] But he had to keep an eye to the uncomfortable tricks which theories sometimes
play. He argued emphatically in 1825[51] that analogy between manufactures and agriculture
is 'illogical.' He does not wish to depress the price of corn, but to keep it at such a level
that our manufactures may not be hampered by dear food. Here he was forced by stress of politics
to differ from his economical friends. The country gentleman did not wish to pay duties on
his silk or his brandy, but he had a direct and obvious interest in keeping up the price of
corn. Huskisson had himself supported the Corn Bill of 1815, but it was becoming more and more
obvious that a revision would be necessary. In 1828 he declared that he 'lamented from the
bottom of his soul the mass of evil and misery and destruction of capital which that law in
the course of twelve years had produced.'[52] Ricardo, meanwhile, and the economists had from
the first applied to agriculture the principles which Huskisson applied to manufactures.[53]
Huskisson's melancholy death has left us unable to say whether upon this matter he would have
been as convertible as Peel. In any case the general principle of free trade was as fully adopted
by Huskisson and Canning as by the Utilitarians themselves. The Utilitarians could again claim
to be both the inspirers of the first principles, and the most consistent in carrying out the
deductions. They, it is true, were not generally biassed by having any interest in rents. They
were to be the allies or teachers of the manufacturing class which began to be decidedly opposed
to the squires and the old order.

In one very important economic question, the Utilitarians not only approved a change of the
law, but were the main agents in bringing it about. Francis Place was the wire-puller, to whose
energy was due the abolition of the Conspiracy Laws in 1824. Joseph Hume in the House of Commons,
and M'Culloch, then editor of the Scotsman, had the most conspicuous part in the agitation,
but Place worked the machinery of agitation. The bill passed in 1824 was modified by an act
of 1825; but the modification, owing to Place's efforts, was not serious, and the act, as we
are told on good authority, 'effected a real emancipation,' and for the first time established
the right of 'collective bargaining.'[54] The remarkable thing is that this act, carried on
the principles of 'Radical individualism' and by the efforts of Radical individualists, was
thus a first step towards the application to practice of socialist doctrine. Place thought
that the result of the act would be not the encouragement, but the decline, of trades-unions.
The unions had been due to the necessity of combining against oppressive laws, and would cease
when those laws were abolished.[55] This marks a very significant stage in the development
of economic opinion.

IV. CHURCH REFORM

The movement which at this period was most conspicuous politically was that which resulted
in Roman Catholic emancipation, and here, too, the Utilitarians might be anticipating a complete
triumph of their principles. The existing disqualifications, indeed, were upheld by little
but the purely obstructive sentiment. When the duke of York swore that 'so help him God!' he
would oppose the change to the last, he summed up the whole 'argument' against it. Canning
and Huskisson here represented the policy not only of Pitt, but of Castlereagh. The Whigs,
indeed, might claim to be the natural representatives of toleration. The church of England
was thoroughly subjugated by the state, and neither Whig nor Tory wished for a fundamental
change. But the most obvious differentia of Whiggism was a dislike to the ecclesiastical spirit.
The Whig noble was generally more or less of a freethinker; and upon such topics Holland House
differed little from Queen's Square Place, or differed only in a rather stricter reticence.
Both Whig and Tory might accept Warburton's doctrine of an 'alliance' between church and state.
The Tory inferred that the church should be supported. His prescription for meeting discontent
was 'more yeomanry' and a handsome sum for church-building. The Whig thought that the church
got a sufficient return in being allowed to keep its revenues. On the Tory view, the relation
might be compared to that of man and wife in Christian countries where, though the two are
one, the husband is bound to fidelity. On the Whig view it was like a polygamous system, where
the wife is in complete subjection, and the husband may take any number of concubines. The
Whig noble regarded the church as socially useful, but he was by no means inclined to support
its interests when they conflicted with other political considerations. He had been steadily
in favour of diminishing the privileges of the establishment, and had taken part in removing
the grievances of the old penal laws. He was not prepared to uphold privileges which involved
a palpable danger to his order.

This position is illustrated by Sydney Smith, the ideal divine of Holland House. The Plymley
Letters[56] give his views most pithily. Smith, a man as full of sound sense as of genuine
humour, appeals to the principles of toleration, and is keenly alive to the absurdity of a
persecution which only irritates without conversion. But he also appeals to the danger of the
situation. 'If Bonaparte lives,'[57] he says, 'and something is not done to conciliate the
Catholics, it seems to me absolutely impossible but that we must perish.' We are like the captain
of a ship attacked by a pirate, who should begin by examining his men in the church catechism,
and forbid any one to sponge or ram who had not taken the sacrament according to the forms
of the church of England. In any case the Whigs, whose great boast was their support of toleration,
would not be prompted by any Quixotic love of the church to encounter tremendous perils in
defence of its privileges.

Smith's zeal had its limits. He observes humorously in his preface that he had found himself
after the Reform Bill engaged in the defence of the National Church against the archbishop
of Canterbury and the bishop of London. The letters to Archdeacon Singleton, written when the
Whigs were flirting with the Radicals, show how much good an old Whig could find in the establishment.
This marks the difference between the true Whig and the Utilitarian. The Whig would not risk
the country for the sake of church; he would keep the clerical power strictly subordinate to
the power of the state, but then, when considered from the political side, it was part of a
government system providing him with patronage, and to be guarded from the rude assaults of
the Radical reformer. The Utilitarian, though for the moment he was in alliance with the Whig,
regarded the common victory as a step to something far more sweeping. He objected to intolerance
as decidedly as the Whig, for absolute freedom of opinion was his most cherished doctrine.
He objected still more emphatically to persecution on behalf of the church, because he entirely
repudiated its doctrines. The objection to spreading true doctrine by force is a strong one,
but hardly so strong as the objection to a forcible spread of false doctrine. But, besides
this, the church represented to the Utilitarian precisely the very worst specimen of the corruptions
of the time. The Court of Chancery was bad enough, but the whole ecclesiastical system with
its vast prizes,[59] its opportunities for corrupt patronage, its pluralism and non-residence
was an evil on a larger scale. The Radical, therefore, unlike the Whig, was an internecine
enemy of the whole system. The 'church of England system,' as Bentham calmly remarks, is 'ripe
for dissolution.'[60] I have already noticed his quaint proposal for giving effect to his views.
Mill, in the Westminster Review, denounced the church of England as the worst of all churches.[61]
To the Utilitarian, in short, the removal of the disqualification of dissenters and Catholics
was thus one step to the consummation which their logic demanded--the absolute disestablishment
and disendowment of the church. Conservatives in general anticipated the confiscation of church
revenues as a necessary result of reform; and so far as the spirit of reformers was represented
by the Utilitarians and their Radical allies, they had good grounds for the fear. James Mill's
theory is best indicated by a later article published in the London Review of July 1835. After
pointing out that the church of England retains all the machinery desired for supporting priests
and preventing the growth of intellect and morality, he proceeds to ask what the clergy do
for their money. They read prayers, which is a palpable absurdity; they preach sermons to spread
superstitious notions of the Supreme Being, and perform ceremonies--baptism, and so forth--which
are obviously silly. For this purpose, however, it might be necessary to substitute tea and
coffee for wine. In other words, the church is to be made into a popular London University.
I need not pronounce upon Mill's scheme, which seems to have some sense in it, but one would
like to know whether Newman read his article.

V. SINISTER INTERESTS

In questions of foreign policy, of law reform, of political economy, and of religious tests,
the Utilitarians thus saw the gradual approximation to their most characteristic views on the
part of the Whigs, and a strong infiltration of the same views among the less obstructive Tories.
They held the logical creed, to which others were slowly approximating, either from the force
of argument or from the great social changes which were bringing new classes into political
power. The movement for parliamentary reform which for a time overshadowed all other questions
might be regarded as a corollary from the position already won. Briefly, it was clear that
a new social stratum was exercising a vast influence; the doctrines popular with it had to
be more or less accepted; and the only problem worth consideration by practical men was whether
or not such a change should be made in the political machinery as would enable the influence
to be exercised by direct and constitutional means. To the purely obstructive Tory parliamentary
reform was a step to the general cataclysm. The proprietor of a borough, like the proprietor
of a church patronage or commission in the army, had a right to his votes, and to attack his
right was simply confiscation of private property. The next step might be to confiscate his
estate. But even the more intelligent Conservative drew the line at such a measure. Canning,
Huskisson, and even Peel might accept the views of the Utilitarians in regard to foreign policy,
to law reform, to free trade, or the removal of religious tests, declaring only that they were
obeying 'experience' instead of logic, and might therefore go just as far as they pleased.
But they were all pledged to resist parliamentary reform to the utmost. Men thoroughly steeped
in official life, and versed in the actual working of the machinery, were naturally alive to
the magnitude of the change to be introduced. They saw with perfect clearness that it would
amount to a revolution. The old system in which the ruling classes carried on business by family
alliances and bargains between ministers and great men would be impracticable. The fact that
so much had been done in the way of concession to the ideas of the new classes was for them
an argument against the change. If the governing classes were ready to reform abuses, why should
they be made unable to govern? A gradual enfranchisement of the great towns on the old system
might be desirable. Such a man as Huskisson, representing great commercial interests, could
not be blind to the necessity. But a thorough reconstruction was more alarming. As Canning
had urged in a great speech at Liverpool, a House of Commons, thoroughly democratised, would
be incompatible with the existence of the monarchy and the House of Lords. So tremendously
powerful a body would reduce the other parts of the constitution to mere excrescences, feeble
drags upon the new driving-wheel in which the whole real force would be concentrated.

That this expressed, in point of fact, a serious truth, was, I take it, undeniable. The sufficient
practical answer was, that change was inevitable. To refuse to adapt the constitutional machinery
to the altered political forces was not to hinder their growth, but to make a revolution necessary.
When, accordingly, the excluded classes began seriously to demand admission, the only question
came to lie between violent and peaceable methods. The alarm with which our fathers watched
the progress of the measure may seem to us exaggerated, but they scarcely overestimated the
magnitude of the change. The old rulers were taking a new partner of such power, that whatever
authority was left to them might seem to be left on sufferance. As soon as he became conscious
of his strength, they would be reduced to nonentities. The Utilitarians took some part in the
struggle, and welcomed the victory with anticipations destined to be, for the time at least,
cruelly disappointed. But they were still a small minority, whose views rather scandalised
the leaders of the party with which they were in temporary alliance. The principles upon which
they based their demands, as formulated by James Mill, looked, as we shall see, far beyond
the concessions of the moment.

One other political change is significant, though I am unable to give an adequate account of
it. Bentham's denunciation of 'sinister interests'--one of his leading topics--corresponds
to the question of sinecures, which was among the most effective topics of Radical declamation.
The necessity of limiting the influence of the crown and excluding 'placemen' from the House
of Commons had been one of the traditional Whig commonplaces, and a little had been done by
Burke's act of 1782 towards limiting pensions and abolishing obsolete offices. When English
Radicalism revived, the assault was renewed in parliament and the press. During the war little
was achieved, though a revival of the old complaints about placemen in parliament was among
the first symptoms of the rising sentiment. In 1812 an attack was made upon the 'tellers of
the Exchequer.' Romilly[62] says that the value of one of these offices had risen to £26,000
or £27,000 a year. The income came chiefly from fees, and the actual work, whatever it was,
was done by deputy. The scandal was enormous at a time when the stress upon the nation was
almost unbearable. One of the tellerships was held by a member of the great Grenville family,
who announced that they regarded the demand for reform as a personal attack upon them. The
opposition, therefore, could not muster even its usual strength, and the motion for inquiry
was rejected. When the war was over, even the government began to feel that something must
be done. In 1817 some acts were passed[63] abolishing a variety of sinecure offices and 'regulating
certain offices in the Court of Exchequer.' The Radicals considered this as a mere delusion,
because it was provided at the same time that pensions might be given to persons who had held
certain great offices. The change, however, was apparently of importance as removing the chief
apology for sinecures, and the system with modifications still remains. The marquis of Camden,
one of the tellers of the Exchequer, voluntarily resigned the fees and accepted only the regular
salary of £2500. His action is commended in the Black Book,[64] which expresses a regret that
the example had not been followed by other great sinecurists. Public opinion was beginning
to be felt. During the subsequent period the cry against sinecures became more emphatic. The
Black Book, published originally in 1820 and 1823, and afterwards reissued, gave a list, so
far as it could be ascertained, of all pensions, and supplied a mass of information for Radical
orators. The amount of pensions is stated at over £1,000,000, including sinecure offices with
over £350,000 annually;[65] and the list of offices (probably very inaccurate in detail) gives
a singular impression of the strange ramifications of the system. Besides the direct pensions,
every new department of administration seems to have suggested the foundation of offices which
tended to become sinecures. The cry for 'retrenchment' was joined to the cry for reform.[66]
Joseph Hume, who first entered parliament in 1818, became a representative of the Utilitarian
Radicalism, and began a long career of minute criticism which won for him the reputation of
a stupendous bore, but helped to keep a steady pressure upon ministers.[67] Sir James Graham
(1792-1861) was at this time of Radical tendencies, and first made himself conspicuous by demanding
returns of pensions.[68] The settlements of the civil lists of George IV., William IV., and
Victoria, gave opportunities for imposing new restrictions upon the pension system. Although
no single sweeping measure was passed, the whole position was changed. By the time of the Reform
Bill, a sinecure had become an anachronism. The presumption was that whenever an opportunity
offered, it would be suppressed. Some of the sinecure offices in the Court of Chancery, the
'Keeper of the Hanaper,' the 'Chaffwax,' and so forth, were abolished by an act passed by the
parliament which had just carried the Reform Bill.[69] In 1833 a reform of the system of naval
administration by Sir James Graham got rid of some cumbrous machinery; and Graham again was
intrusted in 1834 with an act under which the Court of Exchequer was finally reformed, and
the 'Clerk of the Pells' and the 'Tellers of the Exchequer' ceased to exist.[70] Other offices
seem to have melted away by degrees, whenever a chance offered.

Many other of the old abuses had ceased to require any special denunciations from political
theorists. The general principle was established, and what remained was to apply it in detail.
The prison system was no longer in want of a Howard or a Bentham. Abuses remained which occupied
the admirable Mrs. Fry; and many serious difficulties had to be solved by a long course of
experiment. But it was no longer a question whether anything should be doing, but of the most
efficient means of bringing about an admittedly desirable end. The agitation for the suppression
of the slave-trade again had been succeeded by the attack upon slavery. The system was evidently
doomed, although not finally abolished till after the Reform Bill; and ministers were only
considering the question whether the abolition should be summary or gradual, or what compensation
might be made to vested interests. The old agitation had been remarkable, as I have said, not
only for its end but for the new kind of machinery to which it had applied. Popular agitation[71]
had taken a new shape. The county associations formed in the last days of the American war
of independence, and the societies due to the French revolution had set a precedent. The revolutionary
societies had been suppressed or had died out, as opposed to the general spirit of the nation,
although they had done a good deal to arouse political speculation. In the period of distress
which followed the war the Radical reformers had again held public meetings, and had again
been met by repressive measures. The acts of 1817 and 1819[72] imposed severe restrictions
upon the right of public meeting. The old 'county meeting,' which continued to be common until
the reform period, and was summoned by the lord-lieutenant or the sheriff on a requisition
from the freeholders, had a kind of constitutional character, though I do not know its history
in detail.[73] The extravagantly repressive measures were an anachronism, or could only be
enforced during the pressure of an intense excitement. In one way or other, public meetings
were soon being held as frequently as ever. The trial of Queen Caroline gave opportunity for
numerous gatherings, and statesmen began to find that they must use instead of suppressing
them. Canning[74] appears to have been the first minister to make frequent use of speeches
addressed to public meetings; and meetings to which such appeals were addressed soon began
to use their authority to demand pledges from the speakers.[75] Representation was to be understood
more and more as delegation. Meanwhile the effect of public meetings was enormously increased
when a general organisation was introduced. The great precedent was the Catholic Association,
founded in 1823 by O'Connell and Sheil. The peculiar circumstances of the Irish people and
their priests gave a ready-made machinery for the agitation which triumphed in 1829. The Political
Union founded by Attwood at Birmingham in the same year adopted the method, and led to the
triumph of 1832. Political combination henceforth took a different shape, and in the ordinary
phrase, 'public opinion' became definitely the ultimate and supreme authority. This enormous
change and the corresponding development of the power of the press, which affected to mould
and, at any rate, expressed public opinion, entirely fell in with Utilitarian principles. Their
part in bringing about the change was of no special importance except in so far as they more
or less inspired the popular orators. They were, however, ready to take advantage of it. They
had the Westminster Review to take a place beside the Edinburgh and Quarterly Reviews, which
had raised periodical writing to a far higher position than it had ever occupied, and to which
leading politicians and leading authors on both sides had become regular contributors. The
old contempt for journalism was rapidly vanishing. In 1825 Canning expresses his regret for
having given some information to a paper of which an ill use had been made. He had previously
abstained from all communication with 'these gentry,' and was now resolved to have done with
hoc genus omne for good and all.[76] In 1839 we find his former colleague, Lord Lyndhurst,
seeking an alliance with Barnes, the editor of the Times, as eagerly as though Barnes had been
the head of a parliamentary party.[77]

The newspapers had probably done more than the schools to spread habits of reading through
the country. Yet the strong interest which was growing up in educational matters was characteristic.
Brougham's phrase, 'the schoolmaster is abroad' (29th January 1821), became a popular proverb,
and rejoiced the worthy Bentham.[78] I have already described the share taken by the Utilitarians
in the great Bell and Lancaster controversy. Parliament had as yet done little. A bill brought
in by Whitbread had been passed in 1807 by the House of Commons, enabling parishes to form
schools on the Scottish model, but according to Romilly,[79] it was passed in the well-grounded
confidence that it would be thrown out by the peers. A committee upon education was obtained
by Brougham after the peace, which reported in 1818, and which led to a commission upon school
endowments. Brougham introduced an education bill in 1820, but nothing came of it. The beginning
of any participation by government in national education was not to take place till after the
Reform Bill. Meanwhile, however, the foundation of the London University upon unsectarian principles
was encouraging the Utilitarians; and there were other symptoms of the growth of enlightenment.
George Birkbeck (1776-1841) had started some popular lectures upon science at Glasgow about
1800, and having settled as a physician in London, started the 'Mechanics' Institution' in
1824. Brougham was one of the first trustees; and the institution, though exposed to a good
deal of ridicule, managed to take root and become the parent of others. In 1827 was started
the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, of which Brougham was president, and the
committee of which included James Mill. In the course of its twenty years' existence it published
or sanctioned the publication by Charles Knight of a great mass of popular literature. The
Penny Magazine (1832-1845) is said to have had two hundred thousand subscribers at the end
of its first year of existence. Crude and superficial as were some of these enterprises, they
clearly marked a very important change. Cobbett and the Radical orators found enormous audiences
ready to listen to their doctrine. Churchmen and Dissenters, Tories and Radicals were finding
it necessary both to educate and to disseminate their principles by writing; and as new social
strata were becoming accessible to such influences, their opinions began to exercise in turn
a more distinct reaction upon political and ecclesiastical affairs.

No party felt more confidence at the tendency of this new intellectual fermentation than the
Utilitarians. They had a definite, coherent, logical creed. Every step which increased the
freedom of discussion increased the influence of the truth. Their doctrines were the truth,
if not the whole truth. Once allow them to get a fulcrum and they would move the world. Bit
by bit their principles of legislation, of economy, of politics were being accepted in the
most different quarters; and even the more intelligent of their opponents were applying them,
though the application might be piecemeal and imperfect. It was in vain that an adversary protested
that he was not bound by logic, and appealed to experience instead of theory. Let him justify
his action upon what grounds he pleased, he was, in point of fact, introducing the leaven of
true doctrine, and it might be trusted to work out the desirable results.

I must now deal more in detail with the Utilitarian theories. I will only observe in general
terms that their triumph was not likely to be accepted without a struggle. Large classes regarded
them with absolute abhorrence. Their success, if they did succeed, would mean the destruction
of religious belief, of sound philosophy, of the great important ecclesiastical and political
institutions, and probably general confiscation of property and the ruin of the foundations
of society. And, meanwhile, in spite of the progress upon which I have dwelt, there were two
problems, at least, of enormous importance, upon which it could scarcely be said that any progress
had been made. The church, in the first place, was still where it had been. No change had been
made in its constitution; it was still the typical example of corrupt patronage; and the object
of the hatred of all thoroughgoing Radicals. And, in the second place, pauperism had grown
to appalling dimensions during the war; and no effectual attempt had been made to deal with
it. Behind pauperism there were great social questions, the discontent and misery of great
masses of the labouring population. Whatever reforms might be made in other parts of the natural
order, here were difficulties enough to task the wisdom of legislators and speculators upon
legislative principles.

FOOTNOTES:

[32] Life of Macaulay, p. 114. (Popular Edition).

[33] Canning's Political Correspondence, i. 71-76.

[34] 12th December 1826.

[35] Bentham's Works, v. p. 370.

[36] Romilly's attempts to improve the criminal law began in 1808. For various notices of his
efforts, see his Life (3 vols. 1860), especially vol. ii. 243-54, 309, 321, 331, 369, 371,
389-91. Romilly was deeply interested in Dumont's Théorie des Peines Légales (1811), which
he read in MS. and tried to get reviewed in the Quarterly (ii. 258, 391; iii. 136). The remarks
(ii. 2-3) on the 'stupid dread of innovation' and the savage spirit infused into Englishmen
by the horrors of the French revolution are worth notice in this connection.

[37] Bentham's Works, x. p. 574.

[38] Brougham's Speeches (1838), ii. 287-486.

[39] An interesting summary of the progress of law reforms and of Bentham's share in them is
given in Sir R. K. Wilson's History of Modern English Law (1875).

[40] Bentham's Works, x. 571.

[41] In Cambridge Pryme was the first professor in 1828, but had only the title without endowment.
The professorship was only salaried in 1863.

[42] Ricardo's Works (1888), p. 407.

[43] Printed in Porter's Progress of the Nation and elsewhere.

[44] See sixth volume of History of Prices by Tooke and Newmarch, and privately printed Minutes
of Political Economy Club (1882).

[45] Speeches, 3 vols. 8vo, 1831.

[46] Ibid. ii. 465-530.

[47] Ibid. ii. 477.

[48] Bentham's Works, ii. 459. We may remember how J. S. Mill in his boyhood was abashed because
he could not explain to his father the force of the distinction.

[49] Speeches, ii. 246, 332.

[50] Ibid. i. 102-108 (Currency Pamphlet of 1810).

[51] Ibid. ii. 397.

[52] Speeches, iii. 257.

[53] Ricardo indeed made a reservation as to the necessity of counterbalancing by a moderate
duty the special burthens upon agriculture.

[54] In the History of Trades-Unionism by Sidney and Beatrice Webb (1894), pp. 88-98. The history
of Place's agitation is fully given in Mr. Graham Wallas's Life, chap. viii.

[55] Wallas's Francis Place, p. 217.

[56] First published in 1807-8.

[57] Letter iii.

[58] Ibid. vi.

[59] Sydney Smith put very ingeniously the advantages of what he called the 'lottery' system:
of giving, that is, a few great prizes, instead of equalising the incomes of the clergy. Things
look so different from opposite points of views.

[60] Church of Englandism, ii. 199.

[61] See especially his review of Southey's Book of the Church.

[62] Romilly's Memoirs, iii. 33.

[63] 57 George III. caps. 60-67.

[64] Edition of 1828, p. 24.

[65] Ibid. p. 10.

[66] A Mr. Gray proposed at a county meeting in 1816 that the cry of 'retrenchment and reform'
should be raised in every corner of the island (Henry Jephson's Platform, p. 378). I do not
know whether this was the first appearance of the formula.

[67] Hume had been introduced to Place by James Mill, who thought him worth 'nursing.' Place
found him at first 'dull and selfish,' but 'nursed him' so well that by 1836 he had become
the 'man of men,'--Wallas's Francis Place, p. 181, 182.

[68] Torrens's Life of Graham, i. 250-72, where his great speech of 14th May 1830 is given.

[69] 2 and 3 William IV. cap. 111 (passed 15 August 1832).

[70] 4 and 5 William IV. cap. 15.

[71] The Platform, its Origin and Progress, by Henry Jephson (1892), gives a very interesting
historical account of the process.

[72] 57 George III. cap. 19, and 60 George III. cap. 6.

[73] See Jephson's Platform, pp. 167-70.

[74] See Jephson's Platform, i. 348, 455, 517.

[75] See Ibid. ii. 129-40 for some interesting passages as to this.

[76] Official Correspondence (1887), 308.

[77] Greville's George IV. and William IV., iii. 155, 167-69, 171.

[78] Bentham's Works, x. 571.

[79] Romilly's Memoirs, ii. 67, 222.

CHAPTER III

POLITICAL THEORY

I. MILL ON GOVERNMENT

I now turn to the general political theory of which Mill was the authoritative exponent. The
Encyclopædia article upon 'Government' (1820) gives the pith of their doctrine. It was, as
Professor Bain[80] thinks, an 'impelling and a guiding force' in the movement which culminated
in the Reform Bill. The younger Utilitarians regarded it, says J. S. Mill, as 'a masterpiece
of political wisdom';[81] while Macaulay[82] taunts them for holding it to be 'perfect and
unanswerable.' This famous article is a terse and energetic summary of the doctrine implied
in Bentham's Works, but there obscured under elaboration of minute details. It is rather singular,
indeed, that so vigorous a manifesto of Utilitarian dogma should have been accepted by Macvey
Napier--a sound Whig--for a publication which professed scientific impartiality. It has, however,
in the highest degree, the merits of clearness and condensation desirable in a popular exposition.
The reticence appropriate to the place excuses the omission of certain implicit conclusions.
Mill has to give a complete theory of politics in thirty-two 8vo pages. He has scanty room
for qualifying statement or historical illustration. He speaks as from the chair of a professor
laying down the elementary principles of a demonstrated science.[83]

Mill starts from the sacred principle. The end of government, as the end of all conduct, must
be the increase of human happiness. The province of government is limited by another consideration.
It has to deal with one class of happiness, that is, with the pains and pleasures 'which men
derive from one another.' By a 'law of nature' labour is requisite for procuring the means
of happiness. Now, if 'nature' produced all that any man desired, there would be no need of
government, for there would be no conflict of interest. But, as the material produced is finite,
and can be appropriated by individuals, it becomes necessary to insure to every man his proper
share. What, then, is a man's proper share? That which he himself produces; for, if you give
to one man more than the produce of his labour, you must take away the produce of another man's
labour. The greatest happiness, therefore, is produced by 'assuring to every man the greatest
possible quantity of the produce of his own labour.' How can this be done? Will not the strongest
take the share of the weakest? He can be prevented in one and apparently only in one way. Men
must unite and delegate to a few the power necessary for protecting all. 'This is government.'[84]

The problem is now simple. Government is essentially an association of men for the protection
of property. It is a delegation of the powers necessary for that purpose to the guardians,
and 'all the difficult questions of government relate to the means' of preventing the guardians
from themselves becoming plunderers.

How is this to be accomplished? The power of protection, says Mill, following the old theory,
may be intrusted to the whole community, to a few, or to one; that is, we may have a democracy,
an aristocracy, or a monarchy. A democracy, or direct government of all by all, is for the
ordinary reasons pronounced impracticable. But the objections to the other systems are conclusive.
The need of government, he has shown, depends upon 'the law of human nature'[85] that 'a man,
if able, will take from others anything which they have and he desires.' The very principle
which makes government necessary, therefore, will prompt a government to defeat its own proper
end. Mill's doctrine is so far identical with the doctrine of Hobbes; men are naturally in
a state of war, and government implies a tacit contract by which men confer upon a sovereign
the power necessary for keeping the peace. But here, though admitting the force of Hobbes's
argument, he diverges from its conclusion. If a democracy be impossible, and an aristocracy
or monarchy necessarily oppressive, it might seem, he admits, as it actually seemed to Hobbes
and to the French economists, that the fewer the oppressors the better, and that therefore
an absolute monarchy is the best. Experience, he thinks, is 'on the surface' ambiguous. Eastern
despots and Roman emperors have been the worst scourges to mankind; yet the Danes preferred
a despot to an aristocracy, and are as 'well governed as any people in Europe.' In Greece,
democracy, in spite of its defects, produced the most brilliant results.[86] Hence, he argues,
we must go 'beyond the surface,' and 'penetrate to the springs within.' The result of the search
is discouraging. The hope of glutting the rulers is illusory. There is no 'point of saturation'[87]
with the objects of desire, either for king or aristocracy. It is a 'grand governing law of
human nature' that we desire such power as will make 'the persons and properties of human beings
subservient to our pleasures.'[88] This desire is indefinitely great. To the number of men
whom we would force into subservience, and the degree in which we would make them subservient,
we can assign no limits. Moreover, as pain is a more powerful instrument for securing obedience
than pleasure, a man will desire to possess 'unlimited power of inflicting pain upon others.'
Will he also desire, it may be asked, to make use of it? 'Terror' will be the 'grand instrument.'[89]
It thus follows that the very principle upon which government is founded leads, in the absence
of checks, 'not only to that degree of plunder which leaves the members (of a community) ...
the bare means of subsistence, but to that degree of cruelty which is necessary to keep in
existence the most intense terror.' An English gentleman, he says, is a favourable specimen
of civilisation, and yet West Indian slavery shows of what cruelty he could be guilty when
unchecked. If equal cruelty has not been exhibited elsewhere, it is, he seems to think, because
men were not 'the same as sheep in respect to their shepherd,'[90] and may therefore resist
if driven too far. The difficulty upon this showing is to understand how any government, except
the most brutal tyranny, ever has been, or ever can be, possible. What is the combining principle
which can weld together such a mass of hostile and mutually repellent atoms? How they can even
form the necessary compact is difficult to understand, and the view seems to clash with his
own avowed purpose. It is Mill's aim, as it was Bentham's, to secure the greatest happiness
of the greatest number; and yet he seems to set out by proving as a 'law of human nature' that
nobody can desire the happiness of any one except himself. He quotes from Montesquieu the saying,
which shows an 'acute sense of this important truth,' 'that every one who has power is led
to abuse it.'[91] Rather it would seem, according to Mill, all power implies abuse in its very
essence. The problem seems to be how to make universal cohesion out of universal repulsion.

Mill has his remedy for this deeply seated evil. And in England, as he no doubt meant his readers
to understand, the monarchy and aristocracy had to a great extent succeeded. Where, then, are
we to look? To the 'grand discovery of modern times,' namely, the representative system. If
this does not solve all difficulties we shall be forced to the conclusion that good government
is impossible. Fortunately, however, the representative system may be made perfectly effective.
This follows easily. It would, as he has said,[93] be a 'contradiction in terms' to suppose
that the community at large can 'have an interest opposite to its interest,' In the Bentham
formula, it can have 'no sinister interest.' It cannot desire its own misery. Though the community
cannot act as a whole, it can act through representatives. It is necessary to intrust power
to a governing body; but that body can be prevented by adequate checks from misusing its powers.
Indeed, the common theory of the British Constitution was precisely that the House of Commons
was 'the checking body.'[94] The whole problem is to secure a body which shall effectively
discharge the function thus attributed in theory to the House of Commons. That will be done
when the body is chosen in such a way that its interests are necessarily coincident with those
of the community at large. Hence there is of course no difficulty in deducing the actual demands
of reformers. Without defining precise limits, he shows that representatives must be elected
for brief periods, and that the right to a vote must at least be wide enough to prevent the
electoral body from forming a class with 'sinister interests.' He makes some remarkable qualifications,
with the view apparently of not startling his readers too much by absolute and impracticable
claims. He thinks that the necessary identity of interest would still be secured if classes
were unrepresented whose interests are 'indisputably included in those of others.' Children's
interests are involved in those of their parents, and the interests of 'almost all women' in
those of their fathers or husbands.[95] Again, all men under forty might be omitted without
mischief, for 'the great majority of old men have sons whose interests they regard as an essential
part of their own. This is a law of human nature.'[96] There would, he observes, be no danger
that men above forty would try to reduce the 'rest of the community to the state of abject
slaves.' Mill, as his son tells us,[97] disowned any intention of positively advocating these
exclusions. He only meant to say that they were not condemned by his general principle. The
doctrine, however, about women, even as thus understood, scandalised his younger followers.

Mill proceeds to argue at some length that a favourite scheme of some moderate reformers, for
the representation of classes, could only lead to 'a motley aristocracy,' and then answers
two objections. The first is that his scheme would lead to the abolition of the monarchy and
the House of Lords. The reply is simple and significant. It would only lead to that result
if a monarchy or a House of Lords were favourable to bad government. He does not inquire whether
they are so in fact. The second objection is that the people do not understand their own interest,
and to this his answer is more remarkable. If the doctrine be true, he says, we are in 'deplorable'
position: we have to choose between evils which will be designedly produced by those who have
both the power to oppress and an interest in oppression; and the evils which will be accidentally
produced by men who would act well if they recognised their own interests.[98] Now the first
evil is in any case the worst, for it supposes an 'invariable' evil; while in the other case,
men may at least act well by accident. A governing class, that is with interests separate from
those of the government, must be bad. If the interests be identical, the government may be
bad. It will be bad if ignorant, but ignorance is curable. Here he appeals for once to a historical
case. The priesthood at the Reformation argued on behalf of their own power from the danger
that the people would make a bad use of the Bible. The Bible should therefore be kept for the
sacred caste. They had, Mill thinks, a stronger case in appearance than the Tories, and yet
the effect of allowing the people to judge for themselves in religious matters has been productive
of good effects 'to a degree which has totally altered the condition of human nature.'[99]
Why should not the people be trusted to judge for themselves in politics? This implies a doctrine
which had great influence with the Utilitarians. In the remarkable essay upon 'Education,'
which is contained in the volume of reprints, Mill discusses the doctrine of Helvétius that
all the differences between men are due to education. Without pronouncing positively upon the
differences between individuals, Mill observes that, at any rate, the enormous difference between
classes of men is wholly due to education.[100] He takes education, it must be observed, in
the widest possible sense, as meaning what would now be called the whole action of the 'environment'
upon the individual. This includes, as he shows at length, domestic education, all the vast
influence exercised upon a child in his family, 'technical education,' by which he means the
ordinary school teaching, 'social education,' that is the influences which we imbibe from the
current opinions of our neighbours, and finally, 'political education,' which he calls the
'keystone of the arch.' The means, he argues, by which the 'grand objects of desire may be
attained, depend almost wholly upon the political machine.'[101] If that 'machine' be so constituted
as to make the grand objects of desire the 'natural prizes of just and virtuous conduct, of
high services to mankind and of the generous and amiable sentiments from which great endeavours
in the service of mankind naturally proceed, it is natural to see diffused among mankind a
generous ardour in the acquisition of those admirable qualities which prepare a man for admirable
action, great intelligence, perfect self-command, and over-ruling benevolence.' The contrary
will be the case where the political machine prompts to the flattery of a small ruling body.

This characteristic passage betrays an enthusiasm which really burned under Mill's stern outside.
He confines himself habitually to the forms of severe logic, and scorns anything like an appeal
to sentiment. The trammels of his scientific manner impede his utterance a little, even when
he is speaking with unwonted fervour. Yet the prosaic Utilitarian who has been laying down
as a universal law that the strong will always plunder the weak, and that all rulers will reduce
their subjects to abject slavery, is absolutely convinced, it seems, of the possibility of
somehow transmuting selfishness into public spirit, justice, generosity, and devotion to truth.
Equally characteristic is the faith in the 'political machine.' Mill speaks as if somebody
had 'discovered' the representative system as Watt (more or less) discovered the steam-engine;
that to 'discover' the system is the same thing as to set it to work; and that, once at work,
it will be omnipotent. He is not less certain that a good constitution will make men virtuous,
than was Bentham that he could grind rogues honest by the Panopticon. The indefinite modifiability
of character was the ground upon which the Utilitarians based their hopes of progress; and
it was connected in their minds with the doctrine of which his essay upon education is a continuous
application. The theory of 'association of ideas' appeared to him to be of the utmost importance
in education and in politics, because it implied almost unlimited possibilities of moulding
human beings to fit them for a new order. In politics this implied, as J. S. Mill says,[102]
'unbounded confidence' in the influence of 'reason.' Teach the people and let them vote freely,
and everything would follow.

This gives Mill's answer to one obvious objection. The Conservative who answered him by dwelling
upon the ignorance of the lower classes was in some respects preaching to a convert. Nobody
was more convinced than Mill of the depths of popular ignorance or, indeed, of the stupidity
of mankind in general. The labourers who cheered Orator Hunt at Peterloo were dull enough;
but so were the peers who cheered Eldon in the House of Lords; and the labourers at least desired
general prosperity, while the peers were content if their own rents were kept up. With general
education, however, even the lower orders of the people would be fit for power, especially
when we take into account one other remarkable conclusion. The 'wise and good,' he says, 'in
any class of men do, for all general purposes, govern the rest.'[103] Now, the class in which
wisdom and virtue are commonest is not the aristocracy, but the middle rank. Another truth
follows 'from the principles of human nature in general.' That is the rather surprising truth
that the lower orders take their opinions from the middle class; apply to the middle class
for help in sickness and old age; hold up the same class as a model to be imitated by their
children, and 'account it an honour' to adopt its opinions. Consequently, however far the franchise
were extended, it is this class which has produced the most distinguished ornaments of art,
science, and even of legislation, which will ultimately decide upon political questions. 'The
great majority of the people,' is his concluding sentence, 'never cease to be guided by that
rank; and we may with some confidence challenge the adversaries of the people to produce a
single instance to the contrary in the history of the world.'

This article upon 'Government' gives the very essence of Utilitarian politics. I am afraid
that it also suggests that the political theory was chiefly remarkable for a simple-minded
audacity. Good political treatises are rare. They are apt to be pamphlets in disguise, using
'general principles' for showy perorations, or to be a string of platitudes with no definite
application to facts. They are fit only for the platform, or only for the professor's lecture-room.
Mill's treatise, according to his most famous antagonist, was a mere bundle of pretentious
sophistry.

Macaulay came forth like a Whig David to slay the Utilitarian Goliath. The Encyclopædia articles,
finished in 1824, were already in 1825,[104] as Mill says, text-books of the young men at the
Cambridge Union. Macaulay, who won his Trinity fellowship in 1824, had there argued the questions
with his friend Charles Austin, one of Bentham's neophytes. In the next year Macaulay made
his first appearance as an Edinburgh Reviewer; and in 1829 he took the field against Mill.
In the January number he attacked the essay upon 'Government'; and in two articles in the succeeding
numbers of the Review replied to a defence made by some Utilitarian in the Westminster. Mill
himself made no direct reply; and Macaulay showed his gratitude for Mill's generosity in regard
to the Indian appointment by declining to republish the articles.[105] He confessed to have
treated his opponent with a want of proper respect, though he retracted none of his criticisms.
The offence had its excuses. Macaulay was a man under thirty, in the full flush of early success;
nor was Mill's own treatment of antagonists conciliatory. The dogmatic arrogance of the Utilitarians
was not unnaturally met by an equally arrogant countercheck. Macaulay ridicules the Utilitarians
for their claim to be the defenders of the true political faith. It had already disgusted people
with political economy; and would disgust them with parliamentary reform, if it could associate
itself in public opinion with the cause[106]. This was indeed to turn the tables. The half-hearted
disciple was insulting the thoroughbred teacher who had borne the heat and burthen of the day,
and from whom he had learned his own doctrine. Upon this and other impertinences--the assertion,
for example, that Utilitarians were as incapable of understanding an argument as any 'true
blue baronet after the third bottle at a Pitt Club'--it is needless to dwell. They illustrate,
however, the strong resentment with which the Utilitarians were regarded by the classes from
whom the Whigs drew their most cultivated supporters. Macaulay's line of argument will show
what was the real conflict of theory.

His view is, in fact, a long amplification of the charge that Mill was adopting a purely a
priori method. Mill's style is as dry as Euclid, and his arguments are presented with an affectation
of logical precision. Mill has inherited the 'spirit and style of the Schoolmen. He is an Aristotelian
of the fifteenth century.' He writes about government as though he was unaware that any actual
governments had ever existed. He deduces his science from a single assumption of certain 'propensities
of human nature.'[107] After dealing with Mill's arguments, Macaulay winds up with one of his
characteristic purple patches about the method of induction. He invokes the authority of Bacon--a
great name with which in those days writers conjured without a very precise consideration of
its true significance. The Utilitarians are schoolmen, while the Whigs are the true followers
of Bacon and scientific induction. J. S. Mill admitted within certain limits the relevancy
of this criticism, and was led by the reflections which it started to a theory of his own.
Meanwhile, he observes that his father ought to have justified himself by declaring that the
book was not a 'scientific treatise on politics,' but an 'argument for parliamentary reform.'[108]
It is not quite easy to see how James Mill could have made such a 'justification' and distinguished
it from a recantation.

If Mill really meant what Macaulay took him to mean, it would be superfluous to argue the question
gravely. The reasoning is only fit, like the reasoning of all Macaulay's antagonists, for the
proverbial schoolboy. Mill, according to Macaulay, proposes to discover what governments are
good; and, finding that experience gives no clear answer, throws experience aside and appeals
to absolute laws of human nature. One such 'law' asserts that the strong will plunder the weak.
Therefore all governments except the representative must be oppressive, and rule by sheer terror.
Mill's very reason for relying upon this argument is precisely that the facts contradict it.
Some despotisms work well, and some democracies ill; therefore we must prove by logic that
all despotisms are bad, and all democracies good. Is this really Mill's case?

An answer given by Mill's champion, to which Macaulay replies in his last article, suggests
some explanation of Mill's position. Macaulay had paid no attention to one highly important
phrase. The terrible consequences which Mill deduces from the selfishness of rulers will follow,
he says, 'if nothing checks.'[109] Supplying this qualification, as implied throughout, we
may give a better meaning to Mill's argument. A simple observation of experience is insufficient.
The phenomena are too complex; governments of the most varying kinds have shown the same faults;
and governments of the same kind have shown them in the most various degrees. Therefore the
method which Macaulay suggests is inapplicable. We should reason about government, says Macaulay,[110]
as Bacon told us to reason about heat. Find all the circumstances in which hot bodies agree,
and you will determine the principle of heat. Find all the circumstances in which good governments
agree, and you will find the principles of good government. Certainly; but the process, as
Macaulay admits, would be a long one. Rather, it would be endless. What 'circumstances' can
be the same in all good governments in all times and places? Mill held in substance, that we
could lay down certain broad principles about human nature, the existence of which is of course
known from 'experience', and by showing how they would work, if restrained by no distinct checks,
obtain certain useful conclusions. Mill indicates this line of reply in his own attack upon
Mackintosh.[111] There he explains that what he really meant was to set forth a principle recognised
by Berkeley, Hume, Blackstone, and, especially, in Plato's Republic. Plato's treatise is a
development of the principle that 'identity of interests affords the only security for good
government.' Without such identity of interest, said Plato, the guardians of the flock become
wolves. Hume[112] had given a pithy expression of the same view in the maxim 'established,'
as he says, 'by political writers,' that in framing the 'checks and controls of the constitution,
every man ought to be supposed a knave and to have no other end in his actions than private
interest.' Mill points this by referring to the 'organs of aristocratical opinion' for the
last fifty years. The incessant appeal has been for 'confidence in public men,' and confidence
is another name for scope for misrule.[113] This, he explains, was what he meant by the statement
(which Mackintosh considered to have been exploded by Macaulay) that every man pursued his
own interest.[114] It referred to the class legislation of the great aristocratic ring: kings,
nobles, church, law, and army. Utilitarianism, in its political relations, was one continuous
warfare against these sinister 'interests,' The master-evil of the contemporary political state
undoubtedly implied a want of responsibility. A political trust was habitually confounded with
private property. Moreover, whatever else may be essential to good government, one essential
is a strong sense of responsibility in the governors. That is a very sound principle, though
not an axiom from which all political science can be deduced. If the essay on 'Government'
was really meant as a kind of political Euclid--as a deduction of the best system of government
from this single principle of responsibility--it was as grotesque as Macaulay asserted. Mill
might perhaps have met the criticism by lowering his claims as his son suggests. He certainly
managed to express his argument in such terms that it has an uncomfortable appearance of being
intended for a scientific exposition.

This deserves notice because the position is characteristic of the Utilitarians' method. Their
appeals to experience always end by absolute assertions. We shall find the same difficulty
in their economic inquiries. When accused, for example, of laying down absolute principles
in such cases, they reply that they are only speaking of 'tendencies,' and recognise the existence
of 'checks.' They treat of what would be, if certain forces acted without limit, as a necessary
step towards discovering what is when the limits exist. They appear to their opponents to forget
the limits in their practical conclusions. This political argument is an instance of the same
method. The genesis of his theory is plain. Mill's 'government,' like Bentham's, is simply
the conception of legal 'sovereignty' transferred to the sphere of politics. Mill's exposition
is only distinguished from his master's by the clearness with which he brings out the underlying
assumptions. The legal sovereign is omnipotent, for what he declares to be the law is therefore
the law. The law is his commands enforced by 'sanctions,' and therefore by organised force.
The motives for obedience are the fear of the gallows on one side, and, on the other, the desire
of protection for life and property. Law, again, is the ultimate social bond, and can be made
at will by the sovereign. He thus becomes so omnipotent that it is virtually assumed that he
can even create himself. Not only can the sovereign, once constituted, give commands enforced
by coercive sanctions upon any kind of conduct, but he can determine his own constitution.
He can at once, for example, create a representative system in practice, when it has been discovered
in theory, and can by judicious regulations so distribute 'self-interest' as to produce philanthropy
and public spirit. Macaulay's answer really makes a different assumption. He accepts the purely
'empirical' or 'rule of thumb' position. It is idle, he says, to ask what would happen if there
were no 'checks.' It is like leaving out the effect of friction in a problem of mechanics.
The logic may be correct, but the conclusions are false in practice.[115] Now this 'friction'
was precisely the favourite expedient of the Utilitarians in political economy. To reason about
facts, they say, you must analyse, and therefore provisionally disregard the 'checks,' which
must be afterwards introduced in practical applications. Macaulay is really bidding us take
'experience' in the lump, and refrains from the only treatment which can lead to a scientific
result. His argument, in fact, agrees with that of his famous essay on Bacon, where we learn
that philosophy applied to moral questions is all nonsense, and that science is simply crude
common-sense. He is really saying that all political reasoning is impossible, and that we must
trust to unreasoned observation. Macaulay, indeed, has good grounds of criticism. He shows
very forcibly the absurdity of transferring the legal to the political sovereignty. Parliament
might, as he says, make a law that every gentleman with £2000 a year might flog a pauper with
a cat-of-nine-tails whenever he pleased. But, as the first exercise of such a power would be
the 'last day of the English aristocracy,' their power is strictly limited in fact.[116] That
gives very clearly the difference between legal and political sovereignty. What parliament
makes law is law, but is not therefore enforceable. We have to go behind the commands and sanctions
before we understand what is the actual power of government. It is very far from omnipotent.
Macaulay, seeing this, proceeds to throw aside Mill's argument against the possibility of a
permanent division of power. The de facto limitation of the sovereign's power justifies the
old theory about 'mixed forms of government.' 'Mixed governments' are not impossible, for they
are real. All governments are, in fact, 'mixed.' Louis XIV. could not cut off the head of any
one whom he happened to dislike. An oriental despot is strictly bound by the religious prejudices
of his subjects. If 'sovereignty' means such power it is a chimera in practice, or only realised
approximately when, as in the case of negro slavery, a class is actually ruled by force in
the hands of a really external power. And yet the attack upon 'mixed governments,' which Bentham
had expounded in the Fragment, has a real force which Macaulay seems to overlook. Mill's argument
against a possible 'balance' of power was, as Macaulay asserted, equally applicable to the
case of independent sovereigns; yet France might be stronger at Calais and England at Dover.[117]
Mill might have replied that a state is a state precisely because, and in so far as, there
is an agreement to recognise a common authority or sovereign. Government does not imply a 'mixture,'
but a fusion of power. There is a unity, though not the abstract unity of the Utilitarian sovereign.
The weakness of the Utilitarians is to speak as though the sovereign, being external to each
individual, could therefore be regarded as external to the whole society. He rules as a strong
nation may rule a weak dependency. When the sovereign becomes also the society, the power is
regarded as equally absolute, though now applied to the desirable end of maximising happiness.
The whole argument ignores the simple consideration that the sovereign is himself in all cases
the product of the society over which he rules, and his whole action, even in the most despotic
governments, determined throughout by organic instincts, explaining and not ultimately explicable
by coercion. Macaulay's doctrine partially recognises this by falling back upon the Whig theory
of checks and balances, and the mixture of three mysterious entities, monarchy, aristocracy,
and democracy. But, as Bentham had sufficiently shown in the Fragment, the theory becomes hopelessly
unreal when we try to translate it into facts. There are not three separate forces, conflicting
like three independent forces, but a complex set of social institutions bound together into
a whole. It is impossible really to regard government as a permanent balance of antagonistic
forces, confronting each other like the three duellists in Sheridan's Critic. The practical
result of that theory is to substitute for the 'greatest happiness' principle the vague criterion
of the preservation of an equilibrium between indefinable forces; and to make the ultimate
end of government the maintenance as long as possible of a balance resting on no ulterior principle,
but undoubtedly pleasant for the comfortable classes. Nothing is left but the rough guesswork,
which, if a fine name be wanted, may be called Baconian induction. The 'matchless constitution,'
as Bentham calls it, represents a convenient compromise, and the tendency is to attach exaggerated
importance to its ostensible terms. When Macaulay asserted against Mill[118] that it was impossible
to say which element--monarchy, aristocracy, or democracy--had gained strength in England in
the last century, he is obviously looking at the formulæ and not at the social body behind.

This leads to considerations really more important than the argumentation about a priori and
inductive methods. Mill in practice knew very well the qualifications necessary before his
principles applied. He showed it in his Indian evidence; and Place could have told him, had
it required telling, that the actual political machinery worked by very strange and tortuous
methods. Yet he was content to override such considerations when he is expounding his theory,
and laid himself open to Macaulay's broad common-sense retort. The nation at large cannot,
he says, have a 'sinister interest.' It must desire legislation which is beneficial to the
whole. This is to make the vast assumption that every individual will desire what is good for
all, and will be a sufficient judge of what is good. But is it clear that a majority will even
desire what is good for the whole? May they not wish to sacrifice both other classes and coming
generations to their own instantaneous advantages? Is it plain that even enlightenment of mind
would induce a poor man to see his own advantage in the policy which would in the long run
be best for the whole society? You are bound, said Macaulay, to show that the poor man will
not believe that he personally would benefit by direct plunder of the rich; and indeed that
he would not be right in so believing. The nation, no doubt, would suffer, but in the immediate
period which alone is contemplated by a selfish pauper, the mass of the poor might get more
pleasure out of confiscation. Will they not, on your own principles, proceed to confiscation?
Shall we not have such a catastrophe as the reign of terror?

The Westminster Reviewer retorted by saying that Macaulay prophesied a reign of terror as a
necessary consequence of an extended franchise. Macaulay, skilfully enough, protested against
this interpretation. Will not the selfishness lead the actual majority at a given moment to
plunder the rich and to disregard the interests of their own successors?

Macaulay's declaration that he was only 'upon the defensive' might be justifiable in an advocate.
His real thought may be inferred from a speech on the charter made in 1842. The chartists'
petition of that year had asked for universal suffrage. This gives the vital difference. What
Macaulay professes to deduce from Mill's principles he really holds himself, and he holds it
because he argues, as indeed everybody has to argue, pretty much on Mill's method. He does
not really remain in the purely sceptical position which would correspond to his version of
'Baconian induction.' He argues, just as Mill would have argued, from general rules about human
nature. Selfish and ignorant people will, he thinks, be naturally inclined to plunder; therefore,
if they have power, they will plunder. So Mill had argued that a selfish class would rule for
its own sinister interests and therefore not for the happiness of the greatest number. The
argument is the same, and it is the only line of argument which is possible till, if that should
ever happen, a genuine science of politics shall have been constituted. The only question is
whether it shall take the pomp of a priori speculation or conceal itself under a show of 'Baconian
induction.'

On one point they agree. Both Mill and Macaulay profess unbounded confidence in the virtue
and wisdom of the middle, that is, of their own class. Macaulay hopes for a reform bill which
will make the votes of the House of Commons 'the express image of the opinion of the middle
orders of Britain.'[123] Mill holds that the middle class will retain this moral authority,
however widely the franchise be extended; while Macaulay fears that they will be swamped by
its extension to the masses. The reform bill which they joined in supporting was regarded by
the Radicals as a payment on account; while the Whig hoped that it would be a full and final
discharge. The Radical held that no barriers against democracy were needed; he took for granted
that a democracy would find its natural leaders in the educated and intelligent. The Whig,
to whom such confidence appeared to be altogether misplaced, had to find some justification
for the 'checks' and 'balances' which he thought essential.

II. WHIGGISM

I have spoken of Macaulay's articles because they represent the most pointed conflict between
the Utilitarian and the Whig. Macaulay belongs properly to the next generation, but he appeared
as the mouthpiece of the earlier group of writers who in Mill's time delivered through the
Edinburgh Review the true oracles of the Whig faith. Upon that ground Mill had assailed them
in his article. Their creed, he said, was a 'see-saw.' The Whigs were aristocrats as much as
the Tories. They were simply the 'outs' who hoped to be the 'ins.' They trimmed their sails
to catch public opinion, but were careful not to drift into the true popular currents. They
had no desire to limit the power which they hoped one day to possess. They would attack abuses--the
slave-trade or the penal laws--to gain credit for liberality and enlightenment, when the abuses
were such as could be removed without injuring the power of the aristocracy. They could use
'vague generalities' about liberty and so forth, but only to evade definite applications. When
any measure was proposed which really threatened the power of the privileged classes, they
could bring out a contradictory set of fine phrases about Jacobinism and democracy. Their whole
argument was a shuffle and they themselves mere selfish trimmers.[124] To this Jeffrey replied
(in December 1826) by accepting the position.[125] He pleaded guilty to a love of 'trimming,'
which meant a love of the British Constitution. The constitution was a compromise--a balance
of opposing forces--and the only question could be whether they were properly balanced. The
answer was fair enough. Mill was imputing motives too easily, and assuming that the Reviewers
saw the abuses in the same light as he did, and were truckling to public robbers in hopes of
sharing the plunder. He was breaking a butterfly upon a wheel. The Edinburgh Reviewers were
not missionaries of a creed. They were a set of brilliant young men, to whom the Review was
at first a mere pastime, occupying such leisure as was allowed by their professional pursuits.
They were indeed men of liberal sympathies, intelligent and independent enough to hold by a
party which was out of power. We may take as their interpreter the Whig philosopher James Mackintosh
(1765-1832), a man of wide reading, both in history and philosophy, an eloquent orator, and
a very able writer. Mackintosh, said Coleridge,[126] is the 'king of the men of talent'; by
which was intimated that, as a man of talent, he was not, like some people, a man of genius.
Mackintosh, that is, was a man to accept plausible formulæ and to make them more plausible;
not a man to pierce to the heart of things, or reveal fruitful germs of thought. His intellect
was judicial; given to compromises, affecting a judicious via media, and endeavouring to reconcile
antagonistic tendencies. Thoroughgoing or one-sided thinkers, and Mill in particular, regarded
him with excessive antipathy as a typical representative of the opposite intellectual tendencies.
Mackintosh's political attitude is instructive. At the outbreak of the French revolution he
was a struggling young Scot, seeking his fortune in London, just turning from medicine to the
bar, and supporting himself partly by journalism. He became secretary to the Society of the
'Friends of the People,' the Whig rival of the revolutionary clubs, and in April 1791 sprang
into fame by his Vindiciæ Gallicæ. The Whigs had not yet lost the fervour with which they had
welcomed the downfall of the Bastille. Burke's Reflections, the work of a great thinker in
a state of irritation bordering upon frenzy, had sounded the note of alarm. The revolution,
as Burke maintained, was in fact the avatar of a diabolic power. It meant an attack upon the
very organic principles of society. It therefore implied a complete breach of historical continuity,
and a war against the reverence for 'prescription' and tradition which is essential to all
healthy development. To his extreme opponents the same theory afforded the justification of
the revolution. It meant that every institution was to be thrown into the crucible, and a new
world to arise governed only by reason. The view very ably defended by Mackintosh was opposed
to both. He looks upon the French revolution as a more complete application of the principles
of Locke and the English Whigs of 1688. The revolutionists are, as he urges,[127] applying
the principles which had been worked out by the 'philosophers of Europe' during the preceding
century. They were not, as Burke urged, rejecting experience for theory. The relation between
their doctrine and politics is analogous to the relation between geometry and mechanics.[128]
We are now in the position of a people who should be familiar with Newton, but in shipbuilding
be still on a level with the Esquimaux. The 'rights of man' appear to him to mean, not, as
Burke and Bentham once agreed, a set of 'anarchical fallacies,' but a set of fundamental moral
principles; and the declaration of them a most wise and 'auspicious' commencement of the 'regenerating
labours' of the new legislators. The French revolution represented what Somers would now approve
if he had our advantages.[129] A thoroughgoing change had become necessary in France. The church,
army, and law were now 'incorrigible.'[130] Burke had seen, in the confiscation of church property,
an attempt to abolish Christianity. To Mackintosh it seemed to be a reform justifiable in principle,
which, though too roughly carried out, would reduce 'a servile and imperious priesthood to
humble utility.'[131] A poor priesthood, indeed, might incline to popular superstition. We
could console ourselves by reflecting that the power of the church, as a corporation, was broken,
and that toleration and philosophy would restrain fanaticism.[132] The assignats were still
'almost at par.'[133] The sale of the national property would nearly extinguish the debt. France
had 'renounced for ever the idea of conquest,'[134] and had no temptations to war, except her
colonies. Their commercial inutility and political mischievousness had been so 'unanimously
demonstrated,' that the French empire must soon be delivered from 'this cumbrous and destructive
appendage.' An armed people, moreover, could never be used like a mercenary army to suppress
liberty. There was no danger of military despotism, and France would hereafter seek for a pure
glory by cultivating the arts of peace and extending the happiness of mankind.[135]

No wonder that Mackintosh, with these views, thought that the history of the fall of the Bastille
would 'kindle in unborn millions the holy enthusiasm of freedom';[136] or that, in the early
disorders, he saw temporary aberrations of mobs, destined to be speedily suppressed by the
true leaders of the revolution. Mackintosh saw, I take it, about as far as most philosophers,
that is, about as far as people who are not philosophers. He observes much that Burke ought
to have remembered, and keeps fairly to the philosophical principle which he announces of attributing
the revolution to general causes, and not to the schemes of individuals.[137] When assignats
became waste paper, when the guillotine got to work, when the religion of reason was being
set up against Christianity, when the French were conquering Europe, when a military despotism
was arising, when, in short, it became quite clear that the French revolution meant something
very different from a philosophical application of the principles of Locke and Adam Smith,
Mackintosh began to see that Burke had not so far missed the mark. Burke, before dying, received
his penitent opponent at Beaconsfield; and in 1800 Mackintosh took the opportunity of publicly
declaring that he 'abhorred, abjured, and for ever renounced the French revolution, with its
sanguinary history, its abominable principles, and its ever execrable leaders.' He hoped to
'wipe off the disgrace of having been once betrayed into that abominable conspiracy against
God and man.'[138] In his famous defence of Peltier (1803), he denounced the revolution in
a passage which might have been adopted from Burke's Letters on a Regicide Peace.[139]

In a remarkable letter to Windham[140] of 1806, Mackintosh gives his estimate of Burke, and
takes some credit to himself for having discovered, even in the time of his youthful errors,
the consistency of Burke's principles, as founded upon an abhorrence of 'abstract politics.'[141]
Politics, he now thought, must be made scientific by recognising with Burke the supreme importance
of prescription and historic continuity, and by admitting that the philosophers had not yet
constructed a science bearing to practical politics the same relation as geometry to mechanics.
He applied his theory to the question of parliamentary reform in the Edinburgh Review.[142]
Here he accepts the doctrine, criticised by James Mill, that a proper representative system
must be judged, not, as Mill maintained, solely by the identity of its interest with that of
the community at large, but by its fitness to give power to different classes. It follows that
the landowners, the professional classes, and the populace should all be represented. And he
discovers that the variety of the English system was calculated to secure this end. Though
it was only in a few constituencies that the poorest class had a voice, their vote in such
places represented the same class elsewhere. It was as well that there should be some extreme
Radicals to speak for the poorest. But he thinks that any uniform suffrage would be bad, and
that universal suffrage would be the most mischievous of all systems.[143] That would mean
the swamping of one class by all--a tyranny more oppressive, perhaps, than any other tyranny.
If one class alone were to be represented, it should be the favourite middle class, which has
the 'largest share of sense and virtue,' and is most connected in interest with other classes.[144]
A legitimate aim of the legislator is, therefore, to prevent an excess of democracy. With Mackintosh
it seems essential not simply to suppress 'sinister interests,' but to save both the aristocracy
and the middle class from being crushed by the lower classes. The opposition is vital; and
it is plain that the argument for the aristocracy, that is, for a system developed from all
manner of historical accidents and not evolved out of any simple logical principles, must be
defended upon empirical grounds.

Mackintosh was in India during the early period of the Edinburgh Review. Jeffrey, as editor
for its first quarter of a century, may be taken more fully to represent its spirit. Jeffrey's
trenchant, if not swaggering style, covered a very timid, sensitive, and, in some respects,
a very conservative temperament. His objection to the 'Lake Poets' was the objection of the
classical to the romantic school. Jeffrey's brightness of intellect may justify Carlyle's comparison
of him to Voltaire,--only a Voltaire qualified by dislike to men who were 'dreadfully in earnest.'
Jeffrey was a philosophical sceptic; he interpreted Dugald Stewart as meaning that metaphysics,
being all nonsense, we must make shift with common-sense; and he wrote a dissertation upon
taste, to prove that there are no rules about taste whatever. He was too genuine a sceptic
to sacrifice peace to the hopeless search for truth. One of the most striking passages in his
Essays[145] is an attack upon 'perfectibility.' He utterly disbelieves that progress in knowledge
will improve morals or diminish war, or cure any of the evils that flesh is heir to. Such a
man is not of the material of which enthusiastic reformers are made. Throughout the war he
was more governed by his fear than by his zeal. He was in constant dread of failure abroad
and ruin at home. The Review provoked the Tories, and induced them to start its rival, not
by advocacy of political principles, but by its despairing view of the war.[146] He was still
desiring at that time (1808) to avoid 'party politics' in the narrower sense.

The political view corresponding to this is given in the articles, some of which (though the
authorship was not yet avowed) were assailed by Mill in the Westminster. In an early article[147]
he defends the French philosophers against the imputation of responsibility for the reign of
terror. Their excellent and humane doctrines had been misapplied by the 'exasperation' and
precipitation of inexperienced voters. His most characteristic article is one published in
January 1810. The failure of the Walcheren expedition had confirmed his disbelief in our military
leaders; the rise of English Radicalism, led by Burdett in the House of Commons, and Cobbett
in the press, the widely spread distress and the severity of oppressive measures, roused his
keenest alarm.[148] We are, he declared, between two violent and pernicious factions--the courtiers
of arbitrary power and the democrats. If the Whig leaders did not first conciliate and then
restrain the people, the struggle of the extreme parties would soon sweep away the constitution,
the monarchy, and the Whig aristocracy by which that monarchy 'is controlled, confirmed, and
exalted above all other forms of polity.' Democracy, it was plain, was increasing with dangerous
rapidity. A third of every man's income was being taken by taxes, and after twenty years' boastful
hostility we were left without a single ally. Considering all this, it seems as though 'the
wholesome days of England were numbered,' and we are on the 'verge of the most dreadful of
all calamities'--a civil war.

Jeffrey has learned from Hume that all government is ultimately founded upon opinion. The great
thing is to make the action of public opinion regular and constituted. The whole machinery
of the constitution, he says, is for the express purpose of 'preventing the kingly power from
dashing itself to pieces against the more radical power of the people.'[149] The merit of a
representative body is not to be tested simply by the goodness of its legislation, but by its
diminishing the intensity of the struggle for the supreme power. Jeffrey in fact is above all
preoccupied with the danger of revolution. The popular will is, in fact, supreme; repression
may force it into explosion; but by judicious management it may be tamed and tempered. Then
we need above all things that it should, as he says in his reply to Mill (December 1826), give
their 'natural and wholesome influence to wealth and rank.' The stability of the English Constitution
depends, as he said in 1810, upon the monarchy and aristocracy, and their stability on their
being the natural growth of ages and having 'struck their roots deep into every stratum of
the political soil.'

The Whigs represent the view implied in Macaulay's attack upon Mill--the view of cultivated
men of sense, with their eyes open to many difficulties overlooked by zealots, but far too
sceptical and despondent to rouse any enthusiasm or accept any dogmas absolutely. By the time
of the Reform Bill the danger was obviously on the side of dogged obstructionism, and then
the 'middle party,' as Jeffrey calls it, inclined towards the Radical side and begged them
to join its ranks and abandon the attempt to realise extreme views. They could also take credit
as moderate men do for having all along been in the right. But to both extremes, as Jeffrey
pathetically complains, they appeared to be mere trimmers.[150]

The Utilitarian held the Whig to be a 'trimmer'; the Whig thought the Utilitarian a fanatic;
they agreed in holding that the Tory was simply stupid. And yet, when we look at the Tory creed,
we shall find that both Whig and Utilitarian overlooked some very vital problems. The Tories
of course represent the advocates of strong government; and, as their opponents held, had no
theories--only prejudices. The first article of the creed of an Eldon or a Sidmouth was, 'I
believe in George III.';--not a doctrine capable of philosophical justification. Such Toryism
meant the content of the rich and powerful with the system by which their power and wealth
were guaranteed. Their instincts had been sharpened by the French revolution; and they saw
in any change the removal of one of the safeguards against a fresh outburst of the nether fires.
The great bulk of all political opinion is an instinct, not a philosophy; and the obstructive
Tories represented little more than class prejudice and the dread of a great convulsion. Yet
intelligent Tories were being driven to find some reasons for their creed, which the Utilitarians
might have considered more carefully.

III. CONSERVATISM

A famous man of letters represents certain tendencies more clearly than the average politician.
Robert Southey (1777-1843), the 'ultra servile sack-guzzler,' as Bentham pleasantly calls him
in 1823,[151] was probably the best abused man, on his own side at least, among Mill's contemporaries.
He was attacked by Mill himself, and savagely denounced by Byron and Hazlitt. He was not only
a conspicuous writer in the Quarterly Review but, as his enemies thought, a renegade bought
by pensions. It is, I hope, needless to defend him against this charge. He was simply an impatient
man of generous instincts and no reflective power, who had in his youth caught the revolutionary
fever, and, as he grew up, developed the patriotic fever.

Later views are given in the Colloquies on the Progress and Prospects of Society (1829), chiefly
known to modern readers by one of Macaulay's essays. Southey was as assailable as Mill. His
political economy is a mere muddle; his political views are obviously distorted by accidental
prejudices; and the whole book is desultory and disjointed. In a dialogue with the ghost of
Sir Thomas More, he takes the opportunity of introducing descriptions of scenery, literary
digressions, and quaint illustrations from his vast stores of reading to the confusion of all
definite arrangement. Southey is in the awkward position of a dogmatist defending a compromise.
An Anglican claiming infallibility is necessarily inconsistent. His view of toleration, for
example, is oddly obscure. He would apparently like to persecute infidels;[152] and yet he
wishes to denounce the Catholic church for its persecuting principles. He seems to date the
main social evils to the changes which began at the Reformation, and yet he looks back to the
period which succeeded the Reformation as representing the ideal state of the British polity.
His sympathy with the literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries predisposed him
to this position. He would have been more intelligible if he had been more distinctly reactionary.
For all that, his views show the presence of a leaven which was materially to affect the later
development of English opinions. That Jacobinism meant anarchy, and that anarchy led irresistibly
to military despotism were propositions which to him, as to so many others, seemed to be established
by the French revolution. What, then, was the cause of the anarchy? Sir Thomas More comes from
the grave to tell us this, because he had witnessed the past symptoms of the process. The transition
from the old feudal system to the modern industrial organisation had in his day become unmistakably
developed. In feudal times, every man had his definite place in society; he was a member of
a little group; supported, if controlled and disciplined, by an elaborate system of spiritual
authority. The Reformation was the period at which the 'masterless man' made his appearance.
The conversion of pastures into arable land, the growth of commerce and of pauperism, were
marks of the coming change. It proceeded quietly for some generations; but the development
of the modern manufacturing system represents the operation of the same process on a far larger
scale, and with far greater intensity. The result may be described by saying that we have instead
of a legitimate development a degeneration of society. A vast populace has grown up outside
of the old order. It is independent indeed, but at the heavy price of being rather an inorganic
mass than a constituent part of the body politic. It is, briefly, to the growth of a huge 'proletariate'
outside the church, and hostile to the state, that Southey attributes all social evils.

The view has become familiar enough in various shapes; and in the reproaches which Southey
brings against the manufacturing system we have an anticipation of other familiar lamentations.
Our manufacturing wealth is a 'wen,' a 'fungous excrescence from the body politic';[153] it
is no more a proof of real prosperity than the size of a dropsical patient is a proof of health;[154]
the manufacturer worships mammon instead of Moloch;[155] and wrings his fortune from the degradation
of his labourers as his warlike ancestors wrung wealth from their slaves; he confines children
in a tainted atmosphere, physical and moral, from morning till night, and a celebrated minister
(Pitt) boasts of this very evil;[156] he treats his fellow-creatures as machines,[157] and
wealth, though accumulated, is not diffused; the great capitalists, 'like pikes in a fishpond,'
devour the weaker fish;[158] competition is not directed to providing the best goods, but the
cheapest;[159] every man oppresses his neighbour; the landlord racks his tenant, the farmer
grinds the labourer; all the little centres of permanent life are broken up; not one man in
a thousand is buried with his fathers, and the natural ties and domestic affections are prematurely
dissolved.[160]

Here, too, is to be found the source of the infidel opinions which call for suppression. London
is a hotbed of corruption;[161] a centre of wealth; and yet, in spite of poor-laws, a place
where wretches are dying of starvation, and which could collect a mob capable of producing
the most appalling catastrophes. In such a place, men become unbelievers like savages, because
removed from all humanising influences, and booksellers can carry on a trade in blasphemy.
Infidelity is bred in 'the filth and corruption of large towns and manufacturing districts.'[162]
The disappearance of clerical influence has led to 'a mass of ignorance, vice, and wretchedness
which no generous heart can contemplate without grief.'[163] It is not surprising that, in
Southey's opinion, it is doubtful whether the bulk of the people has gained or lost in the
last thousand years.[164] Macaulay takes all this as mere sentimentalism and preference of
a picturesque outside to solid comfort. But whatever Southey's errors of fact, they show at
least a deeper insight than his opponent into some social evils. His proposed remedies explain
his diagnosis of the evil. In the first place, it is not surprising, though it surprised Macaulay,
that he had many sympathies with the socialist, Robert Owen. He saw Owen in 1816,[165] and
was much impressed by his views. In the Colloquies,[166] Owen is called the 'happiest, most
beneficent, and most practical of all enthusiasts'; an account is given of one of the earliest
co-operative schemes,[167] and Southey believes in the possibility of the plan. He makes, however,
one significant remark. Owen, he thinks, could not succeed without enlisting in his support
some sectarian zeal. As Owen happened to object to all religious sects, this defect could not
be remedied.

Southey, in fact, held that the absence of religious discipline was at the root of the whole
evil. Religion, he declares, much to the scorn of Macaulay, 'is the basis upon which civil
government rests.'[168] There must, as he infers, be an established religion, and the state
which neglects this duty is preparing its own ruin. 'Nothing,' he declares, 'in abstract science
can be more certain than these propositions,' though they are denied by 'our professors of
the arts babblative and scribblative'--that is, by Benthamites and Whigs. For here, in fact,
we come to the irreconcilable difference. Government is not to be a mere machinery for suppressing
violence, but an ally of the church in spreading sound religion and morality. The rulers, instead
of merely reflecting the popular will, should lead and direct all agencies for suppressing
vice and misery. Southey, as his son takes pains to show,[169] though he was for upholding
authority by the most stringent measures, was convinced that the one way to make government
strong was to improve the condition of the people. He proposed many measures of reform; national
education on the principles, of course, of Dr. Bell; state-aided colonisation and the cultivation
of waste lands at home; Protestant sisterhoods to reproduce the good effects of the old order
which he regretted and yet had to condemn on Anglican principles. The English church should
have made use of the Wesleyans as the church of Rome had used the Franciscans and Dominicans;
and his Life of Wesley was prompted by his fond belief that this might yet be done. Government,
he said, ought to be 'paternal';[170] and his leading aspirations have been adopted by Socialists
on the one hand, and the converts to Catholicism on the other.

For his philosophy, Southey was in the habit of referring to Coleridge; and Coleridge's Constitution
of Church and State is perhaps the book in which Coleridge comes nearest to bringing an argument
to a conclusion. Though marked by his usual complexities of style, his parentheses and irrelevant
allusions and glances at wide metaphysical discussions, he succeeds in laying down a sufficient
sketch of his position. The book was originally published in 1830, and refers to the Catholic
emancipation of the previous year. Unlike Southey, he approves of the measure, only regretting
the absence of certain safeguards; and his general purpose may be said to be to give such a
theory of the relations of church and state as may justify an establishment upon loftier grounds
than those of the commonplace Tory.

His method, as he explains, is to find the true 'idea' of a constitution and a national church.
The 'idea,' he explains, does not mean the conscious aim of the persons who founded or now
constitute the bodies in question. An 'idea' is the subjective counterpart of an objective
law.[171] It corresponds to the vital force which moulds the structure of the social organism,
although it may never have been distinctly formulated by any one of the actors. In this sense,
therefore, we should have to proceed by a historical method. We should study the constitution
as we study the physiology of a physical body;[172] and he works out the analogy at some length.
So far, Coleridge is expressing the characteristic view that Nature in general is to be regarded
as an evolution; only that evolution is to be understood in the sense of Schelling not in the
sense of either Darwin. Of course, when Coleridge professes to find the 'idea' of the church
and state, what he really finds is not the idea so much as his idea of the idea--which may
be a very different thing. His theory of 'evolution' is compatible with assuming that evolutions
are illegitimate whenever he happens to dislike them.

He coincides rather curiously with James Mill in asserting that the 'social bond' was originally
formed to protect property, not to protect life.[173] He discovers accordingly that the ancient
races, Jews, Goths, and Kelts alike, divided the land into two parts, one to be inherited by
separate families, the other to be set apart for the nation. From the latter or the 'nationalty'
springs the church establishment. This property belongs rightfully and inalienably to the nation
itself. It is held by what he calls the 'clerisy.' Its functions are, in the first place, to
provide a career by which the poorest classes may rise to a higher position; and secondly,
to provide for the development of all the qualities which distinguish the civilised man from
the savage.[174] Briefly, then, the church is that part of the national organism which is devoted
to educating the people to be 'obedient, free, useful organisable subjects, citizens, and patriots,
living to the benefit of the estate, and prepared to die for its defence.' Henry viii. would
have surpassed Alfred if he had directed the 'nationalty' to its true purposes; that is, especially
to the maintenance of universities, of a parochial clergy, and of schools in every parish.
Unluckily, Henry VIII.'s 'idea' of a national church was vague. Ideas were not his strong point.
Coleridge appears to be especially troubled to work the principles into conformity with his
views of Catholic emancipation. The peculiarity of the theory is that the church, according
to him, seems to be simply a national institution. It might exist, and in fact, did exist before
Christianity, as is proved not only by the Jewish but by the Druidical church.[175] That it
should be Christian in England is a 'blessed accident,' or 'providential boon'--or, as he puts
it, 'most awfully a godsend.' Hence it follows that a primary condition of its utility is that
the clerisy should contribute to the support of the other organs of the community. They must
not be the subjects of a foreign power, nor, as he argues at length, subject to the desocialising
influence of celibacy. It follows that the Roman church is unfitted to be ever a national church,
although, if that danger be sufficiently obviated, no political disqualifications should be
imposed upon Romanists. And thus, too, the Church Catholic is essentially a body which has
no relations to any particular state. It is opposed to the world, not to the nation, and can
have no visible head or 'personal centre of unity.'[176] The church which makes such claims
is the revelation of Antichrist.

We need not inquire into the prophecies. It is enough to say that to Coleridge as to Southey
the preservation of an established church seemed to be an essential condition of morality and
civilisation. They differed from the ordinary Tory, who was content to defend any of the abuses
by the cry of sacrilege and confiscation. The church was to be made worthy of its position,
and rendered capable of discharging its high functions effectually. Coleridge, it may be said,
would fully admit that an organ which had ceased to correspond to its idea must die. It could
not continue to preserve itself by mere force of obstruction, but must arouse, throw off its
abuses, and show itself to be worthy of its high claims. Meanwhile, however, he was perhaps
more anxious to show the Utilitarians that in assailing the institution on account of its abuses,
they were really destroying the most essential guarantee of progress. He sums up, in a curious
passage, the proofs of modern degradation.[177] The wicked eighteenth century is of course
responsible for everything. The 'mechanic corpuscular theory'; the consequent decay of philosophy,
illustrated by such phrases as an excellent 'idea' of cooking; 'the ourang-outang theology
of the origin of the human species substituted for the first ten chapters of the book of Genesis;
rights of nature for the duties and privileges of citizens; idealess facts, misnamed proofs
from history, for principles and the insight derived from them': all these and other calamitous
results of modern philosophy are connected with a neglect of the well-being of the people,
the mistaking of a large revenue for prosperity, and the consumption of gin by paupers to the
'value of eighteen millions yearly.' He appeals pathetically to the leaders of the Utilitarians.
They will scorn him for pronouncing that a 'natural clerisy' is 'an essential element of a
rightly constituted nation.' All their tract societies and mechanics' institutes and 'lecture
bazaars under the absurd name of universities' are 'empiric specifics' which feed the disease.
Science will be plebified, not popularised. The morality necessary for a state 'can only exist
for the people in the form of religion. But the existence of a true philosophy, or the power
and habit of contemplating particulars in the unity and fontal mirror of the idea,--this in
the rulers and teachers of a nation is indispensable to a sound state of religion in all classes.
In fact, religion, true or false, is and ever has been the centre of gravity in a realm to
which all other things must and will accommodate themselves.'

The existence of the eighteenth century always remained a hopeless puzzle for Coleridge and
his followers. Why at that period everything went wrong in the higher regions of thought remained
a mystery. 'God is above,' says Sir Thomas More to Southey,[178] 'but the devil is below; evil
principles are in their nature more active than good.' The devil seemed to have got into the
upper air, and was working with his allies, Bentham and Mill and Paine and Cobbett, with remarkable
success. But, whatever the theories of conservatives in church and state, the fact that the
theories were held is important. The diametrical opposition between two schools, one of which
regarded the church as a simple abuse, and its doctrines as effete superstitions, while the
other looked to the church and its creed as giving the sole hope for suppressing the evil principle,
was a critical point in later movements, political as well as religious.

IV. SOCIALISM

I have spoken of Southey's sympathy for Robert Owen. Owen (1771-1858) is one of the characteristic
figures of the time. He was the son of a village tradesman in Wales, and had risen to prosperity
by the qualities of the virtuous apprentice. Industry, patience, an imperturbably good temper,
and sagacity in business matters had raised him to high position as a manufacturer at the time
of the rapid advance of the cotton trade. Many poor men have followed the same path to wealth.
Owen's peculiarity was that while he became a capitalist he preserved his sympathy with the
working classes. While improving machinery, he complained that the 'living machinery' was neglected.
One great step in his career was his marriage to the daughter of David Dale of New Lanark,
a religious and worthy manufacturer.[179] Dale had employed a number of pauper children who
were in that day to be disposed of by their parishes; and had done his best to make their position
more tolerable. Owen took up this scheme, and carried it out more systematically. New Lanark,
in his hands, became a model village; he provided in various ways for the encouragement of
sobriety, industry, and honesty among his workmen, set up stores to supply cheap and good provisions,
and especially provided infant schools and a systematic education. 'The children,' he declares,
'were the happiest human beings he ever saw.' When his partners interfered with his plans,
Owen bought them out and started the company to which Bentham and Allen belonged. New Lanark
rapidly became famous. It was visited by all the philanthropists of the day. The royal dukes
not only of England but of Russia were interested; and Owen even believed that he had converted
Napoleon at Elba. So far, Owen was a benevolent capitalist, exercising a paternal sway over
his people. He became convinced, however, that he had discovered the key to the great social
problems of the day. When the distresses followed the peace, he was prepared to propound his
remedy, and found many willing hearers in all classes. Liverpool and Sidmouth listened to him
with favour, and the duke of Kent became president of a committee started to carry out his
views. He gave the impetus to the movement by which the Factory Act of 1819 was carried, although
it was far from embodying his proposals in their completeness.

Owen's diagnosis of the social disease explains Southey's partiality. Like Southey, he traced
the evil to the development of the manufacturing system. That system involved, as he held,
what later Socialists have called the 'exploitation' of the labouring classes by the capitalists.
With singularly crude notions of political economy, Owen assumed that the 'dead machinery'
was in competition with the 'living machinery.' He made startling calculations as to the amount
of human labour represented by steam-engines; and took for granted that the steam-engine displaced
an equal number of workmen. His remedy for poverty was to set up a number of communities, which
should maintain themselves by cultivating the soil with the spade, and in which every man should
labour for all. Thus New Lanarks were to be spread over the country, with the difference that
the employer was to be omitted. Owen, in short, became properly a Socialist, having been simply
a paternal philanthropist. For a time Owen met with considerable support. A great meeting was
held in London in 1817, and a committee was started two years afterwards, of which Ricardo
was a member. Ricardo, indeed, took pains to let it be known that he did not believe in the
efficacy of Owen's plans. Meanwhile Owen was breaking off his connection with New Lanark, and
becoming the apostle of a new social creed. His missionary voyages took him to Ireland, to
the United States and Mexico, and attempts were made to establish communities in Scotland and
in the State of Illinois.

Owen and his followers became natural antagonists of the Utilitarians. He agreed with Southey
in tracing distress to the development of the great manufacturing system, though he went much
further. The principles essentially involved in the whole industrial system were, according
to him, pernicious. He held the essential doctrine of his modern successors that property is
theft. Between such a man and the men who took the Wealth of Nations for their gospel, and
Ricardo as its authorised commentator, there was an impassable gulf. On the other hand, Owen
was equally far from the Tory view of religious principles. Southey's remark that he could
only succeed by allying himself with some religious fanaticism was just to the point.

Owen was a man of very few ideas, though he held such as he had with extraordinary tenacity,
and enforced them by the effective if illogical method of incessant repetition. Among them
was the idea which, as he declares, had occurred to him before he was ten years old that there
was something radically wrong in all religions. Whether this opinion had come to him from the
diffused rationalism of his time, or was congenial to the practical and prosaic temperament
which was disquieted by the waste of energy over futile sectarian squabbles, or was suggested
by his early study of Seneca--the only author of whom he speaks as having impressed him in
early years--it became a fixed conviction. He had been an early supporter of Lancaster and
'unsectarian' education. When his great meeting was to be held in 1817 it occurred to him that
he might as well announce his views. He accordingly informed his hearers that the religions
of the world were the great obstacles to progress. He expected, as he assures us, that this
candid avowal would cause him to be 'torn in pieces.' It provoked on the contrary general applause,
and Owen congratulated himself rather hastily on having struck the deathblow of superstition.

Owen's position, at any rate, was a significant symptom. It showed that the Socialist movement
sprang from motives outside the sphere of the churches. Owen's personal simplicity and calmness
seems to have saved him from any bitter animosity. He simply set aside Christianity as not
to the purpose, and went on calmly asserting and re-asserting his views to Catholics and Protestants,
Whigs, Radicals, and Tories. They agreed in considering him to be a bore, but were bored rather
than irritated. Owen himself, like later Socialists, professed indifference to the political
warfare of Whigs and Tories. When, at the height of the Reform movement, he published a paper
called the Crisis, the title referred not to the struggle in which all the upper classes were
absorbed, but to the industrial revolution which he hoped to bring about. He would have been
equally ready to accept help from Whig, Tory, or Radical; but his position was one equally
distasteful to all. The Tory could not ally himself with the man who thought all religions
nonsense; nor any of the regular parties with the man who condemned the whole industrial system
and was opposed to all the cherished prejudices of the respectable middle classes.

Owen's favourite dogma is worth a moment's notice. He was never tired of repeating that 'character
is formed by circumstances'; from which he placidly infers that no man deserves praise or blame
for his conduct. The inference, it must be admitted, is an awkward one in any ethical system.
It represents, probably, Owen's most serious objection to the religions of the world. The ultimate
aim of the priest is to save men's souls; and sin means conduct which leads to supernatural
punishment. Owen, on the contrary, held that immorality was simply a disease to be cured, and
that wrath with the sinner was as much out of place as wrath with a patient. In this sense
Owen's view, as I at least should hold, defines the correct starting-point of any social reformer.
He has to consider a scientific problem, not to be an agent of a supernatural legislator. He
should try to alter the general conditions from which social evils spring, not to deal in pardons
or punishment. Owen was acting with thoroughly good sense in his early applications of this
principle. The care, for example, which he bestowed upon infant education recognised the fact
that social reform implied a thorough training of the individual from his earliest years. Owen's
greatest error corresponds to the transformation which this belief underwent in his mind. Since
circumstances form character, he seems to have argued, it is only necessary to change the circumstances
of a grown-up man to alter his whole disposition. His ambitious scheme in America seemed to
suppose that it was enough to bring together a miscellaneous collection of the poor and discontented
people, and to invite them all to behave with perfect unselfishness. At present I need only
remark that in this respect there was a close coincidence between Owen and the Utilitarians.
Both of them really aimed at an improvement of social conditions on a scientific method; and
both justified their hopes by the characteristic belief in the indefinite modifiability of
human nature by external circumstances.

I turn to a man who was in some ways the most complete antithesis to Owen. William Cobbett
(1762-1835), unlike Owen, took a passionate and conspicuous part in the political struggles
of the day. Cobbett, declares the Edinburgh Review in July 1807, has more influence than all
the other journalists put together. He had won it, as the reviewer thought, by his force of
character, although he had changed his politics completely 'within the last six months.' The
fact was more significant than was then apparent. Cobbett, son of a labourer who had risen
to be a small farmer, had in spite of all obstacles learned to read and write and become a
great master of the vernacular. His earliest model had been Swift's Tale of a Tub, and in downright
vigour of homely language he could scarcely be surpassed even by the author of the Drapier's
Letters. He had enlisted as a soldier, and had afterwards drifted to America. There he had
become conspicuous as a typical John Bull. Sturdy and pugnacious in the highest degree, he
had taken the English side in American politics when the great question was whether the new
power should be bullied by France or by England. He had denounced his precursor, Paine, in
language savouring too much, perhaps, of barrack-rooms, but certainly not wanting in vigour.
He defied threats of tar and feathers; put a portrait of George III. in his shop-window; and
gloried in British victories, and, in his own opinion, kept American policy straight. He had,
however, ended by making America too hot to hold him; and came back to declare that republicanism
meant the vilest and most corrupt of tyrannies, and that, as an Englishman, he despised all
other nations upon earth. He was welcomed on his return by Pitt's government as likely to be
a useful journalist, and became the special adherent of Windham, the ideal country-gentleman
and the ardent disciple of Burke's principles. He set up an independent paper and heartily
supported the war. On the renewal of hostilities in 1803 Cobbett wrote a manifesto[180] directed
by the government to be read in every parish church in the kingdom, in order to rouse popular
feeling. When Windham came into office in 1806, Cobbett's friends supposed that his fortune
was made. Yet at this very crisis he became a reformer. His conversion was put down, of course,
to his resentment at the neglect of ministers. I do not think that Cobbett was a man to whose
character one can appeal as a conclusive answer to such charges. Unfortunately he was not free
from weaknesses which prevent us from denying that his political course was affected by personal
motives. But, in spite of weaknesses and of countless inconsistencies, Cobbett had perfectly
genuine convictions and intense sympathies which sufficiently explain his position, and make
him more attractive than many less obviously imperfect characters. He tells us unconsciously
what were the thoughts suggested to a man penetrated to the core by the strongest prejudices--they
can hardly be called opinions--of the true country labourer.

The labourer, in the first place, if fairly represented by Cobbett, had none of the bitter
feeling against the nobility which smouldered in the French peasantry. Cobbett looked back
as fondly to the surroundings of his youth as any nobleman could look back to Eton or to his
country mansion. He remembered the 'sweet country air' round Crooksbury Hill, the song of birds,
and the rambles through heather and woodland. He loved the rough jovial sports; bull-baiting
and prize-fighting and single-stick play. He had followed the squire's hounds on foot, and
admired without jealousy the splendid gardens of the bishop's palace at Farnham. Squire and
parson were an intrinsic part of the general order of things. The state of the English working
classes was, he often declares, the happiest that could be imagined,[181] and he appeals in
confirmation to his own memories. Although, upon enlisting, he had found the army corrupt,
he not only loved the soldier for the rest of his life, but shared to the full the patriotic
exultation which welcomed the 1st of June and the Nile. Even to the last, he could not stomach
the abandonment of the title 'King of France'; for so long as it was retained, it encouraged
the farmer to tell his son the story of Crecy and Agincourt.[182]

What, then, alienated Cobbett? Briefly, the degradation of the class he loved. 'I wish,' he
said, 'to see the poor men of England what the poor men of England were when I was born, and
from endeavouring to accomplish this task, nothing but the want of means shall make me desist.'[183]
He had a right to make that boast, and his ardour in the cause was as unimpeachable as honourable.
It explains why Cobbett has still a sympathetic side. He was a mass of rough human nature;
no prig or bundle of abstract formulæ, like Paine and his Radical successors. Logic with him
is not in excess, but in defect. His doctrines are hopelessly inconsistent, except so far as
they represent his stubborn prejudices. Any view will serve his purpose which can be made a
weapon of offence in his multitudinous quarrels. Cobbett, like the Radicals of the time, was
frightened by the gigantic progress of the debt. He had advocated war; but the peasant who
was accustomed to reckon his income by pence, and had cried like a child when he lost the price
of a red herring, was alarmed by the reckless piling up of millions of indebtedness. In 1806
he calmly proposed to his patron Windham to put matters straight by repudiating the interest.
'The nation must destroy the debt, or the debt will destroy the nation,' as he argued in the
Register.[184] The proposal very likely caused the alienation of a respectable minister, though
propounded with an amusing air of philosophical morality. Cobbett's alarm developed until it
became to him a revelation of the mystery of iniquity. His Radical friends were denouncing
placemen and jobbery, and Cobbett began to perceive what was at the bottom of the evil. The
money raised to carry on the war served also to support a set of bloodsuckers, who were draining
the national strength. Already, in 1804, he was lamenting a change due to Pitt's funding system.
The old families, he said, were giving way to 'loanjobbers, contractors, and nabobs'; and the
country people amazed to find that their new masters had been 'butchers, bakers, bottle-corkers,
and old-clothesmen.'[185] Barings and Ricardos and their like were swallowing up the old country
gentry wholesale; and in later years he reckons up, as he rides, the changes in his own neighbourhood.[186]
His affection for the old country-gentleman might be superficial; but his lamentations over
the degradation of the peasantry sprang from his heart. It was all, in his eyes, part of one
process. Paper money, he found out, was at the bottom of it all; for paper money was the outward
and visible symbol of a gigantic system of corruption and jobbery. It represented the device
by which the hard-earned wages of the labourer were being somehow conjured away into the pockets
of Jews and stockjobbers. The classes which profited by this atrocious system formed what he
called the 'Thing'--the huge, intricate combination of knaves which was being denounced by
the Radicals--though with a difference. Cobbett could join the reformers in so far as, like
them, he thought that the rotten boroughs were a vital part of the system. He meets a miserable
labourer complaining of the 'hard times.' The harvest had been good, but its blessings were
not for the labourer. That 'accursed hill,' says Cobbett, pointing to old Sarum, 'is what has
robbed you of your supper.'[187] The labourer represented the class whose blood was being sucked.

So far, then, as the Radicals were assailing the borough-mongers, Cobbett could be their cordial
ally. Two years' imprisonment for libel embittered his feelings. In the distress which succeeded
the peace, Cobbett's voice was for a time loudest in the general hubbub. He reduced the price
of his Register, and his 'two-penny trash' reached a circulation of 25,000 or 30,000 copies.
He became a power in the land, and anticipated the immediate triumph of reform. The day was
not yet. Sidmouth's measures of repression frightened Cobbett to America (March 1819), where
he wrote his history of the 'last hundred days of English liberty.' He returned in a couple
of years, damaged in reputation and broken in fortune; but only to carry on the war with indomitable
energy, although with a recklessness and extravagance which alienated his allies and lowered
his character. He tried to cover his errors by brags and bombast, which became ridiculous,
and which are yet not without significance.

Cobbett came back from America with the relics of Paine. Paine, the object of his abuse, had
become his idol, not because Cobbett cared much for any abstract political theories, or for
religious dogmas. Paine's merit was that he had attacked paper money. To Cobbett, as to Paine,
it seemed that English banknotes were going the way of French assignats and the provincial
currency of the Americans. This became one main topic of his tirades, and represented, as he
said, the 'Alpha and Omega' of English politics. The theory was simple. The whole borough-mongering
system depended upon the inflated currency. Prick that bubble and the whole would collapse.
It was absolutely impossible, he said, that the nation should return to cash payments and continue
to pay interest on the debt. Should such a thing happen, he declared, he would 'give his poor
body up to be broiled on one of Castlereagh's widest-ribbed gridirons.'[188] The 'gridiron
prophecy' became famous; a gridiron was for long a frontispiece to the Register; and Cobbett,
far from retracting, went on proving, in the teeth of facts, that it had been fulfilled. His
inference was, not that paper should be preserved, but that the debt should be treated with
a 'sponge.'

Cobbett, therefore, was an awkward ally of political economists, whose great triumph was the
resumption of cash payments, and who regarded repudiation as the deadly sin. The burthen of
the debt, meanwhile, was so great that repudiation was well within the limits of possibility.[189]
Cobbett, in their eyes, was an advocate of the grossest dishonesty, and using the basest incentives.
Cobbett fully retorted their scorn. The economists belonged to the very class whom he most
hated. He was never tired of denouncing Scottish 'feelosophers'; he sneers at Adam Smith,[190]
and Ricardo was to him the incarnation of the stock-jobbing interest. Cobbett sympathised instinctively
with the doctrine of the French economists that agriculture was the real source of all wealth.
He nearly accepts a phrase, erroneously attributed to Windham, 'Perish Commerce'; and he argues
that commerce was, in fact, of little use, and its monstrous extension at the bottom of all
our worst evils.[191] Nobody could be more heartily opposed to the spirit which animated the
political economists and the whole class represented by them. At times he spoke the language
of modern Socialists. He defines Capital as 'money taken from the labouring classes, which,
being given to army tailors and suchlike, enables them to keep foxhounds and trace their descent
from the Normans.'[192]

The most characteristic point of his speculations is his view of the poor-laws. Nobody could
speak with more good sense and feeling of the demoralisation which they were actually producing,
of the sapping of the spirit of independence, and of all the devices by which the agricultural
labourer was losing the happiness enjoyed in early years. But Cobbett's deduction from his
principles is peculiar. 'Parson Malthus' is perhaps the favourite object of his most virulent
abuse. 'I have hated many men,' he says, 'but never any one so much as you,' 'I call you parson,'
he explains, 'because that word includes "boroughmonger" among other meanings, though no single
word could be sufficient.'[193] Cobbett rages against the phrase 'redundant population.' There
would be plenty for all if the borough-mongers and stockjobbers could be annihilated, taxes
abolished, and the debt repudiated. The ordinary palliatives suggested were little to the taste
of this remarkable Radical. The man who approved bull-fighting and supported the slave-trade
naturally sneered at 'heddekashun,' and thought savings-banks a mean device to interest the
poor in the keeping up of the funds. His remedy was always a sponge applied to the debt, and
the abolition of taxes.

This leads, however, to one remarkable conclusion. Cobbett's attack upon the church establishment
probably did more to cause alarm than any writings of the day. For Paine's attacks upon its
creed he cared little enough. 'Your religion,' said a parson to him, 'seems to be altogether
political.' It might well be, was Cobbett's retort, since his creed was made for him by act
of parliament.[194] In fact, he cared nothing for theology, though he called himself a member
of the church of England, and retained an intense dislike for Unitarians, dissenters in general,
'saints' as he called the Evangelical party, Scottish Presbyterians, and generally for all
religious sects. He looked at church questions solely from one point of view. He had learned,
it seems, from a passage in Ruggles's History of the Poor,[195] that the tithes had been originally
intended to support the poor as well as the church. Gradually, as he looked back upon the 'good
old times,' he developed the theory expounded in his History of the Reformation. It is a singular
performance, written at the period of his most reckless exasperation (1824-27), but with his
full vigour of style. He declares[196] in 1825 that he has sold forty-five thousand copies,
and it has been often reprinted. The purpose is to show that the Reformation was 'engendered
in beastly lust, brought forth in hypocrisy, and cherished and fed by plunder and devastation,
and by rivers of English and Irish blood.'[197] Briefly, it is the cause of every evil that
has happened since, including 'the debt, the banks, the stockjobbers, and the American revolution.'[198]
In proving this, Cobbett writes in the spirit of some vehement Catholic bigot, maddened by
the penal laws. Henry VIII., Elizabeth, and William III. are his monsters; the Marys of England
and Scotland his ideal martyrs. He almost apologises for the massacre of St. Bartholomew and
the Gunpowder Plot; and, in spite of his patriotism, attributes the defeat of the Armada to
a storm, for fear of praising Elizabeth. The bitterest Ultramontane of to-day would shrink
from some of this Radical's audacious statements. Cobbett, in spite of his extravagance, shows
flashes of his usual shrewdness. He remarks elsewhere that the true way of studying history
is to examine acts of parliament and lists of prices of labour and of food;[199] and he argues
upon such grounds for the prosperity of the agricultural labourer under Edward III., 'when
a dung-cart filler could get a fat goose and a half for half a day's work.' He makes some telling
hits, as when he contrasts William of Wykeham with Brownlow North, the last bishop of Winchester.
Protestants condemned celibacy. Well, had William been married, we should not have had Winchester
school, or New College; had Brownlow North been doomed to celibacy, he would not have had ten
sons and sons-in-law to share twenty-four rich livings, besides prebends and other preferments;
and perhaps he would not have sold small beer from his episcopal palace at Farnham. Cobbett's
main doctrine is that when the Catholic church flourished, the population was actually more
numerous and richer, that the care of the priests and monks made pauperism impossible, and
that ever since the hideous blunder perpetrated by the reformers everything has been going
from bad to worse. When it was retorted that the census proved the population to be growing,
he replied that the census was a lie. Were the facts truly stated, he declares, we should have
a population of near twenty-eight million in England by the end of this century,[200] a manifest
reductio ad absurdum. If it were remarked that there was a Catholic church in France, and that
Cobbett proves his case by the superiority of the English poor to the French poor, he remarked
summarily that the French laws were different.[201]

Thus, the one monster evil is the debt, and the taxes turn out to have been a Protestant invention
made necessary by the original act of plunder. That was Cobbett's doctrine, and, however perverse
might be some of his reasonings, it was clearly to the taste of a large audience. The poor-law
was merely a partial atonement for a vast and continuous process of plunder. Corrupt as might
be its actual operation, it was a part of the poor man's patrimony, extorted by fear from the
gang of robbers who fattened upon their labours.

Cobbett's theories need not be discussed from the logical or historical point of view. They
are the utterances of a man made unscrupulous by his desperate circumstances, fighting with
boundless pugnacity, ready to strike any blow, fair or foul, so long as it will vex his enemies,
and help to sell the Register. His pugnacity alienated all his friends. Not only did Whigs
and Tories agree in condemning him, but the Utilitarians hated and despised him, and his old
friends, Burnett and Hunt, were alienated from him, and reviled by him. His actual followers
were a small and insignificant remnant. Yet Cobbett, like Owen, represented in a crude fashion
blind instincts of no small importance in the coming years. And it is especially to be noted
that in one direction the philosophic Coleridge and the keen Quarterly Reviewer Southey, and
the Socialist Owen and the reactionary Radical Cobbett, were more in agreement than they knew.
What alarmed them was the vast social change indicated by the industrial revolution. In one
way or another they connected all the evils of the day with the growth of commerce and manufactures,
and the breaking up of the old system of domestic trade and village life.[202] That is to say,
that in a dumb and inarticulate logic, though in the loudest tones of denunciation, Tories
and Socialists, and nondescript Radicals were raging against the results of the great social
change, which the Utilitarians regarded as the true line of advance of the day. This gives
the deepest line of demarcation, and brings us to the political economy, which shows most fully
how the case presented itself to the true Utilitarian.

FOOTNOTES:

[80] Bain's James Mill, p. 215.

[81] Autobiography, p. 104.

[82] Miscellaneous Works (Popular Edition), p. 131. I quote from a reprint not dated.

[84] 'Government,' pp. 3-5.

[85] 'Government,' p. 8.

[86] 'Government,' p. 9.

[87] Ibid. p. 11.

[88] Ibid. p. 9.

[89] Ibid. p. 12.

[90] 'Government,' p. 9.

[91] C'est une expérience éternelle que tout homme qui a du pouvoir est porté à en abuser;
il va jusqu'à ce qu'il trouve des limites.--Esprit des Lois, Bk. xi. chap 4.

[92] 'Government,' p. 15.

[93] 'Government,' p. 7.

[94] Ibid. p. 18.

[95] 'Government,' p. 21.

[96] Ibid. p. 22

[97] Autobiography, p. 104.

[98] 'Government,' p. 28.

[99] Ibid. p. 30. Mill especially refers to the exposure of clerical artifices in Father Paul's
Council of Trent.

[100] 'Education,' p. 20

[101] Ibid. p. 45.

[102] Autobiography, p. 106.

[103] 'Government,' p. 31.

[104] Bain's James Mill, p. 392.

[105] They were reprinted in the Miscellaneous Works after Macaulay's death. I quote from the
'popular edition' of that work (1875).

[106] Miscellaneous Works, p. 166.

[107] Miscellaneous Works, p. 132.

[108] Mill's Autobiography, p. 158.

[109] 'Government,' p. 12.

[110] Miscellaneous Works, p. 169.

[111] Fragment on Mackintosh (1870), pp. 275-94.

[112] Essay on the 'Independency of Parliament.'

[113] Fragment, p. 292.

[114] Ibid. p. 276.

[115] Miscellaneous Works, p. 170.

[116] Miscellaneous Works, p. 173.

[117] Miscellaneous Works, p. 138.

[118] Miscellaneous Works, pp. 135-40.

[119] Miscellaneous Works, p. 158, and see pp. 143-47.

[120] Speeches (Popular Edition), p. 125.

[121] Ibid. p. 128.

[122] Miscellaneous Works, p. 146.

[123] Miscellaneous Works, p. 183.

[124] A full analysis of this article is in Bain's James Mill, pp. 265-75.

[125] Article upon Sheridan, reprinted in Jeffrey's Essays, iv. (1844).

[126] Table-Talk, 27th April 1823.

[127] Vindiciæ Gallicæ, in Miscellaneous Works, iii. (1846), p. 57.

[128] Mackintosh thinks it necessary to add that this parallel was suggested to him by William
Thomson (1746-1837), a literary gentleman who continued Watson's Philip III., and may, for
anything I know, deserve Mackintosh's warm eulogy.

[129] Vindiciæ Gallicæ, p. 59.

[130] Ibid. p. 51.

[131] Ibid. p. 148.

[132] Ibid. p. 68.

[133] Ibid. p. 72.

[134] Ibid. p. 125.

[135] Vindiciæ Gallicæ, p. 128.

[136] Ibid. p. 84.

[137] Ibid. p. 30.

[138] Life of Mackintosh, i. 125.

[139] Miscellaneous Works, iii. 261-65.

[140] Life, i. 309-16.

[141] See Miscellaneous Works, iii. 3.

[142] Ibid. iii. 203-38 (an article highly praised by Bagehot in his Parliamentary Reform).

[143] Miscellaneous Works, iii. 215-16.

[144] Ibid. iii. 226. Mackintosh in this article mentions the 'caucus,' and observes that the
name implies that combinations have been already formed upon 'which the future government of
the confederacy may depend more than on the forms of election, or the letter of the present
laws.' He inclines to approve the system as essential to party government.

[145] Essays (1844), i. 84-106.

[146] The famous 'Cevallos' article of 1808, said to be written by Jeffrey and Brougham (Macvey
Napier's Correspondence, p. 308), gave the immediate cause of starting the Quarterly; and,
according to Brougham, first gave a distinctly Liberal character to the Edinburgh. For Jeffrey's
desire to avoid 'party politics,' see Lockhart's Life of Scott, M. Napier's Correspondence,
p. 435, and Homer's Memoirs (1853), i. 464.

[147] April 1805; reprinted in Essays, ii. 38, etc., to show, as he says, how early he had
taken up his view of the French revolution.

[148] Sydney Smith complains in his correspondence of this article as exaggerating the power
of the aristocracy.

[149] Essays, iv. 29.

[150] I need not speak of Brougham, then the most conspicuous advocate of Whiggism. He published
in 1843 a Political Philosophy, which, according to Lord Campbell, killed the 'Society for
the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge.' No such hypothesis is necessary to account for the death
of a society encumbered by a 'Dictionary of Universal Biography.' But the book was bad enough
to kill, if a collection of outworn platitudes can produce that effect.

[151] Bentham's Works, x. 536.

[152] Colloquies, i. 253.

[153] Colloquies, i. 171.

[154] Ibid. i. 178.

[155] Ibid. i. 169.

[156] Ibid. i. 167.

[157] Ibid. i. 170.

[158] Ibid. i. 194.

[159] Ibid. ii. 247.

[160] Colloquies, ii. 259.

[161] Ibid. i. 109.

[162] Ibid. ii. 105-7.

[163] Ibid. i. 106.

[164] Ibid. i. 47.

[165] Life and Correspondence, iv. 195; Selections, iii. 45.

[166] Colloquies, i. 62.

[167] Colloquies, i. 135.

[168] Ibid. ii. 147. Southey is here almost verbally following Burke's Reflections.

[169] Life and Correspondence, v. 4-6.

[170] Colloquies, i. 105.

[171] On the Constitution of Church and State, according to the idea of each, 1852 (fourth
edition).

[172] Church and State, p. 100.

[173] Ibid. p. 97.

[174] Church and State, p. 85.

[175] Ibid. p. 67.

[176] Church and State, p. 142.

[177] Ibid. pp. 75-79.

[178] Colloquies, i. 37.

[179] See an early account of Dale (in 1798) in Sydney Smith's Life and Letters, i. 35, and
another in Wilberforce's Correspondence (1840), i. 137 (in 1796).

[180] Printed in Political Works, i. 302.

[181] Political Works, v. 313; vi. 579.

[182] Political Works, i. 473; v. 319.

[183] Ibid. ii. 285.

[184] Political Works, ii. 28; iv. 388.

[185] Ibid. i. 443.

[186] Rural Rides (1853), p. 311.

[187] Rural Rides, p. 386.

[188] Political Works, v. 436 (22nd July 1819).

[189] Even M'Culloch had recommended a partial repudiation.

[190] Political Works, iv. 237.

[191] Ibid. ii. 19, 107, 250, 346; and iii. 423. See Parliamentary History, xxx., where the
first use of the phrase by Hardinge is reported.

[192] Political Works, vi. 176.

[193] Ibid. 395.

[194] Rural Rides, p. 446.

[195] He complains bitterly that Ruggles had suppressed this in a second edition. Protestant
Reformation (1850), ii., Introduction.

[196] Political Register, 29th Jan. 1825.

[197] Protestant Reformation, p. 13.

[198] Ibid. p. 262.

[199] Advice to Young Men, p. 8.

[200] Political Works, v. 405. If our census be not a lie, there were twenty-seven million
Englishmen in 1891.

[201] Protestant Reformation, i. 311.

[202] Coleridge in a letter to Allsop (Conversations, etc., i. 20) approves one of Cobbett's
articles, because it popularises the weighty truth of the 'hollowness of commercial wealth.'
Cobbett, he sadly reflects, is an overmatch for Liverpool. See Cobbett's Political Works, v. 466 n.

CHAPTER IV

MALTHUS

I. MALTHUS'S STARTING-POINT

The political movement represented the confluence of many different streams of agitation. Enormous
social changes had generated multifarious discontent. New wants and the new strains and stresses
between the various parts of the political mechanism required new adaptations. But, if it were
inquired what was the precise nature of the evils, and how the reform of parliament was to
operate, the most various answers might be given. A most important line of division did not
coincide with the line between the recognised parties. One wing of the Radicals agreed with
many Conservatives in attributing the great evils of the day to the industrial movement and
the growth of competition. The middle-class Whigs and the Utilitarians were, on the contrary,
in thorough sympathy with the industrial movement, and desired to limit the functions of government,
and trust to self-help and free competition. The Socialistic movement appeared for the present
to be confined to a few dreamers and demagogues. The Utilitarians might approve the spirit
of the Owenites, but held their schemes to be chimerical. Beneath the political controversies
there was therefore a set of problems to be answered; and the Utilitarian answer defines their
distinction from Radicals of a different and, as they would have said, unphilosophical school.

What, then, was the view really taken by the Utilitarians of these underlying problems? They
not only had a very definite theory in regard to them, but in working it out achieved perhaps
their most important contribution to speculation. Beneath a political theory lies, or ought
to lie, what we now call a 'sociology'--a theory of that structure of society which really
determines the character and the working of political institutions. The Utilitarian theory
was embodied in their political economy. I must try to define as well as I can what were the
essential first principles implied, without going into the special problems which would be
relevant in a history of political economy.

The two leading names in the literature of political economy during the first quarter of this
century were undoubtedly Malthus and Ricardo. Thomas Robert Malthus[203] (1766-1834) was not
one of the Utilitarian band. As a clergyman, he could not share their opinion of the Thirty-nine
Articles. Moreover, he was a Whig, not a Radical; and he was even tainted with some economic
heresy. Still, he became one of the prophets, if not the leading prophet, of the Utilitarians.
Belief in the Malthusian theory of population was the most essential article of their faith,
and marked the line of cleavage between the two wings of the Radical party.

Malthus was the son of a country gentleman in Surrey. His father was a man of studious habits,
and one of the enthusiastic admirers of Rousseau. His study of Émile probably led to the rather
desultory education of his son. The boy, after being taught at home, was for a time a pupil
of R. Graves (1715-1804), author of the Spiritual Quixote, a Whig clergyman who was at least
orthodox enough to ridicule Methodism. Malthus was next sent to attend Gilbert Wakefield's
lectures at the Warrington 'Academy,' the Unitarian place of education, and in 1784 went to
Jesus College, Cambridge, of which Wakefield had been a fellow. For Wakefield, who had become
a Unitarian, and who was afterwards a martyr to political Radicalism, he appears to have retained
a strong respect. At Jesus, again, Malthus was under Frend, who also was to join the Unitarians.
Malthus was thus brought up under the influences of the modified rationalism which was represented
by the Unitarians outside the establishment and by Paley within. Coleridge was at Jesus while
Malthus was still a fellow, and there became an ardent admirer of Priestley, Malthus remained
within the borders of the church. Its yoke was light enough, and he was essentially predisposed
to moderate views. He took his degree as ninth wrangler in 1788, became a fellow of his college
in 1793, took orders, and in 1798 was curate of Albury, near his father's house in Surrey.
Malthus's home was within a walk of Farnham, where Cobbett had been born and passed his childhood.
He had, therefore, before his eyes the same agricultural labourer whose degradation excited
Cobbett to Radicalism. Very different views were suggested to Malthus. The revolutionary doctrine
was represented in England by the writings of Godwin, whose Political Justice appeared in 1793
and Enquirer in 1797. These books naturally afforded topics for discussion between Malthus
and his father. The usual relations between senior and junior were inverted; the elder Malthus,
as became a follower of Rousseau, was an enthusiast; and the younger took the part of suggesting
doubts and difficulties. He resolved to put down his arguments upon paper, in order to clear
his mind; and the result was the Essay upon Population, of which the first edition appeared
anonymously in 1798.

The argument upon which Malthus relied was already prepared for him. The dreams of the revolutionary
enthusiasts supposed either a neglect of the actual conditions of human life or a belief that
those conditions could be radically altered by the proposed political changes. The cooler reasoner
was entitled to remind them that they were living upon solid earth, not in dreamland. The difficulty
of realising Utopia may be presented in various ways. Malthus took a point which had been noticed
by Godwin. In the conclusion of his Political Justice,[204] while taking a final glance at
the coming millennium, Godwin refers to a difficulty suggested by Robert Wallace. Wallace had[205]
said that all the evils under which mankind suffers might be removed by a community of property,
were it not that such a state of things would lead to an 'excessive population.' Godwin makes
light of the difficulty. He thinks that there is some 'principle in human society by means
of which everything tends to find its own level and proceed in the most auspicious way, when
least interfered with by the mode of regulation.' Anyhow, there is plenty of room on the earth,
at present. Population may increase for 'myriads of centuries.' Mind, as Franklin has said,
may become 'omnipotent over matter';[206] life may be indefinitely prolonged; our remote descendants
who have filled the earth 'will probably cease to propagate';[207] they will not have the trouble
of making a fresh start at every generation; and in those days there will be 'no war, no crimes,
no administration of justice'; and moreover, 'no disease, anguish, melancholy, or resentment.'
Briefly, we shall be like the angels, only without the needless addition of a supreme ruler.
Similar ideas were expressed in Condorcet's famous Tableau historique des progrès de l'esprit
humain,[208] written while he was in daily fear of death by the guillotine, and so giving the
most striking instance on record of the invincibility of an idealist conviction under the hardest
pressure of facts.

The argument of Malthus is a product of the whole previous course of speculation. The question
of population had occupied the French economists. The profound social evils of France gave
the starting-point of their speculations; and one of the gravest symptoms had been the decay
of population under the last years of Louis XIV. Their great aim was to meet this evil by encouraging
agriculture. It could not escape the notice of the simplest observer that if you would have
more mouths you must provide more food, unless, as some pious people assumed, that task might
be left to Providence. Quesnay had laid it down as one of his axioms that the statesman should
aim at providing sustenance before aiming simply at stimulating population. It follows, according
to Gulliver's famous maxim, that the man who makes two blades of grass grow where one grew
before deserves better of his country than the 'whole race of politicians put together.' Other
writers, in developing this thesis, had dwelt upon the elasticity of population. Mirabeau replies
to Hume's essay upon the 'Populousness of ancient nations' (1752), of which Wallace's first
treatise was a criticism. The problem discussed by Hume and Wallace had been comparatively
academical; but by Malthus's time the question had taken a more practical shape. The sentimentalists
denounced luxury as leading to a decay of the population. Although, as we are now aware, the
population was in fact increasing rapidly, the belief prevailed among political writers that
it was actually declining. Trustworthy statistics did not exist. In 1753 John Potter, son of
the archbishop, proposed to the House of Commons a plan for a census. A violent discussion
arose,[211] in the course of which it was pointed out that the plan would inevitably lead to
the adoption of the 'canvas frock and wooden shoes.' Englishmen would lose their liberty, become
French slaves, and, when counted, would no doubt be taxed and forcibly enlisted. The bill passed
the House of Commons in spite of such reasoning, but was thrown out by the House of Lords.
Till the first census was taken in 1801--a period at which the absolute necessity of such knowledge
had become obvious--the most elementary facts remained uncertain. Was population increasing
or decreasing? That surely might be ascertainable.

Richard Price (1723-1791) was not only a distinguished moralist and a leading politician, but
perhaps the best known writer of his time upon statistical questions. He had the credit of
suggesting Pitt's sinking fund,[212] and spoke with the highest authority upon facts and figures.
Price argued in 1780[213] that the population of England had diminished by one-fourth since
the revolution of 1688. A sharp controversy followed upon the few ascertainable data. The vagueness
of the results shows curiously how much economists had to argue in the dark. Malthus observes
in his first edition that he had been convinced by reading Price that population was restrained
by 'vice and misery,' as results, not of political institutions, but of 'our own creation.'[214]
This gives the essential point of difference. Mirabeau had declared that the population of
all Europe was decaying. Hume's essay, which he criticises, had been in answer to a similar
statement of Montesquieu. Price had learned that other countries were increasing in number,
though England, he held, was still declining. What, then, was the cause? The cause, replied
both Price and Mirabeau, was 'luxury,' to which Price adds the specially English evils of the
'engrossment of farms' and the enclosure of open fields. Price had to admit that the English
towns had increased; but this was an additional evil. The towns increased simply by draining
the country; and in the towns themselves the deaths exceeded the births. The great cities were
the graves of mankind. This opinion was strongly held, too, by Arthur Young, who ridiculed
the general fear of depopulation, and declared that if money were provided, you could always
get labour, but who looked upon the towns as destructive cancers in the body politic.

The prevalence of this view explains Malthus's position. To attribute depopulation to luxury
was to say that it was caused by the inequality of property. The rich man wasted the substance
of the country, became demoralised himself, and both corrupted and plundered his neighbours.
The return to a 'state of nature,' in Rousseau's phrase, meant the return to a state of things
in which this misappropriation should become impossible. The whole industry of the nation would
then be devoted to supporting millions of honest, simple peasants and labourers, whereas it
now went to increasing the splendour of the great at the expense of the poor. Price enlarges
upon this theme, which was, in fact, the contemporary version of the later formula that the
rich are growing richer and the poor poorer. The immediate effect of equalising property, then,
would be an increase of population. It was the natural retort, adopted by Malthus, that such
an increase would soon make everybody poor, instead of making every one comfortable. Population,
the French economists had said, follows subsistence. Will it not multiply indefinitely? The
rapid growth of population in America was noticed by Price and Godwin; and the theory had been
long before expanded by Franklin, in a paper which Malthus quotes in his later editions. 'There
is no bound,' said Franklin in 1751,[215] 'to the prolific nature of plants and animals but
what is made by their crowding and interfering with each other's means of subsistence.' The
whole earth, he infers, might be overspread with fennel, for example, or, if empty of men,
replenished in a few ages with Englishmen. There were supposed to be already one million of
Englishmen in North America. If they doubled once in twenty-five years, they would in a century
exceed the number of Englishmen at home. This is identical with Mirabeau's principle of the
multiplying of rats in a barn. Population treads closely on the heels of subsistence. Work
out your figures and see the results.[216]

Malthus's essay in the first edition was mainly an application of this retort, and though the
logic was effective as against Godwin, he made no elaborate appeal to facts. Malthus soon came
to see that a more precise application was desirable. It was clearly desirable to know whether
population was or was not actually increasing, and under what conditions. I have spoken of
the contemporary labours of Sinclair, Young, Sir F. Eden, and others. To collect statistics
was plainly one of the essential conditions of settling the controversy. Malthus in 1799 travelled
on the continent to gather information, and visited Sweden, Norway, Russia, and Germany. The
peace of Amiens enabled him in 1802 to visit France and Switzerland. He inquired everywhere
into the condition of the people, collected such statistical knowledge as was then possible,
and returned to digest it into a elaborate treatise. Meanwhile, the condition of England was
giving a fresh significance to the argument. The first edition had been published at the critical
time when the poor-law was being relaxed, and disastrous results were following war and famine.
The old complaint that the poor-law was causing depopulation was being changed for the complaint
that it was stimulating pauperism. The first edition already discussed this subject, which
was occupying all serious thinkers; it was now to receive a fuller treatment. The second edition,
greatly altered, appeared in 1803, and made Malthus a man of authority. His merits were recognised
by his appointment in 1805 to the professorship of history and political economy at the newly
founded East India College at Haileybury. There he remained till the end of his life, which
was placid, uneventful, and happy. He made a happy marriage in 1804; and his calm temperament
enabled him to bear an amount of abuse which might have broken the health of a more irritable
man. Cobbett's epithet, 'parson Malthus,' strikes the keynote. He was pictured as a Christian
priest denouncing charity, and proclaiming the necessity of vice and misery. He had the ill
luck to be the centre upon which the antipathies of Jacobin and anti-Jacobin converged. Cobbett's
language was rougher than Southey's; but the poet-laureate and the author of 'two-penny trash'
were equally vehement in sentiment. Malthus, on the other hand, was accepted by the political
economists, both Whig and Utilitarian. Horner and Mackintosh, lights of the Whigs, were his
warm friends as well as his disciples. He became intimate with Ricardo, and he was one of the
original members of the Political Economy Club. He took abuse imperturbably; was never vexed
'after the first fortnight' by the most unfair attack; and went on developing his theories,
lecturing his students, and improving later editions of his treatise. Malthus died on 23rd
December 1834.

II. THE RATIOS

The doctrine marks a critical point in political economy. Malthus's opponents, as Mr. Bonar
remarks,[217] attacked him alternately for propounding a truism and for maintaining a paradox.
A 'truism' is not useless so long as its truth is not admitted. It would be the greatest of
achievements to enunciate a law self-evident as soon as formulated, and yet previously ignored
or denied. Was this the case of Malthus? Or did he really startle the world by clothing a commonplace
in paradox, and then explain away the paradox till nothing but the commonplace was left?

Malthus laid down in his first edition a proposition which continued to be worried by all his
assailants. Population, he said, when unchecked, increases in the geometrical ratio; the means
of subsistence increase only in an arithmetical ratio. Geometrical ratios were just then in
fashion.[218] Price had appealed to their wonderful ways in his arguments about the sinking
fund; and had pointed out that a penny put out to 5 per cent. compound interest at the birth
of Christ would, in the days of Pitt, have been worth some millions of globes of solid gold,
each as big as the earth. Both Price and Malthus lay down a proposition which can easily be
verified by the multiplication-table. If, as Malthus said, population doubles in twenty-five
years, the number in two centuries would be to the present number as 256 to 1, and in three
as 4096 to 1. If, meanwhile, the quantity of subsistence increased in 'arithmetical progression,'
the multipliers for it would be only 9 and 13. It follows that, in the year 2003, two hundred
and fifty-six persons will have to live upon what now supports nine. So far, the case is clear.
But how does the argument apply to facts? For obvious reasons, Price's penny could not become
even one solid planet of gold. Malthus's population is also clearly impossible. That is just
his case. The population of British North America was actually, when he wrote, multiplying
at the assigned rate. What he pointed out was that such a rate must somehow be stopped; and
his question was, how precisely will it be stopped? The first proposition, he says[219] (that
is, that population increased geometrically), 'I considered as proved the moment that the American
increase was related; and the second as soon as enunciated.' To say that a population increases
geometrically, in fact, is simply to say that it increases at a fixed rate. The arithmetical
increase corresponds to a statement which Malthus, at any rate, might regard as undeniable;
namely, that in a country already fully occupied, the possibility of increasing produce is
restricted within much narrower limits. In a 'new country,' as in the American colonies, the
increase of food might proceed as rapidly as the increase of population. Improved methods of
cultivation, or the virtual addition of vast tracts of fertile territory by improved means
of communication, may of course add indefinitely to the resources of a population. But Malthus
was contemplating a state of things in which the actual conditions limited the people to an
extraction of greater supplies from a strictly limited area. Whether Malthus assumed too easily
that this represented the normal case may be questionable. At any rate, it was not only possible
but actual in the England of the time. His problem was very much to the purpose. His aim was
to trace the way in which the population of a limited region is prevented from increasing geometrically.
If the descendants of Englishmen increase at a certain rate in America, why do they not increase
equally in England? That, it must be admitted, is a fair scientific problem. Finding that two
races of similar origin, and presumably like qualities, increase at different rates, we have
to investigate the causes of the difference.

Malthus answered the problem in the simplest and most consistent way in his first edition.
What are the checks? The ultimate check would clearly be starvation. A population might multiply
till it had not food. But before this limit is actually reached, it will suffer in various
ways from scarcity. Briefly, the checks may be distinguished into the positive, that is, actual
distress, and the preventive, or 'foresight.' We shall actually suffer unless we are restrained
by the anticipation of suffering. As a fact, however, he thinks that men are but little influenced
by the prudence which foresees sufferings. They go on multiplying till the consequences are
realised. You may be confined in a room, to use one of his illustrations,[220] though the walls
do not touch you; but human beings are seldom satisfied till they have actually knocked their
heads against the wall. He sums up his argument in the first edition in three propositions.[221]
Population is limited by the means of subsistence; that is obvious; population invariably increases
when the means of subsistence are increased; that is shown by experience to be practically
true; and therefore, finally, the proportion is maintained by 'misery and vice.' That is the
main conclusion which not unnaturally startled the world. Malthus always adhered in some sense
to the main doctrine, though he stated explicitly some reserves already implicitly involved.
A writer must not be surprised if popular readers remember the unguarded and dogmatic utterances
which give piquancy to a theory, and overlook the latent qualifications which, when fully expressed,
make it approximate to a commonplace. The political bearing of his reasoning is significant.
The application of Godwin's theories of equality would necessarily, as he urges, stimulate
an excessive population. To meet the consequent evils, two measures would be obviously necessary;
private property must be instituted in order to stimulate prudence; and marriage must be instituted
to make men responsible for the increase of the population. These institutions are necessary,
and they make equality impossible. Weak, then, as foresight may be with most men, the essential
social institutions have been developed by the necessity of enabling foresight to exercise
some influence; and thus indirectly societies have in fact grown in wealth and numbers through
arrangements which have by one and the same action strengthened prudence and created inequality.
Although this is clearly implied, the main impression produced upon Malthus's readers was that
he held 'vice and misery' to be essential to society; nay, that in some sense he regarded them
as blessings. He was accused, as he tells us,[222] of objecting to vaccination, because it
tended to prevent deaths from small-pox, and has to protest against some one who had declared
his principles to be favourable to the slave trade.[223] He was represented, that is, as holding
depopulation to be good in itself. These perversions were grotesque, but partly explain the
horror with which Malthus was constantly regarded; and we must consider what made them plausible.

I must first notice the maturer form of his doctrine. In the second edition he turns to account
the result of his later reading, his personal observations, and the statistical results which
were beginning to accumulate. The remodelled book opens with a survey of the observed action
of the checks; and it concludes with a discussion of the 'moral restraint' which is now added
to 'vice and misery.' Although considerable fragments of the old treatise remained to the last,
the whole book was altered both in style and character. The style certainly suffers, for Malthus
was not a master of the literary art; he inserts his additions with little care for the general
effect. He tones down some of the more vivid phrases which had given offence, though he does
not retract the substance. A famous passage[224] in the second edition, in which he speaks
of 'nature's mighty feast,' where, unluckily, the 'table is already full,' and therefore unbidden
guests are left to starve, was suppressed in the later editions. Yet the principle that no
man has a claim to subsistence as of right remains unaltered. The omission injures the literary
effect without altering the logic; and I think that, where the argument is amended, the new
element is scarcely worked into the old so as to gain thorough consistency.

Malthus's survey of different countries showed how various are the 'checks' by which population
is limited in various countries. We take a glance at all nations through all epochs of history.
In the South Sea we find a delicious climate and a fertile soil, where population is mainly
limited by vice, infanticide, and war; and where, in spite of these influences, the population
multiplies at intervals till it is killed off by famine. In China, a vast and fertile territory,
inhabited by an industrious race, in which agriculture has always been encouraged, marriage
stimulated, and property widely diffused, has facilitated the production of a vast population
in the most abject state of poverty, driven to expose children by want, and liable at intervals
to destructive famines. In modern Europe, the checks appear in the most various forms; in Switzerland
and Norway a frugal population in small villages sometimes instinctively understands the principle
of population, and exhibits the 'moral restraint,' while in England the poor-laws are producing
a mass of hopeless and inert pauperism. Consideration of these various cases, and a comparison
of such records as are obtainable of the old savage races, of the classical states of antiquity,
of the Northern barbarians and of the modern European nations, suggests a natural doubt. Malthus
abundantly proves what can hardly be denied, that population has everywhere been found to press
upon the means of subsistence, and that vice and misery are painfully abundant. But does he
establish or abandon his main proposition? He now asserts the 'tendency' of population to outrun
the means of subsistence. Yet he holds unequivocally that the increase of population has been
accompanied by an increased comfort; that want has diminished although population has increased;
and that the 'preventive' check is stronger than of old in proportion to the positive check.
Scotland, he says,[225] is 'still overpeopled, but not so much as when it contained fewer inhabitants.'
Many nations, as he points out in general terms, have been most prosperous when most populous.[226]
They could export food when crowded, and have ceased to import it when thinned. This, indeed,
expresses his permanent views, though the facts were often alleged by his critics as a disproof
of them. Was not the disproof real? Does not a real evasion lurk under the phrase 'tendency'?
You may say that the earth has a tendency to fall into the sun, and another 'tendency' to move
away from the sun. But it would be absurd to argue that we were therefore in danger of being
burnt or of being frozen. To explain the law of a vital process, we may have to analyse it,
and therefore to regard it as due to conflicting forces; but the forces do not really exist
separately, and in considering the whole concrete phenomenon we must take them as mutually
implied. A man has a 'tendency' to grow too fat; and another 'tendency' to grow too thin. That
surely means that on the whole he has a 'tendency' to preserve the desirable mean. The phrase,
then, can only have a distinct meaning when the conflicting forces represent two independent
or really separable forces. To use an illustration given by Malthus, we might say that a man
had a 'tendency' to grow upwards; but was restrained by a weight on his head. The man has the
'tendency,' because we may regard the weight as a separable accident. When both forces are
of the essence, the separate 'tendencies' correspond merely to our way of analysing the fact.
But if one can be properly regarded as relatively accidental, the 'tendency' means the way
in which the other will manifest itself in actual cases.

In 1829, Senior put this point to Malthus.[227] What, he asked, do you understand by a 'tendency'
when you admit that the tendency is normally overbalanced by others? Malthus explains his meaning
to be that every nation suffers from evils 'specifically arising from the pressure of population
against food.' The wages of the labourer in old countries have never been sufficient to enable
him to maintain a large family at ease. There is overcrowding, we may say, in England now as
there was in England at the Conquest; though food has increased in a greater proportion than
population; and the pressure has therefore taken a milder form. This, again, is proved by the
fact that, whenever a relaxation of the pressure has occurred, when plagues have diminished
population, or improvements in agriculture increased their supply of food, the gap has been
at once filled up. The people have not taken advantage of the temporary relaxation of the check
to preserve the new equilibrium, but have taken out the improvement by a multiplication of
numbers. The statement then appears to be that at any given time the population is in excess.
Men would be better off if they were less numerous. But, on the other hand, the tendency to
multiply does not represent a constant force, an irresistible instinct which will always bring
men down to the same level, but something which, in fact, may vary materially. Malthus admits,
in fact, that the 'elasticity' is continually changing; and therefore repudiates the interpretation
which seemed to make all improvement hopeless. Why, then, distinguish the 'check' as something
apart from the instinct? If, in any case, we accept this explanation, does not the theory become
a 'truism,' or at least a commonplace, inoffensive but hardly instructive? Does it amount to
more than the obvious statement that prudence and foresight are desirable and are unfortunately
scarce?

III. MORAL RESTRAINT

The change in the theory of 'checks' raises another important question. Malthus now introduced
a modification upon which his supporters laid great stress. In the new version the 'checks'
which proportion population to means of subsistence are not simply 'vice and misery,' but 'moral
restraint, vice, and misery.'[228] How, precisely, does this modify the theory? How are the
different 'checks' related? What especially is meant by 'moral' in this connection? Malthus
takes his ethical philosophy pretty much for granted, but is clearly a Utilitarian according
to the version of Paley.[229] He agrees with Paley that 'virtue evidently consists in educing
from the materials which the Creator has placed under our guidance the greatest sum of human
happiness.'[230] He adds to this that our 'natural impulses are, abstractedly considered, good,
and only to be distinguished by their consequences.' Hunger, he says, as Bentham had said,
is the same in itself, whether it leads to stealing a loaf or to eating your own loaf. He agrees
with Godwin that morality means the 'calculation of consequences,'[231] or, as he says with
Paley, implies the discovery of the will of God by observing the effect of actions upon happiness.
Reason then regulates certain innate and practically unalterable instincts by enabling us to
foretell their consequences. The reasonable man is influenced not simply by the immediate gratification,
but by a forecast of all the results which it will entail. In these matters Malthus was entirely
at one with the Utilitarians proper, and seems to regard their doctrine as self-evident.

He notices briefly one logical difficulty thus introduced. The 'checks' are vice, misery, and
moral restraint. But why distinguish vice from misery? Is not conduct vicious which causes
misery,[232] and precisely because it causes misery? He replies that to omit 'vice' would confuse
our language. Vicious conduct may cause happiness in particular cases; though its general tendency
would be pernicious. The answer is not very clear; and Malthus, I think, would have been more
logical if he had stuck to his first theory, and regarded vice as simply one form of imprudence.
Misery, that is, or the fear of misery, and the indulgence in conduct which produces misery
are the 'checks' which limit population; and the whole problem is to make the ultimate sanction
more operative upon the immediate conduct. Man becomes more virtuous simply as he becomes more
prudent, and is therefore governed in his conduct by recognising the wider and more remote
series of consequences. There is, indeed, the essential difference that the virtuous man acts
(on whatever motives) from a regard to the 'greatest happiness of the greatest number,' and
not simply from self-regard. Still the ultimate and decisive criterion is the tendency of conduct
to produce misery; and if Malthus had carried this through as rigorously as Bentham, he would
have been more consistent. The 'moral check' would then have been simply a department of the
prudential; including prudence for others as well as for ourselves. One reason for the change
is obvious. His assumption enables him to avoid coming into conflict with the accepted morality
of the time. On his exposition 'vice' occasionally seems not to be productive of misery but
an alternative to misery; and yet something bad in itself. Is this consistent with his Utilitarianism?
The vices of the South Sea Islanders, according to him, made famine less necessary; and, if
they gave pleasure at the moment, were they not on the whole beneficial? Malthus again reckons
among vices practices which limit the population without causing 'misery' directly.[233] Could
he logically call them vicious? He wishes to avoid the imputation of sanctioning such practices,
and therefore condemns them by his moral check; but it would be hard to prove that he was consistent
in condemning them. Or, again, there is another familiar difficulty. The Catholic church encourages
marriage as a remedy for vice; and thereby stimulates both population and poverty. How would
Malthus solve the problem: is it better to encourage chastity and a superabundance of people,
or to restrict marriage at the cost of increasing temptation to vice? He seems to evade the
point by saying that he recommends both chastity and abstinence from marriage. By 'moral restraint,'
as he explains, he means 'restraint from marriage from prudential motives, with a conduct strictly
moral during the period of this restraint.' 'I have never,' he adds, 'intentionally deviated
from this sense.'[234] A man, that is, should postpone taking a wife, and should not console
himself by taking a mistress. He is to refrain from increasing the illegitimate as well as
from increasing the legitimate population. It is not surprising that Malthus admits that this
check has 'in past ages operated with inconsiderable force.'[235] In fact Malthus, as a thoroughly
respectable and decent clergyman, manages by talking about the 'moral restraint' rather to
evade than to answer some awkward problems of conduct; but at the cost of some inconsequence.

But another result of this mode of patching up his argument is more important. The 'vices of
mankind,' he says in an unusually rhetorical summary of his historical inquiry,[236] 'are active
and able ministers of depopulation. They are the precursors in the great army of destruction,
and often finish the dreadful work themselves. But should they fail in the war of extermination,
sickly seasons, epidemics, pestilence, and plague advance in terrific array, and sweep off
their thousands and ten thousands. Should success still be incomplete, gigantic inevitable
famine stalks in the rear, and at one mighty blow levels the population with the food of the
world.' The life of the race, then, is a struggle with misery; its expansion is constantly
forcing it upon this array of evils; and in proportion to the elasticity is the severity of
the evils which follow. This is not only a 'gloomy view,' but again seems to suggest that 'vice'
is an alternative to 'misery.' Vices are bad, it would seem, but at least they obviate the
necessity for disease and famine. Malthus probably suppressed the passage because he thought
it liable to this interpretation. It indicates, however, a real awkwardness, if not something
more, in his exposition. He here speaks as if there was room for a fixed number of guests at
his banquet. Whatever, therefore, keeps the population to that limit must be so far good. If
he had considered his 'moral check' more thoroughly, he might have seen that this does not
correspond to his real meaning. The 'moral' and the prudential checks are not really to be
contrasted as alternative, but co-operative. Every population, vicious or virtuous, must of
course proportion its numbers to its means of support. That gives the prudential check. But
the moral check operates by altering the character of the population itself. From the purely
economic point of view, vice is bad because it lowers efficiency. A lazy, drunken, and profligate
people would starve where an industrious, sober, and honest people would thrive. The check
of vice thus brings the check of misery into play at an earlier stage. It limits by lowering
the vitality and substituting degeneration for progress. The check, therefore, is essentially
mischievous. Though it does not make the fields barren, it lowers the power of cultivation.
Malthus had recognised this when he pointed out, as we have seen, that emergence from the savage
state meant the institution of marriage and property and, we may infer, the correlative virtues
of chastity, industry, and honesty. If men can form large societies, and millions can be supported
where once a few thousands were at starvation point, it is due to the civilisation which at
every stage implies 'moral restraint' in a wider sense than Malthus used the phrase. An increase
of population by such means was, of course, to be desired. If Malthus emphasises this inadequately,
it is partly, no doubt, because the Utilitarian view of morality tended to emphasise the external
consequences rather than the alteration of the man himself. Yet the wider and sounder view
is logically implied in his reasoning--so much so that he might have expressed his real aim
more clearly if he had altered the order of his argument. He might have consistently taken
the same line as earlier writers and declared that he desired, above all things, the increase
of population. He would have had indeed to explain that he desired the increase of a sound
and virtuous population; and that hasty and imprudent increase led to misery and to a demoralisation
which would ultimately limit numbers in the worst way. We shall see directly how nearly he
accepts this view. Meanwhile, by insisting upon the need of limitation, he was led to speak
often as if limitation by any means was good and the one thing needful, and the polemic against
Godwin in the first edition had given prominence to this side of the question. Had he put his
views in a different shape, he would perhaps have been so edifying that he would have been
disregarded. He certainly avoided that risk, and had whatever advantage is gained by stating
sound doctrine paradoxically.

We shall, I think, appreciate his real position better by considering his approximation to
the theory which, as we know, was suggested to Darwin by a perusal of Malthus.[237] There is
a closer resemblance than appears at first. The first edition concludes by two chapters afterwards
omitted, giving the philosophical application of his theory. He there says that the 'world
is a mighty process of God not for the trial but for the creation and formation of the mind.'[238]
It is not, as Butler thought, a place of 'probation,' but a scene in which the higher qualities
are gradually developed. Godwin had quoted Franklin's view that 'mind' would become 'omnipotent
over matter.' Malthus holds that, as he puts it, 'God is making matter into mind.' The difference
is that Malthus regards evil in general not as a sort of accident of which we can get rid by
reason; but as the essential stimulus which becomes the efficient cause of intellectual activity.
The evils from which men suffer raise savage tribes from their indolence, and by degrees give
rise to the growth of civilisation. The argument, though these chapters were dropped by Malthus,
was taken up by J. B. Sumner, to whom he refers in later editions.[239] It is, in fact, an
imperfect way of stating a theory of evolution. This appears in his opening chapters upon the
'moral restraint.'[240] He explains that moral and physical evils are 'instruments employed
by the Deity' to admonish us against such conduct as is destructive of happiness. Diseases
are indications that we have broken a law of nature. The plague of London was properly interpreted
by our ancestors as a hint to improve the sanitary conditions of the town. Similarly, we have
to consider the consequences of obeying our instincts. The desire of food and necessaries is
the most powerful of these instincts, and next to it the passion between the sexes. They are
both good, for they are both natural; but they have to be properly correlated. To 'virtuous
love' in particular we owe the 'sunny spots' in our lives, where the imagination loves to bask.
Desire of necessaries gives us the stimulus of the comfortable fireside; and love adds the
wife and children, without whom the fireside would lose half its charm. Now, as a rule, the
sexual passion is apt to be in excess. The final cause of this excess is itself obvious. We
cannot but conceive that it is an object of 'the Creator that the earth should be replenished.'[241]
To secure that object, it is necessary that 'there should be a tendency in the population to
increase faster than food.' If the two instincts were differently balanced, men would be content
though the population of a fertile region were limited to the most trifling numbers. Hence
the instinct has mercifully been made so powerful as to stimulate population, and thus indirectly
and eventually to produce a population at once larger and more comfortable. On the one hand,
it is of the very utmost importance to the happiness of mankind that they should not increase
too fast,[242] but, on the other hand, if the passion were weakened, the motives which make
a man industrious and capable of progress would be diminished also. It would, of course, be
simpler to omit the 'teleology'; to say that sanitary regulations are made necessary by the
plague, not that the plague is divinely appointed to encourage sanitary regulations. Malthus
is at the point of view of Paley which becomes Darwinism when inverted; but the conclusion
is much the same. He reaches elsewhere, in fact, a more precise view of the value of the 'moral
restraint.' In a chapter devoted for once to an ideal state of things,[243] he shows how a
race thoroughly imbued with that doctrine would reconcile the demands of the two instincts.
Population would in that case increase, but, instead of beginning by an increase, it would
begin by providing the means of supporting. No man would become a father until he had seen
his way to provide for a family. The instinct which leads to increasing the population would
thus be intrinsically as powerful as it now is; but when regulated by prudence it would impel
mankind to begin at the right end. Food would be ready before mouths to eat it.

IV. SOCIAL REMEDIES

This final solution appears in Malthus's proposed remedies for the evils of the time. Malthus[244]
declares that 'an increase of population when it follows in its natural order is both a great
positive good in itself, and absolutely necessary' to an increase of wealth. This natural order
falls in, as he observes, with the view to which Mirabeau had been converted, that 'revenue
was the source of population,' and not population of revenue.[245] Malthus holds specifically
that, 'in the course of some centuries,' the population of England might be doubled or trebled,
and yet every man be 'much better fed and clothed than he is at present.'[246] He parts company
with Paley, who had considered the ideal state to be 'that of a laborious frugal people ministering
to the demands of an opulent luxurious nation.'[247] That, says Malthus, is 'not an inviting
prospect.' Nothing but a conviction of absolute necessity could reconcile us to the 'thought
of ten millions of people condemned to incessant toil, and to the privation of everything but
absolute necessaries, in order to minister to the excessive luxuries of the other million.'
But he denies that any such necessity exists. He wishes precisely to see luxury spread among
the poorer classes. A desire for such luxury is the best of all checks to population, and one
of the best means of raising the standard. It would, in fact, contribute to his 'moral restraint.'
So, too, he heartily condemns the hypocrisy of the rich, who professed a benevolent desire
to better the poor, and yet complained of high wages.[248] If, he says elsewhere,[249] a country
can 'only be rich by running a successful race for low wages, I should be disposed to say,
Perish such riches!' No one, in fact, could see more distinctly than Malthus the demoralising
influence of poverty, and the surpassing importance of raising the people from the terrible
gulf of pauperism. He refers to Colquhoun's account of the twenty thousand people who rose
every morning in London without knowing how they were to be supported; and observes that 'when
indigence does not produce overt acts of vice, it palsies every virtue.'[250] The temptations
to which the poor man is exposed, and the sense of injustice due to an ignorance of the true
cause of misery, tend to 'sour the disposition, to harden the heart, and deaden the moral sense.'
Unfortunately, the means which have been adopted to lessen the evil have tended to increase
it. In the first place, there was the master-evil of the poor-laws. Malthus points out the
demoralising effects of these laws in chapters full of admirable common sense, which he was
unfortunately able to enforce by fresh illustrations in successive editions. He attends simply
to the stimulus to population. He thinks that if the laws had never existed, the poor would
now have been much better off.[251] If the laws had been fully carried out, every labourer
might have been certain that all his children would be supported, or, in other words, every
check to population would have been removed.[252] Happily, the becoming pride of the English
peasantry was not quite extinct; and the poor-law had to some extent counteracted itself, or
taken away with one hand what it gave with the other, by placing the burthen upon the parishes.[253]
Thus landlords have been more disposed to pull down than to build cottages, and marriage has
been checked. On the whole, however, Malthus could see in the poor-laws nothing but a vast
agency for demoralising the poor, tempered by a system of petty tyrannical interference. He
proposes, therefore, that the poor-law should be abolished. Notice should be given that no
children born after a certain day should be entitled to parish help; and, as he quaintly suggests,
the clergyman might explain to every couple, after publishing the banns, the immorality of
reckless marriage, and the reasons for abolishing a system which had been proved to frustrate
the intentions of the founders.[254] Private charity, he thinks, would meet the distress which
might afterwards arise, though humanity imperiously requires that it should be 'sparingly administered.'
Upon this duty he writes a sensible chapter.[255] To his negative proposals Malthus adds a
few of the positive kind. He is strongly in favour of a national system of education, and speaks
with contempt of the 'illiberal and feeble' arguments opposed to it. The schools, he observes,
might confer 'an almost incalculable benefit' upon society, if they taught 'a few of the simplest
principles of political economy.'[256] He had been disheartened by the prejudices of the ignorant
labourer, and felt the incompatibility of a free government with such ignorance. A real education,
such as was given in Scotland, would make the poor not, as alarmists had suggested, more inflammable,
but better able to detect the sophistry of demagogues.[257] He is, of course, in favour of
savings banks,[258] and approves friendly societies, though he is strongly opposed to making
them compulsory, as they would then be the poor-law in a new form.[259] The value of every
improvement turns upon its effect in encouraging the 'moral restraint.' Malthus's ultimate
criterion is always, Will the measure make people averse to premature marriage? He reaches
the apparently inconsistent result that it might be desirable to make an allowance for every
child beyond six.[260] But this is on the hypothesis that the 'moral restraint' has come to
be so habitual that no man marries until he has a fair prospect of maintaining a family of
six. If this were the practical code, the allowance in cases where the expectation was disappointed
would not act as an encouragement to marriage, but as a relief under a burthen which could
not have been anticipated. Thus all Malthus's teaching may be said to converge upon this practical
point. Add to the Ten Commandments the new law, 'Thou shalt not marry until there is a fair
prospect of supporting six children.' Then population will increase, but sufficient means for
subsistence will always be provided beforehand. We shall make sure that there is a provision
for additional numbers before, not after, we add to our numbers. Food first and population
afterwards gives the rule; thus we achieve the good end without the incidental evils.

Malthus's views of the appropriate remedy for social evils undoubtedly show an imperfect appreciation
of the great problems involved. Reckless propagation is an evil; but Malthus regards it as
an evil which can be isolated and suppressed by simply adding a new article to the moral code.
He is dealing with a central problem of human nature and social order. Any modification of
the sexual instincts or of the constitution of the family involves a profound modification
of the whole social order and of the dominant religious and moral creeds. Malthus tacitly assumes
that conduct is determined by the play of two instincts, unalterable in themselves, but capable
of modification in their results by a more extensive view of consequences. To change men's
ruling motives in regard to the most important part of their lives is to alter their whole
aims and conceptions of the world, and of happiness in every other relation. It supposes, therefore,
not a mere addition of knowledge, but a transformation of character and an altered view of
all the theories which have been embodied in religious and ethical philosophy. He overlooks,
too, considerations which would be essential to a complete statement. A population which is
too prudent may suffer itself to be crowded out by more prolific races in the general struggle
for existence; and cases may be suggested such as that of the American colonies, in which an
increase of numbers might be actually an advantage by facilitating a more efficient organisation
of labour.

The absence of a distinct appreciation of such difficulties gives to his speculation that one-sided
character which alienated his more sentimental contemporaries. It was natural enough in a man
who was constantly confronted by the terrible development of pauperism in England, and was
too much tempted to assume that the tendency to reckless propagation was not only a very grave
evil, but the ultimate source of every evil. The doctrine taken up in this unqualified fashion
by some of his disciples, and preached by them with the utmost fervour as the one secret of
prosperity, shocked both the conservative and orthodox whose prejudices were trampled upon,
and such Radicals as inherited Godwin's or Condorcet's theory of perfectibility. Harsh and
one-sided as it might be, however, we may still hold that it was of value, not only in regard
to the most pressing difficulty of the day, but also as calling attention to a vitally important
condition of social welfare. The question, however, recurs whether, when the doctrine is so
qualified as to be admissible, it does not also become a mere truism.

An answer to this question should begin by recognising one specific resemblance between his
speculations and Darwin's. Facts, which appear from an older point of view to be proofs of
a miraculous interposition, become with Malthus, as with Darwin, the normal results of admitted
conditions. Godwin had admitted that there was some 'principle which kept population on a level
with subsistence.' 'The sole question is,' says Malthus,[261] 'what is this principle? Is it
some obscure and occult cause? a mysterious interference of heaven,' inflicting barrenness
at certain periods? or 'a cause open to our researches and within our view?' Other writers
had had recourse to the miraculous. One of Malthus's early authorities was Süssmilch, who had
published his Göttliche Ordnung in 1761, to show how Providence had taken care that the trees
should not grow into the sky. The antediluvians had been made long-lived in order that they
might have large families and people an empty earth, while life was divinely shortened as the
world filled up. Süssmilch, however, regarded population as still in need of stimulus. Kings
might help Providence. A new Trajan would deserve to be called the father of his people, if
he increased the marriage-rate. Malthus replies that the statistics which the worthy man himself
produced showed conclusively that the marriages depended upon the deaths. The births fill up
the vacancies, and the prince who increased the population before vacancies arose would simply
increase the rate of mortality.[262] If you want to increase your birth-rate without absolutely
producing famine, as he remarks afterwards,[263] make your towns unhealthy, and encourage settlement
by marshes. You might thus double the mortality, and we might all marry prematurely without
being absolutely starved. His own aim is not to secure the greatest number of births, but to
be sure that the greatest number of those born may be supported.[264] The ingenious M. Muret,
again, had found a Swiss parish in which the mean life was the highest and the fecundity smallest
known. He piously conjectures that it may be a law of God that 'the force of life in each country
should be in the inverse ratio of its fecundity.' He needs not betake himself to a miracle,
says Malthus.[265] The case is simply that in a small and healthy village, where people had
become aware of the importance of the 'preventive check,' the young people put off marriage
till there was room for them, and consequently both lowered the birth-rate and raised the average
duration of life.

Nothing, says Malthus very forcibly, has caused more errors than the confusion between 'relative
and positive, and between cause and effect.'[266] He is here answering the argument that because
the poor who had cows were the most industrious, the way to make them industrious was to give
them cows. Malthus thinks it more probable that industry got the cow than that the cow produced
industry. This is a trifling instance of a very general truth. People had been content to notice
the deaths caused by war and disease, and to infer at once that what caused death must diminish
population. Malthus shows the necessity of observing other collateral results. The gap may
be made so great as to diminish population; but it may be compensated by a more rapid reproduction;
or, the rapidity of reproduction may itself be the cause of the disease; so that to remove
one kind of mortality may be on some occasion to introduce others. The stream is dammed on
one breach to flow more strongly through other outlets.[267]

This is, I conceive, to say simply that Malthus was introducing a really scientific method.
The facts taken in the true order became at once intelligible instead of suggesting mysterious
and irregular interferences. Earlier writers had been content to single out one particular
set of phenomena without attending to its place in the more general and complex processes,
of which they formed an integral part. Infanticide, as Hume had pointed out, might tend to
increase population.[268] In prospect, it might encourage people to have babies; and when babies
came, natural affection might prevent the actual carrying out of the intention. To judge of
the actual effect, we have to consider the whole of the concrete case. It may be carried out,
as apparently in the South Sea Islands, so generally as to limit population; or it may be,
as in China, an indication that the pressure is so great that a number of infants become superfluous.
Its suppression might, in the one case, lead to an increase of the population; in the other,
to the increase of other forms of mortality. Malthus's investigations illustrate the necessity
of referring every particular process to its place in the whole system, of noting how any given
change might set up a set of actions and reactions in virtue of the general elasticity of population,
and thus of constantly referring at every step to the general conditions of human life. He
succeeded in making many points clear, and of showing how hastily many inferences had been
drawn. He explained, for example, why the revolutionary wars had not diminished the population
of France, in spite of the great number of deaths,[269] and thus gave an example of a sound
method of inquiry which has exercised a great influence upon later observers. Malthus was constantly
misunderstood and misrepresented, and his opponents often allege as fatal objections to his
doctrine the very facts by which it was really supported. But we may, I think, say, that since
his writing no serious economical writer has adopted the old hasty guesses, or has ventured
to propose a theory without regard to the principles of which he first brought out the full
significance.

V. POLITICAL APPLICATION

This I take to indicate one real and permanent value of Malthus's writings. He introduced a
new method of approaching the great social problems. The value of the method may remain, however
inaccurate may be the assumptions of facts. The 'tendency,' if interpreted to mean that people
are always multiplying too rapidly, may be a figment. If it is taken as calling attention to
one essential factor in the case, it is a most important guide to investigation. This brings
out another vital point. The bearing of the doctrine upon the political as well as upon the
economical views of the Utilitarians is of conspicuous importance. Malthus's starting-point,
as we have seen, was the opposition to the doctrine of 'perfectibility.' Hard facts, which
Godwin and Condorcet had neglected, were fatal to their dreams. You have, urged Malthus, neglected
certain undeniable truths as to the unalterable qualities of human nature, and, therefore,
your theories will not work. The revolutionists had opposed an ideal 'state of nature' to the
actual arrangements of society. They imagined that the 'state of nature' represented the desirable
consummation, and that the constitution of the 'natural' order could be determined from certain
abstract principles. The equality of man, and the absolute rights which could be inferred by
a kind of mathematical process, supplied the necessary dogmatic basis. The antithesis to the
state of nature was the artificial state, marked by inequality, and manifesting its spirit
by luxury. Kings, priests, and nobles had somehow established this unnatural order; and to
sweep them away summarily was the way of bringing the natural order into full activity. The
ideal system was already potentially in existence, and would become actual when men's minds
were once cleared from superstition, and the political made to correspond to the natural rights
of man. To this Malthus had replied, as we have seen, that social inequality was not a mere
arbitrary product of fraud and force, but an expedient necessary to restrain the primitive
instincts of mankind. He thus coincides with Bentham's preference of 'security' to 'equality,'
and illustrates the real significance of that doctrine. Property and marriage, though they
involve inequality, were institutions of essential importance. Godwin had pushed his theories
to absolute anarchy; to the destruction of all law, for law in general represented coercion
or an interference with the state of nature. Malthus virtually asserted that the metaphysical
doctrine was inapplicable because, men being what they are, these conclusions were incompatible
with even the first stages of social progress. This means, again, that for the metaphysical
method Malthus is substituting a scientific method. Instead of regarding all government as
a kind of mysterious intervention from without, which has somehow introduced a fatal discord
into the natural order, he inquires what are the facts; how law has been evolved; and for what
reason. His answer is, in brief, that law, order, and inequality have been absolutely necessary
in order to limit tendencies which would otherwise keep men in a state of hopeless poverty
and depression.

This gives the 'differentia' of the Utilitarian considered as one species of the genus 'Radical.'
Malthus's criticism of Paine is significant.[270] He agrees with Paine that the cause of popular
risings is 'want of happiness.' But Paine, he remarks, was 'in many important points totally
ignorant of the structure of society'; and has fallen into the error of attributing all want
of happiness to government. Consequently, Paine advocates a plan for distributing taxes among
the poorest classes, which would aggravate the evils a hundredfold. He fully admits with Paine
that man has rights. The true line of answer would be to show what those rights are. To give
this answer is not Malthus's present business; but there is one right, at any rate, which a
man does not and cannot possess: namely, the 'right to subsistence when his labour will not
fairly purchase it.' He does not possess it because he cannot possess it; to try to secure
it is to try to 'reverse the laws of nature,' and therefore to produce cruel suffering by practising
an 'inhuman deceit.' The Abbé Raynal had said that a man had a right to subsist 'before all
social laws.' Man had the same right, replied Malthus, as he had to live a hundred or a thousand
years. He may live, if he can without interfering with others. Social laws have, in fact, enlarged
the power of subsistence; but neither before nor after their institution could an unlimited
number subsist. Briefly, the question of fact comes before the question of right, and the fault
of the revolutionary theorists was to settle the right without reference to the possibility
of making the right correspond to the fact.

Hence Malthus draws his most emphatic political moral. The admission that all evil is due to
government is the way to tyranny. Make men believe that government is the one cause of misery,
and they will inevitably throw the whole responsibility upon their rulers; seek for redress
by cures which aggravate the disease; and strengthen the hands of those who prefer even despotism
to anarchy. This, he intimates, is the explanation of the repressive measures in which the
country-gentlemen had supported Pitt. The people had fancied that by destroying government
they would make bread cheap; government was forced to be tyrannical in order to resist revolution;
while its supporters were led to 'give up some of the most valuable privileges of Englishmen.'[271]
It is then of vital importance to settle what is and what is not to be set down to government.
Malthus, in fact, holds that the real evils are due to underlying causes which cannot be directly
removed, though they may be diminished or increased, by legislators. Government can do something
by giving security to property, and by making laws which will raise the self-respect of the
lower classes. But the effect of such laws must be slow and gradual; and the error which has
most contributed to that delay in the progress of freedom, which is 'so disheartening to every
liberal mind,'[272] is the confusion as to the true causes of misery. Thus, as he has already
urged, professed economists could still believe, so long after the publication of Adam Smith's
work, that it was 'in the power of the justices of the peace or even of the omnipotence of
parliament to alter by a fiat the whole circumstances of the country.'[273] Yet men who saw
the absurdity of trying to fix the price of provisions were ready to propose to fix the rate
of wages. They did not see that one term of the proportion implied the other. Malthus's whole
criticism of the poor-law, already noticed, is a commentary upon this text. It is connected
with a general theory of human nature. The author of nature, he says, has wisely made 'the
passion of self-love beyond expression stronger than the passion of benevolence.'[274] He means,
as he explains, that every man has to pursue his own welfare and that of his family as his
primary object. Benevolence, of course, is the 'source of our purest and most refined pleasures,'
and so forth; but it should come in as a supplement to self-love. Therefore we must never admit
that men have a strict right to relief. That is to injure the very essential social force.
'Hard as it may seem in individual instances, dependent poverty ought to be held disgraceful.'[275]
The spirit of independence or self-help is the one thing necessary. 'The desire of bettering
our condition and the fear of making it worse, like the vis medicatrix in physics, is the vis
medicatrix naturae in politics, and is continually counteracting the disorders arising from
narrow human institutions.'[276] It is only because the poor-laws have not quite destroyed
it, that they have not quite ruined the country. The pith of Malthus's teaching is fairly expressed
in his last letter to Senior.[277] He holds that the improvement in the condition of the great
mass of the labouring classes should be considered as the main interest of society. He maintains
in his letter to Senior, that this desire is 'perfectly feeble' compared with the tendency
of the population to increase, and operates in a very slight degree upon the great mass of
the labouring class.[278] Still, he holds that on the whole the 'preventive checks' have become
stronger relatively to the positive,[279] and, at any rate, all proposals must be judged by
their tendency to strengthen the preventive.

