THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIII, No. 357.] SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1829. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

WARWICK CASTLE.

The history of a fabric, so intimately connected with some of the most important events recorded
in the chronicles of our country, as that of Warwick Castle, cannot fail to be alike interesting
to the antiquary, the historian, and the man of letters. This noble edifice is also rendered
the more attractive, as being one of the very few that have escaped the ravages of war, or
have defied the mouldering hand of time; it having been inhabited from its first foundation
up to the present time, a period of nearly one thousand years. Before, however, noticing the
castle, it will be necessary to make a few remarks on the antiquity of the town of which it
is the chief ornament.

The town of Warwick is delightfully situated on the banks of the river Avon, nearly in the
centre of the county to which it has given its name, and of which it is the principal town.
Much diversity of opinion exists among antiquaries, as to whether it be of Roman or Saxon origin;
but it is the opinion of Rous, as well as that of the learned Dugdale,[1] that its foundation
is as remote as the earliest period of the Christian era. These authors attribute its erection
to Gutheline, or Kimbeline, a British king, who called it after his own name, Caer-Guthleon,
a compound of the British word Caer, (civitas,) and Gutieon, or Gutheline, which afterwards,
for the sake of brevity, was usually denominated Caerleon. We are also informed that Guiderius,
the son and successor of Kimbeline, greatly extended it, granting thereto numerous privileges
and immunities; but being afterwards almost totally destroyed by the incursions of the Picts
and Scots, it lay in a ruinous condition until it was rebuilt by the renowned Caractacus. This
town afterwards greatly suffered from the ravages of the Danish invaders; but was again repaired
by the lady Ethelfleda, the daughter of King Alfred, to whom it had been given, together with
the kingdom of Mercia, of which it was the capital, by her father. Camden,[2] with whose opinion
several other antiquaries also concur, supposes that Warwick was the ancient Præsidium of the
Romans, and the post where the præfect of the Dalmatian horse was stationed by the governor
of Britain, as mentioned in the Notitia.

    [1] "Warwickshire," p. 298, edit. 1661.

    [2] Vide Camden's "Britannia," by Bishop Gibson, vol. i. p. 603,
        edit. 1722.

The appearance of this town in the time of Leland is thus described by that celebrated writer:--"The
town of Warwick hath been right strongly defended and waullid, having a compace of a good mile
within the waul. The dike is most manifestly perceived from the castelle to the west gate,
and there is a great crest of yearth that the waul stood on. Within the precincts of the toune
is but one paroche chirche, dedicated to St. Mary, standing in the middle of the toune, faire
and large. The toune standeth on a main rokki hill, rising from est to west. The beauty and
glory of it is yn two streetes, whereof the hye street goes from est to west, having a righte
goodely crosse in the middle of it, making a quadrivium, and goeth from north to south." Its
present name is derived, according to Matthew Paris, from Warmund, the father of Offa, king
of the Mercians, who rebuilt it, and called it after his own name, Warwick.[3]

    [3] "Inter Occidentalium Anglorum Reges illustrissimos,
        præcipua commendationis laude celebratur, rex Warmundus, ab his
        qui Historias Anglorum non solum relatu proferre, sed etiam
        scriptis inserere, consueverant. Is fundator cujusdam urbis a
        seipso denominatæ; quæ lingua Anglicana Warwick, id est, Curia
        Warmundi nuncupatur."--Matthæi Paris "Historia Major," à Watts,
        edit. 1640.

The castle, which is one of the most magnificent specimens of the ancient baronial splendour
of our ancestors now remaining in this kingdom, rears its proud and lofty turrets, gray with
age, in the immediate vicinity of the town. It stands on a rocky eminence, forty feet in perpendicular
height, and overhanging the river, which laves its base. The first fortified building on this
spot was erected by the before-mentioned lady Ethelfleda, who built the donjon upon an artificial
mound of earth. No part of that edifice, however, is now supposed to remain, except the mound,
which is still to be traced in the western part of the grounds surrounding the castle. The
present structure is evidently the work of different ages, the most ancient part being erected,
as appears from the "Domesday Book," in the reign of Edward the Confessor; which document also
informs us, that it was "a special strong hold for the midland part of the kingdom." In the
reign of William the Norman it received considerable additions and improvements; when Turchill,
the then vicomes of Warwick, was ordered by that monarch to enlarge and repair it. The Conqueror,
however, being distrustful of Turchill, committed the custody of it to one of his own followers,
Henry de Newburgh, whom he created Earl of Warwick, the first of that title of the Norman line.
The stately building at the north-east angle, called Guy's Tower, was erected in the year 1394,
by Thomas Beauchamp, the son and successor of the first earl of that family, and was so called
in honour of the ancient hero of that name, and also one of the earls of Warwick. It is 128
feet in height, and the walls, which are of solid masonry, measure 10 feet in thickness. Cæsar's
Tower, which is supposed to be the most ancient part of the fabric, is 147 feet in height;
but appears to be less lofty than that of Guy's, from its being situated on a less elevated
part of the rock.

In the reign of Henry III., Warwick Castle was of such importance, that security was required
from Margery, the sister and heiress of Thomas de Newburgh, the sixth earl of the Norman line,
that she would not marry with any person in whom the king could not place the greatest confidence.
During the same reign, in the year 1265, William Manduit, who had garrisoned the castle on
the side of the king against the rebellious barons, was surprised by John Gifford, the governor
of Kenilworth Castle, who, having destroyed a great part of the walls, took him, together with
the countess, his wife, prisoners; and a ransom of nineteen hundred marks were paid, before
their release could be obtained. The last attack which it sustained was during the civil wars
in the seventeenth century, when it was besieged for a fortnight, but did not surrender.

Few persons have made a greater figure in history than the earls of Warwick, from the renowned

  ---- Sir Guy of Warwicke, as was weten
  In palmer wyse, as Colman hath it wryten;
  The battaill toke on hym for Englandis right,
  With the Colbrond in armes for to fight.[4]

up to the accomplished Sir Fulk Greville, to whom the castle, with all its dependencies, was
granted by James I., after having passed through the successive lines of Beauchamp, Neville,
Plantagenet, and Dudley.

L.L.

    [4] Hardynge's "Chronicle," p, 211, edit. 1812.

*       *       *       *       *

ODE TO THE LONDON STONE.

(For the Mirror.)

  Mound of antiquity's dark hidden ways,
    Though long thou'st slumber'd in thy holy niche,
  Now, the first time, a modern bard essays
    To crave thy primal use, the what and which!
  Speak! break my sorry ignorance asunder!
    City stone-henge, of aldermanic wonder.

  Wert them a fragment of a Druid pile,
    Some glorious throne of early British art?
  Some trophy worthy of our rising isle,
    Soon from its dull obscurity to start.
  Wert thou an altar for a world's respect?
  Now the sole remnant of thy fame and sect.

  Wert thou a churchyard ornament, to braid
    The charnel of putridity, and part
  The spot where what was mortal had been laid,
    With all thy native coldness in his heart?
  Thou sure wert not the stone--let critics cavil!--
  Of quack M.D. who lectur'd on the gravel.

  Did e'er fat Falstaff, wreathing 'neath his cup
    Of glorious sack, unable to reel home,
  Sit on thy breast, and give his fancy up,
    The all that wine had given pow'r to roam,
  And left the mind in gay, but dreamy talk,
  Wakeful in wit when legs denied to walk?

  Did e'er wise Shakspeare brood upon thy mass,
    And whimsey thee to any wondrous use
  Of sage forefathers, in his verse to class
    That which a worse bard had despis'd to choose,
  Unconscious how the meanest objects grow,
  Giants of notice in the poet's show?

  Canst thou not tell a tale of varied life,
    That gave Time's annals their recording name?
  No notes of Cade, marching with mischief rife,
    By Britain's misery to raise his fame?
  Wert thou the hone that "City's Lord" essay'd[5]
  To make the whetstone of his rebel blade?

  Wert thou--'tis pleasant to imagine it,
    Howe'er absurd such notions may be thought--
  When the wide heavens, wild with thunder fit,
    Huge hailstones to distress the nation wrought,
  A mass congeal'd of heaven's artill'ry wain,[6]
  A "hailstone chorus" of a Mary's reign?

  Or, wert thou part of monumental shrine
    Rais'd to a genius, who, for daily bread,
  While living, the base world had left to pine,
    Only to find his value out when dead?
  Say, wert thou any such memento lone,
  Of bard who wrote for bread, and got a stone?

  How many nations slumber on their deeds.
    The all that's left them of their mighty race?
  How may heroes' bosoms, wars, and creeds
    Have sought in stilly death a resting place,
  Since thou first gave thy presence to the air,
  Thou, who art looking scarce the worse for wear!

  Oft may each wave have travell'd to the shore,
    That ends the vasty ocean's unknown sway,
  Since thou wert first from earth's remotest pore,
    Rais'd as an emblem of man's craft to lay;
  Yet those same waves shall dwindle into earth,
  Ere, lost in time, we learn thy primal worth.

  They tell us "walls have ears"--then why, forsooth,
    Hast thou no tongue, like ancient stones of Rome,
  To paint the gory days of Britain's youth,
    And what thou wert when viler was thy home?
  Man makes thy kindred record of his name--
  Hast thou no tongue to historize thy fame?

  But thou! O, thou hast nothing to repeat!
    Lump of mysteriousness, the hand of Time
  No early pleasures from thy breast could cheat,
    Or witness in decay thine early prime!
  Yes, thou didst e'er in stony slumbers lay,
  Defying each M'Adam of his day.

  Eternity of stone! Time's lasting shrine!
    Whose minutes shall by thee unheeded pour!
  With whom in still companionship thou'lt twine
    The past, the present, shall be evermore,
  While innate strength shall shield thee from his hurt,
  And worlds remain stone blind to what thou wert.

P.T.

    [5] "Now is Mortimer lord of the city."--Vide Shakspeare.

    [6] In the reign of Mary, hailstones, which measured fifteen
        inches in circumference, fell upon and destroyed two small towns
        near Nottingham.--Cooper's Hist. England.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NECK.[7]

A SWEDISH TRADITION.

(For the Mirror.)

  His cheek was blanch'd, but beautiful and soft, each curling tress
  Wav'd round the harp, o'er which he bent with zephyrine caress;
  And as that lyrist sat all lorn, upon the silv'ry stream,
  The music of his harp was as the music of a dream,
  Most mournfully delicious, like those tones that wound the heart,
  Yet soothe it, when it cherishes the griefs that ne'er depart.

  "O Neck! O water-spirit! demon, delicate, and fair!"
  The young twain cried, who heard his lay, "why art thou harping there?
  Thine airy form is drooping, Neck! thy cheek is pale with dree,
  And torrents shouldst thou weep, poor fay, no Saviour lives for thee!"
  All mournful look'd the elflet then, and sobbing, cast aside
  His harp, and with a piteous wail, sunk fathoms in the tide.

  Keen sorrow seiz'd those gentle youths, who'd given cureless pain--
  In haste they sought their priestly sire, in haste return'd again;
  Return'd to view the elf enthron'd in waters as before,
  Whose music now was sighs, whose tears gush'd e'en from his heart's core.
  "Why weeping, Neck? look up, and clear those tearful eyes of blue--
  Our father bids us say, that thy Redeemer liveth too!"

  Oh, beautiful! blest words! they sooth'd the Nikkar's anguish'd breast,
  As breezy, angel-whisperings lull holy ones to rest.
  He seiz'd his harp--its airy strings, beneath a master hand,
  Woke melodies, too, too divine for earth or elfin land;
  He rais'd his glad, rich voice in song, and sinking saw the sun,
  Ere in that hymn of love he paus'd, for Paradise begun!
                                                   M.L.B.

    [7] "The Neck, a water-spirit, answering, in Sweden, &c. to the
        Scottish kelpie, as to its place of abode; but we believe its
        character is not so mischievous. The northern idea, that all
        fairies, demons, &c. who resided in this world, were spirits out
        of the pale of salvation, is very ancient. Mr. Keightley assures
        us, that the legend of which these stanzas attempt a
        versification, is extremely popular in Sweden."--Vide "Fairy
        Mythology."

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAN FOR SNUFF TAKERS TO PAY OFF THE NATIONAL DEBT.

(For the Mirror.)

As snuff-taking seems to increase, the following plan might be adopted by the patrons of that
art, to ease John Bull of his weight, and make him feel as light and easy, as if he had taken
a pinch of the "Prince Regent's Mixture.'"

Lord Stanhope says, "Every professed, inveterate, and incurable snuff-taker, at a moderate
computation, takes one pinch in ten minutes. Every pinch, with the agreeable ceremony of blowing
and wiping the nose, and other incidental circumstances, consumes a minute and a half. One
minute and a half out of every ten, allowing sixteen hours and a half to a snuff-taking day,
amounts to two hours and twenty-four minutes out of every natural day, or one day out of every
ten. One day out of every ten amounts to thirty-six days and a half in a-year. Hence, if we
suppose the practice to be persisted in forty years, two entire years of the snuff-taker's
life will be dedicated to tickling his nose, and two more to blowing it. The expense of snuff,
snuff-boxes, and handkerchiefs, will be the subject of a second essay, in which it will appear,
that this luxury encroaches as much on the income of the snuff-taker as it does on his time;
and that by a proper application of the time and money thus lost to the public, a fund might
be constituted for the discharge of the national debt."

Queries.--Is not this subject worthy the attention of the finance committee? Might not the
cigar gentlemen add to the discharge of the debt?

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DIVIDED HOUSEHOLD.

(For the Mirror.)

  Our hearth--we hear its music now--to us a bower and home;
  When will its lustre in our souls with Spring's young freshness come?
  Sweet faces beam'd around it then, and cherub lips did weave
  Their clear Hosannas in the glow that ting'd the skies at eve!

  Oh, lonely is our forest stream, and bare the woodland tree,
  And whose sunny wreath of leaves the cuckoo carolled free;
  The pilgrim passeth by our cot--no hand shall greet him there--
  The household is divided now, and mute the evening pray'r!

  Amid green walks and fringed slopes, still gleams the village pond.
  And see, a hoar and sacred pile, the old church peers beyond;
  And there we deem'd it bliss to gaze upon the Sabbath skies,--
  Gold as our sister's clustering hair, and blue as her meek eyes.

  Our home--when will these eyes, now dimm'd with frequent weeping, see
  The infant's pure and rosy ark, the stripling's sanctuary?
  When will these throbbing hearts grow calm around its lighted hearth?--
  Quench'd is the fire within its walls, and hush'd the voice of mirth!

  The haunts--they are forsaken now--where our companions play'd;
  We see their silken ringlets glow amid the moonlight glade;
  We hear their voices floating up like pæan songs divine;
  Their path is o'er the violet-beds beneath the springing vine!

  Restore, sweet spirit of our home! our native hearth restore--
  Why are our bosoms desolate, our summer rambles o'er?
  Let thy mild light on us be pour'd--our raptures kindle up,
  And with a portion of thy bliss illume the household cup.

  Yet mourn not, wanderers--onto you a thrilling hope is given,
  A tabernacle unconfin'd, an endless home in heaven!
  And though ye are divided now, ye shall be made as one
  In Eden, beauteous as the skies that o'er your childhood shone!

Deal.

REGINALD AUGUSTINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CHAPTER ON KISSING.

BY A PROFESSOR OF THE ART.

(For the Mirror.)

  "Away with your fictions of flimsy romance,
    Those tissues of falsehood which folly has wove;
  Give me the mild gleam of the soul breathing glance,
    And the rapture which dwells in the first kiss of love."
                                        BYRON.

There is no national custom so universally and so justly honoured with esteem and respect,
"winning golden opinions from all sorts of people," as kissing. Generally speaking, we discover
that a usage which finds favour in the eyes of the vulgar, is despised and detested by the
educated, the refined, and the proud; but this elegant practice forms a brilliant exception
to a rule otherwise tolerably absolute. Kissing possesses infinite claims to our love, claims
which no other custom in the wide world can even pretend to advance. Kissing is an endearing,
affectionate, ancient, rational, and national mode of displaying the thousand glowing emotions
of the soul;--it is traced back by some as far as the termination of the siege of Troy, for
say they, "Upon the return of the Grecian warriors, their wives met them, and joined their
lips together with joy." There are some, however, who give the honour of having invented kissing
to Rouix, or Rowena, the daughter of Hengist, the Saxon; a Dutch historian tells us, she, "pressed
the beaker with her lipkens (little lips,) and saluted the amorous Vortigern with a husgin
(little kiss,)" and this latter authority we ourselves feel most inclined to rely on; deeply
anxious to secure to our fair countrywomen the honour of having invented this delightful art.

Numberless are the authors who have written and spoken with rapture on English kissing.

"The women of England," says Polydore Virgil, "not only salute their relations with a kiss,
but all persons promiscuously; and this ceremony they repeat, gently touching them with their
lips, not only with grace, but without the least immodesty. Such, however, as are of the blood-royal
do not kiss their inferiors, but offer the back of the hand, as men do, by way of saluting
each other."

Erasmus too--the grave, the phlegmatic Erasmus, melts into love and playful thoughts, when
he thinks of kisses--"Did you but know, my Faustus," he writes to one of his friends, "the
pleasures which England affords, you would fly here on winged feet, and if your gout would
not allow you, you would wish yourself a Dædalus. To mention to you one among many things,
here are nymphs of the loveliest looks, good humoured, and whom you would prefer even to your
favourite Muses. Here also prevails a custom never enough to be commended, that wherever you
come, every one receives you with a kiss, and when you take your leave, every one gives you
a kiss; when you return, kisses again meet you. If any one leaves you they give you a kiss;
if you meet any one, the first salutation is a kiss; in short, wherever you go, kisses every
where abound; which, my Faustus, did you once taste how very sweet and how very fragrant they
are, you would not, like Solon, wish for ten years exile in England, but would desire to spend
there the whole of your life."

Oh what miracles have been wrought by a kiss! Philosophers, stoics, hermits, and misers have
become men of the world, of taste, and of generosity; idiots have become wise; and, truth to
tell, wise men idiots--warriors have turned cowards and cowards brave--statesmen have become
poets, and political economists sensible men. Oh, wonderful art, which can produce such strange
effects! to thee, the magic powers of steam seem commonplace and tedious; the wizard may break
his rod in despair, and the king his sceptre, for thou canst effect in a moment what they may
vainly labour years to accomplish. Well may the poet celebrate thy praises in words that breathe
and thoughts that burn; well may the minstrel fire with sudden inspiration and strike the lute
with rapture when he thinks of thee; well might the knight of bygone times brave every danger
when thou wert his bright reward; well might Vortigern resign his kingdom, or Mark Antony the
world, when it was thee that tempted. Long, long, may England be praised for her prevalence
of this divine custom! Long may British women be as celebrated for the fragrance of their kisses,
as they ever were, and ever will be for their virtue and their beauty.

CHILDE WILFUL.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

"COMPANION TO THE THEATRES."

An inveterate play-goer announces a little manual under this title, for publication in a few
days. Such a work, if well executed, will be very acceptable to the amateur and visitor, as
well as attractive to the general reader. The outline or plan looks well, and next week we
may probably give our readers some idea of its execution.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOYAGE TO INDIA.

The generality of our society on board was respectable, and some of its members were men of
education and talent. Excepting that there was no lady of the party, it was composed of the
usual materials to be found at the cuddy-table of an outward bound Indiaman. First, there was
a puisne judge, intrenched in all the dignity of a dispenser of law to his majesty's loving
subjects beyond the Cape, with a Don't tell me kind of face, a magisterial air, and dictatorial
manner, ever more ready to lay down the law, than to lay down the lawyer. Then, there was a
general officer appointed to the staff in India, in consideration of his services on Wimbledon
Common and at the Horse Guards, proceeding to teach the art military to the Indian army--a
man of gentlemanly but rather pompous manners; who, considering his simple nod equivalent to
the bows of half a dozen subordinates, could never swallow a glass of wine at dinner without
lumping at least that number of officers or civilians in the invitation to join him, while
his aid-de-camp practised the same airs among the cadets. Then, there was a proportion of civilians
and Indian officers returning from furlough or sick certificate, with patched-up livers, and
lank countenances, from which two winters of their native climate had extracted only just sufficient
sunbeams to leave them of a dirty lemon colour. Next, there were a few officers belonging to
detachments of king's troops proceeding to join their regiments in India, looking, of course,
with some degree of contempt on their brethren in arms, whose rank was bounded by the longitude
of the Cape; but condescending to patronize some of the most gentlemanly of the cadets. These,
with a free mariner, and no inconsiderable sprinkling of writers, cadets, and assistant-surgeons,
together with the officers of the ship, who dined at the captain's table, formed a party of
about twenty-five.--Twelve Years' Military Adventure.

       *       *       *       *       *

EDUCATION IN DENMARK.

Much pains has lately been taken in Denmark to promote the means of elementary education, and
Lancasterian schools have been generally established throughout the country. We have now before
us the Report made to the king by the Chevalier Abrahamson, of the progress, prospects, and
present state of the schools for mutual instruction in Denmark, to the 28th of January, 1828,
by which it appears, that 2,371 schools for mutual instruction have been established, and are
in full progress, in the different districts of the kingdom and in the army.--North American
Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECORDS.

Some faint idea of the bulk of our English records may be obtained, by adverting to the fact,
that a single statute, the Land Tax Commissioners' Act, passed in the first year of the reign
of his present majesty, measures, when unrolled, upwards of nine hundred feet, or nearly twice
the length of St. Paul's Cathedral within the walls; and if it ever should become necessary
to consult the fearful volume, an able-bodied man must be employed during three hours in coiling
and uncoiling its monstrous folds. Should our law manufactory go on at this rate, and we do
not anticipate any interruption in its progress, we may soon be able to belt the round globe
with parchment. When, to the solemn acts of legislature, we add the showers of petitions, which
lie (and in more senses than one) upon the table, every night of the session; the bills, which,
at the end of every term, are piled in stacks, under the parental custody of our good friends,
the Six Clerks in Chancery; and the innumerable membranes, which, at every hour of the day,
are transmitted to the gloomy dens and recesses of the different courts of common-law and of
criminal jurisdiction throughout the kingdom, we are afraid that there are many who may think
that the time is fast approaching for performing the operation which Hugh Peters recommended
as "A good work for a good Magistrate." This learned person, it will be recollected, exhorted
the commonwealth men to destroy all the muniments in the Tower--a proposal which Prynne considers
as an act inferior only in atrocity to his participation in the murder of Charles I., and we
should not be surprised if some zealous reformer were to maintain, that a general conflagration
of these documents would be the most essential benefit that could be conferred upon the realm.--Quarterly
Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENCYCLOPÆDIAS.

In the German universities an extensive branch of lectures is formed by the Encyclopædias of
the various sciences. Encyclopædia originally implied the complete course or circle of a liberal
education in science and art, as pursued by the young men of Greece; namely, gymnastics, a
cultivated taste for their own classics, music, arithmetic, and geometry. European writers
give the name of encyclopædia, in the widest scientific sense, to the whole round or empire
of human knowledge, arranged in systematic or alphabetic order; whereas the Greek imports but
practical school knowledge. The literature of the former is voluminous beyond description,
it having been cultivated from the beginning of the middle ages to the present day. Different
from either of them is the encyclopædia of the German universities; this is an introduction
into the several arts and sciences, showing the nature of each, its extent, utility, relation
to other studies and to practical life, the best method of pursuing it, and the sources from
whence the knowledge of it is to be derived. An introduction of this compass is, however, with
greater propriety styled encyclopædia and methodology. Thus, we hear of separate lectures on
encyclopædias and methodologies of divinity, jurisprudence, medicine, philosophy, mathematical
sciences, physical science, the fine arts, and philology. Manuals and lectures of this kind
are exceedingly useful for those who are commencing a course of professional study. For "the
best way to learn any science," says Watts, "is to begin with a regular system, or a short
and plain scheme of that science, well drawn up into a narrow compass."--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

PERSIAN CAVALIER.

The following sketch of a Persian cavalier has the richness and freshness of one of Heber's,
or Morier's or Sir John Malcolm's pages:--"He was a man of goodly stature, and powerful frame;
his countenance, hard, strongly marked, and furnished with a thick, black beard, bore testimony
of exposure to many a blast, but it still preserved a prepossessing expression of good humour
and benevolence. His turban, which was formed of a cashmere shawl, sorely tached and torn,
and twisted here and there with small steel chains, according to the fashion of the time, was
wound around a red cloth cap, that rose in four peaks high above the head. His oemah, or riding
coat, of crimson cloth much stained and faded, opening at the bosom, showed the links of a
coat of mail which he wore below; a yellow shawl formed his girdle; his huge shulwars, or riding
trousers, of thick, fawn-coloured Kerman woollen-stuff, fell in folds over the large red leather
boots in which his legs were cased: by his side hung a crooked scymetar in a black leather
scabbard, and from the holsters of his saddle peeped out the butt ends of a pair of pistols;
weapons of which I then knew not the use, any more than of the matchlock which was slung at
his back. He was mounted on a powerful but jaded horse, and appeared to have already travelled
far."--Kuzzilbash.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORATORY

The national glory of Great Britain rests, in no small degree, on the refined taste and classical
education of her politicians; and the portion of her oratory acknowledged to be the most energetic,
bears the greatest resemblance to the spirit of Demosthenes.--North American Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRESHAM COLLEGE.[8]

The City of London could not do a more fitting thing than to convert the Gresham lectureships
into fourteen scholarships for King's College, retaining the name and reserving the right of
presentation. A bounty which is at present useless would thus be rendered efficient, and to
the very end which was intended by Gresham himself. An act of parliament would be necessary;
and the annexations would of course take place as the lectureships became vacant.--Quarterly Rev.

    [8] See MIRROR, vol. xii. page 34.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Germany, seminaries for the education of popular teachers, are conducted by distinguished
divines of each state, who, for the most part, reside in the capital, and are the same persons
who examine each clergyman three times before his ordination. Unless a candidate can give evidence
of his ability, and of, at least, a two years' stay in those popular Institutions where religious
instruction is the main object, he is not allowed to teach any branch of knowledge whatever.--Russell's
Tour in Germany.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUNGO PARK.

Captain Clapperton being near that part of the Quorra, where Mungo Park perished, our traveller
thought he might get some information of this melancholy event. The head man's story is this:--"That
the boat stuck fast between two rocks; that the people in it laid out four anchors a-head;
that the water falls down with great rapidity from the rocks, and that the white men, in attempting
to get on shore, were drowned; that crowds of people went to look at them, but the white men
did not shoot at them as I had heard; that the natives were too much frightened either to shoot
at them or to assist them; that there were found a great many things in the boat, books and
riches, which the Sultan of Boussa has got; that beef cut in slices and salted was in great
plenty in the boat; that the people of Boussa who had eaten of it all died, because it was
human flesh, and that they knew we white men eat human flesh. I was indebted to the messenger
of Yarro for a defence, who told the narrator that I was much more nice in my eating than his
countrymen were. But it was with some difficulty I could persuade him that if his story was
true, it was the people's own fears that had killed them; that the meat was good beef or mutton:
that I had eaten more goats' flesh since I had been in this country than ever I had done in
my life; that in England we eat nothing but fowls, beef, and mutton."--Clapperton's Travels.

       *       *       *       *       *

SILK.

We find in a statement of the raw silk imported into England, from all parts of the world,
that in 1814, it amounted to one million, six hundred and thirty-four thousand, five hundred
and one pounds; and in 1824, to three millions, three hundred and eighty-two thousand, three
hundred and fifty-seven.[9] Italy, which is not better situated in regard to the culture of
silk than a large portion of the United States, furnishes to the English fabrics about eight
hundred thousand pounds' weight. The Bengal silk is complained of by the British manufacturers,
on account of its defective preparation; by bestowing more care on his produce, the American
cultivator could have in England the advantage over the British East Indies. It is a fact well
worthy of notice, and the accuracy of which seems warranted by its having been brought before
a Committee of both Houses of Parliament, that the labour in preparing new silk affords much
more employment to the country producing it, than any other raw material. It appears from an
official document, that the value of the imports of raw silk into France, during the year 1824,
amounted to thirty seven millions, one hundred and forty-nine thousand, nine hundred and sixty
francs.--North American Review.

    [9] The official values of these imports are £703,009 and £1,464,994.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHINESE NOVELS.

A union of three persons, cemented by a conformity of taste and character, constitutes, in
the opinion of the Chinese, the perfection of earthly happiness, a sort of ideal bliss, reserved
by heaven for peculiar favourites as a suitable reward for their talent and virtue. Looking
at the subject under this point of view, their novel-writers not unfrequently arrange matters
so as to secure this double felicity to their heroes at the close of the work; and a catastrophe
of this kind is regarded as the most satisfactory that can be employed. Without exposing ourselves
to the danger incurred by one of the German divines, who was nearly torn to pieces by the mob
of Stockholm for defending polygamy, we may venture to remark, that for the mere purposes of
art, this system certainly possesses very great advantages. It furnishes the novel-writer with
an easy method of giving general satisfaction to all his characters, at the end of the tale,
without recurring to the fatal though convenient intervention of consumption and suicide, with
us the only resources, when there happens to be a heroine too many. What floods of tears would
not the Chinese method have spared to the high-minded Corinna, to the interesting and poetical
Clementina! From what bitter pangs would it not have relieved the irresolute Oswald, perhaps
even the virtuous Grandison himself! The Chinese are entitled to the honour of having invented
the domestic and historical novel several centuries before they were introduced in Europe.
Fables, tales of supernatural events, and epic poems, belong to the infancy of nations; but
the real novel is the product of a later period in the progress of society, when men are led
to reflect upon the incidents of domestic life, the movement of the passions, the analysis
of sentiment, and the conflicts of adverse interests and opinions.--Preface to a French Translation
of a Chinese Novel.

       *       *       *       *       *

HERO OF A CHINESE NOVEL.

There came out a youth of about fifteen or sixteen years of age, dressed in a violet robe with
a light cap on his head. His vermilion lips, brilliant white teeth, and arched eye-brows gave
him the air of a charming girl. So graceful and airy are his movements, that one might well
ask, whether he be mortal or a heavenly spirit. He looks like a sylph formed of the essence
of flowers, or a soul descended from the moon. Is it indeed a youth who has come out to divert
himself, or is it a sweet perfume from the inner apartment?--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEES.

It has been the custom, from the earliest ages, to rub the inside of the hive with a handful
of salt and clover, or some other grass or sweet-scented herb, previously to the swarm's being
put in the hive. We have seen no advantage in this; on the contrary, it gives a great deal
of unnecessary labour to the bees, as they will be compelled to remove every particle of foreign
matter from the hive before they begin to work. A clean, cool hive, free from any peculiar
smell or mustiness, will be acceptable to the bees; and the more closely the hive is joined
together, the less labour will the insects have, whose first care it is to stop up every crevice,
that light and air may be excluded. We must not omit to reprehend, as utterly useless, the
vile practice of making an astounding noise, with tin pans and kettles, when the bees are swarming.
It may have originated in some ancient superstition, or it may have been the signal to call
aid from the fields, to assist in the hiving. If harmless it is unnecessary; and everything
that tends to encumber the management of bees should be avoided.--American Farmer's Manual.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONVENT GARDEN MARKET.

I know some of the ugliest men who are the most agreeable fellows in the world. The ladies
may doubt this remark; but if they compel me to produce an example, I shall waive all modesty,
and prove my veracity by quoting myself. I have often thought how it is that ugliness contrives
to invest itself with a "certain something," that not only destroys its disagreeable properties,
but actually commands an interest--(by the by, this is referring generally, and nothing personal
to myself.) I philosophically refer it all to the balance of nature. Now I know some very ugly
places that have a degree of interest, and here again I fancy a lady's sceptical ejaculation,
"Indeed!" Ay, but it is so; and let us go no further than Covent Garden. Enter it from Russell-street.
What can be more unsightly,--with its piles of cabbages in the street, and basket-measures
on the roofs of the shops--narrow alleys, wooden buildings, rotting vegetables "undique," and
swarms of Irish basket-women, who wander about like the ghosts on this side of the Styx, and
who, in habits, features, and dialect, appear as if belonging to another world. Yet the Garden,
like every garden, has its charms. I have lounged through it on a summer's day, mixing with
pretty women, looking upon choice fruit, smelling delicious roses, with now and then an admixture
of sundry disagreeables, such as a vigorous puff out of an ugly old woman's doodeen, just as
you are about to make a pretty speech to a much prettier lady--to say nothing of the unpleasant
odours arising from heaps of putrescent vegetables, or your hat being suddenly knocked off
by a contact with some unlucky Irish basket-woman, with cabbages piled on her head sufficient
for a month's consumption at Williams's boiled beef and cabbage warehouse, in the Old Bailey.
The narrow passages through this mart remind me of the Chinese streets, where all is shop,
bustle, squeeze, and commerce. The lips of the fair promenaders I collate (in my mind's eye,
gentle reader) with the delicious cherry, and match their complexions with the peach, the nectarine,
the rose, red or white, and even sometimes with the russet apple. Then again I lounge amidst
chests of oranges, baskets of nuts, and other et cetera, which, as boys, we relished in the
play-ground, or, in maturer years, have enjoyed at the wine feast. Here I can saunter in a
green-house among plants and heaths, studying botany and beauty. Facing me is a herb-shop,
where old nurses, like Medeas of the day, obtain herbs for the sick and dying; and within a
door or two flourishes a vender of the choicest fruits, with a rich display of every luxury
to delight the living and the healthy.

I know of no spot where such variety may be seen in so small a compass. Rich and poor, from
the almost naked to the almost naked lady (of fashion, of course.) "Oh crikey, Bill," roared
a chimney-sweep in high glee. The villain turned a pirouette in his rags, and in the centre
mall of the Garden too; he finished it awkwardly, made a stagger, and recovered himself against--what?--"Animus
meminisse horret"--against a lady's white gown! But he apologized. Oh, ye gods! his apology
was so sincere, his manner was so sincere, that the true and thorough gentleman was in his
every act and word. (Mem. merely as a corroboration, the lady forgave him.) What a lesson would
this act of the man of high callings (from the chimney-tops) have been to our mustachioed and
be-whiskered dandies, who, instead of apologizing to a female after they may have splashed
her from head to foot, trod on her heel, or nearly carried away her bonnet, feathers, cap,
and wig, only add to her confusion by an unmanly, impudent stare or sneer!

But to the Garden again. I like it much; it is replete with humour, fun, and drollery; it contributes
a handsome revenue to the pocket of his Grace the Duke of Bedford, besides supplying half the
town with cabbages and melons, (the richest Melon on record came from Covent-Garden, and was
graciously presented to our gracious sovereign.)

The south side appears to be devoted to potatoes, a useful esculent, and of greater use to
the poor than all the melons in christendom. Here kidneys and champions are to be seen from
Scotland, York, and Kent; and here have I observed the haggard forms of withered women

  "In rags and tatters, friendless and forlorn,"

creeping from shop to shop, bargaining for "a good pen'orth of the best boilers;" and here
have I often watched the sturdy Irishman walking with a regular connoisseur's eye, peeping
out above a short pipe, and below a narrow-brimmed hat,--a perfect, keen, twinkling, connoisseur's
eye, critically examining every basket for the best lot of his own peculiar.

Now let us take a retrospective view of this our noble theme, and our interest will be the
more strengthened thereon. All the world knows that a convent stood in this neighbourhood,
and the present market was the garden, undè Convent Garden; would that all etymologists were
as distinct. Of course the monastic institution was abolished in the time of Henry VIII., when
he plundered convents and monasteries with as much gusto as boys abolish wasps-nests. After
this it was given to Edmund Seymour, Duke of Somerset, brother-in-law to Henry VIII., afterwards
the protector of his country, but not of himself for he was beheaded in 1552. The estate then
became, by royal grant, the property of the Bedford family; and in the Privy Council Records
for March, 1552, is the following entry of the transfer:--"A patent granted to John, Earl of
Bedford, of the gifts of the Convent Garden, lying in the parish of St. Martin's-in-the-Fields,
near Charing Cross, with seven acres, called Long Acre, of the yearly value of 6l. 6s. 8d.
parcel of the possessions of the late Duke of Somerset, to have to him and his heirs, reserving
a tenure to the king's majesty in socage, and not in capite." In 1634, Francis, Earl of Bedford,
began to clear away the old buildings, and form the present square; and in 1671, a patent was
granted for a market, which shows the rapid state of improvement in this neighbourhood, because
in the Harleian MSS., No. 5,900, British Museum, is a letter, written in the early part of
Charles II., by an observing foreigner to his friend abroad, who notices Bloomsbury, Hungerford,
Newport, and other markets, but never hints of the likelihood or prospect of one being established
in Covent Garden; yet before Charles's death the patent was obtained. It is a market, sui generis,
confined mostly to vegetables and fruits; and the plan reflects much credit upon the speculative
powers of the noble earl who founded it.

Thus far goes the public history; now let us turn to the private memoranda. In 1690, the parish,
being very loyal, gave a grand display of fire-works on the happy return of William the Third
from Ireland; and in the parish books appear the following entries on the subject, which will
give some idea of the moderate charges of parish festivities in those "dark ages."

"Sept. 23, 1690.                          £.    s.    d. Paid to Mr. Brown for 200 ffaggotts
and 30 brushes for bonefire for the parish ----              01    02    06

Sept. 25.--Paid Mr. Stockes for a barrell of ale for bonefire ----    01    00    00

Given to the watchmen to drincke att the king's returne from Ireland ----                 
00    02    06

1691.--Given to Stockes and ye watchmen to drincke att the bonefire and fire workes att the
king's returne from Ireland ----                              00    10    00

Oct. 12.--Paid the labourers and carters for four dayes' worke in laying and spreading the
gravell ----                          01    06    00

Making a grand total of £4. 1s. 0d. for a St. Paul's parish fête; but this was in 1690. This
festival was of sufficient note to engage the artist's attention, and an engraving of it was
sold by "B. Lens, between Bridewell and Fleet Bridge in Blackfryers."

Convent Garden has been the abode of talented and noble men. Richardson's Hotel was the residence
of Dr. Hunter, the anatomical lecturer; and in 1724, Sir James Thornhill, who painted the dome
of St. Paul's Cathedral, resided in this garden and opened a school for drawing in his house.
Moreover, for the honour of the Garden, be it known, that at Sir Francis Kynaston's house therein
situated, Charles the First established an academy called "Museum Minervæ," for the instruction
of gentlemen in arts and sciences, knowledge of medals, antiquities, painting, architecture,
and foreign languages. Not a vestige remains of the museum establishment now-a-days, or the
subjects it embraced, unless it be foreign languages, including wild Irish, and very low English.
Even as late as 1722, Lord Ferrers lived in Convent Garden; but this is trifling compared with
the list of nobles who have lived around about this attractive spot, where nuns wandered in
cloistered innocence, and now, oh! for sentimentality, what a relief to a fine, sensitive mind,
or a sickly milliner!

In the front of the church quacks used to harangue the mob and give advice gratis. Westminster
elections are held also on the same spot--that's a coincidence.

A CORRESPONDENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

Manners & Customs of all Nations.

       *       *       *       *       *

AFRICAN FESTIVITIES.

       *       *       *       *       *

The price of a slave at Jannah, as nearly as can be calculated, is from 3l. to 4l. sterling;
their domestic slaves, however, are never sold, except for misconduct.

       *       *       *       *       *

AFRICAN WIDOW.

Capt. Clapperton tells of a widow's arrival in town, with a drummer beating before her, whose
cap was bedecked with ostrich feathers; a bowman walking on foot at the head of her horse;
a train behind, armed with bows, swords, and spears.

       *       *       *       *       *

AFRICAN NURSE.

She was of a dark copper colour. I certainly was much obliged to her, for she twice gave me
a basin of water. The heat and the dust made thirst almost intolerable--Clapperton's Travels.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOXES.

But, never mind. That what I would you say, is not only for the Englishes, but for the strangers,
who come at your country from all the other kingdoms, polite and instructed; because, as they
tell me, that they are abonnements[10] for you in all the kingdoms in Europe, so well as in
the Orientals and Occidentals.

   [10] Abonnements--subscriptions.

No, sir, upon my honour, I am not egotist. I not proud myself with chateaux en Espagne.

   [11] Bateau an vapeur--a steam-boat.

But, it must that I begin.

   [12] Rentes--public funds.

   [13] Là là, signifies passable, indifferent.

   [14] The cabriolet is the front part of the old French
        diligence, with a hood and apron, holding three persons,
        including the guard, or "conducteur." But never
mind,--we shall see. If you take this letter as it ought, I shall not
promise if I would not write you one other some time.

I conclude by presenting at you my compliments very respectful. I am sorry for your gout and
crutchedness, and hope you shall miss them in the spring.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTIQUITY OF THE ALDERMAN.

Alderman is derived from the Saxon word ealderman, that is a senior or alderman, which by degrees
came to stand for persons of great distinction, because such were chosen to discharge the highest
offices, being those whose long experience rendered them most capable, and whose birth and
fortunes made them most conspicuous; and as they were generally entrusted with the government
of the counties, instead of saying the governor, it was said the ealderman of such a county.
While the heptarchy lasted, these offices were only during the king's pleasure; at last they
became during life. After the Danes were settled in England, the title of ealderman was changed
into that of earl, and the Normans introduced that of count, which, though different in its
original signification, meant, however, the same dignity. There were several sorts of ealdermen;
some were properly only governors of a province or county, others were owners of their province,
holding it as a fee of the crown. These ealdermen, or earls, were honoured with titles of reguli
subreguli, principes, patricii, and some times rex. Those who were only governors, had the
title of ealderman of such a county, or sometimes in Latin by the term consul. The first administered
justice in their own name, and appropriated to their own use all the revenues and profits of
their respective counties. The last administered justice in the king's name and had only part
of the profits assigned them. A third sort of ealdermen were those, who upon account of their
high birth, bore the title, without any authority, out of which rank the governors were generally
chosen. There were also inferior ealdermen in cities or boroughs, who administered justice
in the king's name, and were dependent on the great ealdermen, or earls, which by the name
of alderman still continues among us to those inferior officers, while they are called earls
only. The office of the ealderman was wholly civil, and had nothing to do with either military
or ecclesiastical affairs. What power each of them had, it is not easy to determine; but they
were all obliged to have some knowledge of the law. In the Saxon times, the bishop and ealderman
sat together to try causes; the one proceeded by the canons, the other by the common law. Part
of the ealderman's jurisdiction was to examine the arms, and to raise the militia within such
a district, in order to suppress riot and execute the sentence of a court of justice. He had
likewise the cognizance of house-breaking, robbing, &c. Nor was it lawful for any person to
move from one place to another without a certificate from the ealderman.

HALBERT H.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
                        SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

HANDSOME BAR-MAIDS.

The following advertisement appeared in a New Orlean's journal:--Wanted, two handsome ladies
to assist in two bar-rooms, and to whom liberal wages will be given. Beauties from New York,
Charlestown, or Savannah will be preferred. A well-shaped, well-looking black lady would meet
encouragement as an under bar-maid. Due attention will be paid to applicants, at No. 60, Camp-street.

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH MATRIMONIAL ADVERTISEMENTS.

Matrimonial advertisements being standard articles in our own newspapers at this period, as
a pleasantry they may be compared with the following, extracted from various French journals:--

Une demoiselle bien née et aimable, ayant 120,000 francs de bien, desire épouser un homme âgé
et riche.

Une demoiselle de 24 ans, jolie et d'une education distinguée, ayant 40,000 francs comptant,
et par la suite 200,000 francs, desire épouser un jeune homme aimable, et ayant de la fortune.

Une demoiselle de 19 ans, sans fortune, mais jolie, aimable, et bien élevée, desire épouser
une homme âgé, et assez aisé, pour pouvoir faire quelque bien à sa mère.

J.G.R.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG.

  Oh, silent was her grief and woe,
    No tear her eye betray'd,
  When Damon from his Anna fled,
    And took some other maid!
  But, ah, her bleeding heart did tell
    What outward show denied;
  For at that simple word, "Farewell,"
    She bow'd her head and died!

                             J.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A YOUNG LADY WHO REQUESTED THE AUTHOR TO RESTORE A LOCK OF HAIR HE HAD TAKEN FROM HER.--By
E.S. Barrett.

  By one only recompense can I be led
    With this beautiful ringlet to part;
  That should I restore you the lock of your head,
    You will give me the key of your heart.--Atlas.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARLIAMENTARY QUALIFICATIONS.

When the friends of the youngest Thelluson proposed making him a member of parliament, he said,
"he did not understand exactly what it was to be in parliament, or what they meant by constituents
in the country; but, if there was any necessity to go backwards and forwards for their orders,
he could trot down as fast as any member of parliament in the kingdom."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHANGING NAMES.

Thomas Knight, Esq. whose paternal name was Brodnax, which, very early in life, he changed
for that of May, afterwards, by a statute of 9th Geo. II. took the name of Knight, which occasioned
a facetious member of the house to get up, and propose "a general bill to enable that gentleman
to take what name he pleased."

       *       *       *       *       *

TOUCHSTONE FOR THE TIMES.

  Midas (we read) with wond'rous art of old,
  Whate'er he touch'd, at once transformed to gold;
  This modern statesmen can reverse with ease,
  Touch them with gold, they'll turn to what you please.

       *       *       *       *       *

GENIUS DEFINED.

A wit being asked what the word genius meant, replied, "If you had it in you, you would not
ask the question; but as you have not, you will never know what it means."

       *       *       *       *       *

POOR SACK, (HANGED.)

  Though Sack's misdeed is punished right,
    It never was intended
  That he should leave his office quite,
    He only is suspended.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH

On a man of the name of Fish.

  Worm's bait for fish; but here's a sudden change,
  Fish's bait for worms--is that not passing strange?

