PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 101.

November 14th, 1891.

LETTERS TO ABSTRACTIONS.

No. VI.--TO VANITY.

DEAR VANITY,

I think I can see you smirking and posturing before the abstract mirror, which is your constant
companion. It pleases you, no doubt, to think that anybody should pay you the compliment of
making you the object and the subject of a whole letter. Perhaps when you have read it to the
end you will alter your mood, since it cannot please you to listen to the truth about yourself.
None of those whom you infect here below ever did like it. Sometimes, to be sure, it had to
be endured with many grimaces, but it was extraordinary to note how the clouds caused by the
aggravated truth-teller passed away as soon as his departure had enabled the object of these
reproaches to recover his or her false self again. What boots it, after all, to tell the truth?
For those whom you protect are clad in armour, which is proof against the sharpest lance, and
they can thus bid defiance to all the clumsy attacks of the merely honest and downright--for
a time; but in the end their punishment comes, not always in the manner that their friends
predict, but none the less inevitable in one manner or another. For they all fashion a ridiculous
monster out of affectations, strivings and falsehoods, and label it "Myself;" and in the end
the monster takes breath, and lives and crushes his despised maker, and immediately vanishes
into space.

Permit me to proceed in my usual way, and to offer you an example or two. And I begin with
HERMIONE MAYBLOOM. HERMIONE was one of a large family of delightful daughters. Their father
was the well-known Dr. MAYBLOOM, who was Dean of Archester Cathedral. His massive and convincing
volumes on The Fauna and Flora of the Mosaic Books in their Relation to Modern Botanical Investigation,
must be within your recollection. It was followed, you remember, by The Dean's Duty, which,
being published at a time when there was, so to speak, a boom in religious novels, was ordered
by many readers under the impression that it was likely to upset their mature religious convictions
by its assaults on orthodoxy. Their disappointment when two stout tomes, dealing historically
with the status and duties of Deans, were delivered to them, was the theme of cheerful comment
amongst the light-hearted members of the Dean's own family.

Was there ever in this world so delightful a family circle as that of the Deanery? The daughters
were all pretty, but that was their smallest merit. They were all clever, and well-read, without
a tinge of the bluestocking, and most of them were musical to the tips of their slender fingers.
How merrily their laughter used to ring across the ancient close, and how playfully and gently
they used to rally the dear learned old Dean who had watched over them and cared for them since
Mrs. MAYBLOOM'S death, many years before, with all the tender care of the most devoted mother.
And of this fair and smiling throng, "my only rosary," as the Dean used to call them, HERMIONE
was, I think, the prettiest, as she was certainly the most accomplished. Every kind of gift
had been showered upon her by Nature. When she played her violin, accompanied by her elder
sister on the piano, tears trickled unbidden down the aquiline nose of the militant Bishop
of Archester, the chapter stood hushed to a man, and the surrounding curates were only prevented
by a salutary fear of ruining their chances of preferment from laying themselves, their pittances,
and their garnered store of slippers at her pretty feet. Then in a fit of charming petulance,
she would break off in the middle of the piece, lay down her violin, and, with a pretty imperiousness,
command a younger sister to fetch her zither, on which to complete the subjugation of her adorers.
And then her caricatures--summer-lightning flashes of pencilled wit, as I heard the Reverend
SIMEON COPE describe them in a moment of enthusiasm after she had shown us her sketch of his
rival, the Reverend STEPHEN HANKINSON.

But even in those days, while she still had about her all the fascinations of peerless beauty
and fresh and glowing youth, I mistrusted her. Alone of all the sisters she seemed to me to
be wanting in heart. I heard her several times attempt to snub her father, and once I noted
how she spent a whole evening in moody silence, and refused to play a note, for no other reason
that I could see except that Captain ARBLAST, of the 30th Lancers, the dashing first-born of
the Bishop, who happened to be spending a few days of his long leave in Archester, devoted
himself with all the assiduity of his military nature to twirling his heavy moustache in the
immediate neighbourhood of SOPHY MAYBLOOM, and not in that of HERMIONE. Indeed, I have reason
to know that, after the guests had departed, poor SOPHY had to endure from her sister a dreadful
scene, the harsh details of which have not yet faded from her memory. And then I remembered,
too, how it was a matter of family chaff against HERMIONE that once, not very long after she
had entered upon her teens, she had sobbed convulsively through a whole night, because she
had discovered that her juvenile arms were thin and mottled, and she imagined that she would
never be able to wear a low dress, or shine in Society.

Such, then, was the beautiful HERMIONE, who for some years rode rough-shod over the hearts
of all the males in Archester. Space fails me to enumerate all her engagements. She broke them
one after another without a thought, and cast her admirers away as if they had been dresses
of last year's fashion. Most of them, it must be said, recovered quickly enough, but the miserable
COPE became a hopeless hypochondriac, and never smiled again. He died the other day, and HERMIONE's
sketch of HANKINSON was found, frayed and soiled, in an ancient pocket-book which he always
carried about with him. HANKINSON'S fate seemed at first to be worse. He took to poetry, morbid,
passionate, yearning, unhealthy poetry, of the skimmed SWINBURNE variety, and for a time was
gloomy enough. Having, however, engaged in a paper conflict with one of his critics, he forgot
his sorrows, and though he still declares an overwhelming desire for death and oblivion about
six times a year, in various magazines, he seemed, when I last saw him, fairly comfortable
and happy. But, of course, he has never secured a vicarage.

To return to HERMIONE. She at last married a certain Mr. PARDOE, a barrister practising on
the Archester Circuit, and established herself in town. Shortly afterwards she became the rage.
Her beauty, her wit, her music, her dinners, her diamonds, were spoken of with enthusiasm.
All the elderly roués, whose leathery hearts had been offered up at hundreds of shrines, became
her temporary slaves. She coaxed them, cajoled them, and fooled them, did this innocent daughter
of a simple-minded Dean, to the top of their various bents. She schemed successfully against
countless rivals, in order to maintain her pre-eminence in the admiration of her circle. Her
ambition knew no bounds. She changed her so-called friends every week; she cultivated grand
passions for actors, authors, musicians, and even for professors. Sometimes she played to select
audiences with all her old ravishing skill, but this happened more and more rarely, until at
last she utterly declined, and even went so far as to flout H.S.H. the Duke of KALBSKOPF, who
had been specially invited to meet her.

