The expenses we have quoted were all originally borne by Mr J. P. Wilson. In three years, he
spent L.3289 in payments to teachers, in fitting up schools, in cricket-grounds, excursions,
chaplain's salary, &c. His own salary is L.1000 per annum. And though the proprietors have
refunded all moneys spent by him on these things, and have taken on themselves the future expenses
of the institutions commenced by him, yet that does not diminish the worth of his magnificent
intentions, or take from the largeness of his self-sacrifice and generosity. Add to this simple
expenditure--for it was made in good faith, and in the belief that it was a virtual sacrifice
of income--the labour, want of rest, the constant thought at all times and under all sorts
of pressure--illness and business the most frequent--and we may form a slight estimate of what
this glorious work of educating his young charge has cost a man whose name we must ever mention
with respect.

In Mr J. Wilson's Report, there are many points unattainable to moderate incomes and circumscribed
resources, but many also that it is in the power of every man of education, and consequently
of influence, to carry out in his neighbourhood. Amongst them is that simple item of the cricket-field
and garden-ground. It has become so much the fashion among certain of us, renowned more for
zeal than knowledge, to cry down all amusements for the people, as tending to the subversion
and overthrow of morality, to shut them out from all but the church, the conventicle, and the
gin-shop--that any recognition of this mistake in a more liberal arrangement, may be hailed
as the inauguration of an era of common sense, and consequently of true morality. Amusements
are absolutely necessary for mankind. The nation never existed on this earth which could dispense
with them. Sects rise up every now and then which carry their abhorrence of all that is not
fanaticism--after their own pattern--to the extreme, and which lay pleasure under the same
curse with vice; but sects are cometic, and are not to be judged of after the generalisations
of national character. Practically, we find that rigidness and vice, amusements and morality,
go together, Siamese-like. In the year of the Crystal Palace, the London magistrates had fewer
petty criminals brought before them than at any other period of the same duration; and what
Mr Wilson proves in his cricket-ground, what London shewed in the time of the World's Fair,
generations and countries would always exhibit in larger characters, more widely read--that
the mind and body of man require amusement--simple pleasure--purposeless, aimless, unintellectual,
physical pleasure--as much as his digestive organs require food and his hands work; not as
the sole employment, but mixed in with, and forming the basis and the body of higher things--the
strong practical woof through which the warp of golden stuff is woven into a glorious fabric--a
glorious fabric of national progression. Yes, and into a wider garment still; one that will
cover many an outlying Bedouin cowering in the darkness round--one that will join together
the high and the low, the good and the bad, and so knead up the baser element into amalgamation
with and absorption into the higher. This is no ideal theory. It is a possibility, a practical
fact, proved in this place and in that--wherever men have taken the trouble to act on rational
bases and on a true acceptation of the needs of human nature. For as the quality of light is
to spread, and as the higher things will always absorb the lower, so will schools and kindly
sympathy diffuse knowledge and virtue among the ignorant and brutalised; and Love to Humanity
will once more read its mission in the salvation of a world.

OUT-OF-DOORS LIFE IN CENTRAL EUROPE.

The out-of-doors life enjoyed by the inhabitants of the continent, strikes a person, unacquainted
with their habits and manners, more perhaps than anything which meets his eye in that part
of the world. Rational, agreeable, and healthy as it is, it requires a long time before a thorough
Englishman can accustom himself to it, or feel at all comfortable in eating his meals in the
open air, surrounded by two or three hundred persons employed in the same manner, or crossing
and recrossing, and circling round his table. He is apt to fancy himself the sole object of
curiosity; while, in reality, the eyes which seem to mark him out, have in them perhaps as
little speculation as if they were turned on vacancy. We have been amused, and sometimes ashamed,
in witnessing the painful awkwardness of many of those numerous steam-boat voyagers who, subscribing
in London for their passage to and from the Rhine in a given time, and for a trifling sum,
find themselves in a few hours transported from the bustle of Oxford Street, Ludgate Hill,
or the Strand, to the happy, idle, fat, laughing, easy enjoyment of a German Thee-Garten, in
the midst of four or five hundred men, women, and children--all eating, drinking, and smoking
as if time, cares, and business had no influence over them. It is a life so new to him, and
so diametrically opposed to all his habits and notions, that, in general, it affords him anything
but ease and enjoyment. To those, however, who know how to enjoy it, it affords both. There
is in these popular reunions an ease and confidence, a bonhomie and freedom, of which a Briton,
with all his boasted liberty, has no idea. What is strangest of all to him, no distinction
of rank, wealth, or profession is acknowledged. There are no reserved places. The rich and
the poor, the prince and the artisan, sit down at the same kind of modest little green-painted
tables, with rush-bottomed chairs, all kind, affable, and jovial--all respecting each other.
The child of the citizen comes up without restraint, and plays with the sword-knot of the commander-in-chief;
and the little princess will naïvely offer her bunch of grapes to the peasant who sits at the
next table with his pipe and his tall glass of Bavarian beer. And yet the truest decorum is
observed. There is no noise, no rioting, no intoxication; we have never witnessed a single
example of any of these inconveniences. The education and habits of all the inhabitants of
this part of the world, have been from infancy so regulated, and during many generations so
completely formed to this sort of life, that not the smallest ungracious familiarity ever troubles
these kindly popular reunions.

But let us come to a definite description. We will take the Blum-Garten at Prague, for example--a
city where the aristocracy are as exclusive, as it is called, as anywhere in the world. This
garden, or rather park, is an imperial domain, having formed part of the hunting-park of the
emperors of Germany in the beginning of the fourteenth century. It was planted by the great
and good Charles IV., king of Bohemia, and emperor of Germany, son of that blind king who was
killed at the battle of Cressy by Edward the Black Prince. This park is situated without the
fortifications of the Hradschin, at about half an hour's walk from them, in a valley formed
by the river Moldau, and stretches away to the plateau which forms the eastern boundary of
the valley. On the edge of this plateau, surrounded by gardens and plantations, is situated
the Lust-Haus, or summer residence, in which the governor of Bohemia, or the members of the
imperial family in Prague, pass some days at intervals during the summer months. The principal
descent to the park is by a broad drive, which zig-zags till it gains the proper level. There
are also several pleasant paths which descend in labyrinths under a profusion of lilacs and
other flowering shrubs, overhung by birches and all kinds of forest-trees.

At the foot of the drive is the house of general entertainment, consisting of several apartments,
together with a spacious ball-room--an indispensable requisite, as on the continent all the
world dances. From this house stretches a long wide gravel space, completely shaded from the
noonday heat by four or five vast lime-tree alleys, beneath which are placed some fifty or
a hundred tables. A military band is always to be found on fête-days, and very good music of
some kind is never wanting. Here the whole population of Prague circle with perfect freedom,
and with no attempt at class separations. The first comer is first served, taking any vacant
place most suited to his fancy, or to the convenience of his party. At one table may be seen
the Countess Grünne, her governess, and children, taking their coffee with as much ease and
simplicity as if she were in her own private garden; at another, a group of peasants, with
their smiling faces and picturesque costumes; at a third table, a soldier and his old mother
and sister, whom he is treating on his arrival in his native town. Then come the Archduke Stephen,
with his imperial retinue, and one or two general-officers with their staffs; and at a little
distance, with a merry party of laughing guests, the Prince and Princess Coloredo. In short,
all the tables are by and by occupied by guests continually succeeding each other, of all classes
and of all professions, from the imperial family, down to the most humble artisan; all gay,
amiable, condescending on the one side; happy, respectful, and free from restraint on the other.
Thus the season passes in that delicious climate, which is rendered a thousand times more delicious
by the harmony and good-feeling reigning throughout all these mingled classes of society. In
the evening, the same joyous reunions again take place, with this exception, that after dinner
(which meal takes place generally from three to four, very rarely so late as six, and that
only within the last three or four years) the aristocracy drive round the broad shady alleys
of the park till sunset, while the lawns and paths are crowded with innumerable groups of pedestrians,
before or after taking their evening repast under the lime-trees.

But what makes summer life so agreeable in these countries, is the simplicity and cheapness
with which every variety of necessary refreshment and restoration is afforded, and the multiplicity
of places where such are to be found. Walk in whatever direction you may, in the environs of
any town--wherever there is shade, wherever there is a grove, or a clump of acacias, limes,
or chestnuts, the favourite trees for such purposes, and consequently much cultivated--there
you are sure to find rest and refreshment suited to the wants and purses of all classes--from
the most simple brown bread, milk, and beer, to the most delicate sweetmeats and wines. In
the article of wine, however, Bohemia is not so favoured; but this is a circumstance more felt
by the stranger than by the natives, who like the wines of their own country, as they do the
beer better than our ale and porter. Still, there are some passably good wines, such as Melnik,
Czerniska, and one or two others, and all at a moderate price, varying from 8d. to 1s. a bottle.
But in Hungary we have good wines and extraordinarily cheap, which adds much to these rural
out-of-doors reunions. It is true, that some of the most fashionable restaurateurs, both in
the town and country, have been much spoiled by the extravagance of the higher classes, who
are here the most reckless; carrying this vice in Europe to an excess which has ruined, or
greatly embarrassed, almost all the nobility of the kingdom. Notwithstanding this passion,
however, for everything that is foreign, few countries can be at all compared with Hungary
as to its wines, many of which are scarcely known to any but to the peasants who grow them,
and the local consumers of the same class. These wines, with which every peasant's house, especially
on the skirts of the mountain-districts, and every little bothy-like public-house, are abundantly
furnished, are both red and white, and at a price within the reach of the poorest peasant.
Even in and about the great towns--such as Presburg, near the frontier of Austria--where every
article of food is double and treble the price of the interior--the wines cost no more than
from 2d. to 3d. a quart. Most of the peasants grow their own, and make from 50 to 200, and
even 1500 eimers or casks, containing 63 bottles each; and this is not like many of the poor,
thin, acid wines, known in so many parts of Germany, the north of France, and other countries;
but strong, generous beverage, with a delicious flavour, perfectly devoid of acidity, and at
the same time particularly wholesome. Many of the white wines we prefer to the generality of
those from the Rhine, Moselle, &c.; the red has a kind of Burgundy flavour, with a sparkling
dash of champagne, and is nearly as strong as port, without its heating qualities.

For the sake of these agreeable and cheap enjoyments, the whole of the population of the towns
pass a great part of the summer in the woods, orchards, and gardens in the neighbourhood, where
every want of the table is supplied without the trouble of marketing, cooking, or firing; and,
consequently, in the cool of a summer morning, the inhabitants of Presburg, for instance, may
be seen strolling in different directions--either ascending the vine-covered hills to the fresh
tops, or wending their way through the deep, shady woods, along the side of the Danube, to
the Harbern or the Alt Mülau. There, after having sharpened their appetites with this charming
walk, they find themselves seated at a neat little table, beneath the shade of an old chestnut
or elm. The cloth is laid by the vigilant host as soon as the guest is seated, and often before,
as the former knows his hour; for nothing in machinery can equal the regularity with which
meal-hours are ordered, especially in Germany, where the habitual greeting on the road is:
'Ich wünsche guten appetit'--(I wish you a good appetite.) Coffee, wine, eggs, butter, sausages,
Hungarian and Italian, the original dimensions of which are often two feet long, and four to
five inches thick: these are to be found at the most humble houses of resort, among which are
those frequented by the foresters and gamekeepers, not professed houses of entertainment, yet
always provided with such materials for those who love the merry greenwood, and who extend
their walks within their cool and solitary depths. And now we must speak of the expenses of
these rural repasts. A party of five persons can breakfast in the above manner--that is to
say, on coffee, eggs; sausages, rolls, butter, and a quart bottle of wine--for something less
than 4-1/4d. a head. Those who breakfast more simply, take coffee and rolls--and the natives
rarely, if ever, eat butter in the morning, though a profusion of this, as well as of oil and
lard, enters into the preparation for dinner--and such guests pay only from 3d. to 3-1/2d.
But if wine, which is the most common native production, is taken instead of coffee, it is
always cheaper. Among the middle and lower classes, the favourite refreshment is wine, household
bread, and walnuts; and thus you will constantly find labourers, foresters, or wood-cutters,
joyfully breakfasting together, with their large slices of brown bread and a bottle of wine,
for 2d. a head. Many, again, of the lower classes of labourers bring their own home-baked bread
in their pockets, and get their large tumbler of good wine to moisten it for a half-penny.

The evening, however, is the great time for recreation and redoubled enjoyment, as the labours
and occupations of the day have then ceased; and all without exception, rich and poor, flock
from the town to the sweet, cool, flowery repose of the woods and vineyards, and there take
their evening repast in the midst of the wild luxuriance of nature, 'health in the gale, and
fragrance on the breeze.' And when the sun is gone down, they return in the cool twilight to
their homes, where they find that sweet sleep which movement in the open air alone can give,
and which, with our more confined British habits, few but the peasant ever enjoy.

A word more on Presburg, and we have done. In winter, this place, so little known to travellers,
is frequented by the best society in Hungary; and it becomes a little metropolis, to which
many of the nobility resort from the distance of 300 to 500 miles--from Tokay, and beyond the
Theiss and Transylvania. In summer, perhaps, it offers still more enjoyment; for although the
winter society is then scattered far and near, the town is always animated by the presence
of those who are continually coming and going between Pesth and all parts of the south of Hungary
and Vienna, conveyed either by the railway or by the numerous steam-boats which daily ply on
the Danube. The neighbourhood, as We have already mentioned, is full of simple and healthy
enjoyments, from the number of its delicious drives and walks, and places of rural entertainment,
the quaint names of some of which cannot fail to amuse and attract the stranger. At about half
an hour's drive from the town is the Chokolaten-Garten, much frequented for its excellent chocolate,
which is manufactured on the spot. A little further on, and situated in the centre of one of
the most beautiful little valleys of the Kleine Karpathen, is the Eisen-Brundel, a large house
of entertainment, with a spacious dancing-room; and, without, a luxuriant grove of fine old
trees, forming an impenetrable shelter, beneath which are arranged a number of tables and chairs.
Here every species of entertainment is to be found, from the most simple brown bread, milk,
and fruits, to the most sumptuous champagne dinners; and the prince and the peasant take their
places without ceremony, as in the olden time of Robin Hood and Little John--'all merry under
the greenwood tree.'

Numerous other and still more simple places of refreshment and enjoyment present themselves
at every turn of those delicious mountain-paths, which lead through the little valleys and
hollows of the vineyards overlooking the town. One of the most agreeable is on the summit of
the hill, near the little chapel of St Mary, called Marien Kirche, under the Kalvarienberg,
and from which the eye looks over the whole town and the plain which stretches towards Pesth,
and through which the Danube winds like a vast silver serpent, till it is lost in the far woods
and dim distance. Lower down, and still nearer the town, in a little valley, is 'The Entrance
to the New World!' The house is deliciously situated half-way up a wooded hill crowned with
pines, and clothed with rich orchards and vineyards; not far off, in another little valley,
are the Patzen-Häuser, with their orchards and gardens; and higher up we come to 'The Entrance
to Paradise!' whence, as might be expected, there is a most superb view. This embraces the
whole plain so far as the eye can reach towards the east and south; on the north it is bounded
by the towering mountains of the Great Carpathians, the haunt of bears and wolves, wild boars
and stags; and to the west, between the valleys which are formed by the hills of this smaller
range of the same mountains, is seen the plain of Vienna, in the midst of which can be distinguished
in a clear day the tall spire of St Stephen, rising as if from the bosom of the imperial park
which conceals the capital. Beyond this towers the Neu-klosterberg, with its vast monastery;
and further to the left, like white broken clouds in the blue horizon, are the snow-clad mountains
of Steyer-mark (Styria.)

MY FIRST BRIEF.

I had been at Westminster, and was slowly returning to my 'parlour near the sky,' in Plowden
Buildings, in no very enviable frame of mind. Another added to the long catalogue of unemployed
days and sleepless nights. It was now four years since my call to the bar, and notwithstanding
a constant attendance in the courts, I had hitherto failed in gaining business. God knows,
it was not my fault! During my pupilage, I had read hard, and devoted every energy to the mastery
of a difficult profession, and ever since that period I had pursued a rigid course of study.
And this was the result, that at the age of thirty I was still wholly dependent for my livelihood
on the somewhat slender means of a widowed mother. Ah! reader, if as you ramble through the
pleasant Temple Gardens, on some fine summer evening, enjoying the cool river breeze, and looking
up at those half-monastic retreats, in which life would seem to glide along so calmly, if you
could prevail upon some good-natured Asmodeus to shew you the secrets of the place, how your
mind would shudder at the long silent suffering endured within its precincts. What blighted
hopes and crushed aspirations, what absolute privation and heart-rending sorrow, what genius
killed and health utterly broken down! Could the private history of the Temple be written,
it would prove one of the most interesting, but, at the same time, one of the most mournful
books ever given to the public.

I was returning, as I said, from Westminster, and wearily enough I paced along the busy streets,
exhausted by the stifling heat of the Vice-Chancellor's court, in which I had been patiently
sitting since ten o'clock, vainly waiting for that 'occasion sudden' of which our old law-writers
are so full. Moodily, too, I was revolving in my mind our narrow circumstances, and the poor
hopes I had of mending them; so that it was with no hearty relish I turned into the Cock Tavern,
in order to partake of my usual frugal dinner. Having listlessly despatched it, I sauntered
into the garden, glad to escape from the noise and confusion of the mighty town; and throwing
myself on a seat in one of the summer-houses, watched, almost mechanically, the rapid river-boats
puffing up and down the Thames, with their gay crowds of holiday-makers covering the decks,
the merry children romping over the trim grass-plot, making the old place echo again with their
joyous ringing laughter. I must have been in a very desponding humour that evening, for I continued
sitting there unaffected by the mirth of the glad little creatures around me, and I scarcely
remember another instance of my being proof against the infectious high spirits of children.
Time wore on, and the promenaders, one after the other, left the garden, the steam-boats became
less frequent, and gradually lights began to twinkle from the bridges and the opposite shore.
Still I never once thought of removing from my seat, until I was requested to do so by the
person in charge of the grounds, who was now going round to lock the gates for the night. Staring
at the man for a moment half unconsciously, as if suddenly awaked out of a dream, I muttered
a few words about having forgotten the lateness of the hour, and departed. To shake off the
depression under which I was labouring, I turned into the brilliantly-lighted streets, thinking
that the excitement would distract my thoughts from their gloomy objects; and after walking
for some little time, I entered a coffee-house, at that period much frequented by young lawyers.
Here I ordered a cup of tea, and took up a newspaper to read; but after vainly endeavouring
to interest myself in its pages, and feeling painfully affected by the noisy hilarity of some
gay young students in a neighbouring box, I drank off my sober beverage, and walked home to
my solitary chambers. Oh, how dreary they appeared that night!--how desolate seemed the uncomfortable,
dirty, cold staircase, and that remarkable want of all sorts of conveniences, for which the
Temple has acquired so great a notoriety! In fine, I was fairly hipped; and being convinced
of the fact, smoked a pipe or two--thought over old days and their vanished joys--and retired
to rest. I soon fell into a profound sleep, from which I arose in the morning much refreshed;
and sallying forth after breakfast with greater alacrity than usual, took my seat in court,
and was beginning to grow interested in a somewhat intricate case which involved some curious
legal principles, when my attention was directed to an old man, whom I had frequently seen
there before, beckoning to me. I immediately followed him out of court, when he turned round
and said: 'I beg your pardon, Mr ----, for interrupting you, but I fancy you are not very profitably
engaged just now?'

I smiled, and told him he had stated a melancholy truth.

'I thought so,' answered he with a twinkle of his bright gray eye. 'Now'--and he subdued his
voice to a whisper--'I can put a little business into your hands. No thanks, sir,' said he,
hastily checking my expressions of gratitude--'no thanks; you owe me no thanks; and as I am
a man of few words, I will at once state my meaning. For many years, I have been in the habit
of employing Mr ----' (naming an eminent practitioner); 'and feeling no great love for the
profession, intrusted all my business to him, and cared not to extend my acquaintance with
the members of the bar. Well, sir, I have an important case coming on next week, and as bad
luck will have it, T----'s clerk has just brought me back the brief, with the intelligence
that his master is suddenly taken dangerously ill, and cannot possibly attend to any business.
Here I was completely flung, not knowing whom to employ in this affair. I at length remembered
having noticed a studious-looking young man, who generally sat taking notes of the various
trials. I came to court in order to see whether this youth was still at his ungrateful task,
when my eyes fell upon you. Yes, young man, I had intended once before rewarding you for your
patient industry, and now I have an opportunity of fulfilling those intentions. Do you accept
the proposal?'

'With the greatest pleasure!' cried I, pressing his proffered hand with much emotion, quite
unable to conceal my joy.

'It is as I thought,' muttered he to himself, turning to depart. Then suddenly looking up,
he requested my address, and wished me good-morning.

How I watched the receding form of the stranger! how I scanned over his odd little figure!
and how I loved him for his great goodness! I could remain no longer in court. The interesting
property case had lost all its attractions; so I slipped off my wig and gown, and hastened
home to set my house in order for the expected visit. After completing all the necessary arrangements,
I took down a law-book and commenced reading, in order to beguile away the time. Two, three
o'clock arrived, and still no tidings of my client; I began almost to despair of his coming,
when some one knocked at the outer-door; and on opening it, I found the old man's clerk with
a huge packet of papers in his hand, which he gave me, saying his master would call the following
morning. I clutched the papers eagerly, and turned them admiringly over and over. I read my
name on the back, Mr ----, six guineas. My eyes, I feel sure, must have sparkled at the golden
vision. Six guineas! I could scarcely credit my good-fortune. After the first excitement had
slightly calmed down, I drew a chair to the table, and looked at the labour before me. I found
that it was a much entangled Chancery suit, and would require all the legal ability I could
muster to conquer its details. I therefore set myself vigorously to work, and continued at
my task until the first gray streak of dawn warned me to desist. Next day, I had an interview
with the old solicitor, and rather pleased him by my industry in the matter. Well, the week
slipped by, and everything was in readiness for the approaching trial. All had been satisfactorily
arranged between myself and leader, a man of considerable acumen, and the eventful morning
at length arrived. I had passed a restless night, and felt rather feverish, but was determined
to exert myself to the utmost, as, in all probability, my future success hung on the way I
should acquit myself that day of my duty. The approaching trial was an important one, and had
already drawn some attention. I therefore found the court rather crowded, particularly by an
unusual number of 'the unemployed bar,' who generally throng to hear a maiden-speech. Two or
three ordinary cases stood on the cause-list before mine, and I was anxiously waiting their
termination, when my client whispered in my ear: 'Mr S---- (the Queen's counsel in the case)
has this instant sent down to say, he finds it will be impossible for him to attend to-day,
as he is peremptorily engaged before the House of Lords. The common dodge of these gentry,'
continued he in a disrespectful tone. 'They never find that it will be impossible to attend
so long as the honorarium is unpaid; afterwards---- Bah! Mere robbery, sir--taking the money,
and shirking the work. However, as we cannot help ourselves, you must do the best you can alone;
for I fear the judge will not postpone the trial any longer. Come, and have a dram of brandy,
and keep your nerves steady, and all will go well.' I need not say it required all his persuasion
to enable me to pluck up sufficient courage to fight the battle, deserted as I now found myself
by my leader; still, I resolved to make the attempt. Presently the awful moment arrived, and
I rose in a state of intense trepidation. The judge seeing a stranger about to conduct the
case, put his glass up to his eye, in order the better to make himself acquainted with my features,
and at the same time demanded my name. I shall never forget the agitation of that moment. I
literally shook as I heard the sound of my own voice answering his question. I felt that a
hundred eyes were upon me, ready to ridicule any blunder I might commit, and even now half
enjoying my nervousness. For a minute, I was so dizzy and confused, that I found it utterly
impossible to proceed; but, warned by the deep-toned voice of the magistrate that the court
was waiting for me, I made a desperate effort at self-control, and commenced. A dead quiet
prevailed as I opened the case, and for a few minutes I went on scarcely knowing what I was
about, when I was suddenly interrupted by the vice-chancellor asking me a question. This timely
little incident in some measure tended to restore my self-possession, and I found I got on
afterwards much more comfortably; and, gradually warming with the subject, which I thoroughly
understood, finally lost all trepidation, and brought my speech to a successful close. It occupied
at least two hours; and when I sat down, the judge smiled, and paid a compliment to the ability
with which he was pleased to say I had conducted the process, whilst at least a dozen hands
were held out to congratulate on his success the poor lawyer whom they had passed by in silent
contempt a hundred times before. So runs life. Had I failed through nervousness, or any other
accident, derisive laughter would have greeted my misfortune. As it was, I began to have troops
of friends. To be brief, I won the day, and from that lucky circumstance rose rapidly into
practice.

