THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XVII. No. 472.] SATURDAY, JANUARY 22, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRIST CHURCH, DONCASTER.

(From the Gentleman's Magazine.)

The town of Doncaster has been long celebrated for its beauty and cleanliness, for its striking
approach from the south, its magnificent Grand Stand, and celebrated Race Course, its public
buildings, its venerable Gothic Church, and stately tower; and latterly, by the erection of
a beautiful Gothic Church, with an elegant spire, giving an additional feature to the town
from every approach.

This new Church was founded and endowed by a benevolent individual of the name of Jarrett,
whose ancestors had for a number of years been connected with the town of Doncaster. A monument
in the old church states that a brother of the founder was an alderman of this borough. John
Jarrett, Esq. the founder of Christ Church, was in early life a manufacturer at Bradford; subsequently,
during the war, he became a partner in the extensive ironworks carried on at Low Moor, near
Bradford, under the firm of Jarrett, Danson, and Hardy, where he acquired a very large fortune.
Retiring from business some years ago, he returned to his native town, to enjoy the fruits
of his honest industry; and during a period of several years, he, by acts of kindness and benevolence,
acquired the respect and esteem of his fellow-townsmen. It pleased the Great Disposer of events
to terminate his life before the completion of this his last pious work. The first stone of
the church was laid on the 9th of October, 1827; and the founder died on the 15th of January,
1828, at the age of eighty-three. The sums he gave were, 10,000l. for the building, and 3,000l.
for the endowment.

The site of the church, at the point where the Thorne road branches from the great North road,
is particularly fine and open, occupying about two and a half acres of ground, surrounded by
wide and spacious public roads. The style of architecture adopted is that which prevailed in
the fourteenth century. The stone used is from the celebrated quarries of Roche Abbey.

The plan of the church comprises a tower, nave, two side-aisles, and a chancel; the latter,
together with two vestries, forms a semi-octagonal projection, which gives the east end a multangular
and unusual appearance. There are six windows to each aisle, and a seventh at the north-east
and south-east vestries. Each of these is divided horizontally by two cross-mullions, and thereby
formed into twelve lights; the centre three are square quartrefoils; and the tracery at the
head forms three other quartrefoils. The east window is of six principal lights, and the upper
part spread out in tracery.

The principal entrance is through a spacious octangular porch, the whole size of the tower,
which is groined in imitation of stone. The entrance to the galleries and side-aisles is by
the doors on the north and south sides of the church.

The size of the church from the tower to the chancel, in the interior, is ninety-four feet
long, and fifty-two wide, with galleries at the south and north sides and west end. The accommodation
is for one thousand persons, of which three hundred seats are free and unappropriated. The
ceiling above the nave is divided into square compartments, by bold ornamented beams, with
bosses at the intersection, which are painted in imitation of oak. The side-aisles are groined
in imitation of stone, having bosses at the intersection of the ribs, with corbels for the
ribs to rise from.

The pulpit, reading, and clerk's desks accord in style with the building, and are placed in
the centre of the middle aisle, which is ten feet wide. A handsome stone font is placed in
front of the west entrance.

We cannot conclude this account without expressing our admiration of this beautiful specimen
of modern architecture, which, although not free from defects, possesses architectural merit
in a very high degree. The uniform correctness of style in the detail, the beautiful and finely-proportioned
spire, the chaste and elegant tracery of the windows, the light ornamental buttresses and pinnacles,
all combine to give a character to the building pleasing and satisfactory, and reflect great
credit on the architects, Messrs. Woodhead and Hurst, of Doncaster.

The building was consecrated by his Grace the Archbishop of York, on the 10th of September,
1829; and the church opened for divine service on the 1st of November following.

The Rev. Henry Branson is appointed the first minister to this church; and the friends of the
establishment will hear with satisfaction that, since the opening, the number of worshippers
has increased by those who formerly attended the dissenting meeting-houses in the town and
neighbourhood.

A subscription has been raised for an organ, which is now building by Gray, of London.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAGNA CHARTA ISLAND.

(To the Editor.)

An early and constant subscriber to the Mirror is very much pleased with the view of Magna
Charta Island, in No. 467; but there is something more attached to this spot than the Editor
seems aware of.

About half a mile from Magna Charta Island, on the right bank of the river, in the parish of
Wyrardisbury, is a farm house, for many years past in the occupation of a family of the name
of "Groome," as tenants to the late Alderman Gill, holding an estate in the aforesaid parish.
This farm house was a residence of King John, whose arms are beautifully, painted, or emblazoned,
on stained glass in the windows of the house.

In the kitchen of this farm-house is, or has been, a table of antique manufacture, upon which
the identical Magna Charta was signed, and upon which the writer hereof has written and sealed
many a letter, and partaken of many a glass of home-brewed ale, and bread and cheese equally
homely--that is, genuine. This table is considered as an heir loom in the family of Mr. Gill,
and if removed at all, has been removed to the manor-house.

It is an erroneous idea that Magna Charta was signed on Runnymede: it was signed on Magna Charta
Island, which goes a great way to prove the identity of the table. If reference is made to
the signing of treaties generally, as well in ancient as in modern times, it will appear that
they have been signed at a distance from the scene of action; each party (particularly in feudal
times) being attended by an equal number of adherents, to prevent surprise or stratagem.

The writer hereof has caught many a trout and perch off the banks opposite to the island, and
has passed many a contemplative hour on the events of former ages, which have rendered the
spot particularly interesting.

Gray's Walk, Lambeth.

L.

*** If the writer is not mistaken, Magna Charta Island is an appurtenant to the manor of Wyrardisbury,
and adjoins an estate called Ankerwicke, upon the grounds of which are the remains of an ancient
monastery, or priory.

       *       *      *       *

THE WATER KING'S BRIDE.

FROM THE GERMAN OF SCHILLER.

(For the Mirror.)

  Light o'er the water the sun's ray glanc'd,
  While the youths and maidens of Tubingen danc'd.
  A stranger youth of noble mien,
  Proffered his hand to the village queen.
  "Youth, say why is thine hand so white?
  The water knows not the daybeams light;
  Youth, oh why is so cold thine arm,
  Can it in Neckar's flood be warm?"
  He led her away from the lime-tree's shade;
  "Return my daughter," her mother said.
  He led her on to the stream so clear,
  "Oh youth let me go, for I tremble with fear."
  He danc'd till they reach'd the Neckar's bank,
  One shriek, one plunge, in the wave they sank.
  "Farewell, farewell, to thee, Tubingen's pride,
  Maiden, thou art the Water King's Bride."

H.

       *       *       *       *       *

WOMAN.

(For the Mirror.)

The following curious compliment to the fair sex is extracted from an old play, entitled "Cupid's
Whirligig:"--

"Who would abuse your sex that knows it? O Woman! were we not born of you?--should we not then
honour you? Nursed by you, and not regard you? Made for you, and not seek you! And since we
were made before you, should we not live and admire you as the last and most perfect work of
Nature? Man was made when Nature was but an apprentice; but Woman when she was a skilful mistress
of her art. By your love we live in double breath, even in our offspring after death. Are not
all vices masculine, and virtues feminine? Are not the muses the loves of the learned? Do not
all noble spirits follow the graces because they are women? There is but one phoenix, and she
is a female. Was not the princess and foundress of good arts, Minerva, born of the brain of
highest Jove, a woman? Has not woman the face of love, the tongue of persuasion, and the body
of delight? O divine, perfectioned woman! If to be of thy sex is so excellent, what is it then
to be a woman enriched by nature, made excellent by education, noble by birth, chaste by virtue,
adorned by beauty!--a fair woman, which is the ornament of heaven, the grace of earth, the
joy of life, and the delight of all sense, even the very summum bonum of man's existence."

Burns must have had somewhat of the same idea as that which I have underlined, when he wrote--

  "Her 'prentice han' she tried on man,
  And then she made the lasses O!"

JAC-CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VICTORY OF THE CID.

(For the Mirror.)

The subject of the following lines is mentioned in the traditional histories of Spain: that
on one occasion, to insure victory in a nocturnal attack on the Moslem camp, the body of the
Cid was taken from the tomb, and carried in complete armour to the field of battle.

  Not a voice was heard at our hour of need,
  When we plac'd the corse on his barbed steed,
    Save one, that the blessing gave.
  Not a light beam'd on the charnel porch
  Save the glare which flash'd from the warrior's torch,
    O'er the death-pale face of the brave.

  We press'd the helm on his ghastly head,
  We bound a sword to the hand of the dead,
    When the Cid went forth to fight.
  Oh where was Castile's battle cry,
  The shout of St. James and victory,
    And the Christians stalwart might?

  The winds swept by with mournful blast,
  And sigh'd through the plumes of the dead as he past,
  Through troublous skies the clouds flitted fast,
  And the moon her pale beam faintly cast,
    Where the red cross banner stream'd,
  But each breeze bore the shouts of the Moslem throng,
  Each sigh was echoed by Paynim song;
    Where the silvery crescent beam'd.

  Undrawn was the rein, and his own good sword
  Ungrasp'd by the nerveless hand of its lord;
  His steed pac'd on with solemn tread,
  'Neath the listless weight of the mighty deed.
    But each warrior's heart beat high,
  As he mark'd the beacon's wavering flash,
  And heard the Moorish cymbal clash,
    For he knew that the Cid was nigh.

  We bore him back to his silent bed,
  When his plumes with Paynim blood were red,
  And the mass was sung, and the prayer was said
    For the conqueror from the grave.
  We wrapp'd him again in his funeral vest,
  We placed his sword on the clay cold breast,
  And o'er the place of the hero's rest,
    Bade Castile's banner wave.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

THE AEOLOPHON, A NEWLY-INVENTED INSTRUMENT.

When Lord Stanhope first launched his model-boat on the Serpentine, no one expected to see
the time when steam and paddles should suffice to carry "a tall ship" across the broad Atlantic.
As little did we, when we were first amused by that very pretty musical toy, the German Eolina,
anticipate, that within three years we should hear such an instrument as the one we are about
to describe. In shape, size, and compass, the AEOLOPHON is the counterpart of a babinet piano-forte,
having six octaves of keys extending from FF to F; and its sounds are produced by a series
of metallic springs, set in vibration by the action of the air produced from a bellows. It
has three pedals--one for filling the wind-chest, and the others regulating the swell. The
tone of this instrument, particularly in the middle and lower parts of its compass, is among
the most beautiful we have ever heard, and much superior, both in body and quality, to that
of any chamber organ of equal size; added to which, the Aeolophon has the inestimable advantage
of never varying its pitch, or getting out of tune.

From the nature of this instrument, it will be readily conceived that its best effects are
displayed in slow movements, and the sustaining and swelling long notes; but, to our surprise
as well as pleasure, we found that a running passage, even of semitones, could be executed
upon it, if not with all the distinctness of a Drouet or a Nicholson, with as much clearness
as on any organ. As an accompaniment to the piano-forte, it will be found an admirable substitute
for the flute, clarinet, oboe, bassoon, or even violoncello; but perhaps its widest range of
usefulness will be discovered in small orchestras, where the set of wind instruments is incomplete--the
effects of any, or even all of which, may be supplied by one or two performers on the Aeolophon
reading from the score, or even from separate parts.

It is now about a year since that a patent was obtained for the springs, and this peculiar
mode of applying them, by Messrs. Day and Co.; immediately upon hearing the effect of which,
Mr. Chappell, of Bond-street, entered into an engagement with the patentees for the agency
of their patent, and the manufacture of instruments under it.

On the 27th of November last Mr. Chappell was honoured with a command to exhibit the powers
of this new instrument before their Majesties, his Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex, and a
small circle of nobility, at St. James's Palace; when it gave so much satisfaction, that some
of the pieces played upon it were repeated by command, and the whole performance lasted from
nine o'clock till past eleven, when the royal party retired.

(We quote the preceding from The Harmonicon, a Journal of Music and Musical Literature, of
high promise. Its recommendation of The Aeolophon may be allowed to rest upon the character
of the Journal for critical acumen.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH-BOOK.

COACH COMPANY.

(For the Mirror.)

Returning (said my friend Mrs. S.) once upon a time, some fifty miles from a country visit,
a few difficulties regarding my conveyance to town were at length decided by my taking a seat
in the ---- Telegraph. A respectable-looking, middle-aged woman, in widow's mourning, was,
I found, to be my companion for the whole way, whose urbanity and loquacity, combined, soon
afforded me the important information that she was travelling over England, in order to take
the advice of several of the faculty touching the case of "a poor cripple--a gentleman--a relation
of hers." A gentleman! But scarcely had I taken another survey of the honest dame, in order
to assure myself that she at least was not a member of the aristocracy of Great Britain, and
thereby to instruct my judgment as to the actual rank of him whom she designated by so proud
a title, when I was favoured with a long history of "the lady who lost her shawl, which I found--and
she has visited me ever since." A lady!--and a lady, good, agreeable, and condescending, no
doubt; but--the query occurred to my mind involuntarily--what kind of lady must she be who
would "come oft'n to take a cup o' tea, or a sup o' sommat better, wi' me, in my poor little
place?"

I confess, this voluntary information, not less than the tone and language in which it was
delivered, prejudiced me so little in favour of my companion, that I took up pencil and paper,
and was shortly wrapped in the most agreeable reverie. Briefly, I was in the exquisite Land
of Faerie: I beheld the beautiful little people; their tiny feet twinkled in the dance; their
small arms waved lightly and gently; and their perfect forms were miniature models of all loveliness
and grace;--the rosy blush of affection tinted the delicate cheeks of the fair; their eyes
gleamed, like the minute gems which cluster around the ice-plant;--and lo! a pair, as far different
from these as is darkness from light, now peered into my face, and a voice, very unlike the
blissful tones of the gay music of Faëry Land, exclaimed,

"Um 'fear'd you ar'n't well, mum, hey?"

"Thank you, I am perfectly well."

"Are you indeed? why you set up your eyes, and looked as pale and peekin like, as if you'd
seen a sperrit."

"Did I? perhaps I was thinking; and naturally I am very pale."

"Oh well--um glad 'tis no wuss; but setting there as you do, with your back to the osses, 'tis
the most foolishest thing in the wuld, for a sickly-like-looking cretur, as I may say yourself,
to think on--du come o' this side."

I declined the good woman's proposition, alleging that riding backwards I always found the
best preventive of illness from the motion of the vehicle.

"Now really," I exclaimed she, almost aghast with astonishment, "that is curous! But um fear'd
you're faint, though you won't tell me so. Here," handing to me a large basket, well stored,
I perceived, with provender, "take a happle, or a bun, or a sandwage, or a bit o' gingerbread--and
a fine thing too it is for the stomach--or a pear, or a puff, or a chiscake;--I always take
a cup of chocolate, and a slice of rich plum-cake, every morning after breakfast: 'tis peticklar
wholesome, a gentleman of my acquaintance says; and this I know, I should be dead in no time
if I didn't--so du take something."

I could not be so ill-natured as to reject all the offers made me by this benevolent, but uncouth
gentlewoman, so accepted a sandwich, and thereby giving her, as it were, a signal to commence
operations. To work she applied herself upon the contents of her wicker store-room, with such
hearty good-will, that I imagined myself secured from her volubility for at least one hour.
Alas! alas! her tongue and her teeth were, I verily believe, running a race; and when the good
dame discovered that to her queries and remarks I deigned not a reply, she "just was so glad
there was somebody in the coach to talk to, for 'twas the most moanfullest thing in the wuld
to go journeying on and on, for long, long miles, without ever 'earing a body speak." I would
not appear to understand my persevering friend's insinuation, and was quickly lost in the charming
description of wild, woodland scenery, afforded by one of Sir Walter's novels: here a slight
bridge hung, as in air, between gigantic rocks, and over a foaming cataract; there, a light
column of bluish, curling smoke told of the shepherd's shieling, situated, bosomed in trees,
amid some solitary pass of the mountains; here, the dark, melancholy pine reared its mournful
head, companioned by the sable fir, the larch, the service-tree, and the wild cherry; there,
the silvery willow laved its drooping branches in the stormy flood; whilst, with the white
foam of the joyous exulting waters, all trees of beauty, majesty, and grace, rising from a
richly-verdant turfing, formed a delightful contrast. I heard the cry of the soaring eaglet,
as he rose from his eyry in the rock; wild, but pleasant music was in the cool, strong wind,
which flowed now roughly around, and lashed me, like the sweeping sea-wave.

"Hey? Um 'fear'd you're a trifle ard of 'earing, arn't you? Why then put a roasted ingin when
you go to bed into your earn, and I'll warrant 'twill cure you if you do 't reglar."

"O dear, no ma'am," I replied; "indeed I'm not deaf," with a peculiar emphasis on this last word.

"No? Well, I do declare then, I've been haxing you to admire this fine country for this ten
minutes;--only look! 'tis a vast deal more bootiful than the road I travelled t'other day!"

So, to please the honest woman, I looked at her "fine country," and beheld on my side the road
(for we were sitting at cross corners) a stunted hedge-row, inclosing a field or two of stubble;
and on hers, a sear, dismal heath, whereupon were marshalled, in irregular array, a few miserable,
brown furze bushes; amongst which, a meagre, shaggy ass, more miserable still, with his hind
legs logged and chained, was endeavouring to pick up a scanty subsistence. What the road of
the other day could have been, it surpassed even my capacity, with this specimen of "the bootiful"
before me, to surmise; but my companion was evidently one of those enviable individuals, whose
ignorance is indeed their happiness, or whose imagination supplies the deficiencies of bare
reality.

Shortly afterwards we took up another passenger--a "lady" also--whose figure was youthful,
and whose face, perhaps, was not otherwise; but as she was weeping bitterly, her features were
concealed by a white cambric mouchoir from my curious gaze. Poor creature! Had she parted from
a lover?--a parent?--a child? Was she a reduced lady, quitting, for the first time and the
last, her paternal home, to seek, by the exertion of her talents, or the labour of her hands,
a precarious subsistence in the cold, wide world? Had she hurried from the bed of death? or,
did she merely indulge in the soft sentimental sorrow, induced by Colburn's, or Longman's,
or Newman's last novel? Alas! the fair mourner informed us not. I felt delicate on the point
of intruding upon private sorrows, and so, I presume, did my loquacious friend for she was
actually silent;--albeit, I perceived that the good woman was embarrassed as to the line of
conduct she ought to adopt towards the afflicted stranger. To make acquaintance with, and comfort
her, was the prompting of her benevolent heart; so she put a blue glass bottle of smelling-salts
into the mournful lady's hand, which was immediately returned with a dignified, repellant bow.
The basket of provisions was next offered; but this the weeping fair one, it was clear, did
not see; and my honest widow, not a little disconcerted, made yet another attempt to console
one who evidently "would not be comforted," by a full, particular, and authentic relation of
certain woful passages in her own monotonous life. All, however, would not do--Niobe still
wept; and the widow and I felt ourselves in a very awkward, uncomfortable situation.

After awhile, however, we took up another passenger--a "lady" again--and, Heaven bless the
woman! one even more voluble than my first companion, and decidedly more candid, since she
had not been seated five minutes in the vehicle, ere she unblushingly announced herself--a
baker's wife! Good Heavens! and in these march-of-intellect and refinement days, too! Well
might Niobe wake with a start from her trance of woe, and, glancing sovereign contempt upon
the new, unconscious passenger, discover to me a countenance as plain, withered, and fraught
with the impress of evil passions, as that of the Lady in the Sacque, in Sir Walter's tale
of the Tapestried Chamber. I never beheld so fretful and malignant-looking a being!--and the
contrast which her visage afforded to that of my kind-hearted widow, which beamed with satisfaction
and good-humour, was quite remarkable. This "lady," indeed, now appeared to have regained her
native element, and not to be out-done in frankness by Mistress Baker, first avowed herself
the widow of a chandler, but lately retired from business; and subsequently I gathered from
her discourse that the gentleman her relation was, until his infirmity deprived him of the
situation--groom, in a REAL gentleman's family (the distinction I particularly admired); and
that the lady, her condescending friend, was a grocer's daughter! Niobe, at this precise point
of the conversation, bestowed a ghastly grin upon the new allies, and producing from her reticule
a well-soiled and much be-thumbed volume (whether of plays, or a novel, I could not discern),
commenced perusing it with an avidity apparently unchecked by its disgusting odour, the which
powerfully assailed me. I, too, was allowed by my loquacious widow, now that she had fallen
in with a bird of her own feather, to read in peace for the space of some three or four miles;
but at length my attention was aroused from my book by the loud voice of Mrs. Baker, who was
promulgating to Dame Chandler the mysterious manner in which she fattened her dogs, by giving
them, twice or thrice a day, a quartern loaf, crumbed, and sopped in melted fat, or dripping,
which saved meat, since the animals liked that food far better. But at this instant the Telegraph
stopped; and the coachman demanding his fare, since she had reached the place at which she
had desired to be set down, a violent altercation ensued between them respecting sixpence;
and finally the lady just stepped out of the vehicle in time to save herself from the indignity
of being pulled from it by its infuriated driver.

"A fine sturren (stirring), business-like woman!" exclaimed the widow, as we again proceeded;
"likelies to turn a penny whiles other folks lay a bed snoring; but mortal wasteful um sure,
for one that talks about saving! Meat indeed she may save; but lauk now, only consate the grase
she gives 'em confounded brutes, and the taller trade so low!"

"And only think," added I, "of the numbers of poor creatures who are starving, whilst she bestows
quartern loaves of fine white bread upon her dogs!"

"An' has for saving meat," cried Niobe (then did she speak for the first time), "sure am I,
my fath--that's to say, the butchers, wouldn't thank her for her pains."

Here was a discovery! but a greater was at hand; for when the Telegraph arrived at its destination--the
White Horse, Fetter-lane--a livery-servant met this sentimental, and inordinately proud, and
ill-humoured lady; and after delivering a message from her "new misses," called a hackney-coach
to convey her to her "new place."

My honest widow hurried to the bar, in order to obtain some stomachic which should enable her
to endure the further fatigue of reaching her own abode; and Mr. S. (a real gentleman I hope)
meeting me, I amused him uncommonly with this description of my fellow-travellers, as we returned
to our happy home in ---- Square.--M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

MECHANICAL POWER OF COALS.

The Menai Bridge, one of the most stupendous works of art that has been raised by man in modern
ages, consists of a mass of iron, not less than four millions of pounds in weight, suspended
at a medium height of about 120 feet above the sea. The consumption of seven hanhels of coal
would suffice to raise it to the place where it hangs.

The great pyramid of Egypt is composed of granite. It is 700 feet in the side of its base,
and 500 in perpendicular height, and stands on eleven acres of ground. Its weight is, therefore,
12,760 millions of pounds, at a medium height of 125 feet; consequently it would be raised
by the effort of about 630 chaldrons of coal, a quantity consumed in some founderies in a week.

The annual consumption of coal in London is estimated at 1,500,000 chaldrons. The effort of
this quantity would suffice to raise a cubical block of marble, 2,200 feet in the side, through
a space equal to its own height, or to pile one such mountain upon another. The Monte Nuovo,
near Pozzuoli, (which was erupted in a single night by volcanic fire,) might have been raised
by such an effort from a depth of 40,000 feet, or about eight miles.--Cabinet Cyclopaedia,
vol. xiv.

       *       *       *       *       *

WONDROUS EFFECTS OF CHEMISTRY.

Not to mention the impulse which its progress has given to a host of other sciences, what strange
and unexpected results has it not brought to light in its application to some of the most common
objects! Who, for instance, would have conceived that linen rags were capable of producing
more than their own weight of sugar, by the simple agency of one of the cheapest and most abundant
acids?--that dry bones could be a magazine of nutriment, capable of preservation for years,
and ready to yield up their sustenance in the form best adapted to the support of life, on
the application of that powerful agent, steam, which enters so largely into all our processes,
or of an acid at once cheap and durable?--that sawdust itself is susceptible of conversion
into a substance bearing no remote analogy to bread; and though certainly less palatable than
that of flour, yet noway disagreeable, and both wholesome and digestible as well as highly
nutritive?

       *       *       *       *       *

FIRST ENGLISH COLONY IN AMERICA.

The first attempt of the English to effect any settlement in America, was made by Sir Humphrey
Gilbert, who, in the month of June, 1578, obtained a patent from Queen Elizabeth, authorizing
him to plant a colony in that country. Gilbert's project failed; but it was afterwards resumed
by his half-brother, the celebrated Sir Walter Raleigh, who, in 1584, obtained a patent similar
to that which had been granted to Gilbert, and next year planted a colony at the mouth of the
Roanoke, naming the country Virginia in honour of his royal mistress. But all these settlers,
as well as others who crossed the Atlantic during the next twenty years, either perished by
famine and disease, or by the hands of the Indians, or returned to England.--Cabinet Cyclopaedia,
vol. xiii.; being vol. i. of the History of the Western World--United States of America.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRADITIONS OF THE INDIANS.

According to the unambitious belief of the Osages, a people living on the banks of one of the
lower tributaries of the Missouri, they are sprung from a snail and a beaver. The Mandans believe
their ancestors once lived in a large village under ground, near a subterranean lake; that
by means of a vine tree, which extended its roots to their cheerless habitation, they got a
glimpse of the light; that informed by some adventurers, who had visited the upper world, of
the numerous buffaloes pasturing on the plains, and of the trees loaded with delicious fruits,
the whole nation, with one consent, began to ascend the roots of the vine; but that, when about
the half of them had reached the surface, a corpulent woman climbing up, broke the roots by
her weight; that the earth immediately closed, and concealed for ever from those below the
cheering beams of the sun. From a people who entertain such fanciful notions of their origin,
no valuable information concerning their early history can be expected.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

POLITE SLAUGHTERING OF AN ENEMY.

At times, an Indian warrior, when about to kill and scalp a prostrate enemy, addresses him
in such terms as the following:--

"My name is Cashegra: I am a famous warrior, and am going to kill you. When you reach the land
of spirits, you will see the ghost of my father: tell him it was Cashegra sent you there."
The uplifted tomahawk then descends upon his victim.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

A SCENE ON THE "COSTA FIRME."

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

DIRGE.

  Green be the turf o'er thy head,
  Light lie the earth on thy breast,
  Peaceful and calm be thy sleep,
  Till thou'rt called to rejoice with the blest.

  Though we weep, yet we joy at thy lot,
  Though we mourn thee, we yet can resign,
  Though we sorrow, 'tis not without hope,
  Though we lose thee, forbear to repine.

  From the cares and the pains of this world
  Thy beatified spirit is free,
  'Twould be selfish in us to deplore,
  For we know that thy God is with thee.

Royal Lady's Magazine. No. 1.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REBELLION IN STOCK POGIS.

Answer to Mrs. Jones's Letter in Hood's Comic Annual.[1]

Padinton third Janeary 1831.

Dr. Mrs. Jones,--I take Pin in hand to Scratch you a few Remarks in return for your kind Pestle:
it however gav me a sevear Blow to hear of my deer frends Roofall Sitawayshun: keep up your
Spirits, do my deer Frend, I dout not in your next I shall hear you have taken to your Old
Rum again down stairs and find the Windy-Pains in a Hole condishun--Yet what can you Relie
on when the Country Gernals is filled with sheets of Flams of Steaks and Bairns burnt to their
foundhayshones. But let you and me Mrs. J. hop that these evil Doors may be sicured. I have
a bit of Noose for you--Swing is taken and Lockt up--let us hop then that Steps may be taken
for capshining his Canfeedrats--You enquier what our King and Manystirs think of Stuck Puggys
I beleeve they think your Magasstearall Funkshunareas mite have shone more Hacktivity and Incision
again armed Poplars and Incieders--but its all owing to the March of Intellx--instid of mindin
there work they are always runnin to heer some Seedishus Ourang or other on the Harrastocrazy--they
now call themselves the Industerious Classis, formally they was called The Lore Ordurs. My
Servint gal atends Love Feasts and Missinarea Meetins and has the impidence to tell me she
has a Soal as valleyable as my own and actally askt if her minnyster mite be aloud to come
and prepair me for Heavn; but I told the uzzy to prepair herself for another place and gav
her a munths warnin to soot herself--but about the parleymeant--Hurl Grey the Primer has a
load on his sholders wich I hop he will be able to discharg an all go off quiet: He has pledgd
himself for to the caws for Riform an says hell Redrench evry Place where he has Grounds: and
they all talk about Pooling Mesurs; but the Wetterun Bishop Sincurers and Cloaths borrowers
show pourfull Oppisishun and perplix and embrace all his Plans--Pettyshuns come in from all
Parts for Necromancypassion, wich I take to be some new plan for washin the Blackamer wite--also
for the vote by Ballad which Mr. Hum supports and likewis Mr. Oconl the Hireish mimber wich
wants the Onion to be repeeled and caws all Hireland Watery eyes; but I hop sich Cryses will
niver arrive----I supose youve herd Hunt is returnd for Prestun wherby Im sorry to heer of
a incindery sittin in the ows, for he not only first burnt the Corn but sold it after to the
pure Peeple--but is Blackin his good--Our new lord Canceller Brewem gives us Hops that he will
put a end to all the Old Suits without making any New Breeches wich wrong incisions wold show
Shear hignoranc--but hes no Goos!--Mr. Grant wants to Mancypate the Jews-- Porkreetchers! my
next Nabor Levy says they are a Pursycutish Race thogh they hav Numbers of Genesis among them
fit for Trusts on Securitys; but let who will be in or out somethin must be done. Winters com
and the ole Country wants instand Releafing thoug I hop no Treesunable acts will be manny fisted
be the Peeple--Nobody now cant sell nothing Goods hangs on hand and Malefactors are dropping
in every line--Soverins is scars and Peeples ready to tear each other to peeces for um--We
want some change----In the Naborhood of Manshister thirty thousn Wafers are in a state of Risibility
which is no laughin matter, havin struck for more Wags tho' they get therty shillins a Weak
and are always in Labor!--this abolition of feelin shold be checkt, for if it is to go on it
will most likly continew----As you observe, the Rag for Chang is grate--as they say The Scullmasters
Abroad and the Scull all in confushon--Old Head devices done away with and Hairy Cassles supplyin
the place--Aspics on the Continence seem very embracing--tho the Trials in France is over the
People are in Truble--I hope the Rising in the Low Kantrys is over--The Poles seem to be makin
head again the Rushons in great Armd Bodis--bent on Deth or imprisonment to get Liberty--In
short all Eurups in Harms; but nothins so Barberus as Civil comoshins Hopin all is over with
You, and restin asshurd Stuck Puggys is not likely to rise again, I conclude remaining Your
sincer Frend and well wisher A HUMPHRIES.

    [1] From the Literary Gazette. See Notice of the Comic
        Annual--Mirror, No. 467.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOME PASSAGES FROM THE DIARY OF THE LATE MR. ST. JOHN LONG.

  "Aye--there's the rub."--HAMLET.

