THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 17, No. 492.] SATURDAY, JUNE 4, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

THREE BOROUGHS

THREE BOROUGHS:

  1. DUNWICH, SUFFOLK.
  2. OLD SARUM, WILTS.
  3. BRAMBER, SUSSEX.

Proposed to be wholly disfranchised by "the Reform Bill."

We feel ourselves on ticklish--debateable ground; yet we only wish to illustrate the topographical
history of the above places; their parliamentary history must, however be alluded to; but their
future fate we leave to the 658 prime movers of government mechanics. Mr. Oldfield's History
of the Boroughs, the best companion of the member of parliament, shall aid us: instead of companion
we might, however, call this work his family, for there are six full-grown octavo volumes,
which would occupy a respectable portion of any library table.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dunwich is a market town in the hundred of Blything, Suffolk, three and a half miles from Southwold,
and one hundred from London. It was once an important, opulent, and commercial city, but is
now a mean village. It was also an episcopal see, but William I. transferred the see to Thetford,
and thence to Norwich. Dunwich stands on a cliff of considerable height commanding an extensive
view of the German Ocean, and we learn that its ruin is owing chiefly to the encroachments
of the sea. It is a poor, desolate place, as the cut implies. Mr. Shoberl, in the Beauties
of England and Wales, tells us "seated upon a hill composed of loam and sand of a loose texture,
on a coast destitute of rocks, it is not surprising that its building shall have successively
yielded to the impetuosity of the billows, breaking against, and easily undermining the foot
of the precipice." Certainly not, say we; and it is equally un-surprising that seven out of
its eight parishes having been long ago destroyed, their political consequence should not exist
beyond their extermination. Mr. Oldfield, whom we remember to have often met, was a man of
jocose turn, and he has not spared Dunwich his whip of humour, for, speaking of its gradual
decay by the sea, he says--"the encroachment that is still making, (1816) will probably, in
a few years, oblige the constituent body to betake themselves to a boat, whenever the king's
writ shall summon them to the exercise of their elective functions; as the necessity of adhering
to forms, in the farcical solemnity of borough elections, is not to be dispensed with."

We must be brief with its representative and political history. "Out brief candle!" It has
sent members since the 23rd Edward I. Bribery and other irregularities against the sitting
members in procuring votes were proved in 1696: in 1708, Sir Charles Bloyce, one of the bailiffs
was returned, but upon a petition proving bribery, menaces, treating, &c. this was proved to
be "no return:" Sir Charles was declared not capable of being elected, "as being one of the
bailiffs; nor had the other bailiff alone any authority to make a return, the two bailiffs
making but one officer."[1] In 1722 another bribery petition was presented, but the affair
was made up, and the complaint withdrawn. After this display of venality, it is amusing to
read that the corporation consists of two bailiffs and twelve capital burgesses.[2]

    [1] The reader may often have noticed in county advertisements
    the two sheriffs designated as one officer. Thus, in the
    advertisement of the recent Middlesex election:--

      SIR CHAPMAN MARSHALL, }   Sheriff of Middlesex.
      SIR W.H. POLAND.      }

    [2] This reminds one of the admiration of the Lord Mayor in
    Richard III. by George the Second, so ill-timedly expressed by
    the King to Garrick, the stage king:--

        "Fine Lord Mayor! capital Lord Mayor! where you get such
        Lord Mayor?"

Mr. Oldfield described this borough fourteen years ago, as consisting of only forty-two houses,
and half a church, the other part having been demolished. Here were six if not eight parish
churches: namely, St. John's, (which was a rectory, and seems to have been swallowed up by
the sea about the year 1540;) St. Martin's, St. Nicholas's, and St. Peter's, which were likewise
rectories; and St. Leonard's and All Saints, which were impropriated. The register of Eye also
mentions the churches of St. Michael and St. Bartholomew, which were swallowed up by the sea
before the year 1331. The ocean here appears to have almost a corporation swallow. The walls,
which encompassed upwards of seven acres of land, had three gates. That to the eastward is
quite demolished; but the arches of the two gates to the westward continue pretty firm, and
are of curious workmanship, which nature has almost covered with ivy.

By aid of the excellent parliamentary anatomy, in the Spectator newspaper, we learn that DUNWICH,
according to the census of 1821, contained 200 persons.

The "patrons," or "prevailing influence," are Mr. M. Barne and Lord Huntingfield. The number
of votes is 18.

The members "returned" to the last parliament were F. Barne and the Earl of Brecknock, who
were also returned at the recent election.

       *       *       *       *       *

Old Sarum, Wilts, the second Borough, has been already fully illustrated in vol. x., No. 290,
of The Mirror. It fell, or was rather pulled down, in consequence of a squabble between the
civil and ecclesiastical authorities; and soon after 1217, the inhabitants removed the city,
by piecemeal, to another site, which they called New Sarum, now Salisbury. The site of the
old city was very recently a field of oats; and the remains of its cathedral, castle, &c.,
were heaps of rubbish, covered with unprofitable verdure. We may therefore say,

  Ubi seges, Sarum fuit.

Mr. Britton, in the Beauties of England and Wales, discourses diligently of its antiquarian
history, which we have glanced at in our tenth volume. It is in the parish of Stratford-under-the-Castle;
and under an old tree, near the church, is the spot where the members for Old Sarum are elected,
or rather deputed, to sit in parliament. The father of the great Earl of Chatham once resided
at an old family mansion in this parish; and the latter was first sent to parliament from the
borough of Old Sarum, in February, 1735; yet "the great Earl Chatham called these boroughs
the excrescences, the rotten part of the constitution, which must be amputated to save the
body from a mortification."--(Oldfield.)

Few particulars of its representative history are worth relating. The borough returned members
to Parliament 23rd Edward I., and then intermitted till 34th Edward III., since which time
it has constantly returned. By the return 1 Henry V. it appears that its representatives were
with those of other boroughs elected at the county court.

Old Sarum was the property of the late Lord Camelford, who sold it to the Earl of Caledon.
The suffrage is by burgage-tenure. The voters, seven, are nominated by the proprietor; but
(says Oldfield) actually only one.

The population of Old Sarum is included in the parish, and is not distinguished in its returns.

The proprietor is Lord Caledon; and the members in the last parliament were J.J. and J.D. Alexander,
who were again returned at the recent election.

The Cut is an accurate view of the old borough, with Salisbury Cathedral in the distance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bramber is here represented by the forlorn ruins of its Castle. It is in the hundred of Steyning,
rape of Bramber, Sussex, and is half a mile from Steyning. It sent members as early as the
two previous boroughs; it afterwards intermitted sending, and sometimes sent in conjunction
with Steyning, before the 7th Edward IV. There is much "tampering" in its representative records:
in 1700, one Mr. Samuel Shepherd was charged with these matters here, and in Wiltshire and
Hampshire, when he was ordered to the Tower of London; but a week afterwards, Mr. Shepherd
was declared to have absconded. In 1706, a Mr. Asgill, one of the Bramber members, was delivered
out of the Fleet by his parliamentary privilege, and the aid of the Sergeant-at-Arms and his
mace; but in the following month he was expelled the house for his writings.

The right of election is in resident burgage-holders; and the number of voters is stated to
be twenty. The place consists of a few miserable thatched cottages. The Duke of Norfolk is
lord of the manor. The cottages are one half of them the property of the Duke of Rutland, and
the other of Lord Calthorpe, who, since the year 1786, have each agreed to send one member.[3]

    [3] It is related, that in an election contest, in 1786, the
    tenant of one of the cottages had the integrity to reject £1,000
    for his vote.

The history of the Castle seen in the Cut merits note, especially as it is the only relic of
the former consequence of the place. It was the baronial castle of the honour of Bramber, which,
at the time of the Conqueror's survey, belonged to William de Braose, who possessed forty other
manors in this county. These were held by his descendants for several generations by the service
of the knights' fees; and they obtained permission to build themselves a castle here; but the
exact date of its erection is not known. Its ruins attest that it was once a strong and extensive
edifice. It appears to have completely covered the top of a rugged eminence, which commands
a fine view of the adjacent country and the sea, and to have been surrounded by a triple trench.
The population of Bramber is in the Returns of 1821--ninety-eight persons. The members in the
last parliament were the Honourable F.G. Calthorpe and John Irving; at the recent election,
the members returned were J. Irving and W.S. Dugdale.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such is an outline of the histories of the annexed three Boroughs. Two of them are sites of
great beauty; and we leave the reader to reflect on these pleasant features in association
with their rise, decline, and we opine, political extermination.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF THE COBBLER'S ARMS.

Charles V., in his intervals of relaxation, used to retire to Brussels. He was a prince curious
to know the sentiments of his meanest subjects, concerning himself and his administration;
he therefore often went out incog. and mixed in such companies and conversations as he thought
proper. One night his boot required immediate mending; he was directed to a cobbler not inclined
for work, who was in the height of his jollity among his acquaintance. The emperor acquainted
him with what he wanted, and offered a handsome remuneration for his trouble.

"What, friend," says the fellow, "do you know no better than to ask any of our craft to work
on St. Crispin? Was it Charles the Fifth himself, I'd not do a stitch for him now; but if you'll
come in and drink St. Crispin, do, and welcome--we are merry as the emperor can be."

The sovereign accepted his offer; but while he was contemplating on their rude pleasure, instead
of joining in it, the jovial host thus accosts him:

"What, I suppose you are some courtier politician or other, by that contemplative phiz!--nay,
by your long nose, you may be a bastard of the emperor's; but, be who or what you will, you're
heartily welcome. Drink about; here's Charles the Fifth's health."

"Then you love Charles the Fifth?" replied the emperor.

"Love him!" says the son of Crispin, "ay, ay, I love his long-noseship well enough; but I should
love him much more, would he but tax us a little less. But what the devil have we to do with
politics! Round with the glass, and merry be our hearts!"

After a short stay, the emperor took his leave, and thanked the cobbler for his hospitable
reception. "That," cried he, "you're welcome to; but I would not to day have dishonoured St.
Crispin to have worked for the emperor."

Charles, pleased with the honest good nature and humour of the fellow, sent for him next morning
to court. You may imagine his surprise, to see and hear that his late guest was his sovereign:
he was afraid his joke on his long nose would be punished with death. The emperor thanked him
for his hospitality, and, as a reward for it, bid him ask for what he most desired, and to
take the whole night to think of it. The next day he appeared, and requested that for the future
the cobblers of Flanders might bear for their arms a boot with the emperor's crown upon it.

That request was granted; and so moderate was his ambition, that the emperor bid him make another.
"If," says the cobbler, "I might have my utmost wish, command that for the future the company
of cobblers shall take place of the company of shoemakers."

It was accordingly so ordained by the emperor; and to this day there is to be seen a chapel
in Brussels adorned round with a boot and imperial crown, and in all processions the company
of cobblers take precedence of the company of shoemakers.

G.K.

       *       *       *       *       *

SINGULAR TENURE.

King John gave several lands, at Kepperton and Atterton, in Kent, to Solomon Attefeld, to be
held by this singular service--that as often as the king should be pleased to cross the sea,
the said Solomon, or his heirs, should be obliged to go with him, to hold his majesty's head,
if there should be occasion for it, "that is, if he should be sea-sick;" and it appears, by
the record in the Tower, that this same office of head-holding was actually performed in the
reign of Edward the First.

J.R.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

"AS BAD AS PLOUGHING WITH DOGS."

(To the Editor.)

Famed as your miscellany is for local and provincial terms, customs, and proverbs, I have often
wondered never to have met with therein this old comparative north country proverb--"As bad
as ploughing with dogs;" which evidently originated from the Farm-house; for when ploughmen
(through necessity) have a new or awkward horse taken into their team, by which they are hindered
and hampered, they frequently observe, "This is as bad as ploughing with dogs." This proverb
is in the country so common, that it is applied to anything difficult or abstruse: even at
a rubber at whist, I have heard the minor party execrate the business in these words, "It is
as bad as ploughing with dogs," give it up for lost, change chairs, cut for partners, and begin
a new game.

H.B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

CROESUS.--A DRAMATIC SKETCH.

(For the Mirror.)

Cyrus, Courtiers, and Officers of State. Croesus bound upon the funeral pile which is guarded
by Persian soldiers, several of them bearing lighted torches, which they are about to apply
to the pile.

  Croesus.--O, Solon, Solon, Solon.

  Cyrus.--Whom calls he on?

  Attendant.--Solon, the sage.

  Croesus.--How true thy words
  No man is happy till he knows his end.

  Cyrus.--Can Solon help thee?

  Croesus.--He hath taught me that
  Which it were well for kings to know.

  Cyrus.--Unbind him--we would hear it.

  Croesus.--The fame of Solon having spread o'er Greece,
  We sent for him to Sardis. Robed in purple,
  We and our court received him: costly gems
  Bedecked us--glittering in golden beds,
  We told him of our riches. He was moved not.
  We showed him our vast palace, hall, and chamber,
  Cellar and attic not omitting--
  Statues and urns, and tapestry of gold,
  Carpets and furniture, and Grecian paintings,
  Diamonds and sapphires, rubies, emeralds,
  And pearls, that would have dazzled eagles' sight.
  Lastly, our treasury!--we showed him Lydia's wealth!
  And then exulting, asked him, whom of all men
  That in the course of his long travels he had seen
  He thought most happy?--He replied,
  "One Tellus, an Athenian citizen,
  Of little fortune, and of less ambition,
  Who lived in ignorance of penury,
  And ever saw his country flourish;
  His children were esteemed--he lived to see
  His children's children--then he fell in battle,
  A patriot, a hero, and a martyr!"
  Whom next?--I asked, "Two Argive brothers,
  Whose pious pattern of fraternal love
  And filial duty and affection,
  Is worthy of example and remembrance.
  Their mother was a priestess of the queen
  Of the supreme and mighty Jupiter!
  And she besought her goddess to send down
  The best of blessings on her duteous sons.
  Her prayers were heard--they slept and died!"
  Then you account me not among the happy?
    To which the sage gave answer--
  "King of Lydia! Our philosophy
  Is but ill suited to the courts of kings.
  We do not glory in our own prosperity,
  Nor yet admire the happiness of others.
  All bliss is brief and superficial,
  And should not be accounted as a good,
  But that which lasts unto our being's end.
  The life of man is threescore years and ten,
  Which being summed in the whole amount
  Unto some thousands of swift-winged days,
  Of which there are not two alike;
  So those which are to come, being unknown,
  Are but a series of accidents:
  Therefore esteem we no man happy,
  But him whose happiness continues to the end!
  We cannot win the prize until the contest's o'er!"

  Cyrus.--Solon hath saved one king
  And taught another! Torchmen, we reprieve
  The captive Croesus.

CYMBELINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAUL'S CROSS.

(For the Mirror.)

  "----Friers and faytours have fonden such questions
  To plese with the proud men, sith the pestilence time,[4]
  And preachen at St. Paul's, for pure envi fo clarkes,
  That praiers have no powre the pestilence to lette."

Piers Plowman's Visions.

    [4] The great plague in 1347.

The early celebrity of Paul's Cross, as the greatest seat of pulpit eloquence, is evinced in
the lines above quoted, which give us to understand that the most subtle and abstract questions
in theology were handled here by the Friars, in opposition to the secular clergy, almost at
the first settlement of that popular order of preachers in England.

Of the custom of preaching at crosses it is difficult to trace the origin; it was doubtless
far more remote than the period alluded to, and Pennant thinks, at first accidental. The sanctity
of this species of pillar, he observes, often caused a considerable resort of people to pay
their devotion to the great object of their erection. A preacher, seeing a large concourse
might be seized by a sudden impulse, ascend the steps, and deliver out his pious advice from
a station so fit to inspire attention, and so conveniently formed for the purpose. The example
might be followed till the practice became established by custom.

The famous Paul's Cross, like many others in various parts of the kingdom (afterwards converted
to the same purpose,) was doubtless at first a mere common cross, and might be coeval with
the Church. When it was covered and used as a pulpit cross, we are not informed. Stowe describes
it in his time, "as a pulpit-crosse of timber, mounted upon steppes of stone, and covered with
leade, standing in the church-yard, the very antiquitie whereof was to him unknowne." We hear
of its being in use as early as the year 1259, when Henry III., in person commanded the mayor
to swear before him every stripling of twelve years old and upwards, to be true to him and
his heirs. Here in 1299, Ralph de Baldoc, dean of St. Paul's, cursed all those who had searched,
in the church, of St. Martin in the Fields, for a hoard of gold, &c. Before this cross in 1483,
was brought, divested of all her splendour, Jane Shore, the charitable, the merry concubine
of Edward IV., and, after his death, of his favourite, the unfortunate Lord Hastings. After
the loss of her protectors, she fell a victim to the malice of crook-backed Richard. He was
disappointed (by her excellent defence) of convicting her of witchcraft, and confederating
with her lover to destroy him. He then attacked her on the weak side of frailty. This was undeniable.
He consigned her to the severity of the church: she was carried to the bishop's palace, clothed
in a white sheet, with a taper in her hand, and from thence conducted to the cathedral, and
the cross, before which she made a confession of her only fault. Every other virtue bloomed
in this ill-fated fair with the fullest vigour. She could not resist the solicitations of a
youthful monarch, the handsomest man of his time. On his death she was reduced to necessity,
scorned by the world, and cast off by her husband, with whom she was paired in her childish
years, and forced to fling herself into the arms of Hastings. "In her penance she went," says
Holinshed "in countenance and pase demure, so womanlie, that, albeit she were out of all araie,
save her kirtle onlie, yet went she so faire and lovelie, namelie, while the woondering of
the people cast a comlie rud in hir cheeks, (of which she before had most misse) that hir great
shame won hir much praise among those that were more amorous of hir bodie than curious of hir
soule." She lived to a great age, but in great distress and miserable poverty; deserted even
by those to whom she had, during prosperity, done the most essential services.

From this time the Cross continually occurs in history. "It was used not only for the instruction
of mankind by the doctrine of the preacher, but for every purpose, political or ecclesiastical;
for giving force to oaths; for promulgating of laws, or rather the royal pleasure; for royal
contracts of marriage; for the emission of papal bulls; for anathematizing sinners; for benedictions;
for exposing of penitents under the censure of the church; for recantations; for the private
ends of the ambitious; and for the defaming of those who had incurred the displeasure of crowned
heads."

Bishop King preached the last sermon here, of any note, before James I., and his court on Midlent
Sunday, 1620. The object of the sermon was the repairing of the cathedral; and the ceremony
was conducted with so much magnificence, that the prelate exclaims, in a part of his sermon,--"But
will it almost be believed, that a King should come from his court to this crosse, where princes
seldom or never come, and that comming to bee in a state, with a kinde of sacred pompe and
procession, accompanied with all the faire flowers of his field, and the fairest rose (the
Queen) of his owne garden!" The cross was demolished by order of Parliament in 1643, executed
by the willing hands of Isaac Pennington, the fanatical Lord Mayor of that year, who died a
convicted regicide in the Tower. It stood at the north-east end of St. Paul's Churchyard; a
print of the cross, and likewise the shrouds, where the company sat in wet weather, may be
seen in Speed's Theatre of Great Britain.

J.R.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADA.

(For the Mirror.)

  She stood in the midst of that gorgeous throng,
  Her praise was the theme of every tongue;
  Warriors were there, whose glance of fire
  Spoke to their foes of vengeance dire,
  But they were enslaved by beauty's power,
  And knelt at her shrine in that moonlit bower.
  Sweet words were breathed in Ada's ear
  By many a noble cavalier;
  Maidens with fairy steps were there,
  Who seemed to float on the ambient air,
  But none in the mazy dance could move
  Like Ada, the queen of this bower of love!
  The moon in her silvery beauty shines
  On this joyous throng through the lofty pines;
  Lamps gleaming forth from every tree,
  All was splendour and revelry;
  Sweet perfumes were wafted by every breeze
  From the flowering shrubs and the orange trees,
  Mingling with sounds which were borne along
  From the lover's lute and the minstrel's song;
  Fair Ada's praise was the theme of all,
  She was the queen of this festival.

         *       *       *       *       *

  She left the crowd and wandered on--
  Where, oh where is the maiden gone?
  She hears no longer the minstrel's lay,
  The last sweet notes have died away,
  Like the low, faint sound of maiden's sigh.
  When the youth that she loves is standing by.

         *       *       *       *       *

  But where, oh where is Ada gone?
  She is kneeling in a dungeon lone;
  Her fillet of snowy pearls has now
  Fall'n from its throne on her whiter brow,
  And her fair, rich tresses, like floods of gold,
  Gleam on the floor so damp and cold.
  Her cheek is pale, but her eye of blue
  Now wears a bright and more glorious hue;
  It tells of a maiden's constancy,
  Of her faith in the hour of adversity;
  On a pallet of straw in that gloomy cell,
  Is a captive knight whom she loves so well,
  That she's left her joyous and splendid bower
  To dwell with him in his dying hour,
  To pillow his head on her breast of snow,
  To kiss the dew from his pallid brow;
  With smiles to chase the thoughts of gloom
  Which darken his way to an early tomb,
  To shed no tear, and to heave no sigh,
  Though her heart is breaking in agony.

M.A.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

PITCAIRN'S ISLAND.

The Quarterly Review (89) last published, is, indeed, a Reform Number; for all the papers,
save one, relate to some species of reform or improvement.--Thus, we have papers on Captain
Beechey's recent Voyage to co-operate with the Polar Expeditions--Population and Emigration--the
notable Conspiration de Babeuf--the West India Question--and last, though not least, "the Bill"
itself. We have endeavoured to adopt from the first paper, some particulars of a spot which
bears high interest for every lover of adventure; the reviewer's observations connecting the
extracts from Captain Beechey's large work.

His Majesty's Ship Blossom, Captain F.W. Beechey, sailed from England May 19, 1825, and having
looked in at the usual stopping places, Teneriffe and Rio de Janeiro, proceeded round the Horn,
and touched at Conception and Valparaiso, on the coast of Chili. In a few days the Blossom
reached the Easter Island, of Cook. Her next visit was to Pitcairn's Island, which the reviewer
thinks "the most interesting point in the whole voyage." We do not proceed in the outline,
but "look in" at "the Island." To this spot, as the public have for some years been aware,
the Mutineers of the Bounty carried that ship, after they had deprived Capt. Bligh of his command,
and turned him adrift in the middle of the Pacific Ocean.[5]

    [5] Who does not recollect the delightful narrative published
    some years since by Mr. Mariner, in his account of the Tonga
    Islands; the poem of "the Island," by Lord Byron; and countless
    dramatic representations of this unhappy affair. We remember an
    affecting version about seven years since at Sadler's Wells
    Theatre: and only a few weeks since a few of its incidents were
    embodied in a melo-dramatic piece called "Neuha's Cave, or the
    South Sea Mutineers," at Covent Garden Theatre.

In the end, only one white man, old Adams, remained alive of the mutineers who had landed.
Of these, only one died a natural death; another was killed by accident; six were murdered;
and but one remained to tell the tale.

After the greater number of the party had been murdered off, things went on pretty smoothly,
till one M'Coy, who had been employed in a distillery in Scotland, tried an experiment with
the tea-root, and succeeded in producing a bottle of ardent spirits. This induced one Quintal
to 'alter his kettle into a still,' and the natural consequence ensued. Like the philosopher
who destroyed himself with his own gunpowder, M'Coy, intoxicated to frenzy, threw himself from
a cliff and was killed; and Quintal having lost his wife by accident, demanded the lady of
one of his two remaining companions. This modest request being refused, he attempted to murder
his countrymen; but they, having discovered his intention, agreed, that as Quintal was no longer
a safe member of their community, the sooner he was put out of the way the better. Accordingly,
they split his skull with an axe.

Adams was thus left the only Englishman on Pitcairn's Island. Being thoroughly tired of mutiny,
bloodshed, and irreligion, and deeply sensible of the extent of his own guilt, he resolutely
set about the only sound course of repentance, by exhibiting an amended life, and by training
up in habits of virtue those helpless beings thrown upon his care for good or for evil.

He had an arduous task to perform. Besides the children to be educated, the Otaheitan women
were to be converted; and as the example of the parents had a powerful influence over their
children, he resolved to make them his first care. His labours succeeded; the Otaheitans were
naturally of a tractable disposition, and gave him less trouble than he anticipated. The children
also acquired such a thirst after scriptural knowledge, that Adams in a short time had little
else to do than to answer their interrogatories, and put them in the right way. As they grew
up, they acquired fixed habits of morality and piety; their colony improved, and intermarriages
occurred; and they now form a happy and well-regulated society, the merit of which, in a great
degree, belongs to Adams, and tends to redeem the errors of his former life.

The affection of these simple islanders for the venerable father of the colony is the best
proof of the success which has attended his instructions; and it is really astonishing to observe
how much has been accomplished by an illiterate seaman--strongly excited, indeed, and prompted
to persevere in his course by motives which never err. When it was seen by these poor people
that Adams did not immediately return from the Blossom (off the island), they took alarm, lest
he should be detained; and one of their party, a recent settler, and a sea-faring man, having
discovered the ship to be a vessel of war, their fears redoubled. When, at last, the old man
landed, his daughter, Hannah, hurried to the beach to kiss her father's cheek, with a fervency
demonstrative of the warmest affection.

It seems to have been a part of Adams's policy to make religious ceremonies an important part
of their daily business, not merely an occasional duty. In describing a dinner scene, after
stating that the knives and forks, though more abundant than he had expected to find in so
remote a part of the world, were scarcely enough according to civilized notions, he goes on thus--

    "The smoking pig, by a skilful dissection, was soon portioned to
    every guest, but no one ventured to put its excellent qualities
    to the test, until a lengthened Amen, pronounced by all the
    party, had succeeded an emphatic grace delivered by the village
    parson. 'Turn to' was then the signal for attack; and as it is
    convenient that all the party should finish their meal about the
    same time, in order that one grace might serve for all, each
    made the most of his time. In Pitcairn's Island it is not deemed
    proper to touch even a bit of bread without a grace before and
    after it; and a person is accused of inconsistency if he leaves
    off and begins again. So strict is their observance of this
    form, that we do not know of any instance in which it has been
    forgotten.

Our gallant officers were not a little disappointed to find that the ladies were excluded from
the table. Indeed the Pitcairn islanders appear to have adopted, though not in all its rigour,
the South Sea prejudice against allowing a woman to eat in the presence of her husband. In
some parts of the Archipelago this crime is punishable by death. The only thing like an argument
by which the men defended this custom was, that as the male was made first, he ought on all
occasions to be served first: a new reading of the saying "first come first served." The good-natured
woman-kind of Pitcairn's Island, however, seemed far from considering themselves neglected
or ill-used in this matter, for they remained behind the seats, flapping away the flies, and
chatting with their guests.--The couches prepared for the strangers consisted of palm-leaves,
covered with native cloth: the sheets were of the same material.

    "The whole arrangement was extremely comfortable, and highly
    inviting to repose, which the freshness of the apartment,
    rendered cool by a free circulation of air through its sides,
    enabled us to enjoy without any annoyance from heat or insects. In the morning also we were awoke by their morning
    hymn, and family devotion."

In speaking of the scenery of the island, Captain Beechey describes a
singular spot set apart for himself by the ringleader of the mutiny. An unfrequented and dangerous
    path leads from this place to a peak which commands a view of
    the western and southern coasts."

In the account given by Adams, it is stated that Christian was uniformly cheerful; but, as
he was a man of education, and by no means without feeling, we must suppose that this serene
aspect was the result of effort; and we can readily conceive the bitterness with which, on
retiring to this cave, like a hunted wild-beast, he gave way to the deep sense of shame and
unavailing remorse which must at all times have weighed on his mind.

The Pitcairn islanders are no great musicians, and sing all their songs to one air. Captain
Beechey, with a laudable desire to improve and enlarge their taste in this matter, begged one
of his officers, who played on the violin, to favour the natives with a tune; but though it
was well executed, the new melody appeared to be wasted on the audience. None of them, he says,
appeared to have the least ear for music.

One of the officers took considerable pains to teach them the 100th psalm, that they might
not chant all their psalms and hymns to the same air, but they did not evince the least aptitude
or desire to learn it.

These interesting people appear to be strongly possessed with the binding nature of a promise,
however remote the period in which it was made, or however indiscreet in itself. Of this we
have the following rather pathetic example:--

    "Wives upon Pitcairn's Island, it may be imagined, are very
    scarce, as the same restrictions with regard to relationship
    exist as in England. He, nevertheless, indulged a hope
    that she would one day relent; and to this end was unremitting
    in his endeavours to please her. They could not, however, be
    prevailed on to yield to our decision, and we left them
    unmarried."

It gives us particular pleasure to have it in our power to relieve the anxiety of our sentimental
friends, who cannot bear that a romance should end unhappily, by quoting the following passage
from a letter addressed from Pitcairn's Island to Captain Beechey, and dated the 19th March,
1830:--"George Adams is married to Polly Young, and has two sons."

The same communication, we are grieved to add, contains also this sentence:--"I am sorry to
inform you that John Adams is no more; he departed this life March 5th, 1829, aged 65, after
a short illness. His wife survived him but a few months."--His memory will not be so short-lived.

This letter is from Mr. John Buffet, who still continues to officiate as
clergyman of the colony. He describes the natives 'as being all
satisfied at present with their little island, which they do not wish to
leave;' which remark he thinks it right to make in consequence of his
having received a letter from Mr. Nott, missionary, saying that a ship
was coming to remove the inhabitants of Pitcairn's Island to Otaheite,
or some other of the Friendly Islands. For our parts we trust this will
not be attempted without much larger consideration than such a matter is
likely to have met with, in the of late grievously over-worked state of
our public offices--distracted as they have all been by incessant change
of hands, to say nothing of systems. Should the population increase, as
doubtless it will ere long, beyond the means of subsistence which so
small a spot affords, there will never be wanting opportunities for the
roving spirits among them, male and female, to emigrate to other parts
of the world; but we confess we should witness with great regret the
summary breaking up of so virtuous and happy a community. To hear of
these innocent creatures being transplanted per saltum into any of the
sinks of wickedness in New South Wales or Van Diemen's Land, would be
utterly horrible. It would not be much better than leaving 'Sweet
Auburn' for the hulks. No boat is allowed to quit the shore, nor
    any work whatever to be done, cooking excepted, for which
    preparation is made the preceding evening.

    'All which remains to be said of these excellent people is, that
    they appear to live together in perfect harmony and contentment;
    to be virtuous, religious, cheerful, and hospitable, beyond the
    limits of prudence; to be patterns of conjugal and parental
    affection; and to have very few vices. We remained with them
    many days, and their unreserved manners gave us the fullest
    opportunity of becoming acquainted with any faults they might
    have possessed.'

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTE GALLERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Religious works do not usually unbend so pleasantly as in the following, from the Christian's
Magazine:--

Joseph II. Emperor of Germany.--In one of those excursions which this emperor frequently took
incog. he proceeded to Trieste. On his arrival, he went into an inn, and asked if he could
be accommodated with a good room? He was told, that a German bishop had just engaged the last;
and that there were only two small rooms, without chimneys, unoccupied. He desired a supper
to be prepared. He was told there was nothing left but some eggs and vegetables, the bishop
and suite having engaged all the poultry. The emperor requested that the bishop might be asked
if he would allow a stranger to sup with him. The bishop refused, and the emperor supped with
one of the bishop's almoners, who was not admitted to his master's table. The emperor asked
him what they were going to do at Rome? "My lord," replied the almoner, "is going to solicit
a benefice of fifty thousand livres, before the emperor is informed of its being vacant." They
changed the conversation. The emperor wrote a letter to the chancellor of Rome, and another
to his ambassador there. He made the almoner promise to deliver both letters, agreeably to
their address, on his arrival in Rome. He kept his promise--the chancellor presented the patent
for the benefice to the astonished almoner!

       *       *       *       *       *

Character of Dr. Wilson, Bishop of Sodor and Man.--This eminent prelate was venerable in his
aspect, meek in his deportment, his face illuminated with benignity, and his heart glowing
with piety: like his divine master he went about doing good. With the pride and avarice of
prelacy he was totally unacquainted. His palace was a temple of charity. Hospitality stood
at his gate, and invited the stranger and beggar to a plenteous repast. The day he devoted
to benevolence, and the night to piety. His revenue was dedicated to the poor and needy; and,
not contented with relieving the wants, and mitigating the woes of mankind, he was solicitous,
by precept and example, to conduct his little flock to the kingdom of heaven. He died in the
ninety-second year of his age, justly revered and lamented by the whole island; while his grave
was watered with the tears of those whom his bounty had supported, his benignity had gladdened,
or his eloquent piety had turned into the paths of righteousness. Reader, admire the virtues
of this excellent man, but do not stop short at admiration--"Go thou and do likewise."

       *       *       *       *       *

Robert Grosthead, Bishop of Lincoln.--When a husbandman claimed kinship with this prelate,
and thereupon requested from him an office,--"Cousin," replied the bishop, "if your cart be
broken, I'll mend it; if your plough be old, I'll give you a new one; and even seed to sow
your land! but a husbandman I found you, and a husbandman I'll leave you!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Wheatley, Mayor of Coventry.--Bablake Hospital, in Coventry, was founded by Mr. Thomas Wheatley,
Mayor of Coventry, in 1566. It is an asylum for old men and boys, and owes its origin to the
following singular circumstance: Being engaged in the iron trade, Mr. Wheatley sent an agent
to Spain to purchase some barrels of steel gads. When the casks arrived and were examined,
they were found to contain cochineal and ingots of silver. After fruitless endeavours to rectify
the mistake, and restore this valuable treasure to its right owner, he bestowed the money it
produced, to which he added his own estate, on the building and endowment of this institution.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Robber converted into a Bishop.--Kirk Maughold, in the Isle of Man, although now a poor place,
is not destitute of ancient fame, arising from the following circumstance:--The captain of
a band of Irish robbers, repenting of his crimes, retired hither, and became eminent for his
piety, on which account he was chosen bishop of the island. There still remains, near the church
gate, a square pillar, inscribed with a testimony of his virtues and exploits. The church is
built on a lofty promontory, in the middle of a very large burial ground.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bonaparte and the Koran.--When Bonaparte was in Egypt, one of the principal Osmanlis was lavish
in praise of the Koran, in the general's presence, "It contains," said he, "every thing."--"Does
it contain the service of cannon?" asked Bonaparte, with a smile. The Turk paused for a moment.
"Certainly it does, general; for as it contains every thing, it must contain that."

       *       *       *       *       *

Queen Elizabeth's Prayer Book.--An obscure individual at Blackburn is said to be in possession
of the prayer-book presented by Henry VIII. to his daughter Elizabeth at her confirmation.
This antiquarian curiosity was (it is stated) stolen from its deposit at Hampstead Court about
the beginning of the last century, and the librarian dismissed for losing so valuable a volume.
It is enriched with notes or mottoes in manuscript, and is even conjectured to be the actual
token by which Essex might have saved his forfeit life, if it had been delivered to the queen.
The title-page represents a triumphal arch, and has these words in black letter: "C. Certeine,
Prayers and Godly Meditacyions very nedefull for every Christien." The imprint is: "Emprinted
at Marlboro, the yere of our Lord a Mcccccxxxviii, per me Joanis Philoparion." The volume is
in good preservation, bound in velvet, with the royal arms and roses emblazoned.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KING.

Authentic narrative of a plan, (now first made public,) for capturing Prince William Henry,
his present Majesty, during his stay at New York in 1782; with the original letters of General
Washington.

(From the Athenæum.)

It must be remembered that, wild as this project may seem, it was sanctioned by the cool deliberate
judgment of Washington; and it cannot, therefore, be doubted, that his Royal Highness was,
for a time, in a situation of great though unknown danger. We leave it to our readers to speculate
on the possible consequences, had the plan succeeded.

When his present Majesty William IV. served as a midshipman in the British navy, he was for
some time on the coast of the North American colonies, then in a state of revolution, and passed
the winter of 1782 in the city of New York. He is still borne in lively recollection by many
of the elder inhabitants of that city, as a fine bluff boy of sixteen: frank, cheery, and affable;
and there are anecdotes still told of his frolicsome pranks on shipboard. Among these, is the
story of a rough, though favourite, nautical joke, which he played off upon a sailor boy, in
cutting down his hammock while asleep. The sturdy sea urchin resented this invasion of his
repose; and, not knowing the quality of his invader, a regular set-to of fisty-cuffs ensued
in the dark. In this, it is said, the Prince showed great bottom; and equal generosity on the
following morning, when he made the boy a handsome present of money. His conduct in this boyish
affair is said to have gained him the hearts of all his shipmates.

The Prince manifested, when on shore, a decided fondness for manly pastimes. One of his favourite
resorts was a small fresh-water lake in the vicinity of the city, which presented a frozen
sheet of many acres; and was thronged by the younger part of the population for the amusement
of skating. As the Prince was unskilled in that exercise, he would sit in a chair fixed on
runners, which was pushed forward with great velocity by a skating attendant, while a crowd
of officers environed him, and the youthful multitude made the air ring with their shouts for
Prince William Henry. It was an animating scene, in the bright sunny winter-days, so common
in that climate, and probably still retains a place in his Majesty's memory.

While the Prince was thus enjoying himself in the city of New York, a daring plan was formed,
by some adventurous partisans of the revolutionary army, to pounce upon him and carry him off
from the very midst of his friends and guards. The deviser of this plan was Colonel Ogden,
a gallant officer, who had served with great bravery in the revolutionary army from the very
commencement of the war, and whose regiment at that time was stationed in the province (now
state) of New Jersey.

The present statement is drawn up from documents still preserved by the family of Col. Ogden,
a copy of which has been obtained from one of his sons. The Prince at the time was living on
shore, with Admiral Digby, in quarters slightly guarded, more for form than security, no particular
danger being apprehended. The project of Colonel Ogden was to land secretly on a stormy night,
with a small but resolute force, to surprise and carry off the Prince and the Admiral to the
boats, and to make for the Jersey shore. The plan was submitted to General Washington, who
sanctioned it, under the idea that the possession of the person of the Prince would facilitate
an adjustment of affairs with the mother country, and a recognition of the United States as
an independent nation.

The following is a copy of the letter of General Washington to Col. Ogden on the occasion.
The whole of the original is in the handwriting of the General:--

    To Col. Ogden of the 1st Jersey Regiment.

    "Sir,--The spirit of enterprise so conspicuous in your plan for
    surprising in their quarters, and bringing off, the Prince
    William Henry and Admiral Digby, merits applause; and you have
    my authority to make the attempt in any manner and at such a
    time as your judgment shall direct.

    "I am fully persuaded, that it is unnecessary to caution you
    against offering insult or indignity to the persons of the
    Prince or Admiral, should you be so fortunate as to capture
    them; but it may not be amiss to press the propriety of a proper
    line of conduct upon the party you command.

    "In case of success, you will, as soon as you get them to a
    place of safety, treat them with all possible respect; but you
    are to delay no time in conveying them to Congress, and report
    your proceedings, with a copy of these orders.

    "Given at Morris Town, this 28th day of March, 1782.

    "G. WASHINGTON.

    "Note.--Take care not to touch upon the ground which is agreed
    to be neutral--viz., from Raway to Newark, and four miles back."

Before relating the particulars of this plan, it may be expedient to state, that the city of
New York is situated on the point of an island which advances into the centre of a capacious
bay. A narrow arm of the sea, vulgarly called the East River, separates it on the left from
Long or Nassau Island; and the Hudson, commonly called the North River, separates it from the
state of New Jersey. The British army was in possession of the city, and was strengthened by
a fleet; but the opposite bank of the Hudson, which is about two miles wide, was under the
power of Congress, and the revolutionary army was stationed at no great distance in New Jersey,
in a winter encampment of wooden huts.

The party that should undertake this enterprise would have to embark in boats from the Jersey
shore: and it was essential that the whole affair should be accomplished between sun and sun.

The following is the plan intended to be observed, copied literally from the original, in the
handwriting of Col. Ogden:--

    "It will be necessary to have four whale-boats (which can be
    procured without cause for suspicion); they must be well manned
    by their respective crews, including guides, etc.; beside these,
    one captain, one subaltern, three sergeants, and thirty-six
    men, with whom the boats can row with ease.--N.B. It is known
    where the boats are, and that they can be collected without
    suspicion, with their oars-men; and it is taken for granted, the
    owners will not object, though, for fear of giving the least
    cause of alarm, nothing has as yet been said to them.

    "The time of embarkation must be the first wet night after we
    are prepared. The place is not yet agreed on, as it will be
    necessary to consult those skilled in the tides previous to
    determining, which must be put off until we are as nearly
    prepared as possible, for fear of inferences being drawn from
    our inquiries. We must, however, set off from such part of the
    Jersey shore, as will give us time to be in the city by half
    past nine. The men must be embarked in the order of debarkation.

    "The Prince quarters in Hanover Square, and has two sentinels
    from the 40th British regiment, that are quartered in Lord
    Stirling's old quarters in Broad Street, 200 yards from the
    scene of action. The main guard, consisting of a captain and
    forty men, is posted at the City Hall--a sergeant and twelve, at
    the head of the old slip--a sergeant and twelve, opposite the
    coffee-house--these are the troops we may be in danger from, and
    must be guarded against. The place of landing at Coenties
    Market, between the two sergeants' guards, at the head of the
    old slip and opposite the coffee-house.

    "The order of debarkation to agree with the mode of attack, as
    follows:--

    "First--Two men with a guide, seconded by two others, for the
    purpose of seizing the sentinels--these men to be armed with
    naked bayonets and dressed in sailors' habits--they are not to
    wait for anything, but immediately execute their orders.

    "Second--Eight men including guides with myself, preceded by two
    men with each a crow-bar, and two with each an axe, these for
    the purpose of forcing the doors should they be fast, and
    followed by four men, entering the house and seizing the young
    Prince, the Admiral, the young noblemen, aides, &c.

    "Third--A captain and eighteen to follow briskly, form, and
    defend the house until the business is finished, and retreat a
    half gun-shot in our rear.

    "Fourth--A subaltern and fourteen, with half of the remaining
    boats' crew, and form on the right and left of the boats, and
    defend them until we return--the remainder of the crews to hold
    the boats in the best possible position for embarking.

    "Necessary--Two crow-bars, two axes, four dark-lanterns, and
    four large oil-cloths.

    "The manner of returning as follows:--

    "Six men with guns and bayonets, with those unemployed in
    carrying off the prisoners, to precede those engaged in that
    business, followed by the captain (joined by the four men from
    the sentry) at a half gun-shot distance, who is to halt and give
    a front to the enemy, until the whole are embarked in the
    following order--

    "First--The prisoners, with those preceding them.

    "Second--The guides and boatmen.

    "Third--The subalterns and fourteen.

    "Fourth--The rear."

Such was the daring plan laid for the capture of the Prince, and which, even if not fully successful,
might have placed his Royal Highness in a most perilous predicament. It appears, however, from
a fragment of a letter addressed by General Washington to Col. Ogden, and apparently written
almost immediately after the preceding one, that some inkling of the design had reached Sir
Henry Clinton, then in New York, and Commander-in-chief of the British forces. General Washington
communicates, in his letter, the following paragraph from a secret despatch, dated March 23rd,
which he had just received from some emissary in New York:--

    "Great seem to be their apprehensions here. About a fortnight
    ago a great number of flat boats were discovered by a sentinel
    from the bank of the river (Hudson's), which are said to have
    been intended to fire the suburbs, and in the height of the
    conflagration to make a descent on the lower part of the city
    and wrest from our embraces His Excellency Sir H. Clinton,
    Prince William Henry, and several other illustrious personages,
    since which great precautions have been taken for the security
    of those gentlemen, by augmenting the guards, and to render
    their persons as little exposed as possible."

In another letter, dated Newburgh, April 2nd, 1782, General Washington observes, "After I wrote
to you from Morris Town, I received information that the sentries at the door of Sir Henry
Clinton were doubled at eight o'clock every night, from an apprehension of an attempt to surprise
him in them. If this be true, it is more than probable the same precaution extends to other
personages in the city of New York, a circumstance I thought it proper for you to be advertised
of."

This intelligence of the awakened vigilance and precautionary measures of the British commander,
effectually disconcerted the plans of Colonel Ogden, and His Royal Highness remained unmolested
in his quarters until the sailing of the squadron.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR

AND

LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MICHAEL SCOTT, THE WIZARD.

No. 22 of the Family Library is another volume of pleasant biography; for, to speak the truth,
the biographies, or biographetts of this series are the most agreeable reading of the day.
The Lives are not of undue length, and anecdote and judicious remark are abundantly scattered
along each of them. There are no dry details of "birth, parentage, and education;" but these
particulars are given with more attractions. In short, the Lives are just suited for parlour
and drawing-room libraries, and many a reader who could not be persuaded to turn to Dr. Chalmers's
lengthy two-and-thirty tomes of Biography, would be tempted to sit down and read a volume of
the Family Lives outright.

The volume before us is the first of "the Lives of Scottish Worthies," by Mr. Patrick Fraser
Tytler, author of an excellent History of Scotland. It comprises Alexander III., Michael Scott,
Sir William Wallace, and Robert Bruce. We quote from Scott, who, though a wizard, deserves
rank among "Worthies," and the philosophers and scholars of his time. Thus, Mr. Tytler says
"he was certainly the first who gave Aristotle in a Latin translation to the learned world
of the West. He was eminent as a mathematician and an astronomer, learned in the languages
of modern Europe--deeply skilled in Arabic, and in the sciences of the East; he had risen to
high celebrity as a physician--and his knowledge of courts and kings, had recommended him to
be employed in a diplomatic capacity by his own government." The following passage is, however,
from "his more popular and wider honour"--his superstitious character,--whilst, as Mr. Tytler
prettily observes, "his miracles and incantations are yet recorded beside the cottage fire,
by many a grey-headed crone, and his fearful name still banishes the roses from the cheeks
of the little audience that surround her."

In the brief but interesting accounts of this singular man, which we meet with in the ancient
Chronicles of Italy, it is mentioned that he was the inventer of a new species of casque or
steel basnet, denominated a cervilerium,[6] which he commonly wore under the furred or velvet
cap, used by the learned of those times. The origin of this invention is curious. In those
dark periods, when the belief of magic was universal, not only amongst the lower ranks, but
with the learned and educated classes of the community, it was reported that the Wizard, having
cast his own horoscope, had discovered that his death was to be occasioned by a stone falling
upon his bare skull. With that anxiety which clings to life, he endeavoured to defeat the demon
whom he served, and by repeated incantations constructed this magic casque, which he vainly
deemed invulnerable. But his fate, according to the tradition of Italy, was not to be avoided.
In passing a cathedral, when the bell was ringing for vespers, Michael entered to pay his devotions,
and forgetful of his cervilerium, which was fixed inside his cap, uncovered as he reverentially
knelt upon the stone floor. The moment of his fate was arrived. The rope of the belfry had
loosened one of the carved corbels which ornamented the interior of the roof beneath which
the Magician knelt; before he could remove, the sharp and heavy mass descended on his forehead,
and whilst it confirmed the infallibility of his prescience, in an instant deprived him of
life. Michael, however, according to the account of Benvenuto da Imola, had strength enough
to lift up the stone, and ascertain its weight, after which he declared it was of the exact
size he expected; and that nothing was left him but to die, which he did accordingly,[7] after
very properly making his will. It is needless to remark that this fable is confuted by the
return of Michael to his native country; but it appears to have been the origin of a tradition
still current amongst the peasantry of Scotland, and which ascribes a miraculous power to the
bonnet of the Wizard. It is curious to find the tale of the invulnerable cervilerium of the
Italians, travelling on the breath of credulity and superstition into the "far north countrie"
of which the Magician was a native, and only changed by tradition from the blue steel worked
and welded by magic art, into the blue bonnet which was waited on by Scottish demons, who were
heard wailing in mid air when it was waved by its dreaded master.

    [6] Riocobaldi Ferrariensis Historia Imperatorum--in Muratori,
    vol. ix. p. 128.

    [7] Benvenuto da Imola. Comment on Dante book xx. c. 115.

It is well known to the student of Italian literature, that the Magician has obtained a niche
in the Inferno of Dante.

  "Quel altro che ne fianchi e cosi poco
  Michele Scoto fu, che veramente
  Delle magiche frode seppe il gioco."

Another poet of Italy, but of infinitely inferior note, Theophilo Folengi, who published a
collection of Latin Macaronic verses, under the fictitious name of Merlinus Coccaius, has given,
in strange and almost unintelligible language, a singular picture of his incantations.

  "Behold renown'd Scotus take his stand
  Beneath a tree's deep shadow, and there draw
  His magic circle--in its orb describe
  Signs, cycles, characters of uncouth shapes;
  And with imperious voice his demons call.
  Four devils come--one from the golden west,
  Another from the east; another still
  Sails onwards from the south--and last of all
  Arrives the northern devil; by their aid
  He forms a wondrous bridle, which he fits
  Upon a jet black steed, whose back, nor clothes,
  Nor saddle, e'er encumber'd--Up he mounts,
  Cleaves the thin air like shaft from Turkish bow,
  Eyes with contemptuous gaze the fading earth,
  And caprioles amongst the painted clouds.
  Oft, too, with rites unhallow'd, from the neck
  Of his dark courser he will pluck the locks,
  And burn them as a sacrifice to Him
  Who gives him power o'er Nature: next he limns
  With silver wand upon the smooth firm beach
  A mimic ship--look out, where ocean's verge
  Meets the blue sky, a whitening speck is seen,
  That nears and nears--her canvass spreads to heav'n;
  Fair blows the wind, and roaring through the waves,
  On comes the Demon ship, in which he sails
  To farthest Ind--but this adventure needs
  A sacrifice more potent--human marrow
  Scoop'd from the spine, and burnt to the dark power
  Whom he must serve. 'Tis said that he who wears
  His magic cap, invisible may walk,
  And none so lynx-eyed as detect his presence,
  In the most peopled city--yet beware,
  Let him not, trusting to the demon's power,
  Cross the white splendour of the sun, for there,
  Although no palpable substance is discern'd,
  His shadow will betray him."

Such is a somewhat free translation of the verses of the pretended Merlinus Coccaius.[8] It
is well known that many traditions are still prevalent in Scotland concerning the extraordinary
powers of the Wizard; and if we consider the thick cloud of ignorance which overspread the
country at the period of his return from the continent, and the very small materials which
are required by superstition as a groundwork for her dark and mysterious stories, we shall
not wonder at the result. The Arabic books which he brought along with him, the apparatus of
his laboratory, his mathematical and astronomical instruments, the Oriental costume generally
worn by the astrologers of the times, and the appearance of the white-haired and venerable
sage, as he sat on the roof of his tower of Balwearie, observing the face of the heavens, and
conversing with the stars, were all amply sufficient to impress the minds of the vulgar with
awe and terror. "Accordingly," says Sir Walter Scott, in his Notes on the Lay of the Last Minstrel,
"the memory of Sir Michael Scott survives in many a legend, and in the south of Scotland any
work of great labour and antiquity is ascribed either to the agency of Auld Michael, of Sir
William Wallace, or of the devil." Some of the most current of these traditions are so happily
described by the above-mentioned writer, that we cannot refrain from quoting the passage. "Michael
was chosen," it is said, "to go upon an embassy to obtain from the King of France satisfaction
for certain piracies committed by his subjects upon those of Scotland. Instead of preparing
a new equipage and splendid retinue, the ambassador retreated to his study, and evoked a fiend,
in the shape of a huge black horse, mounted upon his back, and forced him to fly through the
air towards France. As they crossed the sea, the devil insidiously asked his rider what it
was that the old women of Scotland muttered at bedtime. A less experienced wizard might have
answered, that it was the Pater Noster, which would have licensed the devil to precipitate
him from his back. But Michael sternly replied, 'What is that to thee? Mount, Diabolus, and
fly!' When he arrived at Paris, he tied his horse to the gate of the palace, entered, and boldly
delivered his message. An ambassador with so little of the pomp and circumstance of diplomacy,
was not received with much respect, and the king was about to return a contemptuous refusal
to his demand, when Michael besought him to suspend his resolution till he had seen his horse
stamp three times. Another time, it is said, when residing at the tower of Oakwood, upon the
Ettrick, about three miles above Selkirk, he heard of the fame of a sorceress, called the witch
of Falsehope, on the opposite side of the river. Michael went one morning to put her skill
to the test, but was disappointed, by her denying positively any knowledge of the necromantic
art. In his discourse with her, he laid his wand inadvertently on the table, which the hag
observing, suddenly snatched it up, and struck him with it. Feeling the force of the charm,
he rushed out of the house; but as it had conferred on him the external appearance of a hare,
his servant, who waited without, halloo'd upon the discomfited Wizard his own hounds, and pursued
him so close, that in order to obtain a moment's breathing to reverse the charm, Michael, after
a very fatiguing course, was fain to take refuge in his own jaw-hole, Anglice, common sewer.
In order to revenge himself of the witch of Falsehope, Michael, one morning in the ensuing
harvest, went to the hill above the house with his dogs, and sent down his servant to ask a
bit of bread from the goodwife for his greyhounds, with instructions what to do if he met with
a denial.

    [8] Merlini Coccaii Macaronica, xviii, p. 273.

Immediately the good old woman, instead of pursuing her domestic occupation, which was baking
bread for the reapers, began to dance round the fire, repeating the rhyme, and continued this
exercise, till her husband sent the reapers to the house, one after another, to see what had
delayed their provision, but the charm caught each as they entered, and, losing all idea of
returning, they joined in the dance and the chorus. At length the old man himself went to the
house, but as his wife's frolic with Mr. Michael, whom he had seen on the hill, made him a
little cautious, he contented himself with looking in at the window, and saw the reapers at
their involuntary exercise, dragging his wife, now completely exhausted, sometimes round, and
sometimes through the fire, which was, as usual, in the midst of the house. Instead of entering,
he saddled a horse, and rode up the hill, to humble himself before Michael, and beg a cessation
of the spell, which the good-natured warlock immediately granted, directing him to enter the
house backwards, and with his left hand take the spell from above the door, which accordingly
ended the supernatural dance. * * * Michael Scott," continues the same author, "once upon a
time was much embarrassed by a spirit, for whom he was under the necessity of finding constant
employment. He commanded him to build a cauld, or dam-head, across the Tweed at Kelso; it was
accomplished in one night, and still does honour to the infernal architect. Michael next ordered
that Eildon Hill, which was then a uniform cone, should be divided into three. Another night
was sufficient to part its summit into the three picturesque peaks which it now bears. At length
the enchanter conquered this indefatigable demon, by employing him in the hopeless and endless
task of making ropes out of the sea-sand."[9]

    [9] Notes to the lay of the Last Minstrel, p. 255.

The embellishments, six in number, are engraved in a pleasing style by W.H. Lizars. Two of
them,--a Norwegian Barrow, and Turnberry Castle, are very effective.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

    A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Irish knight was married to the daughter of a noble lord, a connexion of which the knight
was somewhat proud. Boasting of this union once to a friend, he observed that his lordship
had paid him the highest compliment in his power. "He had seven daughters," said he, "and he
gave me the ouldest, and he told me, too, that if he had an oulder I should have her."

       *       *       *       *       *

A SHIRT WITHOUT A SEAM.

At Dumferline, in the corporation chest is preserved a man's shirt, wrought in the loom about
a century ago, by a weaver of the name of Inglis. The shirt was formed without a seam, and
finished without any assistance from the needle; the only necessary parts he could not accomplish
were the neck and sleeve buttons.

C.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the days of King Henry VII. when the king demanded the tenth penny for carrying on the war
in Britanny, and some of the courtiers in the House of Commons spoke of the king's want in
a very high tone, Sir John Fineux, an eminent lawyer at that time, made use of this expression,
"Mr. Speaker, before we pay anything, let us see whether we have anything we can call our own
to pay with;" for which saying, the king immediately made him a judge; in which office he acted
with as much integrity as in that of a representative in the Commons.

