THE ORIGINS OF CONTEMPORARY FRANCE, VOLUME 3

THE FRENCH REVOLUTION, VOLUME 2

by Hippolyte A. Taine

     Transcriber's Note: The numbering of Volumes, Books,
     Chapters and Sections are as in the French not the
     American edition. Annotations by the transcriber
     are initialled SR.

     Svend Rom, April 2000.

THE REVOLUTION. Volume II. THE JACOBIN CONQUEST.

THE FRENCH REVOLUTION VOLUME II.

     BOOK FIRST. THE JACOBINS.
     CHAPTER I. The Establishment of the new political organ. 6
     I. The Revolutionary Party.
     II. The Jacobins.
     III. Jacobin Mentality.
     IV. What the Theory Promises.

     CHAPTER II. The Party.
     I. Formation of the Party
     II. Jacobin and other Associations
     III. The Press.
     IV. The Clubs.
     V. Jacobin Power.

     BOOK SECOND. THE FIRST STAGE OF THE CONQUEST.
     CHAPTER I. The Jacobins in Power.
     I. Manipulating the Vote.
     II. Danger of holding Public Office.
     III. Pursuit of the Opponents.
     IV. Turmoil.
     V. Tactics of Intimidation.

     CHAPTER II. The Legislative Assembly.
     I. New Incompetent Assembly.
     II. Jacobin Intelligence and Culture.
     III. Their Sessions.
     IV. The political Parties.
     V. Means and Ways.
     VI. Political Tactics.
     CHAPTER III. Policy of the Assembly.
     I. Lawlessness.
     II. Revolutionary Laws.
     III. War.
     IV. Dictatorship of the Proletariat.
     V. Citoyens! Aux Armes!!
     CHAPTER IV. The Departments.
     I. Provence in 1792.
     II. The expedition to Aix.
     III. Marseilles against Arles.
     IV. The Jacobins of Avignon.
     V. The Class Struggle.
     CHAPTER V. PARIS.
     I. Weakening of the King.
     II. The Armed Revolutionaries.
     III. Jacobin Rabble-rousers.
     IV. The King in front of the people.
     CHAPTER VI. The Birth of the Terrible Paris Commune.
     I. The Plan of the Girondists.
     II. Girondists Foiled.
     III. Preparations for the Coup.
     IV. The Commune in Action.
     V. Purging the Assembly.
     VI. Take-over.
     VII. The King's Submission.
     VIII. Paris and its Jacobin leaders.

     BOOK THIRD. THE SECOND STAGE OF THE CONQUEST.
     CHAPTER I. Mob rule in times of anarchy.
     I. Brigands.
     II. Homicidal Part of Revolutionary Creed.
     III. Terror is their Salvation.
     IV. Carnage.
     V. Abasement and Stupor.
     VI. Jacobin Massacre.
     CHAPTER II. THE DEPARTMENTS.
     I. The Sovereignty of the People..
     II. Robbers and Victims.
     III. Local Dictature.
     IV. Jacobin Violence, Rape and Pillage.
     V. The Roving Gangs.
     VI. The Programme of the Party.
     CHAPTER III. The New Sovereigns..
     I. Sharing the Spoils.
     II. Doctoring the Elections
     III Electoral Control..
     IV: The New Republican Assembly.
     V. The Jacobins forming alone the Sovereign People.
     VI. Composition of the Jacobin Party.
     VII. The Jacobin Chieftains.
     CHAPTER IV. TAKEN HOSTAGE.
     I. Jacobin tactics and power.
     II. Jacobin characters and minds.
     III. Physical fear and moral cowardice.
     IV. Jacobin victory over Girondist majority.
     V. Jacobin violence against the people.
     VI. Jacobin tactics.
     VII. The central Jacobin committee in power.
     VIII. Right or Wrong, my Country.

H. A. Taine, Paris 1881.

*****

BOOK FIRST. THE JACOBINS.

CHAPTER I. THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NEW POLITICAL ORGAN.

In this disorganized society, in which the passions of the people are the sole real force,
authority belongs to the party that understands how to flatter and take advantage of these.
As the legal government can neither repress nor gratify them, an illegal government arises
which sanctions, excites, and directs these passions. While the former totters and falls to
pieces, the latter grows stronger and improves its organization, until, becoming legal in its
turn, it takes the other's place.

I.--Principle of the revolutionary party.

     Its applications.

As a justification of these popular outbreaks and assaults, we discover at the outset a theory,
which is neither improvised, added to, nor superficial, but now firmly fixed in the public
mind. It has for a long time been nourished by philosophical discussions. It is a sort of enduring,
long-lived root out of which the new constitutional tree has arisen. It is the dogma of popular
sovereignty.--Literally interpreted, it means that the government is merely an inferior clerk
or servant.[1101] We, the people, have established the government; and ever since, as well
as before its organization, we are its masters. Between it and us no infinite or long lasting
"contract". "None which cannot be done away with by mutual consent or through the unfaithfulness
of one of the two parties." Whatever it may be, or provide for, we are nowise bound by it;
it depends wholly on us. We remain free to "modify, restrict, and resume as we please the power
of which we have made it the depository." Through a primordial and inalienable title deed the
commonwealth belongs to us and to us only. If we put this into the hands of the government
it is as when kings delegate authority for the time being to a minister He is always tempted
to abuse; it is our business to watch him, warn him, check him, curb him, and, if necessary,
displace him. We must especially guard ourselves against the craft and maneuvers by which,
under the pretext of preserving law and order, he would tie our hands. A law, superior to any
he can make, forbids him to interfere with our sovereignty; and he does interfere with it when
he undertakes to forestall, obstruct, or impede its exercise. The Assembly, even the Constituent,
usurps when it treats the people like a lazybones (roi fainéant), when it subjects them to
laws, which they have not ratified, and when it deprives them of action except through their
representatives.[1102] The people themselves must act directly, must assemble together and
deliberate on public affairs. They must control and censure the acts of those they elect; they
must influence these with their resolutions, correct their mistakes with their good sense,
atone for their weakness by their energy, stand at the helm alongside of them, and even employ
force and throw them overboard, so that the ship may be saved, which, in their hands, is drifting
on a rock.[1103] Such, in fact, is the doctrine of the popular party. This doctrine is carried
into effect July 14 and October 5 and 6, 1789. Loustalot, Camille Desmoulins, Fréron, Danton,
Marat, Pétion, Robespierre proclaim it untiringly in the political clubs, in the newspapers,
and in the assembly. The government, according to them, whether local or central, trespasses
everywhere. Why, after having overthrown one despotism, should we install another? We are freed
from the yoke of a privileged aristocracy, but we still suffer from "the aristocracy of our
representatives."[1104] Already at Paris, "the population is nothing, while the municipality
is everything". It encroaches on our imprescriptible rights in refusing to let a district revoke
at will the five members elected to represent it at the Hôtel-de-Ville, in passing ordinances
without obtaining the approval of voters, in preventing citizens from assembling where they
please, in interrupting the out-door meetings of the clubs in the Palais Royal where "Patriots
are driven away be the patrol." Mayor Bailly, "who keeps liveried servants, who gives himself
a salary of 110,000 livres," who distributes captains' commissions, who forces peddlers to
wear metallic badges, and who compels newspapers to have signatures to their articles is not
only a tyrant, but a crook, thief and "guilty of lése-nation."--Worse are the abuses of the
National Assembly. To swear fidelity to the constitution, as this body has just done, to impose
its work on us, forcing us to take a similar oath, disregarding our superior rights to veto
or ratify their decisions,[1105] is to "slight and scorn our sovereignty". By substituting
the will of 1200 individuals for that of the people, "our representatives have failed to treat
us with respect." This is not the first time, and it is not to be the last. Often do they exceed
their mandate, they disarm, mutilate, and gag their legitimate sovereign and they pass decrees
against the people in the people's name. Such is their martial law, specially devised for "suppressing
the uprising of citizens", that is to say, the only means left to us against conspirators,
monopolists, and traitors. Such a decree against publishing any kind of joint placard or petition,
is a decree "null and void," and "constitutes a most flagrant attack on the nation's rights."[1106]
Especially is the electoral law one of these, a law which, requiring a small qualification
tax for electors and a larger one for those who are eligible, "consecrates the aristocracy
of wealth." The poor, who are excluded by the decree, must regard it as invalid; register themselves
as they please and vote without scruple, because natural law has precedence over written law.
It would simply be "fair reprisal" if, at the end of the session, the millions of citizens
lately deprived of their vote unjustly, should seize the usurping majority by the threat and
tell them:

"You cut us off from society in your chamber, because you are the strongest there; we, in our
turn, cut you off from the living society, because we are strongest in the street. You have
killed us civilly--we kill you physically."

Accordingly, from this point of view, all riots are legitimate. Robespierre from the rostrum[1107]
excuses jacqueries, refuses to call castle-burners brigands, and justifies the insurgents of
Soissons, Nancy, Avignon, and the colonies. Desmoulins, alluding to two men hung at Douai,
states that it was done by the people and soldiers combined, and declares that: "Henceforth,--I
have no hesitation in saying it--they have legitimated the insurrection;" they were guilty,
and it was well to hang them.[1108] Not only do the party leaders excuse assassinations, but
they provoke them. Desmoulins, "attorney-general of the Lantern, insists on each of the 83
departments being threatened with at least one lamppost hanging." (This sobriquet is bestowed
on Desmoulins on account of his advocacy of street executions, the victims of revolutionary
passions being often hung at the nearest lanterne, or street lamp, at that time in Paris suspended
across the street by ropes or chains.--(Tr.)) Meanwhile Marat, in the name of principle, constantly
sounds the alarm in his journal:

"When public safety is in peril, the people must take power out of the hands of those whom
it is entrusted... Put that Austrian woman and her brother-in-law in prison... Seize the ministers
and their clerks and put them in irons... Make sure of the mayor and his lieutenants; keep
the general in sight, and arrests his staff... The heir to the throne has no rights to a dinner
while you want bread. Organize bodies of armed men. March to the National Assembly and demand
food at once, supplied to you out of the national stocks... Demand that the nation's poor have
a future secured to them out of the national contribution. If you are refused join the army,
take the land, as well as gold which the rascals who want to force you to come to terms by
hunger have buried and share it amongst you. Off with the heads of the ministers and their
underlings, for now is the time; that of Lafayette and of every rascal on his staff, and of
every unpatriotic battalion officer, including Bailly and those municipal reactionaries--all
the traitors in the National Assembly!"

Marat, indeed, still passes for a furious ranter among people of some intelligence. But for
all that, this is the sum and substance of his theory: It installs in the political establishment,
over the heads of delegated, regular, and legal powers an anonymous, imbecile, and terrific
power whose decisions are absolute, whose projects are constantly adopted, and whose intervention
is sanguinary. This power is that of the crowd, of a ferocious, suspicious sultan, who, appointing
his viziers, keeps his hands free to direct them and his scimitar ready sharpened to cut of
their heads.

II.--The Jacobins.

     Formation of the Jacobins.--The common human elements of his
     character.--Conceit and dogmatism are sensitive and
     rebellious in every community.--How kept down in all
     well-founded societies.--Their development in the new order
     of things.--Effect of milieu on imagination and
     ambitions.--The stimulants of Utopianism, abuses of speech, and
     derangement of ideas.--Changes in office; interests playing
     upon and perverted feeling.

That a speculator in his closet should have concocted such a theory is comprehensible; paper
will take all that is put upon it, while abstract beings, the hollow simulacra and philosophic
puppets he concocts, are adapted to every sort of combination.--That a lunatic in his cell
should adopt and preach this theory is also comprehensible; he is beset with phantoms and lives
outside the actual world, and, moreover in this ever-agitated democracy he is the eternal informer
and instigator of every riot and murder that takes place; he it is who under the name of "the
people's friend" becomes the arbiter of lives and the veritable sovereign.--That a people borne
down with taxes, wretched and starving, indoctrinated by public speakers and sophists, should
have welcomed this theory and acted under it is again comprehensible; necessity knows no law,
and where the is oppression, that doctrine is true which serves to throw oppression off.

But that public men, legislators and statesmen, with, at last, ministers and heads of the government,
should have made this theory their own;

* that they should have more fondly clung to it as it became more destructive;

* that, daily for three years they should have seen social order crumbling away piecemeal under
its blows and not have recognized it as the instrument of such vast ruin;

* that, in the light of the most disastrous experience, instead of regarding it as a curse
they should have glorified it as a boon;

* that many of them--an entire party; almost all of the Assembly--should have venerated it
as a religious dogma and carried it to extremes with enthusiasm and rigor of faith;

* that, driven by it into a narrow strait, ever getting narrower and narrower, they should
have continued to crush each other at every step;

* that, finally, on reaching the visionary temple of their so-called liberty, they should have
found themselves in a slaughter-house, and, within its precincts, should have become in turn
butcher and brute;

* that, through their maxims of a universal and perfect liberty they should have inaugurated
a despotism worthy of Dahomey, a tribunal like that of the Inquisition, and raised human hecatombs
like those of ancient Mexico;

* that amidst their prisons and scaffolds they should persist in believing in the righteousness
of their cause, in their own humanity, in their virtue, and, on their fall, have regarded themselves
as martyrs--

is certainly strange. Such intellectual aberration, such excessive conceit are rarely encountered,
and a concurrence of circumstances, the like of which has never been seen in the world but
once, was necessary to produce it.[1108]

Extravagant conceit and dogmatism, however, are not rare in the human species. These two roots
of the Jacobin intellect exist in all countries, underground and indestructible. Everywhere
they are kept from sprouting by the established order of things; everywhere are they striving
to overturn old historic foundations, which press them down. Now, as in the past, students
live in garrets, bohemians in lodgings, physicians without patients and lawyers without clients
in lonely offices, so many Brissots, Dantons, Marats, Robespierres, and St. Justs in embryo;
only, for lack of air and sunshine, they never come to maturity. At twenty, on entering society,
a young man's judgment and pride are extremely sensitive.--Firstly, let his society be what
it will, it is for him a scandal to pure reason: for it was not organized by a legislative
philosopher in accordance with a sound principle, but is the work of one generation after another,
according to manifold and changing necessities. It is not a product of logic, but of history,
and the new-fledged thinker shrugs his shoulders as he looks up and sees what the ancient tenement
is, the foundations of which are arbitrary, its architecture confused, and its many repairs
plainly visible.--In the second place, whatever degree of perfection preceding institutions,
laws, and customs have reached, these have not received his approval; others, his predecessors,
have chosen for him, he is being subjected beforehand to moral, political, and social forms
which pleased them. Whether they please him or not is of no consequence. Like a horse trotting
along between the poles of a wagon in the harness that happens to have been put on his back,
he has to make best of it.--Besides, whatever its organization, as it is essentially a hierarchy,
he is nearly always subaltern in it, and must ever remain so, either soldier, corporal or sergeant.
Even under the most liberal system, that in which the highest grades are accessible to all,
for every five or six men who take the lead or command others, one hundred thousand must follow
or be commanded. This makes it vain to tell every conscript that he carriers a marshal's baton
in his sack, when, nine hundred and ninety-nine times out of a thousand, he discovers too late,
on rummaging his sack, that the baton is not there.--It is not surprising that he is tempted
to kick against social barriers within which, willing or not, he is enrolled, and which predestine
him to subordination. It is not surprising that on emerging from traditional influences he
should accept a theory, which subjects these arrangements to his judgment and gives him authority
over his superiors. And all the more because there is no doctrine more simple and better adapted
to his inexperience, it is the only one he can comprehend and manage off-hand. Hence it is
that young men on leaving college, especially those who have their way to make in the world,
are more or less Jacobin,--it is a disorder of growing up.[1109]--In well organized communities
this ailment is beneficial, and soon cured. The public establishment being substantial and
carefully guarded, malcontents soon discover that they have not enough strength to pull it
down, and that on contending with its guardians they gain nothing but blows. After some grumbling,
they too enter at one or the other of its doors, find a place for themselves, and enjoy its
advantages or become reconciled to their lot. Finally, either through imitation, or habit,
or calculation, they willingly form part of that garrison which, in protecting public interests,
protects their own private interests as well. Generally, after ten years have gone by, the
young man has obtained his rank in the file, where he advances step by step in his own compartment,
which he no longer thinks of tearing to pieces, and under the eye of a policeman who he no
longer thinks of condemning. He even sometimes thinks that policeman and compartment are useful
to him. Should he consider the millions of individuals who are trying to mount the social ladder,
each striving to get ahead of the other, it may dawn upon him that the worst of calamities
would be a lack of barriers and of guardians.

Here the worm-eaten barriers have cracked all at once, their easy-going, timid, incapable guardians
having allowed things to take their course. Society, accordingly, disintegrated and a pell-mell,
is turned into a turbulent, shouting crowd, each pushing and being pushed, all alike over-excited
and congratulating each other on having finally obtained elbow-room, and all demanding the
new barriers shall be as fragile and the new guardians as feeble, as defenseless, and as inert
as possible. This is what has been done. As a natural consequence, those who were foremost
in the rank have been relegated to the last; many have been struck down in the fray, while
in this permanent state of disorder, which goes under the name of lasting order, elegant footwear
continue to be stamped upon by hobnailed boots and wooden shoes.--The fanatic and the intemperate
egoists can now let themselves go. They are no longer subject to any ancient institutions,
nor any armed might which can restrain them. On the contrary, the new constitution, through
its theoretical declarations and the practical application of these, invites them to let themselves
go.--For, on the one hand, legally, it declares to be based upon pure reason, beginning with
a long string of abstract dogmas from which its positive prescriptions are assumed to be rigorously
deduced. As a consequence all laws are submitted to the shallow comments of reasoners and quibblers
who will both interpret and break them according to the principles.[1110]--On the other hand,
as a matter of fact, it hands over all government powers to the elections and confers on the
clubs the control of the authorities: which is to offer a premium to the presumption of the
ambitious who put themselves forward because they think themselves capable, and who defame
their rulers purposely to displace them.--Every government department, organization or administrative
system is like a hothouse which serves to favor some species of the human plant and wither
others. This one is the best one for the propagation and rapid increase of the coffee-house
politician, club haranguer, the stump-speaker, the street-rioter, the committee dictator--in
short, the revolutionary and the tyrant. In this political hothouse wild dreams and conceit
will assume monstrous proportions, and, in a few months, brains that are now only ardent become
hotheads.

Let us trace the effect of this excessive, unhealthy temperature on imaginations and ambitions.
The old tenement is down; the foundations of the new one are not yet laid; society has to be
made over again from top to bottom. All willing men are asked to come and help, and, as one
plain principle suffices in drawing a plan, the first comer may succeed. Henceforth political
fancies swarm in the district meetings, in the clubs, in the newspapers, in pamphlets, and
in every head-long, venturesome brain.

"There is not a merchant's clerk educated by reading the 'Nouvelle Héloise,'[1111] not a school
teacher that has translated ten pages of Livy, not an artist that has leafed through Rollin,
not an aesthete converted into journalists by committing to memory the riddles of the 'Contrat
Social,' who does not draft a constitution... As nothing is easier than to perfect a daydream,
all perturbed minds gather, and become excited, in this ideal realm. They start out with curiosity
and end up with enthusiasm. The man in the street rushes to the enterprise in the same manner
as a miser to a conjurer promising treasures, and, thus childishly attracted, each hopes to
find at once, what has never been seen under even the most liberal governments: perpetual perfection,
universal brotherhood, the power of acquiring what one lacks, and a life composed wholly of
enjoyment."

One of these pleasures, and a keen one, is to daydream. One soars in space. By means of eight
or ten ready-made sentences, found in the six-penny catechisms circulated by thousands in the
country and in the suburbs of the towns and cities,[1112] a village attorney, a customs clerk,
a theater attendant, a sergeant of a soldier's mess, becomes a legislator and philosopher.
He criticizes Malouet, Mirabeau, the Ministry, the King, the Assembly, the Church, foreign
Cabinets, France, and all Europe. Consequently, on these important subjects, which always seemed
forever forbidden to him, he offers resolutions, reads addresses, makes harangues, obtains
applause, and congratulates himself on having argued so well and with such big words. To hold
fort on questions that are not understood is now an occupation, a matter of pride and profit.

"More is uttered in one day," says an eye-witness,[1113] "in one section of Paris than in one
year in all the Swiss political assemblies put together. An Englishman would give six weeks
of study to what we dispose of in a quarter of an hour."

Everywhere, in the town halls, in popular meetings, in the sectional assemblies, in the wine
shops, on the public promenades, on street corners vanity erects a tribune of verbosity.

"Contemplate the incalculable activity of such a machine in a loquacious nation where the passion
for being something dominates all other affections, where vanity has more phases than there
are starts in the firmament, where reputations already cost no more than the trouble of insisting
on their being deserved, where society is divided between mediocrities and their trumpeters
who laud them as divinities; where so few people are content with their lot, where the corner
grocer is prouder of his epaulette than the Grand Condé of his Marshal's baton, where agitation
without object or resources is perpetual, where, from the floor-scrubber to the dramatist,
from the academician to the simpleton who gets muddled over the evening newspaper, from the
witty courtier down to his philosophic lackey, each one revises Montesquieu with the self-sufficiency
of a child which, because it is learning to read, deems itself wise; where self-esteem, in
disputation, caviling and sophistication, destroys all sensible conversation; where no one
utters a word, but to teach, never imagining that to learn one must keep quiet; where the triumphs
of a few lunatics entice every crackbrain from his den; where, with two nonsensical ideas put
together out of a book that is not understood, a man assumes to have principles; where swindlers
talk about morality, women of easy virtue about civism, and the most infamous of beings about
the dignity of the species; where the discharged valet of a grand seignior calls himself Brutus!"
--In reality, he is Brutus in his own eyes. Let the time come and he will be so in earnest,
especially against his late master; all he has to do is to give him a thrust with his pike.
Until he acts out the part he spouts it, and grows excited over his own tirades; his common
sense gives way to the bombastic jargon of the revolution and to declamation, which completes
the Utopian performance and eases his brain of its last modicum of ballast.

It is not merely ideas which the new regime has disturbed, but it has also disordered sentiments.
"Authority is transferred from the Château of Versailles and the courtier's antechamber, with
no intermediary or counterpoise, to the proletariat and its flatterers."[1114] The whole of
the staff of the old government is brusquely set aside, while a general election has brusquely
installed another in is place, offices not being given to capacity, seniority, and experience,
but to self-sufficiency, intrigue, and exaggeration. Not only are legal rights reduced to a
common level, but natural grades are transposed; the social ladder, overthrown, is set up again
bottom upwards; the first effect of the promised regeneration is "to substitute in the administration
of public affairs pettifoggers for magistrates, ordinary citizens for cabinet ministers, ex-commoners
for ex-nobles, rustics for soldiers, soldiers for captains, captains for generals, curés for
bishops, vicars for curés, monks for vicars, brokers for financiers, empiricists for administrators,
journalists for political economists, stump-orators for legislators, and the poor for the rich."--Every
species of covetousness is stimulated by this spectacle. The profusion of offices and the anticipation
of vacancies "has excited the thirst for command, stimulated self-esteem, and inflamed the
hopes of the most inept. A rude and grim presumption renders the fool and the ignoramus unconscious
of their insignificance. They have deemed themselves capable of anything, because the law granted
public functions merely to capacity. There has appeared in front of one and all an ambitious
perspective; the soldier thinks only of displacing his captain, the captain of becoming general,
the clerk of supplanting the chief of his department, the new-fledged attorney of being admitted
to the high court, the curé of being ordained a bishop, the shallow scribbler of seating himself
on the legislative bench. Offices and professions vacated by the appointment of so many upstarts
afford in their turn a vast field for the ambition of the lower classes."--Thus, step by step,
owing to the reversal of social positions, is brought about a general intellectual fever.

"France is transformed into a gaming-table, where, alongside of the discontented citizen offering
his stakes, sits, bold, blustering, and with fermenting brain, the pretentious subaltern rattling
his dice-box... At the sight of a public official rising from nowhere, even the soul of a bootblack
will bound with emulation."--He has merely to push himself ahead and elbow his way to secure
a ticket "in this immense lottery of popular luck, of preferment without merit, of success
without talent, of apotheoses without virtues, of an infinity of places distributed by the
people wholesale, and enjoyed by the people in detail."--Political charlatans flock thither
from every quarters, those taking the lead who, being most in earnest, believe in the virtue
of their nostrum, and need power to impose its recipe on the community; all being saviors,
all places belong to them, and especially the highest. They lay siege to these conscientiously
and philanthropically; if necessary, they will take them by assault, hold them through force,
and, forcibly or otherwise, administer their cure-all to the human species.

III.--Psychology of the Jacobin.

     His intellectual method.--Tyranny of formulae and
     suppression of facts.--Mental balance disturbed.--Signs of
     this in the revolutionary language.--Scope and expression of
     the Jacobin intellect.--In what respect his method is
     mischievous.--How it is successful.--Illusions produced by
     it.

Such are our Jacobins, born out of social decomposition like mushrooms out of compost. Let
us consider their inner organization, for they have one as formerly the Puritans; we have only
to follow their dogma down to its depths, as with a sounding-line, to reach the psychological
stratum in which the normal balance of faculty and sentiment is overthrown.

When a statesman, who is not wholly unworthy of that great name, finds an abstract principle
in his way, as, for instance, that of popular sovereignty, he accepts it, if he accepts it
at all, according to his conception of its practical bearings. He begins, accordingly, by imagining
it applied and in operation. From personal recollections and such information as he can obtain,
he forms an idea of some village or town, some community of moderate size in the north, in
the south, or in the center of the country, for which he has to make laws. He then imagines
its inhabitants acting according to his principle, that is to say, voting, mounting guard,
levying taxes, and administering their own affairs. Familiar with ten or a dozen groups of
this sort, which he regards as examples, he concludes by analogy as to others and the rest
on the territory. Evidently it is a difficult and uncertain process; to be exact, or nearly
so, requires rare powers of observation and, at each step, a great deal of tact, for a nice
calculation has to be made on given quantities imperfectly ascertained and imperfectly noted![1115]
Any political leader who does this successfully, does it through the ripest experience associated
with genius. And even then he keeps his hand on the check-rein in pushing his innovation or
reform; he is almost always tentative; he applies his law only in part, gradually and provisionally;
he wishes to ascertain its effect; he is always ready to stay its operation, amend it, or modify
it, according to the good or ill results of experiment; the state of the human material he
has to deal with is never clear to his mind, even when superior, until after many and repeated
gropings.--Now the Jacobin pursues just the opposite course. His principle is an axiom of political
geometry, which always carries its own proof along with it; for, like the axioms of common
geometry, it is formed out of the combination of a few simple ideas, and its evidence imposes
itself at once on all minds capable of embracing in one conception the two terms of which it
is the aggregate expression. Man in general, the rights of Man, the social contract, liberty,
equality, reason, nature, the people, tyrants, are examples of these basic concepts: whether
precise or not, they fill the brain of the new sectarian. Often these terms are merely vague
and grandiose words, but that makes no difference; as soon as they meet in his brain an axiom
springs out of them that can be instantly and absolutely applied on every occasion and to excess.
Mankind as it is does not concern him. He does not observe them; he does not require to observe
them; with closed eyes he imposes a pattern of his own on the human substance manipulated by
him; the idea never enters his head of forming any previous conception of this complex, multiform,
swaying material--contemporary peasants, artisans, townspeople, curés and nobles, behind their
plows, in their homes, in their shops, in their parsonages, in their mansions, with their inveterate
beliefs, persistent inclinations, and powerful wills. Nothing of this enters into or lodges
in his mind; all its avenues are stopped by the abstract principle which flourishes there and
fills it completely. Should actual experience through the eye or ear plant some unwelcome truth
forcibly in his mind, it cannot subsist there; however noisy and relentless it may be, the
abstract principle drives it out;[1116] if need be it will distort and strangle it, considering
it a slanderer since it refutes a principle which is true and undeniable in itself. Obviously,
a mind of this kind is not sound; of the two faculties which should pull together harmoniously,
one is degenerated and the other overgrown; facts cannot turn the scale against the theory.
Charged on one side and empty on the other, the Jacobin mind turns violently over on that side
to which it leans, and such is its incurable infirmity.

Consider, indeed, the authentic monuments of Jacobin thought, the "Journal des Amis de la Constitution,"
the gazettes of Loustalot, Desmoulins, Brissot, Condorcet, Fréron and Marat, Robespierre's,
and St. Just's pamphlets and speeches, the debates in the Legislative Assembly and in the Convention,
the harangues, addresses and reports of the Girondins and Montagnards, in brief, the forty
volumes of extracts compiled by Buchez and Roux. Never has so much been said to so little purpose;
all the truth that is uttered is drowned in the monotony and inflation of empty verbiage and
vociferous bombast. One experience in this direction is sufficient.[1117] The historian who
resorts this mass of rubbish for accurate information finds none of any account; in vain will
he read kilometers of it: hardly will he there meet one fact, one instructive detail, one document
which brings before his eyes a distinct personality, which shows him the real sentiments of
a villager or of a gentleman, which vividly portrays the interior of a hôtel-de-ville, of a
soldier's barracks, of a municipal chamber, or the character of an insurrection. To define
fifteen or twenty types and situations which sum up the history of the period, we have been
and shall be obliged to seek them elsewhere--in the correspondence of local administrators,
in affidavits on criminal records, in confidential reports of the police,[1118] and in the
narratives of foreigners,[1119] who, prepared for it by a different education, look behind
words for things, and see France beyond the "Contrat Social." This teeming France, this grand
tragedy which twenty-six millions of players are performing on a stage of 26 000 square leagues,
is lost to the Jacobin. His literature, as well as his brain, contain only insubstantial generalizations
like those above cited, rolling out in a mere play of ideas, sometimes in concise terms when
the writer happens to be a professional reasoner like Condorcet, but most frequently in a tangled,
knotty style full of loose and disconnected meshes when the spokesman happens to be an improvised
politician or a philosophic tyro like the ordinary deputies of the Assembly and the speakers
of the clubs. It is a pedantic scholasticism set forth with fanatical rant. Its entire vocabulary
consists of about a hundred words, while all ideas are reduced to one, that of man in himself:
human units, all alike equal and independent, contracting together for the first time. This
is their concept of society. None could be briefer, for, to arrive at it, man had to be reduced
to a minimum. Never were political brains so willfully dried up. For it is the attempt to systematize
and to simplify which causes their impoverishment. In that respect they go by the methods of
their time and in the track of Jean-Jacques Rousseau: their outlook on life is the classic
view, which, already narrow in the late philosophers, has now become even more narrow and hardened.
The best representatives of the type are Condorcet,[1120] among the Girondins, and Robespierre,
among the Montagnards, both mere dogmatists and pure logicians, the latter the most remarkable
and with a perfection of intellectual sterility never surpassed.--Unquestionably, as far as
the formulation of durable laws is concerned, i.e. adapting the social machinery to personalities,
conditions, and circumstances; their mentality is certainly the most impotent and harmful.
It is organically short-sighted, and by interposing their principles between it and reality,
they shut off the horizon. Beyond their crowd and the club it distinguishes nothing, while
in the vagueness and confusion of the distance it erects the hollow idols of its own Utopia.--But
when power is to be seized by assault, and a dictatorship arbitrarily exercised, the mechanical
inflexibility of such a mind is useful rather than detrimental. It is not embarrassed or slowed
down, like that of a statesman, by the obligation to make inquiries, to respect precedents,
of looking into statistics, of calculating and tracing beforehand in different directions the
near and remote consequences of its work as this affects the interests, habits, and passions
of diverse classes. All this is now obsolete and superfluous: the Jacobin knows on the spot
the correct form of government and the good laws. For both construction as well as for destruction,
his rectilinear method is the quickest and most vigorous. For, if calm reflection is required
to get at what suits twenty-six millions of living Frenchmen, a mere glance suffices to understand
the desires of the abstract men of their theory. Indeed, according to the theory, men are all
shaped to one pattern, nothing being left to them but an elementary will; thus defined, the
philosophic robot demands liberty, equality and popular sovereignty, the maintenance of the
rights of man and adhesion to the "Contrat Social." That is enough: from now on the will of
the people is known, and known beforehand; a consultation among citizens previous to action
is not essential; there is no obligation to await their votes. In any events, a ratification
by the people is sure; and should this not be forthcoming it is owing to their ignorance, disdain
or malice, in which case their response deserves to be considered as null. The best thing to
do, consequently, through precaution and to protect the people from what is bad for them, is
to dictate to them what is good for them.--Here, the Jacobin might be sincere; for the men
in whose behalf he claims rights are not flesh-and-blood Frenchmen, as we see them in the streets
and in the fields, but men in general, as they ought to be on leaving the hands of Nature,
or after the teachings of Reason. As to the former, there is no need of being scrupulous because
they are infatuated with prejudices and their opinions are mere drivel; as for the latter,
it is just the opposite: full of respect for the vainglorious images of his own theory, of
ghosts produced by his own intellectual device, the Jacobin will always bow down to responses
that he himself has provided, for, the beings that he has created are more real in his eyes
than living ones and it is their suffrage on which he counts. Accordingly, viewing things in
the worst lights, he has nothing against him but the momentary antipathy of a purblind generation.
To offset this, he enjoys the approval of humanity, self-obtained; that of a posterity which
his acts have regenerated; that of men who, thanks to him, who are again become what they should
never have ceased to be. Hence, far from looking upon himself as an usurper or a tyrant, he
considers himself the natural mandatory of a veritable people, the authorized executor of the
common will. Marching along in the procession formed for him by this imaginary crowd, sustained
by millions of metaphysical wills created by himself in his own image, he has their unanimous
assent, and, like a chorus of triumphant shouts, he will fill the outward world with the inward
echo of his own voice.

IV.--What the theory promises.

     How it flatters wounded self-esteem.--The ruling passion of
     the Jacobin.--Apparent both in style and conduct.--He alone
     is virtuous in his own estimation, while his adversaries are
     vile.--They must accordingly be put out of the way.--
     Perfection of this character.--Common sense and moral sense
     both perverted.

When an ideology attracts people, it is less due to its sophistication than to the promises
it holds out. It appeals more to their desires than to their intelligence; for, if the heart
sometimes may be the dupe of the head, the latter is much more frequently the dupe of the former.
We do not accept a system because we deem it a true one, but because the truth we find in it
suits us. Political or religious fanaticism, any theological or philosophical channel in which
truth flows, always has its source in some ardent longing, some secret passion, some accumulation
of intense, painful desire to which a theory affords and outlet. In the Jacobin, as well as
in the Puritan, there is a fountain-head of this description. What feeds this source with the
Puritan is the anxieties of a disturbed conscience which, forming for itself some idea of perfect
justice, becomes rigid and multiplies the commandments it believes that God has promulgated;
on being constrained to disobey these it rebels, and, to impose them on others, it becomes
tyrannical even to despotism. The first effort of the Puritan, however, wholly internal, is
self-control; before becoming political he becomes moral. With the Jacobin, on the contrary,
the first precept is not moral, political; it is not his duties which he exaggerates but his
rights, while his doctrine, instead of being a prick to his conscience, flatters his pride.[1121]
However vast and insatiate human pride may be, now it is satisfied, for never before has it
had so much to feed upon.--In the program of the sect, do not look for the restricted prerogatives
growing out of self-respect which the proud-spirited man claims for himself, such as civil
rights accompanied by those liberties that serve as sentinels and guardians of these rights--security
for life and property, the stability of the law, the integrity of courts, equality of citizens
before the law and under taxation, the abolition of privileges and arbitrary proceedings, the
election of representatives and the administration of public funds. Summing it up, the precious
guarantees which render each citizen an inviolable sovereign on his limited domain, which protect
his person and property against all species of public or private oppression and exaction, which
maintain him calm and erect before competitors as well as adversaries, upright and respectful
in the presence of magistrates and in the presence of the government.

A Malouet, a Mounier, a Mallet du Pan, partisans of the English Constitution and Parliament,
may be content with such trifling gifts, but the Jacobin theory holds them all cheap, and,
if need be, will trample them in the dust. Independence and security for the private citizen
is not what it promises, not the right to vote every two years, not a moderate exercise of
influence, not an indirect, limited and intermittent control of the commonwealth, but political
dominion in the full and complete possession of France and the French people. There is no doubt
on this point. In Rousseau's own words, the "Contrat Social" prescribes "the complete alienation
to the community of each associate and all his rights," every individual surrendering himself
wholly, "just as he may actually be, he himself and all his powers of which his possessions
form a part," so that the state not only the recognized owner of property, but of minds and
bodies as well, may forcibly and legitimately impose on every member of it such education,
form of worship, religious faith, opinions and sympathies as it deems best.[1122] Now each
man, solely because he is a man, is by right a member of this despotic sovereignty. Whatever,
accordingly, my condition may be, my incompetence, my ignorance, my insignificance in the career
in which I have plodded along, I have full control over the fortunes, lives, and consciences
of twenty-six million French people, being accordingly Czar and Pope, according to my share
of authority.----But if I adhere strictly to this doctrine, I am yet more so than my quota
warrants. This royal prerogative with which I am endowed is only conferred on those who, like
myself, sign the Social Contract in full; others, merely because they reject some clause of
it, incur a forfeiture; no one must enjoy the advantages of a pact of which some of the conditions
are repudiated.--Even better, as this pact is based on natural right and is obligatory, he
who rejects it or withdraws from it, becomes by that act a miscreant, a public wrong-doer and
an enemy of the people. There were once crimes of royal lèse-majesty; now there are crimes
of popular lèse-majesty. Such crimes are committed when by deed, word, or thought, any portion
whatever of the more than royal authority belonging to the people is denied or contested. The
dogma through which popular sovereignty is proclaimed thus actually ends in a dictatorship
of the few, and a proscription of the many. Outside of the sect you are outside of the laws.
We, the five or six thousand Jacobins of Paris, are the legitimate monarch, the infallible
Pontiff, and woe betide the refractory and the lukewarm, all government agents, all private
persons, the clergy, the nobles, the rich, merchants, traders, the indifferent among all classes,
who, steadily opposing or yielding uncertain adhesion, dare to throw doubt on our unquestionable
right.

One by one these consequences are to come into light, and it is evident that, let the logical
machinery by which they unfold themselves be what it may, no ordinary person, unless of consummate
vanity, will fully adopt them. He must have an exalted opinion of himself to consider himself
sovereign otherwise than by his vote, to conduct public business with no more misgivings than
his private business, to directly and forcibly interfere with this, to set himself up, he and
his clique, as guides, censors and rulers of his government, to persuade himself that, with
his mediocre education and average intellect, with his few scraps of Latin and such information
as is obtained in reading-rooms, coffee-houses, and newspapers, with no other experience than
that of a club, or a municipal council, he could discourse wisely and well on the vast, complex
questions which superior men, specially devoted to them, hesitate to take up. At first this
presumption existed in him only in germ, and, in ordinary times, it would have remained, for
lack of nourishment, as dry-rot or creeping mold, But the heart knows not what strange seeds
it contains! Any of these, feeble and seemingly inoffensive, needs only air and sunshine to
become a noxious excrescence and a colossal plant. Whether third or fourth rate attorney, counselor,
surgeon, journalist, curé, artist, or author, the Jacobin is like the shepherd that has just
found, in one corner of his hut, a lot of old parchments which entitle him to the throne. What
a contrasts between the meanness of his calling and the importance with which the theory invests
him! With what rapture he accepts a dogma that raises him so high in his own estimation! Diligently
conning the Declaration of Rights, the Constitution, all the official documents that confer
on him such glorious prerogatives, charging his imagination with them, he immediately assumes
a tone befitting his new position.[1123]--Nothing surpasses the haughtiness and arrogance of
this tone. It declares itself at the outset in the harangues of the clubs and in the petitions
to the Constituent Assembly. Loustalot, Fréron, Danton, Marat, Robespierre, St. Just, always
employ dictatorial language, that of the sect, and which finally becomes the jargon of their
meanest valets. Courtesy or toleration, anything that denotes regard or respect for others,
find no place in their utterances nor in their acts; a swaggering, tyrannical conceit creates
for itself a language in its own image, and we see not only the foremost actors, but their
minor associates, enthroned on their grandiloquent platform. Each in his own eyes is Roman,
savior, hero, and great man.

"I stood in the tribune of the palace," writes Anarcharsis Clootz,[1124] "at the head of the
foreigners, acting as ambassador of the human species, while the ministers of the tyrants regarded
me with a jealous and disconcerted air."

A schoolmaster at Troyes, on the opening of the club in that town, advises the women "to teach
their children, as soon as they can utter a word, that they are free and have equal rights
with the mightiest potentates of the universe."[1125] Pétion's account of the journey in the
king's carriage, on the return from Varennes, must be read to see how far self-importance of
a pedant and the self-conceit of a lout can be carried.[1126] In their memoirs and even down
to their epitaphs, Barbaroux, Buzot, Pétion, Roland, and Madame Roland[1127] give themselves
certificates of virtue and, if we could take their word for it, they would pass for Plutarch's
model characters.--This infatuation, from the Girondins to the Montagnards, continues to grow.
St. Just, at the age of twenty-four, and merely a private individual, is already consumed with
suppressed ambition. Marat says:

"I believe that I have exhausted every combination of the human intellect in relation to morality,
philosophy and political science."

Robespierre, from the beginning to the end of the Revolution, is always, in his own eyes, Robespierre
the unique, the one pure man, the infallible and the impeccable; no man ever burnt to himself
the incense of his own praise so constantly and so directly.--At this level, conceit may drink
the theory to the bottom, however revolting the dregs and however fatal its poison even to
those defy its nausea for the sake of swallowing it. And, since it is virtue, no one may refuse
it without committing a crime. Thus construed, the theory divides Frenchmen into two groups:
one consisting of aristocrats, fanatics, egoists, the corrupt, bad citizens in short, and the
other patriots, philosophers, and the virtuous, that is to say, those belonging to the sect.[1128]
Thanks to this reduction, the vast moral and social world with which they deal finds its definition,
expression, and representation in a ready-made antithesis. The aim of the government is now
clear: the wicked must submit to the good, or, which is briefer, the wicked must be suppressed.
To this end let us employ confiscation, imprisonment, exile, drowning and the guillotine and
a large scale. All means are justifiable and meritorious against these traitors; now that the
Jacobin has canonized his slaughter, he slays through philanthropy.--Thus is the forming of
his personality completed like that of a theologian who becomes inquisitor. Extraordinary contrasts
are gathered to construct it:--a lunatic that is logical, and a monster that pretends to have
a conscience. Under the pressure of his faith and egotism, he has developed two deformities,
one of the head and the other of the heart; his common sense is gone, and his moral sense is
utterly perverted. In fixing his mind on abstract formulas, he is no longer able to see men
as they are. His self-admiration makes him consider his adversaries, and even his rivals, as
miscreants deserving of death. On this downhill road nothing stops him, for, in qualifying
things inversely to their true meaning, he has violated within himself the precious concepts
which brings us back to truth and justice. No light reaches eyes which regard blindness as
clear-sightedness; no remorse affects a soul which erects barbarism into patriotism, and which
sanctions murder with duty.

*****

[Footnote 1101: Cf. "The Ancient Régime," p. 242. Citations from the "Contrat Social."--Buchez
et Roux, "Histoire Parlementaire," XXVI. 96. Declaration of rights read by Robespierre in the
Jacobin club, April 21, 1793, and adopted by the club as its own. "The people is sovereign,
the government is its work and its property, and public functionaries are its clerks. The people
can displace its mandatories and change its government when it pleases."]

[Footnote 1102: Lenin, Stalin, Mao, Pol Pot, and other dictators that like that also organized
elections and saw themselves as being the people, speaking and acting on their behalf and therefore
entitled to do anything they pleased.(SR).]

[Footnote 1103: Rightly so, might Lenin have thought when he first read this text. Later, under
his and Stalin's leadership the Party, guided by the first secretary of its central committee,
aided by the secret police, should penetrate all affairs slowly extending their power or influence
to the entire world through their secret party members, mutually ensuring their promotion into
the highest posts, the party will eventually come to govern the world. (SR).]

[Footnote 1104: Buchez and Roux, III, 324.. (An article by Loustalot, Sept. 8, 1789). Ibid.
331 Motion of the District of Cordéliers, presided over by Danton.--Ibid 239.. Denunciation
of the municipality by Marat.--V., 128, Vi. 24-41 (March, 1790). The majority of the districts
demand the permanent authority of the districts, that is to say, of the sovereign political
assemblies]

[Footnote 1105: Buchez et Roux. IV. 458. Meeting of Feb. 24, 1790, an article by Loustalot.--III
202. Speech by Robespierre, meeting of Oct. 21, 1789. Ibid. 219. Resolution of the district
of St. Martin declaring that martial law shall not be enforced. Ibid. 222. Article by Loustalot.]

[Footnote 1106: Buchez et Roux, X. 124, an article by Marat.--X. 1-22, speech by Robespierre
at the meeting of May 9, 1791.-III. an article by Loustalot. III. 217, speech by Robespierre,
meeting of Oct.22, 1789. Ibid. 431, article by Loustalot and Desmoulins, Nov., 1789.--VI. 336,
articles by Loustalot and Marat, July, 1790.]

[Footnote 1107: Ernest Hamel, "Histoire de Robespierre", passim, (I.436). Robespierre proposed
to confer political rights on the blacks.--Buchez et Roux, IX. 264 (March, 1791).]

[Footnote 1108: Buchez et Roux, V. 146 (March, 1790); VI. 436 (July 26, 1790); VIII. 247 (Dec
1790); X. 224 (June, 1791).]

[Footnote 1109: Gustave Flaubert. "Tout notaire a rêvé des sultanes." (All barristers have
dreams of being sultans!) (Madame Bovary").--"Frédéric trouvait que le bonheur mérité par l'excellence
de son âme tardait à venir." (Frédéric found that the happiness he deserved due to his brilliancy
was a long time coming.) ("L'Education sentimentale.)]

[Footnote 1110: Such has also been the effect of similar declarations set forth in the Constitutions
of the United Nations, the European Community, as well as many individual nations. All that
was required for the international Communist movement was then to await the slow promotion
of the secret party members directed to seek a career inside the various legal administrations
for, one day, to see all superior courts staffed by their men. (SR).]

[Footnote 1111: Mallet du Pan, "Correspondance politique." 1796.]

[Footnote 1112: "Entretiens du Père Gérard," by Collot d'Herbois.--"Les Etrennes au Peuple,"
by Barrère.-"La Constitution française pour les habitants des campagnes," etc.--Later "L'Alphabet
des Sans-Culottes, le Nouveau Catéchisme républicain, les Commandements de la Patrie et de
la République (in verse), etc."]

[Footnote 1113: Mercure de France, an article by Mallet du Pan, April 7, 1792. (Summing up
of the year 1791.)]

[Footnote 1114: Mercure de France, see the numbers of Dec. 30, 1791, and April 7, 1792. (Note
the phrase, it is close to Marx statement in 1850 'that the class struggle necessarily leads
to the dictatorship of the proletariat.' SR.)]

[Footnote 1115: Fox, before deciding on any measure, consulted a Mr. H.--, one of the most
uninfluential, and even narrow-minded members of the House of Commons. Some astonishment being
expressed at this, he replied that he regarded Mr. H.---as a perfect type of the faculties
and prejudices of a country gentleman, and he used him as a thermometer. Napoleon likewise
stated that before framing an important law, he imagined to himself the impression it would
make on the mind of a burly peasant.]

[Footnote 1116: Just like the strong influence which the current fashionable principles and
buzz-words introduced by the media have over today's audiences. (SR).]

[Footnote 1117: Alas! This phenomenon should be repeated with the interminable speeches held
by Lenin, Stalin, Hitler, Castro, Mao and all the other inheritors of the Jacobin creed. (SR).]

[Footnote 1118: "Tableaux de la Révolution Française," by Schmidt (especially the reports by
Dutard), 3 vols.]

[Footnote 1119: "Correspondence of Gouverneur Morris,"--"Memoirs of Mallet du Pan," John Moore']

[Footnote 1120: See, in "Progrès de l'esprit humaine," the superiority awarded to the republican
constitution of 1793. (Book IX.) "The principles from which the constitution and laws of France
have been combined are purer, more exact, and deeper than those which governed the Americans:
they have more completely escaped the influence of every sort of prejudice, etc."]

[Footnote 1121: Camille Desmoulins, the enfant terrible of the Revolution, confesses this,
as well as other truths. After citing the Revolutions of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries,
"which derived their virtue from and had their roots in conscience, which were sustained by
fanaticism and the hopes of another world," he thus concludes: "Our Revolution, purely political,
is wholly rooted in egotism, in everybody's amour propre, in the combinations of which is found
the common interest." ("Brissot dévoilé," by Camille Desmoulins, January, 1792)--Bouchez et
Roux, XIII, 207.)]

[Footnote 1122: Rousseau's idea of the omnipotence of the State is also that of Louis XIV and
Napoleon... It is curious to see the development of the same idea in the mind of a contemporary
bourgeois, like Rétif de la Bretonne, half literary and half one of the people ("Nuits de Paris,"
XVe nuit, 377, on the September Massacres) "No, I do not pity those fanatical priests; they
have done the country too much mischief. Whatever a society, or a majority of it, desires,
that is right. He who opposes this, who calls down war and vengeance on the Nation, is a monster.
Order is always found in the agreement of the majority. The minority is always guilty, I repeat
it, even if it is morally right. Nothing but common sense is needed to see that truth."--Ibid.
(On the execution of Louis XVI.), p. 447. "Had the nation the right to condemn and execute
him? No thinking person can ask such a question. The nation is everything in itself; its power
is that which the whole human kind would have if but one nation, one single government governed
the globe. Who would dare then dispute the power of humanity? It is this indisputable power
that a nation has, to hang even an innocent man, felt by the ancient Greeks, which led them
to exile Aristoteles and put Phocion to death. 'Oh truth, unrecognized by our contemporaries,
what evil has arisen through forgetting it!'"]

[Footnote 1123: Moniteur, XI. 46. Speech by Isnard in the Assembly, Jan. 5, 1792. "The people
are now conscious of their dignity. They know, according to the constitution, that every Frenchman's
motto is: 'Live free, the equal of all, and one of the common sovereignty.'"--Guillon de Montléon,
I. 445. Speech by Chalier, in the Lyons Central Club, March 21, 1793. "Know that you are kings,
and more than kings. Do you not feel sovereignty circulating in your veins?"]

[Footnote 1124: Moniteur, V. 136. (Celebration of the Federation, July 14, 1790.)]

[Footnote 1125: Albert Babeau, "Histoire de Troyes pendant la Révolution," I. 436 (April 10,
1790).]

[Footnote 1126: Mortimer-Ternaux, "Histoire de la Terreur," I. 353. (Pétion's own narrative
of this journey.) This pert blockhead cannot even spell: he writes aselle for aisselle, etc.
He is convinced that Madame Elizabeth, the king's sister, wants to seduce him, and that she
makes advances to him: "If we had been alone, I believe that she would have fallen into my
arms, and let the impulses of nature have their way." He makes a display of virtue however,
and becomes only the more supercilious as he talks with the king, the young dauphin, and the
ladies he is fetching back.]

[Footnote 1127: The "Mémoires de Madame Roland" is a masterpiece of that conceit supposed to
be so careflilly concealed as not to be visible and never off its stilts. "I am beautiful,
I am affectionate, I am sensitive, I inspire love, I reciprocate, I remain virtuous, my mind
is superior, and my courage indomitable. I am philosopher, statesman, and writer, worthy of
the highest success," is constantly in her mind, and always perceptible in her phraseology.
Real modesty never shows itself. On the contrary, many indecorous things are said and done
by her from bravado, and to set herself above her sex. Cf. the "Memoirs of Mirs. Hutchinson,"
which present a great contrast. Madame Roland wrote: "I see no part in society which suits
me but that of Providence."--The same presumption shines out in others, with less refined pretensions.
The deputy Rouyer addresses the following letter, found among the papers of the iron wardrobe,
to the king, "I have compared, examined, and foreseen everything. All I ask to carry out my
noble purposes, is that direction of forces, which the law confers on you. I am aware of and
brave the danger; weakness defers to this, while genius overcomes it I have turned my attention
to all the courts of Europe, and am sure that I can force peace on them."--Robert, an obscure
pamphleteer, asks Dumouriez to make him ambassador to Constantinople, while Louvet, the author
of "Faublas," declares in his memoirs that liberty perished in 1792, because he was not appointed
Minister of Justice.]

[Footnote 1128: Moniteur, p. 189. Speech by Collot d'Herbois, on the mitraillades at Lyons.
"We too, possess sensibility! The Jacobins have every virtue; they are compassionate, humane,
and generous. These virtues, however, are reserved for patriots, who are their brethren, but
never for aristocrats."--Meillan, "Mémoires," p. 4. "Robespierre was one day eulogizing a man
named Desfieux, well known for his lack of integrity, and whom he finally sacrificed. 'But,
I said to him, your man Desfieux is known to be a rascal.'--'No matter,' he replied, 'he is
a good patriot.'--'But he is a fraudulent bankrupt.'-'He is a good patriot.'--'But he is a
thief.'--'He is a good patriot.' I could not get more than these three words out of him."]

CHAPTER II.

I.--Formation of the party.

     Its recruits--These are rare in the upper class and amongst
     the masses.--They are numerous in the low bourgeois class
     and in the upper stratum of the people.--The position and
     education which enroll a man in the party.

Personalities like these are found in all classes of society; no situation or position in life
protects one from wild Utopia or frantic ambition. We find among the Jacobins a Barras and
a Châteauneuf-Randon, two nobles of the oldest families; Condorcet, a marquis, mathematician,
philosopher and member of two renowned academies; Gobel, bishop of Lydda and suffragan to the
bishop of Bâle; Hérault de Séchellles, a protégé of the Queen's and attorney-general to the
Paris parliament; Lepelletier de St. Fargeau, chief-justice and one of the richest land-owners
in France; Charles de Hesse, major-general, born in the royal family; and, last of all, a prince
of the blood and fourth personage in the realm, the Duke of Orleans.--But, with the exception
of these rare deserters, neither the hereditary aristocracy nor the upper magistracy, nor the
highest of the middle class, none of the land-owners who live on their estates, or the leaders
of industrial and commercial enterprises, no one belonging to the administration, none of those,
in general, who are or deserve to be considered social authorities, furnish the party with
recruits. All have too much at stake in the political establishment, shattered as it is, to
wish its entire demolition. Their political experience, brief as it is, enables them to see
at once that a habitable house is not built by merely tracing a plan of it on paper according
the theorems of school geometry.--On the other hand, among the ordinary rural population the
ideology finds, unless it can be changed into a legend, no listeners. Share croppers, small
holders and farmers looking after their own plots of ground, peasants and craftsmen who work
too hard to think and whose minds never range beyond a village horizon, busy only with that
which brings in their daily bread, find abstract doctrines unintelligible; should the dogmas
of the new catechism arrest their attention the same thing happens as with the old one, they
do not understand them; that mental faculty by which an abstraction is reached is not yet formed
in them. On being taken to a political club they fall asleep; they open their eyes only when
some one announces that tithes and feudal privileges are to be restored; they can be depended
on for nothing more than a brawl and a jacquerie; later on, when their grain comes to be taxed
or is taken, they prove as unruly under the republic as under the monarchy.

The believers in this theory come from other quarters, from the two extremes of the lower stratum
of the middle class and the upper stratum of the low class. Again, in these two contiguous
groups, which merge into each other, those must be left out who, absorbed in their daily occupations
or professions, have no time or thought to give to public matters, who have reached a fair
position in the social hierarchy and are not disposed to run risks, almost all of them well-established,
steady-going, mature, married folks who have sown their wild oats and whom experience in life
has rendered distrustful of themselves and of theories. Overweening conceit is, most of the
time, only average in the average human being, so speculative ideas will with most people only
obtain a loose, transient and feeble hold. Moreover, in this society which, for many centuries
consists of people accustomed to being ruled, the hereditary spirit is bourgeois that is to
say, used to discipline, fond of order, peaceable and even timid.--There remains a minority,
a very small one,[1201] innovating and restless. This consisted, on the one hand, of people
who were discontented with their calling or profession, because they were of secondary or subaltern
rank in it.[1202] Some were debutantes not fully employed and others aspirants for careers
not yet entered upon. Then, on the other hand, there were the men of unstable character and
all those who were uprooted by the immense upheaval of things: in the Church, through the suppression
of convents and through schism; in the judiciary, in the administration, in the financial departments,
in the army, and in various private and public careers, through the reorganization of institutions,
through the novelty of fresh resources and occupations, and through the disturbance caused
by the changed relationships of patrons and clients. Many who, in ordinary times, would otherwise
remain quiet, become in this way nomadic and extravagant in politics. Among the foremost of
these are found those who, through a classical education, can take in an abstract proposition
and deduce its consequences, but who, for lack of special preparation for it, and confined
to the narrow circle of local affairs, are incapable of forming accurate conceptions of a vast,
complex social organization, and of the conditions which enable it to subsist. Their talent
lies in making a speech, in dashing off an editorial, in composing a pamphlet, and in drawing
up reports in more or less pompous and dogmatic style; the genre admitted, a few of them who
are gifted become eloquent, but that is all. Among those are the lawyers, notaries, bailiffs
and former petty provincial judges and attorneys who furnish the leading actors and two-thirds
of the members of the Legislative Assembly and of the Convention: There are surgeons and doctors
in small towns, like Bo, Levasseur, and Baudot, second and third-rate literary characters,
like Barrère, Louvet, Garat, Manuel, and Ronsin, college professors like Louchet and Romme,
schoolmasters like Leonard Bourdon, journalists like Brissot, Desmoulins and Freron, actors
like Collot d'Herbois, artists like Sergent, Oratoriens[1203] like Fouché, capuchins like Chabot,
more or less secularized priests like Lebon, Chasles, Lakanal, and Grégoire, students scarcely
out of school like St. Just, Monet of Strasbourg, Rousseline of St. Albin, and Julien of the
Drôme--in short, the poorly sown and badly cultivated minds, and on which the theory had only
to fall to smother the good grain and thrive like a nettle. Add to these charlatans and others
who live by their wits, the visionary and morbid of all sorts, from Fanchet and Klootz to Châlier
or Marat, the whole of that needy, chattering, irresponsible crowd, ever swarming about large
cities ventilating its shallow conceits and abortive pretensions. Farther in the background
appear those whose scanty education qualifies them to half understand an abstract principle
and imperfectly deduce its consequences, but whose roughly-polished instinct atones for the
feebleness of a coarse argumentation. Through cupidity, envy and rancor, they divine a rich
pasture-ground behind the theory, and Jacobin dogmas become dearer to them, because the imagination
sees untold treasures beyond the mists in which they are shrouded. They can listen to a club
harangue without falling asleep, applaud its tirades in the rights place, offer a resolution
in a public garden, shout in the tribunes, pen affidavits for arrests, compose orders-of-the-day
for the national guard, and lend their lungs, arms, and sabers to whoever bids for them. But
here their capacity ends. In this group merchants' and notaries' clerks abound, like Hébert
and Henriot, Vincent and Chaumette, butchers like Legendre, postmasters like Drouet, boss-joiners
like Duplay, school-teachers like that Buchot who becomes a minister, and many others of the
same sort, accustomed to jotting down ideas, with vague notions of orthography and who are
apt in speech-making,[1204] foremen, sub-officers, former begging friars, peddlers, tavern-keepers,
retailers, market-porters, and city-journeymen from Gouchon, the orator of the faubourg St.
Antoine, down to Simon, the cobbler of the Temple, from Trinchard, the juryman of the Revolutionary
Tribunal, down to grocers, tailors, shoemakers, tapster, waiters, barbers, and other shopkeepers
or artisans who do their work at home, and who are yet to do the work of the September massacres.
Add to these the foul remnants of every popular insurrection and dictatorship, beasts of prey
like Jourdain of Avignon, and Fournier the American, women like Théroigne, Rose Lacombe, and
the tricoteuses of the Convention who have unsexed themselves, the amnestied bandits and other
gallows birds who, for lack of a police, have a wide range, street-rollers and vagabonds, rebels
against labor and discipline, the whole of that class in the center of civilization which preserves
the instincts of savages, and asserts the sovereignty of the people to glut a natural appetite
for license, laziness, and ferocity.--Thus is the party recruited through an enlisting process
that gleans its subjects from every station in life, but which reaps them down in great swaths,
and gathers them together in the two groups to which dogmatism and presumption naturally belong.
Here, education has brought man to the threshold, even to the heart of general ideas; consequently,
he feels hampered within the narrow bounds of his profession or occupation, and aspires to
something beyond. But as his education has remained superficial or rudimentary, consequently,
outside of his narrow circle he feels out of his place. He has a perception or obtains a glimpse
of political ideas and, therefore, assumes that he has capacity. But his perception is confided
to a formula, and he sees them dimly through a cloud; hence his incapacity, and the reason
why his mental lacunae as well as his attainments both contribute to make him a Jacobin.

II.--Spontaneous associations after July 14, 1789.

     How these dissolve.--Withdrawal of people of sense and
     occupation.--Number of those absent at elections.--Birth and
     multiplication of Jacobin societies.--Their influence over
     their adherents--Their maneuvers and despotism.

Men thus disposed cannot fail to draw near each other, to understand each other, and combine
together; for, in the principle of popular sovereignty, they have a common dogma, and, in the
conquest of political supremacy, a common aim. Through a common aim they form a faction, and
through a common dogma they constitute a sect, the league between them being more easily effected
because they are a faction and sect at the same time.

At first their association is not distinguishable in the multitude of other associations. Political
societies spring up on all sides after the taking of the Bastille. Some kind of organization
had to be substituted for the deposed or tottering government, in order to provide for urgent
public needs, to secure protection against ruffians, to obtain supplies of provisions, and
to guard against the probably machinations of the court. Committees installed themselves in
the town halls, while volunteers formed bodies of militia: hundreds of local governments, almost
independent, arose in the place of the central government, almost destroyed.[1205] For six
months everybody attended to matters of common interest, each individual getting to be a public
personage and bearing his quota of the government load: a heavy load at all times, but heavier
in times of anarchy; this, at least, is the opinion of the majority but not of all of them.
Consequently, a division arises amongst those who had assumed this load, and two groups are
formed, one huge, inert and disintegrating, and the other small, compact and energetic, each
taking one of two ways which diverge from each other, and which keep on diverging more and more.

On one hand are the ordinary, sensible people, those who are busy, and who are, to some extent,
not over-conscientious, and not over-conceited. The power is in their hands because they find
it prostrate, lying abandoned in the street; they hold it provisionally only, for they knew
beforehand, or soon discover, that they are not qualified for the post, it being one of those
which, to be properly filled, needs some preparation and fitness for it. A man does not become
legislator or administrator in one day, any more than he suddenly becomes a physician or surgeon.
If an accident obliges me to act in the latter capacity, I yield, but against my will, and
I do no more than is necessary to save my patients from hurting themselves, My fear of their
dying under the operation is very great, and, as soon as some other person can be found to
take my place, I go home.[1206]--I should be glad, like everybody else, to have my vote in
the selection of this person, and, among the candidates. I should designate, to the best of
my ability, one who seemed to me the ablest and most conscientious. Once selected, however,
and installed, I should not attempt to dictate to him; his cabinet is private, and I have no
right to run there constantly and cross-question him, as if he were a child or under suspicion.
It does not become me to tell him what to do; he probably knows more about the case than I
do; in any event, to keep a steady hand, he must not be threatened, and, to keep a clear head,
he must not be disturbed. Nor must I be disturbed; my office and books, my shop, my customers
must be attended to as well. Everybody has to mind his own business, and whoever would attend
to his own and another's too, spoils both.--This way of thinking prevails with most healthy
minds towards the beginning of the year 1790, all whose heads are not turned by insane ambition
and the mania for theorizing, especially after six months of practical experience and knowing
the dangers, miscalculation, and vexations to which one is exposed in trying to lead an eager,
over-excited population.--Just at this time, December 1789, municipal law becomes established
throughout the country; all the mayors and municipal officers are elected almost immediately,
and in the following months, all administrators of districts and departments. The interregnum
has a length come to an end. Legal authorities now exist, with legitimate and clearly-determined
functions. Reasonable, honest people gladly turn power over to those to whom it belongs, and
certainly do not dream of resuming it. All associations for temporary purposes are at once
disbanded for lack of an object, and if others are formed, it is for the purpose of defending
established institutions. This is the object of the Federation, and, for six months, people
embrace each other and exchange oaths of fidelity.--After this, July 14, 1790, they retire
into private life, and I have no doubt that, from this date, the political ambition of a large
plurality of the French people is satisfied, for, although Rousseau's denunciation of the social
hierarchy are still cited by them, they, at bottom, desire but little more than the suppression
of administrative brutality and state favoritism.[1207] All this is obtained, and plenty of
other things besides; the august title of sovereign, the respect of the public authorities,
honors to all who wield a pen or make a speech, and, better still, actual sovereignty in the
appointment to office of all local land national administrators; not only do the people elect
their deputies, but every species of functionary of every degree, those of commune, district,
and department, officers in the national guard, civil and criminal magistrates, bishops and
priests. Again, to ensure the responsibility of the elected to their electors, the term of
office fixed by law is a short one,[1208] the electoral machine which summons the sovereign
to exercise his sovereignty being set agoing about every four months.--This was a good deal,
and too much, as the sovereign himself soon discovers. Voting so frequently becomes unendurable;
so many prerogatives end in getting to be drudgery. Early in 1790, and after this date, the
majority forego the privilege of voting and the number of absentees becomes enormous. At Chartres,
in May, 1790,[1209] 1,447 out of 1,551 voters do not attend preliminary meetings. At Besançon,
in January, 1790, on the election of mayor and municipal officers, 2,141 out of 3,200 registered
electors are recorded as absent from the polls, and 2,900 in the following month of November.[1210]
At Grenoble, in August and November of this year, out of 2,500 registered voters, more than
2,000 are noted as absent.[1211] At Limoges, out of about the same number, there are only 150
voters. At Paris, out of 81,400 electors, in August, 1790, 67,200 do not vote, and, three months
later, the number of absentees is 71,408.[1212]

Thus for every elector that votes, there are four, six, eight, ten, and even sixteen that abstain
from voting.--In the election of deputies, the case is the same. At the primary meetings of
1791, in Paris, out of 81,200 registered names more than 74,000 fail to respond. In the Doubs,
three out of four voters stay away. In one of the cantons of the Côte d'Or, at the close of
the polls, only one-eighth of the electors remain at the counting of the votes, while in the
secondary meetings the desertion is not less. At Paris, out of 946 electors chosen only 200
are found to give their suffrage; at Rouen, out of 700 there are but 160, and on the last day
of the ballot, only 60. In short, "in all departments," says an orator in the tribune, "scarcely
one out of five electors of the second degree discharges his duty."

In this manner the majority hands in its resignation. Through inertia, want of forethought,
lassitude, aversion to the electoral hubbub, lack of political preferences, or dislike of all
the political candidates, it shirks the task which the constitution imposes on it. Most certainly
is has no taste for the painstaking burden of being involved in a league (of human rights).
Men who cannot find time once in three months to drop a ballot in the box, will not come three
times a week to attend the meetings of a club. Far from meddling with the government, they
abdicate, and as they refuse to elect it, they cannot undertake to control it.

It is, on the other hand, just the opposite with the upstarts and dogmatists who regard their
royal privileges seriously. They not only vote at the elections, but they mean to keep the
authority they delegate in their own hands. In their eyes every official is one of their creatures,
and remains accountable to them, for, in point of law, the people may not part with their sovereignty,
while, in fact, power has proved so sweet that they are not disposed to part with it.[1213]
During six months preceding the regular elections, they have come to know, comprehend, and
test each other; they have held secret meetings; a mutual understanding is arrived at, and
henceforth, as other associations disappear like fleeting bloom, theirs[1214] rise vigorously
on the abandoned soil. A club is established at Marseilles before the end of 1789; each large
town has one within the first six months of 1790, Aix in February, Montpellier in March, Nîmes
in April, Lyons in May, and Bordeaux in June.[1215] But their greatest increase takes place
after the Federation festival. Just when local gatherings merge into that of the whole country,
the sectarian Jacobins keep aloof, and form leagues of their own. At Rouen, July 14, 1790,
two surgeons, a printer, a chaplain at the prison, a widowed Jewess, and four women or children
living in the house,--eight persons in all, pure and not to be confounded with the mass,[1216]
bind themselves together, and form a distinct association. Their patriotism is of superior
quality, and they take a special view of the social compact;[1217] in swearing fealty to the
constitution they reserve to themselves the Rights of Man, and they mean to maintain not only
the reforms already effected, but to complete the Revolution just begun.--During the Federation
they have welcomed and indoctrinated their fellows who, on quitting the capital or large cities,
become bearers of instructions to the small towns and hamlets; they are told what the object
of a club is, and how to form one, and, everywhere, popular associations arise on the same
plan, for the same purpose, and bearing the same name. A month later, sixty of these associations
are in operation; three months later, one hundred; in March, 1791, two hundred and twenty-nine,
and in August, 1791, nearly four hundred.[1218] After this date a sudden increase takes place,
owing to two simultaneous impulses, which scatter their seeds over the entire territory.--On
the one hand, at then end of July, 1791, all moderate men, the friends of law and order, who
still hold the clubs in check, all constitutionalists, or Feuillants, withdraw from them and
leave them to exaggeration or the triviality of proposing motions; the political tone immediately
falls to that of the tavern and guard-house, so that wherever one or the other is found, there
is a political club. On the other hand, a convocation of the electoral body is held at the
same date for the election of a new National Assembly, and for the renewal of local governments;
the prey being in sight, hunting-parties are everywhere formed to capture it. In two months,[1219]
six hundred new clubs spring up; by the end of September they amount to one thousand, and in
June, 1792, to twelve hundred--as many as there are towns and walled boroughs. On the fall
of the throne, and at the panic caused by the Prussian invasion, during a period of anarchy
which equaled that of July, 1789, there were, according to Roederer, almost as many clubs as
there were communes, 26,000, one for every village containing five or six hot-headed, boisterous
fellows, or roughs, (tape-durs), with a clerk able to pen a petition.

After November, 1790,[1220] "every street in every town and hamlet," says a Journal of large
circulation, "must have a club of its own. Let some honest craftsman invite his neighbors to
his house, where, with using a shared candle, he may read aloud the decrees of the National
Assembly, on which he and his neighbors may comment. Before the meeting closes, in order to
enliven the company, which may feel a little disturbed on account of Marat's articles, let
him read the patriotic oaths in 'Pêre Duchesne.'"[1221]--The advice is followed. At the meetings
in the club are read aloud pamphlets, newspapers, and catechisms dispatched from Paris, the
"Gazette Villageoise," the "Journal du Soir," the "Journal de la Montagne," "Pêre Duchesne,"
the "Révolutions de Paris," and "Laclos' Gazette." Revolutionary songs are sung, and, if a
good speaker happens to be present, a former monk (oratorien), lawyer, or school-master, he
pours out his stock of phrases, speaking of the Greeks and Romans, proclaiming the regeneration
of the human species. One of them, appealing to the women, wants to see

"the declaration of the Rights of Man suspended on the walls of their bedrooms as their principal
ornament, and, should war break out, these virtuous supporters, marching at the head of our
armies like new bacchantes with flowing hair, the wand of Bacchus in their hand."

Shouts of applause greet this sentiment. The minds of the listeners, swept away by this gale
of declamation, become overheated and ignite through mutual contact; like half-consumed embers
that would die out if let alone, they kindle into a blaze when gathered together in a heap.--Their
convictions, at the same time, gain strength. There is nothing like a coterie to make these
take root. In politics, as in religion, faith generating the church, the latter, in its turn,
nourishes faith. In the club, as in the private religious meeting, each derives authority from
the common unanimity, every word and action of the whole tending to prove each in the right.
And all the more because a dogma which remains uncontested, ends in seeming incontestable;
as the Jacobin lives in a narrow circle, carefully guarded, no contrary opinions find their
way to him. The public, in his eyes, seems two hundred persons; their opinion weighs on him
without any counterpoise, and, outside of their belief, which is his also, every other belief
is absurd and even culpable. Moreover, he discovers through this constant system of preaching,
which is nothing but flattery, that he is patriotic, intelligent, virtuous, of which he can
have no doubt, because, before being admitted into the club, his civic virtues have been verified
and he carries a printed certificate of them in his pocket.--Accordingly, he is one of an élite
corps, a corps which, enjoying a monopoly of patriotism, holds itself aloof, talks loud, and
is distinguished from ordinary citizens by its tone and way of conducting things. The club
of Pontarlier,[1222] from the first, prohibits its members from using the common forms of politeness.

"Members are to abstain from saluting their fellow-citizens by removing the hat, and are to
avoid the phrase, 'I have the honor to be,' and others of like import, in addressing persons."

A proper idea of one's importance is indispensable.

"Does not the famous tribune of the Jacobins in Paris inspire traitors and impostors with fear?
And do not anti-Revolutionaries return to dust on beholding it?"

All this is true, in the provinces as well as at the capital, for, scarcely is a club organized
before it sets to work on the population. In may of the large cities, in Paris, Lyons, Aix
and Bordeaux, there are two clubs in partnership,[1223] one, more or less respectable and parliamentary,
"composed partly of the members of the different branches of the administration and specially
devoted to purposes of general utility," and the other, practical and active, made up of bar-room
politicians and club-haranguers, who indoctrinate workmen, market-gardeners and the rest of
the lower bourgeois class. The latter is a branch of the former, and, in urgent cases, supplies
it with rioters.

"We are placed amongst the people," says one of these subaltern clubs, "we read to them the
decrees, and, through lectures and counsel, we warn them against the publications and intrigues
of the aristocrats. We ferret out and track plotters and their machinations. We welcome and
advise all complainants; we enforce their demands, when just; finally, we, in some way, attend
to all details."

Thanks to these vulgar auxiliaries, but whose lungs and arms are strong, the party soon becomes
dominant; it has force and uses it, and, denying that its adversaries have any rights, it re-establishes
all the privileges for its own advantage.[1224]

III.--How they view the liberty of the press.

     Their political doings.

Let us consider its mode of procedure in one instance and upon a limited field, the freedom
of the press.[1225] In December, 1790, M. Etienne, an engineer, whom Marat and Fréron had denounced
as a spy in their periodicals, brought a suit against them in the police court. The numbers
containing the libel were seized, the printers summoned to appear, and M. Etienne claimed a
public retraction or 25,000 francs damages with costs. At this the two journalists, considering
themselves infallible as well as exempt from arrest, are indignant.

"It is of the utmost importance," writes Marat, "that the informer should not be liable to
prosecution as he is accountable only to the public for what he says and does for the public good."

M. Etienne (surnamed Languedoc), therefore, is a traitor: "Monsieur Languedoc, I advise you
to keep your mouth shut; if I can have you hung I will." M. Etienne, nevertheless, persists
and obtains a first decision in his favor. Fire and flame are at once belched forth by Marat
and Fréon:

"Master Thorillon," exclaims Fréron to the commissary of police, "you shall be punished and
held up to the people as an example; this infamous decision must be canceled."--"Citizens,"
writes Marat, "go in a body to the Hôtel-de-Ville and do not allow one of the guards to enter
the court-room. "--On the day of the trial, and in the most condescending spirit, but two grenadiers
are let in. Even these, however, are too many and shouts from the Jacobin crowd arise "Turn
'em out! We rule here," upon which the two grenadiers withdraw. On the other hand, says Fréron
triumphantly, that there were in the court-room "sixty of the victors at the Bastille led by
the brave Santerre, who intended to interfere in the trial."--They intervene, indeed, and first
against the plaintiff. M. Etienne is attacked at the entrance of the court-room and nearly
knocked down He is so maltreated that he is obliged to seek shelter in the guard-room. He is
spit upon, and they "move to cut off his ears." His friends receive "hundreds of kicks," while
he runs away, and the case is postponed.--It is called up again several times, so no the judges
have to be restrained. A certain Mandart in the audience, author of a pamphlet on "Popular
Sovereignty," springs to his feet and, addressing Bailly, mayor of Paris, and president of
the tribunal, challenges the court. As usual Bailly yields, attempting to cover up his weakness
with an honorable pretext: "Although a judge can be challenged only by the parties to a suit,
the appeal of one citizen is sufficient for me and I leave the bench." The other judges, who
are likewise insulted and menaced, yield also, and, through a sophism which admirably illustrates
the times, they discover in the oppression to which the plaintiff is subject a legal device
by which they can give a fair color to their denial of justice. M. Etienne having signified
to them that neither he nor his counsel could attend in court, because their lives were in
danger, the court decides that M. Etienne, "failing to appear in person, or by counsel, is
non-suited."--Victorious shouts at once proceed from the two journalists, while their articles
on the case disseminated throughout France set a precedence contained in the ruling. Any Jacobin
may after this with impunity denounce, insult, and calumniate whomsoever he pleases, sheltered
as he is from the action of courts, and held superior to the law.

Let us see, on the other hand, what liberty they allow their adversaries. A fortnight before
this, Mallet du Pan, a writer of great ability, who, in the best periodical of the day, discusses
questions week after week free of all personalities, the most independent, straight-forward,
and honorable of men, the most eloquent and judicious advocate of public order and true liberty,
is waited upon by a deputation from the Palais-Royal,[1226] consisting of about a dozen well-dressed
individuals, civil enough and not too ill-disposed, but quite satisfied that they have a right
to interfere. The conversation which ensues shows to what extent the current political creed
had turned peoples' heads.

"One of the party, addressing me, informed me that he and his associates were deputies of the
Palais-Royal clubs, and that they had called to notify me that I would do well to change my
principles and stop attacking the constitution, otherwise extreme violence would be brought
to bear on me. I replied that I recognized no authority but the law and that of the courts;
the law is your master and mine, and no respect is shown to the constitution by assailing the
freedom of the press."

"The constitution is the common will, resumed the spokesman. The law, is the authority of the
strongest. You are subject to the strongest and you ought to submit. We notify you of the will
of the nation and that is the law.'"

Mallet du Pan stated to them that he was not in favor of the ancient régime, but that he did
approve of royal authority.

"Oh!" exclaimed all together, "we should be sorry not to have a king. We respect the King and
maintain his authority. But you are forbidden to oppose the dominant opinion and the liberty
which is decreed by the National Assembly."

Mallet du Pan, apparently, knows more about this than they do, for he is a Swiss by birth,
and has lived under a republic for twenty years. But this does not concern them. They persist
all the same, five or six talking at once, misconstruing the sense the words they use, and
each contradicting the other in point of detail, but all agreeing to impose silence on him:

"You should not run counter to the popular will, for in doing this you preach civil war, bring
the assembly's decrees into contempt, and irritate the nation."

Evidently, for them, they constitute the nation, or, more or less, they represent it. Through
this self-investiture they are at once magistrates, censors, and police, while the scolded
journalist is only too glad, in his case, to have them stop at injunctions.--Three days before
this he is advised that a body of rioters in his neighborhood "threatened to treat his house
like that of M. de Castries," in which everything had been smashed and thrown out the windows.
At another time, apropos of the suspensive or absolute veto; "four savage fellows came to his
domicile to warn him, showing him their pistols, that if he dared write in behalf of M. Mounier
he should answer for it with his life." Thus, from the outset,

"just as the nation begins to enjoy the inestimable right of free thought and free speech,
factional tyrants lose no time in depriving citizens of these, proclaiming to all that would
maintain the integrity of their consciences: Tremble, die, or believe as we do!"

After this, to impose silence on those who express what is offensive, the crowd, the club,
the section, decree and execute, each on its own authority,[1227] searches, arrests, assaults,
and, at length, assassinations. During the month of June, 1792, "three decrees of arrest and
fifteen denunciations, two acts of affixing seals, four civic invasions of his premises, and
the confiscation of whatever belonged to him in France" is the experience of Mallet du Pan.
He passes four years "without knowing with any certainty on going to bed whether he should
get out of it in the morning alive and free." Later on, if he escapes the guillotine and the
lantern, it is owing to exile. On the 10th of August, Suleau, a conservative journalist, is
massacred in the street.--This shows how the party regards the freedom of the press. Other
liberties may be judged of by its encroachments on this domain. Law, in its eyes, is null when
it proves an obstacle, and when it affords protection to adversaries; consequently there is
no excess which it does not sanction for itself; and no right which it does not refuse to others.

There is no escape from the tyranny of the clubs. "That of Marseilles has forced the city officials
to resign;[1228] it has summoned the municipal body to appear before it; it has ignored the
authority of the department, and has insulted the administrators of the law. Members of the
Orleans club have kept the national Supreme Court under supervision, and taken part in its
proceedings. Those of the Caen club have insulted the magistrates, and seized and burnt the
records of the proceedings commenced against the destroyers of the statue of Louis XIV. At
Alby they have forcibly abstracted from the record-office the papers relating to an assassin's
trial, and burnt them." The club at Coutance gives the deputies of its district to understand
that "no reflections must be cast on the laws of the people." That of Lyons stops an artillery
train, under the pretext that the ministry in office does not enjoy the nation's confidence.--Thus
does the club everywhere govern, or prepare to govern. On the one hand, at the elections, it
sets aside or supports candidates; it alone votes, or, at least, controls the voting. In short,
the club is the elective power, and practically, if not legally, enjoys the privileges of a
political aristocracy. On the other hand, it assumes to be a spontaneous police-board; it prepares
and circulates the lists which designate the ill-disposed, suspected, and lukewarm; it lodges
information against nobles whose sons have emigrated; against unsworn priests who still reside
in their former parishes, and against nuns, "whose conduct is unconstitutional". It prompts,
directs, and rebukes local authorities; it is itself a supplemental, superior, and usurping
authority.--All at once, sensible men realize its character, and protest against it.

"A body thus organized," says a petition,[1229] "exists solely for arming one citizen against
another.... Discussions take place there, and denunciations are made under the seal of inviolable
secrecy..... Honest citizens, surrendered to the most atrocious calumny, are destroyed without
an opportunity of defending themselves. It is a veritable Inquisition. It is the center of
seditious publications, a school of cabals and intrigue. If the citizens have to blush at the
selection of unworthy candidates, they are all due to this class of associations... Composed
of the excited and the incendiary, of those who aim to rule the State," the club everywhere tends

"to a mastery of the popular opinion, to thwarting the municipalities, to an intrusion of itself
between these and the people," to an usurpation of legal forms and to become a "colossus of
despotism."

Vain complaints! The National Assembly, ever in alarm on its own account, shields the popular
club and accords it its favor or indulgence. A journal of the party had recommended "the people
to form themselves into small platoons." These platoons, one by one, are growing. Each borough
now has a local oligarchy, an enlisted and governing band. To create an army out of these scattered
bands, simply requires a staff and a central rallying-point. The central point and the staff
have both for a long time been ready in Paris, it is the association of the "Friends of the
Constitution."

IV.--Their rallying-points.

     Origin and composition of the Paris Jacobin club.--It
     affiliates with provincial clubs.--Its leaders.--The
     fanatics.--The Intriguers.--Their object.--Their means.

No association in France, indeed, dates farther back, and has an equal prestige. It was born
before the Revolution, April 30, 1789.[1230] At the assembly of the States-General in Brittany,
the deputies from Quimper, Hennebon, and Pontivy saw how important it was to vote in concert,
and they had scarcely reached Versailles when, in common with others, they hired a hall, and,
along with Mounier, secretary of the States-General of Dauphiny, and other deputies from the
provinces, at once organized a union which was destined to last. Up to the 6th of October,
none but deputies were comprised in it; after that date, on removing to Paris, in the library
of the Jacobins, a convent in the Rue St. Honoré, many well-known eminent men were admitted,
such as Condorcet, and then Laharpe, Chénier, Champfort, David, and Talma, among the most prominent,
with other authors and artists, the whole amounting to about a thousand notable personages.--No
assemblage could be more imposing--two or three hundred deputies are on its benches, while
its rules and by-laws seem specially designed to gather a superior body of men. Candidates
for admission were proposed by ten members and afterwards voted on by ballot. To be present
at one of its meetings required a card of admission. On one occasion, a member of the committee
of two, appointed to verify these cards, happens to be the young Duke of Chartres. There is
a committee on administration and a president. Discussions took place with parliamentary formalities,
and, according to its status, the questions considered there were those under debate in the
National Assembly.[1231] In the lower hall, at certain hours, workmen received instruction
and the constitution was explained to them. Seen from afar, no society seems worthier of directing
public opinion; near by, the case is different. In the departments, however, where distance
lends enchantment, and where old customs prevail implanted by centralization, it is accepted
as a guide because its seat is at the capital. Its statutes, its regulations, its spirit, are
all imitated; it becomes the alma mater of other associations and they its adopted daughters.
It publishes, accordingly, a list of all clubs conspicuously in its journal, together with
their denunciations; it insists on their demands; henceforth, every Jacobin in the remotest
borough feels the support and endorsement, not only of his local, club, but again of the great
club whose numerous offshoots reached the entire territory and which extends its all-powerful
protection to the least of its adherents. In return for this protection, each associated club
obeys the word of command given at Paris, and to and from, from the center to the extremities,
a constant correspondence maintains the established harmony. A vast political machine is thus
set agoing, a machine with thousands of arms, all working at once under one impulsion, and
the lever which the motions is in the hands of a few master spirits in the Rue St. Honoré.

No machine could be more effective; never was one seen so well contrived for manufacturing
artificial, violent public opinion, for making this appear to be national, spontaneous sentiment,
for conferring the rights of the silent majority on a vociferous minority, for forcing the
surrender of the government.

"Our tactics were very simple," says Grégoire[1232]. "It was understood that one of us should
take advantage of the first favorable opportunity to propose some measure in the National Assembly
that was sure to be applauded by a small minority and cried down by the majority. But that
made no difference. The proposer demanded, which was granted, that the measure should be referred
to a committee in which its opponents hoped to see it buried. Then the Paris Jacobins took
hold of it. A circular was issued, after which an article on the measure was printed in their
journal and discussed in three or four hundred clubs that were leagued together. Three weeks
after this the Assembly was flooded with petitions from every quarter, demanding a decree of
which the first proposal had been rejected, and which is now passed by a great majority because
a discussion of it had ripened public opinion."

In other words, the Assembly must go ahead or it will be driven along, in which process the
worst expedients are the best. Those who conduct the club, whether fanatics or intriguers,
are fully agreed on this point.

At the head of the former class is Duport, once a counselor in the parliament, who, after 1788,
knew how to turn riots to account. The first revolutionary consultations were held in his house.
He wants to plough deep, and his devices for burying the ploughshare are such that Sieyès,
a radical, if there ever was one, dubbed it a "cavernous policy."[1233] Duport, on the 28th
of July, 1789, is the organizer of the Committee on Searches, by which all favorably disposed
informers or spies form in his hands a supervisory police, which fast becomes a police of provocation.
He finds recruits in the lower hall of the Jacobin club, where workmen come to be catechized
every morning, while his two lieutenants, the brothers Laurette, have only to draw on the same
source for a zealous staff in a choice selection of their instruments. "Ten reliable men receive
orders there daily;[1234] each of these in turn gives his orders to ten more, belonging to
different battalions in Paris. In this way each battalion and section receives the same insurrectionary
orders, the same denunciations of the constituted authorities, of the mayor of Paris, of the
president of the department, and of the commander of the National Guard," everything taking
place secretly. These are dark deeds: the leaders themselves call it 'the Sabbath' and, along
with fanatics they enlist ruffians. "They spread the rumor that, on a certain day, there will
be a great commotion with assassinations and pillage, preceded by the payment of money distributed
from hand to hand by subaltern officers among those that can be relied on, and that these bands
are to assemble, as advertised, within a radius of thirty or forty leagues."[1235]--One day,
to provoke a riot, "half a dozen men, who have arranged the thing, form a small group, in which
one of them holds forth vehemently; at once a crowd of about sixty others gathers around them.
Then the six men move on from place to place, to form fresh groups making their apparent excitement
pass for popular irritation.--Another day, "about forty fanatics, with powerful lungs, and
four or five hundred paid men," scatter themselves around the Tuileries, "yelling furiously,"
and, gathering under the windows of the Assembly, "move resolutions to assassinate."--"Our
ushers," says a deputy to the Assembly, "whom you ordered to suppress this tumult, heard reiterated
threats of bringing you the heads of those the crowd wished to proscribe. That very evening,
in the Palais-Royal, "I heard a subordinate leader of this factious band boast of having charged
your ushers to take this answer back, adding that there was time enough yet for all good citizens
to follow his advice."--The watchword of these agitators is, are you true and the response
is, a true man. Their pay is twelve francs a day, and when in action they make engagements
on the spot at that rate. "From several depositions taken by officers of the National Guard
and at the mayoralty," it is ascertained that twelve francs a day were tendered to "honest
people to join in with those you may have heard shouting, and some of them actually had the
twelve francs put into their hands."--The money comes from the coffers of the Duke of Orleans,
and they are freely drawn upon; at his death, with a property amounting to 114,000,000 francs,
his debts amount to 74,000,000.[1236] Being one of the faction, he contributes to its expenses,
and, being the richest man in the kingdom, he contributes proportionately to his wealth. Not
because he is a party leader, for he is too effeminate, too nervous; but "his petty council,"[1237]
and especially one of his private secretaries, Laclos, cherishes great designs for him, their
object being to make him lieutenant-general of the kingdom, afterwards regent, and even king,[1238]
so that they may rule in his name and "share the profits."----In the mean time they turn his
whims to the best account, particularly Laclos, who is a kind of subordinate Macchiavelli,
capable of anything, profound, depraved, and long indulging his fondness for monstrous combinations;
nobody ever so coolly delighted in indescribable compounds of human wickedness and debauchery.
In politics, as in romance, his department is "Les Liaisons Dangereuses." Formerly he maneuvered
as an amateur with prostitutes and ruffians in the fashionable world; now he maneuvers in earnest
with the prostitutes and ruffians of the sidewalks. On the 5th of October 1789, he is seen,
"dressed in a brown coat,"[1239] foremost among the women starting for Versailles, while his
hand[1240] is visible "in the Réveillon affair, also in the burning of barriers and Châteaux,"
and in the widespread panic which aroused all France against imaginary bandits. His operations,
says Malouet, "were all paid for by the Duke of Orleans"; he entered into them "for his own
account, and the Jacobins for theirs."--At this time their alliance is plain to everybody.
On the 21st of November, 1790, Laclos becomes secretary of the club, chief of the department
of correspondence, titular editor of its journal, and the invisible, active, and permanent
director of all its enterprises. Whether actual demagogues or prompted by ambition, whether
paid agents or earnest revolutionaries, each group works on its own account, both in concert,
both in the same direction, and both devoted to the same undertaking, which is the conquest
of power by every possible means.

V.--Small number of Jacobins.

     Sources of their power.--They form a league.--They have
     faith.--Their unscrupulousness.--The power of the party
     vested in the group which best fulfills these conditions.

At first sight their success seems doubtful, for they are in a minority, and a very small one.
At Besançon, in November, 1791, the revolutionaries of every shade of opinion and degree, whether
Girondists or Montagnards, consist of about 500 or 600 out of 3,000 electors, and, in November,
1792, of not more than the same number out of 6,000 and 7,000.[1241] At Paris, in November,
1791, there are 6,700 out of more than 81,000 on the rolls; in October, 1792, there are less
than 14,000 out of 160,000.[1242] At Troyes, in 1792, there are found only 400 or 500 out of
7,000 electors, and at Strasbourg the same number out of 8,000 electors.[1243] Accordingly
only about one-tenth of the electoral population are revolutionaries, and if we leave out the
Girondists and the semi-conservatives, the number is reduced by one-half. Towards the end of
1792, at Besançon, scarcely more than 300 pure Jacobins are found in a population of from 25,000
to 30,000, while at Paris, out of 700,000 inhabitants only 5,000 are Jacobins. It is certain
that in the capital, where the most excitement prevails, and where more of them are found than
elsewhere, never, even in a crisis and when vagabonds are paid and bandits recruited, are there
more than 10,000.[1244] In a large town like Toulouse a representative of the people on missionary
service wins over only about 400 persons.[1245] Counting fifty or so in each small town, twenty
in each large borough, and five or six in each village, we find, on an average, but one Jacobin
to fifteen electors and National Guards, while, taking the whole of France, all the Jacobins
put together do not amount to 300,000.[1246]--This is a small number for the enslavement of
six millions of able-bodied men, and for installing in a country of twenty-six millions inhabitants
a more absolute despotism than that of an Asiatic sovereign. Force, however, is not measured
by numbers; they form a band in the midst of a crowd and, in this disorganized, inert crowd,
a band that is determined to push its way like an iron wedge splitting a log.

And against sedition from within as well as conquest from without a nation may only defend
itself through the activities of its government, which provides the indispensable instruments
of common action. Let it fail or falter and the great majority, undecided about what to do,
lukewarm and busy elsewhere, ceases to be a corps and disintegrates into dust. Of the two governments
around which the nation might have rallied, the first one, after July 14, 1789, lies prostrate
on the ground where it slowly crumbles away. Now its ghost, which returns, is still more odious
because it brings with it the same senseless abuses and intolerable burdens, and, in addition
to these, a yelping pack of claimants and recriminators. After 1790 it appears on the frontier
more arbitrary than ever at the head of a coming invasion of angry émigrés and grasping foreigners.--The
other government, that just constructed by the Constituent Assembly, is so badly put together
that the majority cannot use it. It is not adapted to its hand; no political instrument at
once so ponderous and so helpless was ever seen. An enormous effort is needed to set it in
motion; every citizen is obliged to give it about two days labor per week.[1247] Thus laboriously
started but half in motion, it poorly meets the various tasks imposed upon it--the collection
of taxes, public order in the streets, the circulation of supplies, and security for consciences,
lives and property. Toppled over by its own action, another rises out of it, illegal and serviceable,
which takes its place and stands.--In a great centralized state whoever possesses the head
possesses the body. By virtue of being led, the French have contracted the habit of letting
themselves be led.[1248] People in the provinces involuntarily turn their eyes to the capital,
and, on a crisis occurring, run out to stop the mailman to know what government happens to
have fallen, the majority accepts or submits to it.--Because, in the first place, most of the
isolated groups which would like to overthrow it dare not engage in the struggle: it seems
too strong; through inveterate routine they imagine behind it that great, distant France which,
under its impulsion, will crush them with its mass.[1249] In the second place, should a few
isolated groups undertake to overthrow it, they are not in a condition to keep up the struggle:
it is too strong. They are, indeed, not yet organized while it is fully so, owing to the docile
set of officials inherited from the government overthrown. Under monarchy or republic the government
clerk comes to his office regularly every morning to dispatch the orders transmitted to him.[1250]
Under monarchy or republic the policeman daily makes his round to arrest those against who
he has a warrant. So long as instructions come from above in the hierarchical order of things,
they are obeyed. From one end of the territory to the other, therefore, the machine, with its
hundred thousand arms, works efficiently in the hands of those who have seized the lever at
the central point. Resolution, audacity, rude energy, are all that are needed to make the lever
act, and none of these are wanting in the Jacobin. [1251]

First, he has faith, and faith at all times "moves mountains.[1252] "Take any ordinary party
recruit, an attorney, a second-rate lawyer, a shopkeeper, an artisan, and conceive, if you
can, the extraordinary effect of this doctrine on a mind so poorly prepared for it, so narrow,
so out of proportion with the gigantic conception which has mastered it. Formed for the routine
and the limited views of one in his position, he is suddenly carried away by a complete system
of philosophy, a theory of nature and of man, a theory of society and of religion, a theory
of universal history,[1253] conclusions about the past, the present, and the future of humanity,
axioms of absolute right, a system of perfect and final truth, the whole concentrated in a
few rigid formulae as, for example:

"Religion is superstition, monarchy is usurpation, priests are impostors, aristocrats are vampires,
and kings are so many tyrants and monsters."

These ideas flood a mind of his stamp like a vast torrent precipitating itself into a narrow
gorge; they upset it, and, no longer under self-direction, they sweep it away. The man is beside
himself. A plain bourgeois, a common laborer is not transformed with impunity into an apostle
or liberator of the human species.--For, it is not his country that he would save, but the
entire race. Roland, just before the 10th of August, exclaims "with tears in his eyes, should
liberty die in France, she is lost the rest of the world forever! The hopes of philosophers
will perish! The whole earth will succumb to the cruelest tyranny!"[1254]--Grégoire, on the
meeting of the Convention, obtained a decree abolishing royalty, and seemed overcome with the
thought of the immense benefit he had conferred on the human race.

"I must confess," said he, "that for days I could neither eat nor sleep for excess of joy!"

One day a Jacobin in the tribune declared: "We shall be a nation of gods!"--Fancies like these
bring on lunacy, or, at all events, they create disease. "Some men are in a fever all day long,"
said a companion of St. Just; "I had it for twelve years..."[1255] Later on, "when advanced
in life and trying to analyze their experiences, they cannot comprehend it."[1256] Another
tells that, in his case, on a "crisis occurring, there was only a hair's breadth between reason
and madness."--"When St. Just and myself," says Baudot, "discharged the batteries at Wissenbourg,
we were most liberally thanked for it. Well, there was no merit in that; we knew perfectly
well that the shot could not do us any harm."--Man, in this exalted state, is unconscious of
obstacles, and, according to circumstances, rise above or falls below himself, freely spilling
his own blood as well as the blood of others, heroic as a soldier and atrocious as a civilian;
he is not to be resisted in either direction for his strength increases a hundredfold through
his fury, and, on his tearing wildly through the streets, people get out of his way as on the
approach of a mad bull.

If they do not jump aside of their own accord, he will run at them, for he is unscrupulous
as well as furious.--In every political struggle certain kinds of actions are prohibited; at
all events, if the majority is sensible and wishes to act fairly, it repudiates them for itself.
It will not violate any particular law, for, if one law is broken, this tends to the breaking
of others. It is opposed to overthrowing an established government because every interregnum
is a return to barbarism. It is opposed to the element of popular insurrection because, in
such a resort, public power is surrendered to the irrationality of brutal passion. It is opposed
to a conversion of the government into a machine for confiscation and murder because it deems
the natural function of government to be the protection of life and property.--The majority,
accordingly, in confronting the Jacobin, who allows himself all this,[1257] is like a unarmed
man facing one who is fully armed.[1258] The Jacobin, on principle, holds the law in contempt,
for the only law, which he accepts is arbitrary mob rule. He has no hesitation in proceeding
against the government because, in his eyes, the government is a clerk which the people always
has the right to remove. He welcomes insurrection because, through it, the people recover their
sovereignty with no limitations.--Moreover, as with casuists, "the end justifies the means."[1259]
"Let the colonies perish," exclaims a Jacobin in the Constituent Assembly, "rather than sacrifice
a principle." "Should the day come," says St. Just, "when I become convinced that it is impossible
to endow the French with mild, vigorous, and rational ways, inflexible against tyranny and
injustice, that day I will stab myself." Meanwhile he guillotines the others. "We will make
France a graveyard," exclaimed Carrier, "rather than not regenerating it our own way!"[1260]
They are ready to risk the ship in order to seize the helm. From the first, they organize street
riots and jacqueries in the rural districts, they let loose on society prostitutes and ruffians,
vile and savage beasts. Throughout the struggle they take advantage of the coarsest and most
destructive passions, of the blindness, credulity, and rage of an infatuated crowd, of dearth,
of fear of bandits, of rumors of conspiracy, and of threats of invasion. At last, having seized
power through a general upheaval, they hold on to it through terror and executions.--Straining
will to the utmost, with no curb to check it, steadfastly believing in its own right and with
utter contempt for the rights of others, with fanatical energy and the expedients of scoundrels,
a minority may, in employing such forces, easily master and subdue a majority. So true is that,
with faction itself, that victory is always on the side of the group with the strongest faith
and the least scruples. Four times between 1789 and 1794, political gamblers take their seats
at a table where the stake is supreme power, and four times in succession the "Impartiaux,"
the "Feuillants," the "Girondins," and the "Dantonists," form the majority and lose the game.
Four times in succession the majority has no desire to break customary rules, or, at the very
least, to infringe on any rule universally accepted, to wholly disregard the teachings of experience,
the letter of the law, the precepts of humanity, or the suggestions of pity.--The minority,
on the contrary, is determined beforehand to win at any price; its views and opinion are correct,
and if rules are opposed to that, so much the worse for the rules. At the decisive moment,
it claps a pistol to its adversary's head, overturns the table, and collects the stakes.

*****

[Footnote 1201: See the figures further on.]

[Footnote 1202: Mallet du Pan, II. 491. Danton, in 1793, said one day to one of his former
brethren an advocate to the Council.: "The old régime made a great mistake. It brought me up
on a scholarship in Plessis College. I was brought up with nobles, who were my comrades, and
with whom I lived on familiar terms. On completing my studies, I had nothing; I was poor and
tried to get a place. The Paris bar was very expensive, and it required extensive efforts to
be accepted. I could not get into the army, having neither rank nor patronage. There was no
opening for me in the Church. I could purchase no employment, for I hadn't a cent. My old companions
turned their backs on me. I remained without a situation, and only after many long years did
I succeed in buying the post of advocate in the Royal Council. The Revolution came, when I,
and all like me, threw themselves into it. The ancient régime forced us to do so, by providing
a good education for us, without providing an opening for our talents." This applies to Robespierre,
C. Desmoulins, Brissot, Vergniaud, and others.]

[Footnote 1203: Religious order founded in Rome in 1654 by saint Philippe Neri and who dedicated
their efforts to preaching and the education of children. (SR)]

[Footnote 1204: Dauban, "La Demagogie à Paris en 1793," and "Paris in 1794." Read General Henriot's
orders of the day in these two works. Comparton, "Histoire du Tribunal Révolutionaire de Paris,"
a letter by Trinchard, I. 306 (which is here given in the original, on account of the ortography):
"Si tu nest pas toute seulle et que le compagnion soit a travailler tu peus ma chaire amie
ventir voir juger 24 mesieurs tous si devent président ou conselier au parlement de Paris et
de Toulouse. Je t'ainvite a prendre quelque chose aven de venir parcheque nous naurons pas
fini de 3 hurres. Je t'embrase ma chaire amie et épouge."-Ibid. II. 350, examination of André
Chenier.--Wallon, "Hist. Du Trib. Rév.", I, 316. Letter by Simon. "Je te coitte le bonjour
mois est mon est pousse."]

[Footnote 1205: Cf. "The Revolution," page 60.]

[Footnote 1206: Cf. On this point the admissions of the honest Bailly ("Mémoires," passim)]

[Footnote 1207: Rétif de la Bretonne: "Nuits de Paris," 11éme nuit, p. 36. "I lived in Paris
twenty-five years as free as air. All could enjoy as much freedom as myself in two ways--by
living uprightly, and by not writing pamphlets against the ministry. All else was permitted,
my freedom never being interfered with. It is only since the Revolution that a scoundrel could
succeed in having me arrested twice."]

[Footnote 1208: Cf. "The Revolution," vol. I. p.264.]

[Footnote 1209: Moniteur, IV. 495. (Letter from Chartres, May 27, 1790.)]

[Footnote 1210: Sauzay, I.147, 195 218, 711.]

[Footnote 1211: Mercure de France, numbers of August 7, 14, 26, and Dec. 18, 1790.]

[Footnote 1212: Ibid. number of November 26, 1790. Pétion is elected mayor of Paris by 6,728
out of 10,632 voters. "Only 7,000 voters are found at the election of the electors who elect
deputies to the legislature. Primary and municipal meetings are deserted in the same proportion."---Moniteur,
X. 529 (Number of Dec. 4, 1791). Manuel is elected Attorney of the Commune by 3,770 out of
5,311 voters.--Ibid. XI. 378. At the election of municipal officers for Paris, Feb.10 and 11,
1792, only 3,787 voters present themselves; Dussault, who obtains the most votes, has 2,588;
Sergent receives 1,648.--Buchez et Roux, XI. 238 (session of Aug.12, 1791). Speech by Chapelier;
"Archives Nationales," F.6 (carton), 21. Primary meeting of June 13, 1791, canton of Bèze (Cote
d'Or). Out of 460 active citizens, 157 are present, and, on the final ballot, 58.--Ibid., F7,
3235, (January, 1792). Lozerre: "1,000 citizens, at most, out of 25,000, voted in the primary
meetings. At. Saint-Chèly, capital of the district, a few armed ruffians succeed in forming
the primary meeting and in substituting their own election for that of eight parishes, whose
frightened citizens who withdrew from it... At Langogne, chief town of the canton and district,
out of more than 400 active citizens, 22 or 23 at most--just what one would suppose them to
be when their presence drove away the rest--alone formed the meeting."]

[Footnote 1213: This power, with its gratifications, is thus shown, Beugnot, I. 140, 147. "On
the publication of the decrees of August 4, the committee of surveillance of Montigny, reinforced
by all the patriots of the country, came down like a torrent on the barony of Choiseul, and
exterminated all the hares and partridges... They fished out the ponds. At Mandres we find,
in the best room of the inn, a dozen peasants gathered around a table decked with tumblers
and bottles, amongst which we noticed an inkstand, pens, and something resembling a register.--'I
don't know what they are about,' said the landlady, 'but there they are, from morning till
night, drinking, swearing, and storming away at everybody, and they say that they are a committee.'"]

[Footnote 1214: Albert Babeau, I. 206, 242.--The first meeting of the revolutionary committee
of Troyes in the cemetery of St. Jules, August, 1789. This committee becomes the only authority
in the town, after the assassination of the mayor, M. Huez (Sept 10, 1790).]

[Footnote 1215: "The French Revolution," Vol.I. pp. 235, 242, 251.--Buchez et Roux, VI, 179.--Guillon
de Montléon, "Histoire de la Ville de Lyon pendant la Revolution," I. 87.--Guadet, "Les Girondins."]

[Footnote 1216: Michelet, "Histoire de la Révolution," II.47.]

[Footnote 1217: The rules of the Paris club state that members must "labor to establish and
strengthen the Constitution, according to the spirit of the club."]

[Footnote 1218: Mercure de France, Aug.11, 1790.--"Journal de la Société des Amis la Constitution,"
Nov.21, 1790.--Ibid., March, 1791.--Ibid., March, 1791.--Ibid., Aug.14, 1791 (speech by Roederer)--Buchez
et Roux, XI. 481.]

[Footnote 1219: Michelet, II. 407.--Moniteur, XII 347 (May 11, 1792), article by Marie-Joseph
Chénier, according to whom 800 Jacobin clubs exist at this date.--Ibid., XII. 753 (speech by
M. Delfaux session of June 25, 1792).--Roederer, preface to his translation of Hobbes.]

[Footnote 1220: "Les Révolutions de Paris," by Prudhomme, number 173.]

[Footnote 1221: Constant, "Histoire d'un Club Jacobin en province, "passim (Fontainbleau Club,
founded May 5, 1791).--Albert Babeau, I.434 and following pages (foundation of the Troyes Club,
Oct 1790).--Sauzay, I 206 and following pages (foundation of the Besançon Club Aug. 28, 1790).--Ibid.,
214 (foundation of the Pontarlier Club, March, 1791)]

[Footnote 1222: Sauzay, I. 214 (April 2, 1791)]

[Footnote 1223: "Journal des Amis de la Constitution," I. 534 (Letter of the "Café National"
Club of Bordeaux, Jan.29, 1791). Guillon de Monthléon, I. 88.-"The French Revolution," vol.
I. 128, 242.]

[Footnote 1224: Here we have a complete system of propaganda and organizational tactics identical
to those used by the NAZIS, the Marxist-Leninists and other 'children' of the original communist-Jacobins.
(SR.)]

[Footnote 1225: Eugène Hatin, "Histoire politique et littéraire de la presse," IV. 210 (with
Marat's text in "L'Ami L'Ami du peuple," and Fréron's in "l'Orateur du peuple").]

[Footnote 1226: Mercure de France, Nov. 27, 1790.]

[Footnote 1227: Mercure de France, Sept. 3, 1791 (article by Mallet du Pan). "On the strength
of a denunciation, the authors of which I knew, the Luxembourg section on the 21st of June,
the day of the king's departure, sent commissaries and a military detachment to my domicile.
There was no judicial verdict, no legal order, either of police-court, or justice of the peace,
no examination whatever preceding this mission... The employees of the section overhauled my
papers, books and letters, transcribing some of the latter, and carried away copies and the
originals, putting seals on the rest, which were left in charge of two fusiliers."]

[Footnote 1228: Mercure de France, Aug. 27, 1791 (report by Duport-Dutertre, Minister of Justice).--Ibid.,
Cf. numbers of Sept. 8, 1790, and March 12, 1791.]

[Footnote 1229: Sauzay, I.208. (Petition of the officers of the National Guard of Besançon,
and observations of the municipal body, Sept. 15, 1790.--Petition of 500 national guards, Dec.
15, 1790).--Observations of the district directory, which directory, having authorized the
club, avows that "three-quarters" of the national guard and a portion of other citizens "are
quite hostile to it."--Similar petitions at Dax, Chalons-sur-Saône, etc., against the local club.]

[Footnote 1230: "Lettres" (manuscript) of M. Roullé, deputy from Pontivy, to his constituents
(May 1, 1789).]

[Footnote 1231: A rule of the association says: "The object of the association is to discuss
questions beforehand which are to be decided by the National Assembly,... and to correspond
with associations of the same character which may be formed in the kingdom."]

[Footnote 1232: Grégoires, "Mémoires," I. 387.]

[Footnote 1233: Malouet, II. 248. "I saw counselor Duport, who was a fanatic, and not a bad
man, with two or three others like him, exclaim: 'Terror! Terror! What a pity that it has become
necessary!'"]

[Footnote 1234: Lafayette, "Mémoires" (in relation to Messieurs de Lameth and their friends).--According
to a squib of the day: "What Duport thinks, Barnave says and Lameth does"--This trio was named
the Triumvirate. Mirabeau, a government man, and a man to whom brutal disorder was repugnant,
called it the Triumgueusat. (A trinity of shabby fellows)]

[Footnote 1235: Moniteur, V.212, 583. (Report and speech of Dupont de Nemours, sessions of
July 31 and September 7, 1790.)--Vagabonds and ruffians begin to play their parts in Paris
on the 27th of April, 1789 (the Réveillon affair).--Already on the 30th of July, 1789, Rivarol
wrote: "Woe to whoever stirs up the dregs of a nation! The century Enlightenment has not touched
the populace!"--In the preface of his future dictionary, he refers to his articles of this
period: "There may be seen the precautions I took to prevent Europe from attributing to the
French nation the horrors committed by the crowd of ruffians which the Revolution and the gold
of a great personage had attracted to the capital."--"Letter of a deputy to his constituents,"
published by Duprez, Paris, in the beginning of 1790 (cited by M. de Ségur, in the Revue de
France, September 1, 1880). It relates to the maneuvers for forcing a vote in favor of confiscating
clerical property. "Throughout All-Saints' day (November 1, 1789), drums were beaten to call
together the band known here as the Coadjutors of the Revolution. On the morning of November
2, when the deputies went to the Assembly, they found the cathedral square and all the avenues
to the archbishop's palace, where the sessions were held, filled with an innumerable crowd
of people. This army was composed of from 20,000 to 25,000 men, of which the greater number
had no shoes or stockings; woollen caps and rags formed their uniform and they had clubs instead
of guns. They overwhelmed the ecclesiastical deputies with insults, as they passed on their
way, and shouted that they would massacre without mercy all who would not vote for stripping
the clergy... Near 300 deputies who were opposed to the motion did not dare attend the Assembly...
The rush of ruffians in the vicinity of the hall, their comments and threats, excited fears
of this atrocious project being carried out. All who did not feel courageous enough to sacrifice
themselves, avoided going to the Assembly." (The decree was adopted by 378 votes against 346.)]

[Footnote 1236: Cf. "The Ancient Régime," p. 51.]

[Footnote 1237: Malouet, 1.247, 248.--"Correspondence (manuscript) of M. de Staël," Swedish
Ambassador, with his court, copied from the archives at Stockholm by M. Léouzon-le-Duc. Letter
from M. Staël of April 21, 1791: "M. Laclos, secret agent of this wretched prince, (is a) clever
and subtle intriguer." April 24: "His agents are more to be feared than himself. Through his
bad conduct, he is more of a nuisance than a benefit to his party."]

[Footnote 1238: Especially after the king's flight to Varennes, and at the time of the affair
in the Champ de Mars. The petition of the Jacobins was drawn up by Laclos and Brissot.]

[Footnote 1239: Investigations at the Chatelet, testimony of Count d'Absac de Ternay.]

[Footnote 1240: Malouet I. 247, 248. This evidence is conclusive. "Apart from what I saw myself,"
says Malouet, "M. de Montmorin and M. Delessart communicated to me all the police reports of
1789 and 1790."]

[Footnote 1241: Sauzay, II.79 (municipal election, Nov.15, 1791).--III. 221 (mayoralty election,
November, 1792). The half-way moderates had 237 votes, and the sans-culottes, 310.]

[Footnote 1242: Mercure de France, Nov. 26, 1791 (Pétion was elected mayor, Nov.17, by 6,728
votes out of 10,682 voters).--Mortimer-Ternaux, V. 95. (Oct 4, 1792, Pétion was elected mayor
by 13,746 votes out of 14,137 voters. He declines.--Oct. 21, d'Ormessan, a moderate, who declines
to stand, has nevertheless, 4,910 votes. His competitor, Lhuillier, a pure Jacobin, obtains
only 4,896.)]

[Footnote 1243: Albert Babeau, II. 15. (The 32,000 inhabitants of Troyes indicate about 7,000
electors. In December, 1792, Jacquet is elected mayor by 400 votes out of 555 voters. A striking
coincidence is found in there being 400 members of the Troyes club at this time.)--Carnot,
Mémoires," I. 181. "Dr. Bollmann, who passed through Strasbourg in 1792, relates that out of
8,000 qualified citizens, only 400 voters presented themselves.]

[Footnote 1244: Mortimer-Ternaux, VI. 21. In February, 1793, Pache is elected mayor of Paris
by 11,881 votes.--Journal de Paris, number 185. Henriot, July 2, 1793, is elected commander-in-chief
of the Paris national guard, by 9,084, against 6,095 votes given for his competitor, Raffet.
The national guard comprises at this time 110,000 registered members, besides 10,000 gendarmes
and federates. Many of Henriot's partisans, again, voted twice. (Cf. on the elections and the
number of Jacobins at Paris, chapters XI. and XII. of this volume.)]

[Footnote 1245: Michelet, VI. 95. "Almost all (the missionary representatives) were supported
by only, the smallest minority. Baudot, for instance, at Toulouse, in 1793, had but 400 men
for him."]

[Footnote 1246: For example, "Archives Nationales," Fl 6, carton 3. Petition of the inhabitants
of Arnay-le-Duc to the king (April, 1792), very insulting, employing the most familiar language;
about fifty signatures.--Sauzay, III. ch. XXXV. and XXXIV. (details of local elections).--Ibid.,
VII. 687 (letter of Grégoire, Dec. 24, 1796).--Malouet, II. 531 (letter by Malouet, July 22,
1779). Malouet and Grégoire agree on the number 300,000. Marie-Joseph Chénier (Moniteur, XII,
695, 20 avril 1792) carries it up to 400,000.]

[Footnote 1247: Cf. "The French Revolution," Vol. I. book II. Ch. III.]

[Footnote 1248: Cf. "The Ancient Régime," p.352.]

[Footnote 1249: "Memoires de Madame de Sapinaud," p. 18. Reply of M. de Sapinaud to the peasants
of La Vendée, who wished him to act as their general: "My friends, it is the earthen pot against
the iron pot. What could we do? One department against eighty-two--we should be smashed!"]

[Footnote 1250: Malouet, II. 241. "I knew a clerk in one of the bureaus, who, during these
sad days, September, 1792), never missed going. as usual, to copy and add up his registers.
Ministerial correspondence with the armies and the provinces followed its regular course in
regular forms. The Paris police looked after supplies and kept its eye on sharpers, while blood
ran in the streets."--Cf. on this mechanical need and inveterate habit of receiving orders
from the central authority, Mallet du Pan, "Mémoires," 490: "Dumouriez' soldiers said to him:
'F--, papa general, get the Convention to order us to march on Paris and you'll see how we
will make mince-meat of those b--in the Assembly!'"]

[Footnote 1251: With want great interest did any aspiring radical politicians read these lines,
whether the German socialist from Hitler learned so much or Lenin during his long stay in Paris
around 1906. Taine maybe thought that he was arming decent men to better understand and defend
the republic against a new Jacobin onslaught while, in fact, he provided them with an accurate
recipe for repeating the revolution. (SR).]

[Footnote 1252: At. Matthew, 17:20. (SR.)]

[Footnote 1253: Buchez et Roux, XXVIII 55. Letter by Brun-Lafond, a grenadier in the national
guard, July 14, 1793, to a friend in the provinces, in justification of the 31st of May. The
whole of this letter requires to be read. In it are found the ordinary ideas of a Jacobin in
relation to history: "Can we ignore, that it is ever the people of Paris which, through its
murmurings and righteous insurrections against the oppressive system of many of our kings,
has forced them to entertain milder sentiments regarding the relief of the French people, and
principally of the tiller of the soil?.. Without the energy of Paris, Paris and France would
now be inhabited solely by slaves, while this beautiful soil would present an aspect as wild
and deserted as that of the Turkish empire or that of Germany," which has led us "to confer
still greater lustre on this Revolution, by re-establishing on earth the ancient Athenian and
other Grecian republics in all their purity. Distinctions among the early people of the earth
did not exist; early family ties bound people together who had no ancient founders or origin;
they had no other laws in their republics but those which, so to say, inspired them with those
sentiments of fraternity experienced by them in the cradle of primitive populations."]

[Footnote 1254: Barbaroux, "Mémoires" (Ed. Dauban), 336.--Grégoire, "Mémoires," I. 410.]

[Footnote 1255: "La Révolution Française," by Quinet (extracts from the unpublished "Mémoires"
of Baudot), II. "They say that the sans-culottes will go on spilling their blood. This is only
the talk of aristocrats. Can a sans-culotte be reached in that quarter? Is he not invulnerable,
like the gods whom he replaces on this earth?"--Speech by David, in the Convention, on Barra
and Viala: "Under so fine a government woman will bring forth without pain."--Mercier "Le Nouveau
Paris," I. 13. "I heard (an orator) exclaim in one of the sections, to which I bear witness:
'Yes, I would take my own head by the hair, cut it off, and, presenting it to the despot, I
would say to him: Tyrant, behold the act of a free man!'"]

[Footnote 1256: Now, one hundred years later, I consider the tens of thousands of western intellectuals,
who, in their old age, seem unable to understand their longtime fascination with Lenin, Stalin
and Mao, I cannot help to think that history might be holding similar future surprises in store
for us. (SR).]

[Footnote 1257: And my lifetime, our Jacobins the communists, have including in their register
the distortion, the lie and slander as a regular tool of their trade. (SR).]

[Footnote 1258: Lafayette, "Mémoires," I.467 (on the Jacobins of August 10, 1792). "This sect,
the destruction of which was desired by nineteen-twentieths of France."--Durand-Maillan, 49.
The aversion to the Jacobins after June 20, 1792, was general. "The communes of France, everywhere
wearied and dissatisfied with popular clubs, would gladly have got rid of them, that they might
no longer be under their control."]

[Footnote 1259: The words of Leclerc, a deputy of the Lyons committee in the Jacobin Club at
Paris May 12, 1793. "Popular machiavelianism must be established... Everything impure must
disappear off the French soil... I shall doubtless be regarded as a brigand, but there is one
way to get ahead of calumny, and that is to exterminate the calumniators."]

[Footnote 1260: Buchez et Roux, XXXIV. 204 (testimony of François Lameyrie). "Collection of
authentic documents for the History of the Revolution at Strasbourg," II. 210 (speech by Baudot,
Frimaire 19, year II., in the Jacobin club at Strasbourg). "Egoists, the heedless, the enemies
of liberty, the enemies of all nature should not be regarded as her children. Are not all who
oppose the public good, or who do not share it, in the same case? Let us, then, utterly destroy
them... Were they a million, would not one sacrifice the twenty-fourth part of one's self to
get rid of a gangrene which might infect the rest of the body?..."For these reasons, the orator
thinks that every man who is not wholly devoted to the Republic must be put to death. He states
that the Republic should at one blow cause the instant disappearance of every friend to kings
and feudalism.--Beaulieu, "Essai," V. 200. M. d'Antonelle thought, "like most of the revolutionary
clubs, that, to constitute a republic, an approximate equality of property should be established;
and to do this, a third of the population should be suppressed."--"This was the general idea
among the fanatics of the Revolution. "--Larevellière-Lépaux, "Mémoires," I.150 "Jean Bon St.
André... suggested that for the solid foundation of the Republic in France, the population
should be reduced one-half." He is violently interrupted by Larevellière-Lépeaux, but continues
and insists on this.--Guffroy, deputy of the Pas-de-Calais, proposed in his journal a still
larger amputation; he wanted to reduce France to five millions of inhabitants.]

BOOK SECOND. THE FIRST STAGE OF THE CONQUEST.

CHAPTER I. THE JACOBINS COME INTO IN POWER.

     The Elections Of 1791.--Proportion Of Places Gained By Them.

In June, 1791, and during the five following months, the class of active citizens[2101] are
convoked to elect their representatives, which, as we know, according to the law, are of every
kind and degree. In the first place, there are 40,000 members of electoral colleges of the
second degree and 745 deputies. Next, there are one-half of the administrators of 83 departments,
one-half of the administrators of 544 districts, one-half of the administrators of 41,000 communes,
and finally, in each municipality, the mayor and syndic-attorney. Then in each department they
have to elect the president of the criminal court and the prosecuting-attorney, and, throughout
France, officers of the National Guard; in short, almost the entire body of the agents and
depositories of legal authority. The garrison of the public citadel is to be renewed, which
is the second and even the third time since 1789.--At each time the Jacobins have crept into
the place, in small bands, but this time they enter in large bodies. Pétion becomes mayor of
Paris, Manual, syndic-attorney, and Danton the deputy of Manuel. Robespierre is elected prosecuting-attorney
in criminal cases. The very first week,[2102] 136 new deputies enter their names on the club's
register. In the Assembly the party numbers about 250 members. On passing all the posts of
the fortress in review, we may estimate the besiegers as occupying one-third of them, and perhaps
more. Their siege for two years has been carried on with unerring instinct, the extraordinary
spectacle presenting itself of an entire nation legally overcome by a troop of insurgents.[2103]

I.--Their siege operations.

     Means used by them to discourage the majority of electors
     and conservative candidates.--Frequency of elections.--
     Obligation to take the oath.

First of all, they clear the ground, and through the decrees forced out of the Constituent
Assembly, they keep most of the majority away from the polls.--On the one hand, under the pretext
of better ensuring popular sovereignty, the elections are so multiplied, and held so near together,
as to demand of each active citizen one-sixth of his time; such an exaction is very great for
hard-working people who have a trade or any occupation,[2104] which is the case with the great
mass; at all events, with the useful and sane portion of the population. Accordingly, as we
have seen, it stays away from the polls, leaving the field open to idlers or fanatics.[2105]--On
the other hand, by virtue of the constitution, the civic oath, which includes the ecclesiastical
oath, is imposed on all electors, for, if any one takes the former and reserves the latter,
his vote is thrown out: in November, in the Doubs, the municipal elections of thirty-three
communes are invalidated solely on this pretext.[2106] Not only forty thousand ecclesiastics
are thus rendered unsworn (insermentés), but again, all scrupulous Catholics lose the right
of suffrage, these being by far the most numerous in Artois, Doubs and the Jura, in the Lower
and Upper Rhine district,[2107] in the two Sévres and la Vendée, in the Lower Loire, Morbihan,
Finisterre and Côtes du Nord, in Lozère and Ardèche, without mentioning the southern departments.[2108]
Thus, aided by the law which they have rendered impracticable, the Jacobins, on the one hand,
are rid of all sensible voters in advance, counting by millions; and, on the other, aided by
a law which they have rendered intolerant, they are rid of the Catholic vote which counts by
hundreds of thousands. On entering the electoral lists, consequently, thanks to this double
exclusion, they find themselves confronted by only the smallest number of electors.

II.--Annoyances and dangers of public elections.

     The constituents excluded from the Legislative body.

Operations must now be commenced against these, and a first expedient consists in depriving
them of their candidates. The obligation of taking the oath has already partly provided for
this, in Lozère all the officials send in their resignations rather than take the oath;[2109]
here are men who will not be candidates at the coming elections, for nobody covets a place
which he was forced to abandon; in general, the suppression of all party candidatures is effected
in no other way than by making the post of a magistrate distasteful.--The Jacobins have successfully
adhered to this principle by promoting and taking the lead in innumerable riots against the
King, the officials and the clerks, against nobles, ecclesiastics, corn-dealers and land-owners,
against every species of public authority whatever its origin. Everywhere the authorities are
constrained to tolerate or excuse murders, pillage and arson, or, at the very least, insurrections
and disobedience. For two years a mayor runs the risk of being hung on proclaiming martial
law; a captain is not sure of his men on marching to protect a tax levy; a judge on the bench
is threatened if he condemns the marauders who devastate the national forests. The magistrate,
whose duty it is to see that the law is respected, is constantly obliged to strain the law,
or allow it to be strained; if refractory, a summary blow dealt by the local Jacobins forces
his legal authority to yield to their illegal dictate, so that he has to resign himself to
being either their accomplice or their puppet. Such a rôle is intolerable to a man of feeling
or conscience. Hence, in 1790 and 1791, nearly all the prominent and reputable men who, in
1789, had seats in the Hôtels-de-villes, or held command in the National Guard, all country-gentlemen,
chevaliers of St. Louis, old parliamentarians, the upper bourgeoisie and large landed-proprietors,
retire into private life and renounce public functions which are no longer tenable. Instead
of offering themselves to public suffrage they avoid it, and the party of order, far from electing
the magistracy, no longer even finds candidates for it.

Through an excess of precaution, its natural leaders have been legally disqualified, the principal
offices, especially those of deputy and minister, being interdicted beforehand to the influential
men in whom we find the little common sense gained by the French people during the past two
years.-In the month of June, 1779, even after the irreconcilables had parted company with the
"Right," there still remained in the Assembly about 700 members who, adhering to the constitution
but determined to repress disorder, would have formed a sensible legislature had they been
re-elected. All of these, except a very small group of revolutionaries, had learned something
by experience, and, in the last days of their session, two serious events, the king's flight
and the riot in the Champ de Mars, had made them acquainted with the defects of their machinery.
With this executive instrument in their hands for three months, they see that it is racked,
that things are tottering, and that they themselves are being run over by fanatics and the
crowd. They accordingly attempt to put on a drag, and several even think of retracing their
steps.[2110] They cut loose from the Jacobins; of the three or four hundred deputies on the
club list in the Rue St. Honoré[2111] but seven remain; the rest form at the Feuillants a distinct
opposition club, and at their head are the first founders, Duport, the two Lameths, Barnave,
the authors of the constitution, all the fathers of the new régime.[2112] In the last decree
of the Constituent Assembly they loudly condemn the usurpations of popular associations, and
not only interdict to these all meddling in administrative or political matters, but likewise
any collective petition or deputation.[2113]--Here may the friends of order find candidates
whose chances are good, for, during two years and more, each in his own district is the most
conspicuous, the best accredited, and the most influential man there; he stands well with his
electors on account of the popularity of the constitution he has made, and it is very probable
that his name would rally to it a majority of votes.-The Jacobins, however, have foreseen this
danger: Four months earlier,[2114] with the aid of the Court, which never missed an opportunity
to ruin itself and everything else,[2115] they made the most of the grudges of the conservatives
and the weariness of the Assembly. Tired and disgusted, in a fit of mistaken selflessness,
the Assembly, through enthusiasm and taken by surprise, passes an act declaring all its members
ineligible for election to the next Assembly dismissing in advance the leaders of the gentlemen's
party.

III.--The friends of order deprived of the right of free assemblage.

     Violent treatment of their clubs in Paris and the
     provinces.--Legal prevention of conservative associations.

If the latter (the honest men of the Right), in spite of so many drawbacks, attempt a struggle,
they are arrested at the very first step. For, to enter upon an electoral campaign, requires
preliminary meetings for conference and to understand each other, while the faculty of forming
an association, which the law grants them as a right, is actually withheld from them by their
adversaries. As a beginning, the Jacobins hooted at and "stone" the members of the "Right"[2116]
holding their meetings in the Salon français of the Rue Royale, and, according to the prevailing
rule, the police tribunal, "considering that this assemblage is a cause of disturbance, that
it produces gatherings in the street, that only violent means can be employed to protect it,"
orders its dissolution.[2117]--Towards the month of August, 1790, a second club is organized,
and, this time, composed of the wisest and most liberal men. Malouet and Count Clermont-Tonnerre
are at the head of it. It takes the name of "Friends of a Monarchical Constitution," and is
desirous of restoring public order by maintaining the reforms which have been reached. All
formalities on its part have been complied with. There are already about 800 members in Paris.
Subscriptions flow into its treasury. The provinces send in numerous adhesions, and, what is
worse than all, bread is distributed by them at a reduced price, by which the people, probably,
will be conciliated. Here is a center of opinion and influence, analogous to that of the Jacobin
club, which the Jacobins cannot tolerate.[2118] M. de Clermont-Tonnerre having leased the summer
Vauxhall, a captain in the National Guard notifies the proprietor of it that if he rents it,
the patriots of the Palais-Royal will march to it in a body, and close it; fearing that the
building will be damaged, he cancels the lease, while the municipality, which fears skirmishes,
orders a suspension of the meetings. The club makes a complaint and follows it up, while the
letter of the law is so plain that an official authorization of the club is finally granted.
Thereupon the Jacobin newspapers and stump--speakers let loose their fury against a future
rival that threatens to dispute their empire. On the 23rd of January, 1791, Barnave, in the
National Assembly, employing metaphorical language apt to be used as a death-shout, accuses
the members of the new club "of giving the people bread that carries poison with it." Four
days after this, M. Clermont-Tonnerre's dwelling is assailed by an armed throng. Malouet, on
leaving it, is almost dragged from his carriage, and the crowd around him cry out, "There goes
the bastard who denounced the people!"--At length, its founders, who, out of consideration
for the municipality, have waited two months, hire another hall in the Rue des Petites-Ecuries,
and on the 28th of March begin their sessions. "On reaching it," writes one of them, "we found
a mob composed of drunkards, screaming boys, ragged women, soldiers exciting them on, and especially
those frightful hounds, armed with stout, knotty cudgels, two feet long, which are excellent
skull-crackers."[2119] The thing was made up beforehand. At first there were only three or
four hundred of them, and, ten minutes after, five or six hundred; in a quarter of an hour,
there are perhaps four thousand flocking in from all sides; in short, the usual make-up of
an insurrection. "The people of the quarter certified that they did not recognize one of the
faces." Jokes, insults, cuffs, clubbings, and saber-cuts,--the members of the club "who agreed
to come unarmed" being dispersed, while several are knocked down, dragged by the hair, and
a dozen or fifteen more are wounded. To justify the attack, white cockades are shown, which,
it is pretended, were found in their pockets. Mayor Bailly arrives only when it is all over,
and, as a measure of "public order," the municipal authorities have the club of Constitutional
Monarchists closed for good.

Owing to these outrages by the faction, with the connivance of the authorities, other similar
clubs are suppressed in the same way. There are a good many of them, and in the principal towns--"Friends
of Peace," "Friends of the Country," "Friends of the King, of Peace, and of Religion," "Defenders
of Religion, Persons, and Property". Magistrates and officers, the most cultivated and polished
people, are generally members; in short, the élite of the place. Formerly, meetings took place
for conversation and debate, and, being long-established, the club naturally passes over from
literature to politics.--The watch-word against all these provincial clubs is given from the
Rue St. Honoré.[2120] "They are centers of conspiracy, and must be looked after" forthwith,
and be at once trodden out.--At one time, as at Cahors,[2121] a squad of the National Guard,
on its return from an expedition against the neighboring gentry, and to finish its task breaks
in on the club, "throws its furniture out of the windows and demolishes the house."--At another
time, as at Perpignan, the excited mob surrounds the club, dancing a fandango, and yell out,
to the lantern! The club-house is sacked, while eighty of its members, covered with bruises,
are shut up in the citadel for their safety.[2122]--At another time, as at Aix, the Jacobin
club insults its adversaries on their own premises and provokes a scuffle, whereupon the municipality
causes the doors of the assailed club to be walled up and issues warrants of arrest against
its members.--Always punishment awaits them for whatever violence they have to submit to. Their
mere existence seems an offense. At Grenoble, they scarcely assemble before they are dispersed.
The fact is, they are suspected of "incivism;" their intentions may not be right; in any event,
they cause a division of the place into two camps, and that is enough. In the department of
Gard, their clubs are all broken up, by order of the department, because "they are centers
of malevolence." At Bordeaux, the municipality, considering that "alarming reports are current
of priests and privileged persons returning to town," prohibits all reunions, except that of
the Jacobin club.--Thus, "under a system of liberty of the most exalted kind, in the presence
of the famous Declaration of the Rights of Man which legitimates whatever is not unlawful,"
and which postulates equality as the principle of the French constitution, whoever is not a
Jacobin is excluded from common rights. An intolerant club sets itself up as a holy church,
and proscribes others which have not received from it "orthodox baptism, civic inspiration,
and the aptitude of languages." To her alone belongs the right of assemblage, and the right
of making proselytes. Conservative, thoughtful men in all towns throughout the kingdom are
forbidden to form electoral committees, to possess a tribune, a fund, subscribers and adherents,
to cast the weight of their names and common strength into the scale of public opinion, to
gather around their permanent nucleus the scattered multitude of sensible people, who would
like to escape from the Revolution without falling back into the ancient régime. Let them whisper
amongst themselves in corners, and they may still be tolerated, but woe to them if they would
leave their lonely retreat to act in concert, to canvass voters, and support a candidate. Up
to the day of voting they must remain in the presence of their combined, active, and obstreperous
adversaries, scattered, inert, and mute.

IV. Turmoil of the elections of 1790.--Elections in 1791.--Effect of the King's flight.--Domiciliary
visits.--Montagne during the electoral period.

Will they at least be able to vote freely on that day? They are not sure of it, and, judging
by occurrences during the past year, it is doubtful.--In April, 1790, at Bois d'Aisy, in Burgundy,
M. de Bois d'Aisy, a deputy, who had returned from Paris to deposit his vote,[2123] was publicly
menaced. He was informed that nobles and priests must take no part m the elections, while many
were heard to say, in his hearing, that in order to prevent this it would be better to hang
him. Not far off; at Ste. Colombe, M. de Viteaux was driven out of the electoral assembly,
and then put to death after three hours of torture. The same thing occurred at Semur; two gentlemen
were knocked down with clubs and stones, another saved himself with difficulty, and a curé
died after being stabbed six times.--A warning for priests and for gentlemen: they had better
not vote, and the same good advice may be given to dealers in grain, to land-owners, and every
other suspected person. For this is the day on which the people recover their sovereignty;
the violent believe that they have the right to do exactly what suits them, nothing being more
natural than to exclude candidates in advance who are distrusted, or electors who do not vote
as they ought to.--At Villeneuve-St.-Georges, near Paris,[2124] a barrister, a man of austere
and energetic character, is about to be elected judge by the district electors; the proletariat,
however, mistrust a judge likely to condemn marauders, and forty or fifty vagabonds collect
together under the windows and cry out: "We don't want him elected." The curé of Crosne, president
of the electoral assembly, informs them in vain that the assembled electors represent 90 communes,
nearly 100,000 inhabitants, and that "40 persons should not prevail against 100,000. Shouts
redouble and the electors renounce their candidate.--At Pau, patriots among the militia[2125]
forcibly release one of their imprisoned leaders, circulate a list for proscriptions, attack
a poll-teller with their fists and afterwards with sabers, until the proscribed hide themselves
away; on the following day "nobody is disposed to attend the electoral assembly."----Things
are much worse in 1791. In the month of June, just at the time of the opening of the primary
meetings, the king has fled to Varennes, the Revolution seems compromised, civil war and a
foreign war loom up on the horizon like two ghosts; the National Guard had everywhere taken
up arms, and the Jacobins were making the most of the universal panic for their own advantage.
To dispute their votes is no longer the question; it is not well to be visible: among so many
turbulent gatherings a popular execution is soon over. The best thing now for royalists, constitutionalists,
conservatives and moderates of every kind, for the friends of law and of order, is to stay
at home--too happy if they may be allowed to remain there, to which the armed rabble agrees;
on the condition of frequently paying them visits.

Consider their situation during the whole of the electoral period, in a calm district, and
judge of the rest of France by this corner of it. At Mortagne,[2126] a small town of 6,000
souls, the laudable spirit of 1789 still existed up to the journey to Varennes. Among the forty
or fifty noble families were a good many liberals. Here, as elsewhere among the gentry, the
clergy and the middle class, the philosophic education of the eighteenth century had revived
the old provincial spirit of initiative, and the entire upper class had zealously and gratuitously
undertaken the public duties which it alone could perform well. District presidents, mayors,
and municipal officers, were all chosen from among ecclesiastics and the nobles; the three
principal officers of the National Guard were chevaliers of St. Louis, while other grades were
filled by the leading people of the community. Thus had the free elections placed authority
in the hands of the socially superior, the new order of things resting on the legitimate hierarchy
of conditions, educations, and capacities.--But for six months the club, formed out of "a dozen
hot-headed, turbulent fellows, under the presidency and in the hands of a certain Rattier,
formerly a cook," worked upon the population and the rural districts. Immediately on the receipt
of the news of the King's flight, the Jacobins "give out that nobles and priests had supplied
him with money for his departure, to bring about a counter-revolution." One family had given
such an amount, and another so much; there was no doubt about it; the precise figures are given,
and given for each family according to its known resources.--Forthwith, "the principal clubbists,
associated with the dubious part of the National Guard," spread through the streets in squads:
the houses of the nobles and of other suspected persons are invaded. All the arms, "guns, pistols,
swords, hunting-knives, and sword-canes," are carried off. Every hole and corner is ransacked;
they make the inmates open, or they force open, secretaries and clothes-presses in search of
ammunition, the search extending "even to the ladies' toilette-tables". By way of precaution
"they break sticks of pomatum in two, presuming that musket-balls are concealed in them, and
they take away hair-powder under the pretext that it is either colored or masked gunpowder."
Then, without disbanding, the troop betakes itself to the environs and into the country, where
it operates with the same promptness in the chateaux, so that "in one day all honest citizens,
those with the most property and furniture to protect, are left without arms at the mercy of
the first robber that comes along." All reputed aristocrats are disarmed. As such are considered
those who "disapprove of the enthusiasm of the day, or who do not attend the club, or who harbor
any unsworn ecclesiastic," and, first of all, "the officers of the National Guard who are nobles,
beginning with the commander and his entire staff."--The latter allow their swords to be taken
without resistance, and with a forbearance and patriotic spirit of which their brethren everywhere
furnish an example "they are obliging enough to remain at their posts so as not to disorganize
the army, hoping that this frenzy will soon come to an end," contenting themselves with making
their complaint to the department.--But in vain the department orders their arms to be restored
to them. The clubbists refuse to give them up so long as the king refuses to accept the Constitution;
meanwhile they do not hesitate to say that "at the very first gun on the frontier, they will
cut the throats of all the nobles and unsworn priests."--After the royal oath to the Constitution
is taken, the department again insists, but no attention is paid to it. On the contrary, the
National Guard, dragging cannons along with them, purposely station themselves before the mansions
of the unarmed gentry; the ladies of their families are followed in the streets by urchins
who sing ÇA IRA[2127] in their faces, and, in the final refrain, they mention them by name
and promise them the lantern; "not one of them could invite a dozen of his friends to supper
without incurring the risk of an uproar."--On the strength of this, the old chiefs of the National
Guard resign, and the Jacobins turn the opportunity to account. In contempt of the law the
whole body of officers is renewed, and, as peaceable folks dare not deposit their votes, the
new staff "is composed of maniacs, taken for the most part, from the lowest class." With this
purged militia the club expels nuns, drives off unsworn priests, organizes expeditions in the
neighborhood, and goes so far as to purify suspected municipalities.[2128]--So many acts of
violence committed in town and country, render town and country uninhabitable, and for the
élite of the propriety owners, or for well-bred persons, there is no longer any asylum but
Paris. After the first disarmament seven or eight families take refuge there, and a dozen or
fifteen more join them after a threat of having their throats cut; after the religious persecution,
unsworn ecclesiastics, the rest of the nobles, and countless other townspeople, "even with
little means," betake themselves there in a mass. There, at least, one is lost in the crowd;
one is protected by an incognito against the outrages of the commonalty; one can live there
as a private individual. In the provinces even civil rights do not exist; how could any one
there exercise political rights? "All honest citizens are kept away from the primary meetings
by threats or maltreatment.. . The electoral battlefield is left for those who pay forty-five
sous of taxes, more than one-half of them being registered on the poor list."--Thus the elections
are decided beforehand! The former cook is the one who authorizes or creates candidatures,
and on the election of the department deputies at the county town, the electors elected are,
like himself, true Jacobins.[2129]

V.--Intimidation and withdrawal of the Conservatives.

     Popular outbreaks in Burgundy, Lyonnais, Provence, and the
     large cities.--Electoral proceedings of the Jacobins;
     examples at Aix, Dax, and Montpellier.--Agitators go
     unpunished--Denunciations by name.--Manoeuvres with the
     peasantry.--General tactics of the Jacobins.

Such is the pressure under which voting takes place in France during the summer and fall of
1791. Domiciliary visits[2130] and disarmament everywhere force nobles and ecclesiastics, landed
proprietors and people of culture, to abandon their homes, to seek refuge in the large towns
and to emigrate,[2131] or, at least, confine themselves strictly to private life, to abstain
from all propaganda, from every candidature, and from all voting. It would be madness to be
seen in so many cantons where searches end in a riot; in Burgundy and the Lyonnais, where castles
are sacked, where aged gentlemen are mauled and left for dead, where M. de Guillin has just
been assassinated and cut to pieces; at Marseilles, where conservative party leaders are imprisoned,
where a regiment of Swiss guards under arms scarcely suffices to enforce the verdict of the
court which sets them at liberty, where, if any indiscreet person opposes Jacobin resolutions
his mouth is closed by being notified that he will be buried alive; at Toulon, where the Jacobins
shoot down all conservatives and the regular troops, where M. de Beaucaire, captain in the
navy, is killed by a shot in the back, where the club, supported by the needy, by sailors,
by navvies, and "vagabond peddlers," maintains a dictatorship by right of conquest; at Brest,
at Tulle, at Cahors, where at this very moment gentlemen and officers are massacred in the
street. It is not surprising that honest people turn away from the ballot-box as from a center
of cut-throats.--Nevertheless, let them come if they like; it will be easy to get rid of them.
At Aix, the assessor whose duty it is to read the electors' names is informed that "the names
should be called out by an unsullied mouth, that, being an aristocrat and fanatical, he could
neither speak nor vote," and, without further ceremony, they put him out of the room.[2132]
The process is an admirable one for converting a minority into a majority and yet here is another,
still more effective.--At Dax, the Feuillants, taking the title of "Friends of the French Constitution,"
have split up with the Jacobins,[2133] and, moreover, they insist on excluding from the National
Guard "foreigners without property or position," the passive citizens who are admitted into
it in spite of the law, who usurp the right of voting and who "daily affront tranquil inhabitants."
Consequently, on election day, in the church where the primary meeting is held, two of the
Feuillants, Laurède, formerly collector of the vingtièmes,, and Brunache, a glazier, propose
to exclude an intruder, a servant on wages. The Jacobins at once rush forward. Laurède is pressed
back on the holy-water basin and wounded on the head; on trying to escape he is seized by the
hair, thrown down, pierced in the arm with a bayonet, put in prison, and Brunache along with
him. Eight days afterwards, at the second meeting none are present but Jacobins; naturally,
"they are all elected". They form the new municipality, which, notwithstanding the orders of
the department, not only refuses to liberate the two prisoners, but throws them into a dungeon.--At
Montpellier, the delay in the operation is greater, but it is only the more complete. The votes
are deposited, the ballot-boxes closed and sealed up and the conservatives obtain a majority.
Thereupon the Jacobin club, with the Society of the "iron-clubs," calling itself the Executive
power, betake themselves in force to the sectional meetings, burn one of the ballots, use firearms
and kill two men. To restore order the municipality stations each company of the National Guard
at its captain's door, The moderates among them naturally obey orders, but the violent party
do not. They overrun the town, numbering about 2,000 inhabitants, enter the houses, kill three
men in the street or in their domiciles, and force the administrative body to suspend its electoral
assemblies. In addition to this they require the disarmament "of the aristocrats," and this
not being done soon enough, they kill an artisan who is walking in the street with his mother,
cut off his head, bear it aloft in triumph, and suspend it in front of his dwelling. The authorities
are now convinced and accordingly decree a disarmament, and the victors parade the streets
in a body. In exuberance or as a precaution, they fire, as they pass along, at the windows
of suspected houses and happen to kill an additional man and woman. During the three following
days six hundred families emigrate, while the authorities report that everything is going on
well, and that order is restored. "The elections," they say, "are now proceeding in the quietest
manner since the ill-intentioned voluntarily keeping away from them, a large number having
left the town. "[2134] A void is created around the ballot-box and this is called the unanimity
of voters.--The effect of such assassinations is great and only a few are required; especially
when they go unpunished, which is always the case. Henceforth all that the Jacobins have to
do is to threaten; people no longer resist them for they know that it costs too much to face
them down. They do not care to attend electoral meetings where they meet insult and danger;
they acknowledge defeat at the start. Have not the Jacobins irresistible arguments, without
taking blows into account? At Paris,[2135] Marat in three successive numbers of his paper has
just denounced by name "the rascals and thieves" who canvass for electoral nominations, not
the nobles and priests but ordinary citizens, lawyers, architects, physicians, jewellers, stationers,
printers, upholsterers and other artisans, each name being given in full with the professions,
addresses and one of the following qualifications, "hypocrite (tartufe), immoral, dishonest,
bankrupt, informer, usurer, cheat," not to mention others that I cannot write down. It must
be noted that this slanderous list may become a proscriptive list, and that in every town and
village in France similar lists are constantly drawn up and circulated by the local dub, which
enables us to judge whether the struggle between it and its adversaries is a fair one.-As to
rural electors, it has suitable means for persuading them, especially in the innumerable cantons
ravaged or threatened by the jacqueries, (country-riots) or, for example, in Corrèze, where
"the whole department is smattered with insurrections and devastation's, and where nobody talks
of anything but of hanging the officers who serve papers."[2136] Through-out the electoral
operations the sittings of the dub are permanent; "its electors are incessantly summoned to
its meetings;" at each of these "the main question is the destruction of fish-ponds and rentals,
their principal speakers summing it all up by saying that none ought to be paid." The majority
of electors, composed of rustics, are found to be sensitive to speeches like this; all its
candidates are obliged to express themselves against fishponds and rentals; its deputies and
the public prosecuting attorney are nominated on this profession of faith; in other words,
to be elected, the Jacobins promise to greedy tenants the incomes and property of their owners.--We
already see in the proceedings by which they secure one-third of the offices in 1791 the germ
of the methods by which they will secure the whole of them in 1792; in this first electoral
campaign their acts indicate not merely their maxims and policy but, again, the condition,
education, spirit and character of the men whom they place in power locally as well as at the
capital.

*****

[Footnote 2101: Law of May 28, 29, 1791 (according to official statements, the total of active
citizens amounted to 4,288,360).--Laws of July 23, Sept. 12, Sept. 29, 1791.--Buchez et Roux,
XII. 310.]

[Footnote 2102: Bucher Ct Roux, XII. 33.--Mortimer-Ternaux, "Histoire de la Terreur," II. 205,
348.--Sauzay, II. ch. XVIII--Albert Babeau, I. ch. XX.]

[Footnote 2103: Lenin repeated this performance in 1917 and Stalin attempted to do the same
in the rest of the World. (SR)..]

[Footnote 2104: The following letter, by Camille Desmoulins (April 3, 1792), shows at once
the time consumed by public affairs, the sort of attraction they had, and the kind of men which
they diverted from their business. "I have gone back to my old profession of the law, to which
I give nearly all the time which my municipal or electoral functions, and the Jacobins (club),
allow me--that is to say, very little. It is very disagreeable to me to come down to pleading
bourgeois cases after having managed interests of such importance, and the affairs of the government,
in the face of all Europe."]

[Footnote 2105: I cannot help but think of the willful proliferation of idle functionaries,
pensioners and other receivers of public funds which today vote for the party which represents
their interests. (SR.)]

[Footnote 2106: Sauzay, II. 83-89 and 123. A resolution of the inhabitants of Chalèze, who,
headed by their municipal officers, declare themselves unanimously "non-conformists," and demand
"the right of using a temple for the exercise of their religious opinions, belonging to them
and built with their contributions" On the strength of this, the municipal officers of Chalèze
are soundly rated by the district administration, which thus states what principles are: "Liberty,
indefinite for the private individual, must be restricted for the public man whose opinions
must conform to the law: otherwise,.. he must renounce all public functions."]

[Footnote 2107: Archives Nationales," F7, 3,253 (letter of the department directory, April
7, 1792). "On the 25th of January, in our report to the National Assembly, we stated the almost
general opposition which the execution of the laws relating to the clergy has found in this
department... nine-tenths, at least, of the Catholics refusing to recognize the sworn priests.
The teachers, influenced by their old curés or vicars, are willing to take the civic oath,
but they refuse to recognize their legitimate pastors and attend their services. We are, therefore,
obliged to remove them, and to look out for others to replace them. The citizens of a large
number of the communes, persisting in trusting these, will lend no assistance whatever to the
election of the new ones; the result is, that we are obliged, in selecting these people, to
refer the matter to persons whom we scarcely know, and who are scarcely better known to the
directories of the district. As they are elected against the will of the citizens, they do
not gain their confidence, and draw their salaries from the commune treasury, without any advantage
to public instruction,"]

[Footnote 2108: Mercure de France, Sep. 3, 1791. "The right of attending primary meetings is
that of every citizen who pays a tax of three livres; owing to the violence to which opinions
are subject, more than one-half of the French are compelled to stay away from these reunions,
which are abandoned to persons who have the least interest in maintaining public order and
in securing stable laws, with the least property, and who pay the fewest taxes."]

[Footnote 2109: "The French Revolution," Vol. I. p. 182 and following pages.]

[Footnote 2110: "Correspondence of M. de Staël" (manuscript), Swedish ambassador, with his
court, Sept 4, 1791. "The change in the way of thinking of the democrats is extraordinary;
they now seem convinced that it is impossible to make the Constitution work. Barnave, to my
own knowledge, has declared that the influence of assemblies in the future should be limited
to a council of notables, and that all power should be in the government"]

[Footnote 2111: Ibid. Letter of July 17, 1791. "All the members of the Assembly, with the exception
of three or four, have passed a resolution to separate from the Jacobins; they number about
300."--The seven deputies who remain at the Jacobin Club, are Robespierre, Pétion, Grégoire,
Buzot, Coroller, and Abbé Royer.]

[Footnote 2112: "Les Feuillants" Was a political club consisting of constitutional monarchists
who held their meetings in the former Feuillants monastery in Paris from 1791 to 1792. (SR).]

[Footnote 2113: Decree of Sept 29, 30, 1791, with report and instructions of the Committee
on the Constitution.]

[Footnote 2114: Decree of May 17, 1791.--Malouet, XII. 161. "There was nothing left to us but
to make one great mistake, which we did not fail to do."]

[Footnote 2115: A few months after this, on the election of a mayor for Paris, the court voted
against Lafayette, and for Pétion]

[Footnote 2116: M. de Montlosier, "Mémoires," II. 309. "As far as concerns myself, truth compels
me to say, that I was stuck on the head by three carrots and two cabbages only."--Archives
of the prefecture of police (decisions of the police court, May 15, 1790). Moniteur, V. 427.
"The prompt attendance of the members at the hour of meeting, in spite of the hooting and murmurings
of the crowd, seemed to convince the people that this was yet another conspiracy against liberty."]

[Footnote 2117: This is what is, today in 1998, taking place whenever any political faction,
disliked by the Socialists, try to arrange a meeting. (SR).]

[Footnote 2118: Malout, II. 50.--Mercure de France, Jan. 7, Feb. 5, and April 9, 1791 (letter
of a member of the Monarchical Club)]

[Footnote 2119: Ferrières, II. 222. "The Jacobin Club sent five or six hundred trusty men,
armed with clubs," besides "about a hundred national guards, and some of the Palais-Royal prostitutes."]

[Footnote 2120: "Journal des Amis de la Constitution." Letter of the Café National! Club at
Bordeaux, Jan. 20, 1791.--Letters of the "Friends of the Constitution," at Brives and Cambray,
Jan. 19, 1791.]

[Footnote 2121: "The French Revolution," I. pp. 243, 324.]

[Footnote 2122: Mercure de France, Dec.18, 1790, Jan. 17, June 8, and July 14, 1791.--Moniteur,
VI. 697.--"Archives Nationales," F7, 3,193. Letter from the Directory of the department of
Aveyron, April 20, 1792. Narrative of events after the end of 1790.--May 22, 1791, the club
of "The Friends of Order and Peace" is burned by the Jacobins, the fire lasting all night and
a part of the next day. (Official report of the Directory of Milhau, May 22, 1791).]

[Footnote 2123: "The French Revolution," I. 256, 307.]

[Footnote 2124: Mercure de France, Dec. 14, 1790 (letter from Villeneuve-St.-Georges, Nov.29).]

[Footnote 2125: "Archives Nationales," II. 1,453. Correspondence of M. Bercheny. Letter from
Pau, Feb. 7, 1790. "No one has any idea of the actual state of things, in this once delightful
town. People are cutting each other's throats. Four duels have taken place within 48 hours,
and ten or a dozen good citizens have been obliged to hide themselves for three days past"]

[Footnote 2126: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3,249. Memorial on the actual condition of the town
and district of Mortagne, department of Orne (November, 1791).]

[Footnote 2127: Revolutionary song with the refrain: "Les aristocrates, à la lanterne, tous
les aristocrates on les pendra" (all the aristocrats will hang). (SR)]

[Footnote 2128: On the 15th of August, 1791, the mother-superior of the Hôtel-Dieu hospital
is forcibly carried off and placed in a tavern, half a league from the town, while the rest
of the nuns are driven out and replaced by eight young girls from the town. Among other motives
that require notice is the hostility of two pharmacists belonging to the club; in the Hotel-Dieu
the nuns, keeping a pharmacy from which they sold drugs at cost and thereby brought themselves
into competition with the two pharmacists.]

[Footnote 2129: Cf. "Archives Nationales," DXXIX. 13. Letter of the municipal officers and
notables of Champoeuil to the administrators of Seine-et-Oise, concerning elections, June 17,
1791.--Similar letters, from various other parishes, among them that of Charcon, June 16: "They
have the honor to inform you that, at the time of the preceding primary meetings, they were
exposed to the greatest danger; that the curé of Charcon, their pastor, was repeatedly stabbed
with a bayonet, the marks of which he will carry to his grave. The mayor, and several other
inhabitants of Charcon, escaped the same peril with difficulty."--Ibid., letters from the administrators
of Hautes-Alpes to the National Assembly (September, 1791), on the disturbances in the electoral
assembly of Gap, August 29, 1791.]

[Footnote 2130: Police searches of private homes. (SR).]

[Footnote 2131: "The French Revolution," pp. 159, 160, 310, 323, 324.--Lauvergne, "Histoire
du département du Var," (August 23).]

[Footnote 2132: '"Archives Nationales," F7, 3,198, deposition of Vérand-Icard, an elector at
Arles, Sep. 8, 1791.--Ibid., F7, 3,195. Letter of the administrators of the Tarascon district,
Dec. 8, 1791. Two parties confront each other at the municipal elections of Barbantane, one
headed by the Abbé Chabaud, brother of one of the Avignon brigands, composed of three or four
townsmen, and of "the most impoverished in the country," and the other, three times as numerous,
comprising all the land-owners, the substantial métayers and artisans, and all "who are most
interested in a good administration" The question is, whether the Abbé Chabaud is to be mayor.
The elections took place Dec.5th, 1791. Here is the official report of the acting mayor: mayor:
"We, Pierre Fontaine, mayor, addressed the rioters, to induce them to keep the peace. At this
very moment, the said Claude Gontier, alias Baoque, struck us with his fist on the left eye,
which bruised us considerably, and on account of which we are almost blind, and, conjointly
with others, jumped upon us, threw us down, and dragged us by the hair, continuing to strike
us, from in front of the church door, till we came in front of the door, the town hall."]

[Footnote 2133: Ibid., F7, 3,229. Letters of M. de Laurède, June 18, 1791; from the directory
of the department, June 8, July 31, and Sept. 22, 1791; from the municipality, July 15, 1791.
The municipality "leaves the release of the prisoners in suspense," for six months, because,
it says, the people is disposed to "insurrectionise against their discharge."--Letter of many
of the national guard, stating that the factions form only a part of it.]

[Footnote 2134: Mercure de France, Dec. 10, 1791, letter from Montpellier, dated Nov. 17, 1791.--"
Archives Nationales," F7, 3,223. Extracts from letters, on the incidents of Oct. 9 and 12,
1791. Petition by Messrs. Théri and Devon, Nov. 17, 1791. Letter addressed them to the Minister,
Oct. 25. Letters of M. Dupin, syndical attorney of the department, to the Minister, Nov.14
and 15, and Dec. 26, 1791 (with official reports).--Among those assassinated on the 14th and
15th of November, we find a jeweler, an attorney, a carpenter, and a dyer. "This painful Scene,"
writes the syndic attorney, "has restored quiet to the town."]

[Footnote 2135: Buchez et Roux, X. 223 (l'Ami du Peuple, June 17, 19, 21, 1791)]

[Footnote 2136: "'Archives Nationales,' F7, 3204. letter by M. Melon de Tradou, royal commissary
at Tulle, Sept. 8, 1791]

CHAPTER II.

I.--Composition of the Legislative Assembly.

     Social rank of the Deputies. Their inexperience,
     incompetence, and prejudices.

If it be true that a nation should be represented by its superior men, France was strangely
represented during the Revolution. From one Assembly to another we see the level steadily declining;
especially is the fall very great from the Constituent to the Legislative Assembly. The actors
entitled to perform withdraw just as they begin to understand their parts; and yet more, they
have excluded themselves from the theatre, while the stage is surrendered to their substitutes.

"The preceding Assembly," writes an ambassador,[2201] "contained men of great talent, large
fortune, and honorable name, a combination which had an imposing effect on the people, although
violently opposed to personal distinctions. The actual Assembly is but little more than a council
of lawyers, got together from every town and village in France."

In actual fact, out of 745 deputies, indeed, "400 lawyers belong, for the most part, to the
dregs of the profession"; there are about twenty constitutional priests, "as many poets and
literary men of but little reputation, almost all without any fortune," the greater number
being less than thirty years old, sixty being less than twenty-six,[2202] nearly all of them
trained in the clubs and the popular assemblies". There is not one noble or prelate belonging
to the ancient régime, no great landed proprietor,[2203] no head of a service, no eminent specialist
in diplomacy, in finance, in the administrative or military arts. But three general officers
are found there, and these are of the lower rank,[2204] one of them having held his appointment
but three months, and the other two being wholly unknown.--At the head of the diplomatic committee
stands Brissot, itinerant journalist, lately traveling about in England and the United States.
He is supposed to be competent in the affairs of both worlds; in reality he is one of those
presuming, threadbare, talkative fellows, who, living in a garret, lecture foreign cabinets
and reconstruct all Europe. Things, to them, seem to be as easily worked out as words and sentences:
one day,[2205] to entice the English into an alliance with France, Brissot proposes to place
two towns, Dunkirk and Calais, in their hands as security; another day, he proposes "to make
a descent on Spain, and, at the same time, to send a fleet to conquer Mexico."--The leading
member on the committee on finances is Cambon, a merchant from Montpellier, a good accountant,
who, at a later period, is to simplify accounting and regulate the Grand Livre of the public
debt, which means public bankruptcy. Mean-while, he hastens this on with all his might by encouraging
the Assembly to undertake the ruinous and terrible war that is to last for twenty-three years;
according to him, "there is more money than is needed for it."[2206] In actual fact, the guarantee
of assignats is used up and the taxes do not come in. They live only on the paper money they
issue. The assignats lose forty per centum, and the ascertained deficit for 1792 is four hundred
millions.[2207] But this revolutionary financier relies upon the confiscations which he instigates
in France, and which are to be set agoing in Belgium; here lies all his invention, a systematic
robbery on a grand scale within and without the kingdom.

As to the legislators and manufacturers of constitutions, we have Condorcet, a cold-blooded
fanatic and systematic leveler, satisfied that a mathematical method suits the social sciences
fed on abstractions, blinded by formuloe, and the most chimerical of perverted intellects.
Never was a man versed in books more ignorant of mankind; never did a lover of scientific precision
better succeed in changing the character of facts. It was he who, two days before the 20th
of June, amidst the most brutal public excitement, admired "the calmness" and rationality of
the multitude; "considering the way people interpret events, it might be supposed that they
had given some hours of each day to the study of analysis." It is he who, two days after the
20th of June, extolled the red cap in which the head of Louis XVI. had been muffled. "That
crown is as good as any other. Marcus Aurelius would not have despised it."[2208]--Such is
the discernment and practical judgment of the leaders; from these one can form an opinion of
the flock. It consists of novices arriving from the provinces and bringing with them the principles
and prejudices of the newspaper. So remote from the center, having no knowledge of general
affairs or of their unity, they are two years behind their brethren of the Constituent Assembly.
They are described in the following manner by Malouet,[2209]

"Most of them, without having decided against a monarchy, had decided against the court, the
aristocracy, and the clergy, ever imagining conspiracies and believing that defense consisted
solely in attack. There were still many men of talent among them, but with no experience; they
even lacked that which we had obtained. Our patriot deputies, in great part, were aware of
their errors; the novices were not, they were ready to begin all over again."

Moreover, they have their own political bent, for nearly all of them are upstarts of the new
régime. We find in their ranks 264 department administrators, 109 district administrators,
125 justices and prosecuting-attorneys, 68 mayors and town officers, besides about twenty officers
of the National Guard, constitutional bishops and curés. The whole amounting to 566 of the
elected functionaries, who, for the past twenty months, have carried on the government under
the direction of their electors. We have seen how this was done and under what conditions,
with what compliances and with what complicity, with what deference to clamorous opinion, with
what docility in the presence of rioters, with what submission to the orders of the mob, with
what a deluge of sentimental phrases and commonplace abstractions. Sent to Paris as deputies,
through the choice or toleration of the clubs, they bear along with them their politics and
their rhetoric. The result is an assemblage of narrow, perverted, hasty, inflated and feeble
minds; at each daily session, twenty word-mills turn to no purpose, the greatest of public
powers at once becoming a manufactory of nonsense, a school of extravagancies, and a theatre
for declamation.

II.--Degree and quality of their intelligence and Culture.

Is it possible that serious men could have listened to such weird nonsense until the bitter end?

"I am a tiller of the soil,"[2210] says one deputy, "I now dare speak of the antique nobility
of my plow. A yoke of oxen once constituted the pure, incorruptible legal worthies before whom
my good ancestors executed their contracts, the authenticity of which, far better recorded
on the soil than on flimsy parchment, is protected from any species of revolution whatever."

Is it conceivable that the reporter of a law, that is about to exile or imprison forty thousand
priests, should employ in an argument such silly bombast as the following?[2211]

"I have seen in the rural districts the hymeneal torch diffusing only pale and somber rays,
or, transformed into the flambeaux of furies, the hideous skeleton of superstition seated even
on the nuptial couch, placed between nature and the wedded, and arresting, etc.... Oh Rome,
art thou satisfied? Art thou then like Saturn, to whom fresh holocausts were daily imperative?...
Depart, ye creators of discord! The soil of liberty is weary of bearing you. Would ye breathe
the atmosphere of the Aventine mount? The national ship is already prepared for you. I hear
on the shore the impatient cries of the crew; I see the breezes of liberty swelling its sails.
Like Telemachus, ye will go forth on the waters to seek your father; but never will you have
to dread the Sicilian rocks, nor the seductions of a Eucharis."

Courtesies of pedants, rhetorical personifications, and the invective of maniacs is the prevailing
tone. The same defect characterizes the best speeches, namely, an overexcited brain, a passion
for high-sounding terms, the constant use of stilts and an incapacity for seeing things as
they are and of so describing them. Men of talent, Isnard, Guadet, Vergniaud himself, are carried
away by hollow sonorous phrases like a ship with too much canvas for its ballast. Their minds
are stimulated by souvenirs of their school lessons, the modern world revealing itself to them
only through their Latin reminiscences.--François de Nantes is exasperated at the pope "who
holds in servitude the posterity of Cato and of Scoevola."--Isnard proposes to follow the example
of the Roman senate which, to allay discord at home, got up an outside war: between old Rome
and France of 1792, indeed, there is a striking resemblance.--Roux insists that the Emperor
(of Austria) should give satisfaction before the 1st of March; "in a case like this the Roman
people would have fixed the term of delay; why shouldn't the French people fix one?..." "The
circle of Popilius" should be drawn around those petty, hesitating German princes. When money
is needed to establish camps around Paris and the large towns, Lasource proposes to dispose
of the national forests and is amazed at any objection to the measure. "Coesar's soldiers,"
he exclaims, "believing that an ancient forest in Gaul was sacred, dared not lay the axe to
it; are we to share their superstitious respect?"[2212]--Add to this collegiate lore the philosophic
dregs deposited in all minds by the great sophist then in vogue. Larivière reads in the tribune[2213]
that page of the "Contrat Social," where Rousseau declares that the sovereign may banish members
"of an unsocial religion," and punish with death "one who, having publicly recognized the dogmas
of civil religion, acts as if he did not believe in them." On which, another hissing parrot,
M. Filassier, exclaims, "I put J. J. Rousseau's proposition into the form of a motion and demand
a vote on it."--In like manner it is proposed to grant very young girls the right of marrying
in spite of their parents by stating, according to the "Nouvelle Héloise"

"that a girl thirteen or fourteen years old begins to sigh for the union which nature dictates.
She struggles between passion and duty, so that, if she triumphs, she becomes a martyr, something
that is rare in nature. It may happen that a young person prefers the serene shame of defeat
to a wearisome eight year long struggle."

Divorce is inaugurated to "preserve in matrimony that happy peace of mind which renders the
sentiments livelier."[2214] Henceforth this will no longer be a chain but "the acquittance
of an agreeable debt which every citizen owes to his country... Divorce is the protecting spirit
of marriage."[2215]

On a background of classic pedantry, with only vague and narrow notions of ordinary instruction,
lacking exact and substantial information, flow obscenities and enlarged commonplaces enveloped
in a mythological gauze, spouting in long tirades as maxims from the revolutionary manual.
Such is the superficial culture and verbal argumentation from which vulgar and dangerous ingredients
the intelligence of the new legislators is formed.[2216]

III.--Aspects of their sessions.

     Scenes and display at the club.--Co-operation of spectators.

From this we can imagine what their sessions were. "More in-coherent and especially more passionate
than those of the Constituent Assembly"[2217] they present the same but intensified characteristics.
The argument is weaker, the invective more violent, and the dogmatism more intemperate. Inflexibility
degenerates into insolence, prejudice into fanaticism, and near-sightedness into blindness.
Disorder becomes a tumult and constant din an uproar. Suppose, says an eye-witness,

"a classroom with hundreds of pupils quarreling and every instant on the point of seizing each
other by the hair. Their dress neglected, their attitudes angry, with sudden transitions from
shouting to hooting.. is a sight hard to imagine and to which nothing can be compared."

It lacks nothing for making it a club of the lowest species. Here, in advance, we contemplate
the ways of the future revolutionary inquisition. They welcome burlesque denunciations; enter
into petty police investigations; weigh the tittle-tattle of porters and the gossip of servant-girls;
devote an all-night session to the secrets of a drunkard.[2218] They enter on their official
report and without any disapproval, the petition of M. Huré, "living at Pont-sur-Yonne, who,
over his own signature, offers one hundred francs and his arm to become a killer of tyrants."
Repeated and multiplied hurrahs and applause with the felicitations of the president is the
sanction of scandalous or ridiculous private misconduct seeking to display itself under the
cover of public authority. Anacharsis Clootz, "a Mascarille officially stamped," who proposes
a general war and who hawks about maps of Europe cut up in advance into departments beginning
with Savoy, Belgium and Holland "and thus onward to the Polar Sea," is thanked and given a
seat on the benches of the Assembly.[2219] Compliments are made to the Vicar of Sainte-Marguerite
and his wife is given a seat in the Assembly and who, introducing "his new family," thunders
against clerical celibacy.[2220] Crowds of men and women are permitted to traverse the hall
letting out political cries. Every sort of indecent, childish and seditious parade is admitted
to the bar of the house.[2221] To-day it consists of "citoyennes of Paris," desirous of being
drilled in military exercises and of having for their commandants "former French guardsmen;"
to-morrow children come and express their patriotism with "touching simplicity," regretting
that "their trembling feet do not permit them to march, no, fly against the tyrants;" next
to these come convicts of the Château--Vieux escorted by a noisy crowd; at another time the
artillerymen of Paris, a thousand in number, with drums beating; delegates from the provinces,
the faubourgs and the clubs come constantly, with their furious harangues, and imperious remonstrances,
their exactions, their threats and their summonses.--In the intervals between the louder racket
a continuous hubbub is heard in the clatter of the tribunes.[2222] At each session "the representatives
are chaffed by the spectators; the nation in the gallery is judge of the nation on the floor;"
it interferes in the debates, silences the speakers, insults the president and orders the reporter
of a bill to quit the tribune. One interruption, or a simple murmur, is not all; there are
twenty, thirty, fifty in an hour, clamoring, stamping, yells and personal abuse. After countless
useless entreaties, after repeated calls to order, "received with hooting," after a dozen "regulations
that are made, revised, countermanded and posted up" as if better to prove the impotence of
the law, of the authorities and of the Assembly itself, the usurpations of these intruders
keep on increasing. They have shouted for ten months "Down with the civil list! Down with the
ministerials! Down with those curs! Silence, slaves!' On the 26th of July, Brissot himself
is to appear lukewarm and be struck on the face with two plums. "Three or four hundred individuals
without either property, title, or means of subsistence... have become the auxiliaries, petitioners
and umpires of the legislature," their paid violence completely destroying whatever is still
left of the Assembly's reason.[2223]

IV.--The Parties.

     The "Right."--"Center."--The "Left."--Opinions and
     sentiments of the Girondins.--Their Allies of the extreme
     "left."

In an assembly thus composed and surrounded, it is easy to foresee on which side the balance
will turn.--Through the meshes of the electoral net which the Jacobins have spread over the
whole country, about one hundred well-meaning individuals of the common run, tolerably sensible
and sufficiently resolute, Mathieu Dumas, Dumolard, Becquet, Gorguereau, Vaublanc, Beugnot,
Girardin, Ramond, Jaucourt, were able to pass and form the party of the "Right."[2224] They
resist to as great an extent as possible, and seem to have obtained a majority.--For, of the
four hundred deputies who have their seats in the center, one hundred and sixty-four are inscribed
on the rolls with them at the Feuillants club, while the rest, under the title of "Independents,"
pretend to be of no party.[2225] Besides, the whole of these four hundred, through monarchical
traditions, respect the King; timid and sensible, violence is repugnant to them. They distrust
the Jacobins, dread what is unknown, desire to be loyal to the Constitution and to live in
peace. Nevertheless, the pompous dogmas of the revolutionary catechism still have their prestige
with them; they cannot comprehend how the Constitution which they like produces the anarchy
which they detest; they are "foolish enough to bemoan the effects while swearing to maintain
their causes; totally deficient in spirit, in union and in boldness," they float backwards
and forwards between contradictory desires, while their predisposition to order merely awaits
the steady impulsion of a vigorous will to turn it in the opposite direction.--On such docile
material the "Left" can work effectively. It comprises, indeed, but one hundred and thirty-six
registered Jacobins and about a hundred others who, in almost all cases, vote with the party;[2226]
rigidity of opinion, however, more than compensates for lack of numbers. In the front row are
Guadet, Brissot, Gensonné, Veygniaud, Ducos, and Condorcet, the future chiefs of the Girondists,
all of them lawyers or writers captivated by deductive politics, absolute in their convictions
and proud of their faith. According to them principles are true and must be applied without
reservation;[2227] whoever would stop half-way is wanting in courage or intelligence. As for
themselves their minds are made up to push through. With the self-confidence of youth and of
theorists they draw their own conclusions and hug themselves with their strong belief in them.
"These gentlemen," says a keen observer,[2228]

"professed great disdain for their predecessors, the Constituents, treating them as short-sighted
and prejudiced people incapable of profiting by circumstances."

"To the observations of wisdom, and disinterested wisdom,[2229] they replied with a scornful
smile, indicative of the aridity proceeding from self-conceit. One exhausted himself in reminding
them of events and in deducing causes from these; one passed in turn from theory to experience
and from experience to theory to show them their identity and, when they condescended to reply
it was to deny the best authenticated facts and contest the plainest observations by opposing
to these a few trite maxims although eloquently expressed. Each regarded the other as if they
alone were worthy of being heard, each encouraging the other with the idea that all resistance
to their way of looking at things was pusillanimity."

In their own eyes they alone are capable and they alone are patriotic. Because they have read
Rousseau and Mably, because their tongue is untied and their pen flowing, because they know
how to handle the formuloe of books and reason out an abstract proposition, they fancy that
they are statesmen.[2230] Because they have read Plutarch and "Le Jeune Anacharsis," because
they aim to construct a perfect society out of metaphysical conceptions, because they are in
a ferment about the coming millennium, they imagine themselves so many exalted spirits. They
have no doubt whatever on these two points even after everything has fallen in through their
blunders, even after their obliging hands are sullied by the foul grasp of robbers whom they
were the first to instigate, and by that of executioners of which they are partners in complicity.[2231]
To this extent is self-conceit the worst of sophists. Convinced of their superior enlightenment
and of the purity of their sentiments, they put forth the theory that the government should
be in their hands. Consequently they lay hold of it in the Legislative body in ways that are
going to turn against them in the Convention. They accept for allies the worst demagogues of
the extreme "Left," Chabot, Couthon, Merlin, Bazière, Thuriot, Lecointre, and outside of it,
Danton, Robespierre, Marat himself, all the levelers and destroyers whom they think of use
to them, but of whom they themselves are the instruments. The motions they make must pass at
any cost and, to ensure this, they let loose against their adversaries the low, yelping mob
which others, still more factious, will to-morrow let loose on them.

V.--Their means of action.

     Dispersion of the Feuillants' club.--Pressure of the
     tribunes on the Assembly.--Street mobs.

Thus, for the second time, the pretended freedom fighters seek power by boldly employing force.--They
begin by suppressing the meetings of the Feuillants club.[2232] The customary riot is instigated
against these, whereupon ensue tumult, violent outcries and scuffles; mayor Pétion complains
of his position "between opinion and law," and lets things take their course; finally, the
Feuillants are obliged to evacuate their place of meeting.--Inside the Assembly they are abandoned
to the insolence of the galleries. In vain do they get exasperated and protest. Ducastel, referring
to the decree of the Constituent Assembly, which forbids any manifestation of approbation or
disapprobation, is greeted with murmurs. He insists on the decree being read at the opening
of each session, and "the murmurs begin again."[2233] "Is it not scandalous," says Vaublanc,
"that the nation's representatives speaking from the tribune are subject to hootings like those
bestowed upon an actor on the stage!" whereupon the galleries give him three rounds more. "Will
posterity believe," says Quatremère, "that acts concerning the honor, the lives, and the fortunes
of citizens should be subject, like games in the arena, to the applause and hisses of the spectators!"
"Come to the point!" shout the galleries. "If ever," resumes Quatremère, "the most important
of judicial acts (an act of capital indictment) can be exposed to this scandalous prostitution
of applause and menaces..." "The murmurs break out afresh."--Every time that a sanguinary or
incendiary measure is to be carried, the most furious and prolonged clamor stops the utterance
of its opponents: "Down with the speaker! Send the reporter of that bill to prison! Down! Down!
Sometimes only about twenty of the deputies will applaud or hoot with the galleries, and sometimes
it is the entire Assembly which is insulted. Fists are thrust in the president's face. All
that now remains is "to call down the galleries on the floor to pass decrees," which proposition
is ironically made by one of the "Right."[2234]

Great, however, as this usurpation may be, the minority, in order to suppress the majority,
accommodate themselves to it, the Jacobins in the chamber making common cause with the Jacobins
in the galleries. The disturbers should not be put out; "it would be excluding from our deliberations,"
says Grangeneuve, "that which belongs essentially to the people." On one of the deputies demanding
measures to enforce silence, "Torné demands that the proposition be referred to the Portugal
inquisition." Choudieu "declares that it can only emanate from deputies who forget that respect
which is due to the people, their sovereign judge."[2235] "The action of the galleries," says
Lecointe-Puyraiveaux, "is an outburst of patriotism." Finally, this same Choudieu, twisting
and turning all rights about with incomparable audacity, wishes to confer legislative privileges
on the audience, and demands a decree against the deputies who, guilty of popular lèse-majesté,
presume to complain of those who insult them.--Another piece of oppressive machinery, still
more energetic, operates outside on the approaches to the Assembly. Like their predecessors
of the Constituent Assembly, the members of the "Right" "cannot leave the building without
encountering the threats and imprecations of enraged crowds. Cries of 'to the lantern!' greet
the ears of Dumolard, Vaublanc, Raucourd, and Lacretelle as often as those of the Abbé Maury
and Montlosier."[2236] After having hurled abuse at the president, Mathieu Dumas, they insult
his wife who has been recognized in a reserved gallery.[2237] In the Tuileries, crowds are
always standing there listening to the brawlers who denounce suspected deputies by name, and
woe to any among them who takes that path on his way to the chamber! A broadside of insults
greets him as he passes along. If the deputy happens to be a farmer, they exclaim: "Look at
that queer old aristocrat--an old peasant dog that used to watch cows!" One day Hua, on going
up the steps of the Tuileries terrace, is seized by the hair by an old vixen who bids him "Bow
your head to your sovereigns, the people, you bastard of a deputy!" On the 20th of June one
of the patriots, who is crossing the Assembly room, whispers in his ear, "You scamp of a deputy,
you'll never die but by my hand!" Another time, having defended the juge-de-paix Larivière,
there awaits him at the door, in the middle of the night, "a set of blackguards, who crowd
around him and thrust their fists and cudgels in his face;" happily, his friends Dumas and
Daverhoult, two military officers, foreseeing the danger, present their pistols and set him
free "although with some difficulty."--As the 10th of August draws near there is more open
aggression. Vaublanc, for having defended Lafayette, just misses being cut to pieces three
times on leaving the Assembly; sixty of the deputies are treated in the same fashion, being
struck, covered with mud, and threatened with death if they dare go back.[2238]--With such
allies a minority is very strong. Thanks to its two agencies of constraint it will detach the
votes it needs from the majority and, either through terror or craft, secure the passage of
all the decrees it needs.

VI.--Parliamentary maneuvers.

     Abuses of urgency.--Vote on the principle.--Call by name.
     --Intimidation of the "Center."--Opponents inactive.--The
     majority finally disposed of.

Sometimes it succeeds surreptitiously by rushing them through. As "there is no order of the
day circulated beforehand, and, in any event, none which anybody is obliged to adhere to,"[2239]
the Assembly is captured by surprise. "The first knave amongst the 'Left,' (which expression,
says Hua, I do not strike out, because there were many among those gentlemen), brought up a
ready-made resolution, prepared the evening before by a clique. We were not prepared for it
and demanded that it should be referred to a committee. Instead of doing this, however, the
resolution was declared urgent, and, whether we would or not, discussion had to take place
forthwith."[2240]--"There were other tactics equally perfidious, which Thuriot, especially,
made use of. This great rascal got up and proposed, not the draft of a law, but what he called
a principle; for instance, a decree should be passed confiscating the property of the émigrés,..
or that unsworn priests should be subject to special surveillance.[2241]... In reply, he was
told that his principle was the core of a law, the very law itself; so let it be debated by
referring it to a committee to make a report on it.--Not at all--the matter is urgent; a committee
might fix the articles as it pleases; they are worthless if the principle is not common sense."
Through this expeditious method discussion is stifled. The Jacobins purposely prevent the Assembly
from giving the matter any consideration. They count on its bewilderment. In the name of reason,
they discard reason as far as they can, and hasten a vote because their decrees do not stand
up to analysis.--At other times, and especially on grand occasions, they compel a vote. In
general, votes are given by the members either sitting down or standing up, and, for the four
hundred deputies of the "Center," subject to the scolding of the exasperated galleries, it
is a tolerably hard trial. "Part of them do not arise, or they rise with the 'Left'."[2242]
If the "Right" happens to have a majority, "this is contested in bad faith and a call of the
house is demanded." Now, "the calls of the house, through an intolerable abuse, are always
published; the Jacobins declaring that it is well for the people to know their friends from
their enemies." The meaning of this is that this list of the opposition will soon serve as
a list of the outlaws, on which the timid are not disposed to inscribe themselves. The result
is an immediate defection in the heavy battalions of the "Centre"; "this is a positive fact,"
says Hua, "of which we were all witnesses; we always lost a hundred votes on the call of the
house."--Towards the end they give up, and protest no more, except by staying away: on the
14th of June, when the abolishment of the whole system of feudal credit was being dealt with,
only the extreme left was attending; the rest of the "Assembly hall was nearly empty"; out
of 497 deputies in attendance, 200 had left the session.[2243] Encouraged for a moment by the
appearance of some possible protection, they twice exonerate General Lafayette, behind whom
they see an army,[2244] and brave the despots of the Assembly, the clubs, and the streets.
But, for lack of a military chief and base, the visible majority is twice obliged to yield,
to keep silent, and fly or retreat under the dictatorship of the victorious faction, which
has strained and forced the legislative machine until it has become disjointed and broken down.[2245]

*****

[Footnote 2201:"Correspondence (manuscript) of Baron de Staël," with his Court in Sweden. V:
"The Jacobin party, having branches all over the country, used its provincial clubs to control
the elections. Every crackbrain, every seditious scribbler, all the agitators were elected
... very few enlightened or prudent men, and still fewer of the nobles, were chosen."--Moniteur,
XII. 199 (meeting of April 23, 1792). Speech M. Lecointe-Puyravaux. "We need not dissimulate;
indeed, we are proud to say, that this legislature is composed of persons who are not rich."]

[Footnote 2203: Mathieu Dumas, "Mémoires," I. 521. "The excitement in the electoral assemblages
was very great; the aristocrats and large land-owners abstained from coming there."--Correspondance
de Mirabeau et du Comte de la Mark, III. 246, Oct.10, 1791. "Nineteen twentieths of this legislature
have no other transportation (turn-out) than galoshes and umbrellas. It has been estimated,
that all these deputies put together do not possess 300,000 livres solid income. The majority
of the members of this Assembly have received no education whatever."]

[Footnote 2204: They rank as Maréchaux de camp, a grade corresponding to that of brigadier-general.
They are Dupuy-Montbrun (deceased in March, 1792), Descrots-d'Estrée, a weak and worn old man
whom his children forced into the Legislative Assembly, and, lastly, Mathieu Dumas, a conservative,
and the only prominent one.]

[Footnote 2205: "Correspondance du Baron de Staël," Jan.19, 1792.--Gouverneur Morris (II.162,
Feb. 4, 1792) writes to Washington that M. de Warville, on the diplomatic committee, proposed
to cede Dunkirk and Calais to England, as a pledge of fidelity by France, in any engagement
which she might enter into. You can judge, by this, of the wisdom and virtue of the faction
to which he belongs--Buchez et Roux, XXX 89 (defense of Brissot, Jan. 5, 1793) "Brissot, like
all noisy, reckless, ambitious men, started in full blast with the strangest paradoxes. In
1780. in his 'Recherches philosophiques sur le droit de propriété,' he wrote as follows: 'If
40 crowns suffice to maintain existence, the possession of 200,000 crowns is plainly unjust
and a robbery... Exclusive ownership is a veritable crime against nature... The punishment
of robbery in our institutions is an act of virtue which nature herself commands.'"]

[Footnote 2206: Moniteur, speech by Cambon, sittings of Feb. 2 and April 20, 1792.]

[Footnote 2207: Ibid., (sitting of April 3). Speech by M. Cailliasson. The property belonging
to the nation, sold and to be sold, is valued at 2,195 millions, while the assignats already
issued amount to 2,100 millions.--Cf. Mercure de France, Dec. 17, 1791, p.201; Jan.28, 1792,
p. 215; May 19, 1792, p. 205.--Dumouriez, "Mémoires," III. 296, and 339, 340, 344, 346.--"Cambon,
a raving lunatic, without education, humane principle, or integrity (public) a meddler, an
ignoramus, and very giddy. He tells me that one resource remained to him, which is, to seize
all the coin in Belgium, all the plate belonging to the churches, and all the cash deposits...
that, on ruining the Belgians, on reducing them to the same state of suffering as the French,
they would necessarily share their fate with them; that they would then be admitted members
of the Republic, with the prospect of always making headway, through the same line of policy;
that the decree of Dec. 15, 1792, admirably favored this and, because it tended to a complete
disorganization, and that the luckiest thing that could happen to France was to disorganize
all its neighbors and reduce them to the same state of anarchy." (This conversation between
Cambon and Dumouriez occurs in the middle of January, 1793.)--Moniteur, XIV. 758 (sitting of
Dec. 15, 1792). Report by Cambon.]

[Footnote 2208: Chronique de Paris, Sept. 4, 1792. "It is a sad and terrible situation which
forces a people, naturally amiable and generous, to take such vengeance!"--Cf. the very acute
article, by St. Beuve, on Condorcet, in "Causeries du Lundi,"--Hua (a colleague of Condorcet,
in the Legislative Assembly), "Mémoires," 89. "Condorcet, in his journal, regularly falsified
things, with an audacity which is unparelleled. The opinions of the 'Right' were so mutilated
and travestied the next day in his journal, that we, who had uttered them, could scarcely recognise
them. On complaining of this to him and on charging him with perfidy, the philosopher only
smiled."]

[Footnote 2209: Malouet, II. 215.--Dumouriez, III. ch. V. "They were elected to represent the
nation to defend, they say, its interests against a perfidious court."]

[Footnote 2210: Moniteur, X. 223 (session of Oct. 26, 1791). Speech by M. François Duval.--Grandiloquence
is the order of the day at the very first meeting. On the 1st of October, 1791, twelve old
men, marching in procession, go out to fetch the constitutional act. "M. Camus, keeper of the
records, with a composed air and downcast eyes, enters with measured steps," bearing in both
hands the sacred document which he holds against his breast, while the deputies stand up and
bare their heads. "People of France," says an orator, "citizens of Paris, all generous Frenchmen,
and you, our fellow citizens--virtuous, intelligent women, bringing your gentle influence into
the sanctuary of the law--behold the guarantee of peace which the legislature presents to you!"--We
seem to be witnessing the last act of an opera.]

[Footnote 2211: Ibid., XII. 230 (sessions of April 26 and May 5). Report and speech by François
de Nantes. The whole speech, a comic treasure from the beginning to the end, ought to have
been quoted: "Tell me, pontiff of Rome, what your sentiments will be when you welcome your
worthy and faithful co-operators?.. I behold your sacred hands, ready to launch those pontifical
thunderbolts, which, etc... Let the brazier of Scoevola be brought in, and, with our outstretched
palms above the burning coals, we will show that there is no species of torture, no torment
which can excite a frown on the brow of him whom the love of country exalts above humanity!"--Suppose
that, just at this moment, a lighted candle had been placed under his hand!]

[Footnote 2212: Moniteur, XI. 179 (session of Jan. 20, 1792).--Ibid., 216 (session of Jan.
24).--XII. 426 (May 9).]

[Footnote 2213: Ibid., XII. 479 (session of May 24).--XIII. 71 (session of July 7, speech by
Lasource).--Cf. XIV. 301 (session of July 31) a quotation from Voltaire brought in for the
suppression of the convents.]

[Footnote 2214: Moniteur. Speech by Aubert Dubayer, session of Aug. 30.]

[Footnote 2215: Speech by Chaumette, procureur of the commune, to the newly married. (Mortimer-Ternaux,
IV. 408).]

[Footnote 2216: The class to which they belonged has been portrayed, to the life, by M. Roye-Collard
(Sainte-Beuve, "Nouveaux Lundis," IV. 263): "A young lawyer at Paris, at first received in
a few houses on the Ile St. Louis, he soon withdrew from this inferior world of attorneys and
pettyfoggers, whose tone oppressed him. The very thought of the impression this gallant and
intensely vulgar mediocrity made upon him, still inspired disgust. He much preferred to talk
with longshoremen, if need be, than with these scented limbs of the law."]

[Footnote 2217: Etienne Dumont, "Mémoires," 40.--Mercure de France, Nov. 19, 1791; Feb. 11
and March 3, 1792. (articles by Mallet du Pan).]

[Footnote 2218: Moniteur, Dec. 17 (examination at the bar of the house of Rauch, a pretended
labor contractor, whom they are obliged to send off acquitted). Rauch tells them: "I have no
money, and cannot find a place where I can sleep at less than 6 sous, because I pee in the
bed."--Moniteur, XII. 574. (session of June 4), report by Chabot: "A peddler from Mortagne,
says that a domestic coming from Coblentz told him that there was a troop about to carry off
the king and poison him, so as to throw the odium of it on the National Assembly." Bernassais
de Poitiers writes: "A brave citizen told me last evening: 'I have been to see a servant-girl,
living with a noble. She assured me that her master was going to-night to Paris, to join the
30,000, who, in about a month, meant to cut the throats of the National Assembly and set fire
to every corner of Paris!'"--"M. Gerard, a saddler at Amiens, writes to us that Louis XVI is
to be aided in his flight by 5,000 relays, and that afterwards they are going to fire red-hot
bullets on the National Assembly."]

[Footnote 2219: Mercure de France, Nov. 5, 1791 (session of Oct. 25).--Ibid., Dec. 23.-Moniteur,
XII. 192 (session of April 21, 1792).--XII. 447 (address to the French, by Clootz): "God brought
order out of primitive chaos; the French will bring order out of feudal chaos. God is mighty,
and manifested his will; we are mighty, and we will manifest our will... The more extensive
the seat of war the sooner, and more fortunately, will the suit of plebeians against the nobles
be decided... We require enemies,.. Savoy, Tuscany, and quickly, quickly!"]

[Footnote 2220: Cf. Moniteur, XI. 192 (sitting of Jan. 22, 1792). "M. Burnet, chaplain of the
national guard, presents himself at the bar of the house with an English woman, named Lydia
Kirkham, and three small children, one of which is in her arms. M. Burnet announces that she
is his wife and that the child in her arms is the fruit of their affection. After referring
to the force of natural sentiments which he could not resist, the petitioner thus continues:
'One day, I met one of those sacred questioners. Unfortunate man, said he, of what are you
guilty? Of this child, sir; and I have married this woman, who is a Protestant, and her religion
has nothing to do with mine... Death or my wife! Such is the cry that nature now and always
will, inspire me with."--The petitioner receives the honors of the Assembly.--(Ibid., XII 369).]

[Footnote 2221: The grotesque is often that of a farce. "M. Piorry, in the name of poor; but
virtuous citizens, tenders two pairs of buckles, with this motto: 'They have served to hold
the shoe-straps on my feet; they will serve to reduce under them, with the imprint and character
of truth, all tyrants leagued against the constitution' (Moniteur, XII. 457, session of May
21)"--Ibid., XIII. 249 (session of July 25). "A young citoyenne offers to combat, in person,
against the enemies of her country;" and the president, with a gallant air, replies: "Made
rather to soothe, than to combat tyrants, your offer, etc."]

[Footnote 2222: Moniteur, XL 576 (session of March 6); XII. 237, 314, 368 (sessions of April
27, May 5 and 14).]

[Footnote 2223: Mercure de France. Sept. 19,1791, Feb.11, and March 3, 1792.--Buchez et Roux,
XVI 185 (session of July 26, 1792).]

[Footnote 2224: "Mémoires de Mallet du Pan," 1433 (tableau of the three parties, with special
information).]

[Footnote 2225: Buchez et Roux, XII. 348 (letter by the deputy Chéron, president of the Feuillants
Club). The deputies of the Legislative Assembly, registered at the Feuillants Club, number
264 besides a large number of deputies in the Constituent Assembly.--According to Mallet du
Pan the so-called Independents number 250.]

[Footnote 2226: These figures are verified by decisive ballottings (Mortimer-Ternauz, II. 205,
348.)]

[Footnote 2227: Moniteur, XII. 393 (session of May 15, speech by Isnard): "The Constituent
Assembly only half dared do what it had the power to do. It has left in the field of liberty,
even around the very roots of the young constitutional tree, the old roots of despotism and
of the aristocracy... It has bound us to the trunk of the constitutional tree, like powerless
victims given up to the rage of their enemies."----Etienne Dumont saw truly the educational
defects peculiar to the party. He says, apropos of Madame Roland: "I found in her too much
of that distrustful despotism which belongs to ignorance of the world.. . What her intellectual
development lacked was a greater knowledge of the world and intercourse with men of superior
judgment to her own. III.-Madame de Staël conversed with them and judges them according to
the shrewd perceptions of a woman of the world.]

[Footnote 2230: Louvet, "Mémoires" 32. "I belonged to the bold philosophers who, before the
end of 1791, lamented the fate of a great nation, compelled to stop half-way in the career
of freedom," and, on page 38--"A minister of justice was needed. The four ministers (Roland,
Servane, etc.) cast their eyes on me... Duranthon was preferred to me. This was the first mistake
of the republican party. It paid dear for it. That mistake cost my country a good deal of blood
and many tears." Later on, he thinks that he has the qualifications for ambassador to Constantinople.]

[Footnote 2231: Buzot, "Mémoires" (Ed. Dauban), pp.31, 39. "Born with a proud and independent
spirit which never bowed at any one's command, how could I accept the idea of a man being held
sacred? With my heart and head possessed by the great beings of the ancient republics, who
are the greatest honor to the human species, I practiced their maxims from my earliest years,
and nourished myself on a study of their virtues... The pretended necessity of a monarchy...
could not amalgamate, in my mind, with the grand and noble conceptions formed by me, of the
dignity of the human species. Hope deceived me, it is true, but my error was too glorious to
allow me to repent of it."--Self-admiration is likewise the mental substratum of Madame Roland,
Roland, Pétion, Barbaroux, Louvet, etc., (see their writings). Mallet du Pan well says: "On
reading the memoirs of Madame Roland, one detects the actress, rehearsing for the stage. "--Roland
is an administrative puppet and would-be orator, whose wife pulls the strings. There is an
odd, dull streak in him, peculiarly his own. In 1788, he proposes to the Villefranche Academy
to inquire "whether it would not be to the public advantage to institute tribunals for trying
the dead?" in imitation of the Egyptians. In his report of Jan. 5, 1792, he gives a plan for
establishing public festivals, "in imitation of the Spartans," and takes for a motto, Non omnis
moriar (Baron de Girardot, "Roland and Madame Roland". I. 83, 185)]

[Footnote 2232: Political club uniting moderate and constitutional monarchists. They got their
nickname because they held their meetings in the old convent formerly used by the feullants,
a branch of Cistercians who, led by LaBarrière, broke away in 1577. The Feuillant Club was
dissolved in 1791. (SR).]

[Footnote 2233: Moniteur, XI. 61 (session of Jan 7, 1792).--Ibid., 204 (Jan. 25); 281 (Feb.
1); 310 (Feb. 4); 318 (Feb. 6); 343 (Feb. 9); 487 (Feb. 26).--XII. 22 (April 2). Reports of
all the sessions must be read to appreciate the force of the pressure. See, especially, the
sessions of April 9 and 16, May 15 and 29, June 8, 9, 15, and 25, July 1, 2, 5, 9, 11, 17,
18, and 21, and, after this date, all the sessions.--Lacretelle, "Dix Ans d'Epreuves," p. 78-81.
"The Legislative Assembly served under the Jacobin Club while keeping up a counterfeit air
of independence. The progress which fear had made in the French character was very great, at
a time when everything was pitched in the haughtiest key... The majority, as far as intentions
go, was for the conservatives; the actual majority was for the republicans."]

[Footnote 2234: Moniteur, XIII. 212, session of July 22.]

[Footnote 2235: Moniteur, XII. 22, session of April 2.--Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 95.--Moniteur,
XIII. 222, session of July 22.]

[Footnote 2236: Lacretelle, "Dix Ans d'Epreuves," 80.]

[Footnote 2237: Mathieu Dumas, "Mémoires," II. 88 (Feb. 23).--Hua, "Mémoires d'un Avocat au
Parliament de Paris," 106, 121, 134, 154. Moniteur, XIII. 212 (session of July 21), speech
by M.---"The avenues to this building are daily beset with a horde of people who insult the
representatives of the nation."]

[Footnote 2238: De Vaublanc, "Mémoires," 344.--Moniteur, XIII. 368 (letters and speeches of
deputies, session of Aug. 9).]

[Footnote 2239: Hua, 115.--Ibid., 90. 3 out of 4 deputies of Seine-et-Oise were Jacobins. "We
met once a week to talk over the affairs of the department. We were obliged to drive out the
vagabonds who, even at the table, talked of nothing but killing."]

[Footnote 2240: Moniteur, XII. 702. For example, on the 19th of June, 1792, on a motion unexpectedly
proposed by Condorcet, that the departments be authorized to burn all titles (to nobility)
in the various depots.--Adopted at once, and unanimously.]

[Footnote 2241: Later Stalin and his successors should invest the United Nations and other
international organizations to indirectly propose and ensure the acceptance of a new convention
of human rights, children's rights, the rights of refugees etc. In many cases these became
the base of national legislation which is now giving trouble to many of the Western democracies.
(SR).]

[Footnote 2242: Hua, 114.]

[Footnote 2243: Moniteur, XII. 664.--Mercure de France, June 23, 1792.]

[Footnote 2244: Hua, 141.--Mathieu Dumas, II. 399: "It is remarkable that Lafond de Ladébat,
one of our trustiest friends, was elected president on the 23rd of July, 1792. This shows that
the majority of the Assembly was still sound; but it was only brought about by a secret vote
in the choice of candidates. The same men who obeyed their consciences, through a sentiment
of justice and of propriety, could not face the danger which surrounded them in the threats
of the factions when they were called upon to vote by rising or sitting."]

[Footnote 2245: This description and others of the same period have undoubtedly been studied
carefully by thousands of socialists and political hopefuls who, in any case, made use of similar
tactics to take over thousands of governing committees, institutions and organizations. (SR).]

CHAPTER III.

I.--Policy of the Assembly.--State of France at the end of 1791.

     Powerlessness of the Law.

If the deputies who, on the 1st of October, 1791, so solemnly and enthusiastically swore to
the Constitution, had been willing to open their eyes, they would have seen this Constitution
constantly violated, both in its letter and spirit, over the entire territory. As usual, and
through the vanity of authorship, M. Thouret, the last president of the Constituent Assembly,
had, in his final report, hidden disagreeable truth underneath pompous and delusive phrases;
but it was only necessary to look over the monthly record to see whether, as guaranteed by
him, "the decrees were faithfully executed in all parts of the empire."--" Where is this faithful
execution to be found?" inquires Mallet du Pan.[2301] "Is it at Toulon, in the midst of the
dead and wounded, shot in the very face of the amazed municipality and Directory? Is it at
Marseilles, where two private individuals are knocked down and massacred as aristocrats," under
the pretext "that they sold to children poisoned sugar-plums with which to begin a counter-revolution?"
Is it at Arles, "against which 4,000 men from Marseilles, dispatched by the club, are at this
moment marching?" Is it at Bayeux, "where the sieur Fauchet against whom a warrant for arrest
is out, besides being under the ban of political disability, has just been elected deputy to
the Legislative Assembly?" Is it at Blois, "where the commandant, doomed to death for having
tried to execute these decrees, is forced to send away a loyal regiment and submit to licentious
troops?" Is it at Nîmes, "where the Dauphiny regiment, on leaving the town by the Minister's
orders, is ordered by the people" and the club "to disobey the Minister and remain?" Is it
in those regiments whose officers, with pistols at their breasts, are obliged to leave and
give place to amateurs? Is it at Toulouse, "where, at the end of August, the administrative
authorities order all unsworn priests to leave the town in three days, and withdraw to a distance
of four leagues?" Is it in the outskirts of Toulouse, "where, on the 28th of August, a municipal
officer is hung at a street-lamp after an affray with guns?" Is it at Paris, where, on the
25th of September, the Irish college, vainly protected by an international treaty, has just
been assailed by the mob; where Catholics, listening to the orthodox mass, are driven out and
dragged to the authorized mass in the vicinity; where one woman is torn from the confessional,
and another flogged with all their might?[2302]

These troubles, it is said, are transient; on the Constitution being proclaimed, order will
return of itself. Very well, the Constitution is voted, accepted by the King, proclaimed, and
entrusted to the Legislative Assembly. Let the Legislative Assembly consider what is done in
the first few weeks. In the eight departments that surround Paris, there are riots on every
market-day; farms are invaded and the cultivators of the soil are ransomed by bands of vagabonds;
the mayor of Melun is riddled with balls and dragged out from the hands of the mob streaming
with blood.[2303] At Belfort, a riot for the purpose of retaining a convoy of coin, and the
commissioner of the Upper-Rhine in danger of death; at Bouxvillers, owners of property attacked
by poor National Guards, and by the soldiers of Salm-Salm, houses broken into and cellars pillaged;
at Mirecourt, a flock of women beating drums, and, for three days, holding the Hôtel-de-Ville
in a state of siege.----One day Rochefort is in a state of insurrection, and the workmen of
the harbor compel the municipality to unfurl the red flag.[2304] On the following day, it is
Lille, the people of which, "unwilling to exchange its money and assignats for paper-rags,
called billets de confiance, gather into mobs and threaten, while a whole garrison is necessary
to prevent an explosion." On the 16th of October, it is Avignon in the power of bandits, with
the abominable butchery of the Glacière. On the 5th of November, at Caen, there are eighty-two
gentlemen, townsmen and artisans, knocked down and dragged to prison, for having offered their
services to the municipality as special constables. On the 14th of November, at Montpellier,
the roughs triumph; eight men and women are killed in the streets or in their houses, and all
conservatives are disarmed or put to flight. By the end of October, it is a gigantic column
of smoke and flame shooting upward suddenly from week to week and spreading everywhere, growing,
on the other side of the Atlantic, into civil war in St. Domingo, where wild beasts are let
loose against their keepers; 50,000 blacks take the field, and, at the outset, 1,000 whites
are assassinated, 15,000 Negroes slain, 200 sugar-mills destroyed and damage done to the amount
of 600,000,000; "a colony of itself alone worth ten provinces, is almost annihilated."[2305]
At Paris, Condorcet is busy writing in his journal that "this news is not reliable, there being
no object in it but to create a French empire beyond the seas for the King, where there will
be masters and slaves." A corporal of the Paris National Guard, on his own authority, orders
the King to remain indoors, fearing that he may escape, and forbids a sentinel to let him go
out after nine o'clock in the evening;[2306] at the Tuileries, stump-speakers in the open air
denounce aristocrats and priests; at the Palais-Royal, there is a pandemonium of public lust
and incendiary speeches.[2307] There are centers of riot in all quarters, "as many robberies
as there are quarter-hours, and no robbers punished; no police; overcrowded courts; more delinquents
than there are prisons to hold them; nearly all the private mansions closed; the annual consumption
in the faubourg St. Germain alone diminished by 250 millions; 20,000 thieves, with branded
backs, idling away time in houses of bad repute, at the theaters, in the Palais-Royal, at the
National Assembly, and in the coffee-houses; thousands of beggars infesting the streets, crossways,
and public squares. Everywhere an image of the deepest poverty which is not calling for one's
pity as it is accompanied with insolence. Swarms of tattered vendors are offering all sorts
of paper-money, issued by anybody that chose to put it in circulation, cut up into bits, sold,
given, and coming back in rags, fouler than the miserable creatures who deal in it."[2308]
Out of 700,000 inhabitants there are 100,000 of the poor, of which 60,000 have flocked in from
the departments;[2309] among them are 30,000 needy artisans from the national workshops, discharged
and sent home in the preceding month of June, but who, returning three months later, are again
swallowed up in the great sink of vagabondage, hurling their floating mass against the crazy
edifice of public authority and furnishing the forces of sedition.--At Paris, and in the provinces,
disobedience exists throughout the hierarchy. Directories countermand ministerial orders. Here,
municipalities brave the commands of their Directory; there, communities order around their
mayor with a drawn sword. Elsewhere, soldiers and sailors put their officers under arrest.
The accused insult the judge on the bench and force him to cancel his verdict; mobs tax or
plunder wheat in the market; National Guards prevent its distribution, or seize it in the storehouses.
There is no security for property, lives, or consciences. The majority of Frenchmen are deprived
of their right to worship in their own faith, and of voting at the elections. There is no safety,
day or night, for the élite of the nation, for ecclesiastics and the gentry, for army and navy
officers, for rich merchants and large landed proprietors; no protection in the courts, no
income from public funds; denunciations abound, expulsions, banishments to the interior, attacks
on private houses; there is no right of free assemblage, even to enforce the law under the
orders of legal authorities.[2310] Opposed to this, and in contrast with it, is the privilege
and immunity of a sect formed into a political corporation, "which extends its filiations over
the whole kingdom, and even abroad; which has its own treasury, its committees, and its by-laws;
which rules the government, which judges justice,"[2311] and which, from the capital to the
hamlet, usurps or directs the administration. Liberty, equality, and the majesty of the law
exist nowhere, except in words. Of the three thousand decrees given birth to by the Constituent
Assembly, the most lauded, those the best set off by a philosophic baptism, form a mass of
stillborn abortions of which France is the burying-ground. That which really subsists underneath
the false appearances of right, proclaimed and sworn to over and over again, is, on the one
hand, an oppression of the upper and cultivated classes, from which all the rights of man are
withdrawn, and, on the other hand, the tyranny of the fanatical and brutal rabble which assumes
to itself all the rights of sovereignty.

II.--The Assembly hostile to the oppressed and favoring oppressors.

     Decrees against the nobles and clergy.--Amnesty for
     deserters, convicts, and bandits.--Anarchical and leveling
     maxims.

