For all men doubtless obstructions abound; spiritual growth must be hampered and stunted, and
has to struggle through with difficulty, if it do not wholly stop. We may grant too that, for
a mediocre character, the continual training and tutoring, from language-masters, dancing-masters,
posture-masters of all sorts, hired and volunteer, which a high rank in any time and country
assures, there will be produced a certain superiority, or at worst, air of superiority, over
the corresponding mediocre character of low rank; thus we perceive, the vulgar Do-nothing,
as contrasted with the vulgar Drudge, is in general a much prettier man; with a wider perhaps
clearer outlook into the distance; in innumerable superficial matters, however it may be when
we go deeper, he has a manifest advantage. But with the man of uncommon character, again, in
whom a germ of irrepressible Force has been implanted, and will unfold itself into some sort
of freedom,--altogether the reverse may hold. For such germs, too, there is, undoubtedly enough,
a proper soil where they will grow best, and an improper one where they will grow worst. True
also, where there is a will, there is a way; where a genius has been given, a possibility,
a certainty of its growing is also given. Yet often it seems as if the injudicious gardening
and manuring were worse than none at all; and killed what the inclemencies of blind chance
would have spared. We find accordingly that few Fredericks or Napoleons, indeed none since
the Great Alexander, who unfortunately drank himself to death too soon for proving what lay
in him, were nursed up with an eye to their vocation; mostly with an eye quite the other way,
in the midst of isolation and pain, destitution and contradiction. Nay, in our own times, have
we not seen two men of genius, a Byron and a Burns: they both, by mandate of Nature, struggle
and must struggle towards clear manhood, stormfully enough, for the space of six-and-thirty
years; yet only the gifted ploughman can partially prevail therein; the gifted peer must toil,
and strive, and shoot out in wild efforts, yet die at last in boyhood, with the promise of
his manhood still but announcing itself in the distance. Truly, as was once written, "it is
only the artichoke that will not grow except in gardens: the acorn is cast carelessly abroad
into the wilderness, yet on the wild soil it nourishes itself, and rises to be an oak." All
woodmen, moreover, will tell you that fat manure is the ruin of your oak; likewise that the
thinner and wilder your soil, the tougher, more iron-textured is your timber,--though, unhappily,
also the smaller. In which sense, an observer, not without experience of our time, has said:--"Had
I a man of clearly developed character (clear, sincere within its limits), of insight, courage,
and real applicable force of head and of heart, to search for; and not a man of luxuriously
distorted character, with haughtiness for courage, and for insight and applicable force, speculation
and plausible show of force,--it were rather among the lower than among the higher classes
that I should look for him."

A hard saying, indeed, seems this same; that he, whose other wants were all beforehand supplied;
to whose capabilities no problem was presented except even this, How to cultivate them to best
advantage, should attain less real culture than he whose first grand problem and obligation
was nowise spiritual culture, but hard labour for his daily bread! Sad enough must the perversion
be, where preparations of such magnitude issue in abortion: and a so sumptuous heart with all
its appliances can accomplish nothing, not so much as necessitous nature would of herself have
supplied! Nevertheless, so pregnant is life with evil as with good; to such height in an age
rich, plethorically overgrown with means, can means be accumulated in the wrong place, and
immeasurably aggravate wrong tendencies, instead of righting them, this sad and strange result
may actually turn out to have been realized.--Edinburgh Rev. (just published.)

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR EGERTON BRYDGES.--THE LATE DUKE OF NORFOLK.

(From Clavering's Autobiography.)

I saw Sir Egerton Brydges in the streets, was introduced to him, and recalled to his mind our
rencontre at Mr. Carter's at Deal, thirty years ago. He walked feebly, was lame, and had been
confined to his bed for many months the preceding winter. He was pale, apparently grief-worn,
and had a most grave and melancholy countenance, and languid look; but now and then flashed,
both with eyes and words. He amused himself with printing privately, and distributing among
his friends a variety of fragments. He complained bitterly of some London agents, who had cheated
him most enormously, and whom he was bringing before the Court of Chancery. His common acquaintance
complained that he was too grave for them, and that he was deficient in wit and point. They
said he was "all sober sadness," and that he had romantic views of life, and did not know the
human character. I had not sufficient conversation with him to judge of this. He was intimate
with d'Invernois, who spoke highly of him. He had certainly none of our Irish vivacity, and
fulness of imagery. He was rather querulous and prolix, than piquant, and declaimed rather
than said sharp things. I said to him, "Why do you not endeavour, in your writings, to accommodate
yourself more to the public taste?" He answered, in despair, "I cannot--I have no turn that
way. I know the value of the bon-mot, the sarcasm, and the epigram; but I have no ability that
way." And it seemed true; he had no ability that way.

When the old lineal Duke of Norfolk died--I think it was in 1778--the pomp of that mighty house
was much abased. His collateral successor, Mr. Howard, of Graystock, was a man of mean and
intemperate habits, which were inherited by his son, the late duke, then known by the name
of Lord Surry, and who made himself conspicuous as a Whig, and by electioneering contests and
intrigues. With this last I was familiar, but soon saw that I could put no trust in him. I
wrote many political squibs at his desire--not worth preserving; he was a man of a good deal
of spleen, personal as well as political. Charles Fox flattered him, that he might have his
aid to the party; but he did not love or respect him. He married an Irishwoman for his first
wife. I think his mother's name was Brockholes. It was amusing to see him in contest with the
late Lord Abingdon, whose power of speaking in the House (whatever mental eccentricities he
might have) was so great, that many preferred his eloquence even to Lord Chatham's. The duke
was never at rest: he always had some jobs in hand: by which he often put himself into pecuniary
embarrassment. His face was very much like that of Cardinal Howard, Temp. Car. II., of whom
there are so many engraved portraits. He prided himself upon a common dress, very much like
that of a yeoman, or rather country schoolmaster. It was generally a grey coat, with black
buttons, and black waistcoat. I once asked him to use his interest for a relation of mine;
he readily promised--but never attempted to perform. He had a personal antipathy to Pitt and
Lord Grenville; and one of the constant subjects of his jokes and raillery was the Grenville
pedigree. A Mr. Dallaway, a clergyman, was his private secretary, as earl-marshal; with whom
I once dined at the duke's table; a large, heavy-looking man, who, I was told, had written
several books; but I presume he is deceased, as I have not seen his name announced for a long
while.

       *       *       *       *       *

MADAME DE STAËL.

(From Lady Blessington's Conversations with Lord Byron.)

Talking of literary women, Lord Byron said that Madame de Staël was certainly the cleverest,
though not the most agreeable woman he had ever known. "She declaimed to you instead of conversing
with you," said he, "never pausing except to take breath; and if during that interval a rejoinder
was put in, it was evident that she did not attend to it, as she resumed the thread of her
discourse as though it had not been interrupted." This observation from Byron was amusing enough,
as we had all made nearly the same observation on him, with the exception that he listened
to, and noticed, any answer made to his reflections. "Madame de Staël," continued Byron, was
very eloquent when her imagination warmed, (and a very little excited it;) her powers of imagination
were much stronger than her reasoning ones, perhaps owing to their being much more frequently
exercised; her language was recondite, but redundant, and though always flowery, and often
brilliant there was an obscurity that left the impression that she did not perfectly understand
what she endeavoured to render intelligible to others. She was always losing herself in philosophical
disquisition, and once she got entangled in the mazes of the labyrinth of metaphysics; she
had no clue by which she could guide her path--the imagination that led her into her difficulties,
could not get her out of them; the want of a mathematical education, which might have served
as a ballast to steady and help her into the port of reason, was always visible, and though
she had great tact in concealing her defeat, and covering a retreat, a tolerable logician must
have always discovered the scrapes she got into. Poor dear Madame de Staël, I shall never forget
seeing her one day, at table with a large party, when the busk (I believe you ladies call it)
of her corset forced its way through the top of the corset, and would not descend though pushed
by all the force of both hands of the wearer, who became crimson from the operation. After
fruitless efforts, she turned in despair to the valet de chambre behind her chair, and requested
him to draw it out, which could only be done by his passing his hand from behind over her shoulder,
and across her chest, when, with a desperate effort, he unsheathed the busk. Had you seen the
faces of some of the English ladies of the party, you would have been like me, almost convulsed;
while Madame remained perfectly unconscious that she had committed any solecism on la décence
Anglaise. Poor Madame de Staël verified the truth of the lines--

  "Qui de son sexe n'a pas l'esprit,
  De son sexe a tout le malheur."

She thought like a man, but, alas! she felt like a woman; as witness the episode in her life
with Monsieur Rocca, which she dared not avow, (I mean her marriage with him,) because she
was more jealous of her reputation as a writer than a woman, and the faiblesse de coeur, this
alliance proved she had not courage to affiche.--New Monthly Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOPOGRAPHER.

       *       *       *       *       *

REMARKABLE CAVES AT CRAVEN, IN YORKSHIRE.

The village of Malham is situated in a deep and verdant bottom, defective only in wood, at
the union of two narrow valleys, respectively terminated at the distance of a mile by the Cove
and Gordale. The first of these is an immense crag of limestone, 286 feet high, stretched in
the shape of the segment of a large circle, across the whole valley, and forming a termination
at once so august and tremendous, that the imagination can scarcely figure any form or scale
of rock within the bounds of probability that shall go beyond it. The approach to this place,
before the invention of machinery, was solitary and characteristic. It is now polluted by one
of those manufactories, of which it would he trifling to complain as nuisances only in the
eye of taste. Yet there are streams sufficiently copious, and valleys sufficiently deep, which
man can neither mend nor spoil. These might be abandoned to such deformed monsters without
regret; but who that has either taste or eyes can endure them, when combined with such scenery
as the environs of Malham, or the Banks of the Wharf.

The approach to Gordale on the east side of the village, happily remains what nature left it,
a stony and desolate valley, without a single object to divert the eye from the scene before
it. This is a solid mass of limestone, of perhaps equal height with the Cove, cleft asunder
by some great convulsion of nature, and opening its "ponderous and marble jaws" on the right
and left. The sensation of horror on approaching it is increased by the projection of either
side from its base, so that the two connivant rocks, though considerably distant at the bottom,
admit only a narrow line of daylight from above. At the very entrance you turn a little to
the right, and are struck by a yawning mouth in the face of the opposite crag, whence the torrent
pent up beyond, suddenly forced a passage, within the memory of man, which at every swell continues
to spout out one of the boldest and most beautiful cataracts that can be conceived.

Wherever a cleft in the rock, or a lodgment of earth appears, the yew-tree, indigenous in such
situations, contrasts its deep and glossy green with the pale grey of the limestone; but the
goat, the old adventurous inhabitant of situations, inaccessible to every other quadruped,
has been lately banished from the sides of Gordale. But the wonders of this place are not confined
to its surface. In mining for lapis calaminaris, two caverns have been discovered near the
Tarn, which though of no easy access, will reward the enterprising visitant, not by the amplitude
of their dimensions, in which they are exceeded by several in Craven, but by that rich and
elaborate finishing which in the works of nature, as well as of art, is always required to
give an interest to diminutive objects. The first of these resembles a small rotunda, not more
than six yards in diameter, and five or six in height, but clothed with fleecy incrustations,
from which depend stalactites of various depth, and tinged with various hue, from the faintest
yellow to saffron. The lapidescent drops distilling from these through a long course of ages,
have gradually raised the floor of the cavern, so as to render it difficult to pass between
the edges of the new surface and the circumference of the cavern.

Beyond is a second excavation about fourteen yards long: ten in width, where broadest, and
eight in height; proportions which an architect would have chosen. At the highest extremity
of this appears a recess formed entirely of petrified matter, around which the irregular projections
of native rock are covered with an incrustation white as snow; and in many parts appear stalactites
suspended from point to point, like light festoons of ice, which, if struck, return all the
notes of musical glasses. In the midst of this recess arises from a pedestal, clear almost
as glass, an amber altar. Beneath, but still in the roof of the cavern, is another circular
excavation resembling an immense helmet, which seems to be lined with rich satin, and is fringed
with rows of yellow stalactite about the edges. Those who suffer their imaginations to wanton
in the scenes of subterranean demonology, may here discover the cabinet of the "Swart Faery
of the Mine," while the sober geologist will find matter of rational and curious speculation;
he will detect nature herself at work on a process uniformly advancing; so that by piercing
the perpendicular depth of the incrustation on the floor of the first cavern, and by comparing
with accuracy the additional laminae, which in a few years will be superinduced, he may ascertain
with tolerable exactness, the period which has elapsed since those mighty convulsions by which
these caverns have been produced.-- Whitaker's History of Craven.

       *       *       *       *       *

SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY

       *       *       *       *       *

M. Chaptal

M. Chaptal, the celebrated chemist, born at Montpellier in 1755, died a few days since at Paris,
in his 77th year. He studied medicine and natural philosophy when very young, and under promising
patronage. Before the Revolution he published some valuable works, and formed two or three
chemical establishments, and for his successful labours the King had given him the order of
St Michael. When the Revolution began, M. Chaptal headed the insurgents at Montpellier, who
took possession of the citadel in 1791.

The reputation of Chaptal as a chemist being well established, he was called to Paris in 1793,
by the committee of public safety, to be consulted relative to the making of gunpowder and
the production of saltpetre. It must be in the memory of all those who recollect the history
of the first years of the French Revolution, that the want of saltpetre, the principal ingredient
in gunpowder, had nearly put an end to the war; and as France had shut the ports of all nations
against herself, no other resource remained but to produce the saltpetre at home. Before Chaptal
was sent for, a manufactory, for this purpose, had been established at Grenelles, near Paris;
but it was insufficient for the immense demand. Chaptal soon, by his skill and activity, so
improved this establishment, that it supplied all that was wanted, and this at a time when
France had about 1,400,000 soldiers.[3]

    [3] The theory of this artificial formation of saltpetre is
    detailed by Chaptal, in Annales de Chimie, tom. xx.--The bulk
    of saltpetre used in this country is brought from the East
    Indies, where, at certain seasons of the year, it is found
    deposited on the surface of the soil. It is swept off once or
    twice a week, and as often renewed. At Apulia, near Naples,
    there is a bed containing 40 per cent. of it; and in Switzerland
    the farmers extract it in abundance from the earth under the
    stalls of the cattle. In the reign of Charles I. great attention
    was paid to the making of saltpetre in England. Certain
    patentees were authorized by royal proclamation to dig up the
    floors of all dove-houses, stables, &c. In France, the plaster
    of old walls is washed to separate the nitrate of lime, which is
    a soluble salt, and this, by means of potash, or muriate of
    potash, is afterwards converted into nitre. Mr. Bowles, in his
    Introduction to the Natural History of Spain, assures us there
    is enough saltpetre in that country to supply all Europe for
    ever.

Chaptal returned to Montpellier in 1794, and soon obtained a place in the administration of
the department of Herault, and a professorship of chemistry in the university of Montpellier,
which the Directory created expressly as a reward for his services. In 1798, Chaptal revisited
Paris, and aided the Revolution by which, in 1799, Buonaparte became First Consul. In the following
year Chaptal was made Minister of the Interior, in which important office he imparted new energy
to all the manufacturing establishments of France, as well as founded many public schools upon
improved systems of education. In 1804 he was dismissed from the Ministry for his refusing
to sanction a report stating sugar from beet-root to be superior to that from the cane.[4]

    [4] This was twenty-eight years since. A writer in an English
    journal observed three years since, "it is difficult to conceive
    that one half of the sugar consumed in Great Britain, or in all
    Europe, will not, in a few years, be home-made beet-root sugar."
    In France the manufacture of sugar from beet-root, like that of
    saltpetre, was dictated by necessity, the former through the
    capture of the French colonies by Great Britain, during the late
    war. It is now an important manufacture in that country, as well
    as a branch of domestic economy, the sugar being made by
    housewives, and requiring not more skill or trouble than
    cheese-making or brewing.

Chaptal now retired from political life, and established a chemical manufactory in the neighbourhood
of Paris; but he was soon after chosen a member of the Conservative Senate, and made grand
officer of the Legion of Honour. In 1806, he was present at the placing of the trophied column
in the Place Vendome, to commemorate the battle of Austerlitz. Chaptal was soon after made
a Count, and received the grand cross of the Legion of Honour.

In 1813, when the Allies began to approach the French frontiers, Chaptal was dispatched to
support the falling power of Napoleon; he failed to do so; and when the Austrians approached
the capital, he retired to Clermont, but after the taking of Paris he hastened to the city.
He was made a member of the Academy of Sciences upon its re-organization.

Upon the return of Napoleon from Elba, he named Chaptal director-general of manufactures and
commerce, and immediately after minister of state, in which latter capacity he pronounced,
in the name of all the ministers, a very flattering address to Napoleon. At the restoration
of the Bourbons, Chaptal again retired into private life, and continued to enjoy the society
of a large circle of literary and scientific friends till his death.

Upon the application of chemistry to the arts of life, Chaptal is considered to have been the
most distinguished writer of his time. His works are, Conspectus Physiologicus de Fontibus
differentiarum relat. ad Scientias, 1777; Analytical Table of a Course of Chemistry delivered
at Montpellier, 1783; Elements of Chemistry; Treatise on Saltpetre and Tar; a Table of the
principal Earthy Salts and Substances; an Essay on perfectioning the Chemical Art in France;
a Theoretical and Practical Treatise on the Cultivation of the Vine; the Art of making Wines,
&c.; the Art of Making, Managing, and Perfectioning Wines, a work which has been productive
of great improvement in the wines of many districts in France; the Art of Dyeing Cotton Red;
Chemistry applied to the Arts; the Chemical Principles of the Arts of Dyeing and Scouring.
M. Chaptal has also furnished many excellent articles to the Annals of Chemistry, and the Dictionary
of Agriculture. Among his miscellaneous productions, a paper on Geological Changes is entitled
to special mention as one of the most beautiful compositions of its class. He was a sickly
child, and consequently participated but little in children's pastimes. Youth--melancholy,
or early habits of reflection, and an independence on others for amusement or formation of
opinions were thus generated, which, operating on his exquisite organization, contributed to
make him the master-spirit of his age. Thus, in his autobiography and diary, it is highly instructive
to mark the effect of the various circumstances in which he was placed, on his train of thought.
Events, which on most children's minds "are only reflected as on looking-glasses but make no
impression," produced an effect on him of which the influence was never effaced. The coronation
of Joseph II. at Frankfort, the annual mass, and the noble old city itself, with its associations
of feudalism and German art, are portrayed by him seventy years after the feelings they had
excited, with all the vividness of yesterday's impressions. It is probable that no one ever
possessed such acute sensibility as Goethe. He could "hang a thought on every thorn."

Goethe's father was a man of easy circumstances, and of some literary merit: he had a great
love for the fine arts, and had made a small collection of objects of virtù in his travels
through Italy. All this worked on the young poet, and at eight or nine years old he wrote a
short description of twelve pictures, portraying the history of Joseph. At fifteen years of
age he went to the university of Leipsic, where he studied law; he took the degree of doctor
at Strasbourg. In 1768 he left Leipsic, and after a short tour settled for some time in Alsace,
where the beautiful Gretchen won his heart, and obtained for herself in Faust and Egmont, a
more lasting monument than brass. On leaving Alsace, he returned home; but soon left it again
to practise in the Imperial Chamber at Wezlar. Here he witnessed the tragical event that gave
rise to his romance of the Sorrows of Werter. In 1775, he went to Weimar, on an invitation
from the Grand Duke, and remained there till the end of his life, loaded with all the honours
a German sovereign could bestow, ennobled, a privy councillor, and for many years of his life
prime minister; "a treatment of genius hitherto unknown in the annals of literature, or of
Mecaenaship; and a splendid exception to the indifference with which rulers generally regard
intellectual excellence."

In 1786, Goethe travelled in Italy, from whence he went to Sicily, and then returned to Rome,
where he gave himself ardently up to the study of antiquities. At the end of three years he
returned to his own country, and settled at Weimar, which was then called the Athens of Germany.
Here were at that time a number of celebrated men, at the head of whom were Goethe, Wieland,
and Schiller. In this congenial society, Goethe resided till his death. A view of his house,
with an account of an interview with the poet, about five years since, by Dr. Granville, will
be found in The Mirror, vol. xviii. After the deaths of Wieland and Schiller, the reputation
of Goethe greatly increased. To form some idea of the sort of worship that was paid to him
in his own country, in his lifetime, it is only necessary to read the chapter of Madame de
Staël's Germany, dedicated to that subject. The admirers of Goethe formed a sort of sect, a
body amongst themselves, over whom, says Madame de Staël, the influence of Goethe was really
incomprehensible. Among the honours paid to him by the illustrious men of Europe, must not
be forgotten the tribute of Napoleon. When the Congress of Erfurt was held, Napoleon wished
to see Goethe, with whom he conversed for some time, and at the close of the conversation he
gave the poet the decoration of the Legion of Honour. In 1825, a splendid bronze medal was
struck by order of the Grand Duke, and presented to Goethe, to commemorate the fiftieth year
of the poet's residence at his court.

As Goethe wrote every sort of poem, from the simple ballad to the epic, and from a proverb
to a tragedy, a mere list of his works would occupy some columns. His first appearance in print
was in the annuals and literary journals. But his Gotz of the Iron Hand, published with his
name in 1773, and his Werther, in the year after, called at once the attention of his country
to the young master-mind. The influence of these two works on the literature of Germany was
electric. Hosts of imitators sprung up among the fruitful fry of small authors, and flourished
until Goethe himself, by his wit, his irony, and his eloquence, put an end to the sickly sentimentalism,
which he had first called into action. Gotz and Werther alone survive the creations of which
they formed the nucleii. Such a production as the first, indeed, at the age of twenty-three,
at once placed Goethe at the head of his country's literature, a place which he preserved undisputed
to the hour of his death.

We have referred to the multitudinous nature of the works of Goethe. Their variety was proportionate
to their number. It has been well observed that "his mind never seems to have grown old, but
to have presented a new phasis at each stage of his existence." Not satisfied by taking his
rank amongst the first poets of his time, his ardent genius led him to study all the different
branches of literature, physical science, natural history, and the fine arts. He alike delighted
in the imaginative beauty of poetry, and the abstrusest problems in science--the romantic and
the real--the creative fancy and unwearied research of a truly great mind. It is, however,
a matter of regret that Goethe was no politician. The character of his mind would not lead
the observer to expect this feature. "A chilling scepticism, as to the progressive improvement
of man, runs through all his writings, and, of course, prevented all attempts to make human
institutions more productive of human happiness." Nevertheless, it may be urged, that social
amelioration may he effected by other means than by direct problems of political economy, unfashionable
as the doctrine may sound. Chateaubriand has eloquently written "there is nothing beautiful,
sweet, or grand in life, but in its mysteries." Goethe probably entertained a kindred sentiment.
Thus, the calculator may reckon him "behind the age," or his favourite views of human improvement.

Goethe remained single till his fifty-eighth year, when he married his housekeeper, by whom
he had a family. His affection for his son, who died about two years since, was unbounded.
After his death, Goethe was but the shadow of that which he once had been. To his daughter-in-law
he was indebted for that tenderness and assiduity which soothed his declining years. When upwards
of eighty years of age, he meditated literary projects with the vigour and enthusiasm of youthful
genius. Indeed, his constitution was unimpaired, and seemed to promise some years of life:
his death therefore excited at Weimar, a feeling of surprise as well as sorrow.

The last moments of Goethe were those of an unbroken mind--a bright light waning and glimmering
out. He had not the slightest presentiment of his death. About a week before, he caught cold,
which brought on a catarrh. It was thought that his powerful constitution was unattacked. He
conversed with great serenity, particularly upon his theory of colours, which so powerfully
occupied his mind to the last moment of his existence. On the evening of March 21, he explained
to his daughter the conditions of the peace of Basle; desired that the children should be taken
to the theatre; and said that he was much better; he requested that Salvandy's Sixteen Months
might be handed to him, although his physician had forbidden him all laborious occupation;
but the doctor having gone out for a few moments, he ordered lights to be brought, and attempted
to read. Not being able to do so, he held the book for some moments before him, and then said,
"Well, let us do at least as the Mandarins do:" he fell asleep, and his slumbers appeared light
and refreshing. Next day he conversed cheerfully with his daughter, his grandchildren, and
some friends. "At seven o'clock he desired his daughter to bring him a portfolio, to enable
him to illustrate some phenomena of colouring, and he began with his right hand to trace some
characters in the air. Towards ten o'clock he ceased almost entirely to speak, held firmly
between his own the hand of his daughter who was by his side, and turned his eyes, already
half-closed, towards her with an expression of tenderness: with her other hand she supported
his head on a pillow until he breathed his last, without convulsion or suffering."[5] His daughter
closed the fine eyes of the poet, and summoning her children to behold their grandfather for
the last time, she rushed from the chamber of death, and gave vent to a flood of grief. Another
account states that Goethe growing weaker and weaker, his hand dropped on his knee, where it
still moved as if in the act of writing, till the angel of death summoned him.

    [5] Monthly Magazine, July.

The remains of the poet, after lying in state in the hall of his mansion for five hours, were
deposited, on March 26, in the grand ducal family vault at Weimar near to those of Schiller.
On the same day, the theatre which had been closed from respect to his memory, was opened with
the representation of his Tasso. An epilogue was composed for the occasion by Chancellor Muller,
the intimate friend of Goethe. Its last stanza produced a profound impression upon the audience:--"The
spot where great men have exercised their genius remains for ever sacred. The waves of time
silently efface the hours of life; but not the great works which they have seen produced. What
the power of genius has created, is rarified like the air of the Heavens,--its apparition is
fugitive,--its works are eternal."

Goethe has left several MSS. for publication. Among them is a volume of his early life in Weimar,
a volume of poems, the second part of "Faust," interesting letters, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEAR-HUNTING IN CANADA.

(From a Backwoodsman's Sketches.[6])

    [6] Published by Murray, Albemarle Street. (To a Correspondent,
    J.F., Lambeth Terrace.)

When a bear runs away with one of your pigs, there is no use in going after him, hallooing,
without a gun. You may scare him away from the mutilated carcass, but it will make but indifferent
pork; since not being bred in Leadenhall or Whitechapel, he has but a slovenly way of slaughtering.
But trace to where he has dragged it, and near sunset let self and friend hide themselves within
easy distance, and he will be certain to come for his supper, which, like all sensible animals,
he prefers to every other meal. Nay, it is highly probable, if he possesses the gallantry which
a well-bred bear ought to have, he will bring Mrs. Bruin and all the children along with him,
and you can transact business with the whole family at once. In hunting the bear, take all
the curs in the village along with you. Game dogs are useless for this purpose; for, unless
properly trained, they fly at the throat, and get torn to pieces or hugged to death for their
pains. The curs yelp after him, bite his rump, and make him tree, where he can be shot. The
bear of Canada is seldom dangerous. He is always ready to enter into a treaty, similar to what
my Lord Brougham negotiated lately with Lord Londonderry, viz. let-be for let-be--but if wounded,
he is dangerous in the extreme. You should always, therefore, hunt him in couples, and have
a shot in reserve, or a goodly cudgel, ready to apply to the root of his nose, where he is
as vulnerable as Achilles was in the heel. Some ludicrous stories are told of bear-hunting;
for Bruin is rather a humorist in his way. A friend of mine, with his surveying party, ten
men in all, once treed a very large one; they immediately cut clubs, and set to work to fell
the tree. Bruin seemed inclined to maintain his position, till the tree began to lean, when
he slid down to about fifteen feet from the ground, and then clasped his fore-paws over his
head and let himself tumble amongst them. Every club was raised, but Bruin was on the alert;
he made a charge, upset the man immediately in front, and escaped with two or three thumps
on the rump, which he valued not one pin. When once they have killed a pig, if you do not manage
to kill the bear, you will never keep one hog; for they will come back till they have taken
the last of them;--they will even invade the sacred precincts of the hog-sty. An Irishman in
the Newcastle district once caught a bear flagrante delicto, dragging a hog over the walls
of the pew. Pat, instead of assailing the bear, thought only of securing his property; so he
jumped into the sty, and seized the pig by the tail. Bruin having hold of the ears, they had
a dead pull for possession, till the whillilooing of Pat, joined to the plaintive notes of
his protegé, brought a neighbour to his assistance, who decided the contest in Pat's favour
by knocking the assailant on the head.--A worthy friend of mine, of the legal profession, and
now high in office in the colony, once, when a young man, lost his way in the woods, and seeing
a high stump, clambered up it with the hope of looking around him. While standing on the top
of it for this purpose, his foot slipped, and he was precipitated into the hollow of the tree,
beyond the power of extricating himself. Whilst bemoaning here his hard fate, and seeing no
prospect before him, save that of a lingering death by starvation, the light above his head
was suddenly excluded, and his view of the sky, his only prospect, shut out by the intervention
of a dense medium, and by and by he felt the hairy posteriors of a bear descend upon him. With
the courage of despair he seized fast hold of Bruin behind, and by this means was dragged once
more into upper day. Nothing, surely, but the instinct of consanguinity could have induced
Bruin thus to extricate his distressed brother.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHOLERA IN INDIA.

Captain Skinner, in one of his Excursions, says arriving at the village of Lugrassa, I thought
there was an appearance of desolation about it. I saw no people within the village, and observed
merely a few stragglers about the fields. Four or five men had died during the last week, and
some before: such mortality would depopulate a mountain city in a month. Nothing can be more
melancholy than a pestilence among these fragments of humanity: cut off from their fellow-mountaineers
by high ridges, these isolated little communities are left to perish unknown and unmourned.

I have learned from some natives, who have lately been at Badri Nath, that that neighbourhood
also has been ravaged by the cholera morbus. They cannot check the disease: it seizes them
in all situations--in their houses--in the fields; and in a very few hours they are its victims.
As the most hardy fall first, the infants, deprived of their protectors, should they escape
the infection, must die of starvation. The cattle are abandoned, the crops neglected, and every
traveller shuns the "city of the plague:" and even that precaution is no security. Pilgrims
die in agony on the road: to enter one of these little vales is indeed to enter "the valley
of the shadow of death."--The inhabitants resign themselves to their destiny: the same fate
would await them in a neighbouring village, perhaps, should they seek refuge there. They cling
to their homes to the last gasp; and the survivor of a once happy people, where all were gay
but a few days before, has to steal to his grave unnoticed, or roam elsewhere for human intercourse.
Could the vision of "the Last Man" be ever realized, it would be in the highest habitations
of the Himalaya mountains; for there many a little world is left for its last man to mourn over!

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW BOOKS

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARLEMAGNE.

