SER. XXVI. REV. DR. LELAND. SER. XXVII. REV. MR. BALDWIN

Vol. 2 No. 7 Dec. 1827.

THE NATIONAL PREACHER: OR ORIGINAL MONTHLY SERMONS

EDITED BY REV. AUSTIN DICKINSON, NEW YORK.

TO THE REVEREND CLERGY:--

The undersigned proposes to commence another Periodical, of original plan and character, provided
that adequate pledges of supplies shall be furnished. The Work to bear the following title,
or something similar, viz.:

=THE AMERICAN PASTOR'S JOURNAL:=

OR

Original Sketches of real Characters, Conversations, and striking Facts. Furnished chiefly
by Clergymen.

The following imperfect sketch of topics to be embraced, may serve to illustrate the plan:--1.
Instances of very early piety.--2. Striking results of Parental faithfulness, or unfaithfulness;
of filial respect, or disrespect.--3. Cases of individuals raised from deep obscurity, or wickedness,
to eminent usefulness.--4. Remarkable cases of conviction.--5. Cases of great hardness of heart,
from resisting convictions.--6. Distinctly marked cases of submission and conversion to God.--7.
Cases of awful relapse into sin.--8. Cases of strong temptation and trial.--9. Cases of strong
faith and confidence in God.--10. Peculiarly manifest interpositions of Providence, in mercy
or judgment.--11. Instances of the wrath of man being made to praise God.--12. Cases illustrative
of the influence of piety on the intellectual powers.--13. Instances of extraordinary beneficence
or covetousness.--14. Death-bed scenes, of the Christian, the backslider, the infidel, the
universalist, the profane man, or the worldling.

It is conceived that the very existence of such a Periodical might be the means of leading
Clergymen, in their pastoral intercourse, to be more observant of character, more discriminating
in their views of human nature, and more disposed to record and rescue from oblivion striking
conversations and facts. No species of knowledge can be more interesting or more useful, than
that thus drawn from real life;--especially from portions of life most intimately connected
with spiritual and eternal realities. If it is all-important that masters in surgery and medicine
record, for mutual improvement, and for the benefit of mankind, striking cases which occur
in their practice; it cannot, surely, be less important, that those who watch for the life
of souls, should preserve similar records. It would seem as though, from the daily intercourse
of several thousand Clergymen, such materials, of the character contemplated, might be furnished,
as, if well condensed and judiciously arranged in an elegant Periodical, would not fail to
be read with intense and general interest. And who can tell, but that God, who is rich in wisdom,
may thus employ the simplest means for collecting, condensing, and reflecting rays of sacred
truth, in the form of practical results, which may carry conviction and saving instruction
to uncounted millions--not merely in our own land, but in more populous countries, where the
importance of experimental religion is not appreciated?

But, for rendering such a work pre-eminently useful, or even commencing it, there must be union
of effort. As it is intended to consist wholly of original matter, and that of a specific character,
such as no genius can originate, it is obvious that it cannot be commenced, without being furnished
with numerous pledges of supplies. And it will be important to have a considerable number of
communications on hand, at the commencement, as well as afterwards, that due regard may be
had to order in the arrangement of subjects, and an interesting variety be presented in every
Number.

It will not be necessary to publish the names of writers, nor of individuals alluded to in
communications; though in many cases it may be desirable and expedient. But, in every case,
the name of the writer, or some respectable reference for attesting the accuracy of statements,
must be furnished to the Editor; as he must be responsible to the public for the correctness
of whatever may appear in the work. He will moreover think it his duty to present Contributors
a generous compensation.

MINISTERS, of different Christian denominations, willing to aid in executing the design, are
affectionately requested to write as soon as practicable--either furnishing matter for publication,
or stating definitely, when and how much aid may be expected. If the work is ably supported
by the co-operation of Clergymen, the Editor does not hesitate to say, that he will at least
circulate thousands and tens of thousands of copies gratuitously, and thus afford Contributors
the best of all rewards--the opportunity of doing extensive good.

That the blessing of God Almighty may crown the enterprise, is the humble prayer of His servant,

AUSTIN DICKINSON.

=CONTRIBUTORS.=

Upwards of fifty Clergymen, of five Christian denominations, and belonging to sixteen different
States, most of whom are well known to the public as Authors, have encouraged the Editor to
expect from them Sermons for the Preacher.

       *       *       *       *       *

=TO THE ENTERPRISING.=

Persons having expressed a disposition to circulate this Work, provided postage could be avoided;
we would say to such, that for ten or more Subscribers, who pay at one time in advance, or
on first receiving Numbers, a deduction from the price of One Dollar a year may be made, equal
to the annual postage. And in such cases money may be forwarded without being post-paid. Experience
shows, there is no mode of conveyance safer than the Mail. NO. 7.

=SERMON XXVI.=

By AARON W. LELAND, D.D.

CHARLESTON, S. CAROLINA.

THE PURE GOSPEL REJECTED BY THE PERISHING.

1 COR. I. 18.--For the preaching of the cross is, to them that perish, foolishness.

In the Christian revelation, there is an evident purpose of infinite wisdom, that in all the
provisions for man's salvation, his moral agency should be left free and uncontrolled. Instead
of accommodation to human prejudices, there is ample scope for captious objections. And if
additional proof were needed, of the divine origin of the Bible, it would be found in this
characteristic. Were it a system agreeable to the narrow views, in unison with the selfish
feelings, and gratifying to the depraved taste of human nature, it would more resemble the
fabrication of man, than the workmanship of God. But as the current of its doctrines is so
entirely opposed to our natural inclinations, as to render a moral renovation indispensable
to a perception of the glory of revealed truth; all such ground of skepticism is removed.

Thus the obscurities and difficulties of revelation are admirably adapted to exhibit human
character, and constitute this state of existence a real probation. For if the light of truth
came upon the mind with resistless energy, and the operations of the divine government were
clearly disclosed; if the motives and designs of infinite wisdom were fully explained, and
the realities of the spiritual world completely laid open to view; one principal aim of this
dispensation would be frustrated. On the one hand, there would be no field for the exercise
of faith and humble confidence on the part of Christians; and thus a precious test of their
submission and obedience would be destroyed. On the other, there could not be a full disclosure
of the true feelings of the unrenewed heart. Because, as all would be evident as the noon-day
sun, there would remain no choice in the matter of embracing the truth--no means of evincing
whether its reception were cordial or compulsory.

In this respect; there is displayed a matchless skill, as well as a gracious condescension,
in adapting revelation to the actual character and condition of our race. While sufficient
light is afforded to guide the sincere inquirer, there is an obscurity to perplex and offend
the proud and self-confident. While the truth is accompanied by evidence abundantly satisfactory
to every mind open to conviction, enough of mystery remains, to form an impassable barrier
to those who are inclined to disbelieve the testimony of God. While to the eye of faith there
appears a glorious system of wisdom and mercy, depraved reason and prejudice may discover little
else than an assemblage of inconsistencies and absurdities.

It is not without design, then, that the great facts of revelation are made liable to misrepresentation;
that its essential principles are arrayed against the pride of human wisdom; and that its blessed
institutions are so obnoxious to abuse and opposition. Such a constitution of things is evidently
intended to furnish a decisive criterion of human character--to exhibit, in striking contrast,
the humble votaries of faith, who reverently bow to the authority of Scripture; and the adherents
of a haughty, self-confident rationality, who will receive the testimony of God himself, no
farther than it accords with their opinions and prejudices--and thus to elicit a fair and full
manifestation of every man's real disposition and feelings.

Such, uniformly, has been the effect of the Bible, wherever its sacred contents have been made
known. To all who have received it with penitence, humility, and confidence, as the infallible
word of God, it has proved their pleasure and delight--their fountain of consolation--their
guide to peace: while the self-righteous and unbelieving have transformed it into a subject
of perplexity and disputation--a cause of deeper guilt and more aggravated ruin. The Gospel
has appeared transcendently beautiful and glorious to all who have been savingly enlightened
by the Holy Spirit--while, to the impenitent and skeptical, it seems obscure, irrational, and
incomprehensible. The former rejoice in the scriptures, just as they are, and willingly yield
to the obedience of faith: the latter are ever anxious to lower the standard of divine truth
to the level of their views of fitness, and to mould its materials into a form suited to their
unholy inclinations.

On these principles it is easy to perceive the real nature and causes of the insidious warfare,
which is maintained, in various forms, against the essential doctrines of the Gospel. It is
just an effusion of the malignity of the unsanctified heart. Its prevalence is an exact fulfilment
of prophecy; and therefore an irrefragable proof of the truth and divine authority of that
system which it is labouring to destroy. The emphatic declaration of the apostle, in the text,
strikingly describes the state of feeling which now actually prevails, among many who enjoy
all the external privileges of the Christian dispensation--The preaching of the cross is, to
them that perish, foolishness.

In illustration of this passage, it will be attempted, to explain the import of the phrase,
the preaching of the cross--to enumerate some of the instances and causes of such preaching
being accounted foolishness--and to describe the fearful state and prospects of those who hold
it in such low estimation.

The preaching of the cross is a plain and full announcement of all the essential truths of
that system which provides pardon and salvation for the lost and guilty. The cross is the symbol
of that amazing expedient of infinite wisdom and mercy, by which a treaty of reconciliation
is offered to convicted traitors against Jehovah's government. Its exhibition therefore must
require a developement of the principles, and a defence of the doctrines, peculiar to this
gracious dispensation.

The grand fact, which constitutes the very essence and glory of the Gospel, and which it is
the leading object of the Christian ministry to announce; is, that He, who took upon himself
the form of a servant, and offered up the sacrifice of Calvary, is God over all, blessed for
ever. This gives to the cross all its glory and efficacy. It is on the supreme Deity of Christ--on
the expiation made for sin by the Maker and Sovereign of worlds--that the whole fabric of evangelical
truth rests. On any other supposition, the sacrifice of the cross was a very ordinary affair.
If the Saviour of sinners be not God--if he be a created being, of whatever grade,--where is
the mystery of Godliness?--Where those unfathomable depths of divine love, into which the angels
desire to look? If Christ be only a servant of God, however exalted, what was there, in his
appearance on our world, to constitute a new era in heaven, and to fill its inhabitants with
astonishment and ecstasy? Did the heavenly host descend in rapture, and cause the mountains
of Judea to reecho with their acclamations, because a dependent creature had consented to do
his Maker's will? Whence the ascription of glory to God in the highest, and why do the courts
above resound with a new song of praise to God for his redeeming mercy, if this redemption
was effected by the labours and sufferings of one inferior to the Deity? Was such a dispensation
as that of Moses, designed simply to prepare the way for a messenger of God to declare his
will, and to seal the testimony with his blood, as many good men have done, both before and
since? Why did patriarchs and prophets foretell his coming, and celebrate his praises?--Why
did the continual offering of divinely appointed sacrifices, for many centuries, typify his
sufferings?--And why did nature shudder, and shroud herself in darkness, at the consummation
of those sufferings? All these things are utterly inexplicable, on the supposition that Christ
is a created dependent being.

But view him as God manifest in the flesh--view him as voluntarily laying aside his glory,
and descending from the throne of infinite majesty, to assume the nature, and expiate the guilt
of a ruined race;--and we are struck with the appropriateness of all the attending circumstances.
The splendid ceremonials of the Jewish ritual, and the raptured songs of prophets and of angels
were well employed to prepare the way for the visible manifestation of Deity among men. The
annunciation of the divine nature of the Redeemer must, therefore, be an essential part of
the preaching of the cross.

Equally indispensable is a decided testimony to that perfect atonement for sin, which was made
by this great offering. Here is the only foundation of human hope. This was the grand object
accomplished by the Saviour's sufferings. Thus was completely solved the mysterious problem,
which all created intelligences had deemed inexplicable--how sin could be remitted, without
infringing the rights and tarnishing the honour of the divine government--and how the guilty
could be rescued from wrath, without a forfeiture of the divine veracity. Never indeed was
the divine law so completely vindicated, or the claims of justice so awfully asserted, as when
the Lawgiver offered himself as a ransom. And no other possible manifestation of the malignity
and atrocity of sin, of the divine abhorrence of all iniquity, and, at the same time, of the
exhaustless treasures of redeeming mercy, could equal that which was witnessed on Calvary.
As, therefore, Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so is the cross to be held up
now, by its heralds, to a perishing world. Its atoning sacrifice is to be proclaimed, and its
purchased blessings offered to lost sinners, as their only hope--their only remedy.

Another important part of the preaching of the cross consists in a full disclosure of the entire
depravity and helplessness of our fallen nature. This doctrine lies at the foundation of Christianity.
It is from the corruption of our race, the dominion of spiritual death, and the actual sentence
of condemnation, that the necessity arises for so great salvation. If hope could have been
afforded from any other source, if there had been any possibility of the sinner's expiating
his own guilt, and restoring himself to the divine favour, the great Sacrifice would never
have been offered. But until men are convinced of their apostacy and corruption, they will
never be persuaded of the truth and necessity of the great atonement. And until they feel themselves
justly condemned, and utterly helpless, they will never come as humble suppliants to a Saviour's
feet.

The work of the Holy Spirit, in enlightening and renewing the hearts of sinners, and thus carrying
on to their accomplishment the purposes of divine mercy, forms also an important portion of
the message of the Gospel. It is the glorious achievement of the cross, to slay the enmity
and subdue the stubbornness of the sinful heart: and the infinite blessing purchased by the
Saviour's blood, is the gift of the Holy Spirit, to effectuate that transformation of character,
that spiritual regeneration, without which salvation is utterly impossible. The preaching of
the cross, therefore, must include an unwavering declaration, that the working of regeneration
and the renewing of the Holy Ghost are indispensable to salvation.

It is moreover essential to a faithful preaching of the cross, that justification by faith
in Christ, should be distinctly declared as the only ground of a sinner's hope. That view of
the Gospel which represents it as bestowing upon man a power of fulfilling God's holy law--or
as so lowering its demands as to render his imperfect obedience acceptable--is most dishonourable
to God, and ruinous to the souls of men. No such provisions are found in the treaty of reconciliation
sent from Heaven. So far from abrogating, the Gospel exalts and honours the law. So far from
diminishing its strictness, it adds emphasis to its claims, and fully meets its unmitigated
requisitions. Most gloriously has Christ vindicated the divine justice, by receiving its avenging
sword in his own bosom, as the Substitute, or surety for sinners; and most effectually has
he provided for their salvation, by rendering the exercise of pardoning mercy consistent with
the principles of the divine government, and by working out for them a perfect righteousness,
which may render them just before God. By faith, the penitent sinner receives all these blessings--is
rescued from wrath, delivered from the guilt and bondage of sin, and made a child of God, and
an heir of eternal life. Thus the triumph of the cross is complete, the pride of human merit
is humbled in the dust, and all the glory of the salvation of sinners is rendered to the riches
of redeeming mercy.

In fine, the preaching of the cross includes a faithful denunciation of eternal misery, as
the inevitable doom of all who pass from this state of probation, unrenewed by the Spirit of
grace, unwashed in the blood of the Lamb.

Such are the essential principles of that system of redemption, which engaged the counsels
of heaven from eternity; and which was carried into effect, not like the work of creation,
by a single word of the Son of God, but by his assuming human nature, enduring a long exile
of toil and reproach, and humbling himself unto death, even the death of the cross.

With what gratitude, then, ought this Gospel to be received by the guilty, perishing creatures,
for whose rescue from perdition it is designed. How should this display of divine compassion
melt and captivate the hearts of those, whose sins have been thus expiated, and for whom an
offer of free pardon and endless blessedness has been thus dearly purchased.

But be astonished, O heavens, at this--these tidings of salvation are received by many with
chilling indifference--the sufferings of the cross are regarded with unconcern--the treaty
of reconciliation, written in atoning blood, is by some contemptuously disregarded--by others
repelled with determined opposition. These appalling facts display more of the malignity of
sin, its blinding, deadening influence, and more of the rancorous enmity of the carnal heart
against God, than all the other enormities which blacken the world's history. All other crimes
appear less atrocious than this scorn of a Saviour's love--this trampling under foot the blood
of the covenant. While no finite mind could have conceived it possible, that Almighty love
should be so slighted, yet the Spirit of prophecy announced this impious ingratitude, long
before the incarnation. When Isaiah saw the glory of Christ, and spake of him, he also saw
that he would be despised and rejected of men. And by all their hostility to the doctrines
of grace, sinners are only verifying the description, which inspiration gave long ago, of their
blindness and perverseness. By all their vain reasonings and presumptuous objections, they
just corroborate revealed truth, and evince the desperate wickedness of the natural heart.

As in the days of the apostles, so in this period of increased light, the preaching of the
cross is esteemed foolishness. The message of redeeming mercy is often received with utter
listlessness--often with an evident disgust--and sometimes with an openly avowed hostility.
In the apostolic age, it might be supposed that the resistance, with which the Gospel had to
contend, arose from the prejudices of a Heathen or Jewish education, and from a very imperfect
knowledge of Christianity. But, at the present period, the undiminished hostility, which is
displayed against the pure doctrines of redemption, can be attributed to nothing, but that
hatred to the ways of God, which the Scriptures represent as rankling in the natural heart,
and for which they contain the only remedy.

It requires but a transient view of the religious state, even of enlightened and refined society,
to see that to very many, now, the preaching of the cross is foolishness. While any temporal
interest excites feeling, this theme is listened to with apathy. O, how often are those statements,
which fill heaven with ecstasy, rehearsed to vacant, listless hearers! How many weep at fictitious
woes, who contemplate the bloody scene of Calvary without a tear! How many hearts glow in admiration
of the benevolence or heroism of a fellow worm, while entirely unaffected alike by the sacrifice
or the triumph of the Son of God! How often do men express sentiments of the most fervent gratitude
towards earthly benefactors, who would be ashamed of uttering one emotion of thanks to Him
who gave himself to die for them! And is not this treating the Gospel as foolishness? But this
heartless unconcern, criminal as it undoubtedly is, in the sight of God, is not so fearfully
impious--affords not so appalling a disclosure of depravity, as the absolute disgust and contempt,
with which the doctrines of the cross are sometimes received. In almost every community, there
are those who utterly despise the whole system--who do not disguise their abhorrence--and who
evidently hate the very mention of the subject. How indignant are such at any effort, in private
conversation, to urge upon their attention themes connected with the dying love of Christ!
How chilling is the effect, when such discourse is attempted, in many circles of refinement
and elegance? And what a brand of infamy is affixed to the human character, by the fact, that
from most such circles all these topics are absolutely excluded! Let a man confine his conversation
to such subjects as engaged the attention of Christ and his apostles--such subjects as now
employ the hosts of heaven,--let him be accustomed in company, to bring forward the holy mysteries
of redemption,--and by how many would he be shunned like a pestilence? And with what scornful
hatred are those churches avoided by many, where nothing is heard but Jesus Christ and him
crucified? Such are the open, unequivocal expressions of contempt and disgust, with which many
treat the doctrines of the cross. Do not they esteem them foolishness?

But there is a class of the contemners of evangelical truth, characterized by more active zeal
and decided measures. Far from the giddy thoughtlessness of those who hardly reflect upon the
subject at all, and from the strange inconsistency of such, as profess to respect what they
really despise and hate,--these feel and express a deep interest in religious opinions; devote
time and attention to theological studies; and, as the result of their investigations, avow
their utter disbelief of the peculiar doctrines of the cross; and undertake to demonstrate
their falsehood and absurdity. They tell you, they have maturely examined the whole subject--that
they have brought to the investigation all the aid that extensive reading and critical research
can furnish--that they have carried the lights of science and philosophy into the dark regions
of fanaticism--and have become perfectly convinced, that the whole system is an assemblage
of the grossest errors. When, however, the array of argument is produced, its force seems to
consist in the unwelcome impressions which the pure Gospel itself makes upon their minds. They
can see no wisdom or fitness in such an atonement. They see nothing so very terrible in sin,
as to require such an expiation. Pardoning mercy, say they, is one of the natural attributes
of Deity; and the doctrine of eternal punishment seems to them too horribly inconsistent with
divine justice to bear reflection. As for the substitution of the innocent for the guilty,
and satisfying the claims of law by the blood of a sinless victim, they are amazed that any
rational man can credit such absurd notions. Tell them of the maladies and wounds of the soul,
which can only be healed by the Physician of Calvary--they can hardly conceal their contempt.
Tell them plainly, as the Bible does, that they are lost, perishing sinners--that the wrath
of God is revealed against them--that the avenging sword is uplifted, and that, unless they
fly to the cross and embrace it by a living faith, they must sink to perdition--and you will
witness the smile of derision or the frown of indignation. They esteem the doctrine of the
Trinity as a monument of human credulity and folly. Their feelings are shocked beyond measure,
at the incarnation of Deity, in the person of Jesus Christ. The personality and direct influences
of the Holy Spirit appear useless and incredible; and the necessity of a change of heart excites
their utter scorn. They cannot endure it. Their disgust is inexpressible.

Instead, therefore, of these offensive principles, they substitute a system, not modelled from
the Bible, but from what they consider reason and propriety. This they adorn with all that
is beautiful and attractive to the carnal eye. Before this fair and flattering idol, of their
own workmanship, they bow down in delighted homage. This is a religion they can love, for it
flatters, exalts, and dignifies human nature! But as for human depravity, and other hated doctrines
of the orthodox creed, they want words to express their aversion. The simple account of the
matter is, that the preaching of the cross, in their estimation, is foolishness.

Such are the various grades of hostility to the vital principles of the Gospel, from contemptuous
indifference, to malignant and rancorous opposition.

We now proceed to enumerate some of the causes, of this deplorable state of feeling towards
the truth as it is in Jesus.

The depravity--the unholiness--of human nature, may be considered the grand cause of all the
enmity which has appeared against the doctrines of grace. It is true, nevertheless, that the
various degrees and forms, in which this enmity is manifested, depend upon the peculiarities
of individual character and situation.

Destitution of early religious instruction, generally leads to an entire indifference to the
whole subject. Persons who are brought up in prayerless, worldly families--whose young minds
are not moulded by a pious influence--are usually found very insusceptible of religious impressions.
In such hearts the power of ungodliness reigns uncontrolled. Uncultivated and waste, they produce
nothing but thorns and briers. Nor is it surprising, that this numerous class of the hearers
of the Gospel should exhibit an utter disregard and contempt of its authority. The preaching
of the cross is foolishness to them, because they do not understand it, and will not take the
trouble to examine it.

A similar apathy is frequently observed in persons who have been well instructed, when their
whole souls have become engrossed in some worldly pursuit. Their heads and hands are so entirely
occupied, that serious reflection is absolutely excluded.

Contempt of evangelical religion is sure to be exhibited in places where its professors are
asleep or dead. In communities where real religion flourishes, where its power is felt, and
its votaries are consistent and decided; whatever hatred may rankle in the breasts of opposers,
they are not apt to indulge in contemptuous derision. But where formality and worldliness prevail,
and no conspicuous standard of Christian character is visible--the hearts of sinners will be
manifested. They will, without hesitation, avow, in how low and degrading a light they regard
the doctrines of the cross. Their contempt and loathing are wholly irrepressible.

In many instances, the pride of rank and intellect is the cause why the preaching of the cross
is utterly despised and accounted foolishness. The lofty speculations of an aspiring intellect
can with difficulty come down to the simplicity of the Gospel. The command, to come to the
Saviour's feet with the humility of a little child, fills the proud heart of those who are
wise in their own eyes, with indignation. They cannot endure doctrines, which level all vain
distinctions, and require the noble, the affluent, and the learned, to assume the same station
of penitence and contrition, with the lowliest peasant. They cannot consent to lay their honours
in the dust, and address themselves only to sovereign mercies. It is beyond endurance, that
the messages of grace should come to them, as condemned, guilty, and perishing sinners; and
that as such they should be invited to the cross. Hence the scornful air, the undissembled
disgust, with which so many, in high life, turn their backs upon the preaching of the cross.
And hence, encouraged by their example, multitudes cluster round the standard of a haughty
and malignant opposition to the Gospel.

While thus so many regard the preaching of the cross as foolishness, and earnestly wish it
were utterly false; it is not wonderful, that efforts should be made to prove that it actually
is so. Probably some, engaged in this opposition, are perfectly sincere, and actually suppose,
as Saul of Tarsus did, that they are doing God service, by combating the doctrines of the cross.
But whoever obeys the natural dictates of his own heart, and submits himself to the guidance
of his own perverted, blinded reason, refusing to supplicate the illuminations of divine grace,
will be likely to come under the power of strong delusion to believe a lie.

One other cause of opposition to the Gospel is found in the absolute contrariety of its requisitions,
to the habits of life, which men have contracted, and which they are resolved not to abandon.
While the preaching of the cross prescribes, as indispensable to salvation, conditions with
which many, who have no doubt of being saved, wholly refuse to comply; and while it declares
that eternal perdition will be the result of a course, which they are determined to pursue;
it must be the object of their settled detestation. Hence the love of sinful pursuits and gratifications,
and an invincible repugnance to a life of devotion, are the true reasons why many esteem the
preaching of the cross foolishness.

It ought, however, to be kept in mind, while these causes are recounted, that the operation
of each of them is rendered more efficacious, by the agency of that spirit of darkness, that
worketh in the children of disobedience. To increase disgust against the plan of redemption,
to exasperate the natural enmity of the carnal heart, to give a specious appearance to objections,
and to enforce, with seductive arguments, the cause of unbelief, is the untiring employment
of the grand foe of God and man. It is indeed the darling achievement of infernal skill, to
inflate a poor worm with pride of talent, and fill his heart with hatred to the Gospel, and
then persuade him that his hatred arises from its falsehood and absurdity. No event can afford
the tempter greater joy, than success in persuading perishing sinners to reject the only possible
way of escape from eternal death, and to contemn, as foolishness, that doctrine which is the
wisdom of God and the power of God to salvation to every one that believeth.

It only remains, that we briefly describe the fearful condition and prospects of all to whom
the preaching of the cross is foolishness.

And here we have only to repeat the decision of the Searcher of hearts--the Judge of the quick
and dead. His infallible Spirit has, in our text, divulged the tremendous fact, that the indifference,
contempt, and disgust, which have now been described, are characteristics of THEM THAT PERISH.
This authority, as well as the nature of the case, renders it certain, that all, who indulge
such feelings, are in the gall of bitterness and under the bond of iniquity--dead in trespasses
and sins--treasuring up wrath against the day of wrath. Nothing short of utter blindness of
mind can be insensible to the glory of the Gospel--nothing but entire depravity of heart can
render its doctrines offensive--and nothing but the most obdurate impenitency can resist the
melting influence of a Saviour's dying love. It is utterly impossible, that a scornful neglect
or disregard of the preaching of the cross should exist, without fearful guilt and imminent
danger. All those, among the hearers of the gospel, who will finally be children of wrath,
are now characterized by such guilt. And all the lost spirits in the world of wo, who once
enjoyed the offers of mercy, cherished the same fatal feelings towards the plan of redemption.
It was foolishness to them. Many, even in this land of light, seem to be ripening for the same
tremendous doom. Whether in the ranks of open opposition, or under the false colours of pretended
regard, the deadly symptom is upon them--a settled disgust and aversion to the preaching of
the cross. Is there not then, appalling evidence, that those, who hold such preaching in contempt,
occupy very perilous ground, and exhibit fearful tokens of the divine abandonment? And especially
might not the angels in heaven tremble for those, who have enjoyed great light and privileges--have
witnessed rich displays of divine grace--and have once felt a deep solicitude for their own
souls--but who now despise and hate those truths, and that cause, which they were once almost
persuaded to embrace?

How clearly and terribly, my hearers, does this subject discover the ungodliness of the unrenewed
heart. Those feelings of contempt and hostility, towards what is most precious and glorious
in the view of God, constitute the summit of human guilt. That feeble worms of the dust should
thus dare to sit in judgment on the divine administration, and pronounce that needless which
God has declared indispensable, and call that folly which God esteems the highest wisdom, is
not merely presumptuous;--it is inexpressibly impious.

How resistless is the evidence, hence arising, of the necessity of an entire change of heart--an
entire change of feeling--to prepare men to dwell with God. No wonder then, that our Lord should
declare with such emphasis, Ye must be born again, or ye cannot see the kingdom of God.

I beseech you, fellow sinners, lay these things seriously to heart. Do any of you habitually
hear the preaching of the cross with heartless indifference--with a light and trifling temper?
Beware, lest your heart become fatally hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.

Are any of you conscious of disgust and aversion, produced by such doctrines? O, beware, lest
that come upon you which is spoken in the prophets, Behold, ye dispisers, and wonder, and perish:
Beware lest you convert the bread of life into the poison of death!

Have any of you already attained such a degree of blindness and perversity, as to persuade
yourselves that the doctrines of the cross are really irrational and absurd, and that you are
doing right in opposing and deriding them? Recollect, I pray you, with whose word you are contending;--whose
wisdom you are despising! Let the chaff contend with the tempest, and the stubble with the
devouring flame; let the glow-worm despise all the lamps of heaven;--but Oh, let not a worm
contend with Omnipotence; let not dim reason reject all the splendours of the Sun of righteousness.
The redemption of the soul is precious--Its rescue from perdition, and elevation to God's right
hand, are objects too momentous, to be sacrificed to the pride of intellect, or to the fashion
of a world which passeth away. Receive, then, with meekness the ingrafted word, which is able
to save your souls. But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves.

SERMON XXVII.

BY ELIHU W. BALDWIN, A.M.

NEW-YORK.

THE FINAL JUDGMENT.

HEBREWS, IX. 29.--After this the Judgment.

Whilst another year is ending, and time itself, as it respects us, is fast hastening to its
close, the question very naturally arises, What shall come after death? The voice of inspiration
replies, After this the Judgment. There is no need of entering upon a laboured proof of the
doctrine so plainly declared, That there will be a day of Judgment for mankind. It is what
seems written by the finger of God himself upon the consciences of men. The impression is nearly
universal, with Pagans and Mahomedans, as well as Jews and Christians, that every one of us
shall give account of himself to God. This impression is strengthened by a view of the very
unequal and indiscriminate allotments of the present life. Here the virtuous are often the
objects of hatred and relentless persecution. Here the man of ambition and dark intrigue, circumvents
and treads down his more honest rivals. Here Providence often afflicts even the most pious;
while the licentious, and proud, and oppressive, are, perhaps, suffered to enjoy uninterrupted
prosperity. Now we believe, assuredly, that "God is just;" and we infer, that he will so exhibit
himself by another and more equal distribution of his favours and frowns. We conclude with
the wise man, "that God shall judge both the righteous and the wicked." Conscience and reason,
then, unite with revelation, in saying, that "God hath appointed a day, in which he will judge
the world in righteousness." No language can be plainer, and no event more reasonably anticipated.

With this absolute certainty before us, then, of a judgment for all mankind, it would be unnatural--it
would betray awful insensibility to eternal concerns, not to inquire with all seriousness--When
will this universal judgment take place? What objects is it designed to accomplish? What connexion
will it have with our future and eternal condition? We inquire then,

I. When will the universal Judgment take place?

The precise time, God has wisely concealed from every intelligent creature. "Of that day and
that hour knoweth no man. No; not the angels that are in heaven." But the text speaks of it,
in general terms, as that which is to take place after our death. Other passages are somewhat
more explicit, as to the time. Indeed, if God is to "judge the whole world in righteousness,"
what other occasion would seem so proper, as when the last of our race have finished their
work on the earth, and the world itself is about to be destroyed? Would it not appear most
suitable, that the public and final decision of our destiny, should immediately succeed the
winding up of this world's drama?--the termination of all earthly allotments? When, if not
at that deeply interesting crisis, will all things be ready for the great trial? The final
judgment, then, will take place after our death, and at the end of the world. We next inquire,

II. What are the objects, which the Judgment is designed to accomplish?

On this point, it becomes creatures of yesterday to speak with profound humility, and especially
to beware of contradicting what is revealed. The objects which Jehovah will accomplish by the
universal judgment, are unquestionably vast and momentous, beyond all conception. Yet some
of them are obvious to reason, or are plainly revealed.

Every person has experienced inconvenience and perplexity from the circumstance, that the real
characters of men, in the present life, are but partially disclosed. Much the larger portion
of human actions pass unobserved by the world; or the motives which prompt them are concealed.
One design of the judgment, then, is to uncover these hidden springs, and lay open every dark
retreat of human conduct.

Another design of the judgment, is publicly to assign to men their proper deserts. This, we
have before suggested, is not done on the earth. "All things here come alike to all." "There
is one event to the righteous and to the wicked." But the future judgment is characterized,
as the day of "revelation of the righteous judgment of God;" "in the which he will judge the
world in righteousness;" and will "render to every man according to his deeds." The mystery
involved in the prosperity of the wicked, and in the unequal allotments, which have here marked
the dispensations of Providence, will then cease for ever; and it will then be seen and felt,
that every one is treated according to the strictest principles of wisdom and justice.

Another special design of the judgment, is to manifest and gloriously exalt the perfections
of Jehovah. Revelation has indeed proclaimed his perfections, in language which need not be
misunderstood. But his providence has often interposed a cloud between them and the eyes of
men. We do not comprehend the wisdom of present occurrences. We see not the end from the beginning.
A complete disclosure of both, will show to the universe the deep counsels of God, and the
consistent and benevolent character of all his operations. He will then appear in the greatness
of his power, and majesty--as he summons the dead from their graves, and folds up the earth
and the heavens, like a decayed garment, to be laid aside. He will then appear in the glory
of his justice, his holiness, and his truth,--while he examines, before his dread tribunal,
the risen and assembled millions of our race, and renders to every one according to his works.
All his perfections will then be illustriously displayed; for, says the apostle, "He shall
come to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe."

But this glory of the Divinity is specially to shine forth in the person of the Son. Then will
he who humbled himself, and "became obedient unto death," be publicly recognised as "the Mighty
God," "by whom, and for whose pleasure, all things are, and were created." Then will "every
tongue confess that he is Lord." The conviction will then be universal, "that all men should
honour the Son even as they honour the Father." This leads us to inquire,

III. What connexion will the Judgment have with our future and eternal condition?

Here let us not indulge in vain speculations, but examine simply the word of God. According
to the Scriptures, the judgment will result in assigning to men very different allotments.
It will recognise among them two entirely different and opposite classes of character. One
of these classes, which the Bible denominates "the righteous," will be graciously acquitted
by the Judge, and publicly treated as his friends. The other, comprising all the impenitent,
will be as publicly condemned, and driven from his presence. They "will have judgment without
mercy." Such is plainly the account which Christ and the sacred writers have given of the final
awards to the righteous and the wicked. We have the account in detail. Thus broad and fearful
is the discrimination which the great day will make between the righteous and the wicked. So
entirely different are the awards in reserve for the two different classes of mankind. The
difference will be great, as between holiness and sin; between cheerful submission to the will
and providence of God, and unyielding rebellion against him; between cordial faith in the Lord
Jesus Christ, and wilful rejection of the only Saviour; between the splendour and joy of the
celestial Paradise, and the gloominess and misery of hell. No wonder, then, that "as Paul reasoned
of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled."

We are not to forget, my hearers, that these different awards of the judgment day will be irreversible
and literally endless. All admit this conclusion, with respect to the righteous. But if the
righteous are finally acquitted at the judgment, so are the wicked finally condemned. If the
righteous are said to enter into "life eternal," so are the wicked to "go away into everlasting
punishment." The Scriptures say not one word of any reprieve from this condemnation, or of
any other period of merciful visitation. Other passages, of similar import, might be quoted:
but if men will pour contempt on a single declaration of Jehovah--if they will make God a liar--they
would not be persuaded, though his voice from the heavens were a thousand times repeated. And
because they receive not the love of the truth, that they might be saved, most justly may he
send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie, and be damned.

I have thus endeavoured, with much brevity, to give a scriptural view of the final Judgment.
On a subject so tremendously awful, I have chosen to present simply God's testimony. A practical
inference from the whole is,--that the present life must be regarded as probationary. We are
living here as responsible agents, continually adding to the number of actions, for which we
must give account to God. How solemnly interesting, then, is this scene of our earthly pilgrimage!
How inexpressibly valuable is time! How infinitely precious are the means of grace!--particularly
those invitations of mercy, which meet us in the word of God, and address us from the sacred desk.

You, my fellow sinners, are the very individuals who must stand at the judgment-seat of Christ.
You must mingle in that vast multitude, which the voice of the archangel and the trump of God
shall assemble. And when your characters are all laid open, you must pass off to the right
hand, or to the left, accordingly as it shall appear, that you have repented, and believed
on the Son of God, or have neglected this great salvation. And are you diligently preparing
for that day? Are you working out your salvation with fear and trembling? Are you agonizing
to enter in at the strait gate? Are you escaping for your life?

Fellow mortals, your time of preparation may be far more brief than you now think. A few, very
few more opportunities for prayer, and reconciliation with God, and your account is sealed
up. While you hesitate, the recording angel may be writing your condemnation. In such circumstances,
what are worldly honours, or wealth, or all your hopes of enjoyment here? The life, the eternal
life of the soul, is the one thing needful--the only thing really important. You will realize
this truth, when the last trumpet is sounding through the universe, and, with increasing agony
or ecstasy, millions of ages after the final sentence is pronounced. O, then, consider it now.
Prepare for that judgment, now. To-morrow! where is it? Repent to-morrow! You may have far
other work to do. God, and conscience, and your immortal interests plead, "To-day, if you will
hear his voice, harden not your heart." "Behold, now is the accepted time; behold, now is the
day of salvation." Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way, when his wrath
is kindled but a little. For he cometh, for he cometh, to judge the world, in righteousness
to judge the earth, and the people with his truth. Portsmouth, Childs & March. Norwich City,
Charles Kinney, P.M. Greenwich, Esbon Husted. [unreadable], Jared Bunce. Carlisle, G. Duffield.
Lincolnton, Davin Reinhardt, P.M. Raleigh, P.W. Dowd Halifax, Sidney Weller.

