The Letters of Robert Louis Stevenson, Volume II

CHAPTER VIII - LIFE AT BOURNEMOUTH, CONTINUED, JANUARY 1886-JULY 1887

Letter:  TO MRS. DE MATTOS

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH], JANUARY 1ST, 1886.

DEAREST KATHARINE, - Here, on a very little book and accompanied  with lame verses, I have
put your name.  Our kindness is now  getting well on in years; it must be nearly of age; and
it gets  more valuable to me with every time I see you.  It is not possible  to express any
sentiment, and it is not necessary to try, at least  between us.  You know very well that I
love you dearly, and that I  always will.  I only wish the verses were better, but at least
you  like the story; and it is sent to you by the one that loves you -  Jekyll, and not Hyde.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO ALISON CUNNINGHAM

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH], 1ST, 1886.

MY DEAR KINNICUM, - I am a very bad dog, but not for the first  time.  Your book, which is
very interesting, came duly; and I  immediately got a very bad cold indeed, and have been fit
for  nothing whatever.  I am a bit better now, and aye on the mend; so I  write to tell you,
I thought of you on New Year's Day; though, I  own, it would have been more decent if I had
thought in time for  you to get my letter then.  Well, what can't be cured must be  endured,
Mr. Lawrie; and you must be content with what I give.  If  I wrote all the letters I ought
to write, and at the proper time, I  should be very good and very happy; but I doubt if I should
do  anything else.

I suppose you will be in town for the New Year; and I hope your  health is pretty good.  What
you want is diet; but it is as much  use to tell you that as it is to tell my father.  And
I quite admit  a diet is a beastly thing.  I doubt, however, if it be as bad as  not being
allowed to speak, which I have tried fully, and do not  like.  When, at the same time, I was
not allowed to read, it passed  a joke.  But these are troubles of the past, and on this day,
at  least, it is proper to suppose they won't return.  But we are not  put here to enjoy ourselves:
it was not God's purpose; and I am  prepared to argue, it is not our sincere wish.  As for
our deserts,  the less said of them the better, for somebody might hear, and  nobody cares
to be laughed at.  A good man is a very noble thing to  see, but not to himself; what he seems
to God is, fortunately, not  our business; that is the domain of faith; and whether on the
first  of January or the thirty-first of December, faith is a good word to  end on.

My dear Cummy, many happy returns to you and my best love. - The  worst correspondent in the world,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH], JANUARY 1ST, 1886.

MY DEAR PEOPLE, - Many happy returns of the day to you all; I am  fairly well and in good spirits;
and much and hopefully occupied  with dear Jenkin's life.  The inquiry in every detail, every
letter  that I read, makes me think of him more nobly.  I cannot imagine  how I got his friendship;
I did not deserve it.  I believe the  notice will be interesting and useful.

My father's last letter, owing to the use of a quill pen and the  neglect of blotting-paper,
was hopelessly illegible.  Every one  tried, and every one failed to decipher an important
word on which  the interest of one whole clause (and the letter consisted of two)  depended.

I find I can make little more of this; but I'll spare the blots. -  Dear people, ever your
loving son,

R. L. S.

I will try again, being a giant refreshed by the house being empty.   The presence of people
is the great obstacle to letter-writing.  I  deny that letters should contain news (I mean
mine; those of other  people should).  But mine should contain appropriate sentiments and 
humorous nonsense, or nonsense without the humour.  When the house  is empty, the mind is seized
with a desire - no, that is too strong  - a willingness to pour forth unmitigated rot, which
constitutes  (in me) the true spirit of correspondence.  When I have no remarks  to offer (and
nobody to offer them to), my pen flies, and you see  the remarkable consequence of a page literally
covered with words  and genuinely devoid of sense.  I can always do that, if quite  alone,
and I like doing it; but I have yet to learn that it is  beloved by correspondents.  The deuce
of it is, that there is no  end possible but the end of the paper; and as there is very little
left of that - if I cannot stop writing - suppose you give up  reading.  It would all come
to the same thing; and I think we  should all be happier...

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH], JAN. 2ND, 1886.

MY DEAR LOW, - LAMIA has come, and I do not know how to thank you,  not only for the beautiful
art of the designs, but for the handsome  and apt words of the dedication.  My favourite is
'Bathes unseen,'  which is a masterpiece; and the next, 'Into the green recessed  woods,' is
perhaps more remarkable, though it does not take my  fancy so imperiously.  The night scene
at Corinth pleases me also.   The second part offers fewer opportunities.  I own I should like
to  see both ISABELLA and the EVE thus illustrated; and then there's  HYPERION - O, yes, and
ENDYMION!  I should like to see the lot:   beautiful pictures dance before me by hundreds:
I believe ENDYMION  would suit you best.  It also is in faery-land; and I see a hundred  opportunities,
cloudy and flowery glories, things as delicate as  the cobweb in the bush; actions, not in
themselves of any mighty  purport, but made for the pencil:  the feast of Pan, Peona's isle,
the 'slabbed margin of a well,' the chase of the butterfly, the  nymph, Glaucus, Cybele, Sleep
on his couch, a farrago of  unconnected beauties.  But I divagate; and all this sits in the
bosom of the publisher.

What is more important, I accept the terms of the dedication with a  frank heart, and the terms
of your Latin legend fairly.  The sight  of your pictures has once more awakened me to my right
mind;  something may come of it; yet one more bold push to get free of  this prisonyard of
the abominably ugly, where I take my daily  exercise with my contemporaries.  I do not know,
I have a feeling  in my bones, a sentiment which may take on the forms of  imagination, or
may not.  If it does, I shall owe it to you; and  the thing will thus descend from Keats even
if on the wrong side of  the blanket.  If it can be done in prose - that is the puzzle - I
divagate again.  Thank you again:  you can draw and yet you do not  love the ugly:  what are
you doing in this age?  Flee, while it is  yet time; they will have your four limbs pinned
upon a stable door  to scare witches.  The ugly, my unhappy friend, is DE RIGUEUR:  it  is
the only wear!  What a chance you threw away with the serpent!   Why had Apollonius no pimples?
Heavens, my dear Low, you do not  know your business....

I send you herewith a Gothic gnome for your Greek nymph; but the  gnome is interesting, I think,
and he came out of a deep mine,  where he guards the fountain of tears.  It is not always the
time  to rejoice. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

The gnome's name is JEKYLL & HYDE; I believe you will find he is  likewise quite willing to
answer to the name of Low or Stevenson.

SAME DAY. - I have copied out on the other sheet some bad verses,  which somehow your picture
suggested; as a kind of image of things  that I pursue and cannot reach, and that you seem
- no, not to have  reached - but to have come a thought nearer to than I.  This is the  life
we have chosen:  well, the choice was mad, but I should make  it again.

What occurs to me is this:  perhaps they might be printed in (say)  the CENTURY for the sake
of my name; and if that were possible,  they might advertise your book.  It might be headed
as sent in  acknowledgment of your LAMIA.  Or perhaps it might be introduced by  the phrases
I have marked above.  I dare say they would stick it  in:  I want no payment, being well paid
by LAMIA.  If they are not,  keep them to yourself. Where has fleeting beauty led? To the doorway
of the dead! qy. omit? [Life is gone, but life was gay: We have come the primrose way!]

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, JAN. 2ND, 1886.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - Thank you for your letter, so interesting to my  vanity.  There is a review
in the St. James's, which, as it seems  to hold somewhat of your opinions, and is besides written
with a  pen and not a poker, we think may possibly be yours.  The PRINCE  has done fairly well
in spite of the reviews, which have been bad:   he was, as you doubtless saw, well slated in
the SATURDAY; one  paper received it as a child's story; another (picture my agony)  described
it as a 'Gilbert comedy.'  It was amusing to see the race  between me and Justin M'Carthy:
the Milesian has won by a length.

That is the hard part of literature.  You aim high, and you take  longer over your work, and
it will not be so successful as if you  had aimed low and rushed it.  What the public likes
is work (of any  kind) a little loosely executed; so long as it is a little wordy, a  little
slack, a little dim and knotless, the dear public likes it;  it should (if possible) be a little
dull into the bargain.  I know  that good work sometimes hits; but, with my hand on my heart,
I  think it is by an accident.  And I know also that good work must  succeed at last; but that
is not the doing of the public; they are  only shamed into silence or affectation.  I do not
write for the  public; I do write for money, a nobler deity; and most of all for  myself, not
perhaps any more noble, but both more intelligent and  nearer home.

Let us tell each other sad stories of the bestiality of the beast  whom we feed.  What he likes
is the newspaper; and to me the press  is the mouth of a sewer, where lying is professed as
from an  university chair, and everything prurient, and ignoble, and  essentially dull, finds
its abode and pulpit.  I do not like  mankind; but men, and not all of these - and fewer women.
As for  respecting the race, and, above all, that fatuous rabble of  burgesses called 'the
public,' God save me from such irreligion! -  that way lies disgrace and dishonour.  There
must be something  wrong in me, or I would not be popular.

This is perhaps a trifle stronger than my sedate and permanent  opinion.  Not much, I think.
As for the art that we practise, I  have never been able to see why its professors should be
respected.   They chose the primrose path; when they found it was not all  primroses, but some
of it brambly, and much of it uphill, they  began to think and to speak of themselves as holy
martyrs.  But a  man is never martyred in any honest sense in the pursuit of his  pleasure;
and DELIRIUM TREMENS has more of the honour of the cross.   We were full of the pride of life,
and chose, like prostitutes, to  live by a pleasure.  We should be paid if we give the pleasure
we  pretend to give; but why should we be honoured?

I hope some day you and Mrs. Gosse will come for a Sunday; but we  must wait till I am able
to see people.  I  own, as I read, I wonder more and more why he should have taken me  to be
a friend.  He had many and obvious faults upon the face of  him; the heart was pure gold. 
I feel it little pain to have lost  him, for it is a loss in which I cannot believe; I take
it, against  reason, for an absence; if not to-day, then to-morrow, I still  fancy I shall
see him in the door; and then, now when I know him  better, how glad a meeting!  Yes, if I
could believe in the  immortality business, the world would indeed be too good to be  true;
but we were put here to do what service we can, for honour  and not for hire:  the sods cover
us, and the worm that never dies,  the conscience, sleeps well at last; these are the wages,
besides  what we receive so lavishly day by day; and they are enough for a  man who knows his
own frailty and sees all things in the proportion  of reality.  The soul of piety was killed
long ago by that idea of  reward.  Nor is happiness, whether eternal or temporal, the reward
that mankind seeks.  Happinesses are but his wayside campings; his  soul is in the journey;
he was born for the struggle, and only  tastes his life in effort and on the condition that
he is opposed.   How, then, is such a creature, so fiery, so pugnacious, so made up  of discontent
and aspiration, and such noble and uneasy passions -  how can he be rewarded but by rest? 
I would not say it aloud; for  man's cherished belief is that he loves that happiness which
he  continually spurns and passes by; and this belief in some ulterior  happiness exactly fits
him.  He does not require to stop and taste  it; he can be about the rugged and bitter business
where his heart  lies; and yet he can tell himself this fairy tale of an eternal  tea-party,
and enjoy the notion that he is both himself and  something else; and that his friends will
yet meet him, all ironed  out and emasculate, and still be lovable, - as if love did not live
in the faults of the beloved only, and draw its breath in an  unbroken round of forgiveness!
But the truth is, we must fight  until we die; and when we die there can be no quiet for mankind
but  complete resumption into - what? - God, let us say - when all these  desperate tricks
will lie spellbound at last.

Here came my dinner and cut this sermon short - EXCUSEZ.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO JAMES PAYN

SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, JAN. 2ND, 1886.

DEAR JAMES PAYN, - Your very kind letter came very welcome; and  still more welcome the news
that you see -'s tale.  I will now tell  you (and it was very good and very wise of me not
to tell it  before) that he is one of the most unlucky men I know, having put  all his money
into a pharmacy at Hyeres, when the cholera  (certainly not his fault) swept away his customers
in a body.  Thus  you can imagine the pleasure I have to announce to him a spark of  hope,
for he sits to-day in his pharmacy, doing nothing and taking  nothing, and watching his debts
inexorably mount up.

To pass to other matters:  your hand, you are perhaps aware, is not  one of those that can
be read running; and the name of your  daughter remains for me undecipherable.  I call her,
then, your  daughter - and a very good name too - and I beg to explain how it  came about that
I took her house.  The hospital was a point in my  tale; but there is a house on each side.
Now the true house is the  one before the hospital:  is that No. 11?  If not, what do you 
complain of?  If it is, how can I help what is true?  Everything in  the DYNAMITER is not true;
but the story of the Brown Box is, in  almost every particular; I lay my hand on my heart and
swear to it.   It took place in that house in 1884; and if your daughter was in  that house
at the time, all I can say is she must have kept very  bad society.

But I see you coming.  Perhaps your daughter's house has not a  balcony at the back?  I cannot
answer for that; I only know that  side of Queen Square from the pavement and the back windows
of  Brunswick Row.  Thence I saw plenty of balconies (terraces rather);  and if there is none
to the particular house in question, it must  have been so arranged to spite me.

I now come to the conclusion of this matter.  I address three  questions to your daughter:-

1st Has her house the proper terrace?

2nd.  Is it on the proper side of the hospital?

3rd.  Was she there in the summer of 1884?

You see, I begin to fear that Mrs. Desborough may have deceived me  on some trifling points,
for she is not a lady of peddling  exactitude.  If this should prove to be so, I will give
your  daughter a proper certificate, and her house property will return  to its original value.

Can man say more? - Yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

I saw the other day that the Eternal had plagiarised from LOST SIR  MASSINGBERD:  good again,
sir!  I wish he would plagiarise the  death of Zero.

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, JAN. SOMETHINGOROTHER-TH, 1886.

MY DEAR LOW, - I send you two photographs:  they are both done by  Sir Percy Shelley, the poet's
son, which may interest.  The sitting  down one is, I think, the best; but if they choose that,
see that  the little reflected light on the nose does not give me a turn-up;  that would be
tragic.  Don't forget 'Baronet' to Sir Percy's name.

We all think a heap of your book; and I am well pleased with my  dedication. - Yours ever,

R. L. STEVENSON.

P.S. - APROPOS of the odd controversy about Shelley's nose:  I have  before me four photographs
of myself, done by Shelley's son:  my  nose is hooked, not like the eagle, indeed, but like
the  accipitrine family in man:  well, out of these four, only one marks  the bend, one makes
it straight, and one suggests a turn-up.  This  throws a flood of light on calumnious man -
and the scandal- mongering sun.  For personally I cling to my curve.  To continue  the Shelley
controversy:  I have a look of him, all his sisters had  noses like mine; Sir Percy has a marked
hook; all the family had  high cheek-bones like mine; what doubt, then, but that this turn-up
(of which Jeaffreson accuses the poet, along with much other  FATRAS) is the result of some
accident similar to what has happened  in my photographs by his son?

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, JANUARY 25, 1886.]

MY DEAR FATHER, - Many thanks for a letter quite like yourself.  I  quite agree with you, and
had already planned a scene of religion  in BALFOUR; the Society for the Propagation of Christian
Knowledge  furnishes me with a catechist whom I shall try to make the man.  I  have another
catechist, the blind, pistol-carrying highway robber,  whom I have transferred from the Long
Island to Mull.  I find it a  most picturesque period, and wonder Scott let it escape.  The
COVENANT is lost on one of the Tarrans, and David is cast on  Earraid, where (being from inland)
he is nearly starved before he  finds out the island is tidal; then he crosses Mull to Toronsay,
meeting the blind catechist by the way; then crosses Morven from  Kinlochaline to Kingairloch,
where he stays the night with the good  catechist; that is where I am; next day he is to be
put ashore in  Appin, and be present at Colin Campbell's death.  To-day I rest,  being a little
run down.  Strange how liable we are to brain fag in  this scooty family!  But as far as I
have got, all but the last  chapter, I think David is on his feet, and (to my mind) a far 
better story and far sounder at heart than TREASURE ISLAND.

I have no earthly news, living entirely in my story, and only  coming out of it to play patience.
The Shelleys are gone; the  Taylors kinder than can be imagined.  The other day, Lady Taylor
drove over and called on me; she is a delightful old lady, and  great fun.  I mentioned a story
about the Duchess of Wellington  which I had heard Sir Henry tell; and though he was very tired,
he  looked it up and copied it out for me in his own hand. - Your most  affectionate son,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO C. W. STODDARD

SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, FEB. 13TH, 1886.

MY DEAR STODDARD, - I am a dreadful character; but, you see, I have  at last taken pen in hand;
how long I may hold it, God knows.  This  is already my sixth letter to-day, and I have many
more waiting;  and my wrist gives me a jog on the subject of scrivener's cramp,  which is not
encouraging.

I gather you were a little down in the jaw when you wrote your  last.  I am as usual pretty
cheerful, but not very strong.  I stay  in the house all winter, which is base; but, as you
continue to  see, the pen goes from time to time, though neither fast enough nor  constantly
enough to please me.

My wife is at Bath with my father and mother, and the interval of  widowery explains my writing.
Another person writing for you when  you have done work is a great enemy to correspondence.
To-day I  feel out of health, and shan't work; and hence this so much overdue  reply.

I was re-reading some of your South Sea Idyls the other day:  some  of the chapters are very
good indeed; some pages as good as they  can be.

How does your class get along?  If you like to touch on OTTO, any  day in a by-hour, you may
tell them - as the author's last dying  confession - that it is a strange example of the difficulty
of  being ideal in an age of realism; that the unpleasant giddy- mindedness, which spoils the
book and often gives it a wanton air  of unreality and juggling with air-bells, comes from
unsteadiness  of key; from the too great realism of some chapters and passages -  some of which
I have now spotted, others I dare say I shall never  spot - which disprepares the imagination
for the cast of the  remainder.

Any story can be made TRUE in its own key; any story can be made  FALSE by the choice of a
wrong key of detail or style:  Otto is  made to reel like a drunken - I was going to say man,
but let us  substitute cipher - by the variations of the key.  Have you  observed that the
famous problem of realism and idealism is one  purely of detail?  Have you seen my 'Note on
Realism' in Cassell's  MAGAZINE OF ART; and 'Elements of Style' in the CONTEMPORARY; and  'Romance'
and 'Humble Apology' in LONGMAN'S?  They are all in your  line of business; let me know what
you have not seen and I'll send  'em.

I am glad I brought the old house up to you.  It was a pleasant old  spot, and I remember you
there, though still more dearly in your  own strange den upon a hill in San Francisco; and
one of the most  San Francisco-y parts of San Francisco.

Good-bye, my dear fellow, and believe me your friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO J. A. SYMONDS

SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH [SPRING 1886].

MY DEAR SYMONDS, - If we have lost touch, it is (I think) only in a  material sense; a question
of letters, not hearts.  You will find a  warm welcome at Skerryvore from both the lightkeepers;
and, indeed,  we never tell ourselves one of our financial fairy tales, but a run  to Davos
is a prime feature.  I am not changeable in friendship;  and I think I can promise you you
have a pair of trusty well- wishers and friends in Bournemouth:  whether they write or not
is  but a small thing; the flag may not be waved, but it is there.

Jekyll is a dreadful thing, I own; but the only thing I feel  dreadful about is that damned
old business of the war in the  members.  This time it came out; I hope it will stay in, in future.

Raskolnikoff is easily the greatest book I have read in ten years;  I am glad you took to it.
Many find it dull:  Henry James could  not finish it:  all I can say is, it nearly finished
me.  It was  like having an illness.  James did not care for it because the  character of Raskolnikoff
was not objective; and at that I divined  a great gulf between us, and, on further reflection,
the existence  of a certain impotence in many minds of to-day, which prevents them  from living
IN a book or a character, and keeps them standing afar  off, spectators of a puppet show. 
To such I suppose the book may  seem empty in the centre; to the others it is a room, a house
of  life, into which they themselves enter, and are tortured and  purified.  The Juge d'Instruction
I thought a wonderful, weird,  touching, ingenious creation:  the drunken father, and Sonia,
and  the student friend, and the uncircumscribed, protaplasmic humanity  of Raskolnikoff, all
upon a level that filled me with wonder:  the  execution also, superb in places.  Another has
been translated -  HUMILIES ET OFFENSES.  It is even more incoherent than LE CRIME ET  LE CHATIMENT,
but breathes much of the same lovely goodness, and  has passages of power.  Dostoieffsky is
a devil of a swell, to be  sure.  Have you heard that he became a stout, imperialist  conservative?
It is interesting to know.  To something of that  side, the balance leans with me also in view
of the incoherency and  incapacity of all.  The old boyish idea of the march on Paradise  being
now out of season, and all plans and ideas that I hear  debated being built on a superb indifference
to the first  principles of human character, a helpless desire to acquiesce in  anything of
which I know the worst assails me.  Fundamental errors  in human nature of two sorts stand
on the skyline of all this modem  world of aspirations.  First, that it is happiness that men
want;  and second, that happiness consists of anything but an internal  harmony.  Men do not
want, and I do not think they would accept,  happiness; what they live for is rivalry, effort,
success - the  elements our friends wish to eliminate.  And, on the other hand,  happiness
is a question of morality - or of immorality, there is no  difference - and conviction.  Gordon
was happy in Khartoum, in his  worst hours of danger and fatigue; Marat was happy, I suppose,
in  his ugliest frenzy; Marcus Aurelius was happy in the detested camp;  Pepys was pretty happy,
and I am pretty happy on the whole, because  we both somewhat crowingly accepted a VIA MEDIA,
both liked to  attend to our affairs, and both had some success in managing the  same.  It
is quite an open question whether Pepys and I ought to be  happy; on the other hand, there
is no doubt that Marat had better  be unhappy.  He was right (if he said it) that he was LA
MISERE  HUMAINE, cureless misery - unless perhaps by the gallows.  Death is  a great and gentle
solvent; it has never had justice done it, no,  not by Whitman.  As for those crockery chimney-piece
ornaments, the  bourgeois (QUORUM PARS), and their cowardly dislike of dying and  killing,
it is merely one symptom of a thousand how utterly they  have got out of touch of life.  Their
dislike of capital punishment  and their treatment of their domestic servants are for me the
two  flaunting emblems of their hollowness.

God knows where I am driving to.  But here comes my lunch.

Which interruption, happily for you, seems to have stayed the  issue.  I have now nothing to
say, that had formerly such a  pressure of twaddle.  Pray don't fail to come this summer. 
It will  be a great disappointment, now it has been spoken of, if you do. -  Yours ever,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, MARCH 1886.]

MY DEAR LOW, - This is the most enchanting picture.  Now understand  my state:  I am really
an invalid, but of a mysterious order.  I  might be a MALADE IMAGINAIRE, but for one too tangible
symptom, my  tendency to bleed from the lungs.  If we could go, (1ST)  We must  have money
enough to travel with LEISURE AND COMFORT - especially  the first.  (2ND)  You must be prepared
for a comrade who would go  to bed some part of every day and often stay silent (3RD)  You
would have to play the part of a thoughtful courier, sparing me  fatigue, looking out that
my bed was warmed, etc. (4TH)  If you are  very nervous, you must recollect a bad haemorrhage
is always on the  cards, with its concomitants of anxiety and horror for those who  are beside me.

Do you blench?  If so, let us say no more about it.

If you are still unafraid, and the money were forthcoming, I  believe the trip might do me
good, and I feel sure that, working  together, we might produce a fine book.  The Rhone is
the river of  Angels.  I adore it:  have adored it since I was twelve, and first  saw it from
the train.

Lastly, it would depend on how I keep from now on.  I have stood  the winter hitherto with
some credit, but the dreadful weather  still continues, and I cannot holloa till I am through
the wood.

Subject to these numerous and gloomy provisos, I embrace the  prospect with glorious feelings.

I write this from bed, snow pouring without, and no circumstance of  pleasure except your letter.
That, however, counts for much.  I am  glad you liked the doggerel:  I have already had a liberal
cheque,  over which I licked my fingers with a sound conscience.  I had not  meant to make
money by these stumbling feet, but if it comes, it is  only too welcome in my handsome but
impecunious house.

Let me know soon what is to be expected - as far as it does not  hang by that inconstant quantity,
my want of health.

I have drafted the first part of Chapter VI., Fleeming and his  friends, his influence on me,
his views on religion and literature,  his part at the Savile; it should boil down to about
ten pages, and  I really do think it admirably good.  It has so much evoked  Fleeming for myself
that I found my conscience stirred just as it  used to be after a serious talk with him:  surely
that means it is  good?  I had to write and tell you, being alone.

I have excellent news of Fanny, who is much better for the change.   My father is still very
yellow, and very old, and very weak, but  yesterday he seemed happier, and smiled, and followed
what was  said; even laughed, I think.  When he came away, he said to me,  'Take care of yourself,
my dearie,' which had a strange sound of  childish days, and will not leave my mind.

You must get Litolf's GAVOTTES CELEBRES:  I have made another  trover there:  a musette of
Lully's.  The second part of it I have  not yet got the hang of; but the first - only a few
bars!  The  gavotte is beautiful and pretty hard, I think, and very much of the  period; and
at the end of it, this musette enters with the most  really thrilling effect of simple beauty.
O - it's first-rate.  I  am quite mad over it.  If you find other books containing Lully, 
Rameau, Martini, please let me know; also you might tell me, you  who know Bach, where the
easiest is to be found.  I write all  morning, come down, and never leave the piano till about
five;  write letters, dine, get down again about eight, and never leave  the piano till I go
to bed.  This is a fine life. - Yours most  sincerely,

R. L. S.

If you get the musette (Lully's), please tell me if I am right, and  it was probably written
for strings.  Anyway, it is as neat as - as  neat as Bach - on the piano; or seems so to my
ignorance.

I play much of the Rigadoon but it is strange, it don't come off  QUITE so well with me!

[Musical score which cannot be reproduced]

There is the first part of the musette copied (from memory, so I  hope there's nothing wrong).
Is it not angelic?  But it ought, of  course, to have the gavotte before.  The gavotte is in
G, and ends  on the keynote thus (if I remember):-

[Musical score which cannot be reproduced]

staccato, I think.  Then you sail into the musette.

N.B. - Where I have put an 'A,' is that a dominant eleventh, or  what? or just a seventh on
the D? and if the latter, is that  allowed?  It sounds very funny.  Never mind all my questions;
if I  begin about music (which is my leading ignorance and curiosity), I  have always to babble
questions:  all my friends know me now, and  take no notice whatever.  The whole piece is marked
allegro; but  surely could easily be played too fast?  The dignity must not be  lost; the periwig
feeling.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, March 1886.]

MY DEAR FATHER, - The David problem has to-day been decided.  I am  to leave the door open
for a sequel if the public take to it, and  this will save me from butchering a lot of good
material to no  purpose.  Your letter from Carlisle was pretty like yourself, sir,  as I was
pleased to see; the hand of Jekyll, not the hand of Hyde.   I am for action quite unfit, and
even a letter is beyond me; so  pray take these scraps at a vast deal more than their intrinsic
worth.  I am in great spirits about David, Colvin agreeing with  Henley, Fanny, and myself
in thinking it far the most human of my  labours hitherto.  As to whether the long-eared British
public may  take to it, all think it more than doubtful; I wish they would, for  I could do
a second volume with ease and pleasure, and Colvin  thinks it sin and folly to throw away David
and Alan Breck upon so  small a field as this one. - Ever your affectionate son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. FLEEMING JENKIN

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH], APRIL 15 OR 16 (THE HOUR NOT BEING  KNOWN), 1886.

MY DEAR MRS. JENKIN, - It is I know not what hour of the night; but  I cannot sleep, have lit
the gas, and here goes.

First, all your packet arrived:  I have dipped into the Schumann  already with great pleasure.
Surely, in what concerns us there is  a sweet little chirrup; the GOOD WORDS arrived in the
morning just  when I needed it, and the famous notes that I had lost were  recovered also in
the nick of time.

And now I am going to bother you with my affairs:  premising,  first, that this is PRIVATE;
second, that whatever I do the LIFE  shall be done first, and I am getting on with it well;
and third,  that I do not quite know why I consult you, but something tells me  you will hear
with fairness.

Here is my problem.  The Curtin women are still miserable  prisoners; no one dare buy their
farm of them, all the manhood of  England and the world stands aghast before a threat of murder.
(1)  Now, my work can be done anywhere; hence I can take up without loss  a back-going Irish
farm, and live on, though not (as I had  originally written) in it:  First Reason.  (2) If
I should be  killed, there are a good many who would feel it:  writers are so  much in the
public eye, that a writer being murdered would attract  attention, throw a bull's-eye light
upon this cowardly business:   Second Reason.  (3) I am not unknown in the States, from which
the  funds come that pay for these brutalities:  to some faint extent,  my death (if I should
be killed) would tell there:  Third Reason.   (4) NOBODY ELSE IS TAKING UP THIS OBVIOUS AND
CRYING DULY:  Fourth  Reason.  (5) I have a crazy health and may die at any moment, my  life
is of no purchase in an insurance office, it is the less  account to husband it, and the business
of husbanding a life is  dreary and demoralising:  Fifth Reason.

I state these in no order, but as they occur to me.  And I shall do  the like with the objections.

First Objection:  It will do no good; you have seen Gordon die and  nobody minded; nobody will
mind if you die.  This is plainly of the  devil.  Second Objection:  You will not even be murdered,
the  climate will miserably kill you, you will strangle out in a rotten  damp heat, in congestion,
etc.  Well, what then?  It changes  nothing:  the purpose is to brave crime; let me brave it,
for such  time and to such an extent as God allows.  Third Objection:  The  Curtin women are
probably highly uninteresting females.  I haven't  a doubt of it.  But the Government cannot,
men will not, protect  them.  If I am the only one to see this public duty, it is to the  public
and the Right I should perform it - not to Mesdames Curtin.   Fourth Objection:  I am married.
'I have married a wife!'  I seem  to have heard it before.  It smells ancient! what was the
context?   Fifth Objection:  My wife has had a mean life (1), loves me (2),  could not bear
to lose me (3).  (1) I admit:  I am sorry.  (2) But  what does she love me for? and (3) she
must lose me soon or late.   And after all, because we run this risk, it does not follow we
should fail.  Sixth Objection:  My wife wouldn't like it.  No, she  wouldn't.  Who would? 
But the Curtins don't like it.  And all  those who are to suffer if this goes on, won't like
it.  And if  there is a great wrong, somebody must suffer.  Seventh Objection:   I won't like
it.  No, I will not; I have thought it through, and I  will not.  But what of that?  And both
she and I may like it more  than we suppose.  We shall lose friends, all comforts, all society:
so has everybody who has ever done anything; but we shall have some  excitement, and that's
a fine thing; and we shall be trying to do  the right, and that's not to be despised.  Eighth
Objection:  I am  an author with my work before me.  See Second Reason.  Ninth  Objection:
But am I not taken with the hope of excitement?  I was  at first.  I am not much now.  I see
what a dreary, friendless,  miserable, God-forgotten business it will be.  And anyway, is not
excitement the proper reward of doing anything both right and a  little dangerous?  Tenth Objection:
But am I not taken with a  notion of glory?  I dare say I am.  Yet I see quite clearly how
all  points to nothing coming, to a quite inglorious death by disease  and from the lack of
attendance; or even if I should be knocked on  the head, as these poor Irish promise, how little
any one will  care.  It will be a smile at a thousand breakfast-tables.  I am  nearly forty
now; I have not many illusions.  And if I had?  I do  not love this health-tending, housekeeping
life of mine.  I have a  taste for danger, which is human, like the fear of it.  Here is a
fair cause; a just cause; no knight ever set lance in rest for a  juster.  Yet it needs not
the strength I have not, only the passive  courage that I hope I could muster, and the watchfulness
that I am  sure I could learn.

Here is a long midnight dissertation; with myself; with you.   Please let me hear.  But I charge
you this:  if you see in this  idea of mine the finger of duty, do not dissuade me.  I am nearing
forty, I begin to love my ease and my home and my habits, I never  knew how much till this
arose; do not falsely counsel me to put my  head under the bed-clothes.  And I will say this
to you:  my wife,  who hates the idea, does not refuse.  'It is nonsense,' says she,  'but
if you go, I will go.'  Poor girl, and her home and her garden  that she was so proud of! 
I feel her garden most of all, because  it is a pleasure (I suppose) that I do not feel myself
to share.

1. Here is a great wrong. 2. " growing wrong. 3. " wrong founded on crime. 4. " crime that
the Government cannot prevent. 5. " crime that it occurs to no man to defy. 6. But it has occurred
to me. 7. Being a known person, some will notice my defiance. 8. Being a writer, I can MAKE
people notice it. 9. And, I think, MAKE people imitate me. 10. Which would destroy in time
this whole scaffolding of  oppression. 11. And if I fail, however ignominiously, that is not
my concern.   It is, with an odd mixture of reverence and humorous remembrances  of Dickens,
be it said - it is A-nother's.

And here, at I cannot think what hour of the morning, I shall dry  up, and remain, - Yours,
really in want of a little help,

R. L S.

Sleepless at midnight's dewy hour.
     "          "       witching "
     "          "       maudlin "
     "          "       etc.

NEXT MORNING. - Eleventh Objection:  I have a father and mother.   And who has not?  Macduff's
was a rare case; if we must wait for a  Macduff.  Besides, my father will not perhaps be long
here.   Twelfth Objection:  The cause of England in Ireland is not worth  supporting.  A QUI
LE DITES-VOUS?  And I am not supporting that.   Home Rule, if you like.  Cause of decency,
the idea that  populations should not be taught to gain public ends by private  crime, the
idea that for all men to bow before a threat of crime is  to loosen and degrade beyond redemption
the whole fabric of man's  decency.

Letter:  TO MRS. FLEEMING JENKIN

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, APRIL 1886.]

MY DEAR MRS. JENKIN, - The Book - It is all drafted:  I hope soon  to send you for comments
Chapters III., IV., and V.  Chapter VII.  is roughly but satisfactorily drafted:  a very little
work should  put that to rights.  But Chapter VI. is no joke; it is a MARE  MAGNUM:  I swim
and drown and come up again; and it is all broken  ends and mystification:  moreover, I perceive
I am in want of more  matter.  I must have, first of all, a little letter from Mr. Ewing  about
the phonograph work:  IF you think he would understand it is  quite a matter of chance whether
I use a word or a fact out of it.   If you think he would not:  I will go without.  Also, could
I have  a look at Ewing's PRECIS?  And lastly, I perceive I must interview  you again about
a few points; they are very few, and might come to  little; and I propose to go on getting
things as well together as I  can in the meanwhile, and rather have a final time when all is
ready and only to be criticised.  I do still think it will be good.   I wonder if Trelat would
let me cut?  But no, I think I wouldn't  after all; 'tis so quaint and pretty and clever and
simple and  French, and gives such a good sight of Fleeming:  the plum of the  book, I think.

You misunderstood me in one point:  I always hoped to found such a  society; that was the outside
of my dream, and would mean entire  success.  BUT - I cannot play Peter the Hermit.  In these
days of  the Fleet Street journalist, I cannot send out better men than  myself, with wives
or mothers just as good as mine, and sisters (I  may at least say) better, to a danger and
a long-drawn dreariness  that I do not share.  My wife says it's cowardice; what brave men
are the leader-writers!  Call it cowardice; it is mine.  Mind you,  I may end by trying to
do it by the pen only:  I shall not love  myself if I do; and is it ever a good thing to do
a thing for which  you despise yourself? - even in the doing?  And if the thing you do  is
to call upon others to do the thing you neglect?  I have never  dared to say what I feel about
men's lives, because my own was in  the wrong:  shall I dare to send them to death?  The physician
must  heal himself; he must honestly TRY the path he recommends:  if he  does not even try,
should he not be silent?

I thank you very heartily for your letter, and for the seriousness  you brought to it.  You
know, I think when a serious thing is your  own, you keep a saner man by laughing at it and
yourself as you go.   So I do not write possibly with all the really somewhat sickened  gravity
I feel.  And indeed, what with the book, and this business  to which I referred, and Ireland,
I am scarcely in an enviable  state.  Well, I ought to be glad, after ten years of the worst
training on earth - valetudinarianism - that I can still be  troubled by a duty.  You shall
hear more in time; so far, I am at  least decided:  I will go and see Balfour when I get to London.

We have all had a great pleasure:  a Mrs. Rawlinson came and  brought with her a nineteen-year-old
daughter, simple, human, as  beautiful as - herself; I never admired a girl before, you know
it  was my weakness:  we are all three dead in love with her.  How nice  to be able to do so
much good to harassed people by - yourself!   Ever yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MISS RAWLINSON

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, APRIL 1886.]

OF the many flowers you brought me, Only some were meant to stay, And the flower I thought
the sweetest Was the flower that went away.

Of the many flowers you brought me, All were fair and fresh and gay, But the flower I thought
the sweetest Was the blossom of the May.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MISS MONROE

SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, MAY 25TH, 1886.

DEAR MISS MONROE, - (I hope I have this rightly) I must lose no  time in thanking you for a
letter singularly pleasant to receive.   It may interest you to know that I read to the signature
without  suspecting my correspondent was a woman; though in one point (a  reference to the
Countess) I might have found a hint of the truth.   You are not pleased with Otto; since I
judge you do not like  weakness; and no more do I.  And yet I have more than tolerance for
Otto, whose faults are the faults of weakness, but never of ignoble  weakness, and who seeks
before all to be both kind and just.   Seeks, not succeeds.  But what is man?  So much of cynicism
to  recognise that nobody does right is the best equipment for those  who do not wish to be
cynics in good earnest.  Think better of  Otto, if my plea can influence you; and this I mean
for your own  sake - not his, poor fellow, as he will never learn your opinion;  but for yours,
because, as men go in this world (and women too),  you will not go far wrong if you light upon
so fine a fellow; and  to light upon one and not perceive his merits is a calamity.  In  the
flesh, of course, I mean; in the book the fault, of course, is  with my stumbling pen.  Seraphina
made a mistake about her Otto; it  begins to swim before me dimly that you may have some traits
of  Seraphina?

With true ingratitude you see me pitch upon your exception; but it  is easier to defend oneself
gracefully than to acknowledge praise.   I am truly glad that you should like my books; for
I think I see  from what you write that you are a reader worth convincing.  Your  name, if
I have properly deciphered it, suggests that you may be  also something of my countrywoman;
for it is hard to see where  Monroe came from, if not from Scotland.  You say my letter caused
you  pleasure; I am sure, as it fell out, not near so much as yours has  brought to me.  The
interest taken in an author is fragile:  his  next book, or your next year of culture, might
see the interest  frosted or outgrown; and himself, in spite of all, you might  probably find
the most distasteful person upon earth.  My case is  different.  I have bad health, am often
condemned to silence for  days together - was so once for six weeks, so that my voice was 
awful to hear when I first used it, like the whisper of a shadow -  have outlived all my chief
pleasures, which were active and  adventurous, and ran in the open air:  and being a person
who  prefers life to art, and who knows it is a far finer thing to be in  love, or to risk
a danger, than to paint the finest picture or  write the noblest book, I begin to regard what
remains to me of my  life as very shadowy.  From a variety of reasons, I am ashamed to  confess
I was much in this humour when your letter came.  I had a  good many troubles; was regretting
a high average of sins; had been  recently reminded that I had outlived some friends, and wondering
if I had not outlived some friendships; and had just, while  boasting of better health, been
struck down again by my haunting  enemy, an enemy who was exciting at first, but has now, by
the  iteration of his strokes, become merely annoying and inexpressibly  irksome.  Can you
fancy that to a person drawing towards the  elderly this sort of conjunction of circumstances
brings a rather  aching sense of the past and the future?  Well, it was just then  that your
letter and your photograph were brought to me in bed; and  there came to me at once the most
agreeable sense of triumph.  My  books were still young; my words had their good health and
could go  about the world and make themselves welcome; and even (in a shadowy  and distant
sense) make something in the nature of friends for the  sheer hulk that stays at home and bites
his pen over the  manuscripts.  It amused me very much to remember that I had been in  Chicago,
not so many years ago, in my proper person; where I had  failed to awaken much remark, except
from the ticket collector; and  to think how much more gallant and persuasive were the fellows
that  I now send instead of me, and how these are welcome in that quarter  to the sitter of
Herr Platz, while their author was not very  welcome even in the villainous restaurant where
he tried to eat a  meal and rather failed.

And this leads me directly to a confession.  The photograph which  shall accompany this is
not chosen as the most like, but the best- looking.  Put yourself in my place, and you will
call this  pardonable.  Even as it is, even putting forth a flattered  presentment, I am a
little pained; and very glad it is a photograph  and not myself that has to go; for in this
case, if it please you,  you can tell yourself it is my image - and if it displeased you, 
you can lay the blame on the photographer; but in that, there were  no help, and the poor author
might belie his labours.

KIDNAPPED should soon appear; I am afraid you may not like it, as  it is very unlike PRINCE
OTTO in every way; but I am myself a great  admirer of the two chief characters, Alan and David.
VIRGINIBUS  PUERISQUE has never been issued in the States.  I do not think it  is a book that
has much charm for publishers in any land; but I am  to bring out a new edition in England
shortly, a copy of which I  must try to remember to send you.  I say try to remember, because
I  have some superficial acquaintance with myself:  and I have  determined, after a galling
discipline, to promise nothing more  until the day of my death:  at least, in this way, I shall
no more  break my word, and I must now try being churlish instead of being  false.

I do not believe you to be the least like Seraphina.  Your  photograph has no trace of her,
which somewhat relieves me, as I am  a good deal afraid of Seraphinas - they do not always
go into the  woods and see the sunrise, and some are so well-mailed that even  that experience
would leave them unaffected and unsoftened.  The  'hair and eyes of several complexions' was
a trait taken from  myself; and I do not bind myself to the opinions of Sir John.  In  this
case, perhaps - but no, if the peculiarity is shared by two  such pleasant persons as you and
I (as you and me - the grammatical  nut is hard), it must be a very good thing indeed, and
Sir John  must be an ass.

The BOOK READER notice was a strange jumble of fact and fancy.  I  wish you could have seen
my father's old assistant and present  partner when he heard my father described as an 'inspector
of  lighthouses,' for we are all very proud of the family achievements,  and the name of my
house here in Bournemouth is stolen from one of  the sea-towers of the Hebrides which are our
pyramids and  monuments.  I was never at Cambridge, again; but neglected a  considerable succession
of classes at Edinburgh.  But to correct  that friendly blunderer were to write an autobiography.
- And so  now, with many thanks, believe me yours sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO R. A. M. STEVENSON

SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, JULY 1886.

SIR, - Your foolish letter was unduly received.  There may be  hidden fifths, and if there
are, it shows how dam spontaneous the  thing was.  I could tinker and tic-tac-toe on a piece
of paper, but  scorned the act with a Threnody, which was poured forth like blood  and water
on the groaning organ.  If your heart (which was what I  addressed) remained unmoved, let us
refer to the affair no more:   crystallised emotion, the statement and the reconciliation of
the  sorrows of the race and the individual, is obviously no more to you  than supping sawdust.
Well, well.  If ever I write another  Threnody!  My next op. will probably be a Passepied and
fugue in G  (or D).

The mind is in my case shrunk to the size and sp. gr. of an aged  Spanish filbert.  O, I am
so jolly silly.  I now pickle with some  freedom (1) the refrain of MARTINI'S MOUTONS; (2)
SUL MARGINE D'UN  RIO, arranged for the infant school by the Aged Statesman; (3) the  first
phrase of Bach's musette (Sweet Englishwoman, No. 3), the  rest of the musette being one prolonged
cropper, which I take daily  for the benefit of my health.  All my other works (of which there
are many) are either arranged (by R. L. Stevenson) for the manly  and melodious forefinger,
or else prolonged and melancholy  croppers. . . . I find one can get a notion of music very
nicely.   I have been pickling deeply in the Magic Flute; and have arranged  LA DOVE PRENDE,
almost to the end, for two melodious forefingers.   I am next going to score the really nobler
COLOMBA O TORTORELLA for  the same instruments.

This day is published The works of Ludwig van Beethoven arranged and wiederdurchgearbeiteted
for two melodious forefingers by, Sir, - Your obedient servant,

PIMPERLY STIPPLE.

That's a good idea?  There's a person called Lenz who actually does  it - beware his den; I
lost eighteenpennies on him, and found the  bleeding corpses of pieces of music divorced from
their keys,  despoiled of their graces, and even changed in time; I do not wish  to regard
music (nor to be regarded) through that bony Lenz.  You  say you are 'a spumfed idiot'; but
how about Lenz?  And how about  me, sir, me?

I yesterday sent Lloyd by parcel post, at great expense, an empty  matchbox and empty cigarette-paper
book, a bell from a cat's  collar, an iron kitchen spoon, and a piece of coal more than half
the superficies of this sheet of paper.  They are now  (appropriately enough) speeding towards
the Silly Isles; I hope he  will find them useful.  By that, and my telegram with prepaid 
answer to yourself, you may judge of my spiritual state.  The  finances have much brightened;
and if KIDNAPPED keeps on as it has  begun, I may be solvent. - Yours,

THRENODIAE AVCTOR

(The authour of ane Threnodie).

Op. 2:  Scherzo (in G Major) expressive of the Sense of favours to  come.

Letter:  TO R. A. M. STEVENSON

SKERRYVORE [BOURNEMOUTH, JULY 1886].

DEAR BOB, - Herewith another shy; more melancholy than before, but  I think not so abjectly
idiotic.  The musical terms seem to be as  good as in Beethoven, and that, after all, is the
great affair.   Bar the dam bareness of the base, it looks like a piece of real  music from
a distance.  I am proud to say it was not made one hand  at a time; the base was of synchronous
birth with the treble; they  are of the same age, sir, and may God have mercy on their souls!
-  Yours,

THE MAESTRO.

Letter:  TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, JULY 7TH, 1886.

MY DEAR PEOPLE, - It is probably my fault, and not yours, that I  did not understand.  I think
it would be well worth trying the  winter in Bournemouth; but I would only take the house by
the month  - this after mature discussion.  My leakage still pursues its  course; if I were
only well, I have a notion to go north and get in  (if I could) at the inn at Kirkmichael,
which has always smiled  upon me much.  If I did well there, we might then meet and do what
should most smile at the time.

Meanwhile, of course, I must not move, and am in a rancid box here,  feeling the heat a great
deal, and pretty tired of things.   Alexander did a good thing of me at last; it looks like
a mixture  of an aztec idol, a lion, an Indian Rajah, and a woman; and  certainly represents
a mighty comic figure.  F. and Lloyd both  think it is the best thing that has been done of
me up to now.

You should hear Lloyd on the penny whistle, and me on the piano!   Dear powers, what a concerto!
I now live entirely for the piano,  he for the whistle; the neighbours, in a radius of a furlong
and a  half, are packing up in quest of brighter climes. - Ever yours,

R. L. S.

P.S. - Please say if you can afford to let us have money for this  trip, and if so, how much.
I can see the year through without  help, I believe, and supposing my health to keep up; but
can scarce  make this change on my own metal.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, JULY 1886].

DEAR CHARLES, - Doubtless, if all goes well, towards the 1st of  August we shall be begging
at your door.  Thanks for a sight of the  papers, which I return (you see) at once, fearing
further  responsibility.

Glad you like Dauvit; but eh, man, yon's terrible strange conduc'  o' thon man Rankeillor.
Ca' him a legal adviser!  It would make a  bonny law-shuit, the Shaws case; and yon paper they
signed, I'm  thinking, wouldnae be muckle thought o' by Puggy Deas. - Yours  ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH], JULY 28, 1886.

MY DEAR FATHER, - We have decided not to come to Scotland, but just  to do as Dobell wished,
and take an outing.  I believe this is  wiser in all ways; but I own it is a disappointment.
I am weary of  England; like Alan, 'I weary for the heather,' if not for the deer.   Lloyd
has gone to Scilly with Katharine and C., where and with whom  he should have a good time.
David seems really to be going to  succeed, which is a pleasant prospect on all sides.  I am,
I  believe, floated financially; a book that sells will be a pleasant  novelty.  I enclose
another review; mighty complimentary, and  calculated to sell the book too.

Coolin's tombstone has been got out, honest man! and it is to be  polished, for it has got
scratched, and have a touch of gilding in  the letters, and be sunk in the front of the house.
Worthy man,  he, too, will maybe weary for the heather, and the bents of  Gullane, where (as
I dare say you remember) he gaed clean gyte, and  jumped on to his crown from a gig, in hot
and hopeless chase of  many thousand rabbits.  I can still hear the little cries of the  honest
fellow as he disappeared; and my mother will correct me, but  I believe it was two days before
he turned up again at North  Berwick:  to judge by his belly, he had caught not one out of
these  thousands, but he had had some exercise.

I keep well. - Ever your affectionate son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

BRITISH MUSEUM [AUGUST 10TH, 1886].

MY DEAR MOTHER, - We are having a capital holiday, and I am much  better, and enjoying myself
to the nines.  Richmond is painting my  portrait.  To-day I lunch with him, and meet Burne-Jones;
to-night  Browning dines with us.  That sounds rather lofty work, does it  not?  His path was
paved with celebrities.  To-morrow we leave for  Paris, and next week, I suppose, or the week
after, come home.   Address here, as we may not reach Paris.  I am really very well. -  Ever
your affectionate son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO T. WATTS-DUNTON

SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH [SEPTEMBER 1886].

DEAR MR. WATTS, The sight of the last ATHENAEUM reminds me of you,  and of my debt, now too
long due.  I wish to thank you for your  notice of KIDNAPPED; and that not because it was kind,
though for  that also I valued it, but in the same sense as I have thanked you  before now
for a hundred articles on a hundred different writers.   A critic like you is one who fights
the good fight, contending with  stupidity, and I would fain hope not all in vain; in my own
case,  for instance, surely not in vain.

What you say of the two parts in KIDNAPPED was felt by no one more  painfully than by myself.
I began it partly as a lark, partly as a  pot-boiler; and suddenly it moved, David and Alan
stepped out from  the canvas, and I found I was in another world.  But there was the  cursed
beginning, and a cursed end must be appended; and our old  friend Byles the butcher was plainly
audible tapping at the back  door.  So it had to go into the world, one part (as it does seem
to  me) alive, one part merely galvanised:  no work, only an essay.   For a man of tentative
method, and weak health, and a scarcity of  private means, and not too much of that frugality
which is the  artist's proper virtue, the days of sinecures and patrons look very  golden:
the days of professional literature very hard.  Yet I do  not so far deceive myself as to think
I should change my character  by changing my epoch; the sum of virtue in our books is in a
relation of equality to the sum of virtues in ourselves; and my  KIDNAPPED was doomed, while
still in the womb and while I was yet  in the cradle, to be the thing it is.

And now to the more genial business of defence.  You attack my  fight on board the COVENANT:
I think it literal.  David and Alan  had every advantage on their side - position, arms, training,
a  good conscience; a handful of merchant sailors, not well led in the  first attack, not led
at all in the second, could only by an  accident have taken the round-house by attack; and
since the  defenders had firearms and food, it is even doubtful if they could  have been starved
out.  The only doubtful point with me is whether  the seamen would have ever ventured on the
second onslaught; I half  believe they would not; still the illusion of numbers and the  authority
of Hoseason would perhaps stretch far enough to justify  the extremity. - I am, dear Mr. Watts,
your very sincere admirer,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO FREDERICK LOCKER-LAMPSON

SKERRYVORE, SEPTEMBER 4, 1886.

NOT roses to the rose, I trow, The thistle sends, nor to the bee Do wasps bring honey.  Wherefore
now Should Locker ask a verse from me?

Martial, perchance, - but he is dead, And Herrick now must rhyme no more; Still burning with
the muse, they tread (And arm in arm) the shadowy shore.

They, if they lived, with dainty hand, To music as of mountain brooks, Might bring you worthy
words to stand Unshamed, dear Locker, in your books.

But tho' these fathers of your race Be gone before, yourself a sire, To-day you see before
your face Your stalwart youngsters touch the lyre -

On these - on Lang, or Dobson - call, Long leaders of the songful feast. They lend a verse
your laughing fall - A verse they owe you at the least.

Letter:  TO FREDERICK LOCKER-LAMPSON

[SKERRYVORE], BOURNEMOUTH, SEPTEMBER 1886.

DEAR LOCKER, - You take my verses too kindly, but you will admit,  for such a bluebottle of
a versifier to enter the house of  Gertrude, where her necklace hangs, was not a little brave.
Your  kind invitation, I fear, must remain unaccented; and yet - if I am  very well - perhaps
next spring - (for I mean to be very well) - my  wife might....  But all that is in the clouds
with my better  health.  And now look here:  you are a rich man and know many  people, therefore
perhaps some of the Governors of Christ's  Hospital.  If you do, I know a most deserving case,
in which I  would (if I could) do anything.  To approach you, in this way, is  not decent;
and you may therefore judge by my doing it, how near  this matter lies to my heart.  I enclose
you a list of the  Governors, which I beg you to return, whether or not you shall be  able
to do anything to help me.

The boy's name is -; he and his mother are very poor.  It may  interest you in her cause if
I tell you this:  that when I was  dangerously ill at Hyeres, this brave lady, who had then
a sick  husband of her own (since dead) and a house to keep and a family of  four to cook for,
all with her own hands, for they could afford no  servant, yet took watch-about with my wife,
and contributed not  only to my comfort, but to my recovery in a degree that I am not  able
to limit.  You can conceive how much I suffer from my  impotence to help her, and indeed I
have already shown myself a  thankless friend.  No, my dear Locker,  I did not want a cheque;
and in my ignorance of business, which is  greater even than my ignorance of literature, I
have taken the  liberty of drawing a pen through the document and returning it;  should this
be against the laws of God or man, forgive me.  All  that I meant by my excessively disgusting
reference to your  material well-being was the vague notion that a man who is well off  was
sure to know a Governor of Christ's Hospital; though how I  quite arrived at this conclusion
I do not see.  A man with a cold  in the head does not necessarily know a ratcatcher; and the
connection is equally close - as it now appears to my awakened and  somewhat humbled spirit.
For all that, let me thank you in the  warmest manner for your friendly readiness to contribute.
You say  you have hopes of becoming a miser:  I wish I had; but indeed I  believe you deceive
yourself, and are as far from it as ever.  I  wish I had any excuse to keep your cheque, for
it is much more  elegant to receive than to return; but I have my way of making it  up to you,
and I do sincerely beg you to write to the two  Governors.  This extraordinary outpouring of
correspondence would  (if you knew my habits) convince you of my great eagerness in this  matter.
I would promise gratitude; but I have made a promise to  myself to make no more promises to
anybody else, having broken such  a host already, and come near breaking my heart in consequence;
and  as for gratitude, I am by nature a thankless dog, and was spoiled  from a child up.  But
if you can help this lady in the matter of  the Hospital, you will have helped the worthy.
Let me continue to  hope that I shall make out my visit in the spring, and believe me,  yours
very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

It may amuse you to know that a very long while ago, I broke my  heart to try to imitate your
verses, and failed hopelessly.  I saw  some of the evidences the other day among my papers,
and blushed to  the heels.

R. L. S.

I give up finding out your name in the meantime, and keep to that  by which you will be known
- Frederick Locker.

Letter:  TO FREDERICK LOCKER-LAMPSON

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH], 24TH SEPTEMBER 1886.

MY DEAR LOCKER, - You are simply an angel of light, and your two  letters have gone to the
post; I trust they will reach the hearts  of the recipients - at least, that could not be more
handsomely  expressed.  About the cheque:  well now, I am going to keep it; but  I assure you
Mrs. - has never asked me for money, and I would not  dare to offer any till she did.  For
all that I shall stick to the  cheque now, and act to that amount as your almoner.  In this
way I  reward myself for the ambiguity of my epistolary style.

I suppose, if you please, you may say your verses are thin (would  you so describe an arrow,
by the way, and one that struck the gold?   It scarce strikes me as exhaustively descriptive),
and, thin or  not, they are (and I have found them) inimitably elegant.  I thank  you again
very sincerely for the generous trouble you have taken in  this matter which was so near my
heart, and you may be very certain  it will be the fault of my health and not my inclination,
if I do  not see you before very long; for all that has past has made me in  more than the
official sense sincerely yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

SKERRYVORE, DEC. 14, 1886.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - This is first-rate of you, the Lord love you for  it!  I am truly much obliged.
He - my father - is very changeable;  at times, he seems only a slow quiet edition of himself;
again, he  will be very heavy and blank; but never so violent as last spring;  and therefore,
to my mind, better on the whole.

Fanny is pretty peepy; I am splendid.  I have been writing much  verse - quite the bard, in
fact; and also a dam tale to order,  which will be what it will be:  I don't love it, but some
of it is  passable in its mouldy way, THE MISADVENTURES OF JOHN NICHOLSON.   All my bardly
exercises are in Scotch; I have struck my somewhat  ponderous guitar in that tongue to no small
extent:  with what  success, I know not, but I think it's better than my English verse;  more
marrow and fatness, and more ruggedness.

How goes KEATS?  Pray remark, if he (Keats) hung back from Shelley,  it was not to be wondered
at, WHEN SO MANY OF HIS FRIENDS WERE  SHELLEY'S PENSIONERS.  I forget if you have made this
point; it has  been borne in upon me reading Dowden and the SHELLEY PAPERS; and it  will do
no harm if you have made it.  I finished a poem to-day, and  writ 3000 words of a story, TANT
BIEN QUE MAL; and have a right to  be sleepy, and (what is far nobler and rarer) am so. - My
dear  Colvin, ever yours,

THE REAL MACKAY.

Letter:  TO FREDERICK LOCKER-LAMPSON

SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, FEBRUARY 5TH, 1887.

MY DEAR LOCKER, - Here I am in my bed as usual, and it is indeed a  long while since I went
out to dinner.  You do not know what a  crazy fellow this is.  My winter has not so far been
luckily  passed, and all hope of paying visits at Easter has vanished for  twelve calendar
months.  But because I am a beastly and indurated  invalid, I am not dead to human feelings;
and I neither have  forgotten you nor will forget you.  I suppose (to judge  by your letter)
I need not send you these sheets, which came during  my collapse by the rush.  I am on the
start with three volumes,  that one of tales, a second one of essays, and one of - ahem - 
verse.  This is a great order, is it not?  After that I shall have  empty lockers.  All new
work stands still; I was getting on well  with Jenkin when this blessed malady unhorsed me,
and sent me back  to the dung-collecting trade of the republisher.  I shall re-issue  VIRG.
PUER. as Vol. I. of ESSAYS, and the new vol. as Vol. II. of  ditto; to be sold, however, separately.
This is but a dry  maundering; however, I am quite unfit - 'I am for action quite  unfit Either
of exercise or wit.'  My father is in a variable  state; many sorrows and perplexities environ
the house of  Stevenson; my mother shoots north at this hour on business of a  distinctly rancid
character; my father (under my wife's tutorage)  proceeds to-morrow to Salisbury; I remain
here in my bed and  whistle; in no quarter of heaven is anything encouraging apparent,  except
that the good Colvin comes to the hotel here on a visit.   This dreary view of life is somewhat
blackened by the fact that my  head aches, which I always regard as a liberty on the part of
the  powers that be.  This is also my first letter since my recovery.   God speed your laudatory
pen!

My wife joins in all warm messages. - Yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

(APRIL 1887.)

MY DEAR LOW, - The fares to London may be found in any continental  Bradshaw or sich; from
London to Bournemouth impoverished parties  who can stoop to the third class get their ticket
for the matter of  10s., or, as my wife loves to phrase it, 'a half a pound.'  You  will also
be involved in a 3s. fare to get to Skerryvore; but this,  I dare say, friends could help you
in on your arrival; so that you  may reserve your energies for the two tickets - costing the
matter  of a pound - and the usual gratuities to porters.  This does not  seem to me much:
considering the intellectual pleasures that await  you here, I call it dirt cheap.  I BELIEVE
the third class from  Paris to London (VIA Dover) is ABOUT forty francs, but I cannot  swear.
Suppose it to be fifty.

50x2=100

The expense of spirit or spontaneous lapse of coin on the journey,  at 5 frcs. a head, 5x2=10

Victuals on ditto, at 5 frcs. a head, 5x2 = 10

Gratuity to stewardess, in case of severe prostration, at 3 francs

One night in London, on a modest footing, say 20

Two tickets to Bournemouth at 12.50, 12.50x2=25

Porters and general devilment, say 5

Cabs in London, say 2 shillings, and in Bournemouth, 3 shillings=5  shillings, 6 frcs. 25

Total frcs. 179.25

Or, the same in pounds, 7 pounds, 3s. 6 and a half d.

 Or, the same in dollars, $35.45,

if there be any arithmetical virtue in me.  I have left out dinner  in London in case you want
to blow out, which would come extry, and  with the aid of VANGS FANGS might easily double the
whole amount -  above all if you have a few friends to meet you.

In making this valuable project, or budget, I discovered for the  first time a reason (frequently
overlooked) for the singular  costliness of travelling with your wife.  Anybody would count
the  tickets double; but how few would have remembered - or indeed has  any one ever remembered?
- to count the spontaneous lapse of coin  double also?  Yet there are two of you, each must
do his daily  leakage, and it must be done out of your travelling fund.  You will  tell me,
perhaps, that you carry the coin yourself:  my dear sir,  do you think you can fool your Maker?
Your wife has to lose her  quota; and by God she will - if you kept the coin in a belt.  One
thing I have omitted:  you will lose a certain amount on the  exchange, but this even I cannot
foresee, as it is one of the few  things that vary with the way a man has. - I am, dear sir,
yours  financially,

SAMUEL BUDGETT.

Letter:  TO ALISON CUNNINGHAM

SKERRYVORE, APRIL 16TH, 1887.

MY DEAREST CUMMY, - As usual, I have been a dreary bad fellow and  not written for ages; but
you must just try to forgive me, to  believe (what is the truth) that the number of my letters
is no  measure of the number of times I think of you, and to remember how  much writing I have
to do.  The weather is bright, but still cold;  and my father, I'm afraid, feels it sharply.
He has had - still  has, rather - a most obstinate jaundice, which has reduced him  cruelly
in strength, and really upset him altogether.  I hope, or  think, he is perhaps a little better;
but he suffers much, cannot  sleep at night, and gives John and my mother a severe life of
it to  wait upon him.  My wife is, I think, a little better, but no great  shakes.  I keep
mightily respectable myself.

Coolin's Tombstone is now built into the front wall of Skerryvore,  and poor Bogie's (with
a Latin inscription also) is set just above  it.  Poor, unhappy wee man, he died, as you must
have heard, in  fight, which was what he would have chosen; for military glory was  more in
his line than the domestic virtues.  I believe this is  about all my news, except that, as
I write, there is a blackbird  singing in our garden trees, as it were at Swanston.  I would
like  fine to go up the burnside a bit, and sit by the pool and be young  again - or no, be
what I am still, only there instead of here, for  just a little.  Did you see that I had written
about John Todd?  In  this month's LONGMAN it was; if you have not seen it, I will try  and
send it you.  Some day climb as high as Halkerside for me (I am  never likely to do it for
myself), and sprinkle some of the well  water on the turf.  I am afraid it is a pagan rite,
but quite  harmless, and YE CAN SAIN IT WI' A BIT PRAYER.  Tell the Peewies  that I mind their
forbears well.  My heart is sometimes heavy, and  sometimes glad to mind it all.  But for what
we have received, the  Lord make us truly thankful.  Don't forget to sprinkle the water,  and
do it in my name; I feel a childish eagerness in this.

Remember me most kindly to James, and with all sorts of love to  yourself, believe me, your laddie,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - I suppose Mrs. Todd ought to see the paper about her man;  judge of that, and if you
think she would not dislike it, buy her  one from me, and let me know.  The article is called
'Pastoral,' in  LONGMAN'S MAGAZINE for April.  I will send you the money; I would  to-day,
but it's the Sabbie day, and I cannae.

R. L. S.

Remembrances from all here.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

 [EDINBURGH, JUNE 1887.]

MY DEAR S. C., - At last I can write a word to you.  Your little  note in the P. M. G. was
charming.  I have written four pages in  the CONTEMPORARY, which Bunting found room for:  they
are not very  good, but I shall do more for his memory in time.

About the death, I have long hesitated, I was long before I could  tell my mind; and now I
know it, and can but say that I am glad.   If we could have had my father, that would have
been a different  thing.  But to keep that changeling - suffering changeling - any  longer,
could better none and nothing.  Now he rests; it is more  significant, it is more like himself.
He will begin to return to  us in the course of time, as he was and as we loved him.

My favourite words in literature, my favourite scene - 'O let him  pass,' Kent and Lear - was
played for me here in the first moment  of my return.  I believe Shakespeare saw it with his
own father.  I  had no words; but it was shocking to see.  He died on his feet, you  know;
was on his feet the last day, knowing nobody - still he would  be up.  This was his constant
wish; also that he might smoke a pipe  on his last day.  The funeral would have pleased him;
it was the  largest private funeral in man's memory here.

We have no plans, and it is possible we may go home without going  through town.  I do not
know; I have no views yet whatever; nor can  have any at this stage of my cold and my business.
- Ever yours,

R. L. S.

CHAPTER IX - THE UNITED STATES AGAIN:  WINTER IN THE ADIRONDACKS,  AUGUST 1887-OCTOBER 1888

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH], AUGUST 1887.

DEAR LAD, - I write to inform you that Mr. Stevenson's well-known  work, VIRGINIBUS PUERISQUE,
is about to be reprinted.  At the same  time a second volume called MEMORIES AND PORTRAITS
will issue from  the roaring loom.  Its interest will be largely autobiographical,  Mr. S.
having sketched there the lineaments of many departed  friends, and dwelt fondly, and with
a m'istened eye, upon byegone  pleasures.  The two will be issued under the common title of
FAMILIAR ESSAYS; but the volumes will be vended separately to those  who are mean enough not
to hawk at both.

The blood is at last stopped:  only yesterday.  I began to think I  should not get away.  However,
I hope - I hope - remark the word -  no boasting - I hope I may luff up a bit now.  Dobell,
whom I saw,  gave as usual a good account of my lungs, and expressed himself,  like his neighbours,
hopefully about the trip.  He says, my uncle  says, Scott says, Brown says - they all say -
You ought not to be  in such a state of health; you should recover.  Well, then, I mean  to.
My spirits are rising again after three months of black  depression:  I almost begin to feel
as if I should care to live:  I  would, by God!  And so I believe I shall. - Yours, BULLETIN
M'GURDER.

How has the Deacon gone?

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH], August 6TH, 1887.

MY DEAR LOW, - We - my mother, my wife, my stepson, my maidservant,  and myself, five souls
- leave, if all is well, Aug. 20th, per  Wilson line SS. LUDGATE HILL.  Shall probably evade
N. Y. at first,  cutting straight to a watering-place:  Newport, I believe, its  name.  Afterwards
we shall steal incognito into LA BONNE VILLA, and  see no one but you and the Scribners, if
it may be so managed.  You  must understand I have been very seedy indeed, quite a dead body;
and unless the voyage does miracles, I shall have to draw it dam  fine.  Alas, 'The Canoe Speaks'
is now out of date; it will figure  in my volume of verses now imminent.  However, I may find
some  inspiration some day. - Till very soon, yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MISS ADELAIDE BOODLE

BOURNEMOUTH, AUGUST 19TH, 1887.

MY DEAR MISS BOODLE, - I promise you the paper-knife shall go to  sea with me; and if it were
in my disposal, I should promise it  should return with me too.  All that you say, I thank
you for very  much; I thank you for all the pleasantness that you have brought  about our house;
and I hope the day may come when I shall see you  again in poor old Skerryvore, now left to
the natives of Canada, or  to worse barbarians, if such exist.  I am afraid my attempt to jest
is rather A CONTRE-COEUR.  Good-bye - AU REVOIR - and do not forget  your friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MESSRS. CHATTO AND WINDUS

BOURNEMOUTH [AUGUST 1887].

DEAR SIRS, - I here enclose the two titles.  Had you not better  send me the bargains to sign?
I shall be here till Saturday; and  shall have an address in London (which I shall send you)
till  Monday, when I shall sail.  Even if the proofs do not reach you  till Monday morning,
you could send a clerk from Fenchurch Street  Station at 10.23 A.M. for Galleons Station, and
he would find me  embarking on board the LUDGATE HILL, Island Berth, Royal Albert  Dock.  Pray
keep this in case it should be necessary to catch this  last chance.  I am most anxious to
have the proofs with me on the  voyage. - Yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

H.M.S. 'VULGARIUM,' OFF HAVRE DE GRACE, THIS 22ND DAY OF AUGUST [1887].

SIR, - The weather has been hitherto inimitable.  Inimitable is the  only word that I can apply
to our fellow-voyagers, whom a  categorist, possibly premature, has been already led to divide
into  two classes - the better sort consisting of the baser kind of  Bagman, and the worser
of undisguised Beasts of the Field.  The  berths are excellent, the pasture swallowable, the
champagne of H.  James (to recur to my favourite adjective) inimitable.  As for the  Commodore,
he slept awhile in the evening, tossed off a cup of  Henry James with his plain meal, walked
the deck till eight, among  sands and floating lights and buoys and wrecked brigantines, came
down (to his regret) a minute too soon to see Margate lit up,  turned in about nine, slept,
with some interruptions, but on the  whole sweetly, until six, and has already walked a mile
or so of  deck, among a fleet of other steamers waiting for the tide, within  view of Havre,
and pleasantly entertained by passing fishing-boats,  hovering sea-gulls, and Vulgarians pairing
on deck with endearments  of primitive simplicity.  There, sir, can be viewed the sham  quarrel,
the sham desire for information, and every device of these  two poor ancient sexes (who might,
you might think, have learned in  the course of the ages something new) down to the exchange
of head- gear. - I am, sir, yours,

BOLD BOB BOLTSPRIT.

B. B. B. (ALIAS the Commodore) will now turn to his proofs.  Havre  de Grace is a city of some
show.  It is for-ti-fied; and, so far as  I can see, is a place of some trade.  It is situ-ated
in France, a  country of Europe.  You always complain there are no facts in my  letters.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

NEWPORT, R. I. U.S.A. [SEPTEMBER 1887].

MY DEAR COLVIN, - So long it went excellent well, and I had a time  I am glad to have had;
really enjoying my life.  There is nothing  like being at sea, after all.  And O, why have
I allowed myself to  rot so long on land?  But on the Banks I caught a cold, and I have  not
yet got over it.  My reception here was idiotic to the last  degree....  It is very silly,
and not pleasant, except where humour  enters; and I confess the poor interviewer lads pleased
me.  They  are too good for their trade; avoided anything I asked them to  avoid, and were
no more vulgar in their reports than they could  help.  I liked the lads.

O, it was lovely on our stable-ship, chock full of stallions.  She  rolled heartily, rolled
some of the fittings out of our state-room,  and I think a more dangerous cruise (except that
it was summer) it  would be hard to imagine.  But we enjoyed it to the masthead, all  but Fanny;
and even she perhaps a little.  When we got in, we had  run out of beer, stout, cocoa, soda-water,
water, fresh meat, and  (almost) of biscuit.  But it was a thousandfold pleasanter than a 
great big Birmingham liner like a new hotel; and we liked the  officers, and made friends with
the quartermasters, and I (at  least) made a friend of a baboon (for we carried a cargo of
apes),  whose embraces have pretty near cost me a coat.  The passengers  improved, and were
a very good specimen lot, with no drunkard, no  gambling that I saw, and less grumbling and
backbiting than one  would have asked of poor human nature.  Apes, stallions, cows,  matches,
hay, and poor men-folk, all, or almost all, came  successfully to land. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO HENRY JAMES

[NEWPORT, U.S.A., SEPTEMBER 1887.]

MY DEAR JAMES, - Here we are at Newport in the house of the good  Fairchilds; and a sad burthen
we have laid upon their shoulders.  I  have been in bed practically ever since I came.

My wife is a good deal run down, and I am no great shakes.

America is, as I remarked, a fine place to eat in, and a great  place for kindness; but, Lord,
what a silly thing is popularity!  I  envy the cool obscurity of Skerryvore.  If it even paid,
said  Meanness! and was abashed at himself. - Yours most sincerely,

R. L S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[NEW YORK:  END OF SEPTEMBER 1887.]

MY DEAR S. C., - Your delightful letter has just come, and finds me  in a New York hotel, waiting
the arrival of a sculptor (St.  Gaudens) who is making a medallion of yours truly and who is
(to  boot) one of the handsomest and nicest fellows I have seen.  I  caught a cold on the Banks;
fog is not for me; nearly died of  interviewers and visitors, during twenty-four hours in New
York;  cut for Newport with Lloyd and Valentine, a journey like fairy-land  for the most engaging
beauties, one little rocky and pine-shaded  cove after another, each with a house and a boat
at anchor, so that  I left my heart in each and marvelled why American authors had been  so
unjust to their country; caught another cold on the train;  arrived at Newport to go to bed
and to grow worse, and to stay in  bed until I left again; the Fairchilds proving during this
time  kindness itself; Mr. Fairchild simply one of the most engaging men  in the world, and
one of the children, Blair, AET. ten, a great joy  and amusement in his solemn adoring attitude
to the author of  TREASURE ISLAND.

Here I was interrupted by the arrival of my sculptor.  I have  begged him to make a medallion
of himself and give me a copy.  I  will not take up the sentence in which I was wandering so
long, but  begin fresh.  I was ten or twelve days at Newport; then came back  convalescent
to New York.  Fanny and Lloyd are off to the  Adirondacks to see if that will suit; and the
rest of us leave  Monday (this is Saturday) to follow them up.  I hope we may manage  to stay
there all winter.  I have a splendid appetite and have on  the whole recovered well after a
mighty sharp attack.  I am now on  a salary of 500 pounds a year for twelve articles in SCRIBNER'S
MAGAZINE on what I like; it is more than 500 pounds, but I cannot  calculate more precisely.
You have no idea how much is made of me  here; I was offered 2000 pounds for a weekly article
- eh heh! how  is that? but I refused that lucrative job.  The success of  UNDERWOODS is gratifying.
You see, the verses are sane; that is  their strong point, and it seems it is strong enough
to carry them.

A thousand thanks for your grand letter, ever yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

NEW YORK [SEPTEMBER 1887]

MY DEAR LAD, - Herewith verses for Dr. Hake, which please  communicate.  I did my best with
the interviewers; I don't know if  Lloyd sent you the result; my heart was too sick:  you can
do  nothing with them; and yet - literally sweated with anxiety to  please, and took me down
in long hand!

I have been quite ill, but go better.  I am being not busted, but  medallioned, by St. Gaudens,
who is a first-rate, plain, high- minded artist and honest fellow; you would like him down
to the  ground.  I believe sculptors are fine fellows when they are not  demons.  O, I am now
a salaried person, 600 pounds a year, to write  twelve articles in SCRIBNER'S MAGAZINE; it
remains to be seen if it  really pays, huge as the sum is, but the slavery may overweigh me.
I hope you will like my answer to Hake, and specially that he will.

Love to all. - Yours affectionately,

R. L. S.

(LE SALARIE).

Letter:  To R. A. M. STEVENSON

SARANAC LAKE, ADIRONDACKS, NEW YORK, U.S.A. [OCTOBER 1887].

MY DEAR BOB, - The cold [of Colorado] was too rigorous for me; I  could not risk the long railway
voyage, and the season was too late  to risk the Eastern, Cape Hatteras side of the steamer
one; so here  we stuck and stick.  We have a wooden house on a hill-top,  overlooking a river,
and a village about a quarter of a mile away,  and very wooded hills; the whole scene is very
Highland, bar want  of heather and the wooden houses.  We took so north a course, that we saw
Newfoundland; no one in the ship had ever seen it before.

It was beyond belief to me how she rolled; in seemingly smooth  water, the bell striking, the
fittings bounding out of our state- room.  It is worth having lived these last years, partly
because I  have written some better books, which is always pleasant, but  chiefly to have had
the joy of this voyage.  I have been made a lot  of here, and it is sometimes pleasant, sometimes
the reverse; but I  could give it all up, and agree that - was the author of my works,  for
a good seventy ton schooner and the coins to keep her on.  And  to think there are parties
with yachts who would make the exchange!  I should do it south by the West Indies, to avoid
the damned Banks; and probably come home by steamer, and leave the  skipper to bring the yacht
home.

Well, if all goes well, we shall maybe sail out of Southampton  water some of these days and
take a run to Havre, and try the  Baltic, or somewhere.

Love to you all. - Ever your afft.,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

SARANAC LAKE, OCT. 8TH, 1887.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - I have just read your article twice, with cheers  of approving laughter. 
I do not believe you ever wrote anything so  funny:  Tyndall's 'shell,' the passage on the
Davos press and its  invaluable issues, and that on V. Hugo and Swinburne, are  exquisite;
so, I say it more ruefully, is the touch about the  doctors.  For the rest, I am very glad
you like my verses so well;  and the qualities you ascribe to them seem to me well found and
well named.  I own to that kind of candour you attribute to me:   when I am frankly interested,
I suppose I fancy the public will be  so too; and when I am moved, I am sure of it.  It has
been my luck  hitherto to meet with no staggering disillusion.  'Before' and  'After' may be
two; and yet I believe the habit is now too  thoroughly ingrained to be altered.  About the
doctors, you were  right, that dedication has been the subject of some pleasantries  that made
me grind, and of your happily touched reproof which made  me blush.  And to miscarry in a dedication
is an abominable form of  book-wreck; I am a good captain, I would rather lose the tent and
save my dedication.

I am at Saranac Lake in the Adirondacks, I suppose for the winter:   it seems a first-rate
place; we have a house in the eye of many  winds, with a view of a piece of running water -
Highland, all but  the dear hue of peat - and of many hills - Highland also, but for  the lack
of heather.  Soon the snow will close on us; we are here  some twenty miles - twenty-seven,
they say, but this I profoundly  disbelieve - in the woods; communication by letter is slow
and (let  me be consistent) aleatory; by telegram is as near as may be  impossible.

I had some experience of American appreciation; I liked a little of  it, but there is too much;
a little of that would go a long way to  spoil a man; and I like myself better in the woods.
I am so damned  candid and ingenuous (for a cynic), and so much of a 'cweatu' of  impulse -
aw' (if you remember that admirable Leech), that I begin  to shirk any more taffy; I think
I begin to like it too well.  But  let us trust the Gods; they have a rod in pickle; reverently
I doff  my trousers, and with screwed eyes await the AMARI ALIQUID of the  great God Busby.

I thank you for the article in all ways, and remain yours  affectionately,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

[SARANAC, OCTOBER 1887.]

SIR,  - I have to trouble you with the following PAROLES BIEN  SENTIES.  We are here at a first-rate
place.  'Baker's' is the name  of our house, but we don't address there; we prefer the tender
care  of the Post-Office, as more aristocratic (it is no use to telegraph  even to the care
of the Post-Office who does not give a single  damn).  Baker's has a prophet's chamber, which
the hypercritical  might describe as a garret with a hole in the floor:  in that  garret, sir,
I have to trouble you and your wife to come and  slumber.  Not now, however:  with manly hospitality,
I choke off  any sudden impulse.  Because first, my wife and my mother are gone  (a note for
the latter, strongly suspected to be in the hand of  your talented wife, now sits silent on
the mantel shelf), one to  Niagara and t'other to Indianapolis.  Because, second, we are not
yet installed.  And because third, I won't have you till I have a  buffalo robe and leggings,
lest you should want to paint me as a  plain man, which I am not, but a rank Saranacker and
wild man of  the woods. - Yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO WILLIAM ARCHER.

SARANAC LAKE, OCTOBER 1887.

DEAR ARCHER, - Many thanks for the Wondrous Tale.  It is scarcely a  work of genius, as I believe
you felt.  Thanks also for your  pencillings; though I defend 'shrew,' or at least many of
the  shrews.

We are here (I suppose) for the winter in the Adirondacks, a hill  and forest country on the
Canadian border of New York State, very  unsettled and primitive and cold, and healthful, or
we are the more  bitterly deceived.  I believe it will do well for me; but must not  boast.

My wife is away to Indiana to see her family; my mother, Lloyd, and  I remain here in the cold,
which has been exceeding sharp, and the  hill air, which is inimitably fine.  We all eat bravely,
and sleep  well, and make great fires, and get along like one o'clock,

I am now a salaried party; I am a BOURGEOIS now; I am to write a  weekly paper for Scribner's,
at a scale of payment which makes my  teeth ache for shame and diffidence.  The editor is,
I believe, to  apply to you; for we were talking over likely men, and when I  instanced you,
he said he had had his eye upon you from the first.   It is worth while, perhaps, to get in
tow with the Scribners; they  are such thorough gentlefolk in all ways that it is always a
pleasure to deal with them.  I am like to be a millionaire if this  goes on, and be publicly
hanged at the social revolution:  well, I  would prefer that to dying in my bed; and it would
be a godsend to  my biographer, if ever I have one.  What are you about?  I hope you  are all
well and in good case and spirits, as I am now, after a  most nefast experience of despondency
before I left; but indeed I  was quite run down.  Remember me to Mrs. Archer, and give my 
respects to Tom. - Yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO HENRY JAMES

[SARANAC LAKE, OCTOBER 1887.]  I know not the day; but the month it  is the drear October by
the ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir

MY DEAR HENRY JAMES, - This is to say FIRST, the voyage was a huge  success.  We all enjoyed
it (bar my wife) to the ground:  sixteen  days at sea with a cargo of hay, matches, stallions,
and monkeys,  and in a ship with no style on, and plenty of sailors to talk to,  and the endless
pleasures of the sea - the romance of it, the sport  of the scratch dinner and the smashing
crockery, the pleasure - an  endless pleasure - of balancing to the swell:  well, it's over.

SECOND, I had a fine time, rather a troubled one, at Newport and  New York; saw much of and
liked hugely the Fairchilds, St. Gaudens  the sculptor, Gilder of the CENTURY - just saw the
dear Alexander -  saw a lot of my old and admirable friend Will Low, whom I wish you  knew
and appreciated - was medallioned by St. Gaudens, and at last  escaped to

THIRD, Saranac Lake, where we now are, and which I believe we mean  to like and pass the winter
at.  Our house - emphatically 'Baker's'  - is on a hill, and has a sight of a stream turning
a corner in the  valley - bless the face of running water! - and sees some hills  too, and
the paganly prosaic roofs of Saranac itself; the Lake it  does not see, nor do I regret that;
I like water (fresh water I  mean) either running swiftly among stones, or else largely  qualified
with whisky.  As I write, the sun (which has been long a  stranger) shines in at my shoulder;
from the next room, the bell of  Lloyd's typewriter makes an agreeable music as it patters
off (at a  rate which astonishes this experienced novelist) the early chapters  of a humorous
romance; from still further off - the walls of  Baker's are neither ancient nor massive - rumours
of Valentine  about the kitchen stove come to my ears; of my mother and Fanny I  hear nothing,
for the excellent reason that they have gone sparking  off, one to Niagara, one to Indianapolis.
People complain that I  never give news in my letters.  I have wiped out that reproach.

But now, FOURTH, I have seen the article; and it may be from  natural partiality, I think it
the best you have written.  O - I  remember the Gautier, which was an excellent performance;
and the  Balzac, which was good; and the Daudet, over which I licked my  chops; but the R.
L. S. is better yet.  It is so humorous, and it  hits my little frailties with so neat (and
so friendly) a touch;  and Alan is the occasion for so much happy talk, and the quarrel is
so generously praised.  I read it twice, though it was only some  hours in my possession; and
Low, who got it for me from the  CENTURY, sat up to finish it ere he returned it; and, sir,
we were  all delighted.  Here is the paper out, nor will anything, not even  friendship, not
even gratitude for the article, induce me to begin  a second sheet; so here with the kindest
remembrances and the  warmest good wishes, I remain, yours affectionately,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

SARANAC, 18TH NOVEMBER 1887.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - No likely I'm going to waste a sheet of paper. .  . .  I am offered 1600
pounds ($8000) for the American serial  rights on my next story!  As you say, times are changed
since the  Lothian Road.  Well, the Lothian Road was grand fun too; I could  take an afternoon
of it with great delight.  But I'm awfu' grand  noo, and long may it last!

Remember me to any of the faithful - if there are any left.  I wish  I could have a crack with
you. - Yours ever affectionately,

R. L. S.

I find I have forgotten more than I remembered of business. . . .   Please let us know (if
you know) for how much Skerryvore is let;  you will here detect the female mind; I let it for
what I could  get; nor shall the possession of this knowledge (which I am happy  to have forgot)
increase the amount by so much as the shadow of a  sixpenny piece; but my females are agog.
- Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES SCRIBNER

[SARANAC, NOVEMBER 20 OR 21, 1887.]

MY DEAR MR. SCRIBNER, - Heaven help me, I am under a curse just  now.  I have played fast and
loose with what I said to you; and  that, I beg you to believe, in the purest innocence of
mind.  I  told you you should have the power over all my work in this  country; and about a
fortnight ago, when M'Clure was here, I calmly  signed a bargain for the serial publication
of a story.  You will  scarce believe that I did this in mere oblivion; but I did; and all
that I can say is that I will do so no more, and ask you to forgive  me.  Please write to me
soon as to this.

Will you oblige me by paying in for three articles, as already  sent, to my account with John
Paton & Co., 52 William Street?  This  will be most convenient for us.

The fourth article is nearly done; and I am the more deceived, or  it is A BUSTER.

Now as to the first thing in this letter, I do wish to hear from  you soon; and I am prepared
to hear any reproach, or (what is  harder to hear) any forgiveness; for I have deserved the
worst. -  Yours sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

SARANAC, NOVEMBER 1887.

DEAR MR. BURLINGAME, - I enclose corrected proof of BEGGARS, which  seems good.  I mean to
make a second sermon, which, if it is about  the same length as PULVIS ET UMBRA, might go in
along with it as  two sermons, in which case I should call the first 'The Whole  Creation,'
and the second 'Any Good.'  We shall see; but you might  say how you like the notion.

One word:  if you have heard from Mr. Scribner of my unhappy  oversight in the matter of a
story, you will make me ashamed to  write to you, and yet I wish to beg you to help me into
quieter  waters.  The oversight committed - and I do think it was not so bad  as Mr. Scribner
seems to think it-and discovered, I was in a  miserable position.  I need not tell you that
my first impulse was  to offer to share or to surrender the price agreed upon when it  should
fall due; and it is almost to my credit that I arranged to  refrain.  It is one of these positions
from which there is no  escape; I cannot undo what I have done.  And I wish to beg you -  should
Mr. Scribner speak to you in the matter - to try to get him  to see this neglect of mine for
no worse than it is:  unpardonable  enough, because a breach of an agreement; but still pardonable,
because a piece of sheer carelessness and want of memory, done, God  knows, without design
and since most sincerely regretted.  I have  no memory.  You have seen how I omitted to reserve
the American  rights in JEKYLL:  last winter I wrote and demanded, as an  increase, a less
sum than had already been agreed upon for a story  that I gave to Cassell's.  For once that
my forgetfulness has, by a  cursed fortune, seemed to gain, instead of lose, me money, it is
painful indeed that I should produce so poor an impression on the  mind of Mr. Scribner.  But
I beg you to believe, and if possible to  make him believe, that I am in no degree or sense
a FAISEUR, and  that in matters of business my design, at least, is honest.  Nor  (bating bad
memory and self-deception) am I untruthful in such  affairs.  Herewith a third paper:   it
has been a cruel long time upon the road, but here it is, and  not bad at last, I fondly hope.
I was glad you liked the LANTERN  BEARERS; I did, too.  I thought it was a good paper, really
contained some excellent sense, and was ingeniously put together.   I have not often had more
trouble than I have with these papers;  thirty or forty pages of foul copy, twenty is the very
least I have  had.  Well, you pay high; it is fit that I should have to work  hard, it somewhat
quiets my conscience. - Yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO J. A. SYMONDS

SARANAC LAKE, ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS, NEW YORK, U.S.A., NOVEMBER 21,  1887.

MY DEAR SYMONDS, - I think we have both meant and wanted to write  to you any time these months;
but we have been much tossed about,  among new faces and old, and new scenes and old, and scenes
(like  this of Saranac) which are neither one nor other.  To give you some  clue to our affairs,
I had best begin pretty well back.  We sailed  from the Thames in a vast bucket of iron that
took seventeen days  from shore to shore.  I cannot describe how I enjoyed the voyage,  nor
what good it did me; but on the Banks I caught friend catarrh.   In New York and then in Newport
I was pretty ill; but on my return  to New York, lying in bed most of the time, with St. Gaudens
the  sculptor sculping me, and my old friend Low around, I began to pick  up once more.  Now
here we are in a kind of wilderness of hills and  firwoods and boulders and snow and wooden
houses.  So far as we  have gone the climate is grey and harsh, but hungry and somnolent; 
and although not charming like that of Davos, essentially bracing  and briskening.  The country
is a kind of insane mixture of  Scotland and a touch of Switzerland and a dash of America,
and a  thought of the British Channel in the skies.  We have a decent  house -

DECEMBER 6TH.

- A decent house, as I was saying, sir, on a hill-top, with a look  down a Scottish river in
front, and on one hand a Perthshire hill;  on the other, the beginnings and skirts of the village
play hide  and seek among other hills.  We have been below zero, I know not  how far (10 at
8 A.M. once), and when it is cold it is delightful;  but hitherto the cold has not held, and
we have chopped in and out  from frost to thaw, from snow to rain, from quiet air to the most
disastrous north-westerly curdlers of the blood.  After a week of  practical thaw, the ice
still bears in favoured places.  So there  is hope.

I wonder if you saw my book of verses?  It went into a second  edition, because of my name,
I suppose, and its PROSE merits.  I do  not set up to be a poet.  Only an all-round literary
man:  a man  who talks, not one who sings.  But I believe the very fact that it  was only speech
served the book with the public.  Horace is much a  speaker, and see how popular! most of Martial
is only speech, and I  cannot conceive a person who does not love his Martial; most of  Burns,
also, such as 'The Louse,' 'The Toothache,' 'The Haggis,'  and lots more of his best.  Excuse
this little apology for my  house; but I don't like to come before people who have a note of
song, and let it be supposed I do not know the difference.

To return to the more important - news.  My wife again suffers in  high and cold places; I
again profit.  She is off to-day to New  York for a change, as heretofore to Berne, but I am
glad to say in  better case than then.  Still it is undeniable she suffers, and you  must excuse
her (at least) if we both prove bad correspondents.  I  am decidedly better, but I have been
terribly cut up with business  complications:  one disagreeable, as threatening loss; one,
of the  most intolerable complexion, as involving me in dishonour.  The  burthen of consistent
carelessness:  I have lost much by it in the  past; and for once (to my damnation) I have gained.
I am sure you  will sympathise.  It is hard work to sleep; it is hard to be told  you are a
liar, and have to hold your peace, and think, 'Yes, by  God, and a thief too!'  You remember
my lectures on Ajax, or the  Unintentional Sin?  Well, I know all about that now.  Nothing
seems  so unjust to the sufferer:  or is more just in essence.  LAISSEZ  PASSER LA JUSTICE DE DIEU.

Lloyd has learned to use the typewriter, and has most gallantly  completed upon that the draft
of a tale, which seems to me not  without merit and promise, it is so silly, so gay, so absurd,
in  spots (to my partial eyes) so genuinely humorous.  It is true, he  would not have written
it but for the New Arabian Nights; but it is  strange to find a young writer funny.  Heavens,
but I was  depressing when I took the pen in hand!  And now I doubt if I am  sadder than my
neighbours.  Will this beginner move in the inverse  direction?

Let me have your news, and believe me, my dear Symonds, with  genuine affection, yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

SARANAC [DECEMBER 1887].

MY DEAR LAD, - I was indeed overjoyed to hear of the Dumas.  In the  matter of the dedication,
are not cross dedications a little  awkward?  Lang and Rider Haggard did it, to be sure.  Perpend.
And  if you should conclude against a dedication, there is a passage in  MEMORIES AND PORTRAITS
written AT you, when I was most desperate  (to stir you up a bit), which might be quoted: 
something about  Dumas still waiting his biographer.  I have a decent time when the  weather
is fine; when it is grey, or windy, or wet (as it too often  is), I am merely degraded to the
dirt.  I get some work done every  day with a devil of a heave; not extra good ever; and I
regret my  engagement.  Whiles I have had the most deplorable business  annoyances too; have
been threatened with having to refund money;  got over that; and found myself in the worse
scrape of being a kind  of unintentional swindler.  These have worried me a great deal;  also
old age with his stealing steps seems to have clawed me in his  clutch to some tune.

Do you play All Fours?  We are trying it; it is still all haze to  me.  Can the elder hand
BEG more than once?  The Port Admiral is at  Boston mingling with millionaires.  I am but a
weed on Lethe wharf.   The wife is only so-so.  The Lord lead us all:  if I can only get  off
the stage with clean hands, I shall sing Hosanna.  'Put' is  described quite differently from
your version in a book I have;  what are your rules?  The Port Admiral is using a game of put
in a  tale of his, the first copy of which was gloriously finished about  a fortnight ago,
and the revise gallantly begun:  THE FINSBURY  TONTINE it is named, and might fill two volumes,
and is quite  incredibly silly, and in parts (it seems to me) pretty humorous. -  Love to all from

AN OLD, OLD MAN.

I say, Taine's ORIGINES DE LA FRANCE CONTEMPORAINE is no end; it  would turn the dead body
of Charles Fox into a living Tory.

Letter:  TO MRS. FLEEMING JENKIN

[SARANAC LAKE, DECEMBER 1887.]

MY DEAR MRS. JENKIN, - The Opal is very well; it is fed with  glycerine when it seems hungry.
I am very well, and get about much  more than I could have hoped.  My wife is not very well;
there is  no doubt the high level does not agree with her, and she is on the  move for a holiday
to New York.  Lloyd is at Boston on a visit, and  I hope has a good time.  My mother is really
first-rate; she and I,  despairing of other games for two, now play All Fours out of a  gamebook,
and have not yet discovered its niceties, if any.

You will have heard, I dare say, that they made a great row over me  here.  They also offered
me much money, a great deal more than my  works are worth:  I took some of it, and was greedy
and hasty, and  am now very sorry.  I have done with big prices from now out.   Wealth and
self-respect seem, in my case, to be strangers.

We were talking the other day of how well Fleeming managed to grow  rich.  Ah, that is a rare
art; something more intellectual than a  virtue.  The book has not yet made its appearance
here; the life  alone, with a little preface, is to appear in the States; and the  Scribners
are to send you half the royalties.  I should like it to  do well, for Fleeming's sake.

Will you please send me the Greek water-carrier's song?  I have a  particular use for it.

Have I any more news, I wonder? - and echo wonders along with me.   I am strangely disquieted
on all political matters; and I do not  know if it is 'the signs of the times' or the sign
of my own time  of life.  But to me the sky seems black both in France and England,  and only
partly clear in America.  I have not seen it so dark in my  time; of that I am sure.

Please let us have some news; and, excuse me, for the sake of my  well-known idleness; and
pardon Fanny, who is really not very well,  for this long silence. - Very sincerely your friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MISS ADELAIDE BOODLE

[SARANAC LAKE, DECEMBER 1887.]

MY DEAR MISS BOODLE, - I am so much afraid, our gamekeeper may  weary of unacknowledged reports!
Hence, in the midst of a perfect  horror of detestable weathers of a quite incongruous strain,
and  with less desire for correspondence than - well, than - well, with  no desire for correspondence,
behold me dash into the breach.  Do  keep up your letters.  They are most delightful to this
exiled  backwoods family; and in your next, we shall hope somehow or other  to hear better
news of you and yours - that in the first place -  and to hear more news of our beasts and
birds and kindly fruits of  earth and those human tenants who are (truly) too much with us.

I am very well; better than for years:  that is for good.  But then  my wife is no great shakes;
the place does not suit her - it is my  private opinion that no place does - and she is now
away down to  New York for a change, which (as Lloyd is in Boston) leaves my  mother and me
and Valentine alone in our wind-beleaguered hilltop  hatbox of a house.  You should hear the
cows butt against the walls  in the early morning while they feed; you should also see our
back  log when the thermometer goes (as it does go) away - away below  zero, till it can be
seen no more by the eye of man - not the  thermometer, which is still perfectly visible, but
the mercury,  which curls up into the bulb like a hibernating bear; you should  also see the
lad who 'does chores' for us, with his red stockings  and his thirteen year old face, and his
highly manly tramp into the  room; and his two alternative answers to all questions about the
weather:  either 'Cold,' or with a really lyrical movement of the  voice, 'LOVELY - raining!'

Will you take this miserable scarp for what it is worth?  Will you  also understand that I
am the man to blame, and my wife is really  almost too much out of health to write, or at least
doesn't write?  - And believe me, with kind remembrance to Mrs. Boodle and your  sisters, very
sincerely yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

SARANAC, 12TH DECEMBER '87.

Give us news of all your folk.  A Merry Christmas from all of us.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - Will you please send 20 pounds to - for a  Christmas gift from -?  Moreover,
I cannot remember what I told you  to send to - ; but as God has dealt so providentially with
me this  year, I now propose to make it 20 pounds.

I beg of you also to consider my strange position.  I jined a club  which it was said was to
defend the Union; and had a letter from  the secretary, which his name I believe was Lord Warmingpan
(or  words to that effect), to say I am elected, and had better pay up a  certain sum of money,
I forget what.  Now I cannae verra weel draw  a blank cheque and send to -

LORD WARMINGPAN (or words to that effect), London, England.

And, man, if it was possible, I would be dooms glad to be out o'  this bit scrapie.  Mebbe
the club was ca'd  'The Union,' but I  wouldnae like to sweir; and mebbe it wasnae, or mebbe
only words to  that effec' - but I wouldnae care just exac'ly about sweirin'.  Do  ye no think
Henley, or Pollick, or some o' they London fellies,  micht mebbe perhaps find out for me? and
just what the soom was?   And that you would aiblins pay for me?  For I thocht I was sae dam
patriotic jinin', and it would be a kind o' a come-doun to be  turned out again.  Mebbe Lang
would ken; or mebbe Rider Haggyard:   they're kind o' Union folks.  But it's my belief his
name was  Warmingpan whatever. Yours,

THOMSON, ALIAS ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Could it be Warminster?

Letter:  TO MISS MONROE

SARANAC LAKE, NEW YORK [DECEMBER 19, 1887].

DEAR MISS MONROE, - Many thanks for your letter and your good  wishes.  It was much my desire
to get to Chicago:  had I done - or  if I yet do - so, I shall hope to see the original of
my  photograph, which is one of my show possessions; but the fates are  rather contrary.  My
wife is far from well; I myself dread worse  than almost any other imaginable peril, that miraculous
and really  insane invention the American Railroad Car.  Heaven help the man -  may I add the
woman - that sets foot in one!  Ah, if it were only  an ocean to cross, it would be a matter
of small thought to me -  and great pleasure.  But the railroad car - every man has his weak
point; and I fear the railroad car as abjectly as I do an earwig,  and, on the whole, on better
grounds.  You do not know how bitter  it is to have to make such a confession; for you have
not the  pretension nor the weakness of a man.  If I do get to Chicago, you  will hear of me:
so much can be said.  And do you never come east?

I was pleased to recognise a word of my poor old Deacon in your  letter.

MY DEAR HENRY JAMES, - It may please you to know how our family has  been employed.  In the
silence of the snow the afternoon lamp has  lighted an eager fireside group:  my mother reading,
Fanny, Lloyd,  and I devoted listeners; and the work was really one of the best  works I ever
heard; and its author is to be praised and honoured;  and what do you suppose is the name of
it? and have you ever read  it yourself? and (I am bound I will get to the bottom of the page
before I blow the gaff, if I have to fight it out on this line all  summer; for if you have
not to turn a leaf, there can be no  suspense, the conspectory eye being swift to pick out
proper names;  and without suspense, there can be little pleasure in this world,  to my mind
at least) - and, in short, the name of it is RODERICK  HUDSON, if you please.  My dear James,
it is very spirited, and  very sound, and very noble too.  Hudson, Mrs. Hudson, Rowland, O,
all first-rate:  Rowland a very fine fellow; Hudson as good as he  can stick (did you know
Hudson?  I suspect you did), Mrs. H. his  real born mother, a thing rarely managed in fiction.

We are all keeping pretty fit and pretty hearty; but this letter is  not from me to you, it
is from a reader of R. H. to the author of  the same, and it says nothing, and has nothing
to say, but thank  you.

We are going to re-read CASAMASSIMA as a proper pendant.  Sir, I  think these two are your
best, and care not who knows it.

May I beg you, the next time RODERICK is printed off, to go over  the sheets of the last few
chapters, and strike out 'immense' and  'tremendous'?  You have simply dropped them there like
your pocket- handkerchief; all you have to do is to pick them up and pouch them,  and your
room - what do I say? - your cathedral! - will be swept  and garnished. - I am, dear sir, your
delighted reader,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - Perhaps it is a pang of causeless honesty, perhaps.  I hope  it will set a value on
my praise of RODERICK, perhaps it's a burst  of the diabolic, but I must break out with the
news that I can't  bear the PORTRAIT OF A LADY.  I read it all, and I wept too; but I  can't
stand your having written it; and I beg you will write no  more of the like.  INFRA, sir; Below
you:  I can't help it - it may  be your favourite work, but in my eyes it's BELOW YOU to write
and  me to read.  I thought RODERICK was going to be another such at the  beginning; and I
cannot describe my pleasure as I found it taking  bones and blood, and looking out at me with
a moved and human  countenance, whose lineaments are written in my memory until my  last of days.

R. L. S.

My wife begs your forgiveness; I believe for her silence.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

SARANAC LAKE [DECEMBER 1887].

MY DEAR COLVIN, - This goes to say that we are all fit, and the  place is very bleak and wintry,
and up to now has shown no such  charms of climate as Davos, but is a place where men eat and
where  the cattarh, catarrh (cattarrh, or cattarrhh) appears to be  unknown.  I walk in my
verandy in the snaw, sir, looking down over  one of those dabbled wintry landscapes that are
(to be frank) so  chilly to the human bosom, and up at a grey, English - nay,  MEHERCLE, Scottish
- heaven; and I think it pretty bleak; and the  wind swoops at me round the corner, like a
lion, and fluffs the  snow in my face; and I could aspire to be elsewhere; but yet I do  not
catch cold, and yet, when I come in, I eat.  So that hitherto  Saranac, if not deliriously
delectable, has not been a failure;  nay, from the mere point of view of the wicked body, it
has proved  a success.  But I wish I could still get to the woods; alas, NOUS  N'IRONS PLUS
AU BOIS is my poor song; the paths are buried, the  dingles drifted full, a little walk is
grown a long one; till  spring comes, I fear the burthen will hold good.

I get along with my papers for SCRIBNER not fast, nor so far  specially well; only this last,
the fourth one (which makes a third  part of my whole task), I do believe is pulled off after
a fashion.  The other three papers, I fear,  bear many traces of effort, and the ungenuine
inspiration of an  income at so much per essay, and the honest desire of the incomer  to give
good measure for his money.  Well, I did my damndest  anyway.

We have been reading H. James's RODERICK HUDSON, which I eagerly  press you to get at once:
it is a book of a high order - the last  volume in particular.  I wish Meredith would read
it.  It took my  breath away.

I am at the seventh book of the AENEID, and quite amazed at its  merits (also very often floored
by its difficulties).  The Circe  passage at the beginning, and the sublime business of Amata
with  the simile of the boy's top - O Lord, what a happy thought! - have  specially delighted
me. - I am, dear sir, your respected friend,

JOHN GREGG GILLSON, J.P., M.R.I.A., etc

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[SARANAC, DECEMBER 24, 1887.]

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Thank you for your explanations.  I have done no  more Virgil since I finished
the seventh book, for I have, first  been eaten up with Taine, and next have fallen head over
heels into  a new tale, THE MASTER OF BALLANTRAE.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE:

(1) My old Lord Durrisdeer. (2) The Master of Ballantrae, AND (3) Henry Durie, HIS SONS. (4)
Clementina, ENGAGED TO THE FIRST, MARRIED TO THE SECOND. (5) Ephraim Mackellar, LAND STEWARD
AT DURRISDEER AND NARRATOR OF  THE MOST OF THE BOOK. (6) Francis Burke, Chevalier de St. Louis,
ONE OF PRINCE CHARLIE'S  IRISHMEN AND NARRATOR OF THE REST.

Besides these, many instant figures, most of them dumb or nearly  so:  Jessie Brown the whore,
Captain Crail, Captain MacCombie, our  old friend Alan Breck, our old friend Riach (both only
for an  instant), Teach the pirate (vulgarly Blackbeard), John Paul and  Macconochie, servants
at Durrisdeer.  The date is from 1745 to '65  (about).  The scene, near Kirkcudbright, in the
States, and for a  little moment in the French East Indies.  Here  come my visitors - and have
now gone, or the first relay of them;  and I hope no more may come.  For mark you, sir, this
is our 'day'  - Saturday, as ever was, and here we sit, my mother and I, before a  large wood
fire and await the enemy with the most steadfast  courage; and without snow and greyness: 
and the woman Fanny in New  York for her health, which is far from good; and the lad Lloyd
at  the inn in the village because he has a cold; and the handmaid  Valentine abroad in a sleigh
upon her messages; and to-morrow  Christmas and no mistake.  Such is human life:  LA CARRIERE
HUMAINE.  I will enclose, if I remember, the required autograph.

I will do better, put it on the back of this page.  Love to all,  and mostly, my very dear
Colvin, to yourself.  For whatever I say  or do, or don't say or do, you may be very sure I
am, - Yours  always affectionately,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MISS ADELAIDE BOODLE

SARANAC LAKE, ADIRONDACKS, N.Y., U.S.A., CHRISTMAS 1887.

MY DEAR MISS BOODLE, - And a very good Christmas to you all; and  better fortune; and if worse,
the more courage to support it -  which I think is the kinder wish in all human affairs.  Somewhile
-  I fear a good while - after this, you should receive our Christmas  gift; we have no tact
and no taste, only a welcome and (often)  tonic brutality; and I dare say the present, even
after my friend  Baxter has acted on and reviewed my hints, may prove a White  Elephant.  That
is why I dread presents.  And therefore pray  understand if any element of that hamper prove
unwelcome, IT IS TO  BE EXCHANGED.  I will not sit down under the name of a giver of  White
Elephants.  I never had any elephant but one, and his  initials were R. L. S.; and he trod
on my foot at a very early age.   But this is a fable, and not in the least to the point: 
which is  that if, for once in my life, I have wished to make things nicer  for anybody but
the Elephant (see fable), do not suffer me to have  made them ineffably more embarrassing,
and exchange - ruthlessly  exchange! 

For my part, I am the most cockered up of any mortal being; and one  of the healthiest, or
thereabout, at some modest distance from the  bull's eye.  I am condemned to write twelve articles
in SCRIBNER'S  MAGAZINE for the love of gain; I think I had better send you them;  what is
far more to the purpose, I am on the jump with a new story  which has bewitched me - I doubt
it may bewitch no one else.  It is  called THE MASTER OF BALLANTRAE - pronounce Ballan-tray.
If it is  not good, well, mine will be the fault; for I believe it is a good  tale.

The greetings of the season to you, and your mother, and your  sisters.  My wife heartily joins.
- And I am, yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - You will think me an illiterate dog:  I am, for the first  time, reading ROBERTSON'S
SERMONS.  I do not know how to express  how much I think of them.  If by any chance you should
be as  illiterate as I, and not know them, it is worth while curing the  defect.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

SARANAC LAKE, JANUARY '88.

DEAR CHARLES, - You are the flower of Doers. . . . Will my doer  collaborate thus much in my
new novel?  In the year 1794 or 5, Mr.  Ephraim Mackellar, A.M., late. steward on the Durrisdeer
estates,  completed a set of memoranda (as long as a novel) with regard to  the death of the
(then) late Lord Durrisdeer, and as to that of his  attainted elder brother, called by the
family courtesy title the  Master of Ballantrae.  These he placed in the hands of John  Macbrair.
W.S., the family agent, on the understanding they were  to be sealed until 1862, when a century
would have elapsed since  the affair in the wilderness (my lord's death).  You succeeded Mr.
Macbrair's firm; the Durrisdeers are extinct; and last year, in an  old green box, you found
these papers with Macbrair's indorsation.   It is that indorsation of which I want a copy;
you may remember,  when you gave me the papers, I neglected to take that, and I am  sure you
are a man too careful of antiquities to have let it fall  aside.  I shall have a little introduction
descriptive of my visit  to Edinburgh, arrival there, denner with yoursel', and first  reading
of the papers in your smoking-room:  all of which, of  course, you well remember. - Ever yours
affectionately,

R. L S.

Your name is my friend Mr. Johnstone Thomson, W.S.!!!

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

SARANAC, WINTER 1887-8.

DEAR MR. BURLINGAME, - I am keeping the sermon to see if I can't  add another.  Meanwhile,
I will send you very soon a different  paper which may take its place.  Possibly some of these
days soon I  may get together a talk on things current, which should go in (if  possible) earlier
than either.  I am now less nervous about these  papers; I believe I can do the trick without
great strain, though  the terror that breathed on my back in the beginning is not yet  forgotten.

THE MASTER OF BALLANTRAE I have had to leave aside, as I was quite  worked out.  But in about
a week I hope to try back and send you  the first four numbers:  these are all drafted, it
is only the  revision that has broken me down, as it is often the hardest work.   These four
I propose you should set up for me at once, and we'll  copyright 'em in a pamphlet.  I will
tell you the names of the BONA  FIDE purchasers in England.

The numbers will run from twenty to thirty pages of my manuscript.   You can give me that much,
can you not?  It is a howling good tale  - at least these first four numbers are; the end is
a trifle more  fantastic, but 'tis all picturesque.

Don't trouble about any more French books; I am on another scent,  you see, just now.  Only
the FRENCH IN HINDUSTAN I await with  impatience, as that is for BALLANTRAE.  The scene of
that romance  is Scotland - the States - Scotland - India - Scotland - and the  States again;
so it jumps like a flea.  I have enough about the  States now, and very much obliged I am;
yet if Drake's TRAGEDIES OF  the WILDERNESS is (as I gather) a collection of originals, I should
like to purchase it.  If it is a picturesque vulgarisation, I do  not wish to look it in the
face.  Purchase, I say; for I think it  would be well to have some such collection by me with
a view to  fresh works. - Yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - If you think of having the MASTER illustrated, I suggest  that Hole would be very well
up to the Scottish, which is the  larger part.  If you have it done here, tell your artist
to look at  the hall of Craigievar in Billing's BARONIAL AND ECCLESIASTICAL  ANTIQUITIES, and
he will get a broad hint for the hall at  Durrisdeer:  it is, I think, the chimney of Craigievar
and the roof  of Pinkie, and perhaps a little more of Pinkie altogether; but I  should have
to see the book myself to be sure.  Hole would be  invaluable for this.  I dare say if you
had it illustrated, you  could let me have one or two for the English edition.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO WILLIAM ARCHER

[SARANAC, WINTER 1887-8.]

MY DEAR ARCHER, - What am I to say?  I have read your friend's book  with singular relish.
If he has written any other, I beg you will  let me see it; and if he has not, I beg him to
lose no time in  supplying the deficiency.  It is full of promise; but I should like  to know
his age.  There are things in it that are very clever, to  which I attach small importance;
it is the shape of the age.  And  there are passages, particularly the rally in presence of
the Zulu  king, that show genuine and remarkable narrative talent - a talent  that few will
have the wit to understand, a talent of strength,  spirit, capacity, sufficient vision, and
sufficient self-sacrifice,  which last is the chief point in a narrator.

As a whole, it is (of course) a fever dream of the most feverish.   Over Bashville the footman
I howled with derision and delight; I  dote on Bashville - I could read of him for ever; DE
BASHVILLE JE  SUIS LE FERVENT - there is only one Bashville, and I am his devoted  slave; BASHVILLE
EST MAGNIFIQUE, MAIS IL N'EST GUERE POSSIBLE.  He  is the note of the book.  It is all mad,
mad and deliriously  delightful; the author has a taste in chivalry like Walter Scott's  or
Dumas', and then he daubs in little bits of socialism; he soars  away on the wings of the romantic
griffon - even the griffon, as he  cleaves air, shouting with laughter at the nature of the
quest -  and I believe in his heart he thinks he is labouring in a quarry of  solid granite
realism.

It is this that makes me - the most hardened adviser now extant -  stand back and hold my peace.
If Mr. Shaw is below five-and- twenty, let him go his path; if he is thirty, he had best be
told  that he is a romantic, and pursue romance with his eyes open; - or  perhaps he knows
it; - God knows! - my brain is softened.

It is HORRID FUN.  All I ask is more of it.  Thank you for the  pleasure you gave us, and tell
me more of the inimitable author.

(I say, Archer, my God, what women!) - Yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO WILLIAM ARCHER

SARANAC, FEBRUARY 1888.

MY DEAR ARCHER, - Pretty sick in bed; but necessary to protest and  continue your education.

Why was Jenkin an amateur in my eyes?  You think because not  amusing (I think he often was
amusing).  The reason is this:  I  never, or almost never, saw two pages of his work that I
could not  have put in one without the smallest loss of material.  That is the  only test I
know of writing.  If there is anywhere a thing said in  two sentences that could have been
as clearly and as engagingly and  as forcibly said in one, then it's amateur work.  Then you
will  bring me up with old Dumas.  Nay, the object of a story is to be  long, to fill up hours;
the story-teller's art of writing is to  water out by continual invention, historical and technical,
and yet  not seem to water; seem on the other hand to practise that same wit  of conspicuous
and declaratory condensation which is the proper art  of writing.  That is one thing in which
my stories fail:  I am  always cutting the flesh off their bones.

I would rise from the dead to preach!

Hope all well.  I think my wife better, but she's not allowed to  write; and this (only wrung
from me by desire to Boss and Parsonise  and Dominate, strong in sickness) is my first letter
for days, and  will likely be my last for many more.  Not blame my wife for her  silence: 
doctor's orders.  All much interested by your last, and  fragment from brother, and anecdotes
of Tomarcher. - The sick but  still Moral

R. L. S.

Tell Shaw to hurry up:  I want another.

Letter:  TO WILLIAM ARCHER

[SARANAC, SPRING 1888?]

MY DEAR ARCHER, - It happened thus.  I came forth from that  performance in a breathing heat
of indignation.  (Mind, at this  distance of time and with my increased knowledge, I admit
there is  a problem in the piece; but I saw none then, except a problem in  brutality; and
I still consider the problem in that case not  established.)  On my way down the FRANCAIS stairs,
I trod on an old  gentleman's toes, whereupon with that suavity that so well becomes  me, I
turned about to apologise, and on the instant, repenting me  of that intention, stopped the
apology midway, and added something  in French to this effect:  No, you are one of the LACHES
who have  been applauding that piece.  I retract my apology.  Said the old  Frenchman, laying
his hand on my arm, and with a smile that was  truly heavenly in temperance, irony, good-nature,
and knowledge of  the world, 'Ah, monsieur, vous etes bien jeune!' - Yours very  truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

SARANAC [FEBRUARY 1888].

DEAR MR. BURLINGAME, - Will you send me (from the library) some of  the works of my dear old
G. P. R. James.  With the following  especially I desire to make or to renew acquaintance:
THE  SONGSTER, THE GIPSY, THE CONVICT, THE STEPMOTHER, THE GENTLEMAN OF  THE OLD SCHOOL, THE
ROBBER.

EXCUSEZ DU PEU.

This sudden return to an ancient favourite hangs upon an accident.   The 'Franklin County Library'
contains two works of his, THE  CAVALIER and MORLEY ERNSTEIN.  I read the first with indescribable
amusement - it was worse than I had feared, and yet somehow  engaging; the second (to my surprise)
was better than I had dared  to hope:  a good honest, dull, interesting tale, with a genuine
old-fashioned talent in the invention when not strained; and a  genuine old-fashioned feeling
for the English language.  This  experience awoke appetite, and you see I have taken steps
to stay  it.  Of course then don't use it.  Dear Man,  I write these to please you, not myself,
and you know a main sight  better than I do what is good.  In that case, however, I enclose
another paper, and return the corrected proof of PULVIS ET UMBRA,  so that we may be afloat.

2.  I want to say a word as to the MASTER.  (THE MASTER OF  BALLANTRAE shall be the name by
all means.)  If you like and want  it, I leave it to you to make an offer.  You may remember
I thought  the offer you made when I was still in England too small; by which  I did not at
all mean, I thought it less than it was worth, but too  little to tempt me to undergo the disagreeables
of serial  publication.  This tale (if you want it) you are to have; for it is  the least I
can do for you; and you are to observe that the sum you  pay me for my articles going far to
meet my wants, I am quite open  to be satisfied with less than formerly.  I tell you I do dislike
this battle of the dollars.  I feel sure you all pay too much here  in America; and I beg you
not to spoil me any more.  For I am  getting spoiled:  I do not want wealth, and I feel these
big sums  demoralise me.

My wife came here pretty ill; she had a dreadful bad night; to-day  she is better.  But now
Valentine is ill; and Lloyd and I have got  breakfast, and my hand somewhat shakes after washing
dishes. -  Yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - Please order me the EVENING POST for two months.  My  subscription is run out.  The
MUTINY and EDWARDES to hand.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[SARANAC, MARCH 1888.]

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Fanny has been very unwell.  She is not long  home, has been ill again since
her return, but is now better again  to a degree.  You must not blame her for not writing,
as she is not  allowed to write at all, not even a letter.  To add to our  misfortunes, Valentine
is quite ill and in bed.  You cannot fancy how  sad a climate it is.  When the thermometer
stays all day below 10  degrees, it is really cold; and when the wind blows, O commend me 
to the result.  Pleasure in life is all delete; there is no red  spot left, fires do not radiate,
you burn your hands all the time  on what seem to be cold stones.  It is odd, zero is like
summer  heat to us now; and we like, when the thermometer outside is really  low, a room at
about 48 degrees:  60 degrees we find oppressive.   Yet the natives keep their holes at 90
degrees or even 100 degrees.

This was interrupted days ago by household labours.  Since then I  have had and (I tremble
to write it, but it does seem as if I had)  beaten off an influenza.  The cold is exquisite.
Valentine still  in bed.  The proofs of the first part of the MASTER OF BALLANTRAE  begin to
come in; soon you shall have it in the pamphlet form; and  I hope you will like it.  The second
part will not be near so good;  but there - we can but do as it'll do with us.  I have every
reason  to believe this winter has done me real good, so far as it has  gone; and if I carry
out my scheme for next winter, and succeeding  years, I should end by being a tower of strength.
I want you to  save a good holiday for next winter; I hope we shall be able to  help you to
some larks.  Is there any Greek Isle you would like to  explore? or any creek in Asia Minor?
- Yours ever affectionately,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO THE REV. DR. CHARTERIS

[SARANAC LAKE, WINTER 1887-1888.]

MY DEAR DR. CHARTERIS, - I have asked Douglas and Foulis to send  you my last volume, so that
you may possess my little paper on my  father in a permanent shape; not for what that is worth,
but as a  tribute of respect to one whom my father regarded with such love,  esteem, and affection.
Besides, as you will see, I have brought  you under contribution, and I have still to thank
you for your  letter to my mother; so more than kind; in much, so just.  It is my  hope, when
time and health permit, to do something more definite  for my father's memory.  You are one
of the very few who can (if  you will) help me.  Pray believe that I lay on you no obligation;
I  know too well, you may believe me, how difficult it is to put even  two sincere lines upon
paper, where all, too, is to order.  I was vexed at your account of my admired Meredith:  I
wish I  could go and see him; as it is I will try to write.  I read with  indescribable admiration
your EMERSON.  I begin to long for the day  when these portraits of yours shall be collected:
do put me in.   But Emerson is a higher flight.  Have you a TOURGUENEFF?  You have  told me
many interesting things of him, and I seem to see them  written, and forming a graceful and
BILDEND sketch.  My novel is a  tragedy; four parts out of six or seven are written, and gone
to  Burlingame.  Five parts of it are sound, human tragedy; the last  one or two, I regret
to say, not so soundly designed; I almost  hesitate to write them; they are very picturesque,
but they are  fantastic; they shame, perhaps degrade, the beginning.  I wish I  knew; that
was how the tale came to me however.  I got the  situation; it was an old taste of mine:  The
older brother goes out  in the '45, the younger stays; the younger, of course, gets title 
and estate and marries the bride designate of the elder - a family  match, but he (the younger)
had always loved her, and she had  really loved the elder.  Do you see the situation?  Then
the devil  and Saranac suggested this DENOUEMENT, and I joined the two ends in  a day or two
of constant feverish thought, and began to write.  And  now - I wonder if I have not gone too
far with the fantastic?  The  elder brother is an INCUBUS:  supposed to be killed at Culloden,
he  turns up again and bleeds the family of money; on that stopping he  comes and lives with
them, whence flows the real tragedy, the  nocturnal duel of the brothers (very naturally, and
indeed, I  think, inevitably arising), and second supposed death of the elder.   Husband and
wife now really make up, and then the cloven hoof  appears.  For the third supposed death and
the manner of the third  reappearance is steep; steep, sir.  It is even very steep, and I 
fear it shames the honest stuff so far; but then it is highly  pictorial, and it leads up to
the death of the elder brother at the  hands of the younger in a perfectly cold-blooded murder,
of which I  wish (and mean) the reader to approve.  You see how daring is the  design.  There
are really but six characters, and one of these  episodic, and yet it covers eighteen years,
and will be, I imagine,  the longest of my works. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

READ GOSSE'S RALEIGH.  First-rate. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO THE REV. DR. CHARTERIS

SARANAC LAKE, ADIRONDACKS, NEW YORK, U.S.A., SPRING 1888.

MY DEAR DR. CHARTERIS, - The funeral letter, your notes, and many  other things, are reserved
for a book, MEMORIALS OF A SCOTTISH  FAMILY, if ever I can find time and opportunity.  I wish
I could  throw off all else and sit down to it to-day.  Yes, my father was a  'distinctly religious
man,' but not a pious.  The distinction  painfully and pleasurably recalls old conflicts; it
used to be my  great gun - and you, who suffered for the whole Church, know how  needful it
was to have some reserve artillery!  His sentiments were  tragic; he was a tragic thinker.
Now, granted that life is tragic  to the marrow, it seems the proper function of religion to
make us  accept and serve in that tragedy, as officers in that other and  comparable one of
war.  Service is the word, active service, in the  military sense; and the religious man -
I beg pardon, the pious man  - is he who has a military joy in duty - not he who weeps over
the  wounded.  We can do no more than try to do our best.  Really, I am  the grandson of the
manse - I preach you a kind of sermon.  Box the  brat's ears!

My mother - to pass to matters more within my competence - finely  enjoys herself.  The new
country, some new friends we have made,  the interesting experiment of this climate-which (at
least) is  tragic - all have done her good.  I have myself passed a better  winter than for
years, and now that it is nearly over have some  diffident hopes of doing well in the summer
and 'eating a little  more air' than usual.

I thank you for the trouble you are taking, and my mother joins  with me in kindest regards
to yourself and Mrs. Charteris. - Yours  very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO S. R. CROCKETT

[SARANAC LAKE, SPRING 1888.]

DEAR MINISTER OF THE FREE KIRK AT PENICUIK, - For O, man, I cannae  read your name! - That
I have been so long in answering your  delightful letter sits on my conscience badly.  The
fact is I let  my correspondence accumulate until I am going to leave a place; and  then I
pitch in, overhaul the pile, and my cries of penitence might  be heard a mile about.  Yesterday
I despatched thirty-five belated  letters:  conceive the state of my conscience, above all
as the  Sins of Omission (see boyhood's guide, the Shorter Catechism) are  in my view the only
serious ones; I call it my view, but it cannot  have escaped you that it was also Christ's.
However, all that is  not to the purpose, which is to thank you for the sincere pleasure  afforded
by your charming letter.  I get a good few such; how few  that please me at all, you would
be surprised to learn - or have a  singularly just idea of the dulness of our race; how few
that  please me as yours did, I can tell you in one word - NONE.  I am no  great kirkgoer,
for many reasons - and the sermon's one of them,  and the first prayer another, but the chief
and effectual reason is  the stuffiness.  I am no great kirkgoer, says I, but when I read 
yon letter of yours, I thought I would like to sit under ye.  And  then I saw ye were to send
me a bit buik, and says I, I'll wait for  the bit buik, and then I'll mebbe can read the man's
name, and  anyway I'll can kill twa birds wi' ae stane.  And, man! the buik  was ne'er heard
tell o'!

That fact is an adminicle of excuse for my delay.

And now, dear minister of the illegible name, thanks to you, and  greeting to your wife, and
may you have good guidance in your  difficult labours, and a blessing on your life.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

(No just so young sae young's he was, though - I'm awfae near forty, man.)

Address c/o CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, 743 BROADWAY, NEW YORK.

Don't put 'N.B.' in your paper:  put SCOTLAND, and be done with it.   Alas, that I should be
thus stabbed in the home of my friends!  The  name of my native land is not NORTH BRITAIN,
whatever may be the  name of yours.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MISS FERRIER

[SARANAC LAKE, APRIL 1888.]

MY DEAREST COGGIE, - I wish I could find the letter I began to you  some time ago when I was
ill; but I can't and I don't believe there  was much in it anyway.  We have all behaved like
pigs and beasts  and barn-door poultry to you; but I have been sunk in work, and the  lad is
lazy and blind and has been working too; and as for Fanny,  she has been (and still is) really
unwell.  I had a mean hope you  might perhaps write again before I got up steam:  I could not
have  been more ashamed of myself than I am, and I should have had  another laugh.

They always say I cannot give news in my letters:  I shall shake  off that reproach.  On Monday,
if she is well enough, Fanny leaves  for California to see her friends; it is rather an anxiety
to let  her go alone; but the doctor simply forbids it in my case, and she  is better anywhere
than here - a bleak, blackguard, beggarly  climate, of which I can say no good except that
it suits me and  some others of the same or similar persuasions whom (by all rights)  it ought
to kill.  It is a form of Arctic St. Andrews, I should  imagine; and the miseries of forty
degrees below zero, with a high  wind, have to be felt to be appreciated.  The greyness of
the  heavens here is a circumstance eminently revolting to the soul; I  have near forgot the
aspect of the sun - I doubt if this be news;  it is certainly no news to us.  My mother suffers
a little from the  inclemency of the place, but less on the whole than would be  imagined.
Among other wild schemes, we have been projecting yacht  voyages; and I beg to inform you that
Cogia Hassan was cast for the  part of passenger.  They may come off! - Again this is not news.
The lad?  Well, the lad wrote a tale this winter, which appeared to  me so funny that I have
taken it in hand, and some of these days  you will receive a copy of a work entitled 'A GAME
OF BLUFF, by  Lloyd Osbourne and Robert Louis Stevenson.'

Otherwise he (the lad) is much as usual.  There remains, I believe,  to be considered only
R. L. S., the house-bond, prop, pillar,  bread-winner, and bully of the establishment.  Well,
I do think him  much better; he is making piles of money; the hope of being able to  hire a
yacht ere long dances before his eyes; otherwise he is not  in very high spirits at this particular
moment, though compared  with last year at Bournemouth an angel of joy.

And now is this news, Cogia, or is it not?  It all depends upon the  point of view, and I call
it news.  The devil of it is that I can  think of nothing else, except to send you all our
loves, and to  wish exceedingly you were here to cheer us all up.  But we'll see  about that
on board the yacht. - Your affectionate friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[SARANAC LAKE], APRIL 9TH!! 1888

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I have been long without writing to you, but am  not to blame, I had some
little annoyances quite for a private eye,  but they ran me so hard that I could not write
without lugging them  in, which (for several reasons) I did not choose to do.  Fanny is  off
to San Francisco, and next week I myself flit to New York:   address Scribner's.  Where we
shall go I know not, nor (I was going  to say) care; so bald and bad is my frame of mind. 
Do you know our  - ahem! - fellow clubman, Colonel Majendie?  I had such an  interesting letter
from him.  Did you see my sermon?  It has evoked  the worst feeling:  I fear people don't care
for the truth, or else  I don't tell it.  Suffer me to wander without purpose.  I have sent
off twenty letters to-day, and begun and stuck at a twenty-first,  and taken a copy of one
which was on business, and corrected  several galleys of proof, and sorted about a bushel of
old letters;  so if any one has a right to be romantically stupid it is I - and I  am.  Really
deeply stupid, and at that stage when in old days I  used to pour out words without any meaning
whatever and with my  mind taking no part in the performance.  I suspect that is now the  case.
I am reading with extraordinary pleasure the life of Lord  Lawrence:  Lloyd and I have a mutiny
novel -

(NEXT MORNING, AFTER TWELVE OTHER LETTERS) - mutiny novel on hand -  a tremendous work - so
we are all at Indian books.  The idea of the  novel is Lloyd's:  I call it a novel.  'Tis a
tragic romance, of  the most tragic sort:  I believe the end will be almost too much  for human
endurance - when the hero is thrown to the ground with  one of his own (Sepoy) soldier's knees
upon his chest, and the  cries begin in the Beebeeghar.  O truly, you know it is a howler!
The whole last part is - well the difficulty is that, short of  resuscitating Shakespeare,
I don't know who is to write it.

I still keep wonderful.  I am a great performer before the Lord on  the penny whistle.  Dear
sir, sincerely yours,

ANDREW JACKSON.

Letter:  TO MISS ADELAIDE BOODLE

[SARANAC LAKE, APRIL 1888.] ADDRESS C/O MESSRS. SCRIBNER'S SONS,  743 BROADWAY, N.Y.

MY DEAR GAMEKEEPER, - Your p. c. (proving you a good student of  Micawber) has just arrived,
and it paves the way to something I am  anxious to say.  And it came over me with special pain
that  perhaps this article (which I was at the pains to send to her)  might give dismalness
to my GAMEKEEPER AT HOME.

Pray excuse a desponding author for this apology.  My wife is away  off to the uttermost parts
of the States, all by herself.  I shall  be off, I hope, in a week; but where?  Ah! that I
know not.  I keep  wonderful, and my wife a little better, and the lad flourishing.   We now
perform duets on two D tin whistles; it is no joke to make  the bass; I think I must really
send you one, which I wish you  would correct . . . I may be said to live for these instrumental
labours now, but I have always some childishness on hand. - I am,  dear Gamekeeper, your indulgent
but intemperate Squire,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

UNION HOUSE, MANASQUAN, N.J., BUT ADDRESS TO SCRIBNER'S, 11TH MAY  1888.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - I have found a yacht, and we are going the full  pitch for seven months.
If I cannot get my health back (more or  less), 'tis madness; but, of course, there is the
hope, and I will  play big. . . . If this business fails to set me up, well, 2000  pounds is
gone, and I know I can't get better.  We sail from San  Francisco, June 15th, for the South
Seas in the yacht CASCO. - With  a million thanks for all your dear friendliness, ever yours
affectionately,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO HENRY JAMES

MANASQUAN (AHEM!), NEW JERSEY, MAY 28TH, 1888.

MY DEAR JAMES, - With what a torrent it has come at last!  Up to  now, what I like best is
the first number of a LONDON LIFE.  You  have never done anything better, and I don't know
if perhaps you  have ever done anything so good as the girl's outburst:  tip-top.   I have
been preaching your later works in your native land.  I had  to present the Beltraffio volume
to Low, and it has brought him to  his knees; he was AMAZED at the first part of Georgina's
Reasons,  although (like me) not so well satisfied with Part II.  It is  annoying to find the
American public as stupid as the English, but  they will waken up in time:  I wonder what they
will think of TWO  NATIONS? . .

This, dear James, is a valedictory.  On June 15th the schooner  yacht CASCO will (weather and
a jealous providence permitting)  steam through the Golden Gates for Honolulu, Tahiti, the
Galapagos,  Guayaquil, and - I hope NOT the bottom of the Pacific.  It will  contain your obedient
'umble servant and party.  It seems too good  to be true, and is a very good way of getting
through the green- sickness of maturity which, with all its accompanying ills, is now  declaring
itself in my mind and life.  They tell me it is not so  severe as that of youth; if I (and
the CASCO) are spared, I shall  tell you more exactly, as I am one of the few people in the
world  who do not forget their own lives.

Good-bye, then, my dear fellow, and please write us a word; we  expect to have three mails
in the next two months:  Honolulu,  Tahiti, and Guayaquil.  But letters will be forwarded from
Scribner's, if you hear nothing more definite directly.  In 3  (three) days I leave for San
Francisco. - Ever yours most  cordially,

R. L. S.

CHAPTER X - PACIFIC VOYAGES, JUNE 1888-NOVEMBER 1890

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

YACHT 'CASCO,' ANAHO BAY, NUKAHIVA, MARQUESAS ISLANDS [JULY 1888].

MY DEAR COLVIN, - From this somewhat (ahem) out of the way place, I  write to say how d'ye
do.  It is all a swindle:  I chose these  isles as having the most beastly population, and
they are far  better, and far more civilised than we.  I know one old chief Ko-o- amua, a great
cannibal in his day, who ate his enemies even as he  walked home from killing 'em, and he is
a perfect gentleman and  exceedingly amiable and simple-minded:  no fool, though.

The climate is delightful; and the harbour where we lie one of the  loveliest spots imaginable.
Yesterday evening we had near a score  natives on board; lovely parties.  We have a native
god; very rare  now.  Very rare and equally absurd to view.

This sort of work is not favourable to correspondence:  it takes me  all the little strength
I have to go about and see, and then come  home and note, the strangeness around us.  I shouldn't
wonder if  there came trouble here some day, all the same.  I could name a  nation that is
not beloved in certain islands - and it does not  know it!  Strange:  like ourselves, perhaps,
in India!  Love to all  and much to yourself.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

YACHT 'CASCO,' AT SEA, NEAR THE PAUMOTUS, 7 A.M., SEPTEMBER 6TH,  1888, WITH A DREADFUL PEN.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - Last night as I lay under my blanket in the  cockpit, courting sleep, I
had a comic seizure.  There was nothing  visible but the southern stars, and the steersman
there out by the  binnacle lamp; we were all looking forward to a most deplorable  landfall
on the morrow, praying God we should fetch a tuft of palms  which are to indicate the Dangerous
Archipelago; the night was as  warm as milk, and all of a sudden I had a vision of - Drummond
Street.  It came on me like a flash of lightning:  I simply  returned thither, and into the
past.  And when I remember all I  hoped and feared as I pickled about Rutherford's in the rain
and  the east wind; how I feared I should make a mere shipwreck, and yet  timidly hoped not;
how I feared I should never have a friend, far  less a wife, and yet passionately hoped I might;
how I hoped (if I  did not take to drink) I should possibly write one little book,  etc. etc.
And then now - what a change!  I feel somehow as if I  should like the incident set upon a
brass plate at the corner of  that dreary thoroughfare for all students to read, poor devils,
when their hearts are down.  And I felt I must write one word to  you.  Excuse me if I write
little:  when I am at sea, it gives me a  headache; when I am in port, I have my diary crying
'Give, give.'   I shall have a fine book of travels, I feel sure; and will tell you  more of
the South Seas after very few months than any other writer  has done - except Herman Melville
perhaps, who is a howling cheese.   Good luck to you, God bless you. - Your affectionate friend,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

FAKARAVA, LOW ARCHIPELAGO, SEPTEMBER 21ST, 1888.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Only a word.  Get out your big atlas, and imagine  a straight line from San
Francisco to Anaho, the N.E. corner of  Nukahiva, one of the Marquesas Islands; imagine three
weeks there:   imagine a day's sail on August 12th round the eastern end of the  island to
Tai-o-hae, the capital; imagine us there till August  22nd:  imagine us skirt the east side
of Ua-pu - perhaps Rona-Poa  on your atlas - and through the Bondelais straits to Taaka-uku
in  Hiva-Oa, where we arrive on the 23rd; imagine us there until  September 4th, when we sailed
for Fakarava, which we reached on the  9th, after a very difficult and dangerous passage among
these  isles.  Tuesday, we shall leave for Taiti, where I shall knock off  and do some necessary
work ashore.  It looks pretty bald in the  atlas; not in fact; nor I trust in the 130 odd pages
of diary which  I have just been looking up for these dates:  the interest, indeed,  has been
INCREDIBLE:  I did not dream there were such places or  such races.  My health has stood me
splendidly; I am in for hours  wading over the knees for shells; I have been five hours on
horseback:  I have been up pretty near all night waiting to see  where the CASCO would go ashore,
and with my diary all ready -  simply the most entertaining night of my life.  Withal I still
have  colds; I have one now, and feel pretty sick too; but not as at  home:  instead of being
in bed, for instance, I am at this moment  sitting snuffling and writing in an undershirt and
trousers; and as  for colour, hands, arms, feet, legs, and face, I am browner than  the berry:
only my trunk and the aristocratic spot on which I sit  retain the vile whiteness of the north.

Please give my news and kind love to Henley, Henry James, and any  whom you see of well-wishers.
Accept from me the very best of my  affection:  and believe me ever yours,

THE OLD MAN VIRULENT.

TAITI, OCTOBER 7TH, 1888.

Never having found a chance to send this off, I may add more of my  news.  My cold took a very
bad turn, and I am pretty much out of  sorts at this particular, living in a little bare one-twentieth-
furnished house, surrounded by mangoes, etc.  All the rest are  well, and I mean to be soon.
But these Taiti colds are very severe  and, to children, often fatal; so they were not the
thing for me.   Yesterday the brigantine came in from San Francisco, so we can get  our letters
off soon.  There are in Papeete at this moment, in a  little wooden house with grated verandahs,
two people who love you  very much, and one of them is

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

TAITI, AS EVER WAS, 6TH OCTOBER 1888.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - . . . You will receive a lot of mostly very bad  proofs of photographs:
the paper was so bad.  Please keep them  very private, as they are for the book.  We send them,
having  learned so dread a fear of the sea, that we wish to put our eggs in  different baskets.
We have been thrice within an ace of being  ashore:  we were lost (!) for about twelve hours
in the Low  Archipelago, but by God's blessing had quiet weather all the time;  and once, in
a squall, we cam' so near gaun heels ower hurdies,  that I really dinnae ken why we didnae
athegither.  Hence, as I  say, a great desire to put our eggs in different baskets,  particularly
on the Pacific (aw-haw-haw) Pacific Ocean.

You can have no idea what a mean time we have had, owing to  incidental beastlinesses, nor
what a glorious, owing to the  intrinsic interest of these isles.  I hope the book will be
a good  one; nor do I really very much doubt that - the stuff is so  curious; what I wonder
is, if the public will rise to it.  A copy  of my journal, or as much of it as is made, shall
go to you also;  it is, of course, quite imperfect, much being to be added and  corrected;
but O, for the eggs in the different baskets.

All the rest are well enough, and all have enjoyed the cruise so  far, in spite of its drawbacks.
We have had an awfae time in some  ways, Mr. Baxter; and if I wasnae sic a verra patient man
(when I  ken that I HAVE to be) there wad hae been a braw row; and ance if I  hadnae happened
to be on deck about three in the marnin', I THINK  there would have been MURDER done.  The
American Mairchant Marine  is a kent service; ye'll have heard its praise, I'm thinkin'; an'
if ye never did, ye can get TWA YEARS BEFORE THE MAST, by Dana,  whaur forbye a great deal
o' pleisure, ye'll get a' the needcessary  information.

DEAR GIVER, - I am at a loss to conceive your object in giving me  to a person so locomotory
as my proprietor.  The number of thousand  miles that I have travelled, the strange bed-fellows
with which I  have been made acquainted, I lack the requisite literary talent to  make clear
to your imagination.  I speak of bed-fellows; pocket- fellows would be a more exact expression,
for the place of my abode  is in my master's righthand trouser-pocket; and there, as he waded
on the resounding beaches of Nukahiva, or in the shallow tepid  water on the reef of Fakarava,
I have been overwhelmed by and  buried among all manner of abominable South Sea shells, beautiful
enough in their way, I make no doubt, but singular company for any  self-respecting paper-cutter.
He, my master - or as I more justly  call him, my bearer; for although I occasionally serve
him, does  not he serve me daily and all day long, carrying me like an African  potentate on
my subject's legs? - HE is delighted with these isles,  and this climate, and these savages,
and a variety of other things.   He now blows a flageolet with singular effects:  sometimes
the poor  thing appears stifled with shame, sometimes it screams with agony;  he pursues his
career with truculent insensibility.  Health appears  to reign in the party.  I was very nearly
sunk in a squall.  I am  sorry I ever left England, for here there are no books to be had,
and without books there is no stable situation for, dear Giver,  your affectionate

WOODEN PAPER-CUTTER.

A neighbouring pair of scissors snips a kiss in your direction.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

TAITI, OCTOBER 16TH, 1888.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - The cruiser for San Francisco departs to-morrow  morning bearing you some
kind of a scratch.  This much more  important packet will travel by way of Auckland.  It contains
a  ballant; and I think a better ballant than I expected ever to do.   I can imagine how you
will wag your pow over it; and how ragged you  will find it, etc., but has it not spirit all
the same? and though  the verse is not all your fancy painted it, has it not some life?   And
surely, as narrative, the thing has considerable merit!  Read  it, get a typewritten copy taken,
and send me that and your opinion  to the Sandwiches.  I know I am only courting the most excruciating
mortification; but the real cause of my sending the thing is that I  could bear to go down
myself, but not to have much MS. go down with  me.  To say truth, we are through the most dangerous;
but it has  left in all minds a strong sense of insecurity, and we are all for  putting eggs
in various baskets.

We leave here soon, bound for Uahiva, Reiatea, Bora-Bora, and the  Sandwiches.

O, how my spirit languishes To step ashore on the Sanguishes; For there my letters wait, There
shall I know my fate. O, how my spirit languidges To step ashore on the Sanguidges.

18TH. - I think we shall leave here if all is well on Monday.  I am  quite recovered, astonishingly
recovered. It must be owned these  climates and this voyage have given me more strength than
I could  have thought possible.  And yet the sea is a terrible place,  stupefying to the mind
and poisonous to the temper, the sea, the  motion, the lack of space, the cruel publicity,
the villainous  tinned foods, the sailors, the captain, the passengers - but you  are amply
repaid when you sight an island, and drop anchor in a new  world.  Much trouble has attended
this trip, but I must confess  more pleasure.  Nor should I ever complain, as in the last few
weeks, with the curing of my illness indeed, as if that were the  bursting of an abscess, the
cloud has risen from my spirits and to  some degree from my temper.  Do you know what they
called the CASCO  at Fakarava?  The SILVER SHIP.  Is that not pretty?  Pray tell Mrs.  Jenkin,
DIE SILBERNE FRAU, as I only learned it since I wrote her.   I think of calling the book by
that name:  THE CRUISE OF THE SILVER  SHIP - so there will be one poetic page at least - the
title.  At  the Sandwiches we shall say farewell to the S. S. with mingled  feelings.  She
is a lovely creature:  the most beautiful thing at  this moment in Taiti.

Well, I will take another sheet, though I know I have nothing to  say.  You would think I was
bursting:  but the voyage is all stored  up for the book, which is to pay for it, we fondly
hope; and the  troubles of the time are not worth telling; and our news is little.

Here I conclude (Oct. 24th, I think), for we are now stored, and  the Blue Peter metaphorically
flies.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO WILLIAM AND THOMAS ARCHER

TAITI, OCTOBER 17TH, 1888.

DEAR ARCHER, - Though quite unable to write letters, I nobly send  you a line signifying nothing.
The voyage has agreed well with  all; it has had its pains, and its extraordinary pleasures;
nothing  in the world can equal the excitement of the first time you cast  anchor in some bay
of a tropical island, and the boats begin to  surround you, and the tattooed people swarm aboard.
Tell  Tomarcher, with my respex, that hide-and-seek is not equal to it;  no, nor hidee-in-the-dark;
which, for the matter of that, is a game  for the unskilful:  the artist prefers daylight,
a good-sized  garden, some shrubbery, an open paddock, and - come on, Macduff.

TOMARCHER, I am now a distinguished litterytour, but that was not  the real bent of my genius.
I was the best player of hide-and-seek  going; not a good runner, I was up to every shift and
dodge, I  could jink very well, I could crawl without any noise through  leaves, I could hide
under a carrot plant, it used to be my  favourite boast that I always WALKED into the den.
You may care to  hear, Tomarcher, about the children in these parts; their parents  obey them,
they do not obey their parents; and I am sorry to tell  you (for I dare say you are already
thinking the idea a good one)  that it does not pay one halfpenny.  There are three sorts of
civilisation, Tomarcher:  the real old-fashioned one, in which  children either had to find
out how to please their dear papas, or  their dear papas cut their heads off.  This style did
very well,  but is now out of fashion.  Then the modern European style:  in  which children
have to behave reasonably well, and go to school and  say their prayers, or their dear papas
WILL KNOW THE REASON WHY.   This does fairly well.  Then there is the South Sea Island plan,
which does not do one bit.  The children beat their parents here;  it does not make their parents
any better; so do not try it.

Dear Tomarcher, I have forgotten the address of your new house, but  will send this to one
of your papa's publishers.  Remember us all  to all of you, and believe me, yours respectably,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

TAUTIRA (THE GARDEN OF THE WORLD), OTHERWISE CALLED HANS-CHRISTIAN- ANDERSEN-VILLE [NOVEMBER 1888].

MY DEAR CHARLES, - Whether I have a penny left in the wide world, I  know not, nor shall know,
till I get to Honolulu, where I  anticipate a devil of an awakening.  It will be from a mighty
pleasant dream at least:  Tautira being mere Heaven.  But suppose,  for the sake of argument,
any money to be left in the hands of my  painful doer, what is to be done with it?  Save us
from exile would  be the wise man's choice, I suppose; for the exile threatens to be  eternal.
But yet I am of opinion - in case there should be SOME  dibs in the hand of the P.D., I.E.
painful doer; because if there  be none, I shall take to my flageolet on the high-road, and
work  home the best way I can, having previously made away with my family  - I am of opinion
that if - and his are in the customary state, and  you are thinking of an offering, and there
should be still some  funds over, you would be a real good P.D. to put some in with yours 
and tak' the credit o't, like a wee man!  I know it's a beastly  thing to ask; but it, after
all, does no earthly harm, only that  much good.  And besides, like enough there's nothing
in the till,  and there is an end.  Yet I live here in the full lustre of  millions; it is
thought I am the richest son of man that has yet  been to Tautira:  I! - and I am secretly
eaten with the fear of  lying in pawn, perhaps for the remainder of my days, in San  Francisco.
As usual, my colds have much hashed my finances.

Do tell Henley I write this just after having dismissed Ori the  sub-chief, in whose house
I live, Mrs. Ori, and Pairai, their  adopted child, from the evening hour of music:  during
which I  Publickly (with a k) Blow on the Flageolet.  These are words of  truth.  Yesterday
I told Ori about W. E. H., counterfeited his  playing on the piano and the pipe, and succeeded
in sending the six  feet four there is of that sub-chief somewhat sadly to his bed;  feeling
that his was not the genuine article after all.  Ori is  exactly like a colonel in the Guards.
- I am, dear Charles, ever  yours affectionately,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TAUTIRA, 10TH NOVEMBER '88.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - Our mainmast is dry-rotten, and we are all to  the devil; I shall lie in
a debtor's jail.  Never mind, Tautira is  first chop.  I am so besotted that I shall put on
the back of this  my attempt at words to Wandering Willie; if you can conceive at all  the
difficulty, you will also conceive the vanity with which I  regard any kind of result; and
whatever mine is like, it has some  sense, and Burns's has none.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO J. A. SYMONDS

NOVEMBER 11TH 1888.

One November night, in the village of Tautira, we sat at the high  table in the hall of assembly,
hearing the natives sing.  It was  dark in the hall, and very warm; though at times the land
wind blew  a little shrewdly through the chinks, and at times, through the  larger openings,
we could see the moonlight on the lawn.  As the  songs arose in the rattling Tahitian chorus,
the chief translated  here and there a verse.  Farther on in the volume you shall read  the
songs themselves; and I am in hopes that not you only, but all  who can find a savour in the
ancient poetry of places, will read  them with some pleasure.  You are to conceive us, therefore,
in  strange circumstances and very pleasing; in a strange land and  climate, the most beautiful
on earth; surrounded by a foreign race  that all travellers have agreed to be the most engaging;
and taking  a double interest in two foreign arts.

We came forth again at last, in a cloudy moonlight, on the forest  lawn which is the street
of Tautira.  The Pacific roared outside  upon the reef.  Here and there one of the scattered
palm-built  lodges shone out under the shadow of the wood, the lamplight  bursting through
the crannies of the wall.  We went homeward  slowly, Ori a Ori carrying behind us the lantern
and the chairs,  properties with which we had just been enacting our part of the  distinguished
visitor.  It was one of those moments in which minds  not altogether churlish recall the names
and deplore the absence of  congenial friends; and it was your name that first rose upon our
lips.  'How Symonds would have enjoyed this evening!' said one, and  then another.  The word
caught in my mind; I went to bed, and it  was still there.  The glittering, frosty solitudes
in which your  days are cast arose before me:  I seemed to see you walking there  in the late
night, under the pine-trees and the stars; and I  received the image with something like remorse.

There is a modern attitude towards fortune; in this place I will  not use a graver name.  Staunchly
to withstand her buffets and to  enjoy with equanimity her favours was the code of the virtuous
of  old.  Our fathers, it should seem, wondered and doubted how they  had merited their misfortunes:
we, rather how we have deserved our  happiness.  And we stand often abashed and sometimes revolted,
at  those partialities of fate by which we profit most.  It was so with  me on that November
night:  I felt that our positions should be  changed.   It was you, dear Symonds, who should
have gone upon that  voyage and written this account.  With your rich stores of  knowledge,
you could have remarked and understood a thousand things  of interest and beauty that escaped
my ignorance; and the brilliant  colours of your style would have carried into a thousand sickrooms
the sea air and the strong sun of tropic islands.  It was otherwise  decreed.  But suffer me
at least to connect you, if only in name  and only in the fondness of imagination, with the
voyage of the  'SILVER SHIP.'

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

DEAR SYMONDS, - I send you this (November 11th), the morning of its  completion.  If I ever
write an account of this voyage, may I place  this letter at the beginning?  It represents
- I need not tell you,  for you too are an artist - a most genuine feeling, which kept me 
long awake last night; and though perhaps a little elaborate, I  think it a good piece of writing.
We are IN HEAVEN HERE.  Do not  forget

R. L. S.

Please keep this:  I have no perfect copy. TAUTIRA, ON THE PENINSULA OF TAHITI.

Letter:  TO THOMAS ARCHER

TAUTIRA, ISLAND OF TAHITI [NOVEMBER 1888].

DEAR TOMARCHER, - This is a pretty state of things! seven o'clock  and no word of breakfast!
And I was awake a good deal last night,  for it was full moon, and they had made a great fire
of cocoa-nut  husks down by the sea, and as we have no blinds or shutters, this  kept my room
very bright.  And then the rats had a wedding or a  school-feast under my bed.  And then I
woke early, and I have  nothing to read except Virgil's AENEID, which is not good fun on an
empty stomach, and a Latin dictionary, which is good for naught,  and by some humorous accident,
your dear papa's article on  Skerryvore.  And I read the whole of that, and very impudent it
is,  but you must not tell your dear papa I said so, or it might come to  a battle in which
you might lose either a dear papa or a valued  correspondent, or both, which would be prodigal.
And still no  breakfast; so I said 'Let's write to Tomarcher.'

This is a much better place for children than any I have hitherto  seen in these seas.  The
girls (and sometimes the boys) play a very  elaborate kind of hopscotch.  The boys play horses
exactly as we do  in Europe; and have very good fun on stilts, trying to knock each  other
down, in which they do not often succeed.  The children of  all ages go to church and are allowed
to do what they please,  running about the aisles, rolling balls, stealing mamma's bonnet 
and publicly sitting on it, and at last going to sleep in the  middle of the floor.  I forgot
to say that the whips to play  horses, and the balls to roll about the church - at least I
never  saw them used elsewhere - grow ready made on trees; which is rough  on toy-shops.  The
whips are so good that I wanted to play horses  myself; but no such luck! my hair is grey,
and I am a great, big,  ugly man.  The balls are rather hard, but very light and quite  round.
When you grow up and become offensively rich, you can  charter a ship in the port of London,
and have it come back to you  entirely loaded with these balls; when you could satisfy your
mind  as to their character, and give them away when done with to your  uncles and aunts. 
But what I really wanted to tell you was this:   besides the tree-top toys (Hush-a-by, toy-shop,
on the tree-top!),  I have seen some real MADE toys, the first hitherto observed in the  South
Seas.

This was how.  You are to imagine a four-wheeled gig; one horse; in  the front seat two Tahiti
natives, in their Sunday clothes, blue  coat, white shirt, kilt (a little longer than the Scotch)
of a blue  stuff with big white or yellow flowers, legs and feet bare; in the  back seat me
and my wife, who is a friend of yours; under our feet,  plenty of lunch and things:  among
us a great deal of fun in broken  Tahitian, one of the natives, the sub-chief of the village,
being a  great ally of mine.  Indeed we have exchanged names; so that he is  now called Rui,
the nearest they can come to Louis, for they have  no L and no S in their language.  Rui is
six feet three in his  stockings, and a magnificent man.  We all have straw hats, for the 
sun is strong.  We drive between the sea, which makes a great  noise, and the mountains; the
road is cut through a forest mostly  of fruit trees, the very creepers, which take the place
of our ivy,  heavy with a great and delicious fruit, bigger than your head and  far nicer,
called Barbedine.  Presently we came to a house in a  pretty garden, quite by itself, very
nicely kept, the doors and  windows open, no one about, and no noise but that of the sea. 
It  looked like a house in a fairy-tale, and just beyond we must ford a  river, and there we
saw the inhabitants.  Just in the mouth of the  river, where it met the sea waves, they were
ducking and bathing  and screaming together like a covey of birds:  seven or eight  little
naked brown boys and girls as happy as the day was long; and  on the banks of the stream beside
them, real toys - toy ships, full  rigged, and with their sails set, though they were lying
in the  dust on their beam ends.  And then I knew for sure they were all  children in a fairy-story,
living alone together in that lonely  house with the only toys in all the island; and that
I had myself  driven, in my four-wheeled gig, into a corner of the fairy-story,  and the question
was, should I get out again?  But it was all  right; I guess only one of the wheels of the
gig had got into the  fairy-story; and the next jolt the whole thing vanished, and we  drove
on in our sea-side forest as before, and I have the honour to  be Tomarcher's valued correspondent,
TERIITEPA, which he was  previously known as

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

YACHT 'CASCO,' AT SEA, 14TH JANUARY, 1889.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Twenty days out from Papeete.  Yes, sir, all  that, and only (for a guess)
in 4 degrees north or at the best 4  degrees 30 minutes, though already the wind seems to smell
a little  of the North Pole.  My handwriting you must take as you get, for we  are speeding
along through a nasty swell, and I can only keep my  place at the table by means of a foot
against the divan, the  unoccupied hand meanwhile gripping the ink-bottle.  As we begin (so
very slowly) to draw near to seven months of correspondence, we are  all in some fear; and
I want to have letters written before I shall  be plunged into that boiling pot of disagreeables
which I  constantly expect at Honolulu.  What is needful can be added there.

We were kept two months at Tautira in the house of my dear old  friend, Ori a Ori, till both
the masts of this invaluable yacht had  been repaired.  It was all for the best:  Tautira being
the most  beautiful spot, and its people the most amiable, I have ever found.   Besides which,
the climate suited me to the ground; I actually went  sea-bathing almost every day, and in
our feasts (we are all huge  eaters in Taiarapu) have been known to apply four times for pig.
And then again I got wonderful materials for my book, collected  songs and legends on the spot;
songs still sung in chorus by  perhaps a hundred persons, not two of whom can agree on their
translation; legends, on which I have seen half a dozen seniors  sitting in conclave and debating
what came next.  Once I went a  day's journey to the other side of the island to Tati, the
high  chief of the Tevas - MY chief that is, for I am now a Teva and  Teriitera, at your service
- to collect more and correct what I had  already.  In the meanwhile I got on with my work,
almost finished  the MASTER OF BALLANTRAE, which contains more human work than  anything of
mine but KIDNAPPED, and wrote the half of another  ballad, the SONG OF RAHERO, on a Taiarapu
legend of my own clan,  sir - not so much fire as the FEAST OF FAMINE, but promising to be
more even and correct.  But the best fortune of our stay at Tautira  was my knowledge of Ori
himself, one of the finest creatures  extant.  The day of our parting was a sad one.  We deduced
from it  a rule for travellers:  not to stay two months in one place - which  is to cultivate
regrets.

At last our contemptible ship was ready; to sea we went, bound for  Honolulu and the letter-bag,
on Christmas Day; and from then to now  have experienced every sort of minor misfortune, squalls,
calms,  contrary winds and seas, pertinacious rains, declining stores, till  we came almost
to regard ourselves as in the case of Vanderdecken.   Three days ago our luck seemed to improve,
we struck a leading  breeze, got creditably through the doldrums, and just as we looked  to
have the N.E. trades and a straight run, the rains and squalls  and calms began again about
midnight, and this morning, though  there is breeze enough to send us along, we are beaten
back by an  obnoxious swell out of the north.  Here is a page of complaint,  when a verse of
thanksgiving had perhaps been more in place.  For  all this time we must have been skirting
past dangerous weather, in  the tail and circumference of hurricanes, and getting only  annoyance
where we should have had peril, and ill-humour instead of  fear.

I wonder if I have managed to give you any news this time, or  whether the usual damn hangs
over my letter?  'The midwife  whispered, Be thou dull!' or at least inexplicit.  Anyway I
have  tried my best, am exhausted with the effort, and fall back into the  land of generalities.
I cannot tell you how often we have planned  our arrival at the Monument:  two nights ago,
the 12th January, we  had it all planned out, arrived in the lights and whirl of  Waterloo,
hailed a hansom, span up Waterloo Road, over the bridge,  etc. etc., and hailed the Monument
gate in triumph and with  indescribable delight.  My dear Custodian, I always think we are
too sparing of assurances:  Cordelia is only to be excused by Regan  and Goneril in the same
nursery; I wish to tell you that the longer  I live, the more dear do you become to me; nor
does my heart own  any stronger sentiment.  If the bloody schooner didn't send me  flying in
every sort of direction at the same time, I would say  better what I feel so much; but really,
if you were here, you would  not be writing letters, I believe; and even I, though of a more
marine constitution, am much perturbed by this bobbery and wish - O  ye Gods, how I wish! -
that it was done, and we had arrived, and I  had Pandora's Box (my mail bag) in hand, and was
in the lively hope  of something eatable for dinner instead of salt horse, tinned  mutton,
duff without any plums, and pie fruit, which now make up  our whole repertory.  O Pandora's
Box!  I wonder what you will  contain.  As like as not you will contain but little money: 
if  that be so, we shall have to retire to 'Frisco in the CASCO, and  thence by sea VIA Panama
to Southampton, where we should arrive in  April.  I would like fine to see you on the tug:
ten years older  both of us than the last time you came to welcome Fanny and me to  England.
If we have money, however, we shall do a little  differently:  send the CASCO away from Honolulu
empty of its high- born lessees, for that voyage to 'Frisco is one long dead beat in  foul
and at last in cold weather; stay awhile behind, follow by  steamer, cross the States by train,
stay awhile in New York on  business, and arrive probably by the German Line in Southampton.
But all this is a question of money.  We shall have to lie very  dark awhile to recruit our
finances:  what comes from the book of  the cruise, I do not want to touch until the capital
is repaid.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

HONOLULU, JANUARY 1889.

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - Here at last I have arrived.  We could not  get away from Tahiti till
Christmas Day, and then had thirty days  of calms and squalls, a deplorable passage.  This
has thrown me all  out of gear in every way.  I plunge into business.

1.  THE MASTER:  Herewith go three more parts.  You see he grows in  balk; this making ten
already, and I am not yet sure if I can  finish it in an eleventh; which shall go to you QUAM
PRIMUM - I  hope by next mail.

2.  ILLUSTRATIONS TO M.  I totally forgot to try to write to Hole.   It was just as well, for
I find it impossible to forecast with  sufficient precision.  You had better throw off all
this and let  him have it at once.  PLEASE DO:  ALL, AND AT ONCE:  SEE FURTHER;  and I should
hope he would still be in time for the later numbers.   The three pictures I have received
are so truly good that I should  bitterly regret having the volume imperfectly equipped.  They
are  the best illustrations I have seen since I don't know when.

3.  MONEY.  To-morrow the mail comes in, and I hope it will bring  me money either from you
or home, but I will add a word on that  point.

4.  My address will be Honolulu - no longer Yacht CASCO, which I am  packing off - till probably
April.

5.  As soon as I am through with THE MASTER, I shall finish the  GAME OF BLUFF - now rechristened
THE WRONG BOX.  This I wish to  sell, cash down.  It is of course copyright in the States;
and I  offer it to you for five thousand dollars.  Please reply on this by  return.  Also please
tell the typewriter who was so good as to be  amused by our follies that I am filled with admiration
for his  piece of work.

6.  MASTER again.  Please see that I haven't the name of the  Governor of New York wrong (1764
is the date) in part ten.  I have  no book of reference to put me right.  Observe you now have
up to  August inclusive in hand, so you should begin to feel happy.

Is this all?  I wonder, and fear not.  Henry the Trader has not yet  turned up:  I hope he
may to-morrow, when we expect a mail.  Not  one word of business have I received either from
the States or  England, nor anything in the shape of coin; which leaves me in a  fine uncertainty
and quite penniless on these islands.  H.M. (who  is a gentleman of a courtly order and much
tinctured with letters)  is very polite; I may possibly ask for the position of palace  doorkeeper.
My voyage has been a singular mixture of good and ill- fortune.  As far as regards interest
and material, the fortune has  been admirable; as far as regards time, money, and impediments
of  all kinds, from squalls and calms to rotten masts and sprung spars,  simply detestable.
I hope you will be interested to hear of two  volumes on the wing.  The cruise itself, you
are to know, will make  a big volume with appendices; some of it will first appear as (what
they call) letters in some of M'Clure's papers.  I believe the book  when ready will have a
fair measure of serious interest:  I have  had great fortune in finding old songs and ballads
and stories, for  instance, and have many singular instances of life in the last few  years
among these islands.

The second volume is of ballads.  You know TICONDEROGA.  I have  written another:  THE FEAST
OF FAMINE, a Marquesan story.  A third  is half done:  THE SONG OF RAHERO, a genuine Tahitian
legend.  A  fourth dances before me.  A Hawaiian fellow this, THE PRIEST'S  DROUGHT, or some
such name.  If, as I half suspect, I get enough  subjects out of the islands, TICONDEROGA shall
be suppressed, and  we'll call the volume SOUTH SEA BALLADS.  In health, spirits,  renewed
interest in life, and, I do believe, refreshed capacity for  work, the cruise has proved a
wise folly.  Still we're not home,  and (although the friend of a crowned head) are penniless
upon  these (as one of my correspondents used to call them) 'lovely but  FATIL islands.'  By
the way, who wrote the LION OF THE NILE?  My  dear sir, that is Something Like.  Overdone in
bits, it has a true  thought and a true ring of language.  Beg the anonymous from me, to  delete
(when he shall republish) the two last verses, and end on  'the lion of the Nile.'  One Lampman
has a good sonnet on a 'Winter  Evening' in, I think, the same number:  he seems ill named,
but I  am tempted to hope a man is not always answerable for his name.   For instance, you
would think you knew mine.  No such matter.  It  is - at your service and Mr. Scribner's and
that of all of the  faithful - Teriitera (pray pronounce Tayree-Tayra) or (GALLICE)  Teri-tera.

R. L. S.

More when the mail shall come.

I am an idiot.  I want to be clear on one point.  Some of Hole's  drawings must of course be
too late; and yet they seem to me so  excellent I would fain have the lot complete.  It is
one thing for  you to pay for drawings which are to appear in that soul-swallowing  machine,
your magazine:  quite another if they are only to  illustrate a volume.  I wish you to take
a brisk (even a fiery)  decision on the point; and let Hole know.  To resume my desultory 
song, I desire you would carry the same fire (hereinbefore  suggested) into your decision on
the WRONG BOX; for in my present  state of benighted ignorance as to my affairs for the last
seven  months - I know not even whether my house or my mother's house have  been let - I desire
to see something definite in front of me -  outside the lot of palace doorkeeper.  I believe
the said WRONG BOX  is a real lark; in which, of course, I may be grievously deceived;  but
the typewriter is with me.  I may also be deceived as to the  numbers of THE MASTER now going
and already gone; but to me they  seem First Chop, sir, First Chop.  I hope I shall pull off
that  damned ending; but it still depresses me:  this is your doing, Mr.  Burlingame:  you
would have it there and then, and I fear it - I  fear that ending.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

HONOLULU, FEBRUARY 8TH, 1889.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - Here we are at Honolulu, and have dismissed the  yacht, and lie here till
April anyway, in a fine state of haze,  which I am yet in hopes some letter of yours (still
on the way) may  dissipate.  No money, and not one word as to money!  However, I  have got
the yacht paid off in triumph, I think; and though we stay  here impignorate, it should not
be for long, even if you bring us  no extra help from home.  The cruise has been a great success,
both  as to matter, fun, and health; and yet, Lord, man! we're pleased to  be ashore!  Yon
was a very fine voyage from Tahiti up here, but -  the dry land's a fine place too, and we
don't mind squalls any  longer, and eh, man, that's a great thing.  Blow, blow, thou wintry
wind, thou hast done me no appreciable harm beyond a few grey  hairs!  Altogether, this foolhardy
venture is achieved; and if I  have but nine months of life and any kind of health, I shall
have  both eaten my cake and got it back again with usury.  But, man,  there have been days
when I felt guilty, and thought I was in no  position for the head of a house.

Your letter and accounts are doubtless at S. F., and will reach me  in course.  My wife is
no great shakes; she is the one who has  suffered most.  My mother has had a Huge Old Time;
Lloyd is first  chop; I so well that I do not know myself - sea-bathing, if you  please, and
what is far more dangerous, entertaining and being  entertained by His Majesty here, who is
a very fine intelligent  fellow, but O, Charles! what a crop for the drink!  He carries it,
too, like a mountain with a sparrow on its shoulders.  We  calculated five bottles of champagne
in three hours and a half  (afternoon), and the sovereign quite presentable, although  perceptibly
more dignified at the end. . . .

The extraordinary health I enjoy and variety of interests I find  among these islands would
tempt me to remain here; only for Lloyd,  who is not well placed in such countries for a permanency;
and a  little for Colvin, to whom I feel I owe a sort of filial duty.  And  these two considerations
will no doubt bring me back - to go to bed  again - in England. - Yours ever affectionately,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO R. A. M. STEVENSON

HONOLULU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS, FEBRUARY 1889.

MY DEAR BOB, - My extremely foolhardy venture is practically over.   How foolhardy it was I
don't think I realised.  We had a very small  schooner, and, like most yachts, over-rigged
and over-sparred, and  like many American yachts on a very dangerous sail plan.  The  waters
we sailed in are, of course, entirely unlighted, and very  badly charted; in the Dangerous
Archipelago, through which we were  fools enough to go, we were perfectly in ignorance of where
we were  for a whole night and half the next day, and this in the midst of  invisible islands
and rapid and variable currents; and we were  lucky when we found our whereabouts at last.
We have twice had all  we wanted in the way of squalls:  once, as I came on deck, I found 
the green sea over the cockpit coamings and running down the  companion like a brook to meet
me; at that same moment the foresail  sheet jammed and the captain had no knife; this was the
only  occasion on the cruise that ever I set a hand to a rope, but I  worked like a Trojan,
judging the possibility of haemorrhage better  than the certainty of drowning.  Another time
I saw a rather  singular thing:  our whole ship's company as pale as paper from the  captain
to the cook; we had a black squall astern on the port side  and a white squall ahead to starboard;
the complication passed off  innocuous, the black squall only fetching us with its tail, and
the  white one slewing off somewhere else.  Twice we were a long while  (days) in the close
vicinity of hurricane weather, but again luck  prevailed, and we saw none of it.  These are
dangers incident to  these seas and small craft.  What was an amazement, and at the same  time
a powerful stroke of luck, both our masts were rotten, and we  found it out - I was going to
say in time, but it was stranger and  luckier than that.  The head of the mainmast hung over
so that  hands were afraid to go to the helm; and less than three weeks  before - I am not
sure it was more than a fortnight - we had been  nearly twelve hours beating off the lee shore
of Eimeo (or Moorea,  next island to Tahiti) in half a gale of wind with a violent head  sea:
she would neither tack nor wear once, and had to be boxed off  with the mainsail - you can
imagine what an ungodly show of kites  we carried - and yet the mast stood.  My wife, hearing
the order given about the boats, remarked to my mother, 'Isn't that  nice?  We shall soon be
ashore!'  Thus does the female mind  unconsciously skirt along the verge of eternity.  Our
voyage up  here was most disastrous - calms, squalls, head sea, waterspouts of  rain, hurricane
weather all about, and we in the midst of the  hurricane season, when even the hopeful builder
and owner of the  yacht had pronounced these seas unfit for her.  We ran out of food,  and
were quite given up for lost in Honolulu:  people had ceased to  speak to Belle about the CASCO,
as a deadly subject.

But the perils of the deep were part of the programme; and though I  am very glad to be done
with them for a while and comfortably  ashore, where a squall does not matter a snuff to any
one, I feel  pretty sure I shall want to get to sea again ere long.  The  dreadful risk I took
was financial, and double-headed.  First, I  had to sink a lot of money in the cruise, and
if I didn't get  health, how was I to get it back?  I have got health to a wonderful  extent;
and as I have the most interesting matter for my book, bar  accidents, I ought to get all I
have laid out and a profit.  But,  second (what I own I never considered till too late), there
was the  danger of collisions, of damages and heavy repairs, of disablement,  towing, and salvage;
indeed, the cruise might have turned round and  cost me double.  Nor will this danger be quite
over till I hear the  yacht is in San Francisco; for though I have shaken the dust of her 
deck from my feet, I fear (as a point of law) she is still mine  till she gets there.

From my point of view, up to now the cruise has been a wonderful  success.  I never knew the
world was so amusing.  On the last  voyage we had grown so used to sea-life that no one wearied,
though  it lasted a full month, except Fanny, who is always ill.  All the  time our visits
to the islands have been more like dreams than  realities:  the people, the life, the beachcombers,
the old stories  and songs I have picked up, so interesting; the climate, the  scenery, and
(in some places) the women, so beautiful.  The women  are handsomest in Tahiti, the men in
the Marquesas; both as fine  types as can be imagined.  Lloyd reminds me, I have not told you
one characteristic incident of the cruise from a semi-naval point  of view.  One night we were
going ashore in Anaho Bay; the most  awful noise on deck; the breakers distinctly audible in
the cabin;  and there I had to sit below, entertaining in my best style a  negroid native chieftain,
much the worse for rum!  You can imagine  the evening's pleasure.

This naval report on cruising in the South Seas would be incomplete  without one other trait.
On our voyage up here I came one day into  the dining-room, the hatch in the floor was open,
the ship's boy  was below with a baler, and two of the hands were carrying buckets  as for
a fire; this meant that the pumps had ceased working.

One stirring day was that in which we sighted Hawaii.  It blew  fair, but very strong; we carried
jib, foresail, and mainsail, all  single-reefed, and she carried her lee rail under water and
flew.   The swell, the heaviest I have ever been out in - I tried in vain  to estimate the
height, AT LEAST fifteen feet - came tearing after  us about a point and a half off the wind.
We had the best hand -  old Louis - at the wheel; and, really, he did nobly, and had noble
luck, for it never caught us once.  At times it seemed we must have  it; Louis would look over
his shoulder with the queerest look and  dive down his neck into his shoulders; and then it
missed us  somehow, and only sprays came over our quarter, turning the little  outside lane
of deck into a mill race as deep as to the cockpit  coamings.  I never remember anything more
delightful and exciting.   Pretty soon after we were lying absolutely becalmed under the lee
of Hawaii, of which we had been warned; and the captain never  confessed he had done it on
purpose, but when accused, he smiled.   Really, I suppose he did quite right, for we stood
committed to a  dangerous race, and to bring her to the wind would have been rather  a heart-sickening
manoeuvre.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MARCEL SCHWOB

HONOLULU, SANDWICH ISLANDS, FEBRUARY 8TH, 1889.

DEAR SIR, - I thank you - from the midst of such a flurry as you  can imagine, with seven months'
accumulated correspondence on my  table - for your two friendly and clever letters.  Pray write
me  again.  I shall be home in May or June, and not improbably shall  come to Paris in the
summer.  Then we can talk; or in the interval  I may be able to write, which is to-day out
of the question.  Pray  take a word from a man of crushing occupations, and count it as a 
volume.  Your little CONTE is delightful.  Ah yes, you are right, I  love the eighteenth century;
and so do you, and have not listened  to its voice in vain. - The Hunted One,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

HONOLULU, 8TH MARCH 1889.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - At last I have the accounts:  the Doer has done  excellently, and in the
words of -, 'I reciprocate every step of  your behaviour.' . .  I send a letter for Bob in
your care, as I  don't know his Liverpool address, by which (for he is to show you  part of
it) you will see we have got out of this adventure - or  hope to have - with wonderful fortune.
I have the retrospective  horrors on me when I think of the liabilities I incurred; but,  thank
God, I think I'm in port again, and I have found one climate  in which I can enjoy life.  Even
Honolulu is too cold for me; but  the south isles were a heaven upon earth to a puir, catarrhal
party  like Johns'one.  We think, as Tahiti is too complete a banishment,  to try Madeira.
It's only a week from England, good  communications, and I suspect in climate and scenery not
unlike our  dear islands; in people, alas! there can be no comparison.  But  friends could
go, and I could come in summer, so I should not be  quite cut off.

Lloyd and I have finished a story, THE WRONG BOX.  If it is not  funny, I am sure I do not
know what is.  I have split over writing  it.  Since I have been here, I have been toiling
like a galley  slave:  three numbers of THE MASTER to rewrite, five chapters of  the WRONG
BOX to write and rewrite, and about five hundred lines of  a narrative poem to write, rewrite,
and re-rewrite.  Now I have THE  MASTER waiting me for its continuation, two numbers more;
when  that's done, I shall breathe.  This spasm of activity has been  chequered with champagne
parties:  Happy and Glorious, Hawaii Ponoi  paua:  kou moi - (Native Hawaiians, dote upon your
monarch!)  Hawaiian God save the King.  (In addition to my other labours, I am  learning the
language with a native moonshee.)  Kalakaua is a  terrible companion; a bottle of fizz is like
a glass of sherry to  him, he thinks nothing of five or six in an afternoon as a whet for 
dinner.  You should see a photograph of our party after an  afternoon with H. H. M.:  my! what
a crew! - Yours ever  affectionately,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO HENRY JAMES

HONOLULU [MARCH 1889].

MY DEAR JAMES, - Yes - I own up - I am untrue to friendship and  (what is less, but still considerable)
to civilisation.  I am not  coming home for another year.  There it is, cold and bald, and
now  you won't believe in me at all, and serve me right (says you) and  the devil take me.
And even  here in Honolulu I have withered in the cold; and this precious  deep is filled with
islands, which we may still visit; and though  the sea is a deathful place, I like to be there,
and like squalls  (when they are over); and to draw near to a new island, I cannot  say how
much I like.  In short, I take another year of this sort of  life, and mean to try to work
down among the poisoned arrows, and  mean (if it may be) to come back again when the thing
is through,  and converse with Henry James as heretofore; and in the meanwhile  issue directions
to H. J. to write to me once more.  Let him  address here at Honolulu, for my views are vague;
and if it is sent  here it will follow and find me, if I am to be found; and if I am  not to
be found the man James will have done his duty, and we shall  be at the bottom of the sea,
where no post-office clerk can be  expected to discover us, or languishing on a coral island,
the  philosophic drudges of some barbarian potentate:  perchance, of an  American Missionary.
My wife has just sent to Mrs. Sitwell a  translation (TANT BIEN QUE MAL) of a letter I have
had from my  chief friend in this part of the world:  go and see her, and get a  hearing of
it; it will do you good; it is a better method of  correspondence 'than even Henry James's.
I jest, but seriously it  is a strange thing for a tough, sick, middle-aged scrivener like
R.  L. S. to receive a letter so conceived from a man fifty years old,  a leading politician,
a crack orator, and the great wit of his  village:  boldly say, 'the highly popular M.P. of
Tautira.'  My  nineteenth century strikes here, and lies alongside of something  beautiful
and ancient.  I think the receipt of such a letter might  humble, shall I say even -? and for
me, I would rather have  received it than written REDGAUNTLET or the SIXTH AENEID.  It would
seem from  this that I have been not so much humbled as puffed up; but, I  assure you, I have
in fact been both.  A little of what that letter  says is my own earning; not all, but yet
a little; and the little  makes me proud, and all the rest ashamed; and in the contrast, how
much more beautiful altogether is the ancient man than him of to- day!

Well, well, Henry James is pretty good, though he IS of the  nineteenth century, and that glaringly.
And to curry favour with  him, I wish I could be more explicit; but, indeed, I am still of
necessity extremely vague, and cannot tell what I am to do, nor  where I am to go for some
while yet.  As soon as I am sure, you  shall hear.  All are fairly well - the wife, your countrywoman,
least of all; troubles are not entirely wanting; but on the whole  we prosper, and we are all
affectionately yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

HONOLULU, APRIL 2ND, 1889.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I am beginning to be ashamed of writing on to you  without the least acknowledgment,
like a tramp; but I do not care -  I am hardened; and whatever be the cause of your silence,
I mean to  write till all is blue.  I am outright ashamed of my news, which is  that we are
not coming home for another year.  I cannot but hope it  may continue the vast improvement
of my health:  I think it good  for Fanny and Lloyd; and we have all a taste for this wandering
and  dangerous life.  My mother I send home, to my relief, as this part  of our cruise will
be (if we can carry it out) rather difficult in  places.  Here is the idea:  about the middle
of June (unless the  Boston Board objects) we sail from Honolulu in the missionary ship  (barquentine
auxiliary steamer) MORNING STAR:  she takes us through  the Gilberts and Marshalls, and drops
us (this is my great idea) on  Ponape, one of the volcanic islands of the Carolines.  Here
we stay  marooned among a doubtful population, with a Spanish vice-governor  and five native
kings, and a sprinkling of missionaries all at  loggerheads, on the chance of fetching a passage
to Sydney in a  trader, a labour ship, or (maybe, but this appears too bright) a  ship of war.
If we can't get the MORNING STAR (and the Board has  many reasons that I can see for refusing
its permission) I mean to  try to fetch Fiji, hire a schooner there, do the Fijis and  Friendlies,
hit the course of the RICHMOND at Tonga Tabu, make back  by Tahiti, and so to S. F., and home:
perhaps in June 1890.  For  the latter part of the cruise will likely be the same in either
case.  You can see for yourself how much variety and adventure this  promises, and that it
is not devoid of danger at the best; but if  we can pull it off in safety, gives me a fine
book of travel, and  Lloyd a fine lecture and diorama, which should vastly better our  finances.

I feel as if I were untrue to friendship; believe me, Colvin, when  I look forward to this
absence of another year, my conscience sinks  at thought of the Monument; but I think you will
pardon me if you  consider how much this tropical weather mends my health.  I do not think
I  delude myself when I say the tendency to catarrh has visibly  diminished.  She said I was
to be very happy, to  visit America, and TO BE MUCH UPON THE SEA.  It seems as if it were 
coming true with a vengeance.  Also, do you remember my strong,  old, rooted belief that I
shall die by drowning?  I don't want that  to come true, though it is an easy death; but it
occurs to me  oddly, with these long chances in front.  I cannot say why I like  the sea; no
man is more cynically and constantly alive to its  perils; I regard it as the highest form
of gambling; and yet I love  the sea as much as I hate gambling.  Fine, clean emotions; a world
all and always beautiful; air better than wine; interest  unflagging; there is upon the whole
no better life. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

[HONOLULU, APRIL 1889.]

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - This is to announce the most prodigious  change of programme.  I have
seen so much of the South Seas that I  desire to see more, and I get so much health here that
I dread a  return to our vile climates.  I have applied accordingly to the  missionary folk
to let me go round in the MORNING STAR; and if the  Boston Board should refuse, I shall get
somehow to Fiji, hire a  trading schooner, and see the Fijis and Friendlies and Samoa.  He
would be a South Seayer, Mr. Burlingame.  Of course, if I go in the  MORNING STAR, I see all
the eastern (or western?) islands.

Before I sail, I shall make out to let you have the last of THE  MASTER:  though I tell you
it sticks! - and I hope to have had some  proofs forbye, of the verses anyway.  And now to
business.

I want (if you can find them) in the British sixpenny edition, if  not, in some equally compact
and portable shape - Seaside Library,  for instance - the Waverley Novels entire, or as entire
as you can  get 'em, and the following of Marryat:  PHANTOM SHIP, PETER SIMPLE,  PERCIVAL KEENE,
PRIVATEERSMAN, CHILDREN OF THE NEW FOREST, FRANK  MILDMAY, NEWTON FORSTER, DOG FIEND (SNARLEYYOW).
Also MIDSHIPMAN  EASY, KINGSBURN, Carlyle's FRENCH REVOLUTION, Motley's DUTCH  REPUBLIC, Lang's
LETTERS ON LITERATURE, a complete set of my works,  JENKIN, in duplicate; also FAMILIAR STUDIES,
ditto.

I have to thank you for the accounts, which are satisfactory  indeed, and for the cheque for
$1000.  Another account will have  come and gone before I see you.  I hope it will be equally
roseate  in colour.  I am quite worked out, and this cursed end of THE  MASTER hangs over me
like the arm of the gallows; but it is always  darkest before dawn, and no doubt the clouds
will soon rise; but it  is a difficult thing to write, above all in Mackellarese; and I  cannot
yet see my way clear.  If I pull this off, THE MASTER will  be a pretty good novel or I am
the more deceived; and even if I  don't pull it off, it'll still have some stuff in it.

We shall remain here until the middle of June anyway; but my mother  leaves for Europe early
in May.  Hence our mail should continue to  come here; but not hers.  I will let you know my
next address,  which will probably be Sydney.  If we get on the MORNING STAR, I  propose at
present to get marooned on Ponape, and take my chance of  getting a passage to Australia. 
It will leave times and seasons  mighty vague, and the cruise is risky; but I shall know something
of the South Seas when it is done, or else the South Seas will  contain all there is of me.
It should give me a fine book of  travels, anyway.

Low will probably come and ask some dollars of you.  Pray let him  have them, they are for
outfit.  O, another complete set of my  books should go to Captain A. H. Otis, care of Dr.
Merritt, Yacht  CASCO, Oakland, Cal.  In haste,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MISS ADELAIDE BOODLE

HONOLULU, APRIL 6TH, 1889.

MY DEAR MISS BOODLE, - Nobody writes a better letter than my  Gamekeeper:  so gay, so pleasant,
so engagingly particular,  answering (by some delicate instinct) all the questions she  suggests.
It is a shame you should get such a poor return as I can  make, from a mind essentially and
originally incapable of the art  epistolary.  I would let the paper-cutter take my place; but
I am  sorry to say the little wooden seaman did after the manner of  seamen, and deserted in
the Societies.  The place he seems to have  stayed at - seems, for his absence was not observed
till we were  near the Equator - was Tautira, and, I assure you, he displayed  good taste,
Tautira being as 'nigh hand heaven' as a paper-cutter  or anybody has a right to expect.

I think all our friends will be very angry with us, and I give the  grounds of their probable
displeasure bluntly - we are not coming  home for another year.  My mother returns next month.
Fanny,  Lloyd, and I push on again among the islands on a trading schooner,  the EQUATOR -
first for the Gilbert group, which we shall have an  opportunity to explore thoroughly; then,
if occasion serve, to the  Marshalls and Carolines; and if occasion (or money) fail, to Samoa,
and back to Tahiti.  I own we are deserters, but we have excuses.   You cannot conceive how
these climates agree with the wretched  house-plant of Skerryvore:  he wonders to find himself
sea-bathing,  and cutting about the world loose, like a grown-up person.  They  agree with
Fanny too, who does not suffer from her rheumatism, and  with Lloyd also.  And the interest
of the islands is endless; and  the sea, though I own it is a fearsome place, is very delightful.
We had applied for places in the American missionary ship, the  MORNING STAR, but this trading
schooner is a far preferable idea,  giving us more time and a thousandfold more liberty; so
we  determined to cut off the missionaries with a shilling.

The Sandwich Islands do not interest us very much; we live here,  oppressed with civilisation,
and look for good things in the  future.  But it would surprise you if you came out to-night
from  Honolulu (all shining with electric lights, and all in a bustle  from the arrival of
the mail, which is to carry you these lines)  and crossed the long wooden causeway along the
beach, and came out  on the road through Kapiolani park, and seeing a gate in the  palings,
with a tub of gold-fish by the wayside, entered casually  in.  The buildings stand in three
groups by the edge of the beach,  where an angry little spitfire sea continually spirts and
thrashes  with impotent irascibility, the big seas breaking further out upon  the reef.  The
first is a small house, with a very large summer  parlour, or LANAI, as they call it here,
roofed, but practically  open.  There you will find the lamps burning and the family sitting
about the table, dinner just done:  my mother, my wife, Lloyd,  Belle, my wife's daughter,
Austin her child, and to-night (by way  of rarity) a guest.  All about the walls our South
Sea curiosities,  war clubs, idols, pearl shells, stone axes, etc.; and the walls are  only
a small part of a lanai, the rest being glazed or latticed  windows, or mere open space.  You
will see there no sign of the  Squire, however; and being a person of a humane disposition,
you  will only glance in over the balcony railing at the merry-makers in  the summer parlour,
and proceed further afield after the Exile.   You look round, there is beautiful green turf,
many trees of an  outlandish sort that drop thorns - look out if your feet are bare;  but I
beg your pardon, you have not been long enough in the South  Seas - and many oleanders in full
flower.  The next group of  buildings is ramshackle, and quite dark; you make out a coach-house
door, and look in - only some cocoanuts; you try round to the left  and come to the sea front,
where Venus and the moon are making  luminous tracks on the water, and a great swell rolls
and shines on  the outer reef; and here is another door - all these places open  from the outside
- and you go in, and find photography, tubs of  water, negatives steeping, a tap, and a chair
and an inkbottle,  where my wife is supposed to write; round a little further, a third  door,
entering which you find a picture upon the easel and a table  sticky with paints; a fourth
door admits you to a sort of court,  where there is a hen sitting - I believe on a fallacious
egg.  No  sign of the Squire in all this.  But right opposite the studio door  you have observed
a third little house, from whose open door  lamplight streams and makes hay of the strong moonlight
shadows.   You had supposed it made no part of the grounds, for a fence runs  round it lined
with oleander; but as the Squire is nowhere else, is  it not just possible he may be here?
It is a grim little wooden  shanty; cobwebs bedeck it; friendly mice inhabit its recesses;
the  mailed cockroach walks upon the wall; so also, I regret to say, the  scorpion.  Herein
are two pallet beds, two mosquito curtains,  strung to the pitch-boards of the roof, two tables
laden with books  and manuscripts, three chairs, and, in one of the beds, the Squire  busy
writing to yourself, as it chances, and just at this moment  somewhat bitten by mosquitoes.
He has just set fire to the insect  powder, and will be all right in no time; but just now
he  contemplates large white blisters, and would like to scratch them,  but knows better. 
The house is not bare; it has been inhabited by  Kanakas, and - you know what children are!
- the bare wood walls  are pasted over with pages from the GRAPHIC, HARPER'S WEEKLY, etc. 
The floor is matted, and I am bound to say the matting is filthy.   There are two windows and
two doors, one of which is condemned; on  the panels of that last a sheet of paper is pinned
up, and covered  with writing.  I cull a few plums:-

'A duck-hammock for each person. A patent organ like the commandant's at Taiohae. Cheap and
bad cigars for presents. Revolvers. Permanganate of potass. Liniment for the head and sulphur.
Fine tooth-comb.'

What do you think this is?  Simply life in the South Seas  foreshortened.  These are a few
of our desiderata for the next  trip, which we jot down as they occur.

There, I have really done my best and tried to send something like  a letter - one letter in
return for all your dozens.  Pray remember  us all to yourself, Mrs. Boodle, and the rest of
your house.  I do  hope your mother will be better when this comes.  I shall write and  give
you a new address when I have made up my mind as to the most  probable, and I do beg you will
continue to write from time to time  and give us airs from home.  To-morrow - think of it -
I must be  off by a quarter to eight to drive in to the palace and breakfast  with his Hawaiian
Majesty at 8.30:  I shall be dead indeed.  Please  give my news to Scott, I trust he is better;
give him my warm  regards.  To you we all send all kinds of things, and I am the  absentee Squire,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

HONOLULU, APRIL 1889.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - As usual, your letter is as good as a cordial,  and I thank you for it,
and all your care, kindness, and generous  and thoughtful friendship, from my heart.  I was
truly glad to hear  a word of Colvin, whose long silence has terrified me; and glad to  hear
that you condoned the notion of my staying longer in the South  Seas, for I have decided in
that sense.  The first idea was to go  in the MORNING STAR, missionary ship; but now I have
found a  trading schooner, the EQUATOR, which is to call for me here early  in June and carry
us through the Gilberts.  What will happen then,  the Lord knows.  My mother does not accompany
us:  she leaves here  for home early in May, and you will hear of us from her; but not, I 
imagine, anything more definite.  We shall get dumped on  Butaritari, and whether we manage
to go on to the Marshalls and  Carolines, or whether we fall back on Samoa, Heaven must decide;
but I mean to fetch back into the course of the RICHMOND - (to  think you don't know what the
RICHMOND is! - the steamer of the  Eastern South Seas, joining New Zealand, Tongatabu, the
Samoas,  Taheite, and Rarotonga, and carrying by last advices sheep in the  saloon!) - into
the course of the RICHMOND and make Taheite again  on the home track.  Would I like to see
the SCOTS OBSERVER?   Wouldn't I not?  But whaur?  I'm direckit at space.  They have nae  post
offishes at the Gilberts, and as for the Car'lines!  Ye see,  Mr. Baxter, we're no just in
the punkshewal CENTRE o' civ'lisation.   But pile them up for me, and when I've decided on
an address, I'll  let you ken, and ye'll can send them stavin' after me. - Ever your  affectionate,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

HONOLULU, 10TH MAY 1889.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - I am appalled to gather from your last just to  hand that you have felt
so much concern about the letter.  Pray  dismiss it from your mind.  But I think you scarce
appreciate how  disagreeable it is to have your private affairs and private  unguarded expressions
getting into print.  It would soon sicken any  one of writing letters.  I have no doubt that
letter was very  wisely selected, but it just shows how things crop up.  There was a  raging
jealousy between the two yachts; our captain was nearly in a  fight over it.  However, no more;
and whatever you think, my dear  fellow, do not suppose me angry with you or -; although I
was  ANNOYED AT THE CIRCUMSTANCE - a very different thing.  But it is  difficult to conduct
life by letter, and I continually feel I may  be drifting into some matter of offence, in which
my heart takes no  part.

I must now turn to a point of business.  This new cruise of ours is  somewhat venturesome;
and I think it needful to warn you not to be  in a hurry to suppose us dead.  In these ill-charted
seas, it is  quite on the cards we might be cast on some unvisited, or very  rarely visited,
island; that there we might lie for a long time,  even years, unheard of; and yet turn up smiling
at the hinder end.   So do not let me be 'rowpit' till you get some certainty we have  gone
to Davie Jones in a squall, or graced the feast of some  barbarian in the character of Long Pig.

I have just been a week away alone on the lee coast of Hawaii, the  only white creature in
many miles, riding five and a half hours one  day, living with a native, seeing four lepers
shipped off to  Molokai, hearing native causes, and giving my opinion as AMICUS  CURIAE as
to the interpretation of a statute in English; a lovely  week among God's best - at least God's
sweetest works -  Polynesians.  It has bettered me greatly.  If I could only stay  there the
time that remains, I could get my work done and be happy;  but the care of my family keeps
me in vile Honolulu, where I am  always out of sorts, amidst heat and cold and cesspools and
beastly  HAOLES.  What is a haole?  You are one; and so, I am sorry to say,  am I.  After so
long a dose of whites, it was a blessing to get  among Polynesians again even for a week.

Well, Charles, there are waur haoles than yoursel', I'll say that  for ye; and trust before
I sail I shall get another letter with  more about yourself. - Ever your affectionate friend

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

HONOLULU, (ABOUT) 20TH MAY '89.

MY DEAR LOW, - The goods have come; many daughters have done  virtuously, but thou excellest
them all. - I have at length  finished THE MASTER; it has been a sore cross to me; but now
he is  buried, his body's under hatches, - his soul, if there is any hell  to go to, gone to
hell; and I forgive him:  it is harder to forgive  Burlingame for having induced me to begin
the publication, or  myself for suffering the induction. - Yes, I think Hole has done  finely;
it will be one of the most adequately illustrated books of  our generation; he gets the note,
he tells the story - MY story:  I  know only one failure - the Master standing on the beach.
- You  must have a letter for me at Sydney - till further notice.   Remember me to Mrs. Will.
H., the godlike sculptor, and any of the  faithful.  If you want to cease to be a republican,
see my little  Kaiulani, as she goes through - but she is gone already.  You will  die a red,
I wear the colours of that little royal maiden, NOUS  ALLONS CHANTER A LA RONDE, SI VOUS VOULEZ!
only she is not blonde  by several chalks, though she is but a half-blood, and the wrong  half
Edinburgh Scots like mysel'.  But, O Low, I love the  Polynesian:  this civilisation of ours
is a dingy, ungentlemanly  business; it drops out too much of man, and too much of that the
very beauty of the poor beast:  who has his beauties in spite of  Zola and Co.  As usual, here
is a whole letter with no news:  I am  a bloodless, inhuman dog; and no doubt Zola is a better
correspondent. - Long live your fine old English admiral - yours, I  mean - the U.S.A. one
at Samoa; I wept tears and loved myself and  mankind when I read of him:  he is not too much
civilised.  And  there was Gordon, too; and there are others, beyond question.  But  if you
could live, the only white folk, in a Polynesian village;  and drink that warm, light VIN DU
PAYS of human affection, and  enjoy that simple dignity of all about you - I will not gush,
for I  am now in my fortieth year, which seems highly unjust, but there it  is, Mr. Low, and
the Lord enlighten your affectionate

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. R. L. STEVENSON

KALAWAO, MOLOKAI [MAY 1889].

DEAR FANNY, - I had a lovely sail up.  Captain Cameron and Mr.  Gilfillan, both born in the
States, yet the first still with a  strong Highland, and the second still with a strong Lowland
accent,  were good company; the night was warm, the victuals plain but good.   Mr. Gilfillan
gave me his berth, and I slept well, though I heard  the sisters sick in the next stateroom,
poor souls.  Heavy rolling  woke me in the morning; I turned in all standing, so went right
on  the upper deck.  The day was on the peep out of a low morning bank,  and we were wallowing
along under stupendous cliffs.  As the lights  brightened, we could see certain abutments and
buttresses on their  front where wood clustered and grass grew brightly.  But the whole  brow
seemed quite impassable, and my heart sank at the sight.  Two  thousand feet of rock making
19 degrees (the Captain guesses)  seemed quite beyond my powers.  However, I had come so far;
and, to  tell you the truth, I was so cowed with fear and disgust that I  dared not go back
on the adventure in the interests of my own self- respect.  Presently we came up with the leper
promontory:  lowland,  quite bare and bleak and harsh, a little town of wooden houses, two
churches, a landing-stair, all unsightly, sour, northerly, lying  athwart the sunrise, with
the great wall of the pali cutting the  world out on the south.  Our lepers were sent on the
first boat,  about a dozen, one poor child very horrid, one white man, leaving a  large grown
family behind him in Honolulu, and then into the second  stepped the sisters and myself.  I
do not know how it would have  been with me had the sisters not been there.  My horror of the
horrible is about my weakest point; but the moral loveliness at my  elbow blotted all else
out; and when I found that one of them was  crying, poor soul, quietly under her veil, I cried
a little myself;  then I felt as right as a trivet, only a little crushed to be there  so uselessly.
I thought it was a sin and a shame she should feel  unhappy; I turned round to her, and said
something like this:   'Ladies, God Himself is here to give you welcome.  I'm sure it is  good
for me to be beside you; I hope it will be blessed to me; I  thank you for myself and the good
you do me.'  It seemed to cheer  her up; but indeed I had scarce said it when we were at the
landing-stairs, and there was a great crowd, hundreds of (God save  us!) pantomime masks in
poor human flesh, waiting to receive the  sisters and the new patients.

Every hand was offered:  I had gloves, but I had made up my mind on  the boat's voyage NOT
to give my hand; that seemed less offensive  than the gloves.  So the sisters and I went up
among that crew, and  presently I got aside (for I felt I had no business there) and set  off
on foot across the promontory, carrying my wrap and the camera.   All horror was quite gone
from me:  to see these dread creatures  smile and look happy was beautiful.  On my way through
Kalaupapa I  was exchanging cheerful ALOHAS with the patients coming galloping  over on their
horses; I was stopping to gossip at house-doors; I  was happy, only ashamed of myself that
I was here for no good.  One  woman was pretty, and spoke good English, and was infinitely
engaging and (in the old phrase) towardly; she thought I was the  new white patient; and when
she found I was only a visitor, a  curious change came in her face and voice - the only sad
thing,  morally sad, I mean - that I met that morning.  But for all that,  they tell me none
want to leave.  Beyond Kalaupapa the houses  became rare; dry stone dykes, grassy, stony land,
one sick  pandanus; a dreary country; from overhead in the little clinging  wood shogs of the
pali chirruping of birds fell; the low sun was  right in my face; the trade blew pure and cool
and delicious; I  felt as right as ninepence, and stopped and chatted with the  patients whom
I still met on their horses, with not the least  disgust.  About half-way over, I met the superintendent
(a leper)  with a horse for me, and O, wasn't I glad!  But the horse was one  of those curious,
dogged, cranky brutes that always dully want to  go somewhere else, and my traffic with him
completed my crushing  fatigue.  I got to the guest-house, an empty house with several  rooms,
kitchen, bath, etc.  There was no one there, and I let the  horse go loose in the garden, lay
down on the bed, and fell asleep.

Dr. Swift woke me and gave me breakfast, then I came back and slept  again while he was at
the dispensary, and he woke me for dinner;  and I came back and slept again, and he woke me
about six for  supper; and then in about an hour I felt tired again, and came up  to my solitary
guest-house, played the flageolet, and am now  writing to you.  As yet, you see, I have seen
nothing of the  settlement, and my crushing fatigue (though I believe that was  moral and a
measure of my cowardice) and the doctor's opinion make  me think the pali hopeless.  'You don't
look a strong man,' said  the doctor; 'but are you sound?'  I told him the truth; then he 
said it was out of the question, and if I were to get up at all, I  must be carried up.  But,
as it seems, men as well as horses  continually fall on this ascent:  the doctor goes up with
a change  of clothes - it is plain that to be carried would in itself be very  fatiguing to
both mind and body; and I should then be at the  beginning of thirteen miles of mountain road
to be ridden against  time.  How should I come through?  I hope you will think me right  in
my decision:  I mean to stay, and shall not be back in Honolulu  till Saturday, June first.
You must all do the best you can to  make ready.

Dr. Swift has a wife and an infant son, beginning to toddle and  run, and they live here as
composed as brick and mortar - at least  the wife does, a Kentucky German, a fine enough creature,
I  believe, who was quite amazed at the sisters shedding tears!  How  strange is mankind! 
Gilfillan too, a good fellow I think, and far  from a stupid, kept up his hard Lowland Scottish
talk in the boat  while the sister was covering her face; but I believe he knew, and  did it
(partly) in embarrassment, and part perhaps in mistaken  kindness.  And that was one reason,
too, why I made my speech to  them.  Partly, too, I did it, because I was ashamed to do so,
and  remembered one of my golden rules, 'When you are ashamed to speak,  speak up at once.'
But, mind you, that rule is only golden with  strangers; with your own folks, there are other
considerations.   This is a strange place to be in.  A bell has been sounded at  intervals
while I wrote, now all is still but a musical humming of  the sea, not unlike the sound of
telegraph wires; the night is  quite cool and pitch dark, with a small fine rain; one light
over  in the leper settlement, one cricket whistling in the garden, my  lamp here by my bedside,
and my pen cheeping between my inky  fingers.

Next day, lovely morning, slept all night, 80 degrees in the shade,  strong, sweet Anaho trade-wind.

LOUIS.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

HONOLULU, JUNE 1889.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I am just home after twelve days journey to  Molokai, seven of them at the
leper settlement, where I can only  say that the sight of so much courage, cheerfulness, and
devotion  strung me too high to mind the infinite pity and horror of the  sights.  I used to
ride over from Kalawao to Kalaupapa (about three  miles across the promontory, the cliff-wall,
ivied with forest and  yet inaccessible from steepness, on my left), go to the Sisters'  home,
which is a miracle of neatness, play a game of croquet with  seven leper girls (90 degrees
in the shade), got a little old-maid  meal served me by the Sisters, and ride home again, tired
enough,  but not too tired.  The girls have all dolls, and love dressing  them.  You who know
so many ladies delicately clad, and they who  know so many dressmakers, please make it known
it would be an  acceptable gift to send scraps for doll dressmaking to the Reverend  Sister
Maryanne, Bishop Home, Kalaupapa, Molokai, Hawaiian Islands.

I have seen sights that cannot be told, and heard stories that  cannot be repeated:  yet I
never admired my poor race so much, nor  (strange as it may seem) loved life more than in the
settlement.  A  horror of moral beauty broods over the place:  that's like bad  Victor Hugo,
but it is the only way I can express the sense that  lived with me all these days.  And this
even though it was in great  part Catholic, and my sympathies flew never with so much difficulty
as towards Catholic virtues.  The pass-book kept with heaven stirs  me to anger and laughter.
One of the sisters calls the place 'the  ticket office to heaven.'  Well, what is the odds?
They do their  darg and do it with kindness and efficiency incredible; and we must  take folk's
virtues as we find them, and love the better part.  Of  old Damien, whose weaknesses and worse
perhaps I heard fully, I  think only the more.  It was a European peasant:  dirty, bigoted,
untruthful, unwise, tricky, but superb with generosity, residual  candour and fundamental good-humour:
convince him he had done  wrong (it might take hours of insult) and he would undo what he had
done and like his corrector better.  A man, with all the grime and  paltriness of mankind,
but a saint and hero all the more for that.   The place as regards scenery is grand, gloomy,
and bleak.  Mighty  mountain walls descending sheer along the whole face of the island  into
a sea unusually deep; the front of the mountain ivied and  furred with clinging forest, one
viridescent cliff:  about half-way  from east to west, the low, bare, stony promontory edged
in between  the cliff and the ocean; the two little towns (Kalawao and  Kalaupapa) seated on
either side of it, as bare almost as bathing  machines upon a beach; and the population - gorgons
and chimaeras  dire.  All this tear of the nerves I bore admirably; and the day  after I got
away, rode twenty miles along the opposite coast and up  into the mountains:  they call it
twenty, I am doubtful of the  figures:  I should guess it nearer twelve; but let me take credit
for what residents allege; and I was riding again the day after, so  I need say no more about
health.  Honolulu does not agree with me  at all:  I am always out of sorts there, with slight
headache,  blood to the head, etc.  I had a good deal of work to do and did it  with miserable
difficulty; and yet all the time I have been gaining  strength, as you see, which is highly
encouraging.  By the time I  am done with this cruise I shall have the material for a very
singular book of travels:  names of strange stories and characters,  cannibals, pirates, ancient
legends, old Polynesian poetry, - never  was so generous a farrago.  I am going down now to
get the story of  a shipwrecked family, who were fifteen months on an island with a  murderer:
there is a specimen.  The Pacific is a strange place;  the nineteenth century only exists there
in spots:  all round, it  is a no man's land of the ages, a stir-about of epochs and races,
barbarisms and civilisations, virtues and crimes.

It is good of you to let me stay longer, but if I had known how ill  you were, I should be
now on my way home.  I had chartered my  schooner and made all arrangements before (at last)
we got definite  news.  I feel highly guilty; I should be back to insult and worry  you a little.
Our address till further notice is to be c/o R.  Towns and Co., Sydney.  That is final:  I
only got the arrangement  made yesterday; but you may now publish it abroad. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO JAMES PAYN

HONOLULU, H.I., JUNE 13TH, 1889.

MY DEAR JAMES PAYN, - I get sad news of you here at my offsetting  for further voyages:  I
wish I could say what I feel.  Sure there  was never any man less deserved this calamity; for
I have heard you  speak time and again, and I remember nothing that was unkind,  nothing that
was untrue, nothing that was not helpful, from your  lips.  It is the ill-talkers that should
hear no more.  God knows,  I know no word of consolation; but I do feel your trouble.  You
are  the more open to letters now; let me talk to you for two pages.  I  have nothing but happiness
to tell; and you may bless God you are a  man so sound-hearted that (even in the freshness
of your calamity)  I can come to you with my own good fortune unashamed and secure of  sympathy.
It is a good thing to be a good man, whether deaf or  whether dumb; and of all our fellow-craftsmen
(whom yet they count  a jealous race), I never knew one but gave you the name of honesty  and
kindness:  come to think of it gravely, this is better than the  finest hearing.  We are all
on the march to deafness, blindness,  and all conceivable and fatal disabilities; we shall
not all get  there with a report so good.  My good news is a health  astonishingly reinstated.
This climate; these voyagings; these  landfalls at dawn; new islands peaking from the morning
bank; new  forested harbours; new passing alarms of squalls and surf; new  interests of gentle
natives, - the whole tale of my life is better  to me than any poem.

I am fresh just now from the leper settlement of Molokai, playing  croquet with seven leper
girls, sitting and yarning with old,  blind, leper beachcombers in the hospital, sickened with
the  spectacle of abhorrent suffering and deformation amongst the  patients, touched to the
heart by the sight of lovely and effective  virtues in their helpers:  no stranger time have
I ever had, nor  any so moving.  I do not think it a little thing to be deaf, God  knows, and
God defend me from the same! - but to be a leper, of one  of the self-condemned, how much more
awful! and yet there's a way  there also.  'There are Molokais everywhere,' said Mr. Dutton,
Father Damien's dresser; you are but new landed in yours; and my  dear and kind adviser, I
wish you, with all my soul, that patience  and courage which you will require.  Think of me
meanwhile on a  trading schooner, bound for the Gilbert Islands, thereafter for the  Marshalls,
with a diet of fish and cocoanut before me; bound on a  cruise of - well, of investigation
to what islands we can reach,  and to get (some day or other) to Sydney, where a letter addressed
to the care of R. Towns & Co. will find me sooner or later; and if  it contain any good news,
whether of your welfare or the courage  with which you bear the contrary, will do me good.
- Yours  affectionately (although so near a stranger),

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

SCHOONER 'EQUATOR,' APAIANG LAGOON, AUGUST 22ND, 1889.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - The missionary ship is outside the reef trying  (vainly) to get in; so I
may have a chance to get a line off.  I am  glad to say I shall be home by June next for the
summer, or we  shall know the reason why.  For God's sake be well and jolly for  the meeting.
I shall be, I believe, a different character from  what you have seen this long while.  This
cruise is up to now a  huge success, being interesting, pleasant, and profitable.  The  beachcomber
is perhaps the most interesting character here; the  natives are very different, on the whole,
from Polynesians:  they  are moral, stand-offish (for good reasons), and protected by a dark
tongue.  It is delightful to meet the few Hawaiians (mostly  missionaries) that are dotted
about, with their Italian BRIO and  their ready friendliness.  The whites are a strange lot,
many of  them good, kind, pleasant fellows; others quite the lowest I have  ever seen even
in the slums of cities.  I wish I had time to  narrate to you the doings and character of three
white murderers  (more or less proven) I have met.  One, the only undoubted assassin  of the
lot, quite gained my affection in his big home out of a  wreck, with his New Hebrides wife
in her savage turban of hair and  yet a perfect lady, and his three adorable little girls in
Rob Roy  Macgregor dresses, dancing to the hand organ, performing circus on  the floor with
startling effects of nudity, and curling up together  on a mat to sleep, three sizes, three
attitudes, three Rob Roy  dresses, and six little clenched fists:  the murderer meanwhile 
brooding and gloating over his chicks, till your whole heart went  out to him; and yet his
crime on the face of it was dark:   disembowelling, in his own house, an old man of seventy,
and him  drunk.

It is lunch-time, I see, and I must close up with my warmest love  to you.  I wish you were
here to sit upon me when required.  Ah! if  you were but a good sailor!  I will never leave
the sea, I think;  it is only there that a Briton lives:  my poor grandfather, it is  from
him I inherit the taste, I fancy, and he was round many  islands in his day; but I, please
God, shall beat him at that  before the recall is sounded.  Would you be surprised to learn
that  I contemplate becoming a shipowner?  I do, but it is a secret.   Life is far better fun
than people dream who fall asleep among the  chimney stacks and telegraph wires.

Love to Henry James and others near. - Ever yours, my dear fellow,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

EQUATOR TOWN,  APEMAMA, OCTOBER 1889.

No MORNING STAR came, however; and so now I try to send this to you  by the schooner J. L.
TIERNAN.  We have been about a month ashore,  camping out in a kind of town the king set up
for us:  on the idea  that I was really a 'big chief' in England.  He dines with us  sometimes,
and sends up a cook for a share of our meals when he  does not come himself.  This sounds like
high living! alas,  undeceive yourself.  Salt junk is the mainstay; a low island,  except for
cocoanuts, is just the same as a ship at sea:  brackish  water, no supplies, and very little
shelter.  The king is a great  character - a thorough tyrant, very much of a gentleman, a poet,
a  musician, a historian, or perhaps rather more a genealogist - it is  strange to see him
lying in his house among a lot of wives (nominal  wives) writing the History of Apemama in
an account-book; his  description of one of his own songs, which he sang to me himself,  as
'about sweethearts, and trees, and the sea - and no true, all- the-same lie,' seems about as
compendious a definition of lyric  poetry as a man could ask.  Tembinoka is here the great
attraction:   all the rest is heat and tedium and villainous dazzle, and yet more  villainous
mosquitoes.  We are like to be here, however, many a  long week before we get away, and then
whither?  A strange trade  this voyaging:  so vague, so bound-down, so helpless.  Fanny has
been planting some vegetables, and we have actually onions and  radishes coming up:  ah, onion-despiser,
were you but awhile in a  low island, how your heart would leap at sight of a coster's  barrow!
I think I could shed tears over a dish of turnips.  No  doubt we shall all be glad to say farewell
to low islands - I had  near said for ever.  They are very tame; and I begin to read up the
directory, and pine for an island with a profile, a running brook,  or were it only a well
among the rocks.  The thought of a mango  came to me early this morning and set my greed on
edge; but you do  not know what a mango is, so -.

I have been thinking a great deal of you and the Monument of late,  and even tried to get my
thoughts into a poem, hitherto without  success.  God knows how you are:  I begin to weary
dreadfully to  see you - well, in nine months, I hope; but that seems a long time.   I wonder
what has befallen me too, that flimsy part of me that  lives (or dwindles) in the public mind;
and what has befallen THE  MASTER, and what kind of a Box the Merry Box has been found.  It
is  odd to know nothing of all this.  We had an old woman to do devil- work for you about a
month ago, in a Chinaman's house on Apaiang  (August 23rd or 24th).  You should have seen the
crone with a noble  masculine face, like that of an old crone [SIC], a body like a  man's (naked
all but the feathery female girdle), knotting cocoanut  leaves and muttering spells:  Fanny
and I, and the good captain of  the EQUATOR, and the Chinaman and his native wife and sister-in-
law, all squatting on the floor about the sibyl; and a crowd of  dark faces watching from behind
her shoulder (she sat right in the  doorway) and tittering aloud with strange, appalled, embarrassed
laughter at each fresh adjuration.  She informed us you were in  England, not travelling and
now no longer sick; she promised us a  fair wind the next day, and we had it, so I cherish
the hope she  was as right about Sidney Colvin.  The shipownering has rather  petered out since
I last wrote, and a good many other plans beside.

Health?  Fanny very so-so; I pretty right upon the whole, and  getting through plenty work:
I know not quite how, but it seems to  me not bad and in places funny.

South Sea Yarns:

1. THE WRECKER       }
                     }     R. L. S.
2. THE PEARL FISHER  } by    and
                     }     Lloyd O.
3. THE BEACHCOMBERS  }

THE PEARL FISHER, part done, lies in Sydney.  It is THE WRECKER we  are now engaged upon: 
strange ways of life, I think, they set  forth:  things that I can scarce touch upon, or even
not at all, in  my travel book; and the yarns are good, I do believe.  THE PEARL  FISHER is
for the NEW YORK LEDGER:  the yarn is a kind of Monte  Cristo one.  THE WRECKER is the least
good as a story, I think; but  the characters seem to me good.  THE BEACHCOMBERS is more  sentimental.
These three scarce touch the outskirts of the life we  have been viewing; a hot-bed of strange
characters and incidents:   Lord, how different from Europe or the Pallid States!  Farewell.
Heaven knows when this will get to you.  I burn to be in Sydney and  have news.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

SCHOONER 'EQUATOR,' AT SEA. 190 MILES OFF SAMOA.  MONDAY, DECEMBER  2ND, 1889

MY DEAR COLVIN, - We are just nearing the end of our long cruise.   Rain, calms, squalls, bang
- there's the foretopmast gone; rain,  calm, squalls, away with the staysail; more rain, more
calm, more  squalls; a prodigious heavy sea all the time, and the EQUATOR  staggering and hovering
like a swallow in a storm; and the cabin, a  great square, crowded with wet human beings, and
the rain  avalanching on the deck, and the leaks dripping everywhere:  Fanny,  in the midst
of fifteen males, bearing up wonderfully.  But such  voyages are at the best a trial.  We had
one particularity:  coming  down on Winslow Reef, p. d. (position doubtful):  two positions
in  the directory, a third (if you cared to count that) on the chart;  heavy sea running, and
the night due.  The boats were cleared,  bread put on board, and we made up our packets for
a boat voyage of  four or five hundred miles, and turned in, expectant of a crash.   Needless
to say it did not come, and no doubt we were far to  leeward.  If we only had twopenceworth
of wind, we might be at  dinner in Apia to-morrow evening; but no such luck:  here we roll,
dead before a light air - and that is no point of sailing at all  for a fore and aft schooner
- the sun blazing overhead, thermometer  88 degrees, four degrees above what I have learned
to call South  Sea temperature; but for all that, land so near, and so much grief  being happily
astern, we are all pretty gay on board, and have been  photographing and draught-playing and
sky-larking like anything.  I  am minded to stay not very long in Samoa and confine my studies
there (as far as any one can forecast) to the history of the late  war.  My book is now practically
modelled:  if I can execute what  is designed, there are few better books now extant on this
globe,  bar the epics, and the big tragedies, and histories, and the choice  lyric poetics
and a novel or so - none.  But it is not executed  yet; and let not him that putteth on his
armour, vaunt himself.  At  least, nobody has had such stuff; such wild stories, such beautiful
scenes, such singular intimacies, such manners and traditions, so  incredible a mixture of
the beautiful and horrible, the savage and  civilised.  I will give you here some idea of the
table of  contents, which ought to make your mouth water.  I propose to call  the book THE
SOUTH SEAS:  it is rather a large title, but not many  people have seen more of them than I,
perhaps no one - certainly no  one capable of using the material.

PART I.  GENERAL.  'OF SCHOONERS, ISLANDS, AND MAROONS.'

CHAPTER I. Marine.

II. Contraband (smuggling, barratry, labour traffic).

III. The Beachcomber.

IV. Beachcomber stories.  i. The Murder of the Chinaman.  ii. Death  of a Beachcomber.  iii.
A Character.  iv. The Apia Blacksmith.

PART II.  THE MARQUESAS.

V. Anaho.  i. Arrival.  ii. Death.  iii. The Tapu.  iv. Morals.  v.  Hoka.

VI. Tai-o-hae.  i. Arrival.  ii. The French.  iii. The Royal  Family.  iv. Chiefless Folk.
v. The Catholics.  vi. Hawaiian  Missionaries.

VII. Observations of a Long Pig.  i. Cannibalism.  ii. Hatiheu.   iii. Frere Michel.  iv. 
Toahauka and Atuona.  v. The Vale of  Atuona.  vi. Moipu.  vii. Captain Hati.

PART III.  THE DANGEROUS ARCHIPELAGO.

VIII. The Group.

IX. A House to let in a Low Island.

X. A Paumotuan Funeral.  i. The Funeral.  ii. Tales of the Dead.

PART IV.  TAHITI.

XI. Tautira.

XII. Village Government in Tahiti.

XIII. A Journey in Quest of Legends.

XIV. Legends and Songs.

XV. Life in Eden.

XVI. Note on the French Regimen.

PART V.  THE EIGHT ISLANDS.

XVII. A Note on Missions.

XVIII. The Kona Coast of Hawaii.  i. Hookena.  ii. A Ride in the  Forest.  iii. A Law Case.
iv. The City of Refuge.  v. The Lepers.

XIX. Molokai.  i. A Week in the Precinct.  ii. History of the Leper  Settlement.  iii. The
Mokolii.  iv. The Free Island.

PART VI.  THE GILBERTS.

XX. The Group.  ii. Position of Woman.  iii. The Missions.  iv.  Devilwork.  v. Republics.

XXI. Rule and Misrule on Makin.  i. Butaritari, its King and Court.   ii. History of Three
Kings.  iii. The Drink Question.

XXII. A Butaritarian Festival.

XXIII. The King of Apemama.  i. First Impressions.  ii. Equator  Town and the Palace.  iii.
The Three Corselets.

PART VII.  SAMOA.

which I have not yet reached.

Even as so sketched it makes sixty chapters, not less than 300  CORNHILL pages; and I suspect
not much under 500.  Samoa has yet to  be accounted for:  I think it will be all history, and
I shall work  in observations on Samoan manners, under the similar heads in other  Polynesian
islands.  It is still possible, though unlikely, that I  may add a passing visit to Fiji or
Tonga, or even both; but I am  growing impatient to see yourself, and I do not want to be later
than June of coming to England.  Anyway, you see it will be a large  work, and as it will be
copiously illustrated, the Lord knows what  it will cost.  We shall return, God willing, by
Sydney, Ceylon,  Suez and, I guess, Marseilles the many-masted (copyright epithet).   I shall
likely pause a day or two in Paris, but all that is too far  ahead - although now it begins
to look near - so near, and I can  hear the rattle of the hansom up Endell Street, and see
the gates  swing back, and feel myself jump out upon the Monument steps -  Hosanna! - home
again.  My dear fellow, now that my father is done  with his troubles, and 17 Heriot Row no
more than a mere shell, you  and that gaunt old Monument in Bloomsbury are all that I have
in  view when I use the word home; some passing thoughts there may be  of the rooms at Skerryvore,
and the black-birds in the chine on a  May morning; but the essence is S. C. and the Museum.
Suppose, by  some damned accident, you were no more:  well, I should return just  the same,
because of my mother and Lloyd, whom I now think to send  to Cambridge; but all the spring
would have gone out of me, and  ninety per cent. of the attraction lost.  I will copy for you
here  a copy of verses made in Apemama.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

SCHOONER 'EQUATOR,' AT SEA, WEDNESDAY, 4TH DECEMBER 1889.

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - We are now about to rise, like whales, from  this long dive, and I make
ready a communication which is to go to  you by the first mail from Samoa.  How long we shall
stay in that  group I cannot forecast; but it will be best still to address at  Sydney, where
I trust, when I shall arrive, perhaps in one month  from now, more probably in two or three,
to find all news.

BUSINESS. - Will you be likely to have a space in the Magazine for  a serial story, which should
be, ready, I believe, by April, at  latest by autumn?  It is called THE WRECKER; and in book
form will  appear as number 1 of South Sea Yarns by R. L. S. and Lloyd  Osbourne.  Here is
the table as far as fully conceived, and indeed  executed. ...

The story is founded on fact, the mystery I really believe to be  insoluble; the purchase of
a wreck has never been handled before,  no more has San Francisco.  These seem all elements
of success.   There is, besides, a character, Jim Pinkerton, of the advertising  American,
on whom we build a good deal; and some sketches of the  American merchant marine, opium smuggling
in Honolulu, etc.  It  should run to (about) three hundred pages of my MS.  I would like  to
know if this tale smiles upon you, if you will have a vacancy,  and what you will be willing
to pay.  It will of course be  copyright in both the States and England.  I am a little anxious
to  have it tried serially, as it tests the interest of the mystery.

PLEASURE. - We have had a fine time in the Gilbert group, though  four months on low islands,
which involves low diet, is a largish  order; and my wife is rather down.  I am myself, up
to now, a  pillar of health, though our long and vile voyage of calms,  squalls, cataracts
of rain, sails carried away, foretopmast lost,  boats cleared and packets made on the approach
of a p. d. reef,  etc., has cured me of salt brine, and filled me with a longing for  beef
steak and mangoes not to be depicted.  The interest has been  immense.  Old King Tembinoka
of Apemama, the Napoleon of the group,  poet, tyrant, altogether a man of mark, gave me the
woven corselets  of his grandfather, his father and his uncle, and, what pleased me  more,
told me their singular story, then all manner of strange  tales, facts and experiences for
my South Sea book, which should be  a Tearer, Mr. Burlingame:  no one at least has had such stuff.

We are now engaged in the hell of a dead calm, the heat is cruel -  it is the only time when
I suffer from heat:  I have nothing on but  a pair of serge trousers, and a singlet without
sleeves of Oxford  gauze - O, yes, and a red sash about my waist; and yet as I sit  here in
the cabin, sweat streams from me.  The rest are on deck  under a bit of awning; we are not
much above a hundred miles from  port, and we might as well be in Kamschatka.  However, I should
be  honest:  this is the first calm I have endured without the added  bane of a heavy swell,
and the intoxicated blue-bottle wallowings  and knockings of the helpless ship.

I wonder how you liked the end of THE MASTER; that was the hardest  job I ever had to do; did
I do it?

My wife begs to be remembered to yourself and Mrs. Burlingame.   Remember all of us to all
friends, particularly Low, in case I  don't get a word through for him. - I am, yours very
sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

SAMOA, [DECEMBER 1889].

MY DEAR BAXTER, - . . . I cannot return until I have seen either  Tonga or Fiji or both:  and
I must not leave here till I have  finished my collections on the war - a very interesting
bit of  history, the truth often very hard to come at, and the search (for  me) much complicated
by the German tongue, from the use of which I  have desisted (I suppose) these fifteen years.
The last two days I  have been mugging with a dictionary from five to six hours a day;  besides
this, I have to call upon, keep sweet, and judiciously  interview all sorts of persons - English,
American, German, and  Samoan.  It makes a hard life; above all, as after every interview 
I have to come and get my notes straight on the nail.  I believe I  should have got my facts
before the end of January, when I shall  make our Tonga or Fiji.  I am down right in the hurricane
season;  but they had so bad a one last year, I don't imagine there will be  much of an edition
this.  Say that I get to Sydney some time in  April, and I shall have done well, and be in
a position to write a  very singular and interesting book, or rather two; for I shall  begin,
I think, with a separate opuscule on the Samoan Trouble,  about as long as KIDNAPPED, not very
interesting, but valuable -  and a thing proper to be done.  And then, hey! for the big South
Sea Book:  a devil of a big one, and full of the finest sport.

This morning as I was going along to my breakfast a little before  seven, reading a number
of BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE, I was startled by  a soft TALOFA, ALII (note for my mother:  they
are quite courteous  here in the European style, quite unlike Tahiti), right in my ear:   it
was Mataafa coming from early mass in his white coat and white  linen kilt, with three fellows
behind him.  Mataafa is the nearest  thing to a hero in my history, and really a fine fellow;
plenty  sense, and the most dignified, quiet, gentle manners.  Talking of  BLACKWOOD - a file
of which I was lucky enough to find here in the  lawyer's - Mrs. Oliphant seems in a staggering
state:  from the  WRONG BOX to THE MASTER I scarce recognise either my critic or  myself. 
I gather that THE MASTER should do well, and at least that  notice is agreeable reading.  I
expect to be home in June:  you  will have gathered that I am pretty well.  In addition to
my  labours, I suppose I walk five or six miles a day, and almost every  day I ride up and
see Fanny and Lloyd, who are in a house in the  bush with Ah Fu.  I live in Apia for history's
sake with Moors, an  American trader.  Day before yesterday I was arrested and fined for  riding
fast in the street, which made my blood bitter, as the wife  of the manager of the German Firm
has twice almost ridden me down,  and there seems none to say her nay.  The Germans have behaved
pretty badly here, but not in all ways so ill as you may have  gathered:  they were doubtless
much provoked; and if the insane  Knappe had not appeared upon the scene, might have got out
of the  muddle with dignity.  I write along without rhyme or reason, as  things occur to me.

I hope from my outcries about printing you do not think I want you  to keep my news or letters
in a Blue Beard closet.  I like all  friends to hear of me; they all should if I had ninety
hours in the  day, and strength for all of them; but you must have gathered how  hard worked
I am, and you will understand I go to bed a pretty  tired man.

29TH DECEMBER, [1889].

To-morrow (Monday, I won't swear to my day of the month; this is  the Sunday between Christmas
and New Year) I go up the coast with  Mr. Clarke, one of the London Society missionaries, in
a boat to  examine schools, see Tamasese, etc.  Lloyd comes to photograph.   Pray Heaven we
have good weather; this is the rainy season; we  shall be gone four or five days; and if the
rain keep off, I shall  be glad of the change; if it rain, it will be beastly.  This  explains
still further how hard pressed I am, as the mail will be  gone ere I return, and I have thus
lost the days I meant to write  in.  I have a boy, Henry, who interprets and copies for me,
and is  a great nuisance.  He said he wished to come to me in order to  learn 'long expressions.'
Henry goes up along with us; and as I am  not fond of him, he may before the trip is over hear
some 'strong  expressions.'  I am writing this on the back balcony at Moors',  palms and a
hill like the hill of Kinnoull looking in at me; myself  lying on the floor, and (like the
parties in Handel's song) 'clad  in robes of virgin white'; the ink is dreadful, the heat delicious,
a fine going breeze in the palms, and from the other side of the  house the sudden angry splash
and roar of the Pacific on the reef,  where the warships are still piled from last year's hurricane,
some  under water, one high and dry upon her side, the strangest figure  of a ship was ever
witnessed; the narrow bay there is full of  ships; the men-of-war covered with sail after the
rains, and  (especially the German ship, which is fearfully and awfully top  heavy) rolling
almost yards in, in what appears to be calm water.

Samoa, Apia at least, is far less beautiful than the Marquesas or  Tahiti:  a more gentle scene,
gentler acclivities, a tamer face of  nature; and this much aided, for the wanderer, by the
great German  plantations with their countless regular avenues of palms.  The  island has beautiful
rivers, of about the bigness of our waters in  the Lothians, with pleasant pools and waterfalls
and overhanging  verdure, and often a great volume of sound, so that once I thought  I was
passing near a mill, and it was only the voice of the river.   I am not specially attracted
by the people; but they are courteous;  the women very attractive, and dress lovely; the men
purposelike,  well set up, tall, lean, and dignified.  As I write the breeze is  brisking up,
doors are beginning to slam:  and shutters; a strong  draught sweeps round the balcony; it
looks doubtful for to-morrow.   Here I shut up. - Ever your affectionate,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO DR. SCOTT

APIA, SAMOA, JANUARY 20TH, 1890.

MY DEAR SCOTT, - Shameful indeed that you should not have heard of  me before!  I have now
been some twenty months in the South Seas,  and am (up to date) a person whom you would scarce
know.  I think  nothing of long walks and rides:  I was four hours and a half gone  the other
day, partly riding, partly climbing up a steep ravine.  I  have stood a six months' voyage
on a copra schooner with about  three months ashore on coral atolls, which means (except for
cocoanuts to drink) no change whatever from ship's food.  My wife  suffered badly - it was
too rough a business altogether - Lloyd  suffered - and, in short, I was the only one of the
party who 'kept  my end up.'

I am so pleased with this climate that I have decided to settle;  have even purchased a piece
of land from three to four hundred  acres, I know not which till the survey is completed, and
shall  only return next summer to wind up my affairs in England;  thenceforth I mean to be
a subject of the High Commissioner.

Now you would have gone longer yet without news of your truant  patient, but that I have a
medical discovery to communicate.  I  find I can (almost immediately) fight off a cold with
liquid  extract of coca; two or (if obstinate) three teaspoonfuls in the  day for a variable
period of from one to five days sees the cold  generally to the door.  I find it at once produces
a glow, stops  rigour, and though it makes one very uncomfortable, prevents the  advance of
the disease.  Hearing of this influenza, it occurred to  me that this might prove remedial;
and perhaps a stronger  exhibition - injections of cocaine, for instance - still better.

If on my return I find myself let in for this epidemic, which seems  highly calculated to nip
me in the bud, I shall feel very much  inclined to make the experiment.  See what a gulf you
may save me  from if you shall have previously made it on ANIMA VILI, on some  less important
sufferer, and shall have found it worse than  useless.

How is Miss Boodle and her family?  Greeting to your brother and  all friends in Bournemouth,
yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

FEBRUAR DEN 3EN 1890. DAMPFER LUBECK ZWISCHEN APIA UND SYDNEY.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - I have got one delightful letter from you, and  heard from my mother of
your kindness in going to see her.  Thank  you for that:  you can in no way more touch and
serve me. . . . Ay,  ay, it is sad to sell 17; sad and fine were the old days:  when I  was
away in Apemama, I wrote two copies of verse about Edinburgh  and the past, so ink black, so
golden bright.  I will send them, if  I can find them, for they will say something to you,
and indeed one  is more than half addressed to you.

They're pretty second-rate, but felt.  I can't be bothered to copy  the other.

I have bought 314 and a half acres of beautiful land in the bush  behind Apia; when we get
the house built, the garden laid, and  cattle in the place, it will be something to fall back
on for  shelter and food; and if the island could stumble into political  quiet, it is conceivable
it might even bring a little income. . . .  We range from 600 to 1500 feet, have five streams,
waterfalls,  precipices, profound ravines, rich tablelands, fifty head of cattle  on the ground
(if any one could catch them), a great view of  forest, sea, mountains, the warships in the
haven:  really a noble  place.  Some day you are to take a long holiday and come and see  us:
it has been all planned.

With all these irons in the fire, and cloudy prospects, you may be  sure I was pleased to hear
a good account of business.  I believed  THE MASTER was a sure card:  I wonder why Henley thinks
it grimy;  grim it is, God knows, but sure not grimy, else I am the more  deceived.  I am sorry
he did not care for it; I place it on the  line with KIDNAPPED myself.  We'll see as time goes
on whether it  goes above or falls below.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

SS. LUBECK, [BETWEEN APIA AND SYDNEY, FEBRUARY] 1890.

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - I desire nothing better than to continue my  relation with the Magazine,
to which it pleases me to hear I have  been useful.  The only thing I have ready is the enclosed
barbaric  piece.  As soon as I have arrived in Sydney I shall send you some  photographs, a
portrait of Tembinoka, perhaps a view of the palace  or of the 'matted men' at their singing;
also T.'s flag, which my  wife designed for him:  in a word, what I can do best for you.  It
will be thus a foretaste of my book of travels.  I shall ask you to  let me have, if I wish
it, the use of the plates made, and to make  up a little tract of the verses and illustrations,
of which you  might send six copies to H. M. Tembinoka, King of Apemama VIA  Butaritari, Gilbert
Islands.  It might be best to send it by  Crawford and Co., S. F.  There is no postal service;
and schooners  must take it, how they may and when.

R. L. S.

You will have received from me a letter about THE WRECKER.  No  doubt it is a new experiment
for me, being disguised so much as a  study of manners, and the interest turning on a mystery
of the  detective sort, I think there need be no hesitation about beginning  it in the fall
of the year.  Lloyd has nearly finished his part,  and I shall hope to send you very soon the
MS. of about the first  four-sevenths.  At the same time, I have been employing myself in 
Samoa, collecting facts about the recent war; and I propose to  write almost at once and to
publish shortly a small volume, called  I know not what - the War In Samoa, the Samoa Trouble,
an Island  War, the War of the Three Consuls, I know not - perhaps you can  suggest.  It was
meant to be a part of my travel book; but material  has accumulated on my hands until I see
myself forced into volume  form, and I hope it may be of use, if it come soon.  I have a few
photographs of the war, which will do for illustrations.  It is  conceivable you might wish
to handle this in the Magazine, although  I am inclined to think you won't, and to agree with
you.  But if  you think otherwise, there it is.  The travel letters (fifty of  them) are already
contracted for in papers; these I was quite bound  to let M'Clure handle, as the idea was of
his suggestion, and I  always felt a little sore as to one trick I played him in the  matter
of the end-papers.  The war-volume will contain some very  interesting and picturesque details:
more I can't promise for it.   Of course the fifty newspaper letters will be simply patches
chosen  from the travel volume (or volumes) as it gets written.

But you see I have in hand:-

Say half done.  1. THE WRECKER.

Lloyd's copy half done, mine not touched.  2. THE PEARL FISHER (a  novel promised to the LEDGER,
and which will form, when it comes in  book form, No. 2 of our SOUTH SEA YARNS).

Not begun, but all material ready.  3. THE WAR VOLUME.

Ditto.  4. THE BIG TRAVEL BOOK, which includes the letters.

You know how they stand.  5. THE BALLADS.

EXCUSEZ DU PEU!  And you see what madness it would be to make any  fresh engagement.  At the
same time, you have THE WRECKER and the  WAR VOLUME, if you like either - or both - to keep
my name in the  Magazine.

It begins to look as if I should not be able to get any more  ballads done this somewhile.
I know the book would sell better if  it were all ballads; and yet I am growing half tempted
to fill up  with some other verses.  A good few are connected with my voyage,  such as the
'Home of Tembinoka' sent herewith, and would have a  sort of slight affinity to the SOUTH SEA
BALLADS.  You might tell  me how that strikes a stranger.

In all this, my real interest is with the travel volume, which  ought to be of a really extraordinary
interest

I am sending you 'Tembinoka' as he stands; but there are parts of  him that I hope to better,
particularly in stanzas III. and II.  I  scarce feel intelligent enough to try just now; and
I thought at  any rate you had better see it, set it up if you think well, and  let me have
a proof; so, at least, we shall get the bulk of it  straight.  I have spared you Tenkoruti,
Tenbaitake, Tembinatake,  and other barbarous names, because I thought the dentists in the
States had work enough without my assistance; but my chiefs name is  TEMBINOKA, pronounced,
according to the present quite modern habit  in the Gilberts, Tembinok'.  Compare in the margin
Tengkorootch; a  singular new trick, setting at defiance all South Sea analogy, for  nowhere
else do they show even the ability, far less the will, to  end a word upon a consonant.  Loia
is Lloyd's name, ship becomes  shipe, teapot, tipote, etc.  Our admirable friend Herman Melville,
of whom, since I could judge, I have thought more than ever, had no  ear for languages whatever:
his Hapar tribe should be Hapaa, etc.

But this is of no interest to you:  suffice it, you see how I am as  usual up to the neck in
projects, and really all likely bairns this  time.  When will this activity cease?  Too soon
for me, I dare to  say.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO JAMES PAYN

FEBRUARY 4TH, 1890, SS. 'LUBECK.'

MY DEAR JAMES PAYN, - In virtue of confessions in your last, you  would at the present moment,
if you were along of me, be sick; and  I will ask you to receive that as an excuse for my hand
of write.   Excuse a plain seaman if he regards with scorn the likes of you  pore land-lubbers
ashore now.  (Reference to nautical ditty.)   Which I may however be allowed to add that when
eight months' mail  was laid by my side one evening in Apia, and my wife and I sat up  the
most of the night to peruse the same - (precious indisposed we  were next day in consequence)
- no letter, out of so many, more  appealed to our hearts than one from the pore, stick-in-the-mud,
land-lubbering, common (or garden) Londoner, James Payn.  Thank you  for it; my wife says,
'Can't I see him when we get back to London?'   I have told her the thing appeared to me within
the spear of  practical politix.  (Why can't I spell and write like an honest,  sober, god-fearing
litry gent?  I think it's the motion of the  ship.)  Here I was interrupted to play chess with
the chief  engineer; as I grow old, I prefer the 'athletic sport of cribbage,'  of which (I
am sure I misquote) I have just been reading in your  delightful LITERARY RECOLLECTIONS.  How
you skim along, you and  Andrew Lang (different as you are), and yet the only two who can 
keep a fellow smiling every page, and ever and again laughing out  loud.  I joke wi' deeficulty,
I believe; I am not funny; and when I  am, Mrs. Oliphant says I'm vulgar, and somebody else
says (in  Latin) that I'm a whore, which seems harsh and even uncalled for:   I shall stick
to weepers; a 5s. weeper, 2s. 6d. laugher, 1s.  shocker.

My dear sir, I grow more and more idiotic; I cannot even feign  sanity.  Sometime in the month
of June a stalwart weather-beaten  man, evidently of seafaring antecedents, shall be observed
wending  his way between the Athenaeum Club and Waterloo Place.  Arrived off  No. 17, he shall
be observed to bring his head sharply to the wind,  and tack into the outer haven.  'Captain
Payn in the harbour?' -  'Ay, ay, sir.  What ship?' - 'Barquentin R. L. S., nine hundred and
odd days out from the port of Bournemouth, homeward bound, with  yarns and curiosities.'

Who was it said, 'For God's sake, don't speak of it!' about Scott  and his tears?  He knew
what he was saying.  The fear of that hour  is the skeleton in all our cupboards; that hour
when the pastime  and the livelihood go together; and - I am getting hard of hearing  myself;
a pore young child of forty, but new come frae my Mammy, O!

Excuse these follies, and accept the expression of all my regards.  - Yours affectionately,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

UNION CLUB, SYDNEY, MARCH 7TH, 1890.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - I did not send off the enclosed before from  laziness; having gone quite
sick, and being a blooming prisoner  here in the club, and indeed in my bedroom.  I was in
receipt of  your letters and your ornamental photo, and was delighted to see  how well you
looked, and how reasonably well I stood. . . . I am  sure I shall never come back home except
to die; I may do it, but  shall always think of the move as suicidal, unless a great change
comes over me, of which as yet I see no symptom.  This visit to  Sydney has smashed me handsomely;
and yet I made myself a prisoner  here in the club upon my first arrival.  This is not encouraging
for further ventures; Sydney winter - or, I might almost say,  Sydney spring, for I came when
the worst was over - is so small an  affair, comparable to our June depression at home in Scotland.
. .  . The pipe is right again; it was the springs that had rusted, and  ought to have been
oiled.  Its voice is now that of an angel; but,  Lord! here in the club I dare not wake it!
Conceive my impatience  to be in my own backwoods and raise the sound of minstrelsy.  What
pleasures are to be compared with those of the Unvirtuous Virtuoso.  - Yours ever affectionately,
the Unvirtuous Virtuoso,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

SS.  'JANET NICOLL,' OFF UPOLU [SPRING 1890].

MY DEAREST COLVIN, - I was sharply ill at Sydney, cut off, right  out of bed, in this steamer
on a fresh island cruise, and have  already reaped the benefit.  We are excellently found this
time, on  a spacious vessel, with an excellent table; the captain,  supercargo, our one fellow-passenger,
etc., very nice; and the  charterer, Mr. Henderson, the very man I could have chosen.  The
truth is, I fear, this life is the only one that suits me; so long  as I cruise in the South
Seas, I shall be well and happy - alas,  no, I do not mean that, and ABSIT OMEN! - I mean that,
so soon as I  cease from cruising, the nerves are strained, the decline  commences, and I steer
slowly but surely back to bedward.  We left  Sydney, had a cruel rough passage to Auckland,
for the JANET is the  worst roller I was ever aboard of.  I was confined to my cabin,  ports
closed, self shied out of the berth, stomach (pampered till  the day I left on a diet of perpetual
egg-nogg) revolted at ship's  food and ship eating, in a frowsy bunk, clinging with one hand
to  the plate, with the other to the glass, and using the knife and  fork (except at intervals)
with the eyelid.  No matter:  I picked  up hand over hand.  After a day in Auckland, we set
sail again;  were blown up in the main cabin with calcium fires, as we left the  bay.  Let
no man say I am unscientific:  when I ran, on the alert,  out of my stateroom, and found the
main cabin incarnadined with the  glow of the last scene of a pantomime, I stopped dead:  'What
is  this?' said I.  'This ship is on fire, I see that; but why a  pantomime?'  And I stood
and reasoned the point, until my head was  so muddled with the fumes that I could not find
the companion.  A  few seconds later, the captain had to enter crawling on his belly,  and
took days to recover (if he has recovered) from the fumes.  By  singular good fortune, we got
the hose down in time and saved the  ship, but Lloyd lost most of his clothes and a great part
of our  photographs was destroyed.  Fanny saw the native sailors tossing  overboard a blazing
trunk; she stopped them in time, and behold, it  contained my manuscripts.  Thereafter we had
three (or two) days  fine weather:  then got into a gale of wind, with rain and a  vexatious
sea.  As we drew into our anchorage in a bight of Savage  Island, a man ashore told me afterwards
the sight of the JANET  NICOLL made him sick; and indeed it was rough play, though nothing
to the night before.  All through this gale I worked four to six  hours per diem, spearing
the ink-bottle like a flying fish, and  holding my papers together as I might.  For, of all
things, what I  was at was history - the Samoan business - and I had to turn from  one to another
of these piles of manuscript notes, and from one  page to another in each, until I should have
found employment for  the hands of Briareus.  All the same, this history is a godsend for 
a voyage; I can put in time, getting events co-ordinated and the  narrative distributed, when
my much-heaving numskull would be  incapable of finish or fine style.  At Savage we met the
missionary  barque JOHN WILLIAMS.  I tell you it was a great day for Savage  Island:  the path
up the cliffs was crowded with gay islandresses  (I like that feminine plural) who wrapped
me in their embraces, and  picked my pockets of all my tobacco, with a manner which a touch
would have made revolting, but as it was, was simply charming, like  the Golden Age.  One pretty,
little, stalwart minx, with a red  flower behind her ear, had searched me with extraordinary
zeal; and  when, soon after, I missed my matches, I accused her (she still  following us) of
being the thief.  After some delay, and with a  subtle smile, she produced the box, gave me
ONE MATCH, and put the  rest away again.  Too tired to add more. - Your most affectionate,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

S.S. 'JANET NICOLL,' OFF PERU ISLAND, KINGSMILLS GROUP, JULY 13th,  '90.

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - I am moved to write to you in the matter of  the end papers.  I am somewhat
tempted to begin them again.  Follow  the reasons PRO and CON:-

1st.  I must say I feel as if something in the nature of the end  paper were a desirable finish
to the number, and that the  substitutes of occasional essays by occasional contributors somehow
fail to fill the bill.  Should you differ with me on this point, no  more is to be said.  And
what follows must be regarded as lost  words.

2nd.  I am rather taken with the idea of continuing the work.  For  instance, should you have
no distaste for papers of the class  called RANDOM MEMORIES, I should enjoy continuing them
(of course  at intervals), and when they were done I have an idea they might  make a readable
book.  On the other hand, I believe a greater  freedom of choice might be taken, the subjects
more varied and more  briefly treated, in somewhat approaching the manner of Andrew Lang  in
the SIGN OF THE SHIP; it being well understood that the broken  sticks method is one not very
suitable (as Colonel Burke would say)  to my genius, and not very likely to be pushed far in
my practice.   Upon this point I wish you to condense your massive brain.  In the  last lot
I was promised, and I fondly expected to receive, a vast  amount of assistance from intelligent
and genial correspondents.  I  assure you, I never had a scratch of a pen from any one above
the  level of a village idiot, except once, when a lady sowed my head  full of grey hairs by
announcing that she was going to direct her  life in future by my counsels.  Will the correspondents
be more  copious and less irrelevant in the future?  Suppose that to be the  case, will they
be of any use to me in my place of exile?  Is it  possible for a man in Samoa to be in touch
with the great heart of  the People?  And is it not perhaps a mere folly to attempt, from so
hopeless a distance, anything so delicate as a series of papers?   Upon these points, perpend,
and give me the results of your  perpensions.

3rd.  The emolument would be agreeable to your humble servant.

I have now stated all the PROS, and the most of the CONS are come  in by the way.  There follows,
however, one immense Con (with a  capital 'C'), which I beg you to consider particularly. 
I fear  that, to be of any use for your magazine, these papers should begin  with the beginning
of a volume.  Even supposing my hands were free,  this would be now impossible for next year.
You have to consider  whether, supposing you have no other objection, it would be worth  while
to begin the series in the middle of a volume, or desirable  to delay the whole matter until
the beginning of another year.

Now supposing that the CONS have it, and you refuse my offer, let  me make another proposal,
which you will be very inclined to refuse  at the first off-go, but which I really believe
might in time come  to something.  You know how the penny papers have their answers to  correspondents.
Why not do something of the same kind for the  'culchawed'?  Why not get men like Stimson,
Brownell, Professor  James, Goldwin Smith, and others who will occur to you more readily  than
to me, to put and to answer a series of questions of  intellectual and general interest, until
at last you should have  established a certain standard of matter to be discussed in this 
part of the Magazine?

I want you to get me bound volumes of the Magazine from its start.   The Lord knows I have
had enough copies; where they are I know not.   A wandering author gathers no magazines.

THE WRECKER is in no forrader state than in last reports.  I have  indeed got to a period when
I cannot well go on until I can refresh  myself on the proofs of the beginning.  My respected
collaborator,  who handles the machine which is now addressing you, has indeed  carried his
labours farther, but not, I am led to understand, with  what we used to call a blessing; at
least, I have been refused a  sight of his latest labours.  However, there is plenty of time
ahead, and I feel no anxiety about the tale, except that it may  meet with your approval.

All this voyage I have been busy over my TRAVELS, which, given a  very high temperature and
the saloon of a steamer usually going  before the wind, and with the cabins in front of the
engines, has  come very near to prostrating me altogether.  You will therefore  understand
that there are no more poems.  I wonder whether there  are already enough, and whether you
think that such a volume would  be worth the publishing?  I shall hope to find in Sydney some
expression of your opinion on this point.  Living as I do among -  not the most cultured of
mankind ('splendidly educated and perfect  gentlemen when sober') - I attach a growing importance
to friendly  criticisms from yourself.

