 It was conveyed through the same kind of passage, and
put to the same use as the other; and I should imagine they are both from the same source,
which, though hitherto undiscovered, must be at a considerable distance, as the mountain is
continued for several leagues to the westward, without exhibiting the least signs of water
in any other part. But, exclusive of the subterranean conduits, both these streams must have
been conveyed through aqueducts extending from hence to Cemenelion over steep rocks and deep
ravines, at a prodigious expence. The water from this source du temple, issues from a stone
building which covers the passage in the rock. It serves to turn several olive, corn, and paper
mills, being conveyed through a modern aqueduct raised upon paultry arcades at the expence
of the public, and afterwards is branched off in very small streams, for the benefit of this
parched and barren country. The Romans were so used to bathing, that they could not exist without
a great quantity of water; and this, I imagine, is one reason that induced them to spare no
labour and expence in bringing it from a distance, when they had not plenty of it at home.
But, besides this motive, they had another: they were so nice and delicate in their taste of
water, that they took great pains to supply themselves with the purest and lightest from afar,
for drinking and culinary uses, even while they had plenty of an inferior sort for their bath,
and other domestic purposes. There are springs of good water on the spot where Cemenelion stood:
but there is a hardness in all well-water, which quality is deposited in running a long course,
especially, if exposed to the influence of the sun and air. The Romans, therefore, had good
reason to soften and meliorate this element, by conveying it a good length of way in open aqueducts.
What was used in the baths of Cemenelion, they probably brought in leaden pipes, some of which
have been dug up very lately by accident. You must know, I made a second excursion to these
antient ruins, and measured the arena of the amphitheatre with packthread. It is an oval figure;
the longest diameter extending to about one hundred and thirteen feet, and the shortest to
eighty-eight; but I will not answer for the exactness of the measurement. In the center of
it, there was a square stone, with an iron ring, to which I suppose the wild beasts were tied,
to prevent their springing upon the spectators. Some of the seats remain, the two opposite
entrances, consisting each of one large gate, and two lateral smaller doors, arched: there
is also a considerable portion of the external wall; but no columns, or other ornaments of
architecture. Hard by, in the garden of the count de Gubernatis, I saw the remains of a bath,
fronting the portal of the temple, which I have described in a former letter; and here were
some shafts of marble pillars, particularly a capital of the Corinthian order beautifully cut,
of white alabaster. Here the count found a large quantity of fine marble, which he has converted
to various uses; and some mutilated statues, bronze as well as marble. The peasant shewed me
some brass and silver medals, which he has picked up at different times in labouring the ground;
together with several oblong beads of coloured glass, which were used as ear-rings by the Roman
ladies; and a small seal of agate, very much defaced. Two of the medals were of Maximian and
Gallienus; the rest were so consumed, that I could not read the legend. You know, that on public
occasions, such as games, and certain sacrifices, handfuls of medals were thrown among the
people; a practice, which accounts for the great number which have been already found in this
district. I saw some subterranean passages, which seemed to have been common sewers; and a
great number of old walls still standing along the brink of a precipice, which overhangs the
Paglion. The peasants tell me, that they never dig above a yard in depth, without finding vaults
or cavities. All the vineyards and garden-grounds, for a considerable extent, are vaulted underneath;
and all the ground that produces their grapes, fruit, and garden-stuff, is no more than the
crumpled lime and rubbish of old Roman buildings, mixed with manure brought from Nice. This
antient town commanded a most noble prospect of the sea; but is altogether inaccessible by
any kind of wheel carriage. If you make shift to climb to it on horseback, you cannot descend
to the plain again, without running the risk of breaking your neck.

About seven or eight miles on the other side of Nice, are the remains of another Roman monument
which has greatly suffered from the barbarity of successive ages. It was a trophy erected by
the senate of Rome, in honour of Augustus Caesar, when he had totally subdued all the ferocious
nations of these Maritime Alps; such as the Trumpilini Camuni, Vennontes, Isnarci, Breuni,
etc. It stands upon the top of a mountain which overlooks the town of Monaco, and now exhibits
the appearance of an old ruined tower. There is a description of what it was, in an Italian
manuscript, by which it appears to have been a beautiful edifice of two stories, adorned with
columns and trophies in alto-relievo, with a statue of Augustus Caesar on the top. On one of
the sides was an inscription, some words of which are still legible, upon the fragment of a
marble found close to the old building: but the whole is preserved in Pliny, who gives it,
in these words, lib. iii. cap. 20.

  IMPERATORI CAESARI DIVI. F. AVG. PONT.
  MAX. IMP. XIV. TRIBVNIC. POTEST. XVIII.
  S. P. Q. R.
  QVODEIVSDVCTV, AVSPICIISQ. GENIES ALPINAE OMNES,
  QVAE A MARI SVPERO AD INFERVM PERTINEBANT, SVB
  IMPERIVM PO. RO. SUNT REDAC. GENTES ALPINAE DEVICTAE.
  TRVMPILINI CAMVNI, VENNONETES, ISNARCI, BREVNI,
  NAVNES, FOCVNATES, VINDELICORVM GENTES QVATVOR,
  CONSVANETES, VIRVCINATES, LICATES, CATENATES, ABI-
  SONTES, RVGVSCI, SVANETES, CALVCONES, BRIXENTES,
  LEPONTII, VIBERI, NANTVATES, SEDVNI, VERAGRI,
  SALASSI, ACITAVONES MEDVLLI, VCINI, CATVRIGES,
  BRIGIANI, SOGIVNTII, NEMALONES, EDENETES,
  ESVBIANI, VEAMINI, GALLITAE, TRIVLLATI,
  ECTINI, VERGVNNI, EGVITVRI. NEMENTVRI,
  ORATELLI, NERVSCI, VELAVNI, SVETRI.

This Trophy is erected by the Senate and People of Rome to the Emperor Caesar Augustus, son
of the divine Julius, in the fourteenth year of his imperial Dignity, and in the eighteenth
of his Tribunician Power, because under his command and auspices all the nations of the Alps
from the Adriatic to the Tuscanian Sea, were reduced under the Dominion of Rome. The Alpine
nations subdued were the Trumpelini, etc.

Pliny, however, is mistaken in placing this inscription on a trophy near the Augusta praetoria,
now called Aosta, in Piedmont: where, indeed, there is a triumphal arch, but no inscription.
This noble monument of antiquity was first of all destroyed by fire; and afterwards, in Gothic
times, converted into a kind of fortification. The marbles belonging to it were either employed
in adorning the church of the adjoining village, which is still called Turbia, a corruption
of Trophaea; [This was formerly a considerable town called Villa Martis, and pretends to the
honour of having given birth to Aulus Helvius, who succeeded Commodus as emperor of Rome, by
the name of Pertinax which he acquired from his obstinate refusal of that dignity, when it
was forced upon him by the senate. You know this man, though of very low birth, possessed many
excellent qualities, and was basely murdered by the praetorian guards, at the instigation of
Didius Tulianus. For my part, I could never read without emotion, that celebrated eulogium
of the senate who exclaimed after his death, Pertinace, imperante, securi viximus neminem timuimus,
patre pio, patre senatus, patre omnium, honorum, We lived secure and were afraid of nothing
under the Government of Pertinax, our affectionate Father, Father of the Senate, Father to
all the children of Virtue.] or converted into tomb-stones, or carried off to be preserved
in one or two churches of Nice. At present, the work has the appearance of a ruinous watch-tower,
with Gothic battlements; and as such stands undistinguished by those who travel by sea from
hence to Genoa, and other ports of Italy. I think I have now described all the antiquities
in the neighbourhood of Nice, except some catacombs or caverns, dug in a rock at St. Hospice,
which Busching, in his geography, has described as a strong town and seaport, though in fact,
there is not the least vestige either of town or village. It is a point of land almost opposite
to the tower of Turbia, with the mountains of which it forms a bay, where there is a great
and curious fishery of the tunny fish, farmed of the king of Sardinia. Upon this point there
is a watch-tower still kept in repair, to give notice to the people in the neighbourhood, in
case any Barbary corsairs should appear on the coast. The catacombs were in all probability
dug, in former times, as places of retreat for the inhabitants upon sudden descents of the
Saracens, who greatly infested these seas for several successive centuries. Many curious persons
have entered them and proceeded a considerable way by torch-light, without arriving at the
further extremity; and the tradition of the country is, that they reach as far as the ancient
city of Cemenelion; but this is an idle supposition, almost as ridiculous as that which ascribes
them to the labour and ingenuity of the fairies: they consist of narrow subterranean passages,
vaulted with stone and lined with cement. Here and there one finds detached apartments like
small chambers, where I suppose the people remained concealed till the danger was over. Diodorus
Siculus tells us, that the antient inhabitants of this country usually lived under ground.
"Ligures in terra cubant ut plurimum; plures ad cava, saxa speluncasque ab natura factas ubi
tegantur corpora divertunt," "The Ligurians mostly lie on the bare ground; many of them lodge
in bare Caves and Caverns where they are sheltered from the inclemency of the weather." This
was likewise the custom of the Troglodytae, a people bordering upon Aethiopia who, according
to Aelian, lived in subterranean caverns; from whence, indeed they took their name trogli,
signifying a cavern; and Virgil, in his Georgics, thus describes the Sarmatae,

  Ipsi in defossis specubus, secura sub alta
  Ocia agunt terra.--

  In Subterranean Caves secure they lie
  Nor heed the transient seasons as they fly.

These are dry subjects; but such as the country affords. If we have not white paper, we must
snow with brown. Even that which I am now scrawling may be useful, if, not entertaining: it
is therefore the more confidently offered by--Dear Sir, Yours affectionately.

LETTER XVII

NICE, July 2, 1764.

DEAR SIR,--Nice was originally a colony from Marseilles. You know the Phocians (if we may believe
Justin and Polybius) settled in Gaul, and built Marseilles, during the reign of Tarquinius
Priscus at Rome. This city flourished to such a degree, that long before the Romans were in
a condition to extend their dominion, it sent forth colonies, and established them along the
coast of Liguria. Of these, Nice, or Nicaea, was one of the most remarkable; so called, in
all probability, from the Greek word Nike, signifying Victoria, in consequence of some important
victory obtained over the Salii and Ligures, who were the antient inhabitants of this country.
Nice, with its mother city, being in the sequel subdued by the Romans, fell afterwards successively
under the dominion of the Goths, Burgundians, and Franks, the kings of Arles, and the kings
of Naples, as counts of Provence. In the year one thousand three hundred and eighty-eight,
the city and county of Nice being but ill protected by the family of Durazzo, voluntarily surrendered
themselves to Amadaeus, surnamed the Red, duke of Savoy; and since that period, they have continued
as part of that potentate's dominions, except at such times as they have been over-run and
possessed by the power of France, which hath always been a troublesome neighbour to this country.
The castle was begun by the Arragonian counts of Provence, and afterwards enlarged by several
successive dukes of Savoy, so as to be deemed impregnable, until the modern method of besieging
began to take place. A fruitless attempt was made upon it in the year one thousand five hundred
and forty-three, by the French and Turks in conjunction: but it was reduced several times after
that period, and is now in ruins. The celebrated engineer Vauban, being commanded by Louis
XIV to give in a plan for fortifying Nice, proposed, that the river Paglion should be turned
into a new channel, so as to surround the town to the north, and fall into the harbour; that
where the Paglion now runs to the westward of the city walls, there should be a deep ditch
to be filled with sea-water; and that a fortress should be built to the westward of this fosse.
These particulars might be executed at no very great expence; but, I apprehend, they would
be ineffectual, as the town is commanded by every hill in the neighbourhood; and the exhalations
from stagnating sea-water would infallibly render the air unwholesome. Notwithstanding the
undoubted antiquity of Nice, very few monuments of that antiquity now remain. The inhabitants
say, they were either destroyed by the Saracens in their successive descents upon the coast,
by the barbarous nations in their repeated incursions, or used in fortifying the castle, as
well as in building other edifices. The city of Cemenelion, however, was subject to the same
disasters, and even entirely ruined, nevertheless, we still find remains of its antient splendor.
There have been likewise a few stones found at Nice, with antient inscriptions; but there is
nothing of this kind standing, unless we give the name of antiquity to a marble cross on the
road to Provence, about half a mile from the city. It stands upon a pretty high pedestal with
steps, under a pretty stone cupola or dome, supported by four Ionic pillars, on the spot where
Charles V. emperor of Germany, Francis I. of France, and pope Paul II. agreed to have a conference,
in order to determine all their disputes. The emperor came hither by sea, with a powerful fleet,
and the French king by land, at the head of a numerous army. All the endeavours of his holiness,
however, could not effect a peace; but they agreed to a truce of ten years. Mezerai affirms,
that these two great princes never saw one another on this occasion; and that this shyness
was owing to the management of the pope, whose private designs might have been frustrated,
had they come to a personal interview. In the front of the colonade, there is a small stone,
with an inscription in Latin, which is so high, and so much defaced, that I cannot read it.

In the sixteenth century there was a college erected at Nice, by Emanuel Philibert, duke of
Savoy, for granting degrees to students of law; and in the year one thousand six hundred and
fourteen, Charles Emanuel I. instituted the senate of Nice; consisting of a president, and
a certain number of senators, who are distinguished by their purple robes, and other ensigns
of authority. They administer justice, having the power of life and death, not only through
the whole county of Nice, but causes are evoked from Oneglia, and some other places, to their
tribunal, which is the dernier ressort, from whence there is no appeal. The commandant, however,
by virtue of his military power and unrestricted authority, takes upon him to punish individuals
by imprisonment, corporal pains, and banishment, without consulting the senate, or indeed,
observing any form of trial. The only redress against any unjust exercise of this absolute
power, is by complaint to the king; and you know, what chance a poor man has for being redressed
in this manner.

With respect to religion, I may safely say, that here superstition reigns under the darkest
shades of ignorance and prejudice. I think there are ten convents and three nunneries within
and without the walls of Nice; and among them all, I never could hear of one man who had made
any tolerable advances in any kind of human learning. All ecclesiastics are exempted from any
exertion of civil power, being under the immediate protection and authority of the bishop,
or his vicar. The bishop of Nice is suffragan of the archbishop of Ambrun in France; and the
revenues of the see amount to between five and six hundred pounds sterling. We have likewise
an office of the inquisition, though I do not hear that it presumes to execute any acts of
jurisdiction, without the king's special permission. All the churches are sanctuaries for all
kinds of criminals, except those guilty of high treason; and the priests are extremely jealous
of their privileges in this particular. They receive, with open arms, murderers, robbers, smugglers,
fraudulent bankrupts, and felons of every denomination; and never give them up, until after
having stipulated for their lives and liberty. I need not enlarge upon the pernicious consequences
of this infamous prerogative, calculated to raise and extend the power and influence of the
Roman church, on the ruins of morality and good order.

Nice abounds with noblesse, marquisses, counts, and barons. Of these, three or four families
are really respectable: the rest are novi homines, sprung from Bourgeois, who have saved a
little money by their different occupations, and raised themselves to the rank of noblesse
by purchase. One is descended from an avocat; another from an apothecary; a third from a retailer
of wine, a fourth from a dealer in anchovies; and I am told, there is actually a count at Villefranche,
whose father sold macaroni in the streets. A man in this country may buy a marquisate, or a
county, for the value of three or four hundred pounds sterling, and the title follows the fief;
but he may purchase lettres de noblesse for about thirty or forty guineas. In Savoy, there
are six hundred families of noblesse; the greater part of which have not above one hundred
crowns a year to maintain their dignity. In the mountains of Piedmont, and even in this country
of Nice, there are some representatives of very antient and noble families, reduced to the
condition of common peasants; but they still retain the antient pride of their houses, and
boast of the noble blood that runs in their veins. A gentleman told me, that in travelling
through the mountains, he was obliged to pass a night in the cottage of one of these rusticated
nobles, who called to his son in the evening, "Chevalier, as-tu donne a manger aux cochons?"
"Have you fed the Hogs, Sir Knight?" This, however, is not the case with the noblesse of Nice.
Two or three of them have about four or five hundred a year: the rest, in general, may have
about one hundred pistoles, arising from the silk, oil, wine, and oranges, produced in their
small plantations, where they have also country houses. Some few of these are well built, commodious,
and situated; but, for the most part, they are miserable enough. Our noblesse, notwithstanding
their origin, and the cheap rate at which their titles have been obtained, are nevertheless
extremely tenacious of their privileges, very delicate in maintaining the etiquette, and keep
at a very stately distance from the Bourgeoisie. How they live in their families, I do not
choose to enquire; but, in public, Madame appears in her robe of gold, or silver stuff, with
her powder and frisure, her perfumes, her paint and her patches; while Monsieur Le Comte struts
about in his lace and embroidery. Rouge and fard are more peculiarly necessary in this country,
where the complexion and skin are naturally swarthy and yellow. I have likewise observed, that
most of the females are pot-bellied; a circumstance owing, I believe, to the great quantity
of vegetable trash which they eat. All the horses, mules, asses, and cattle, which feed upon
grass, have the same distension. This kind of food produces such acid juices in the stomach,
as excite a perpetual sense of hunger. I have been often amazed at the voracious appetites
of these people. You must not expect that I should describe the tables and the hospitality
of our Nissard gentry. Our consul, who is a very honest man, told me, he had lived four and
thirty years in the country, without having once eat or drank in any of their houses.

The noblesse of Nice cannot leave the country without express leave from the king; and this
leave, when obtained, is for a limited time, which they dare not exceed, on pain of incurring
his majesty's displeasure. They must, therefore, endeavour to find amusements at home; and
this, I apprehend, would be no easy task for people of an active spirit or restless disposition.
True it is, the religion of the country supplies a never-failing fund of pastime to those who
have any relish for devotion; and this is here a prevailing taste. We have had transient visits
of a puppet-shew, strolling musicians, and rope-dancers; but they did not like their quarters,
and decamped without beat of drum. In the summer, about eight or nine at night, part of the
noblesse may be seen assembled in a place called the Pare; which is, indeed, a sort of a street
formed by a row of very paltry houses on one side, and on the other, by part of the town-wall,
which screens it from a prospect of the sea, the only object that could render it agreeable.
Here you may perceive the noblesse stretched in pairs upon logs of wood, like so many seals
upon the rocks by moon-light, each dame with her cicisbeo: for, you must understand, this Italian
fashion prevails at Nice among all ranks of people; and there is not such a passion as jealousy
known. The husband and the cicisbeo live together as sworn brothers; and the wife and the mistress
embrace each other with marks of the warmest affection. I do not choose to enter into particulars.
I cannot open the scandalous chronicle of Nice, without hazard of contamination. With respect
to delicacy and decorum, you may peruse dean Swift's description of the Yahoos, and then you
will have some idea of the porcheria, that distinguishes the gallantry of Nice. But the Pare
is not the only place of public resort for our noblesse in a summer's evening. Just without
one of our gates, you will find them seated in ditches on the highway side, serenaded with
the croaking of frogs, and the bells and braying of mules and asses continually passing in
a perpetual cloud of dust. Besides these amusements, there is a public conversazione every
evening at the commandant's house called the Government, where those noble personages play
at cards for farthings. In carnival time, there is also, at this same government, a ball twice
or thrice a week, carried on by subscription. At this assembly every person, without distinction,
is permitted to dance in masquerade: but, after dancing, they are obliged to unmask, and if
Bourgeois, to retire. No individual can give a ball, without obtaining a permission and guard
of the commandant; and then his house is open to all masques, without distinction, who are
provided with tickets, which tickets are sold by the commandant's secretary, at five sols a-piece,
and delivered to the guard at the door. If I have a mind to entertain my particular friends,
I cannot have more than a couple of violins; and, in that case, it is called a conversazione.

Though the king of Sardinia takes all opportunities to distinguish the subjects of Great-Britain
with particular marks of respect, I have seen enough to be convinced, that our nation is looked
upon with an evil eye by the people of Nice; and this arises partly from religious prejudices,
and partly from envy, occasioned by a ridiculous notion of our superior wealth. For my own
part, I owe them nothing on the score of civilities; and therefore, I shall say nothing more
on the subject, lest I should be tempted to deviate from that temperance and impartiality which
I would fain hope have hitherto characterised the remarks of,-- Dear Sir, your faithful, humble
servant.

LETTER XVIII

NICE, September 2, 1764.

DEAR DOCTOR,--I wrote in May to Mr. B-- at Geneva, and gave him what information he desired
to have, touching the conveniences of Nice. I shall now enter into the same detail, for the
benefit of such of your friends or patients, as may have occasion to try this climate.

The journey from Calais to Nice, of four persons in a coach, or two post-chaises, with a servant
on horseback, travelling post, may be performed with ease, for about one hundred and twenty
pounds, including every expence. Either at Calais or at Paris, you will always find a travelling
coach or berline, which you may buy for thirty or forty guineas, and this will serve very well
to reconvey you to your own country.

In the town of Nice, you will find no ready-furnished lodgings for a whole family. Just without
one of the gates, there are two houses to be let, ready-furnished, for about five loui'dores
per month. As for the country houses in this neighbourhood, they are damp in winter, and generally
without chimnies; and in summer they are rendered uninhabitable by the heat and the vermin.
If you hire a tenement in Nice, you must take it for a year certain; and this will cost you
about twenty pounds sterling. For this price, I have a ground floor paved with brick, consisting
of a kitchen, two large halls, a couple of good rooms with chimnies, three large closets that
serve for bed-chambers, and dressing-rooms, a butler's room, and three apartments for servants,
lumber or stores, to which we ascend by narrow wooden stairs. I have likewise two small gardens,
well stocked with oranges, lemons, peaches, figs, grapes, corinths, sallad, and pot-herbs.
It is supplied with a draw-well of good water, and there is another in the vestibule of the
house, which is cool, large, and magnificent. You may hire furniture for such a tenement for
about two guineas a month: but I chose rather to buy what was necessary; and this cost me about
sixty pounds. I suppose it will fetch me about half the money when I leave the place. It is
very difficult to find a tolerable cook at Nice. A common maid, who serves the people of the
country, for three or four livres a month, will not live with an English family under eight
or ten. They are all slovenly, slothful, and unconscionable cheats. The markets at Nice are
tolerably well supplied. Their beef, which comes from Piedmont, is pretty good, and we have
it all the year. In the winter we have likewise excellent pork, and delicate lamb; but the
mutton is indifferent. Piedmont, also, affords us delicious capons, fed with maize; and this
country produces excellent turkeys, but very few geese. Chickens and pullets are extremely
meagre. I have tried to fatten them, without success. In summer they are subject to the pip,
and die in great numbers. Autumn and winter are the seasons for game; hares, partridges, quails,
wild-pigeons, woodcocks, snipes, thrushes, beccaficas, and ortolans. Wild-boar is sometimes
found in the mountains: it has a delicious taste, not unlike that of the wild hog in Jamaica;
and would make an excellent barbecue, about the beginning of winter, when it is in good case:
but, when meagre, the head only is presented at tables. Pheasants are very scarce. As for the
heath-game, I never saw but one cock, which my servant bought in the market, and brought home;
but the commandant's cook came into my kitchen, and carried it of, after it was half plucked,
saying, his master had company to dinner. The hares are large, plump, and juicy. The partridges
are generally of the red sort; large as pullets, and of a good flavour: there are also some
grey partridges in the mountains; and another sort of a white colour, that weigh four or five
pounds each. Beccaficas are smaller than sparrows, but very fat, and they are generally eaten
half raw. The best way of dressing them is to stuff them into a roll, scooped of it's crum;
to baste them well with butter, and roast them, until they are brown and crisp. The ortolans
are kept in cages, and crammed, until they die of fat, then eaten as dainties. The thrush is
presented with the trail, because the bird feeds on olives. They may as well eat the trail
of a sheep, because it feeds on the aromatic herbs of the mountain. In the summer, we have
beef, veal, and mutton, chicken, and ducks; which last are very fat, and very flabby. All the
meat is tough in this season, because the excessive heat, and great number of flies, will not
admit of its being kept any time after it is killed. Butter and milk, though not very delicate,
we have all the year. Our tea and fine sugar come from Marseilles, at a very reasonable price.

Nice is not without variety of fish; though they are not counted so good in their kinds as
those of the ocean. Soals, and flat-fish in general, are scarce. Here are some mullets, both
grey and red. We sometimes see the dory, which is called St Pierre; with rock-fish, bonita,
and mackarel. The gurnard appears pretty often; and there is plenty of a kind of large whiting,
which eats pretty well; but has not the delicacy of that which is caught on our coast. One
of the best fish of this country, is called Le Loup, about two or three pounds in weight; white,
firm, and well-flavoured. Another, no-way inferior to it, is the Moustel, about the same size;
of a dark-grey colour, and short, blunt snout; growing thinner and flatter from the shoulders
downwards, so as to resemble a soal at the tail. This cannot be the mustela of the antients,
which is supposed to be the sea lamprey. Here too are found the vyvre, or, as we call it, weaver;
remarkable for its long, sharp spines, so dangerous to the fingers of the fishermen. We have
abundance of the saepia, or cuttle-fish, of which the people in this country make a delicate
ragout; as also of the polype de mer, which is an ugly animal, with long feelers, like tails,
which they often wind about the legs of the fishermen. They are stewed with onions, and eat
something like cow-heel. The market sometimes affords the ecrivisse de mer, which is a lobster
without claws, of a sweetish taste; and there are a few rock oysters, very small and very rank.
Sometimes the fishermen find under water, pieces of a very hard cement, like plaister of Paris,
which contain a kind of muscle, called la datte, from its resemblance to a date. These petrifactions
are commonly of a triangular form and may weigh about twelve or fifteen pounds each and one
of them may contain a dozen of these muscles which have nothing extraordinary in the taste
or flavour, though extremely curious, as found alive and juicy, in the heart of a rock, almost
as hard as marble, without any visible communication with the air or water. I take it for granted,
however, that the inclosing cement is porous, and admits the finer parts of the surrounding
fluid. In order to reach the muscles, this cement must be broke with large hammers; and it
may be truly said, the kernal is not worth the trouble of cracking the shell. [These are found
in great plenty at Ancona and other parts of the Adriatic, where they go by the name of Bollani,
as we are informed by Keysler.] Among the fish of this country, there is a very ugly animal
of the eel species, which might pass for a serpent: it is of a dusky, black colour, marked
with spots of yellow, about eighteen inches, or two feet long. The Italians call it murena;
but whether it is the fish which had the same name among the antient Romans, I cannot pretend
to determine. The antient murena was counted a great delicacy, and was kept in ponds for extraordinary
occasions. Julius Caesar borrowed six thousand for one entertainment: but I imagined this was
the river lamprey. The murena of this country is in no esteem, and only eaten by the poor people.

Craw-fish and trout are rarely found in the rivers among the mountains. The sword-fish is much
esteemed in Nice, and called l'empereur, about six or seven feet long: but I have never seen
it. [Since I wrote the above letter, I have eaten several times of this fish, which is as white
as the finest veal, and extremely delicate. The emperor associates with the tunny fish, and
is always taken in their company.] They are very scarce; and when taken, are generally concealed,
because the head belongs to the commandant, who has likewise the privilege of buying the best
fish at a very low price. For which reason, the choice pieces are concealed by the fishermen,
and sent privately to Piedmont or Genoa. But, the chief fisheries on this coast are of the
sardines, anchovies, and tunny. These are taken in small quantities all the year; but spring
and summer is the season when they mostly abound. In June and July, a fleet of about fifty
fishing-boats puts to sea every evening about eight o'clock, and catches anchovies in immense
quantities. One small boat sometimes takes in one night twenty-five rup, amounting to six hundred
weight; but it must be observed, that the pound here, as well as in other parts of Italy, consists
but of twelve ounces. Anchovies, besides their making a considerable article in the commerce
of Nice, are a great resource in all families. The noblesse and burgeois sup on sallad and
anchovies, which are eaten on all their meagre days. The fishermen and mariners all along this
coast have scarce any other food but dry bread, with a few pickled anchovies; and when the
fish is eaten, they rub their crusts with the brine. Nothing can be more delicious than fresh
anchovies fried in oil: I prefer them to the smelts of the Thames. I need not mention, that
the sardines and anchovies are caught in nets; salted, barrelled, and exported into all the
different kingdoms and states of Europe. The sardines, however, are largest and fattest in
the month of September. A company of adventurers have farmed the tunny-fishery of the king,
for six years; a monopoly, for which they pay about three thousand pounds sterling. They are
at a very considerable expence for nets, boats, and attendance. Their nets are disposed in
a very curious manner across the small bay of St. Hospice, in this neighbourhood, where the
fish chiefly resort. They are never removed, except in the winter, and when they want repair:
but there are avenues for the fish to enter, and pass, from one inclosure to another. There
is a man in a boat, who constantly keeps watch. When he perceives they are fairly entered,
he has a method for shutting all the passes, and confining the fish to one apartment of the
net, which is lifted up into the boat, until the prisoners are taken and secured. The tunny-fish
generally runs from fifty to one hundred weight; but some of them are much larger. They are
immediately gutted, boiled, and cut in slices. The guts and head afford oil: the slices are
partly dried, to be eaten occasionally with oil and vinegar, or barrelled up in oil, to be
exported. It is counted a delicacy in Italy and Piedmont, and tastes not unlike sturgeon. The
famous pickle of the ancients, called garum, was made of the gills and blood of the tunny,
or thynnus. There is a much more considerable fishery of it in Sardinia, where it is said to
employ four hundred persons; but this belongs to the duc de St. Pierre. In the neighbourhood
of Villa Franca, there are people always employed in fishing for coral and sponge, which grow
adhering to the rocks under water. Their methods do not favour much of ingenuity. For the coral,
they lower down a swab, composed of what is called spunyarn on board our ships of war, hanging
in distinct threads, and sunk by means of a great weight, which, striking against the coral
in its descent, disengages it from the rocks; and some of the pieces being intangled among
the threads of the swab, are brought up with it above water. The sponge is got by means of
a cross-stick, fitted with hooks, which being lowered down, fastens upon it, and tears it from
the rocks. In some parts of the Adriatic and Archipelago, these substances are gathered by
divers, who can remain five minutes below water. But I will not detain you one minute longer;
though I must observe, that there is plenty of fine samphire growing along all these rocks,
neglected and unknown.--Adieu.

LETTER XIX

NICE, October 10, 1764.

DEAR SIR,--Before I tell you the price of provisions at Nice, it will be necessary to say something
of the money. The gold coin of Sardinia consists of the doppia di savoia, value twenty-four
livres Piedmontese, about the size of a loui'dore; and the mezzo doppia, or piece of twelve
livres. In silver, there is the scudo of six livres, the mezzo scudo of three; and the quarto,
or pezza di trenta soldi: but all these are very scarce. We seldom see any gold and silver
coin, but the loui'dore, and the six, and three-livre Pieces of France; a sure sign that the
French suffer by their contraband commerce with the Nissards. The coin chiefly used at market
is a piece of copper silvered, that passes for seven sols and a half; another of the same sort,
valued two sols and a half. They have on one side the impression of the king's head; and on
the other, the arms of Savoy, with a ducal crown, inscribed with his name and titles. There
are of genuine copper, pieces of one sol, stamped on one side with a cross fleuree; and on
the reverse, with the king's cypher and crown, inscribed as the others: finally, there is another
small copper piece, called piccalon, the sixth part of a sol, with a plain cross, and on the
reverse, a slip-knot surmounted with a crown; the legend as above. The impression and legend
on the gold and silver coins, are the same as those on the pieces of seven sols and a half.
The livre of Piedmont consists of twenty sols, and is very near of the same value as an English
shilling: ten sols, therefore, are equal to six-pence sterling. Butcher's meat in general sells
at Nice for three sols a pound; and veal is something dearer: but then there are but twelve
ounces in the pound, which being allowed for, sixteen ounces, come for something less than
twopence halfpenny English. Fish commonly sells for four sols the twelve ounces, or five for
the English pound; and these five are equivalent to three-pence of our money: but sometimes
we are obliged to pay five, and even six sols for the Piedmontese pound of fish. A turkey that
would sell for five or six shillings at the London market, costs me but three at Nice. I can
buy a good capon for thirty sols, or eighteen-pence; and the same price I pay for a brace of
partridges, or a good hare. I can have a woodcock for twenty-four sols; but the pigeons are
dearer than in London. Rabbits are very rare; and there is scarce a goose to be seen in the
whole county of Nice. Wild-ducks and teal are sometimes to be had in the winter; and now I
am speaking of sea-fowl, it may not be amiss to tell you what I know of the halcyon, or king's-fisher.
It is a bird, though very rare in this country about the size of a pigeon; the body brown,
and the belly white: by a wonderful instinct it makes its nest upon the surface of the sea,
and lays its eggs in the month of November, when the Mediterranean is always calm and smooth
as a mill-pond. The people about here call them martinets, because they begin to hatch about
Martinmass. Their nests are sometimes seen floating near the shore, and generally become the
prize of the boys, who are very alert in catching them.

You know all sea-birds are allowed by the church of Rome to be eaten on meagre days, as a kind
of fish; and the monks especially do not fail to make use of this permission. Sea turtle, or
tortoises, are often found at sea by the mariners, in these latitudes: but they are not the
green sort, so much in request among the aldermen of London. All the Mediterranean turtle are
of the kind called loggerhead, which in the West-Indies are eaten by none but hungry seamen,
negroes, and the lowest class of people. One of these, weighing about two hundred pounds, was
lately brought on shore by the fishermen of Nice, who found it floating asleep on the surface
of the sea. The whole town was alarmed at sight of such a monster, the nature of which they
could not comprehend. However, the monks, called minims, of St. Francesco di Paolo, guided
by a sure instinct, marked it as their prey, and surrounded it accordingly. The friars of other
convents, not quite so hungry, crowding down to the beach, declared it should not be eaten;
dropped some hints about the possibility of its being something praeternatural and diabolical,
and even proposed exorcisms and aspersions with holy water. The populace were divided according
to their attachment to this, or that convent: a mighty clamour arose; and the police, in order
to remove the cause of their contention, ordered the tortoise to be recommitted to the waves;
a sentence which the Franciscans saw executed, not without sighs and lamentation. The land-turtle,
or terrapin, is much better known at Nice, as being a native of this country; yet the best
are brought from the island of Sardinia. The soup or bouillon of this animal is always prescribed
here as a great restorative to consumptive patients. The bread of Nice is very indifferent,
and I am persuaded very unwholesome. The flour is generally musty, and not quite free of sand.
This is either owing to the particles of the mill-stone rubbed off in grinding, or to what
adheres to the corn itself, in being threshed upon the common ground; for there are no threshing-floors
in this country. I shall now take notice of the vegetables of Nice. In the winter, we have
green pease, asparagus, artichoaks, cauliflower, beans, French beans, celery, and endive; cabbage,
coleworts, radishes, turnips, carrots, betteraves, sorrel lettuce, onions, garlic, and chalot.
We have potatoes from the mountains, mushrooms, champignons, and truffles. Piedmont affords
white truffles, counted the most delicious in the world: they sell for about three livres the
pound. The fruits of this season are pickled olives, oranges, lemons, citrons, citronelles,
dried figs, grapes, apples, pears, almonds, chestnuts, walnuts, filberts, medlars, pomegranates,
and a fruit called azerolles, [The Italians call them Lazerruoli.] about the size of a nutmeg,
of an oblong shape, red colour, and agreeable acid taste. I might likewise add the cherry of
the Laurus cerasus, which is sold in the market; very beautiful to the eye, but insipid to
the palate. In summer we have all those vegetables in perfection. There is also a kind of small
courge, or gourd, of which the people of the country make a very savoury ragout, with the help
of eggs, cheese, and fresh anchovies. Another is made of the badenjean, which the Spaniards
call berengena: [This fruit is called Melanzana in Italy and is much esteemed by the Jews in
Leghorn. Perhaps Melanzana is a corruption of Malamsana.] it is much eaten in Spain and the
Levant, as well as by the Moors in Barbary. It is about the size and shape of a hen's egg,
inclosed in a cup like an acorn; when ripe, of a faint purple colour. It grows on a stalk about
a foot high, with long spines or prickles. The people here have different ways of slicing and
dressing it, by broiling, boiling, and stewing, with other ingredients: but it is at best an
insipid dish. There are some caperbushes in this neighbourhood, which grow wild in holes of
garden walls, and require no sort of cultivation: in one or two gardens, there are palm-trees;
but the dates never ripen. In my register of the weather, I have marked the seasons of the
principal fruits in this country. In May we have strawberries, which continue in season two
or three months. These are of the wood kind; very grateful, and of a good flavour; but the
scarlets and hautboys are not known at Nice. In the beginning of June, and even sooner, the
cherries begin to be ripe. They are a kind of bleeding hearts; large, fleshy, and high flavoured,
though rather too luscious. I have likewise seen a few of those we call Kentish cherries which
are much more cool, acid, and agreeable, especially in this hot climate. The cherries are succeeded
by the apricots and peaches, which are all standards, and of consequence better flavoured than
what we call wall-fruit. The trees, as well as almonds, grow and bear without care and cultivation,
and may be seen in the open fields about Nice, but without proper culture, the fruit degenerates.
The best peaches I have seen at Nice are the amberges, of a yellow hue, and oblong shape, about
the size of a small lemon. Their consistence is much more solid than that of our English peaches,
and their taste more delicious. Several trees of this kind I have in my own garden. Here is
likewise plenty of other sorts; but no nectarines. We have little choice of plumbs. Neither
do I admire the pears or apples of this country: but the most agreeable apples I ever tasted,
come from Final, and are called pomi carli. The greatest fault I find with most fruits in this
climate, is, that they are too sweet and luscious, and want that agreeable acid which is so
cooling and so grateful in a hot country. This, too, is the case with our grapes, of which
there is great plenty and variety, plump and juicy, and large as plumbs. Nature, however, has
not neglected to provide other agreeable vegetable juices to cool the human body. During the
whole summer, we have plenty of musk melons. I can buy one as large as my head for the value
of an English penny: but one of the best and largest, weighing ten or twelve pounds, I can
have for twelve sols, or about eight-pence sterling. From Antibes and Sardinia, we have another
fruit called a watermelon, which is well known in Jamaica, and some of our other colonies.
Those from Antibes are about the size of an ordinary bomb-shell: but the Sardinian and Jamaica
watermelons are four times as large. The skin is green, smooth, and thin. The inside is a purple
pulp, studded with broad, flat, black seeds, and impregnated with a juice the most cool, delicate,
and refreshing, that can well be conceived. One would imagine the pulp itself dissolved in
the stomach; for you may eat of it until you are filled up to the tongue, without feeling the
least inconvenience. It is so friendly to the constitution, that in ardent inflammatory fevers,
it is drank as the best emulsion. At Genoa, Florence, and Rome, it is sold in the streets,
ready cut in slices; and the porters, sweating under their burthens, buy, and eat them as they
pass. A porter of London quenches his thirst with a draught of strong beer: a porter of Rome,
or Naples, refreshes himself with a slice of water-melon, or a glass of iced-water. The one
costs three half-pence; the last, half a farthing--which of them is most effectual? I am sure
the men are equally pleased. It is commonly remarked, that beer strengthens as well as refreshes.
But the porters of Constantinople, who never drink any thing stronger than water, and eat very
little animal food, will lift and carry heavier burthens than any other porters in the known
world. If we may believe the most respectable travellers, a Turk will carry a load of seven
hundred weight, which is more (I believe) than any English porter ever attempted to carry any
length of way.

Among the refreshments of these warm countries, I ought not to forget mentioning the sorbettes,
which are sold in coffee-houses, and places of public resort. They are iced froth, made with
juice of oranges, apricots, or peaches; very agreeable to the palate, and so extremely cold,
that I was afraid to swallow them in this hot country, until I found from information and experience,
that they may be taken in moderation, without any bad consequence.

Another considerable article in house-keeping is wine, which we have here good and reasonable.
The wine of Tavelle in Languedoc is very near as good as Burgundy, and may be had at Nice,
at the rate of six-pence a bottle. The sweet wine of St. Laurent, counted equal to that of
Frontignan, costs about eight or nine-pence a quart: pretty good Malaga may be had for half
the money. Those who make their own wine choose the grapes from different vineyards, and have
them picked, pressed, and fermented at home.

That which is made by the peasants, both red and white, is generally genuine: but the wine-merchants
of Nice brew and balderdash, and even mix it with pigeons dung and quick-lime. It cannot be
supposed, that a stranger and sojourner should buy his own grapes, and make his own provision
of wine: but he may buy it by recommendation from the peasants, for about eighteen or twenty
livres the charge, consisting of eleven rup five pounds; in other words, of two hundred and
eighty pounds of this country, so as to bring it for something less than three-pence a quart.
The Nice wine, when mixed with water, makes an agreeable beverage. There is an inferior sort
for servants drank by the common people, which in the cabaret does not cost above a penny a
bottle. The people here are not so nice as the English, in the management of their wine. It
is kept in flacons, or large flasks, without corks, having a little oil at top. It is not deemed
the worse for having been opened a day or two before; and they expose it to the hot sun, and
all kinds of weather, without hesitation. Certain it is, this treatment has little or no effect
upon its taste, flavour, and transparency.

The brandy of Nice is very indifferent: and the liqueurs are so sweetened with coarse sugar,
that they scarce retain the taste or flavour of any other ingredient.

The last article of domestic oeconomy which I shall mention is fuel, or wood for firing, which
I buy for eleven sols (a little more than six-pence halfpenny) a quintal, consisting of one
hundred and fifty pound Nice weight. The best, which is of oak, comes from Sardinia. The common
sort is olive, which being cut with the sap in it, ought to be laid in during the summer; otherwise,
it will make a very uncomfortable fire. In my kitchen and two chambers, I burned fifteen thousand
weight of wood in four weeks, exclusive of charcoal for the kitchen stoves, and of pine-tops
for lighting the fires. These last are as large as pineapples, which they greatly resemble
in shape, and to which, indeed, they give their name; and being full of turpentine, make a
wonderful blaze. For the same purpose, the people of these countries use the sarments, or cuttings
of the vines, which they sell made up in small fascines. This great consumption of wood is
owing to the large fires used in roasting pieces of beef, and joints, in the English manner.
The roasts of this country seldom exceed two or three pounds of meat; and their other plats
are made over stove holes. But it is now high time to conduct you from the kitchen, where you
have been too long detained by--Your humble servant.

P.S.--I have mentioned the prices of almost all the articles in house-keeping, as they are
paid by the English: but exclusive of butcher's meat, I am certain the natives do not pay so
much by thirty per cent. Their imposition on us, is not only a proof of their own villany and
hatred, but a scandal on their government; which ought to interfere in favour of the subjects
of a nation, to which they are so much bound in point of policy, as well as gratitude.

LETTER XX

NICE, October 22, 1764.

SIR,--As I have nothing else to do, but to satisfy my own curiosity, and that of my friends,
I obey your injunctions with pleasure; though not without some apprehension that my inquiries
will afford you very little entertainment. The place where I am is of very little importance
or consequence as a state or community; neither is there any thing curious or interesting in
the character or oeconomy of its inhabitants.

There are some few merchants in Nice, said to be in good circumstances. I know one of them,
who deals to a considerable extent, and goes twice a year to London to attend the sales of
the East-India company. He buys up a very large quantity of muslins, and other Indian goods,
and freights a ship in the river to transport them to Villa Franca. Some of these are sent
to Swisserland; but, I believe, the greater part is smuggled into France, by virtue of counterfeit
stamps, which are here used without any ceremony. Indeed, the chief commerce of this place
is a contraband traffick carried on to the disadvantage of France; and I am told, that the
farmers of the Levant company in that kingdom find their account in conniving at it. Certain
it is, a great quantity of merchandize is brought hither every week by mules from Turin and
other parts in Piedmont, and afterwards conveyed to the other side of the Var, either by land
or water. The mules of Piedmont are exceeding strong and hardy. One of them will carry a burthen
of near six hundred weight. They are easily nourished, and require no other respite from their
labour, but the night's repose. They are the only carriage that can be used in crossing the
mountains, being very sure-footed: and it is observed that in choosing their steps, they always
march upon the brink of the precipice. You must let them take their own way, otherwise you
will be in danger of losing your life; for they are obstinate, even to desperation. It is very
dangerous for a person on horseback to meet those animals: they have such an aversion to horses,
that they will attack them with incredible fury, so as even to tear them and their riders in
pieces; and the best method for avoiding this fate, is to clap spurs to your beast, and seek
your safety in flight. I have been more than once obliged to fly before them. They always give
you warning, by raising a hideous braying as soon as they perceive the horse at a distance.
The mules of Provence are not so mischievous, because they are more used to the sight and society
of horses: but those of Piedmont are by far the largest and the strongest I have seen.

Some very feasible schemes for improving the commerce of Nice have been presented to the ministry
of Turin; but hitherto without success. The English import annually between two and three thousand
bales of raw silk, the growth of Piedmont; and this declaration would be held legal evidence.
In some parts of France, the cure of the parish, on All Souls' day, which is called le jour
des morts, says a libera domine for two sols, at every grave in the burying-ground, for the
release of the soul whose body is there interred.

The artisans of Nice are very lazy, very needy, very aukward, and void of all ingenuity. The
price of their labour is very near as high as at London or Paris. Rather than work for moderate
profit, arising from constant employment, which would comfortably maintain them and their families,
they choose to starve at home, to lounge about the ramparts, bask themselves in the sun, or
play at bowls in the streets from morning 'till night.

The lowest class of people consists of fishermen, day labourers, porters, and peasants: these
last are distributed chiefly in the small cassines in the neighbourhood of the city, and are
said to amount to twelve thousand. They are employed in labouring the ground, and have all
the outward signs of extreme misery. They are all diminutive, meagre, withered, dirty, and
half naked; in their complexions, not barely swarthy, but as black as Moors; and I believe
many of them are descendants of that people. They are very hard favoured; and their women in
general have the coarsest features I have ever seen: it must be owned, however, they have the
finest teeth in the world. The nourishment of those poor creatures consists of the refuse of
the garden, very coarse bread, a kind of meal called polenta, made of Indian corn, which is
very nourishing and agreeable, and a little oil; but even in these particulars, they seem to
be stinted to very scanty meals. I have known a peasant feed his family with the skins of boiled
beans. Their hogs are much better fed than their children. 'Tis pity they have no cows, which
would yield milk, butter, and cheese, for the sustenance of their families. With all this wretchedness,
one of these peasants will not work in your garden for less than eighteen sols, about eleven
pence sterling, per diem; and then he does not half the work of an English labourer. If there
is fruit in it, or any thing he can convey, he will infallibly steal it, if you do not keep
a very watchful eye over him. All the common people are thieves and beggars; and I believe
this is always the case with people who are extremely indigent and miserable. In other respects,
they are seldom guilty of excesses. They are remarkably respectful and submissive to their
superiors. The populace of Nice are very quiet and orderly. They are little addicted to drunkenness.
I have never heard of one riot since I lived among them; and murder and robbery are altogether
unknown. A man may walk alone over the county of Nice, at midnight, without danger of insult.
The police is very well regulated. No man is permitted to wear a pistol or dagger' on pain
of being sent to the gallies. I am informed, that both murder and robbery are very frequent
in some parts of Piedmont. Even here, when the peasants quarrel in their cups, (which very
seldom happens) they draw their knives, and the one infallibly stabs the other. To such extremities,
however, they never proceed, except when there is a woman in the case; and mutual jealousy
co-operates with the liquor they have drank, to inflame their passions. In Nice, the common
people retire to their lodgings at eight o'clock in winter, and nine in summer. Every person
found in the streets after these hours, is apprehended by the patrole; and, if he cannot give
a good account of himself, sent to prison. At nine in winter, and ten in summer, there is a
curfew-bell rung, warning the people to put out their lights, and go to bed. This is a very
necessary precaution in towns subject to conflagrations; but of small use in Nice, where there
is very little combustible in the houses.

The punishments inflicted upon malefactors and delinquents at Nice are hanging for capital
crimes; slavery on board the gallies for a limited term, or for life, according to the nature
of the transgression; flagellation, and the strappado. This last is performed, by hoisting
up the criminal by his hands tied behind his back, on a pulley about two stories high; from
whence, the rope being suddenly slackened, he falls to within a yard or two of the ground,
where he is stopped with a violent shock arising from the weight of his body, and the velocity
of his descent, which generally dislocates his shoulders, with incredible pain. This dreadful
execution is sometimes repeated in a few minutes on the same delinquent; so that the very ligaments
are tore from his joints, and his arms are rendered useless for life.

The poverty of the people in this country, as well as in the South of France, may be conjectured
from the appearance of their domestic animals. The draughthorses, mules, and asses, of the
peasants, are so meagre, as to excite compassion. There is not a dog to be seen in tolerable
case; and the cats are so many emblems of famine, frightfully thin, and dangerously rapacious.
I wonder the dogs and they do not devour young children. Another proof of that indigence which
reigns among the common people, is this: you may pass through the whole South of France, as
well as the county of Nice, where there is no want of groves, woods, and plantations, without
hearing the song of blackbird, thrush, linnet, gold-finch, or any other bird whatsoever. All
is silent and solitary. The poor birds are destroyed, or driven for refuge, into other countries,
by the savage persecution of the people, who spare no pains to kill, and catch them for their
own subsistence. Scarce a sparrow, red-breast, tomtit, or wren, can 'scape the guns and snares
of those indefatigable fowlers. Even the noblesse make parties to go a la chasse, a-hunting;
that is, to kill those little birds, which they eat as gibier, or game.

The great poverty of the people here, is owing to their religion. Half of their time is lost
in observing the great number of festivals; and half of their substance is given to mendicant
friars and parish priests. But if the church occasions their indigence, it likewise, in some
measure, alleviates the horrors of it, by amusing them with shows, processions, and even those
very feasts, which afford a recess from labour, in a country where the climate disposes them
to idleness. If the peasants in the neighbourhood of any chapel dedicated to a saint, whose
day is to be celebrated, have a mind to make a festin, in other words, a fair, they apply to
the commandant of Nice for a license, which costs them about a French crown. This being obtained,
they assemble after service, men and women, in their best apparel, and dance to the musick
of fiddles, and pipe and tabor, or rather pipe and drum. There are hucksters' stands, with
pedlary ware and knick-knacks for presents; cakes and bread, liqueurs and wine; and thither
generally resort all the company of Nice. I have seen our whole noblesse at one of these festins,
kept on the highway in summer, mingled with an immense crowd of peasants, mules, and asses,
covered with dust, and sweating at every pore with the excessive heat of the weather. I should
be much puzzled to tell whence their enjoyment arises on such occasions; or to explain their
motives for going thither, unless they are prescribed it for pennance, as a fore-taste of purgatory.

Now I am speaking of religious institutions, I cannot help observing, that the antient Romans
were still more superstitious than the modern Italians; and that the number of their religious
feasts, sacrifices, fasts, and holidays, was even greater than those of the Christian church
of Rome. They had their festi and profesti, their feriae stativae, and conceptivae, their fixed
and moveable feasts; their esuriales, or fasting days, and their precidaneae, or vigils. The
agonales were celebrated in January; the carmentales, in January and February; the lupercales
and matronales, in March; the megalesia in April; the floralia, in May; and the matralia in
June. They had their saturnalia, robigalia, venalia, vertumnalia, fornacalia, palilia, and
laralia, their latinae, their paganales, their sementinae, their compitales, and their imperativae;
such as the novemdalia, instituted by the senate, on account of a supposed shower of stones.
Besides, every private family had a number of feriae, kept either by way of rejoicing for some
benefit, or mourning for some calamity. Every time it thundered, the day was kept holy. Every
ninth day was a holiday, thence called nundinae quasi novendinae. There was the dies denominalis,
which was the fourth of the kalends; nones and ides of every month, over and above the anniversary
of every great defeat which the republic had sustained, particularly the dies alliensis, or
fifteenth of the kalends of December, on which the Romans were totally defeated by the Gauls
and Veientes; as Lucan says--et damnata diu Romanis allia fastis, and Allia in Rome's Calendar
condemn'd. The vast variety of their deities, said to amount to thirty thousand, with their
respective rites of adoration, could not fail to introduce such a number of ceremonies, shews,
sacrifices, lustrations, and public processions, as must have employed the people almost constantly
from one end of the year to the other. This continual dissipation must have been a great enemy
to industry; and the people must have been idle and effeminate. I think it would be no difficult
matter to prove, that there is very little difference, in point of character, between the antient
and modern inhabitants of Rome; and that the great figure which this empire made of old, was
not so much owing to the intrinsic virtue of its citizens, as to the barbarism, ignorance,
and imbecility of the nations they subdued. Instances of public and private virtue I find as
frequent and as striking in the history of other nations, as in the annals of antient Rome;
and now that the kingdoms and states of Europe are pretty equally enlightened, and ballanced
in the scale of political power, I am of opinion, that if the most fortunate generals of the
Roman commonwealth were again placed at the head of the very armies they once commanded, instead
of extending their conquests over all Europe and Asia, they would hardly be able to subdue,
and retain under their dominion, all the petty republics that subsist in Italy.

But I am tired with writing; and I believe you will be tired with reading this long letter
notwithstanding all your prepossession in favour of--Your very humble servant.

LETTER XXI

NICE, November 10, 1764.

DEAR DOCTOR,--In my enquiries about the revenues of Nice, I am obliged to trust to the information
of the inhabitants, who are much given to exaggerate. They tell me, the revenues of this town
amount to one hundred thousand livres, or five thousand pounds sterling; of which I would strike
off at least one fourth, as an addition of their own vanity: perhaps, if we deduct a third,
it will be nearer the truth. For, I cannot find out any other funds they have, but the butchery
and the bakery, which they farm at so much a year to the best bidder; and the droits d'entree,
or duties upon provision brought into the city; but these are very small. The king is said
to draw from Nice one hundred thousand livres annually, arising from a free-gift, amounting
to seven hundred pounds sterling, in lieu of the taille, from which this town and county are
exempted; an inconsiderable duty upon wine sold in public-houses; and the droits du port. These
last consist of anchorage, paid by all vessels in proportion to their tonnage, when they enter
the harbours of Nice and Villa Franca. Besides, all foreign vessels, under a certain stipulated
burthen, that pass between the island of Sardinia and this coast, are obliged, in going to
the eastward, to enter; and pay a certain regulated imposition, on pain of being taken and
made prize. The prince of Monaco exacts a talliage of the same kind; and both he and the king
of Sardinia maintain armed cruisers to assert this prerogative; from which, however, the English
and French are exempted by treaty, in consequence of having paid a sum of money at once. In
all probability, it was originally given as a consideration for maintaining lights on the shore,
for the benefit of navigators, like the toll paid for passing the Sound in the Baltic. [Upon
further inquiry I find it was given in consideration of being protected from the Corsairs by
the naval force of the Duke of Savoy and Prince of Monaco.] The fanal, or lanthorn, to the
eastward of Villa Franca, is kept in good repair, and still lighted in the winter. The toll,
however, is a very troublesome tax upon feluccas, and other small craft, which are greatly
retarded in their voyages, and often lose the benefit of a fair wind, by being obliged to run
inshore, and enter those harbours. The tobacco the king manufactures at his own expence, and
sells for his own profit, at a very high price; and every person convicted of selling this
commodity in secret, is sent to the gallies for life. The salt comes chiefly from Sardinia,
and is stored up in the king's magazine from whence it is exported to Piedmont, and other parts
of his inland dominions. And here it may not be amiss to observe, that Sardinia produces very
good horses, well-shaped, though small; strong, hardy, full of mettle, and easily fed. The
whole county of Nice is said to yield the king half a million of livres, about twenty-five
thousand pounds sterling, arising from a small donative made by every town and village: for
the lands pay no tax, or imposition, but the tithes to the church. His revenue then flows from
the gabelle on salt and wine, and these free-gifts; so that we may strike off one fifth of
the sum at which the whole is estimated; and conclude, that the king draws from the county
at Nice, about four hundred thousand livres, or twenty thousand pounds sterling. That his revenues
from Nice are not great, appears from the smallness of the appointments allowed to his officers.
The president has about three hundred pounds per annum; and the intendant about two. The pay
of the commandant does not exceed three hundred and fifty pounds: but he has certain privileges
called the tour du baton, some of which a man of spirit would not insist upon. He who commands
at present, having no estate of his own, enjoys a small commandery, which being added to his
appointments at Nice, make the whole amount to about five hundred pounds sterling.

If we may believe the politicians of Nice, the king of Sardinia's whole revenue does not fall
short of twenty millions of Piedmontese livres, being above one million of our money. It must
be owned, that there is no country in Christendom less taxed than that of Nice; and as the
soil produces the necessaries of life, the inhabitants, with a little industry, might renew
the golden age in this happy climate, among their groves, woods, and mountains, beautified
with fountains, brooks, rivers, torrents, and cascades. In the midst of these pastoral advantages,
the peasants are poor and miserable. They have no stock to begin the world with. They have
no leases of the lands they cultivate; but entirely depend, from year to year, on the pleasure
of the arbitrary landholder, who may turn them out at a minute's warning; and they are oppressed
by the mendicant friars and parish priests, who rob them of the best fruits of their labour:
after all, the ground is too scanty for the number of families which are crouded on it.

You desire to know the state of the arts and sciences at Nice; which, indeed, is almost a total
blank. I know not what men of talents this place may have formerly produced; but at present,
it seems to be consecrated to the reign of dulness and superstition. It is very surprising,
to see a people established between two enlightened nations, so devoid of taste and literature.
Here are no tolerable pictures, busts, statues, nor edifices: the very ornaments of the churches
are wretchedly conceived, and worse executed. They have no public, nor private libraries that
afford any thing worth perusing. There is not even a bookseller in Nice. Though they value
themselves upon their being natives of Italy, they are unacquainted with music. The few that
play upon instruments, attend only to the execution. They have no genius nor taste, nor any
knowledge of harmony and composition. Among the French, a Nissard piques himself on being Provencal;
but in Florence, Milan, or Rome, he claims the honour of being born a native of Italy. The
people of condition here speak both languages equally well; or, rather, equally ill; for they
use a low, uncouth phraseology; and their pronunciation is extremely vitious. Their vernacular
tongue is what they call Patois; though in so calling it, they do it injustice.--Patois, from
the Latin word patavinitas, means no more than a provincial accent, or dialect. It takes its
name from Patavium, or Padua, which was the birthplace of Livy, who, with all his merit as
a writer, has admitted into his history, some provincial expressions of his own country. The
Patois, or native tongue of Nice, is no other than the ancient Provencal, from which the Italian,
Spanish and French languages, have been formed. This is the language that rose upon the ruins
of the Latin tongue, after the irruptions of the Goths, Vandals, Huns, and Burgundians, by
whom the Roman empire was destroyed. It was spoke all over Italy, Spain, and the southern parts
of France, until the thirteenth century, when the Italians began to polish it into the language
which they now call their own: The Spaniards and French, likewise, improved it into their respective
tongues. From its great affinity to the Latin, it was called Romance, a name which the Spaniards
still give to their own language. As the first legends of knight-errantry were written in Provencal,
all subsequent performances of the same kind, have derived from it the name of romance; and
as those annals of chivalry contained extravagant adventures of knights, giants, and necromancers,
every improbable story or fiction is to this day called a romance. Mr. Walpole, in his Catalogue
of royal and noble Authors, has produced two sonnets in the antient Provencal, written by our
king Richard I. surnamed Coeur de Lion; and Voltaire, in his Historical Tracts, has favoured
the world with some specimens of the same language. The Patois of Nice, must, without doubt,
have undergone changes and corruptions in the course of so many ages, especially as no pains
have been taken to preserve its original purity, either in orthography or pronunciation. It
is neglected, as the language of the vulgar: and scarce any-body here knows either its origin
or constitution. I have in vain endeavoured to procure some pieces in the antient Provencal,
that I might compare them with the modern Patois: but I can find no person to give me the least
information on the subject. The shades of ignorance, sloth, and stupidity, are impenetrable.
Almost every word of the Patois may still be found in the Italian, Spanish, and French languages,
with a small change in the pronunciation. Cavallo, signifying a horse in Italian and Spanish
is called cavao; maison, the French word for a house, is changed into maion; aqua, which means
water in Spanish, the Nissards call daigua. To express, what a slop is here! they say acco
fa lac aqui, which is a sentence composed of two Italian words, one French, and one Spanish.
This is nearly the proportion in which these three languages will be found mingled in the Patois
of Nice; which, with some variation, extends over all Provence, Languedoc, and Gascony. I will
now treat you with two or three stanzas of a canzon, or hymn, in this language, to the Virgin
Mary, which was lately printed at Nice.

  1

  Vierge, maire de Dieu,
  Nuostro buono avocado,
  Embel car uvostre sieu,
  En Fenestro adourado,
  Jeu vous saludi,
  E demandi en socours;
  E sense autre preludi,
  Canti lous uvostre honours.

  Virgin, mother of God,
  our good advocate,
  With your dear son,
  In Fenestro adored,
  I salute you,
  And ask his assistance;
  And without further prelude,
  I sing your honours.

[Fenestro is the name of a place in this neighbourhood, where there is a supposed miraculous
sanctuary, or chapel, of the Virgin Mary.]

  2.

  Qu'ario de Paradis!
  Que maesta divine!
  Salamon es d'advis,
  Giugiar de uvostro mino;
  Vous dis plus bello:
  E lou dis ben soven
  De toutoi lei femello,
  E non s'engano ren.

  What air of Paradise!
  What majesty divine!
  Solomon is of opinion,
  To judge of your appearance;
  Says you are the fairest
  And it is often said
  Of all females,
  And we are not all deceived.

  3.

  Qu'ario de Paradis!
  Que maesta divine!
  La bellezzo eblovis;
  La bonta l'ueigl raffino.
  Sias couronado;
  Tenes lou monde en man
  Sus del trono assettado,
  Riges lou avostre enfan.

  What air of Paradise!
  What majesty divine!
  The beauty dazzles;
  The goodness purifies the eye:
  You are crowned:
  You hold the world in your hand:
  Seated on the throne,
  You support your child.

You see I have not chosen this canzon for the beauty and elegance of thought and expression;
but give it you as the only printed specimen I could find of the modern Provencal. If you have
any curiosity to be further acquainted with the Patois, I will endeavour to procure you satisfaction.
Meanwhile, I am, in plain English,--Dear Sir, Ever yours.

LETTER XXII

NICE, November 10, 1764.

DEAR SIR,--I had once thoughts of writing a complete natural history of this town and county:
but I found myself altogether unequal to the task. I have neither health, strength, nor opportunity
to make proper collections of the mineral, vegetable, and animal productions. I am not much
conversant with these branches of natural philosophy. I have no books to direct my inquiries.
I can find no person capable of giving me the least information or assistance; and I am strangely
puzzled by the barbarous names they give to many different species, the descriptions of which
I have read under other appelations; and which, as I have never seen them before, I cannot
pretend to distinguish by the eye. You must therefore be contented with such imperfect intelligence
as my opportunities can afford.

The useful arts practised at Nice, are these, gardening and agriculture, with their consequences,
the making of wine, oil, and cordage; the rearing of silk-worms, with the subsequent management
and manufacture of that production; and the fishing, which I have already described.

Nothing can be more unpromising than the natural soil of this territory, except in a very few
narrow bottoms, where there is a stiff clay, which when carefully watered, yields tolerable
pasturage. In every other part, the soil consists of a light sand mingled with pebbles, which
serves well enough for the culture of vines and olives: but the ground laid out for kitchen
herbs, as well as for other fruit must be manured with great care and attention. They have
no black cattle to afford such compost as our farmers use in England. The dung of mules and
asses, which are their only beasts of burthen, is of very little value for this purpose; and
the natural sterility of their ground requires something highly impregnated with nitre and
volatile salts. They have recourse therefore to pigeons' dung and ordure, which fully answer
their expectations. Every peasant opens, at one corner of his wall, a public house of office
for the reception of passengers; and in the town of Nice, every  tenement is provided with
one of these receptacles, the contents of which are carefully preserved for sale. The peasant
comes with his asses and casks to carry it off before day, and pays for it according to its
quality, which he examines and investigates, by the taste and flavour. The jakes of a protestant
family, who eat gras every day, bears a much higher price than the privy of a good catholic
who lives maigre one half of the year. The vaults belonging to the convent of Minims are not
worth emptying.

The ground here is not delved with spades as in England, but laboured with a broad, sharp hough,
having a short horizontal handle; and the climate is so hot and dry in the summer, that the
plants must be watered every morning and evening, especially where it is not shaded by trees.
It is surprising to see how the productions of the earth are crouded together. One would imagine
they would rob one another of nourishment; and moreover be stifled for want of air; and doubtless
this is in some measure the case. Olive and other fruit trees are planted in rows very close
to each other. These are connected by vines, and the interstices, between the rows, are filled
with corn. The gardens that supply the town with sallad and pot-herbs, lye all on the side
of Provence, by the highway. They are surrounded with high stone-walls, or ditches, planted
with a kind of cane or large reed, which answers many purposes in this country. The leaves
of it afford sustenance to the asses, and the canes not only serve as fences to the inclosures;
but are used to prop the vines and pease, and to build habitations for the silkworms: they
are formed into arbours, and wore as walking-staves. All these gardens are watered by little
rills that come from the mountains, particularly, by the small branches of the two sources
which I have described in a former letter, as issuing from the two sides of a mountain, under
the names of Fontaine de Muraille, and Fontaine du Temple.

In the neighbourhood of Nice, they raise a considerable quantity of hemp, the largest and strongest
I ever saw. Part of this, when dressed, is exported to other countries; and part is manufactured
into cordage. However profitable it may be to the grower, it is certainly a great nuisance
in the summer. When taken out of the pits, where it has been put to rot, the stench it raises
is quite insupportable; and must undoubtedly be unwholesome.

There is such a want of land in this neighbourhood, that terraces are built over one another
with loose stones, on the faces of bare rocks, and these being covered with earth and manured,
are planted with olives, vines, and corn. The same shift was practised all over Palestine,
which was rocky and barren, and much more populous than the county of Nice.

Notwithstanding the small extent of this territory, there are some pleasant meadows in the
skirts of Nice, that produce excellent clover; and the corn which is sown in open fields, where
it has the full benefit of the soil, sun, and air, grows to a surprizing height. I have seen
rye seven or eight feet high. All vegetables have a wonderful growth in this climate. Besides
wheat, rye, barley, and oats, this country produces a good deal of Meliga, or Turkish wheat,
which is what we call Indian corn. I have, in a former letter, observed that the meal of this
grain goes by the name polenta, and makes excellent hasty-pudding, being very nourishing, and
counted an admirable pectoral. The pods and stalks are used for fuel: and the leaves are much
preferable to common straw, for making paillasses.

The pease and beans in the garden appear in the winter like beautiful plantations of young
trees in blossom; and perfume the air. Myrtle, sweet-briar, sweet-marjoram, sage, thyme, lavender,
rosemary, with many other aromatic herbs and flowers, which with us require the most careful
cultivation, are here found wild in the mountains.

It is not many years since the Nissards learned the culture of silk-worms, of their neighbours
the Piedmontese; and hitherto the progress they have made is not very considerable: the whole
county of Nice produces about one hundred and thirty-three bales of three hundred pounds each,
amounting in value to four hundred thousand livres.

In the beginning of April, when the mulberry-leaves, begin to put forth, the eggs or grains
that produce the silk-worm, are hatched. The grains are washed in wine, and those that swim
on the top, are thrown away as good for nothing. The rest being deposited in small bags of
linen, are worn by women in their bosoms, until the worms begin to appear: then they are placed
in shallow wooden boxes, covered with a piece of white paper, cut into little holes, through
which the worms ascend as they are hatched, to feed on the young mulberry-leaves, of which
there is a layer above the paper. These boxes are kept for warmth between two mattrasses, and
visited every day. Fresh leaves are laid in, and the worms that feed are removed successively
to the other place prepared for their reception. This is an habitation, consisting of two or
three stories, about twenty inches from each other, raised upon four wooden posts. The floors
are made of canes, and strewed with fresh mulberry-leaves: the corner posts, and other occasional
props, for sustaining the different floors, are covered with a coat of loose heath, which is
twisted round the wood. The worms when hatched are laid upon the floors; and here you may see
them in all the different stages (if moulting or casting the slough, a change which they undergo
three times successively before they begin to work. The silk-worm is an animal of such acute
and delicate sensations, that too much care cannot be taken to keep its habitation clean, and
to refresh it from time to time with pure air. I have seen them languish and die in scores,
in consequence of an accidental bad smell. The soiled leaves, and the filth which they necessarily
produce, should be carefully shifted every day; and it would not be amiss to purify the air
sometimes with fumes of vinegar, rose, or orange-flower water. These niceties, however, are
but little observed. They commonly lie in heaps as thick as shrimps in a plate, some feeding
on the leaves, some new hatched, some intranced in the agonies of casting their skin, sonic
languishing, and some actually dead, with a litter of half-eaten faded leaves about them, in
a close room, crouded with women and children, not at all remarkable for their cleanliness.
I am assured by some persons of credit, that if they are touched, or even approached, by a
woman in her catamenia, they infallibly expire. This, however, must be understood of those
females whose skins have naturally a very rank flavour, which is generally heightened at such
periods. The mulberry-leaves used in this country are of the tree which bears a small white
fruit not larger than a damascene. They are planted on purpose, and the leaves are sold at
so much a pound. By the middle of June all the mulberry-trees are stripped; but new leaves
succeed, and in a few weeks, they are cloathed again with fresh verdure. In about ten days
after the last moulting, the silk-worm climbs upon the props of his house, and choosing a situation
among the heath, begins to spin in a most curious manner, until he is quite inclosed,   and
the cocon or pod of silk, about the size of a pigeon's egg, which he has produced remains suspended
by several filaments. It is no unusual to see double cocons, spun by two worms included under
a common cover. There must be an infinite number of worms to yield any considerable quantity
of silk. One ounce of eggs or grains produces, four rup, or one hundred Nice pounds of cocons;
and one rup, or twenty-five pounds of cocons, if they are rich, gives three pounds of raw silk;
that is, twelve pounds of silk are got from one ounce of grains, which ounce of grains its
produced by as many worms as are inclosed in one pound, or twelve ounces of cocons. In preserving
the cocons for breed, you must choose an equal number of males and females; and these are very
easily distinguished by the shape of the cocons; that which contains the male is sharp, and
the other obtuse, at the two ends. In ten or twelve days after the cocon is finished, the worm
makes its way through it, in the form of a very ugly, unwieldy, aukward butterfly, and as the
different sexes are placed by one another on paper or linen, they immediately engender. The
female lays her eggs, which are carefully preserved; but neither she nor her mate takes any
nourishment, and in eight or ten days after they quit the cocons, they generally die. The silk
of these cocons cannot be wound, because the animals in piercing through them, have destroyed
the continuity of the filaments. It is therefore, first boiled, and then picked and carded
like wool, and being afterwards spun, is used in the coarser stuffs of the silk manufacture.
The other cocons, which yield the best silk, are managed in a different manner. Before the
inclosed worm has time to penetrate, the silk is reeled off with equal care and ingenuity.
A handful of the cocons are thrown away into a kettle of boiling water, which not only kills
the animal, but dissolves the glutinous substance by which the fine filaments of the silk cohere
or stick together, so that they are easily wound off, without breaking. Six or seven of these
small filaments being joined together are passed over a kind of twisting iron, and fixed to
the wheel, which one girl turns, while another, with her hands in the boiling water, disentangles
the threads, joins them when they chance to break, and supplies fresh cocons with admirable
dexterity and dispatch. There is a manufacture of this kind just without one of the gates of
Nice, where forty or fifty of these wheels are worked together, and give employment for some
weeks to double the number of young women. Those who manage the pods that float in the boiling
water must be very alert, otherwise they will scald their fingers. The smell that comes from
the boiling cocons is extremely offensive. Hard by the harbour, there is a very curious mill
for twisting the silk, which goes by water. There is in the town of Nice, a well regulated
hospital for poor orphans of both sexes, where above one hundred of them are employed in dressing,
dyeing, spinning, and weaving the silk. In the villages of Provence, you see the poor women
in the streets spinning raw silk upon distaves: but here the same instrument is only used for
spinning hemp and flax; which last, however, is not of the growth of Nice--But lest I should
spin this letter to a tedious length, I will now wind up my bottom, and bid you heartily farewell.

LETTER XXIII

NICE, December 19, 1764.

SIR,--In my last, I gave you a succinct account of the silkworm, and the management of that
curious insect in this country. I shall now proceed to describe the methods of making wine and oil.

The vintage begins in September. The grapes being chosen and carefully picked, are put into
a large vat, where they are pressed by a man's naked feet, and the juices drawn off by a cock
below. When no more is procured by this operation, the bruised grapes are put into the press,
and yield still more liquor. The juice obtained by this double pressure, being put in casks,
with their bungs open, begins to ferment and discharge its impurities at the openings. The
waste occasioned by this discharge, is constantly supplied with fresh wine, so that the casks
are always full. The fermentation continues for twelve, fifteen, or twenty days, according
to the strength and vigour of the grape. In about a month, the wine is fit for drinking. When
the grapes are of a bad, meagre kind, the wine dealers mix the juice with pigeons'-dung or
quick-lime, in order to give it a spirit which nature has denied: but this is a very mischievous
adulteration.

The process for oil-making is equally simple. The best olives are those that grow wild; but
the quantity of them is very inconsiderable. Olives begin to ripen and drop in the beginning
of November: but some remain on the trees till February, and even till April, and these are
counted the most valuable. When the olives are gathered, they must be manufactured immediately,
before they fade and grow wrinkled, otherwise they will produce bad oil. They are first of
all ground into a paste by a mill-stone set edge-ways in a circular stone-trough, the wheel
being turned by water.

This paste is put into trails or circular cases made of grass woven, having a round hole at
top and bottom; when filled they resemble in shape our Cheshire cheeses. A number of these
placed one upon another, are put in a press, and being squeezed, the oil with all its impurities,
runs into a receptacle below fixed in the ground. From hence it is laded into a wooden vat,
half filled with water. The sordes or dirt falls to the bottom; the oil swims a-top; and being
skimmed off, is barrelled up in small oblong casks. What remains in the vat, is thrown into
a large stone cistern with water, and after being often stirred, and standing twelve or fourteen
days, yields a coarser oil used for lamps and manufactures. After these processes, they extract
an oil still more coarse and fetid from the refuse of the whole. Sometimes, in order to make
the olives grind the more easily into a paste, and part with more oil, they are mixed with
a little hot water: but the oil thus procured is apt to grow rancid. The very finest, called
virgin oil, is made chiefly of green olives, and sold at a very high price, because a great
quantity is required to produce a very little oil. Even the stuff that is left after all these
operations, consisting of the dried pulp, is sold for fuel, and used in brasieres for warming
apartments which have no chimney.

I have now specified all the manufactures of Nice which are worth mentioning. True it is, there
is some coarse paper made in this neighbourhood; there are also people here who dress skins
and make leather for the use of the inhabitants: but this business is very ill performed: the
gloves and shoes are generally rotten as they come from the hands of the maker. Carpenter's,
joiner's, and blacksmith's work is very coarsely and clumsily done. There are no chairs to
be had at Nice, but crazy things made of a few sticks, with rush bottoms, which are sold for
twelve livres a dozen. Nothing can be more contemptible than the hard-ware made in this place,
such as knives, scissors, and candle-snuffers. All utensils in brass and copper are very ill
made and finished. The silver-smiths make nothing but spoons, forks, paultry rings, and crosses
for the necks of the women.

The houses are built of a ragged stone dug from the mountains, and the interstices are filled
with rubble; so that the walls would appear very ugly, if they were not covered with plaister,
which has a good effect. They generally consist of three stories, and are covered with tiles.
The apartments of the better sort are large and lofty, the floors paved with brick, the roofs
covered with a thick coat of stucco, and the walls whitewashed. People of distinction hang
their chambers with damask, striped silk, painted cloths, tapestry, or printed linnen. All
the doors, as well as the windows, consist of folding leaves. As there is no wainscot in the
rooms, which are divided by stone partitions and the floors and cieling are covered with brick
and stucco, fires are of much less dreadful consequence here than in our country. Wainscot
would afford harbour for bugs: besides, white walls have a better effect in this hot climate.
The beds commonly used in this place, and all over Italy, consist of a paillasse, with one
or two mattrasses, laid upon planks, supported by two wooden benches. Instead of curtains there
is a couziniere or mosquito net, made of a kind of gauze, that opens and contracts occasionally,
and incloses the place where you lie: persons of condition, however, have also bedsteads and
curtains; but these last are never used in the summer.

In these countries, people of all ranks dine exactly at noon; and this is the time I seize
in winter, for making my daily tour of the streets and ramparts, which at all other hours of
the day are crowded with men, women, children and beasts of burthen. The rampart is the common
road for carriages of all kinds. I think there are two private coaches in Nice, besides that
of the commandant: but there are sedan chairs, which may be had at a reasonable rate. When
I bathed in the summer, I paid thirty sols, equal to eighteen-pence, for being carried to and
from the bathing place, which was a mile from my own house.

Now I am speaking of bathing, it may not be amiss to inform you that though there is a fine
open beach, extending several miles to the westward of Nice, those who cannot swim ought to
bathe with great precaution, as the sea is very deep, and the descent very abrupt from within
a yard or two of the water's edge. The people here were much surprised when I began to bathe
in the beginning of May. They thought it very strange, that a man seemingly consumptive should
plunge into the sea, especially when the weather was so cold; and some of the doctors prognosticated
immediate death. But, when it was perceived that I grew better in consequence of the bath,
some of the Swiss officers tried the same experiment, and in a few days, our example was followed
by several inhabitants of Nice. There is, however, no convenience for this operation, from
the benefit of which the fair sex must be intirely excluded, unless they lay aside all regard
to decorum; for the shore is always lined with fishing-boats, and crouded with people. If a
lady should be at the expence of having a tent pitched on the beach where she might put on
and of her bathing-dress, she could not pretend to go into the sea without proper attendants;
nor could she possibly plunge headlong into the water, which is the most effectual, and least
dangerous way of bathing. All that she can do is to have the sea-water brought into her house,
and make use of a bathing-tub, which may be made according to her own, or physician's direction.

What further I have to say of this climate and country, you shall have in my next; and then
you will be released from a subject, which I am afraid has been but too circumstantially handled
by-- Sir, Your very humble servant.

LETTER XXIV

NICE, January 4, 1765.

DEAR SIR.,--The constitution of this climate may be pretty well ascertained, from the inclosed
register of the weather, which I kept with all possible care and attention. From a perusal
of it, you will see that there is less rain and wind at Nice, than in any other part of the
world that I know; and such is the serenity of the air, that you see nothing above your head
for several months together, but a charming blue expanse, without cloud or speck. Whatever
clouds may be formed by evaporation of the sea, they seldom or never hover over this small
territory; but, in all probability, are attracted by the mountains that surround it, and there
fall in rain or snow: as for those that gather from other quarters, I suppose their progress
hitherward is obstructed by those very Alps, which rise one over another, to an extent of many
leagues. This air being dry, pure, heavy, and elastic, must be agreeable to the constitution
of those who labour under disorders arising from weak nerves, obstructed perspiration, relaxed
fibres, a viscidity of lymph, and a languid circulation. In other respects, it encourages the
scurvy, the atmosphere being undoubtedly impregnated with sea-salt. Ever since my arrival at
Nice, I have had a scorbutical eruption on my right hand, which diminishes and increases according
to the state of my health. One day last summer, when there was a strong breeze from the sea,
the surface of our bodies was covered with a salt brine, very perceptible to the taste; my
gums, as well as those of another person in my family, began to swell, and grow painful, though
this had never happened before; and I was seized with violent pains in the joints of my knees.
I was then at a country-house fronting the sea, and particularly exposed to the marine air.
The swelling of our gums subsided as the wind fell: but what was very remarkable, the scurvy-spot
on my hand disappeared, and did not return for a whole month. It is affirmed that sea-salt
will dissolve, and render the blood so fluid, that it will exude through the coats of the vessels.
Perhaps the sea-scurvy is a partial dissolution of it, by that mineral absorbed from the air
by the lymphatics on the surface of the body, and by those of the lungs in respiration. Certain
it is, in the last stages of the sea-scurvy, the blood often bursts from the pores; and this
phaenomenon is imputed to a high degree of putrefaction: sure enough it is attended with putrefaction.
We know that a certain quantity of salt is required to preserve the animal juices from going
putrid: but, how a greater quantity should produce putrefaction, I leave to wiser heads to
explain. Many people here have scorbutical complaints, though their teeth are not affected.
They are subject to eruptions on the skin, putrid gums, pains in the bones, lassitude, indigestion,
and low spirits; but the reigning distemper is a marasmus, or consumption, which proceeds gradually,
without any pulmonary complaint, the complexion growing more and more florid, 'till the very
last scene of the tragedy. This I would impute to the effects of a very dry, saline atmosphere,
upon a thin habit, in which there is an extraordinary waste by perspiration. The air is remarkably
salt in this district, because the mountains that hem it in, prevent its communication with
the circumambient atmosphere, in which the saline particles would otherwise be diffused; and
there is no rain, nor dew, to precipitate or dissolve them. Such an air as I have described,
should have no bad effect upon a moist, phlegmatic constitution, such as mine; and yet it must
be owned, I have been visibly wasting since I came hither, though this decay I considered as
the progress of the tabes which began in England. But the air of Nice has had a still more
sensible effect upon Mr. Sch--z, who laboured under nervous complaints to such a degree, that
life was a burthen to him. He had also a fixed pain in his breast, for which complaint he had
formerly tried the air of Naples, where he resided some considerable time, and in a great measure
recovered: but, this returning with weakness, faintness, low spirits, and entire loss of appetite,
he was advised to come hither; and the success of his journey has greatly exceeded his expectation.
Though the weather has been remarkably bad for this climate, he has enjoyed perfect health.
Since he arrived at Nice, the pain in his breast has vanished; he eats heartily, sleeps well,
is in high spirits, and so strong, that he is never off his legs in the day-time. He can walk
to the Var and back again, before dinner; and he has climbed to the tops of all the mountains
in this neighbourhood. I never saw before such sudden and happy effects from the change of
air. I must also acknowledge, that ever since my arrival at Nice, I have breathed more freely
than I had done for some years, and my spirits have been more alert. The father of my housekeeper,
who was a dancing-master, had been so afflicted with an asthmatic disorder, that he could not
live in France, Spain, or Italy; but found the air of Nice so agreeable to his lungs, that
he was enabled to exercise his profession for above twenty years, and died last spring turned
of seventy. Another advantage I have reaped from this climate is my being, in a great measure,
delivered from a slow fever which used to hang about me, and render life a burthen. Neither
am I so apt to catch cold as I used to be in England and France; and the colds I do catch are
not of the same continuance and consequence, as those to which I was formerly subject. The
air of Nice is so dry, that in summer, and even in winter, (except ill wet weather) you may
pass the evening, and indeed the whole night, sub Dio, without feeling the least dew or moisture;
and as for fogs, they are never seen in this district. In summer, the air is cooled by a regular
sea-breeze blowing from the cast, like that of the West-Indies. It begins in the forenoon,
and increases with the heat of the day. It dies away about six or seven; and immediately after
sun-set is succeeded by an agreeable land-breeze from the mountains. The sea-breeze from the
eastward, however, is not so constant here, as in the West-Indies between the tropicks, because
the sun, which produces it, is not so powerful. This country lies nearer the region of variable
winds, and is surrounded by mountains, capes, and straights, which often influence the constitution
and current of the air. About the winter solstice, the people of Nice expect wind and rain,
which generally lasts, with intervals, 'till the beginning of February: but even during this,
their worst weather, the sun breaks out occasionally, and you may take the air either a-foot
or on horseback every day; for the moisture is immediately absorbed by the earth, which is
naturally dry. They likewise lay their account with being visited by showers of rain and gusts
of wind in April. A week's rain in the middle of August makes them happy. It not only refreshes
the parched ground, and plumps up the grapes and other fruit, but it cools the air and assuages
the beets, which then begin to grow very troublesome; but the rainy season is about the autumnal
equinox, or rather something later. It continues about twelve days or a fortnight, and is extremely
welcome to the natives of this country. This rainy season is often delayed 'till the latter
end of November, and sometimes 'till the month of December; in which case, the rest of the
winter is generally dry. The heavy rains in this country generally come with a south-west wind,
which was the creberque procellis Africus, the stormy southwest, of the antients. It is here
called Lebeche, a corruption of Lybicus: it generally blows high for a day or two, and rolls
the Mediterranean before it in huge waves, that often enter the town of Nice. It likewise drives
before it all the clouds which had been formed above the surface of the Mediterranean. These
being expended in rain, fair weather naturally ensues. For this reason, the Nissards observe
le lebeche racommode le tems, the Lebeche settles the weather. During the rains of this season,
however, the winds have been variable. From the sixteenth of November, 'till the fourth of
January, we have had two and twenty days of heavy rain: a very extraordinary visitation in
this country: but the seasons seem to be more irregular than formerly, all over Europe. In
the month of July, the mercury in Fahrenheit's thermometer, rose to eighty-four at Rome, the
highest degree at which it was ever known in that country; and the very next day, the Sabine
mountains were covered with snow. The same phaemomenon happened on the eleventh of August,
and the thirtieth of September. The consequence of these sudden variations of weather, was
this: putrid fevers were less frequent than usual; but the sudden cheek of perspiration from
the cold, produced colds, inflammatory sore throats, and the rheumatism. I know instances of
some English valetudinarians, who have passed the winter at Aix, on the supposition that there
was little or no difference between that air and the climate of Nice: but this is a very great
mistake, which may be attended with fatal consequences. Aix is altogether exposed to the north
and north-west winds, which blow as cold in Provence, as ever I felt them on the mountains
of Scotland: whereas Nice is entirely screened from these winds by the Maritime Alps, which
form an amphitheatre, to the land-side, around this little territory: but another incontestible
proof of the mildness of this climate, is deduced from the oranges, lemons, citrons, roses,
narcissus's, july-flowers, and jonquils, which ripen and blow in the middle of winter. I have
described the agreeable side of this climate; and now I will point out its inconveniences.
In the winter, but especially in the spring, the sun is so hot, that one can hardly take exercise
of any sort abroad, without being thrown into a breathing sweat; and the wind at this season
is so cold and piercing, that it often produces a mischievous effect on the pores thus opened.
If the heat rarifies the blood and juices, while the cold air constringes the fibres, and obstructs
the perspiration, inflammatory disorders must ensue. Accordingly, the people are then subject
to colds, pleurisies, peripneumonies, and ardent fevers. An old count advised me to stay within
doors in March, car alors les humeurs commencent a se remuer, for then the humours begin to
be in motion. During the heats of summer, some few persons of gross habits have, in consequence
of violent exercise and excess, been seized with putrid fevers, attended with exanthemata,
erisipelatous, and miliary eruptions, which commonly prove fatal: but the people in general
are healthy, even those that take very little exercise: a strong presumption in favour of the
climate! As to medicine, I know nothing of the practice of the Nice physicians. Here are eleven
in all; but four or five make shift to live by the profession. They receive, by way of fee,
ten sols (an English six-pence) a visit, and this is but ill paid: so you may guess whether
they are in a condition to support the dignity of physic; and whether any man, of a liberal
education, would bury himself at Nice on such terms. I am acquainted with an Italian physician
settled at Villa Franca, a very good sort of a man, who practises for a certain salary, raised
by annual contribution among the better sort of people; and an allowance from the king, for
visiting the sick belonging to the garrison and the gallies. The whole may amount to near thirty
pounds.

Among the inconveniences of this climate, the vermin form no inconsiderable article. Vipers
and snakes are found in the mountains. Our gardens swarm with lizzards; and there are some
few scorpions; but as yet I have seen but one of this species. In summer, notwithstanding all
the care and precautions we can take, we are pestered with incredible swarms of flies, fleas,
and bugs; but the gnats, or couzins, are more intolerable than all the rest. In the day-time,
it is impossible to keep the flies out of your mouth, nostrils, eyes, and ears. They croud
into your milk, tea, chocolate, soup, wine, and water: they soil your sugar, contaminate your
victuals, and devour your fruit; they cover and defile your furniture, floors, cielings, and
indeed your whole body. As soon as candles are lighted, the couzins begin to buz about your
ears in myriads, and torment you with their stings, so that you have no rest nor respite 'till
you get into bed, where you are secured by your mosquito-net. This inclosure is very disagreeable
in hot weather; and very inconvenient to those, who, like me, are subject to a cough and spitting.
It is moreover ineffectual; for some of those cursed insects insinuate themselves within it,
almost every night; and half a dozen of them are sufficient to disturb you 'till morning. This
is a plague that continues all the year; but in summer it is intolerable. During this season,
likewise, the moths are so mischievous, that it requires the utmost care to preserve woollen
cloths from being destroyed. From the month of May, 'till the beginning of October, the heat
is so violent, that you cannot stir abroad after six in the morning 'till eight at night, so
that you are entirely deprived of the benefit of exercise: There is no shaded walk in, or near
the town; and there is neither coach nor chaise to hire, unless you travel post. Indeed, there
is no road fit for any wheel carriage, but the common highway to the Var, in which you are
scorched by the reflexion of the sun from the sand and stones, and at the same time half stifled
with dust. If you ride out in the cool of the evening, you will have the disadvantage of returning
in the dark.

Among the demerits of Nice, I must also mention the water which is used in the city. It is
drawn from wells; and for the most part so hard, that it curdles with soap. There are many
fountains and streams in the neighbourhood, that afford excellent water, which, at no great
charge, might be conveyed into the town, so as to form conduits in all the public streets:
but the inhabitants are either destitute of public spirit, or cannot afford the expense. [General
Paterson delivered a Plan to the King of Sardinia for supplying Nice with excellent water for
so small an expence as one livre a house per annum; but the inhabitants remonstrated against
it as an intolerable Imposition.] I have a draw-well in my porch, and another in my garden,
which supply tolerable water for culinary uses; but what we drink, is fetched from a well belonging
to a convent of Dominicans in this neighbourhood. Our linnen is washed in the river Paglion;
and when that is dry, in the brook called Limpia, which runs into the harbour.

In mentioning the water of this neighbourhood, I ought not to omit the baths of Rocabiliare,
a small town among the mountains, about five and twenty miles from Nice. There are three sources,
each warmer than the other; the warmest being nearly equal to the heat of the king's bath at
Bath in Somersetshire, as far as I can judge from information. I have perused a Latin manuscript,
which treats of these baths at Rocabiliare, written by the duke of Savoy's first physician
about sixty years ago. He talks much of the sulphur and the nitre which they contain; but I
apprehend their efficacy is owing to the same volatile vitriolic principle, which characterises
the waters at Bath. They are attenuating and deobstruent, consequently of service in disorders
arising from a languid circulation, a viscidity of the juices, a lax fibre, and obstructed
viscera. The road from hence to Rocabiliare is in some parts very dangerous, lying along the
brink of precipices, impassable to any other carriage but a mule. The town itself affords bad
lodging and accommodation, and little or no society. The waters are at the distance of a mile
and a half from the town: there are no baths nor shelter, nor any sort of convenience for those
that drink them; and the best part of their efficacy is lost, unless they are drank at the
fountain-head. If these objections were in some measure removed, I would advise valetudinarians,
who come hither for the benefit of this climate, to pass the heats of summer at Rocabiliare,
which being situated among mountains, enjoys a cool temperate air all the summer. This would
be a salutary respite from the salt air of Nice, to those who labour under scorbutical complaints;
and they would return with fresh vigour and spirits, to pass the winter in this place, where
no severity of weather is known. Last June, when I found myself so ill at my cassine, I had
determined to go to Rocabiliare, and even to erect a hut at the spring, for my own convenience.
A gentleman of Nice undertook to procure me a tolerable lodging in the house of the cure, who
was his relation. He assured me, there was no want of fresh butter, good poultry, excellent
veal, and delicate trout; and that the articles of living might be had at Rocabiliare for half
the price we paid at Nice: but finding myself grow better immediately on my return from the
cassine to my own house, I would not put myself to the trouble and expence of a further removal.

I think I have now communicated all the particulars relating to Nice, that are worth knowing;
and perhaps many more than you desired to know: but, in such cases, I would rather be thought
prolix and unentertaining, than deficient in that regard and attention with which I am very
sincerely,--Your friend and servant.

LETTER XXV

NICE, January 1, 1765.

DEAR SIR,--It was in deference to your opinion, reinforced by my own inclination, and the repeated
advice of other friends, that I resolved upon my late excursion to Italy. I could plainly perceive
from the anxious solicitude, and pressing exhortations contained in all the letters I had lately
received from my correspondents in Britain, that you had all despaired of my recovery. You
advised me to make a pilgrimage among the Alps, and the advice was good. In scrambling among
those mountains, I should have benefited by the exercise, and at the same time have breathed
a cool, pure, salubrious air, which, in all probability, would have expelled the slow fever
arising in a great measure from the heat of this climate. But, I wanted a companion and fellow
traveller, whose conversation and society could alleviate the horrors of solitude. Besides,
I was not strong enough to encounter the want of conveniences, and even of necessaries to which
I must have been exposed in the course of such an expedition. My worthy friend Dr. A-- earnestly
intreated me to try the effect of a sea-voyage, which you know has been found of wonderful
efficacy in consumptive cases. After some deliberation, I resolved upon the scheme, which I
have now happily executed. I had a most eager curiosity to see the antiquities of Florence
and Rome: I longed impatiently to view those wonderful edifices, statues, and pictures, which
I had so often admired in prints and descriptions. I felt an enthusiastic ardor to tread that
very classical ground which had been the scene of so many great atchievements; and I could
not bear the thought of returning to England from the very skirts of Italy, without having
penetrated to the capital of that renowned country. With regard to my health, I knew I could
manage matters so as to enjoy all the benefits that could be expected from the united energy
of a voyage by sea, a journey by land, and a change of climate.

