PREPARED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF THE OFFICE OF EXPERIMENT STATIONS, A. C. TRUE, DIRECTOR.

WASHINGTON:

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.

1917.

CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT.

***

INTRODUCTION.

The common fruits, because of their low nutritive value, are not, as a rule, estimated at their
real worth as food. Fruit has great dietetic value and should be used generously and wisely,
both fresh and cooked. Fruits supply a variety of flavors, sugar, acids, and a necessary waste
or bulky material for aiding in intestinal movement. They are generally rich in potash and
soda salts and other minerals. Most fresh fruits are cooling and refreshing. The vegetable
acids have a solvent power on the nutrients and are an aid to digestion when not taken in excess.

Fruit and fruit juices keep the blood in a healthy condition when the supply of fresh meat,
fish, and vegetables is limited and salt or smoked meats constitute the chief elements of diet.
Fresh fruit is generally more appetizing and refreshing than cooked. For this reason it is
often eaten in too large quantities, and frequently when underripe or overripe; but when of
good quality and eaten in moderate quantities it promotes healthy intestinal action and rarely
hurts anyone.

If eaten immoderately, uncooked fruit is apt to induce intestinal disturbances. If eaten unripe,
it often causes stomach and intestinal irritation; overripe, it has a tendency to ferment in
the alimentary canal. Cooking changes the character and flavor of fruit, and while the product
is not so cooling and refreshing as in the raw state, it can, as a rule, be eaten with less
danger of causing stomach or intestinal trouble. If sugar be added to the cooked fruit, the
nutritive value will be increased. A large quantity of sugar spoils the flavor of the fruit
and is likely to make it less easily digested.

Nowhere is there greater need of a generous supply of fruit than on the farm, where the diet
is apt to be restricted in variety because of the distance from markets. Every farmer should
raise a generous supply of the kinds of fruit that can be grown in his locality. Wives and
daughters on the farms should find pleasure in serving these fruits in the most healthful and
tempting form. There are a large number of simple, dainty desserts that can be prepared with
fruit and without much labor. Such desserts should leave the pie as an occasional luxury instead
of allowing it to be considered a daily necessity.

In the season when each kind of fruit is plentiful and at its best a generous supply should
be canned for the season when both fruit and fresh vegetables are scarce. A great deal of the
fruit should be canned with little or no sugar, that it may be as nearly as possible in the
condition of fresh fruit. This is the best condition for cooking purposes. A supply of glass
jars does cost something, but that item of expense should be charged to future years, as with
proper care the breaking of a jar need be a rare occurrence. If there be an abundance of grapes
and small, juicy fruits, plenty of juice should be canned or bottled for refreshing drinks
throughout the year. Remember that the fruit and juice are not luxuries, but an addition to
the dietary that will mean better health for the members of the family and greater economy
in the cost of the table.

FRESH AND PRESERVED FRUIT FOR THE MARKET.

If the supply of fruit is greater than the family needs, it may be made a source of income
by sending the fresh fruit to the market, if there is one near enough, or by preserving, canning,
and making jelly for sale. To make such an enterprise a success the fruit and work must be
first class. There is magic in the word "Homemade," when the product appeals to the eye and
the palate; but many careless and incompetent people have found to their sorrow that this word
has not magic enough to float inferior goods on the market. As a rule large canning and preserving
establishments are clean and have the best appliances, and they employ chemists and skilled
labor. The home product must be very good to compete with the attractive goods that are sent
out from such establishments. Yet for first-class homemade products there is a market in all
large cities. All first-class grocers have customers who purchase such goods.

To secure a market get the names of several first-class grocers in some of the large towns.
Write to them asking if they would be willing to try a sample of your goods. If the answer
is favorable, send samples of the articles you wish to sell. In the box with the fruit inclose
a list of the articles sent and the price. Write your name and address clearly. Mail a note
and a duplicate list at the time you send the box.

Fixing the price of the goods is important. Make it high enough to cover all expenses and give
you a fair return for your labor. The expenses will be the fruit, sugar, fuel, jars, glasses,
boxes, packing material, wear and tear of utensils, etc., transportation, and commission. The
commission will probably be 20 per cent of the selling price. It may be that a merchant will
find that your prices are too high or too low for his trade, or he may wish to purchase the
goods outright. In any case it is essential that you estimate the full cost of the product
and the value that you place on your labor. You will then be in a position to decide if the
prices offered will compensate you for the labor and expense. Do not be tempted, for the sake
of a little money, to deprive your family of the fruit necessary to health and pleasure.

PACKING AND SHIPPING.

Each jar or jelly glass must be wrapped in several thicknesses of soft paper (newspapers will
answer). Make pads of excelsior or hay by spreading a thick layer between the folds of newspapers.
Line the bottom and sides of the box with these pads. Pack the fruit in the padded box. Fill
all the spaces between the jars with the packing material. If the box is deep and a second
layer of fruit is to go in, put thick pasteboard or thin boards over the first layer and set
the wrapped jars on this. Fill all the spaces and cover the top with the packing material.
Nail on the cover and mark clearly: GLASS. THIS SIDE UP.

The great secret in packing is to fill every particle of space so that nothing can move.

PRINCIPLES OF CANNING AND PRESERVING.

In the preservation of foods by canning, preserving, etc., the most essential things in the
processes are the sterilization of the food and all the utensils and the sealing of the sterilized
food to exclude all germs.

BACTERIA, YEASTS, AND FERMENTATION.

Over one hundred years ago François Appert was the first to make practical application of the
method of preserving food by putting it in cans or bottles, which he hermetically sealed. He
then put the full bottles or cans in water and boiled them for more or less time, depending
upon the kinds of food.

In Appert's time and, indeed, until recent years it was generally thought that the oxygen of
the air caused the decomposition of food. Appert's theory was that the things essential to
the preservation of food in this manner were the exclusion of air and the application of gentle
heat, as in the water bath, which caused a fusion of the principal constituents and ferments
in such a manner that the power of the ferments was destroyed.

The investigations of scientists, particularly of Pasteur, have shown that it is not the oxygen
of the air which causes fermentation and putrefaction, but bacteria and other microscopic organisms.

Appert's theory as to the cause of the spoiling of food was incorrect, but his method of preserving
it by sealing and cooking was correct, and the world owes him a debt of gratitude.

In their investigations scientists have found that if food is perfectly sterilized and the
opening of the jar or bottle plugged with sterilized cotton, food will not ferment, for the
bacteria and yeasts to which such changes are due can not pass through the cotton. This method
can not be conveniently followed with large jars.

Bacteria and yeasts exist in the air, in the soil, and on all vegetable and animal substances,
and even in the living body, but although of such universal occurrence, the true knowledge
of their nature and economic importance has only been gained during the last forty years.

There are a great many kinds of these micro-organisms. Some do great harm, but it is thought
that the greater part of them are beneficial rather than injurious.

Bacteria are one-celled and so small they can only be seen by aid of a microscope. The process
of reproduction is simple and rapid. The bacterium becomes constricted, divides, and finally
there are two cells instead of one. Under favorable conditions each cell divides, and so rapid
is the work that it has been estimated that one bacterium may give rise, within twenty-four
hours, to seventeen millions of similar organisms. The favorable conditions for growth are
moisture, warmth, and proper food.

Yeasts, which are also one-celled organisms, grow less rapidly. A bud develops, breaks off,
and forms a new yeast plant. Some yeasts and some kinds of bacteria produce spores. Spores,
like the dried seeds of plants, may retain their vitality for a long time, even when exposed
to conditions which kill the parent organism.

Yeasts and nearly all bacteria require oxygen, but there are species of the latter that seem
to grow equally well without it, so that the exclusion of air, which, of course, contains oxygen,
is not always a protection, if one of the anaerobic bacteria, as the kinds are called which
do not require oxygen, is sealed in the can.

Spoiling of food is caused by the development of bacteria or yeasts. Certain chemical changes
are produced as shown by gases, odors, and flavors.

Bacteria grow luxuriantly in foods containing a good deal of nitrogenous material, if warmth
and moisture are present. Among foods rich in nitrogenous substances are all kinds of meat,
fish, eggs, peas, beans, lentils, milk, etc. These foods are difficult to preserve on account
of the omnipresent bacteria. This is seen in warm, muggy weather, when fresh meat, fish, soups,
milk, etc., spoil quickly. Bacteria do not develop in substances containing a large percentage
of sugar, but they grow rapidly in a suitable wet substance which contains a small percentage
of sugar. Yeasts grow very readily in dilute solutions containing sugars in addition to some
nitrogenous and mineral matters. Fruits are usually slightly acid and in general do not support
bacterial growth, and so it comes about that canned fruits are more commonly fermented by yeasts
than by bacteria.

Some vegetable foods have so much acid and so little nitrogenous substance that very few bacteria
or yeasts attack them. Lemons, cranberries, and rhubarb belong to this class.

Temperature is an important factor in the growth of bacteria and yeasts. There are many kinds
of these organisms, and each kind grows best at a certain temperature, some at a very low one
and others at one as high as 125° F., or more. However, most kinds of bacteria are destroyed
if exposed for ten or fifteen minutes to the temperature of boiling water (212° F.); but, if
the bacteria are spore producers, cooking must be continued for an hour or more to insure their
complete destruction. Generally speaking, in order to kill the spores the temperature must
be higher than that of boiling water, or the article to be preserved must be cooked for about
two hours at a temperature of 212° F., or a shorter time at a higher temperature under pressure.
Yeasts and their spores are, however, more easily destroyed by heat than bacteria spores. Hence,
fruits containing little nitrogenous material are more easily protected from fermentation than
nitrogenous foods in which in general fermentation is caused by bacteria. Of course, it is
not possible to know what kinds of organisms are in the food one is about to can or bottle;
but we do know that most fruits are not favorable to the growth of bacteria, and, as a rule,
the yeasts which grow in fruits and fruit juice can be destroyed by cooking ten or fifteen
minutes at a temperature of 212° F. If no living organisms are left, and the sterilization
of all appliances has been thorough, there is no reason why the fruit, if properly sealed,
should not keep, with but slight change of texture or flavor, for a year or longer, although
canned fruits undergo gradual change and deterioration even under the most favorable conditions.
However, the self-sealing jars are much better than keeping such fruit in large receptacles,
from which it is taken as needed, because molds grow freely on moist, sugary substances exposed
to the air.

MOLDS AND MOLDING.

Every housekeeper is familiar with molds which, under favorable conditions of warmth and moisture,
grow upon almost any kind of organic material. This is seen in damp, warm weather, when molds
form in a short time on all sorts of starchy foods, such as boiled potatoes, bread, mush, etc.,
as well as fresh, canned, and preserved fruits.

Molds develop from spores which are always floating about in the air. When a spore falls upon
a substance containing moisture and suitable food it sends out a fine thread, which branches
and works its way over and into the attacked substance. In a short time spores are produced
and the work of reproduction goes on.

In the first stages molds are white or light gray and hardly noticeable; but when spores develop
the growth gradually becomes colored. In fact, the conditions of advanced growth might be likened
to those of a flower garden. The threads--mycelium--might be likened to the roots of plants
and the spores to the flower and seeds.

Mold spores are very light and are blown about by the wind. They are a little heavier than
air, and drop on shelves, tables, and floor, and are easily set in motion again by the movement
of a brush, duster, etc. If one of these spores drops on a jar of preserves or a tumbler of
jelly, it will germinate if there be warmth and moisture enough in the storeroom. Molds do
not ordinarily cause fermentation of canned foods, although they are the common cause of the
decay of raw fruits. They are not as injurious to canned goods as are bacteria and yeasts.
They do not penetrate deeply into preserves or jellies, or into liquids or semiliquids, but
if given time they will, at ordinary room temperature, work all through suitable solid substances
which contain moisture. Nearly every housekeeper has seen this in the molding of a loaf of
bread or cake.

In the work of canning, preserving, and jelly making it is important that the food shall be
protected from the growth of molds as well as the growth of yeasts and bacteria.

To kill mold spores food must be exposed to a temperature of from 150° F. to 212° F. After
this it should be kept in a cool, dry place and covered carefully that no floating spore can
find lodgment on its surface.

STERILIZATION.

To sterilize a substance or thing is to destroy all life and sources of life in and about it.
In following the brief outline of the structure and work of bacteria, yeasts, and molds, it
has been seen that damage to foods comes through the growth of these organisms on or in the
food; also that if such organisms are exposed to a temperature of 212° F., life will be destroyed,
but that spores and a few resisting bacteria are not destroyed at a temperature of 212° F.,
unless exposed to it for two or more hours.

Bacteria and yeasts, which are intimately mixed with food, are not as easily destroyed as are
those on smooth surfaces, such as the utensils and jars employed in the preparation of the food.

Since air and water, as well as the foods, contain bacteria and yeasts, and may contain mold
spores, all utensils used in the process of preserving foods are liable to be contaminated
with these organisms. For this reason all appliances, as well as the food, must be sterilized.

Stewpans, spoons, strainers, etc., may be put on the fire in cold or boiling water and boiled
ten or fifteen minutes. Tumblers, bottles, glass jars, and covers should be put in cold water
and heated gradually to the boiling point, and then boiled for ten or fifteen minutes. The
jars must be taken one at a time from the boiling water at the moment they are to be filled
with the boiling food. The work should be done in a well swept and dusted room, and the clothing
of the workers and the towels used should be clean. The food to be sterilized should be perfectly
sound and clean.

As in this bulletin we have only to do with fruits, it will not be necessary to say anything
more about long cooking at a high temperature.

In canning fruits it is well to remember that the product is more satisfactory if heated gradually
to the boiling point and then cooked the given time.

UTENSILS NEEDED FOR CANNING AND PRESERVING. The preserving kettles should be porcelain lined,
enameled, or of a metal that will not form troublesome chemical combinations with fruit juices.
The kettles should be broad rather than deep, as the fruit should not be cooked in deep layers.
Nearly all the necessary utensils may be found in some ware not subject to chemical action.
A list of the most essential articles follows:

Two preserving kettles, 1 colander, 1 fine strainer, 1 skimmer, 1 ladle, 1 large-mouthed funnel,
1 wire frying basket, 1 wire sieve, 4 long-handled wooden spoons, 1 wooden masher, a few large
pans, knives for paring fruit (plated if possible), flat-bottomed clothes boiler, wooden or
willow rack to put in the bottom of the boiler, iron tripod or ring, squares of cheese cloth.
In addition, it would be well to have a flannel straining bag, a frame on which to hang the
bag, a sirup gauge and a glass cylinder, a fruit pricker, and plenty of clean towels.

The regular kitchen pans will answer for holding and washing the fruit. Mixing bowls and stone
crocks can be used for holding the fruit juice and pared fruit. When fruit is to be plunged
into boiling water for a few minutes before paring, the ordinary stewpans may be employed for
this purpose.

Scales are a desirable article in every kitchen, as weighing is much more accurate than the
ordinary measuring. But, knowing that a large percentage of the housekeepers do not possess
scales, it has seemed wise to give all the rules in measure rather than weight.

If canning is done by the oven process, a large sheet of asbestos, for the bottom of the oven,
will prevent the cracking of jars.

The wooden rack, on which the bottles rest in the washboiler, is made in this manner: Have
two strips of wood measuring 1 inch high, 1 inch wide, and 2 inches shorter than the length
of the boiler. On these pieces of wood tack thin strips of wood that are 1½ inches shorter
than the width of the boiler. These cross-strips should be about 1 inch wide, and there should
be an inch between two strips. This rack will support the jars and will admit the free circulation
of boiling water about them. Young willow branches, woven into a mat, also make a good bed
for bottles and jars.

The wire basket is a saver of time and strength (fig. 1). The fruit to be peeled is put into
the basket, which is lowered into a deep kettle partially filled with boiling water. After
a few minutes the basket is lifted from the boiling water, plunged for a moment into cold water,
and the fruit is ready to have the skin drawn off.

A strong wire sieve is a necessity when purées of fruit are to be made (fig. 2). These sieves
are known as purée sieves. They are made of strong wire and in addition have supports of still
stronger wire.

A fruit pricker is easily made and saves time (fig. 3). Cut a piece half an inch deep from
a broad cork; press through this a dozen or more coarse darning needles; tack the cork on a
piece of board. Strike the fruit on the bed of needles, and you have a dozen holes at once.
When the work is finished, remove the cork from the board, wash and dry thoroughly. A little
oil on the needles will prevent rusting. With needles of the size suggested there is little
danger of the points breaking, but it is worth remembering that the use of pricking machines
was abandoned in curing prunes on a commercial scale in California because the steel needles
broke and remained in the fruit.

A wooden vegetable masher is indispensable when making jellies and purées (fig. 4).

A sirup gauge and glass cylinder (fig. 5 A and B) are not essential to preserving, canning,
and jelly making, but they are valuable aids in getting the right proportion of sugar for fruit
or jelly. The sirup gauge costs about 50 cents and the cylinder about 25 cents. A lipped cylinder
that holds a little over a gill is the best size.

Small iron rings, such as sometimes come off the hub of cart wheels, may be used instead of
a tripod for slightly raising the preserving kettles from the hot stove or range.

To make a flannel straining bag, take a square piece of flannel (27 by 27 inches is a good
size), fold it to make a three-cornered bag, stitch one of the sides, cut the top square across,
bind the opening with strong, broad tape, stitch on this binding four tapes with which to tie
the bag to a frame.

To use this bag, tie it to a strong frame or to the backs of two kitchen chairs. If the chairs
are used, place some heavy articles in them; or the bag may hang on a pole (a broom handle)
which rests on the backs of the chairs. A high stool turned upside down makes a good support
for the bag. Put a bowl on the floor under the bag, then pour in the fruit juice, which will
pass through comparatively clear.

Before it is used the bag should be washed and boiled in clear water.

SELECTION AND PREPARATION OF THE FRUIT.

The selection of fruit is one of the first steps in obtaining successful results. The flavor
of fruit is not developed until it is fully ripe, but the time at which the fruit is at its
best for canning, jelly making, etc., is just before it is perfectly ripe. In all soft fruits
the fermentative stage follows closely upon the perfectly ripe stage; therefore it is better
to use underripe rather than overripe fruit. This is especially important in jelly making for
another reason also: In overripe fruit the pectin begins to lose its jelly-making quality.

The preparation of fruit for the various processes of preserving is the second important step.
System will do much to lighten the work.

If the fruit is to be preserved or canned with sirup, it may be put into the jars as fast as
it is prepared. As soon as a jar is full, pour in enough sirup to cover it.

If several people are helping and large kettles are being used for the preserving, or where
fruit (like quinces and hard pears) must be first boiled in clear water, the pared fruit should
be dropped into a bowl of cold water made slightly acid with lemon juice (one tablespoonful
of lemon juice to a quart of water). This will keep the fruit white.

All large, hard fruit must be washed before paring. Quinces should be rubbed with a coarse
towel before they are washed.

If berries must be washed, do the work before stemming or hulling them. The best way to wash
berries is to put a small quantity into a colander and pour cold water over them; then turn
them on a sieve to drain. All this work must be done quickly that the fruit may not absorb
much water.

Do not use the fingers for hulling strawberries. A simple huller can be bought for five cents.

If practicable pare fruit with a silver knife, so as not to stain or darken the product. The
quickest and easiest way to peel peaches is to drop them into boiling water for a few minutes.
Have a deep kettle a little more than half full of boiling water; fill a wire basket with peaches;
put a long-handled spoon under the handle of the basket and lower into the boiling water. At
the end of three minutes lift the basket out by slipping the spoon under the handle. Plunge
the basket for a moment into a pan of cold water. Let the peaches drain a minute, then peel.
Plums and tomatoes may be peeled in the same manner.

If the peaches are to be canned in sirup, put them at once into the sterilized jars. They may
be canned whole or in halves. If in halves, remove nearly all the stones or pits. For the sake
of the flavor, a few stones should be put in each jar.

When preparing cherries, plums, or crab apples for canning or preserving, the stem or a part
of it may be left on the fruit.

When preparing to make jelly have ready the cheese-cloth strainer, enameled colander, wooden
spoons, vegetable masher, measures, tumblers, preserving kettles, and sugar.

If currant jelly is to be made, free the fruit from leaves and large stems. If the jelly is
to be made from any of the other small fruits, the stems and hulls must be removed.

When the jelly is to be made from any of the large fruits the important part of the preparation
is to have the fruit washed clean, then to remove the stem and the blossom end. Nearly all
the large fruits are better for having the skin left on. Apples and pears need not be cored.
There is so much gummy substance in the cores of quinces that it is best not to use this portion
in making fine jelly.

MAKING SIRUP FOR USE IN CANNING AND PRESERVING.

Such sirups as are used in canning and preserving are made with varying proportions of water
and sugar. When the proportion of sugar is large and that of the water small the sirup is said
to be heavy. When the water predominates the sirup is light.

There are several methods of measuring the proportion of sugar in a sirup. The most scientific
and accurate is with the sirup gauge. Careful measurement or weighing is, however, quite satisfactory
for all ordinary work if the sirup need not be boiled a long time. In boiling the water evaporates
and the sirup grows thicker and richer. The amount of evaporation depends upon the surface
exposed and the pressure of the atmosphere. For example, if a large quantity of sirup is boiled
in a deep kettle the evaporation will not be rapid. If the same quantity of sirup were boiled
the same length of time in a broad, shallow kettle the water would evaporate more rapidly and
the sirup would be thicker and heavier. If a given quantity of sirup were boiled the same length
of time in a high altitude, Colorado for example, and at the sea level, it would be found that
the sirup boiled at the sea level would be thicker and less in volume than that boiled in Colorado.
From this it will be seen that it is difficult to say what proportion of sugar a sirup will
contain after it has been boiling ten or more minutes. Of course by the use of the sirup gauge
the proportion of sugar in a sirup may be ascertained at any stage of the boiling. After all,
however, it is possible to measure sugar and water so that you can know the percentage of sugar
when the sirup begins to boil. The following statement gives the percentage of sugar at the
time when the sirup has been boiling one minute and also what kind of sirup is suitable for
the various kinds of fruit:

      One pint sugar and 1 gill of water gives sirup of 40°
      density: Use for preserved strawberries and cherries.

      One pint sugar and one-half pint water gives sirup of 32°
      density.

      One pint sugar and 3 gills water gives sirup of 28°
      density: Use either this or the preceding for preserved
      peaches, plums, quinces, currants, etc.

      One pint sugar and 1 pint water gives sirup of 24° density:
      Use for canned acid fruits.

      One pint sugar and 1½ pints water gives sirup of 17°
      density.

      One pint sugar and 2 pints water gives sirup of 14°
      density: Use either of these two light sirups for canned
      pears, peaches, sweet plums, and cherries, raspberries,
      blueberries, and blackberries.

The lightest sirups may be used for filling up the jars after they are taken from the oven
or boiler. The process of making a sirup is very simple, but there are a few points that must
be observed if sirup and fruit are to be perfect. Put the sugar and water in the saucepan and
stir on the stove until all the sugar is dissolved. Heat slowly to the boiling point and boil
gently without stirring. The length of time that the sirup should boil will depend upon how
rich it is to be. All sirups are better for boiling from ten to thirty minutes. If rich sirups
are boiled hard, jarred, or stirred they are apt to crystallize. The sirup may be made a day
or two in advance of canning time. The light sirups will not keep long unless sealed, but the
heavy sirups keep well if covered well.

USE OF THE SIRUP GAUGE.

The sirup gauge is a graduated glass tube, with a weighted bulb, that registers from 0° to
50°, and that is employed to determine the quantity of sugar contained in a sirup.

If this gauge is placed in pure water the bulb will rest on the bottom of the cylinder or other
container. If sugar be dissolved in the water the gauge will begin to float. The more sugar
there is dissolved in the water the higher the gauge will rise. In making tests it is essential
that the sirup should be deep enough to reach the zero point of the gauge. If a glass cylinder
holding about half a gill is filled to about two-thirds its height, and the gauge is then placed
in the cylinder, the quantity of sugar in the sirup will be registered on the gauge.

Experiments have demonstrated that when sugar is dissolved and heated in fruit juice, if the
sirup gauge registers 25°, the proportion of sugar is exactly right for combining with the
pectin bodies to make jelly. The sirup gauge and the glass cylinder must both be heated gradually
that the hot sirup may not break them. If the gauge registers more than 25°, add a little more
fruit juice. If, on the other hand, it registers less than 25°, add more sugar. In making sirups
for canning and preserving fruits, the exact amount of sugar in a sirup may be ascertained
at any stage of boiling, and the sirup be made heavier by adding sugar, or lighter by adding
water, as the case demands.

CANNING FRUIT.

This method of preserving fruit for home use is from all points the most desirable. It is the
easiest and commonly considered the most economical and the best, because the fruit is kept
in a soft and juicy condition in which it is believed to be easily digested. The wise housekeeper
will can her principal fruit supply, making only enough rich preserves to serve for variety
and for special occasions.

The success of canning depends upon absolute sterilization. If the proper care is exercised
there need be no failure, except in rare cases, when a spore has developed in the can. There
are several methods of canning; and while the principle is the same in all methods, the conditions
under which the housekeeper must do her work may, in her case, make one method more convenient
than another. For this reason three will be given which are considered the best and easiest.
The quantity of sugar may be increased if the fruit is liked sweet. Having the jars, covers,
and rings in perfect condition, the next thing is to wash and sterilize them. Set the jar in
the shallow milk pan and fill to overflowing with the boiling fruit. Slip a silver-plated knife
or the handle of a spoon around the inside of the jar, that the fruit and juice may be packed
solidly. Place the jar on a board and out of a draft of cold air. The work of filling and sealing
must be done rapidly, and the fruit must be boiling hot when it is put into the jars. If screw
covers are used, it will be necessary to tighten them after the glass has cooled and contracted.

In canning, any proportion of sugar may be used, or fruit may be canned without the addition
of any sugar. However, that which is designed to be served as a sauce should have the sugar
cooked with it. Fruit intended for cooking purposes need not have the sugar added to it.

Juicy fruits, such as berries and cherries, require little or no water. Strawberries are better
not to have water added to them. The only exception to this is when they are cooked in a heavy
sirup.

RASPBERRIES.

    12 quarts of raspberries.
    2 quarts of sugar.

Put 2 quarts of the fruit in the preserving kettle; heat slowly on the stove; crush with a
wooden vegetable masher; spread a square of cheese cloth over a bowl, and turn the crushed
berries and juice into it. Press out the juice, which turn into the preserving kettle. Add
the sugar and put on the stove; stir until the sugar is dissolved. When the sirup begins to
boil, add the remaining 10 quarts of berries. Let them heat slowly. Boil ten minutes, counting
from the time they begin to bubble. Skim well while boiling. Put in cans and seal as directed.

RASPBERRIES AND CURRANTS.

    10 quarts of raspberries.
    3 quarts of currants.

BLACKBERRIES.

The same as for raspberries.

CURRANTS.

    12 quarts of currants.
    4 quarts of sugar.

Treat the same as for raspberries.

GOOSEBERRIES.

    6 quarts of berries.
    1½ quarts of sugar.
    1 pint of water.

For green gooseberries dissolve the sugar in the water, then add the fruit and cook fifteen
minutes. Ripe gooseberries are to be treated the same as the green fruit, but use only half
as much water. Green gooseberries may also be canned the same as rhubarb (see p. 18).

BLUEBERRIES.

    12 quarts of berries.
    1 quart of sugar.

CHERRIES.

    6 quarts of cherries.
    1½ quarts of sugar.
    ½ pint of water.

Measure the cherries after the stems have been removed. Stone them or not, as you please. If
you stone them be careful to save all the juice. Put the sugar and water in the preserving
kettle and stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved. Put in the cherries and heat slowly
to the boiling point. Boil ten minutes, skimming carefully.

GRAPES.

    6 quarts of grapes.
    1 quart of sugar.
    1 gill of water.

Squeeze the pulp of the grapes out of the skins. Cook the pulp five minutes and then rub through
a sieve that is fine enough to hold back the seeds. Put the water, skins, and pulp into the
preserving kettle and heat slowly to the boiling point. Skim the fruit and then add the sugar.
Boil fifteen minutes.

Sweet grapes may be canned with less sugar; very sour ones may have more.

RHUBARB.

Cut the rhubarb when it is young and tender. Wash it thoroughly and then pare; cut into pieces
about 2 inches long. Pack in sterilized jars. Fill the jars to overflowing with cold water
and let them stand ten minutes. When required for use, treat the same as fresh rhubarb.

Green gooseberries may be canned in the same manner. Rhubarb may be cooked and canned with
sugar in the same manner as gooseberries.

PEACHES.

    8 quarts of peaches.
    1 quart of sugar.
    3 quarts of water.

Put the sugar and water together and stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved. When
the sirup boils skim it. Draw the kettle back where the sirup will keep hot but not boil.

Pare the peaches, cut in halves, and remove the stones, unless you prefer to can the fruit whole.

Put a layer of the prepared fruit into the preserving kettle and cover with some of the hot
sirup. If the fruit is not fully ripe it may require a little longer time to cook. It should
be so tender that it may be pierced easily with a silver fork. It is best to put only one layer
of fruit in the preserving kettle. While this is cooking the fruit for the next batch may be pared.

QUINCES.

    4 quarts of pared, cored, and quartered quinces.
    1½ quarts of sugar.
Pare, quarter, and core; drop the pieces into cold water (see p. 13).

CRAB APPLES.

    6 quarts of apples.
    1½ quarts of sugar.
    2 quarts of water. When the sirup boils skim it.

Wash the fruit, rubbing the blossom end well. Put it in the boiling sirup, and cook gently
until tender. It will take from twenty to fifty minutes, depending upon the kind of crab apples.

PLUMS.

    8 quarts of plums.
    2 quarts of sugar.
    1 pint of water.

Nearly all kinds of plums can be cooked with the skins on. If it is desired to remove the skin
of any variety, plunge them in boiling water for a few minutes. When the skins are left on,
prick them thoroughly to prevent bursting. Wash and drain the plums. Put some of the fruit
in the boiling sirup. Do not crowd it. Cook five minutes; fill and seal the jars. Put more
fruit in the sirup. Continue in this manner until all the fruit is done. It may be that there
will not be sufficient sirup toward the latter part of the work; for this reason it is well
to have a little extra sirup on the back of the stove.

STEWED TOMATOES.

Wash the tomatoes and plunge into boiling water for five minutes. Pare and slice, and then
put into the preserving kettle; set the kettle on an iron ring. Heat the tomatoes slowly, stirring
frequently from the bottom. Boil for thirty minutes, counting from the time the vegetable begins
actually to boil. Put in sterilized jars and seal.

WHOLE TOMATOES.

    8 quarts of medium-sized tomatoes.
    4 quarts of sliced tomatoes.

Put the pared and sliced tomatoes into a stewpan and cook as directed for stewed tomatoes.
When they have been boiling twenty minutes take from the fire and rub through a strainer. Return
to the fire.

While the sliced tomatoes are cooking, pare the whole tomatoes and put them in sterilized jars.
Pour into the jars enough of the stewed and strained tomato to fill all the interstices. Put
the uncovered jars in a moderate oven, placing them on a pad of asbestos or in shallow pans
of hot water. Let the vegetable cook in the oven for half an hour. Take from the oven and fill
to overflowing with boiling hot, strained tomato, then seal. If there is any of the strained
tomato left, can it for sauces.

CANNED FRUIT COOKED IN THE OVEN.

This method of canning fruit, in the opinion of the writer, is the one to be preferred. It
is very cheap and may usually be found at plumbers' shops. If the asbestos is not available,
put into the oven shallow pans in which there are about two inches of boiling water.

Sterilize the jars and utensils. Make the sirup; prepare the fruit the same as for cooking
in the preserving kettle. Fill the hot jars with it, and pour in enough sirup to fill the jar
solidly. Run the blade of a silver-plated knife around the inside of the jar. Place the jars
in the oven, either on the asbestos or in the pan of water. The oven should be moderately hot.
Cook the fruit ten minutes; remove from the oven and fill the jar with boiling sirup.

The amount of sugar in each quart of sirup should be regulated to suit the fruit with which
it is to be used. The data on page 14 will be a guide. The quantities given will not make the
fruit very sweet. The quantity of sugar may be increased or diminished to suit the taste.

CANNED FRUIT COOKED IN A WATER BATH.

Prepare the fruit and sirup as for cooking in the oven.

Fill the sterilized jars and put the covers on loosely. Have a wooden rack in the bottom of
a wash boiler (see p. 10). Put in enough warm water to come to about 4 inches above the rack.
Place the filled jars in the boiler, but do not let them touch one another.

Draw the boiler back and take off the cover. Put the jars on a board and do not let cold air
blow upon them. If screw covers are used tighten them when the glass has cooled and contracted.

PRESERVING FRUIT.

In the case of most fruits, canning with a little sugar is to be preferred to preserving with
a large quantity of sugar. There are, however, some fruits that are only good when preserved
with a good deal of sugar. Of course, such preparations of fruit are only desirable for occasional
use. The fruits best adapted for preserving are strawberries, sour cherries, sour plums, and
quinces. Such rich preparations should be put up in small jars or tumblers.

STRAWBERRIES.

Use equal weights of sugar and strawberries. Put the strawberries in the preserving kettle
in layers, sprinkling sugar over each layer. The fruit and sugar should not be more than 4
inches deep. Place the kettle on the stove and heat the fruit and sugar slowly to the boiling
point. When it begins to boil skim carefully. Boil ten minutes, counting from the time the
fruit begins to bubble. Pour the cooked fruit into platters, having it about 2 or 3 inches
deep. Place the platters in a sunny window, in an unused room, for three or four days. In that
time the fruit will grow plump and firm, and the sirup will thicken almost to a jelly. Put
this preserve, cold, into jars or tumblers.

WHITE CURRANTS.

Select large, firm fruit, remove the stems, and proceed as for strawberries.

CHERRIES.

The sour cherries, such as Early Richmond and Montmorency, are best for this preserve. Remove
the stems and stones from the cherries and proceed as for strawberry preserve.

CHERRIES PRESERVED WITH CURRANT JUICE.

    12 quarts of cherries.
    3 quarts of currants.
    2 quarts of sugar.

Put the currants in the preserving kettle and on the fire. When they boil up crush them and
strain through cheese cloth, pressing out all the juice.

Stem and stone the cherries, being careful to save all the juice. Put the cherries, fruit juice,
and sugar in the preserving kettle. Heat to the boiling point and skim carefully. Boil for
twenty minutes. Put in sterilized jars or tumblers. This gives an acid preserve. The sugar
may be doubled if richer preserves are desired.

PLUM PRESERVE.

    4 quarts of green gages.
    2 quarts of sugar.
    1 pint of water.

Prick the fruit and put it in a preserving kettle. Cover generously with cold water. Heat to
the boiling point and boil gently for five minutes. Drain well. Boil five minutes, skimming
well. Put the drained green gages in this sirup and cook gently for twenty minutes. Put in
sterilized jars.

Other plums may be preserved in the same manner. The skins should be removed from white plums.

QUINCES.

    4 quarts of pared, quartered, and cored quinces.
    2 quarts of sugar.
    1 quart of water.

Boil the fruit in clear water until it is tender, then skim out and drain.

Put the 2 quarts of sugar and 1 quart of water in the preserving kettle; stir until the sugar
is dissolved. Let it heat slowly to the boiling point. Skim well and boil for twenty minutes.
Pour one-half of the sirup into a second kettle. Put one-half of the cooked and drained fruit
into each kettle. Simmer gently for half an hour, then put in sterilized jars. The water in
which the fruit was boiled can be used with the parings, cores, and gnarly fruit to make jelly.

FRUIT PURÉES.

Purées of fruit are in the nature of marmalades, but they are not cooked so long, and so retain
more of the natural flavor of the fruit. This is a particularly nice way to preserve the small,
seedy fruits, which are to be used in puddings, cake, and frozen desserts.

Free the fruit from leaves, stems, and decayed portions. Peaches and plums should have the
skins and stones removed. Rub the fruit through a purée sieve. To each quart of the strained
fruit add a pint of sugar. Pack in sterilized jars. Put the covers loosely on the jars. Place
the jars on the rack in the boiler. Pour in enough cold water to come half way up the sides
of the jars. Heat gradually to the boiling point and boil thirty minutes, counting from the
time when the water begins to bubble.

Have some boiling sirup ready. As each jar is taken from the boiler put it in a pan of hot
water and fill up with the hot sirup. Seal at once.

FRUIT PRESERVED IN GRAPE JUICE.

Any kind of fruit can be preserved by this method, but it is particularly good for apples,
pears, and sweet plums. No sugar need be used in this process.

Boil 6 quarts of grape juice in an open preserving kettle, until it is reduced to 4 quarts.
Have the fruit washed and pared, and, if apples or pears, quartered and cored. Put the prepared
fruit in a preserving kettle and cover generously with the boiled grape juice. Boil gently
until the fruit is clear and tender, then put in sterilized jars.

BOILED CIDER.

When the apple crop is abundant and a large quantity of cider is made, the housekeeper will
find it to her advantage to put up a generous supply of boiled cider. Such cider greatly improves
mince-meat, and can be used at any time of the year to make cider apple sauce. It is also a
good selling article.

The cider for boiling must be perfectly fresh and sweet. Put it in a large, open preserving
kettle and boil until it is reduced one-half. Skim frequently while boiling. Do not have the
kettle more than two-thirds full.

Put in bottles or stone jugs.

CIDER APPLE SAUCE.

    5 quarts of boiled cider.
    8 quarts of pared, quartered, and cored sweet apples.

Put the fruit in a large preserving kettle and cover with the boiled cider. Cook slowly until
the apples are clear and tender. To prevent burning, place the kettle on an iron tripod or
ring. It will require from two to three hours to cook the apples. If you find it necessary
to stir the sauce be careful to break the apples as little as possible. When the sauce is cooked,
put in sterilized jars.

In the late spring, when cooking apples have lost much of their flavor and acidity, an appetizing
sauce may be made by stewing them with diluted boiled cider, using 1 cupful of cider to 3 of water.

CIDER PEAR SAUCE.

Cooking pears may be preserved in boiled cider the same as sweet apples. If one prefers the
sauce less sour, 1 pint of sugar may be added to each quart of boiled cider.

METHODS OF MAKING JELLY.

In no department of preserving does the housekeeper feel less sure of the result than in jelly
making. The rule that works perfectly one time fails another time. Why this is so the average
housekeeper does not know; so there is nearly always an element of uncertainty as to the result
of the work. These two questions are being constantly asked: "Why does not my jelly harden?"
"What causes my jelly to candy?"

It is an easy matter to say that there is something in the condition of the fruit, or that
the fruit juice and sugar were cooked too short or too long a time. These explanations are
often true; but they do not help the inquirer, since at other times just that proportion of
sugar and time of cooking have given perfect jelly. In the following pages an attempt is made
to give a clear explanation of the principles underlying the process of jelly making. It is
believed that the women who study this carefully will find the key to unvarying success in
this branch of preserving.

PECTIN, PECTOSE, PECTASE.

In all fruits, when ripe or nearly so, there is found pectin, a carbohydrate somewhat similar
in its properties to starch. It is because of this substance in the fruit juice that we are
able to make jelly. When equal quantities of sugar and fruit juice are combined and the mixture
is heated to the boiling point for a short time, the pectin in the fruit gelatinizes the mass.

It is important that the jelly maker should understand when this gelatinizing agent is at its
best. Pectose and pectase always exist in the unripe fruit. As the fruit ripens the pectase
acts upon the pectose, which is insoluble in water, converting it into pectin, which is soluble.
Pectin is at its best when the fruit is just ripe or a little before. If the juice ferments,
or the cooking of the jelly is continued too long, the pectin undergoes a change and loses
its power of gelatinizing. It is, therefore, of the greatest importance that the fruit should
be fresh, just ripe or a little underripe, and that the boiling of the sugar and juice should
not be continued too long.

Fruits vary as to the quantities of sugar, acid, pectin, and gums in their composition. Some
of the sour fruits contain more sugar than do some of the milder-flavored fruits. Currants,
for example, often contain four or five times as much sugar as the peach. The peach does not
contain so much free acid and it does contain a great deal of pectin bodies, which mask the
acid; hence, the comparative sweetness of the ripe fruit.

SELECTION AND HANDLING OF FRUIT FOR JELLY MAKING.

An acid fruit is the most suitable for jelly making, though in some of the acid fruits, the
strawberry, for example, the quantity of the jelly-making pectin is so small that it is difficult
to make jelly with this fruit. If, however, some currant juice be added to the strawberry juice
a pleasant jelly will be the result; yet, of course, the flavor of the strawberry will be modified.
Here is a list of the most desirable fruits for jelly making. The very best are given first:
Currant, crab apple, apple, quince, grape, blackberry, raspberry, peach.

Apples make a very mild jelly, and it may be flavored with fruits, flowers, or spices. If the
apples are acid it is not advisable to use any flavor.

Juicy fruits, such as currants, raspberries, etc., should not be gathered after a rain, for
they will have absorbed so much water as to make it difficult, without excessive boiling, to
get the juice to jelly.

If berries are sandy or dusty it will be necessary to wash them, but the work should be done
very quickly so that the fruit may not absorb much water. (See washing fruit, p. 13.)

Large fruits, such as apples, peaches, and pears, must be boiled in water until soft. The strained
liquid will contain the flavoring matter and pectin.

It requires more work and skill to make jellies from the fruits to which water must be added
than from the juicy fruits. If the juicy fruits are gathered at the proper time one may be
nearly sure that they contain the right proportion of water. If gathered after a rain the fruit
must be boiled a little longer that the superfluous water may pass off in steam.

In the case of the large fruits a fair estimate is 3 quarts of strained juice from 8 quarts
of fruit and about 4 quarts of water. If the quantity of juice is greater than this it should
be boiled down to 3 quarts.

Apples will always require 4 quarts of water to 8 quarts of fruit, but juicy peaches and plums
will require only 3 or 3½ quarts.

The jelly will be clearer and finer if the fruit is simmered gently and not stirred during
the cooking.

It is always best to strain the juice first through cheese cloth and without pressure. If the
cloth is double the juice will be quite clear. When a very clear jelly is desired the strained
juice should pass through a flannel or felt bag. The juice may be pressed from the fruit left
in the strainer and used in marmalade or for a second-quality jelly.

To make jelly that will not crystallize (candy) the right proportion of sugar must be added
to the fruit juice. If the fruit contains a high percentage of sugar, the quantity of added
sugar should be a little less than the quantity of fruit juice. That is to say, in a season
when there has been a great deal of heat and sunshine there will be more sugar in the fruit
than in a cold, wet season; consequently, 1 pint of currant juice will require but three-quarters
of a pint of sugar. But in a cold, wet season the pint of sugar for the pint of juice must
be measured generously.

Another cause of the jelly crystallizing is hard boiling. When the sirup boils so rapidly that
particles of it are thrown on the upper part of the sides of the preserving kettle they often
form crystals. If these crystals are stirred into the sirup they are apt to cause the mass
to crystallize in time.

The use of the sirup gauge and care not to boil the sirup too violently would do away with
all uncertainty in jelly making. The sirup gauge should register 25°, no matter what kind of
fruit is used. (See p. 15.)

Jellies should be covered closely and kept in a cool, dry, dark place.

CURRANT JELLY.

The simplest method of making currant jelly is perhaps the following: Free the currants from
leaves and large stems. Put them in the preserving kettle; crush a few with a wooden vegetable
masher or spoon; heat slowly, stirring frequently.

When the currants are hot, crush them with the vegetable masher. Put a hair sieve or strainer
over a large bowl; over this spread a double square of cheese cloth. Turn the crushed fruit
and juice into the cheese cloth, and let it drain as long as it drips, but do not use pressure.
To hasten the process take the corners of the straining cloth firmly in the hands and lift
from the sieve; move the contents by raising one side of the cloth and then the other. After
this put the cloth over another bowl. Twist the ends together and press out as much juice as
possible. This juice may be used to make a second quality of jelly.

The clear juice may be made into jelly at once, or it may be strained through a flannel bag.
In any case, the method of making the jelly is the same.

Measure the juice, and put it in a clean preserving kettle. For every pint of juice add a pint
of granulated sugar.

Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then place over the fire; watch closely, and when it boils
up draw it back and skim; put over the fire again, and boil and skim once more; boil and skim
a third time; then pour into hot glasses taken from the pan of water on the stove and set on
a board. Place the board near a sunny window in a room where there is no dust. It is a great
protection and advantage to have sheets of glass to lay on top of the tumblers. As soon as
the jelly is set cover by one of the three methods given. (See p. 29.)

To make very transparent currant jelly, heat, crush, and strain the currants as directed in
the simplest process. Put the strained juice in the flannel bag and let it drain through. Measure
the juice and sugar, pint for pint, and finish as directed above.

To make currant jelly by the cold process follow the first rule for jelly as far as dissolving
the sugar in the strained juice. Fill warm, sterilized glasses with this. Place the glasses
on a board and put the board by a sunny window. Cover with sheets of glass and keep by the
window until the jelly is set. The jelly will be more transparent if the juice is strained
through the flannel bag. Jelly made by the cold process is more delicate than that made by
boiling, but it does not keep quite so well.

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT JELLY.

Make the same as currant jelly, using half currants and half raspberries.

RASPBERRY JELLY.

Make the same as currant jelly.

BLACKBERRY JELLY.

Make the same as currant jelly.

STRAWBERRY JELLY.

To 10 quarts of strawberries add 2 quarts of currants and proceed as for currant jelly, but
boil fifteen minutes.

RIPE-GRAPE JELLY.

An acid grape is best for this jelly. The sweet, ripe grapes contain too much sugar. Half-ripe
fruit, or equal portions of nearly ripe and green grapes, will also be found satisfactory.
Wild grapes make delicious jelly. Make the same as currant jelly.

GREEN-GRAPE JELLY.

Make the same as apple jelly.

PLUM JELLY.

Use an underripe acid plum. Wash the fruit and remove the stems. Put into the preserving kettle
with 1 quart of water for each peck of fruit. Cook gently until the plums are boiled to pieces.
Strain the juice and proceed the same as for currant jelly.

APPLE JELLY.

Wash, stem, and wipe the apples, being careful to clean the blossom end thoroughly. Cut into
quarters and put into the preserving kettle. Barely cover with cold water (about 4 quarts of
water to 8 of apples) and cook gently until the apples are soft and clear. Strain the juice
and proceed as for currant jelly. There should be but 3 quarts of juice from 8 quarts of apples
and 4 of water.

Apples vary in the percentage of sugar and acid they contain. A fine-flavored acid apple should
be employed when possible. Apple jelly may be made at any time of the year, but winter apples
are best and should be used when in their prime, i. e., from the fall to December or January.
When it is found necessary to make apple jelly in the spring, add the juice of one lemon to
every pint of apple juice.

CIDER APPLE JELLY.

Make the same as plain apple jelly, but covering the apples with cider instead of water. The
cider must be fresh from the press.

CRAB-APPLE JELLY.

Make the same as plain apple jelly.

QUINCE JELLY.

Rub the quinces with a coarse crash towel; cut out the blossom end. Wash the fruit and pare
it and cut in quarters. Cut out the cores, putting them in a dish by themselves. Have a large
bowl half full of water; drop the perfect pieces of fruit into this bowl. Put the parings and
imperfect parts, cut very fine, into the preserving kettle. Add a quart of water to every 2
quarts of fruit and parings. Put on the fire and cook gently for two hours. Strain and finish
the same as apple jelly. The perfect fruit may be preserved or canned.

To make quince jelly of a second quality, when the parings and fruit are put on to cook put
the cores into another kettle and cover them generously with water and cook two hours. After
all the juice has been drained from the parings and fruit, put what remains into the preserving
kettle with the cores. Mix well and turn into the straining cloth. Press all the juice possible
from this mixture. Put the juice in the preserving kettle with a pint of sugar to a pint of
juice; boil ten minutes.

WILD FRUITS FOR JELLIES.

Wild raspberries, blackberries, barberries, grapes, and beach plums all make delicious jellies.
The frequent failures in making barberry jelly come from the fruit not being fresh or from
being overripe.

PREPARATION OF THE GLASSES FOR JELLY.

Sterilize the glasses; take from the boiling water and set them in a shallow baking pan in
which there is about 2 inches of boiling water.

COVERING JELLIES.

Jellies are so rich in sugar that they are protected from bacteria and yeasts, but they must
be covered carefully to protect them from mold spores and evaporation. The following methods
of covering jellies are all good:

Have disks of thick white paper the size of the top of the glass. When the jelly is set, brush
the top over with brandy or alcohol. Dip a disk of paper in the spirits and put it on the jelly.
If the glasses have covers, put them on. If there are no covers, cut disks of paper about half
an inch in diameter larger than the top of the glass. Beat together the white of one egg and
a tablespoonful of cold water. Wet the paper covers with this mixture and put over the glass,
pressing down the sides well to make them stick to the glass; or the covers may be dipped in
olive oil and be tied on the glasses, but they must be cut a little larger than when the white
of egg is used.

A thick coating of paraffin makes a good cover, but not quite so safe as the paper dipped in
brandy or alcohol, because the spirits destroy any mold spores that may happen to rest on the
jelly. If such spores are covered with the paraffin they may develop under it. However, the
paper wet with spirits could be put on first and the paraffin poured over it.

If paraffin is used, break it into pieces and put in a cup. Set the cup in a pan of warm water
on the back of the stove. In a few moments it will be melted enough to cover the jelly. Have
the coating about a fourth of an inch thick. In cooling the paraffin contracts, and if the
layer is very thin it will crack and leave a portion of the jelly exposed.

CANNED OR BOTTLED FRUIT JUICES.

Fruit juice is most desirable for drinking or for culinary purposes. Grape juice is particularly
good as a drink. It may be canned with or without sugar but, except where the grapes have a
large percentage of sugar, as is the case in California, some sugar should be added to the
juice in canning.

Currant juice may be sterilized and canned without sugar. This juice may be made into jelly
at any season of the year.

Fruit juices that are designed for use in frozen creams and water ices should be canned with
a generous amount of sugar.

For grape juice good bottles are to be preferred to fruit cans. If you can get the self-sealing
bottles, such as pop or beer comes in, the work of putting up grape juice will be light. If
bottles are employed, be very careful to sterilize both bottles and corks.

GRAPE JUICE.

Wash the grapes and pick from the stems. Put the fruit in the preserving kettle and crush slightly.
Heat slowly and boil gently for half an hour. Crush the fruit with a wooden spoon.

Put a sieve or colander over a large bowl and spread a square of cheese cloth over the sieve.
Turn the fruit and juice into the cheese cloth; drain well, then draw the edges of the cheese
cloth together and twist hard to press out all the juice possible.

Put the strained juice in a clean preserving kettle and on the fire. When it boils up, draw
back and skim. Let it boil up again and skim; then add the sugar and stir until dissolved.
Boil five minutes, skimming carefully. Fill hot sterilized jars or bottles. Put the jars or
bottles in a moderate oven for ten minutes, in pans of boiling water. Have some boiling juice
and pour a little of it into the jars as they are taken from the oven; then seal. Place on
boards and set aside out of a cold draft.

A good proportion of sugar and juice is 1 gill of sugar to a quart of juice. The preparation
and use of grape juice has been discussed at length in an earlier bulletin of this series.[a]

RASPBERRY, BLACKBERRY, STRAWBERRY, AND CURRANT JUICES.

With all these fruits except currants, proceed the same as for grape juice, but adding half
a pint of sugar to each quart of juice. Currants will require 1 pint of sugar to a quart of juice.

CHERRY, PLUM, AND PEACH JUICES.

To preserve the juice of cherries, plums, peaches, and similar fruits, proceed as for jelly,
but adding to each quart of juice half a pint of sugar instead of a quart as for jelly. If
it is not desired to have the fruit juice transparent, the pulp of the fruit may be pressed
to extract all the liquid.

FRUIT SIRUPS.

The only difference between sirups and juice is that in the sirup there must be at least half
as much sugar as fruit juice.

These sirups are used for flavoring ice creams and water ices. They also make a delicious drink,
when two or three spoonfuls are added to a glass of ice water.

RASPBERRY VINEGAR.

Put 4 quarts of raspberries in a bowl and pour over them 2 quarts of vinegar. Cover and set
in a cool place for two days. On the second day strain the vinegar through cheese cloth. Put
4 quarts of fresh raspberries in the bowl and pour over them the vinegar strained from the
first raspberries. Put in a cool place for two days, then strain. Put the strained juice in
a preserving kettle with 3 quarts of sugar. Heat slowly, and when the vinegar boils skim carefully.
Boil twenty minutes, then put in sterilized bottles.

About 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar to a glass of water makes a refreshing drink.

Similar vinegars may be made from blackberries and strawberries.

FOOTNOTES:

[a] U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bulletin No. 175.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following typographical errors were corrected:

p. 10: crackng to cracking (the cracking of jars)

p. 17: 22 to 18 (see p. 18)

p. 19: 17 to 13 (see p. 13)

p. 19: 14 to 10 (See fruit pricker, p. 10.)

p. 20: 18 to 14 (The data on page 14)

p. 21: 14 to 10 (see p. 10)

p. 25: 17 to 13 (See washing fruit, p. 13.)

p. 26: crytallize to crystallize (to crystallize in time)

p. 26: 19 to 15 (See p. 15.)

Irregularity in hyphenation (e.g. jelly-making vs. jelly making) and compound words (e.g. wash
boiler vs. washboiler) has not been corrected.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

